
                               1 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 700 words


Just what has happened, we asked, to the controversial £9,000 painting of Ian
Blair that disappeared from its rightful place alongside other past
commissioners of the Metropolitan police? Conspiracy theories about the missing
masterwork abound, heightened by the knowledge that Lord Blair was not much
loved when he was pushed aside by London mayor Boris Johnson. Was this the final
indignity? We promised to find out. And the answer from Scotland Yard is that
they have been forced to take the painting into protective custody. Vulnerable
to accidents or perhaps to the whims of the malicious, it needs a covering,
officials say. Thus, it will be missing for a few more weeks. But here's the
thing. While most of the portraits of commissioners, from Robert Peel to Lord
Blair's predecessor Lord Stevens, have glass coverings of different
descriptions, the portrait of Lord Condon, who stepped down in 2000 and survived
the turbulence of the Stephen Lawrence inquiry, has no apparent covering and yet
would appear to have survived the years unmarked and untroubled. But then, few
there speak ill of him.

The grim reaper arrives, meanwhile, and his name is Jeremy Hunt, the culture
secretary, whose libertarian instincts compel him to liberate his staff from
continuing employment. He gathered all the staff together at Westminster Central
Methodist Hall on Tuesday, as we disclosed. It wasn't much of a party. Seventy
of them to get the heave-ho by next April, from a total of 500, with more
falling to the axe in the following months, halving staff numbers by 2013. The
only saving grace for some is that they will be needed for the Olympics. Sir
Humphrey and the like will be the first to go, for they command the biggest
salaries, but underlings can expect to be scythed down later. Horror at every
turn. Whatever happened to the department of fun and games?

And as Labour's historic gathering draws to a close, the union barons are in
confident mood. No surprise then that, hearing of a huge workers' demonstration
in Belgium yesterday, activists were keen to leave the cocoon of Manchester and
support it. And they would have gone too. The shame is that they were prevented
from getting there by a strike at Brussels airport. Does no one care about
inconveniencing the public these days?

No blood affiliation to complicate things as members of Ukip seek to find
themselves a new leader, but still there is rivalry and tension. Favourite to
win is former leader Nigel Farage; but before he can rise again he must beat his
rival, the economist Professor Tim Congdon. Also vying for the post is David
Campbell Bannerman, whose great uncle was the Liberal prime minister. But those
who yearn for more character in our politics will root for the anti-federalist,
law-and-order solutions forwarded by the party's former London mayoral
candidate, Winston McKenzie. "I understand what it is like to lose your liberty.
It's what happened to me when I didn't pay my parking fine," he once told a
group of would-be voters. He lost on that occasion. And lost again in May when
he took on David Lammy; but that doesn't mean the former boxer is destined to
confront disappointment. Politics is timing. It just wasn't his time back then.

Though we shy away from intruding on private squabbles, there does appear to be
discord at the Lady magazine, whose publisher accuses the editor Rachel Johnson
of being preoccupied with sex as a way of increasing circulation. As if to
address this, the magazine this week turns its attention to politics. Jilly
Cooper gives her assessment. David or Ed? "I think Ed is much more attractive,"
says Jilly. What of the Tories? "I haven't met David Cameron but evidently he's
very very nice and he's very happily married and touched with tragedy so I would
say there is definite potential there. I think he should always have a sun tan,
though, and he ought to grow his hair a bit longer, because he needs Portuguese
curls, and he should definitely get a dog." Fancy a bit of chancellor, Jilly?
No. "He looks too tidy. A bit like a school prefect. He'd definitely fold his
clothes before he got into bed . . ." That went quite well. Next week, finance
and banking.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          September 30, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Dudley prepares for stage two of the great BP clean-up;
OUTLOOK

BYLINE: David Prosser

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 971 words


It is known in business as the "kitchen sink" strategy and for the new boss of a
company with problems, it is an attractive proposition. On day one in the job,
you dramatically announce you're chucking out everything that went before
(including the kitchen sink) under the discredited management, in favour of new
arrangements you will supervise personally. Goodbye tarnished brand, hello shiny
new image.

If only it were that simple for BP. Robert Dudley is clearly desperate to make
an early splash as he replaces Tony Hayward in the chief executive's office. His
announcement of a management shake-up yesterday - two days before he even takes
over - is the beginning of a campaign to put the Gulf of Mexico catastrophe
behind BP. Out goes the head of the exploration unit - another symbolic ousting
of someone in the chain of command above Macondo - and in comes an all-powerful
safety unit.

The new chief executive has two goals in mind. No doubt, he is utterly sincere
in his promise to improve BP's safety record, but we won't be in a position to
judge him on that pledge for years to come. The more pressing objective in the
short term is to placate BP's critics in the US, many of whom are still pressing
for potentially ruinous action against the company.

There may not be a great deal BP can do now to influence the various official
inquiries that, were they to find it guilty of gross negligence, threaten
potentially huge fines - it has already made its own submissions to such probes.
But Mr Dudley will hope to see some moderation in the tone of US legislators.
The House of Representatives has already cleared new health and safety laws that
would effectively bar BP from any further offshore drilling in American waters.
If the legislation were to make it onto the statute book - and those politicians
standing for re-election in November's mid-terms will be aware of the public
anger against BP - the new chief executive's task in restoring the company's
fortunes suddenly looks much larger.

Since BP finally capped Macondo earlier this month, sentiment around the company
has improved. The share price has bounced and it managed to get a large bond
issue away this week with no great difficulty. However, assuming that the
company is now in the clear would be a great mistake. Mr Dudley's pre-emptive
strike yesterday is an indicator of how much work he thinks BP has to do to get
itself out of this mess. He is not complacent and nor should shareholders be.

HSBC keeps us all guessing

Also hoping to put its troubles behind it is HSBC. After the public infighting
of last week, the bank's senior directors were all very gracious about each
other yesterday as they met up in Shanghai for the board meeting that had been
due to sign off on its management shake-up. Stuart Gulliver, HSBC's chief
executive in waiting, was in particularly conciliatory mood, softening his tone
on whether the bank might quit the UK.

Still, questions remain about what has gone on over the past week. If Michael
Geoghegan, the current chief executive, really never expected to become
chairman, why did he, or the bank, not say so amid all the speculation about
whether he would get the job? Who - and it was clearly someone very senior - was
responsible for the hugely damaging leaks, true or not, that so embarrassed HSBC
last week? And what now for John Thornton, who many believe signed up for a
non-executive directorship at the bank with the aim of becoming its chairman?

Europe's impossible dilemma

Let's hope Nigel Farage, the easily-enraged UK Independence Party MEP, was
sitting down yesterday when he heard about the European Commission's proposals
for whacking fines on profligate countries. The Commission wants the fines to
apply to all 27 European Union members - not simply members of the euro - and a
parallel review is being undertaken by the President of the European Council,
Herman Van Rompuy, who Mr Farage so memorably - and so rudely - insulted in a
European Parliament session this year.

Mr Farage's apoplexy at perceived threats to UK sovereignty notwithstanding, one
can see what both the Commission and Mr Van Rompuy's review are getting at. The
routine way in which many EU members have flouted the commitments they once made
about public debt - and all the big members breached the growth and stability
pact last year - has made a nonsense of the deal.

That has had serious ramifications for the euro, with Germany and others forced,
in order to save the single currency to ride, to the rescue of the most
seriously indebted nations earlier this year. And since all EU members have
signed up to the growth and stability pact, this is not an issue just for the
eurozone. It would be difficult to operate a system where only eurozone members
were penalised for transgressions, with the 11 EU nations outside of the euro,
including the UK, free to break their word without fear of punishment.

The bad news for those who favour penalties binding on all 27 EU countries is
that introducing such penalties would almost certainly require an amendment to
the Lisbon treaty - a treacherous path down which many member states would fear
to tread.

In truth, even getting agreement on these penalties from eurozone members is
going to be difficult. The French, in particular, appear to have some entirely
understandable reservations about the idea of giving Commission officials the
power to demand France pays a fine of 0.2 per cent of its GDP if it is judged to
have stepped out of line.

And yet. The eurozone crisis earlier this year made it clear that the existing
pact is hopelessly out of date. German voters will not countenance their
government continuing to implicitly guarantee the debts of irresponsible EU
members. Sanctions of one sort or another are going to be a necessary evil. Best
of luck with that Mr Van Rompuy.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Why did the Tories lose the election? You may be surprised;
Claims that the campaign was insufficiently Right-wing are wide of the mark,
argues Philip Cowley

BYLINE: Philip Cowley

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 841 words


Several months ago, I interviewed a senior member of the Conservative team about
the failures of its election campaign. He wondered whether I had failed to note
that we were having the conversation in Downing Street: surely it couldn't have
been that much of a disaster.

Yet there are few who honestly think the campaign an unalloyed success. In an
election in which the Labour vote fell by 6.5 per cent, the Conservative vote
went up by just 3.7 per cent. Overall, the party secured its fifth lowest share
of the vote since 1922.

As the months have passed, three main explanations have been offered. First,
that the TV debates derailed the campaign. Second, that it did not have a
coherent message. And third, that the Tories were not Right-wing enough. Of
these, one is partly right but frequently misunderstood, one is spot-on, and the
third is dangerously wrong.

There is no doubt that Cameron's team badly underestimated how important the
debates would be. After their first dress rehearsal - in which Jeremy Hunt,
playing Nick Clegg, deployed arguments almost identical to those the Lib Dem
leader would go on to use - Anita Dunn, one of the party's American advisers,
summed up their problem: "Well, I'm voting for Nick Clegg."

Yet despite this early warning, the campaign team did almost nothing in
response. "We weren't disciplined enough to work out what to do about it," one
of those involved admitted. As a result, David Cameron would go into the first
debate with no strategy for dealing with the Clegg problem.

Things were not helped by the fact that he began rehearsals later than either of
the other two leaders, and did not prepare rigorously enough. In the first
debate in Manchester, Cameron struggled to look straight down the camera, as
Clegg did, and as he had meant to. The problem was the politician's instinct to
work the room; unlike the Lib Dems, the Conservatives had not rehearsed enough
to repress it.

However, there are plenty at the centre of the campaign who argue that the
debates benefited the party: George Osborne points out that the relentless media
attention pushed policy discussion off the agenda, protecting the Tories from
"weeks of heavy Labour pounding over issues like tax credits", which had
derailed the campaigns of 2001 and 2005. Indeed, the party most frustrated by
the debates was Labour, whose strategists felt that they failed to land any
blows until the final, debate-free week.

More straightforward is the party's lack of any coherent election strategy. The
Conservative campaign involved a long-running argument between those who wanted
to remain positive about the Tory brand and those who felt that they should be
attacking the Government more. The former believed that the public had enough
reasons not to vote Labour; what they needed were reasons to vote Tory. The
latter wanted to keep their foot "on Gordon Brown's neck", as his record was the
biggest asset the Conservatives had.

Both approaches had their merits, but the problem was that there was no
agreement as to which to follow. The result was frequent confusion: witness the
repeated changes in the tone of Tory posters, alternating almost every time
between a positive and a negative message. Partly, this was because the campaign
was a tripartite operation, with George Osborne, Andy Coulson and Steve Hilton
all having their own views of the way ahead, and their own interests - the
economy, the news cycle, and the big picture. Some complained of a lack of clear
direction, as exercised by the Australian strategist Lynton Crosby in 2005, or
strong party chairmen in previous years.

Finally - and most importantly, in terms of the debate about the party's future
- there is the claim that the campaign was not Right-wing enough. Look at the
votes that leaked to Ukip, say some of those who wanted a more muscular
approach: it enjoyed the best ever performance by a fourth party.

It is here that critics of the Cameron approach are in danger of misreading the
public. For sure, Ukip cost the Tories votes. But minor parties are now part of
political life, and hurt the other parties as well.

Much more significantly, the party's own polling found a lingering distrust of
the Conservatives among the public. When those who had considered voting Tory
were asked why they had not eventually done so, the most common answers involved
concerns that the party was still for the rich rather than for ordinary people,
or about spending cuts and the removal of benefits such as tax credits.

The marginal constituencies where the Conservatives failed to break through, and
which they needed to win an overall majority, were those in Scotland or with
large numbers of ethnic minority voters or public-sector workers, or all three.
It is difficult to argue that the best way to appeal to them in future will be
to move the party back to the Right.

Philip Cowley is professor of parliamentary government at the University of
Nottingham, and author (with Dennis Kavanagh) of 'The British General Election
of 2010' (Palgrave), to be published tomorrow

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: No contest: Cameron and Clegg in one of the leaders' debates

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 29, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The price of being in the EU... £128 for every British household

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 341 words


THE average British household paid £440 to be a member of the European Union
last year but received only £312 back in direct benefits, according to Brussels
accounts published yesterday.

The £128 loss for every household is because Britain's share of the costs for
running the EU are not matched by returned cash, which comes in the form of farm
subsidies or social funds.

The lion's share of spending goes to continental farmers and poorer countries
such as Poland, the figures show.

Britain is the fifth highest contributor to the EU budget, with £6.7 billion,
beaten by France, Germany, Italy and Spain. Poland contributes £2.4billion. Each
Briton pays £110 in contributions to the EU but loses out by £32 in benefits in
return. Spain is the only one of the top five contributors where the return is
greater than the contribution. In Poland, every person contributes £63 and gains
£166 in return subsidies.

The EU's cost to Britons in 2009 was up by £266million, or £17.44 per household,
as bills for running the Union continued to increase due to the rising costs of
the new powers and institutions created by the Lisbon Treaty. Britain has also
been hit by a deal negotiated in 2005 by Tony Blair that has seen the value of
an annual rebate from the EU, won by Margaret Thatcher in 1984, fall
signifi-cantly over the past two years.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's European leader, argued that the EU "club" was not worth
belonging to when the cost of Brussels regulation was pushing up "membership
fees". "If you were paying a £440-a-year subscription to a health club, you
would expect to get fitter or you would leave," he said.

Because of Mr Blair's agreement to cut the rebate, in order to help new Eastern
European EU members, British payments are set to rise still further, reaching
£8.3billion late this year.

The bill could go even higher if the European Commission wins a battle over its
proposal to scrap Britain's annual rebate, which was first granted to offset
high British payments towards farm subsidies that are mostly paid to French
farmers.

LOAD-DATE: September 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    September 29, 2010 Wednesday 4:55 PM GMT

Labour will soon go back to what it does best: mudslinging

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1184 words


Anxious that I should not miss a moment of  thecoverage of Mr Miliband's speech
to his Party Conference I  settled down to watch my television 10 minutes early
and caught the tail end  of a programme about Longleat wild life park. I am glad
I did. There  was a splendid sequence of Kate Humble and a keeper coating a
rhino with  wonderfully sticky black mud, then engaging in a glorious outbreak
of  mud slinging at each other.Good quality passionate mudslinging. Just  what
Labour has always been so good at.Much more exciting than what  came next. No
mud slinging at all. In fact everyone was just so  niceabout almost everybody.

I  doubt it will ever be like that again. Ed Miliband will be lucky to  ever get
as much publicity again for a conference speech, unless he  becomes Prime
Minister. Let me be quite clear about that too. I do not  think either EdMili or
any of his colleagues are capable of winning  the next election, but of course
he could find himself in No 10 if the  Coalition should simply throw the
election away.

However, Milliband's speech today showed a  determination not to throw away his
chance of finding himself Prime  Minister of a Labour or aLibDemLab coalition
Government within five  years.

He was at pains not to offend  anyone, except bankers,the House of Lordsand
those of us who cannot  come to terms with the emotional incontinence and soul
baring which are  de rigueur these days. Ed Miliband made it plain he loved just
about  every body. His parents (who he could not resist referring to as Mum and
Dad) , his brother, Ed Balls, Andy Burnham, Diane Abbott, even Blair  and Brown.

He was in favour of anything  that Labour supporters liked and against anything
they didn't, but not  too much against nor too much for.

He was against piling up debts for future generations, but in favour of deficit
spending. He even had a kind word for cuts of the sort which Alastair Darling
had proposed, but not the sort that Mr Osborne  proposed. He even had kind words
for Ken Clarke's reluctance to punish  criminals and the nice side of Theresa
May and in a spirit of real  daring undertook to agree with the Government when
it was right and  disagree with it when it was wrong.

There were tricky issues for him. Immigration was one. Here he "understood" the
concern of Labour voters  (or more particularly non voters) and felt for them,
but immigration  for the right reasons was good and for bad reasons was bad. The
EU was  another tricky issue, so he saidnot a solitary word about it.

It was masterful. His core vote loved it. Lib Dems  would have liked it...
especially about the Iraq War which was bad,  although "stabilising Afghanistan"
is good. There was nothing much of substance for the Conservatives to  really
grab hold of. There were titbits for the Lib Dems, there was mood  music for
disenchanted Labour supporter and balm for the Party's wounds.

Ed Miliband's problems will come when his party  and the electors begin to ask
for something more substantial than misty  sunshine. The Conservatives problems
will come when Labourstretches  out its left wing, the centre ground moves left
and Mr Cameron has to  decide whether to move left to stay in the middle of the
middle ground.  As for the poor Lib Dems, well, they are being eroded from both
left and  right. But these are very early days. It  will be in the spring that
the local elections and the polls will tell  us a lot more than this year's
party conferences.

...

The main themes of  your comments on my blog looking at Michael Ashcroft's
analysis of why the Conservatives did not win a majority last May were about
immigration, the EU and the lack of clarity or distinctiveness in the Tory
campaign.

So not surprisingly they were on what I wrote about Ed Miliband on Saturday. I
think that what I have written today covers many of the points which were made.
Ithought that Fly in the sky went right to the point. All three party leaders
are now of the political class, bereft of experience of real life  outside the
Westminster village. Unusually I find myself in disagreement with Bersher about
the EdMili, (and slightly unnerved to have the support of Nike Homfrey) for the
reasons I explain above. Dickgreendoxon wondered if to regain lost Labour votes
EdMili might end immigration. Well we know now... not a chance, but as Raw said,
if Cameron pussyfoots on the issue he will lose too.

A number of you agreed with Assegai who does not buy into my belief that a party
has to look to  shore up its core vote. Where else, he asked, would it go. I
think the  answer to that is usually nowhere. It stays at home. That is why the
number of electors voting is so low. The point was put rather strongly  by
Immanual kent who declared me to be dated, bracketed me with Red Ken  and said I
wanted to retreat into a cold haven of core voters. Well, as  Party Chairman
from 1985 to 1987 I looked after our core voters and we  polled over three
million more votes than Mr Cameron. We argued a  Conservative case and ran a
Conservative government and both got out  our core vote and found new
supporters.Labour should have been stuffed,  said Jenny-tolwart. "How do we make
voters see sense," she asked. I  think the voters are asking: "How do we make
them (thepoliticians) see  sense?"

"Cameron did not have Clegg round his neck in May," argued Norto. No, and I did
not suggest he did. But he  will have him there in 2015. Markbarber  declared
that "Only old farts think the EU important." He should talk  to youngsters in
the sixth forms as I do and he might change his mind.

There was a long exchange between many of you on  immigration to which I would
add only that I think Greggf is wrong to  think that the BNP votes came from
disgruntled Tories. They mostly came  from Labour. Disgruntled Tories stayed at
home or voted UKIP. Why are we not more angry about the way electoral
boundaries favour Labour? And Stevelee of london was stunned that the Government
is not doing anything about it. Well, we are angry and there  is a Bill to put
it right in the Commons at present.

As to why we failed to win a majority at the  election I think most people
agreed with me that Hospitaller said the  Conservative brand was destroyed or,
as Harry said, he was left not  knowing what the Party stood for. Even the
candidates are now selected  by the political class, observed Ianbryan. And
Flyinthesky made a good  analysis concluding that all parties set out to be all
things to all  people. As Nick-brazil put it, Cameron failed his message was
blurred and  now the Government is more social democrat that Conservative.

Thank you all for your comments. There I must  leave it except to answer
Spearofdin who asked where I got the idea that  carers are paid 350 a week. The
answer is that I make out the pay cheques for those who look after my wife. Oh,
and to tell poor old Duckham that he really cannot keep saying it is all
Thatcher's fault. She was pushed out by Heseltine, Hurd and Howe 20 years ago
and we  have had 13 years of NuLab to put everything right since then.  Perhaps
he doesn't get the newspapers where he is.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 25, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mandelson is still pocketing £8,600 a month from EU

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 512 words


LORD MANDELSON is still paid £8,600 a month by the European Union, despite
leaving his Brussels post two years ago and earning hundreds of thousands in
royalties from his memoirs.

His "transitional allowance" of £103,465 a year, funded by the taxpayer, is set
at 50 per cent of his former salary as European trade commissioner, a stipend
paid at low rates of "community tax".

Despite being only 56 and highly employable, the Labour peer is entitled to
claim the allowance until October next year, three years after he left Brussels.

According to the House of Lords register of interests, dated Sept 20, the
allowance and royalties from his new Labour memoir, The Third Man, are his sole
sources of income. Serialisation rights for the book are said to have raised
£400,000.

He is also entitled to claim a £86.50 daily subsistence when he attends the
Lords.

"The aim of this system is to ease their return to the labour market, to
maintain their independence after their time as commissioner," said a Brussels
spokesman. "We want to help them so they don't have to jump on every job offer
on the way." The allowance only stops if Lord Mandelson gets a job at a salary
grade above his former Brussels rate of more than £205,000 a year.

Nigel Farage, the European leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Lord
Mandelson sits on his sleek backside and continues to sponge up over £100,000 in
euro dole. Why doesn't he do something useful for once and get a real job?" The
benefit, worth more than 30 times the Jobseeker's Allowance, is paid for three
years, six times longer than the full rate of unemployment benefit. It is paid
at reduced rates even if former commissioners get new jobs.

There is a growing European row over the payments after it emerged this week
that 17 former commissioners, including Lord Mandelson, were enjoying large
payouts even though many had taken up lucrative lobbying contracts, become MEPs
or were in receipt of book royalties.

Ellwood and Atfield, a recruitment consultancy in Brussels and London, said that
an individual of Lord Mandelson's calibre and reputation would have no problem
finding well-paid work with a salary close to the £2 million a year reportedly
earned by Tony Blair in his work with JP Morgan bank.

"I would think that a big global corporate would snap him up," said Ben Atfield,
a founder partner at the consultancy.

Lord Mandelson has been linked to a string of high-pro-file jobs, such as the
chairman of BP. Until the election in June, he continued to draw £80,000 or more
from the EU - the difference between his previous salary in Brussels and his pay
packet as business secretary, meaning that he earned more than Gordon Brown did
as prime minister.

Two former commissioners, Charlie McCreevy, now a Ryanair board member, and Joe
Borg, a Maltese politician who works for a PR consultancy, still collect more
than (EURO)11,000 (£9,370) a month from the EU.

Lord Mandelson's office was not available for comment yesterday.

"Why doesn't Mandelson do something useful for once and get a real job?" NIGEL
FARAGE, UKIP EUROPEAN LEADER

LOAD-DATE: September 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Mandelson is said to have been paid £400,000 in serialisation
rights for his new book
PAUL GROVER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           September 24, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

High Street Ken's Diary

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 702 words


Whatever the outcome of the Labour leadership contest, the first biography of
its winner will be called "Miliband", be published by Simon and Schuster, and be
written by Lance Price, Tony Blair's former adviser. "It will concentrate on the
new leader," Price told me. "But it's a family biography, so there'll be a lot
about the other brother, their dad and so on." Price worked with Miliband (D) in
Downing Street, but knew Miliband (E) as "the human face of the Brown camp". He
hasn't backed either man publicly, though he voted Miliband-Miliband. "But if
I'm going to be the biographer of the next leader, I don't think I should be his
cheerleader." Price is writing the book with Allegra Stratton, The Guardian's
political correspondent. What if Diane Abbott wins? "It gets pulped and we have
to start all over again."

The Northern Echo reports that members of UKIP's north-east branch were
investigated by trading standards after "punking" a regional arm of the European
Commission. Eurosceptic pranksters created a fake group, The Hartlepool and East
Durham European Language and Culture Club, and applied for one of a number of
£50 grants made available to community groups to help celebrate the non-fake
European Day of Languages. The grant was approved, but the joke was rumbled
before any cash changed hands.

"Through this hoax we have gained a modest victory over the EU machine," UKIPper
Dave Pascoe declared, "and managed to kick the malevolent EU monster in the
ankles." I called UKIP MEP Nigel Farage, presuming the party top brass would
disapprove of childish stunts. Not a bit of it. "I think it's top stuff," he
chuckled. "No doubt there are some po-faced types who wouldn't approve [moi?],
but I think it's very funny. And it helps to expose the nonsense of some of
where taxpayers' money tends to disappear."

Stephen Pound MP made his stand-up debut on Wednesday at London's Backstage
Comedy Club, accompanied by a BYO heckler - a member of his entourage known only
as "Benny". Headliner Paul Foot, for instance, suffered the dread interruption:
"Tell us a joke!" And, to the boos of the crowd, Benny approached the stage to
argue a point with Foot, refusing to answer the comic's enquiry as to his
occupation.

When Benny was eventually exposed as an off-duty policeman, who works the
Westminster beat, Foot's deflatory response was: "Laws enforced by you by day
protect you at night." Worst of all, Benny outed himself as a Jim Davidson fan.
"Nothing wrong with Jim Davidson", he mused loudly at the mention of the
not-exactly-right-on ex-Big Break presenter. Pound retorted in panto fashion,
"Oh, yes there is", perhaps sensing an opportune moment to distance himself from
the fellow.

Ought one to remain loyal to a chum, even after an offensive outburst? Jonathan
Ross and Russell Brand (Foot's erstwhile onstage partner) appear to think so.
Dip your pens in the green ink-well, letter-writers of Tunbridge Wells, for Ross
is to reunite with Brand on radio, the first time they've shared the air since
Sachsgate.

The show is part of the promotional tour for Brand's new memoir My Booky Wook 2:
This Time It's Personal.

Phoenix rises again

Clean-shaven and conversationally unimpaired, Joaquin Phoenix, pictured,
returned to The Late Show with David Letterman on Wednesday, 18 months after his
famous bearded encounter with the talkshow host, during filming for his and
Casey Affleck's "hoax" documentary, I'm Still Here. Explaining the thinking
behind his faux-retirement and pursuit of a fictitious hip-hop career, Phoenix
told Letterman: "We wanted to do a film that explored celebrity, and explored
the relationship between the media and the consumer and the celebrities
themselves ... something that would feel really authentic." Unfortunately for
Affleck, who went to the brink of bankruptcy self-funding the film, I'm Still
Here has made just $259,000 at the US box office. Asked by Letterman whether
he'd worried the stunt might jeopardise his own career, Phoenix replied: "I'm
not sure I have much of a career now." Word is he's been cast in Clint
Eastwood's hotly anticipated biopic of J Edgar Hoover, so presumably that was
just another of his strange jokes.

highstreetken@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 21, 2010 Tuesday

'Chemical nonsense': Leading scientists refute Lord Monckton's attack on climate
science

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 670 words

ABSTRACT

Nine 'profoundly wrong' claims made by Ukip deputy leader refuted by climate
experts in a document filed with US Congress

FULL TEXT

A coalition of leading climate scientists yesterday  to the US Congress refuting
an attack on climate science made earlier this year by the Ukip deputy leader,
Lord Christopher Monckton.

The detailed rebuttal addresses nine key scientific claims . It includes the
responses of 21 climate scientists who variously conclude that Monckton's
assertions are "very misleading", "profoundly wrong", "simply false", "chemical
nonsense", and "cannot be supported by climate physics".

Monckton, a former journalist and policy adviser to Margaret Thatcher, who has
been the deputy leader of the UK Independence party (Ukip) since June, was
invited by the Republican party to give evidence to the house select committee
on energy independence and global warming.

His testimony included claims that increasing ocean acidification is not due to
rising CO2 levels, that recent decades of warming were due to global brightening
as opposed to rising CO2 levels, and that there is nothing unusual about recent
rises in global temperatures. He concluded his testimony by stating that
anthropogenic climate change is a "non-problem" and that the correct policy
response was "to do nothing".

"For those without some familiarity with climate science, [Monckton's] testimony
may appear to have scientific validity," said yesterday's response to Monckton's
claims . "We have therefore undertaken the task of soliciting responses from
highly qualified climate scientists in each of the areas touched upon in
Monckton's testimony ... In all cases, Monckton's assertions are shown to be
without merit - they are based on a thorough misunderstanding of the science of
climate change."

In response to the document, Monckton today told the Guardian: "It is unlikely
that Congress will pay much attention to this. It displays a lamentable absence
of quantitative detail, and a pathetic reliance on fashionable but questionable
forecasting techniques that have long been compellingly contradicted by hard
data."

The rebuttal was organised over the summer by five scientists, including Prof
Michael Mann, the director of the Earth system science centre at Pennsylvania
State University, and John Abraham, the associate professor of engineering at
the University of St Thomas in Minnesota. Both scientists  over his various
claims about the veracity of climate science.

The document contains referenced responses from 21 leading climate scientists,
including James Hansen, the director of the Nasa Goddard Institute for Space
Studies, and David Easterling, the chief of the scientific services division at
the US National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration's National Climatic Data
Centre (NOAA).

The document, entitled , is the latest attempt by climate science community to
conduct a co-ordinated fight back against the barrage of attacks and criticism
it has endured since thousands of private email exchanges between leading
climatologists were .

Monckton has been among the most persistent and vociferous of critics, labelling
climate science as the "largest fraud of all time" and arguing that it is being
used to establish a "new world government". In May, when , Monckton . During his
congressional testimony in May, Monckton was mocked by a Democratic congressman
for claiming that he was a member of the House of Lords during a previous
committee hearing appearance in 2009. Last month, the clerk of the parliaments,
wrote to Monckton, a hereditary peer, .

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               September 19, 2010

Power: Renewable energy industry right on target - when the wind blows: Despite
reaching its 10% goal one gusty Monday, wind power is still facing opposition,
write Terry Macalister and Tim Webb

BYLINE: Terry Macalister and Tim Webb

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 936 words


It is fair to assume that the millions of viewers who tuned into EastEnders a
week last Monday did not simultaneously give thanks for the wonder of wind. But
it would have been right for them to applaud the spinning turbines which, we
were later told by the National Grid, were providing a record 10% of all the
electricity being used in Britain at the time.

The figure appeared to be a milestone. But it was followed by predictions that
only 10% of all wind capacity will be available for use when the UK needs it
most: in the depths of the coming winter. So which figure tells how close the UK
is to achieving its targets on renewable energy?

The contrasting numbers explain why supporters of wind power - who say it will
help combat climate change - and its opponents - who say it is an expensive and
inefficient technology - always find something to lock horns about. While
industry group RenewableUK will this week be celebrating the attainment of five
gigawatts of wind capacity, detractors at the UK Independence Party (Ukip) are
calling the claims a "tissue of lies".

The September record high for wind energy was reached because turbines were
spinning at full pelt in windy weather while demand was lower than normal and
other sources of power were not being used.

Critics argue that the unpredictability of wind turbines - which depend on the
weather at any given time in a particular location - is nigh-on impossible for
the grid to deal with. The grid says it assumes wind power is available at 30%
of total capacity on average, but potentially at as little as 10%.

The latter figure compares with availability assumptions of 90% for coal or gas
and even 100% for electricity provided through the interconnector link with
France. Grid figures for the past three months show wind providing 3,000
gigawatt hours of power, compared with 48,000 for gas, 49,000 for coal and
13,000 for nuclear. These numbers seem to show turbines providing the grid with
less than 3% of its power. However, it is thought that half of all wind farms
supply customers direct - circumventing the grid - so the overall number may be
nearer 6%.

This may seem low, but with a raft of new wind farms coming on stream - the
world's biggest offshore facility opens officially off the Isle of Thanet on
Thursday - capacity is growing fast. And when combined with new biomass plants
(which burn crops) and old hydro schemes (using dams) the UK is close to meeting
its 2010 target of generating 10% of electricity from green sources. The target
was set eight years ago by the Labour government, and deemed a dream by many.

As recently as 2007, the UK was still less than halfway to meeting the energy
target, and lagged behind most of Europe on renewable energy.

RenewableUK points out that despite continuing planning logjams and other
hindrances, an entire gigawatt of capacity - enough to supply a city the size of
Birmingham when the wind blows - was added last year. This is almost double the
capacity of all the wind farms in the UK in 2002, and almost a fifth of the
total current capacity, of 4.7 gigawatts. By the end of this month, another
gigawatt of projects will have been built so far this year, half of them
offshore.

Yet some remain implacably opposed to wind farms, particularly onshore ones.
Next month, Godfrey Bloom, a Ukip MEP, is organising a seminar in London titled
"Europe's Ill Wind - wind turbines and the tissue of lies". The party is opposed
to the European-wide targets on renewables and wants a halt to large onshore
wind farms and subsidies.

The 10% target is attainable not only because of the recent rapid addition of
wind capacity, but also because the recession has reduced overall demand.
Electricity consumption fell last year by 5%, mainly because of the downturn,
and experts at accountant Ernst & Young doubt whether the 2010 target could be
met if times were easier.

The challenge facing the industry and policymakers is the much tougher and
legally binding EU 2020 renewables target. In the UK this requires 15% of all
energy to come from renewable sources. Because this includes heating and
transport - which are harder to "green" - experts say about a third of all
electricity will have to be renewable to meet the target. Many energy executives
are openly sceptical about this.

The coalition government said it was encouraged by the 10% figure. A spokesman
for the Department of Energy and Climate Change said: "The pace at which
industry is getting wind turbines up and getting other projects moving is
encouraging, but there is still much more to do. The UK currently has the
third-lowest proportion of renewables out of 27 EU states and we are determined
that this improves."

That is just what Maria McCaffery, chief executive of RenewableUK, wants to hear
from a government that claims it will be the greenest yet, even though industry
critics are urging ministers to end the wind subsidy regime.

"Judging by these figures we are a hair's breadth from reaching our 2010
targets," she said, "mainly on the back of tremendous growth of wind energy. The
message to take away is twofold: the target-based approach works, and 2020
targets are achievable."

Ben Warren, energy expert at Ernst & Young, is more cautious: "It's not time to
rejoice quite yet: there is still some way to go to meet the 2020 targets. It
gets more difficult to add each extra gigawatt of generation due to site
availability and grid constraints."

Like EastEnders, the battle over the future of wind will go on and on.

Captions:

Wind turbines at the Kentish Flats generating facility off Whitstable, Kent.

Photograph by Chris Laurens/Alamy


LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                          September 18, 2010 Saturday

Britain - Charity defends boost for maternity leave

BYLINE: Will Stone, Health Reporter

LENGTH: 237 words


A childbirth charity hit back yesterday at rightwingers critical of plans to
extend maternity leave across Europe to 20 weeks on full pay.

The change to the EU's Pregnant Workers Directive was put on hold by MEPs in
March amid claims it would be an extra burden on British business if it became
law.

Now that the plans have been set in motion an "impact assessment" demanded by
Tory MEPs estimates it will cost the Treasury an extra £2.5 billion a year.

Current rules in Britain allow pregnant women a full year off with six weeks
paid at 90 per cent of the mother's average pay, followed by 33 weeks on
statutory maternity pay of £124.88 a week.

Employment Relations Minister Edward Davey said the amount of money the
government spends on maternity pay would double if the plans went ahead.

And Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom claimed it was "madness to introduce these new laws
at any time, but particularly now."

But National Childbirth Trust chief executive Belinda Phipps welcomed the
proposed new law.

She said: "It's absolutely right that those people, having had a baby, have the
ability to be able to choose to be at home with that baby for a period of time
that's going to enable them to feed a baby and build a relationship with a baby.

"Those babies form the population of the future, so we shouldn't be letting a
temporary financial crisis drive our policy on supporting new mothers," said Ms
Phipps.

willstone@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: September 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU maternity leave will cost £2.5bn;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 88 words


EU proposals to extend maternity leave to 20 weeks at full pay would cost
Britain £2.5billion a year.

MEPs will vote next month on amendments to "improve" existing EU proposals that
give mothers 18 weeks off, at a level of pay decided nationally.

An EU report found that the amendments would cost Britain £48billion over the
next 19 years, the highest costs of any EU country.

Godfrey Bloom, pictured, Ukip's MEP for Yorkshire and a member of the
parliament's women's committee, said: "This sort of thing will hammer small
business."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU maternity plan costs £2.5bn;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 74 words


EU proposals to extend maternity leave to 20 weeks at full pay would cost
Britain £2.5billion a year.

MEPs will vote next month on amendments to "improve" existing EU proposals that
give mothers 18 weeks off, at a level of pay decided nationally.

An EU report found the amendments would cost Britain £48billion over the next 19
years, the highest cost of any EU country.

Godfrey Bloom, a Ukip MEP, said: "This sort of thing will hammer small
business."

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 17, 2010 Friday

EU boost in maternity pay to cost taxpayers £2.5bn a year

BYLINE: Sarah O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 407 words


EUROPEAN plans to treble maternity pay would cost British taxpayers an
eye-watering £2.5billion a year.

MEPs are due to vote next month on giving mothers 20 weeks off work on full pay.

The move would leave both the Government and businesses facing a massive extra
burden - and could discourage bosses from employing women of child-bearing age.

At present, new mothers can take a full year off work, with six weeks paid at 90
per cent of their average earnings.

They then receive 33 weeks of taxpayer-funded maternity pay, currently £125 a
week. The remaining weeks are unpaid.

Struggling The controversial new law was put on hold in March amid demands by
British Tory MEPs to know the extra cost.

Now Brussels has put this at £101.636billion across Europe between now and 2030.

The UK would bear 47 per cent of this - about £2.5billion a year - because the
Government currently bears a small fraction of maternity costs compared to other
countries.

And business leaders fear that because of the recession, struggling companies
would be ordered to take over more of the burden from the Treasury.

Alistair Tebbit, of the Institute of Directors, said: "Ministers and UK MEPs
should fight this terrible proposal all the way. It is hard see how the
Government could afford this.

"There's therefore a major risk that the Government would look to force
employers to pick up all of the bill or part of it. This is the last thing firms
would need.

"There is also a wider question about whether it's desirable to create a large
new tax, in effect, on employing women. Such a move from Brussels is unlikely
improve the prospects of women in the workplace."

UK Independence Party MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "This will be the hammer blow that
could knock out many in the small business sector for good. There is no point in
maternity leave if there are no jobs to take that leave from."

The French also face a staggering bill of £40bn. But countries such as Germany
and Den mark will pay just £3.3bn because their current system allows mothers
shorter periods off work but on full salary.

Yesterday, Employment Relations Minister Edward Davey said: "Our own analysis
shows that this would cost us up to £2billion.

"We currently spend around £2billion a year on maternity pay - meaning the cost
would effectively double.

"We are lobbying hard to get the right deal for the UK, and I will continue to
flag my concerns to counterparts from other member states."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Edward Davey, lobbying for UK
New mothers will get a huge extra payout under EU plans

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 17, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU boost in maternity pay to cost taxpayers GBP 2.5bn a year

BYLINE: By Sarah O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 406  words


EUROPEAN plans to treble maternity pay would cost British taxpayers an
eye-watering GBP 2.5billion a year.

MEPs are due to vote next month on giving mothers 20 weeks off work on full pay.

The move would leave both the Government and businesses facing a massive extra
burden - and could discourage bosses from employing women of child-bearing age.

At present, new mothers can take a full year off work, with six weeks paid at 90
per cent of their average earnings.

They then receive 33 weeks of taxpayer-funded maternity pay, currently GBP 125 a
week. The remaining weeks are unpaid.

The controversial new law was put on hold in March amid demands by British Tory
MEPs to know the extra cost.

Now Brussels has put this at GBP 101.636billion across Europe between now and
2030.

The UK would bear 47 per cent of this - about GBP 2.5billion a ear - because the
Government currently bears a small fraction of maternity costs compared to other
countries.

And business leaders fear that because of the recession, struggling companies
would be ordered to take over more of the burden from the Treasury.

Alistair Tebbit, of the Institute of Directors, said: "Ministers and UK MEPs
should fight this terrible proposal all the way. It is hard see how the
Government could afford this.

"There's therefore a major risk that the Government would look to force
employers to pick up all of the bill or part of it. This is the last thing firms
would need.

"There is also a wider question about whether it's desirable to create a large
new tax, in effect, on employing women.

Such a move from Brussels is unlikely improve the prospects of women in the
workplace."

UK Independence Party MEP Godfrey Bloom said:

"This will be the hammer blow that could knock out many in the small business
sector for good. There is no point in maternity leave if there are no jobs to
take that leave from."

The French also face a staggering bill of GBP 40bn. But countries such as
Germany and Den mark will pay just GBP 3.3bn because their current system allows
mothers shorter periods off work but on full salary.

Yesterday, Employment Relations Minister Edward Davey said: "Our own analysis
shows that this would cost us up to GBP 2billion.

"We currently spend around GBP 2billion a year on maternity pay - meaning the
cost would effectively double.

"We are lobbying hard to get the right deal for the UK, and I will continue to
flag my concerns to counterparts from other member states."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Edward Davey, lobbying for UK
New mothers will get a huge extra payout under EU plans

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 17, 2010 Friday

Reply: Letter: Cardinal sin - or message of hope?

BYLINE: Claude Kauffmann

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 75 words


Cardinal Kasper may have been undiplomatic (Pope flies into row over aide's race
remarks, 16 September), but what he said about our multiculturalism is perfectly
true - and it should be a matter of pride for us all that, in spite of
extremists (BNP) and neurotics (Ukip) on the political scene, we have managed to
integrate the vast number of immigrants that found a home in this country. I
believe this is what he meant.

Claude Kauffmann

Guildford, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Terror alert at Eiffel Tower as France bans the burkha

BYLINE: Peter Allen

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 357 words


A TERROR alert led to the evacuation of the Eiffel Tower in Paris last night
within minutes of France adopting a burkha ban.

More than 25,000 people, including many Britons, were ordered to move away from
area around the city's top tourist attraction - which drew 6.6million visitors
last year - shortly after 8pm.

The alarm was raised after an anonymous call to the company that manages the
landmark, officials said.

A second tourist hotspot, the Saint-Michel Metro station near Notre Dame
Cathedral, was also evacuated following the bomb threat at the Eiffel Tower.

But Paris police could not confirm reports of a second bomb alert at the Saint-
Michel station.

The threats came just hours after the country's Parliament banned the wearing of
Islamic face coverings, including burkhas and niqabs, in public.

Al Qaeda had warned that it would strike if the ban went ahead.

A spokesman for the Eiffel Tower's management said: "We received an anonymous
call at 8.20pm saying a bomb was set to go off in the vicinity of the tower.

Specialist bomb disposal police and anti-terrorist officers arrived within
minutes and the whole area around the Champs de Mars was cleared by around 9pm.

"There were around 25,000 people affected, including thousands of visitors from
overseas."

By 10pm huge crowds were building up by the River Seine nearby, while special
brigade officers could be seen inspecting each floor of the Eiffel Tower.

Officers with sniffer dogs were carrying out widespread searches of the area
last night.

About 2,000 women from France's five million Muslim population wear full-face
veils in public.

But now men who force women to wear the burkha or niqab could be fined £24,000
or jailed for a year.

Women who defy the planned law face fines of up to £125 or being ordered to
attend citizenship classes.

The ban follows President Nicolas Sarkozy pledging to outlaw what he called the
"walking coffin" which is "not welcome" in France, and which he blamed for
causing social tensions. The law is due to come into effect next year.

Plans for a similar ban in Britain have been suggested by the UK Independence
Party and at least one Tory backbencher.

LOAD-DATE: September 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Security officers on watch around the Eiffel Tower last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Terror alert at Eiffel Tower as France bans the burkha

BYLINE: From Peter Allen in Paris

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 357  words


A TERROR alert led to the evacuation of the Eiffel Tower in Paris last night
within minutes of France adopting a burkha ban.

More than 25,000 people, including many Britons, were ordered to move away from
area around the city's top tourist attraction - which drew 6.6 lion visitors
last year - shortly after 8pm.

The alarm was raised after an anonymous call to the company that manages the
landmark, officials said.

A second tourist hotspot, the Saint-Michel Metro station near Notre Dame
Cathedral, was also evacuated following the bomb threat at the Eiffel Tower.

But Paris police could not confirm reports of a second bomb alert at the
SaintMichel station.

The threats came just hours after the country's Parliament banned the wearing of
Islamic face coverings, including burkhas and niqabs, in public.

Al Qaeda had warned that it would strike if the ban went ahead.

A spokesman for the Eiffel Tower's management said:

"We received an anonymous call at 8.20pm saying a bomb was set to go off in the
v icinity of the tower.

Specialist bomb disposal police and anti-terrorist officers arrived within
minutes and the whole area around the Champs de Mars was cleared by around 9pm.

"There were around 25,000 people affected, including thousands of visitors from
overseas."

By 10pm huge crowds were building up by the River Seine nearby, while special
brigade officers could be seen inspecting each floor of the Eiffel Tower.

Officers with sniffer dogs were carrying out widespread searches of the are last
night.

About 2,000 women from France's five million Muslim population wear full-face
veils in public.

But now men who force women to wear the burkha or niqab could be fined GBP
24,000 or jailed for a year.

Women who defy the planned law face fines of up to GBP 125 or being ordered to
attend citizenship classes.

The ban follows President Nicolas Sarkozy pledging to outlaw what he called the
"walking coffin" which is "not welcome" in France, and which he blamed for
causing social tensions.

The law is due to come into effect next year.

Plans for a similar ban in Britain have been suggested by the UK Independence
Party and at least one Tory backbencher.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Security officers on watch around the Eiffel Tower last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 676 words


Time to rid ourselves of a dishonest, incompetent government, they said. Then
they got elected. And so, it is fair to ask, what are the levels of towering
efficiency in this brave new world? Well, they seemed pretty pleased with the
Spending Challenge, the much-trumpeted initiative that allowed the people to
have a say on what functions should be cut and budgets shaved.

And so were we. And so was CND, until the Treasury and the Ministry of Defence
started dumping on the organisation boxes of postcards sent in by its supporters
urging the government to save a good few billion by scrapping Trident. And the
latest box itself merited close examination because inside were not just
troublemaking missives from CND supporters but also unopened items of mail -
Spending Challenge ideas sent in by ordinary members of the public. Filed away
and never to be seen again. And then there was one other item, an envelope with
a crest containing an anti-European Union cutting from the Daily Telegraph and a
personalised compliments slip in the name of Liam Fox, Britain's new defence
secretary. "I hope something will be done about this," the handwritten note
said. From the writing on the back, the envelope itself seemed destined for
"IDS" - fellow Eurosceptic Iain Duncan Smith. It never got there. But in a
perfect world, all Liam's correspondence would go via CND.

?And what of William Hague? Think I've knocked that one on the head, he said, of
the row about special adviser Christopher Myers, with whom he shared hotel rooms
while campaigning. And indeed it seemed that he had knocked it on the head. But
curses, up pops the wretched Telegraph on Monday with fresh claims that in July
last year, Hague personally paid for Myers to accompany him on a trip to Bosnia.
Myers, said the Conservative party during the height of the furore, had only
been an official government employee since the general election. No doubt that
is true. But it isn't quite the whole story. For a flick through parliamentary
documentation reveals that Hague's office arranged for Myers to receive a
coveted parliamentary pass as long ago as last October - many months before the
adviser took up a paid position. Records in the office of the parliamentary
commissioner for standards show Myers was one of six members of Hague's
parliamentary staff in October 2009. Not sure where that takes us, but it makes
an interesting story more interesting. And we're not sure that William has
knocked this one on the head just yet.

?High excitement in Manchester, meanwhile, as breathless types, sensing the
anxiety in yesterday's diary, call in with clear sightings at the TUC conference
of Richard Balfe, David Cameron's trade union envoy. A new Richard Balfe it
seems, somewhat critical of his supposed masters in government and decidedly
off-message. True to type, the Con-Dems will soon make his job redundant, but
still he is getting on with it, and even among the comrades, he has friends.
Yesterday the ex-Labour MEP stopped for a chat with a familiar face, and once he
was out of earshot, the official was heard to mutter: "I hate that bastard." But
thankfully such things are a rarity. Most people are glad to have him there as a
useful bridge.

?So Tony Blair received his Liberty medal in the United States amid much
adulation. But let us not forget others who work quietly, advancing the national
interest. Line Sophie Munk Olsen is not even English - she's Danish, and toils
for Ukip MEP the Earl of Dartmouth. But when she saw an EU flag being waved by a
reveller at the Last Night of the Proms, she did the only sensible thing and
stole it. "Blasphemy to bring it into the Royal Albert Hall," explained Line.
And so it was. Quite right.

?Finally not long to wait until Pope Benedict XVI arrives in Scotland, a
marvellous day for the Catholic church indeed. But not just the Catholic church.
It's a once in a lifetime event that believers and non-believers can be involved
in. So, when he lands, will he kiss the tarmac? It's 10-1 at Paddy Power. Hurry,
hurry.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          September 15, 2010 Wednesday

Election artist's photographs capture lonely life on the campaign trail

BYLINE: Maev Kennedyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 756 words

ABSTRACT

After 5,000 miles on the road in a camper van, Simon Roberts recalls 'fantastic
experience' as photographs go on show

FULL TEXT

From his lofty perch on the roof of a camper van, parliament's official  looked
down on two voters in their immaculate Luton front garden gazing worshipfully at
Esther Rantzen; on crowded streets in Westminster and Wales; on the only place
in Belfast where loyalist and nationalist posters hung side by side; and on a
scrum of reporters and camera crews pleading to share his roof as the melee of
Duffygate broke out in Rochdale.

But mostly Simon Roberts captured curiously lonely political figures desperate
to hunt down voters, sprinting along deserted streets, hammering on closed doors
and roaming desolate shopping malls.

He photographed the former home secretary Jacqui Smith, one of the most
prominent victims of the expenses scandal, as a lone figure in a bleak Redditch
schoolyard, on her way to losing her seat. "She seemed very isolated, as if she
had already been abandoned by her party," he recalled.

UKIP's Nigel Farage appears to have trapped some voters on a bench in
Buckingham, hemming them in with party workers and subjecting them to a full-on
political harangue. In fact they were all party workers, receiving a
pre-canvassing pep talk. Farage was days away from the plane crash that was one
of the most bizarre episodes in the election.

"I wanted to capture the landscape of the election, not just the people - and
the unfortunate truth is that in England that is going to take you to some
pretty bleak places," Roberts said.

He was struck by Nadhim Zahawi, a successful Conservative candidate, working a
street of immaculately bland new houses: they are on the edge of
Stratford-upon-Avon, but for all the evidence of human life they could be on the
moon. He also admired the dauntless slog that another Tory, Hamira Khan, put
into a hopeless seat in Glasgow East.

Usually he just recorded whatever he found when he got where he was going, but
occasionally he knew in advance the shot he wanted: the Lib Dem Ian Swales, who
took Redcar from Labour with one of the biggest swings in the country, with the
giant mothballed Corus steel plant in the background; or David Cameron on
polling day with a Lib Dem poster in shot.

Now that the images taken with his huge plate camera have been developed,
printed, framed, formally handed over to become part of the parliamentary art
collection and about to open as an exhibition in Portcullis House, opposite Big
Ben - open to the MPs today, and  as part of the London Open House architecture
event - Roberts can finally relax.

The idea of parliament appointing an official artist to cover general elections
dates from 2001, when Jonathan Yeo, son of the Tory MP Tim Yeo, created a triple
image of the party leaders Tony Blair, William Hague and Charles Kennedy, with
the size of each portrait based on their share of the vote.

The most controversial was David Godbold in 2005, who claimed that Labour
figures including the then Speaker Michael Martin had applied "sinister"
pressure to change his work - which used religious imagery to make points about
the Iraq war and broken manifesto promises.

Roberts was the first photographer chosen for the role, from a panel of 12 young
photographers nominated by experts including the V&A and the Photographer's
Gallery.

When he returned home after 5,000 miles travelling, sleeping and working in the
camper van, all he wanted was a shave, a bath and a night in a proper bed. It's
taken until now for him to work out that he enjoyed the experience immensely.

"Because it took me so long to get anywhere, and so long to set up my shots, I
was worried I'd always be in the wrong place at the wrong time, and I'd get
nothing. But it was a fantastic experience to be part of such a huge political
event," he said.

"My other real worry was that it would be, as people predicted, the Twitter
election, conducted entirely behind doors through television and other media -
but that wasn't true either. Because of the expenses scandal the politicians had
to get out and face the people, and work for every vote.

"The public really engaged with it, they sent me over 1,700 images, and they're
all going into the exhibition too. In some cases you can see those happening -
when I photographed Gordon Brown in Rochdale, you can see people taking
photographs of the scene on their mobile phones, and those images then got sent
to me and have gone into the project as well."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Climate 'communism';
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 195 words


SIR - How very amusing to see Lord Monckton, the deputy leader of Ukip, accuse
the Prince of Wales of "partisan pusillanimity" (Letters, September 13). Last
October, Lord Monckton told an American audience that a proposed treaty on
climate change was an attempt "to impose a communist world government on the
world".

It is apparent that the leadership of some parties from the fringes of the
political spectrum believe that climate change was invented by the extreme Left.
Such a view is only possible by closing one's eyes to the overwhelming
scientific evidence that the Earth is warming primarily due to the increasing
concentrations of greenhouse gases.

Lord Monckton's entertaining theory that global warming has now stopped is sadly
not supported by the evidence.

It is right that the public should hear a range of voices about climate change,
including those who wish to reject the overwhelming scientific evidence. But I
do not think that the public will accept that the deputy leader of a political
party has a right to tell the heir to the throne to stay silent because he
accepts this evidence.

Bob Ward

Grantham Research Institute London School of Economics London WC2

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Britain needs to pull out of the EU say 47% of voters

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 486 words


neARlY half of British voters want the country to quit the european Union, a
shock opinion poll revealed last night.

A Yougov survey found that 47 per cent of adults would vote in favour of the UK
withdrawing from the eU if a referendum on the issue were held.

only a third of those quizzed for the poll said they would vote for Britain to
remain within the 27-nation group.

last night, eurosceptics seized on the poll as evidence of growing
disenchantment with Britain's eU membership.

Paul nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: "These poll results
just tell us what anybody with eyes to see or ears to hear has known for ages,
the people want out of the eU.

"Britain needs a referendum on continued eU membership, not some makeweight
promise from the government.

"The fact that in every part of the country there is a majority for leaving says
it all."

The Yougov poll showed that a majority of voters aged over 40 want Britain to
quit the eU.

Fifty-two per cent of voters aged between 40 and 59 backed withdrawal, and among
the over-60s the figure rose to 57 per cent.

There was significant support for quitting the eU among supporters of all three
mainstream political parties.

A total of 63 per cent of Tory voters wanted Britain to quit the eU, with 37 per
cent of labour voters in favour of the move.

The big surprise was that 33 per cent of the lib Dem supporters quizzed said
they would vote against eU membership in a referendum.

The poll result was published last night as ministers released details of a
proposed new "referendum lock" law which is designed to stop any further power
being handed over to Brussels.

The move would mean that no British prime minister would be able to sign a
treaty with Brussels that altered the country's constitution unless the move had
first won the approval of voters in a referendum.

The aim is to prevent a repeat of the lisbon Treaty fiasco which saw gordon
Brown give the eU sweeping powers to meddle in UK affairs.

But last night euro-sceptics critics were quick to brand the measure
"worthless".

Senior Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "This 'lock' is worthless, and
ministers must know it.

"Under the lisbon Treaty the eU doesn't need any more treaties to give itself
more powers." europe Minister David lidington, announcing details of the
socalled "referendum lock", said: "The coalition agreement contains a clear
commitment that this government will not join, or prepare to join, the euro in
this Parliament; nor will this government agree to the UK's participation in the
establishment of any european Public Prosecutor.

"Furthermore, this government will ensure any future proposal to do either of
these will require a referendum of the British people.

"In addition, any proposal which would mean the UK giving up its border
controls, or any proposal to adopt a common eU defence policy, would also
require a referendum before the government could agree."

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britain needs to pull out of the EU say 47% of voters

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 485  words


NEARLY half of British voters want the country to quit the European Union, a
shock opinion poll revealed last night.

A YouGov survey found that 47 per cent of adults would vote in favour of the UK
withdrawing from the EU if a referendum on the issue were held.

Only a third of those quizzed for the poll said they would vote for Britain to
remain within the 27-nation group.

Last night, Eurosceptics seized on the poll as evidence of growing
disenchantment with Britain's EU membership.

Paul Nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said:

"These poll results just tell us what anybody with eyes to see or ears to hear
has known for ages, the people want out of the EU.

"Britain needs a referendum on continued EU membership, not some makeweight
promise from the Government.

"The fact that in every part of the country there is a majority for leaving says
it all."

The YouGov poll showed that a majority of voters aged over 40 want Britain to
quit the EU.

Fifty-two per cent of voters aged between 40 and 59 backed withdrawal, and among
the over60s the figure rose to 57 per cent.

There was significant support for quitting the EU among supporters of all three
mainstream political parties.

A total of 63 per cent of Tory voters wanted Britain to quit the EU, with 37 per
cent of Labour voters in favour of the move.

The big surprise was that 33 per cent of the Lib Dem supporters quizzed said
they would vote against EU membership in a referendum.

The poll result was published last night as ministers released details of a
proposed new "referendum lock" law which is designed to stop any further power
being handed over to Brussels.

The move would mean that no British prime minister would be able to sign a
treaty with Brussels that altered the country's constitution unless the move had
first won the approval of voters in a referendum.

The aim is to prevent a repeat of the Lisbon Treaty fiasco which saw Gordon
Brown give the EU sweeping powers to meddle in UK affairs.

But last night Euro-sceptics critics were quick to brand the measure
"worthless".

Senior Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "This 'lock' is worthless, and
ministers must know it.

"Under the Lisbon Treaty the EU doesn't need any more treaties to give itself
more powers."

Europe Minister David Lidington, announcing details of the socalled "referendum
lock", said:

"The coalition agreement contains a clear commitment that this Government will
not join, or prepare to join, the Euro in this Parliament; nor will this
Government agree to the UK's participation in the establishment of any European
Public Prosecutor.

"Furthermore, this Government will ensure any future proposal to do either of
these will require a referendum of the British people.

"In addition, any proposal which would mean the UK giving up its border
controls, or any proposal to adopt a common EU defence policy, would also
require a referendum before the Government could agree."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

47% of voters want Britain to pull out of the EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 386  words


NEARLY half of British voters want the country to quit the European Union, a
shock opinion poll revealed last night.

A YouGov survey found that 47 per cent of adults would vote in favour of the UK
withdrawing from the EU if a referendum on the issue were held.

Only a third of those quizzed for the poll said they would vote for Britain to
remain within the 27-nation group.

Last night, Eurosceptics seized on the poll as evidence of growing
disenchantment with Britain's EU membership.

Paul Nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said:

"These poll results just tell us what anybody with eyes to see or ears to hear
has known for ages, the people want out of the EU.

"Britain needs a referendum on continued EU membership, not some makeweight
promise from the Government. The fact that in every part of the country there is
a majority for leaving says it all."

The YouGov poll showed that a majority of voters aged over 40 want Britain to
quit the EU.

Fifty-two per cent of voters aged between 40 and 59 backed withdrawal, and among
the over60s the figure rose to 57 per cent.

There was significant support for quitting the EU among supporters of all three
mainstream political parties.

A total of 63 per cent of Tory voters wanted Britain to quit the EU, with 37 per
cent of Labour voters in favour of the move.

The big surprise was that 33 per cent of the Lib Dem supporters quizzed said
they would vote against EU membership in a referendum.

The poll result was published last night as ministers released details of a
proposed new "referendum lock" law which is designed to stop any further power
being handed over to Brussels.

The move would mean that no British prime minister would be able to sign a
treaty with Brussels that altered the country's constitution unless the move had
first won the approval of voters in a referendum.

The aim is to prevent a repeat of the Lisbon Treaty fiasco which saw Gordon
Brown give the EU sweeping powers to meddle in UK affairs.

Europe Minister David Lidington, said it amounted to "a clear commitment" not to
join the Euro, set up a European Public Prosecutor, give up border controls, or
adopt a common EU defence policy, unless the plans were agreed in a referendum.

But last night Euro-sceptic Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "It is
worthless, and ministers must know it."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           September 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

TO THE POINT;
YOUR LETTERS

BYLINE: FIONA PARKER

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 155 words


AS a postman, there is no political mandate for selling off Royal Mail.

The public do not want it and small businesses do not want it.

Let's tell this ConDem Government: Royal Mail is not for sale.

Shaun Shute Gloucester

THE method of electing the leader of the Labour party highlights a problem we
will face if we ever have a referendum.

Electors are asked to place the five candidates in order of preference. If there
is no outright winner the least favoured candidate is eliminated and his/her
second preference votes redistributed. If this happened in a general election it
would mean that second preference votes of parties such as the BNP and Ukip
would be taken before those of the main contenders.

We need to change the first past the post system but not to one equally flawed.

Derek E Mann Colne, Lancs

If you'd like a mention for one of your friends or relatives, write or email to
Readers' Birthdays at the address below. 3Coleen

LOAD-DATE: September 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 14, 2010 Tuesday 9:20 PM GMT

The European Arrest Warrant and the modern Anti-Dreyfusards

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1134 words


It could happen to absolutely anyone: that's the scary thing. When you read
about Britons unfairly detained in foreign prisons, you rarely imagine yourself
in their place; there's usually a bit of you thinking, "I wouldn't have joined a
protest march in a tinpot dictatorship" or "I wouldn't have gone for a drink
with a drug smuggler" or "I wouldn't have been in North Korea in the first
place" or "I wouldn't have hacked into the Pentagon computer system".

You would have no such consolation in the case of Andrew Symeou, a young man
from Enfield who has lost three years of his life because of what looks like a
straightforward case of mistaken identity. Andrew is in Greece, still waiting
for his trial on manslaughter charges, although the only evidence against him
rests on suspiciously worded witness statements which have since been retracted
or contradicted. As poor Lady Macduff protests: "Why then, alas, do I put up
that womanly defence, to say that I have done no harm?"

Few journalists or politicians have shown much interest in the case - and I am
as much at fault as anyone, having blogged about Andrew a couple of times during
his extradition hearing and then moved on. But there are honourable exceptions.
Andrew's local UKIP MEP, Gerard Batten, took up his case with enthusiasm. So, to
her credit, did the Lib Dem Sarah Ludford who, although a big supporter of the
harmonisation of criminal justice at EU level, now accepts that there must be
changes. But, until Andrew Gilligan's first-rate piece in The Sunday Telegraph a
couple of weeks ago, the travesty had been largely overlooked. While Gary
McKinnon, the UFO-hunter who hacked into a US military computer system, became a
household name, Andrew Symeou was left, forgotten, in a Greek prison.

After eleven months, Andrew was eventually bailed - on grounds that, through no
fault of his, his trial date had been deferred again. But he is not allowed to
leave Athens, where I visited him a week ago.

It is terrifying to observe how a man's life can be wrecked by the bungling of a
state agency. Three years ago, Andrew was a typical teenager celebrating his
A-level results. Today, as his friends graduate, he is still awaiting trial far
from home. Nor is it just Andrew who has suffered. His parents have been unable
to concentrate on running their business, and have exhausted their savings
visiting him. Worse, they have had to watch as their son, who had never been in
trouble with the law, was locked up with rapists and murderers. All because of
what is almost certainly a mistaken accusation that will be dismissed as soon as
the trial opens. Unlike some of my constituents who have found themselves in
trouble abroad, Andrew's objective is not to avoid trial, but to get to court as
quickly as possible so that he can resume his life. Three years after the
original incident, he is still waiting. So is the stricken family of the young
man who died: they, too, are no closer to an answer.

I recounted Andrew's story in The Guardianyesterday: this, after all, is
precisely the kind of miscarriage of justice that that newspaper often takes up.
Fair Trials International, who have been very supportive, say that the European
Arrest Warrant under which Andrew was seized is more objectionable on civil
liberties grounds than the UK-US extradition treaty under which Gary McKinnon is
being pursued.

Why then, I asked in The Guardian, was there such asymmetry in the attention
devoted to the two cases? Could it be because those who backed the EAW - whether
on grounds that anything labelled an "anti-terrorism measure" should be
supported, or on grounds that European integration is a good thing in itself -
were averting their gaze from an inconvenient case?

I'm, sorry to say that the comment thread soon vindicated my suspicion. Some
readers were sympathetic, of course; and some, although pro-EU and anti-Hannan,
accepted that it would be wrong to abandon an innocent man rather than admit
that the EAW had been a mistake. But many more were furious because the case
might discredit European integration. Here is a selection of their remarks:

Good god! A BRITISH citizen! A FOREIGN justice system! The horror, the horror!

That had nothing useful to do with Symeou's case. Its blatant political
grandstanding. You're a disgraceful opportunist, using this man's bad fortune to
publicise your political agenda. You're a disgrace, and you should be ashamed.

I don't know nothing about the Greek system other than from the hysterics of
rightwing Eurosceptics, which if you excuse me, do not take very seriously

Attack the EU if you like Hannah but don't hide behind a young man's unfortunate
plight. If you are so concerned about rough justice, there are plenty of
obviously innocent people in Britain's prisons for which you could more severely
reprimand the British justice system than the EAW.

How dare anyone who lives south of Bordeaux accuse an Englishman. ? You cannot
trust any of them.

This defending of a Brit against Europeans has nothing to do with defending a
Brit against Europeans but a political ploy to attack EU intergration.

You couldn't care less about the man in this story - for you it's just an
opportunity to self-aggrandise, utterly loathsome and repellent.

It seems equally repulsive to use this young man's dilemma to attack the EU. If
the Guardian is going to report what might be an important case, can it do with
someone less extreme and odious than Hannan?

In fact, for once, I wasn't attacking the EU. There is a strong case to be made
against the EAW, and I have made it on several occasions; but my aim in this
instance is to help someone who is going through a monstrous experience.

Does the EAW "discredit" European integration? Perhaps in the sense that the
poll tax discredited Margaret Thatcher, or the Iraq war discredited Tony Blair,
or the Ukrainian famine discredited Stalin. A simple recapitulation of the facts
can sometimes be unflattering.

I'm afraid that some (by no means all) Euro-integrationists are evincing a
terrifying readiness to abandon an innocent young man rather than re-examine
their prejudices, thereby unconsciously confirming my description of them as
contemporary Anti-Dreyfusards.

If Euro-enthusiasts want to avoid criticism of their pet project, they would be
better advised to join me in urging the Home Office and the Greek justice
ministry to expedite Andrew's trial. Then, at our leisure, we can get around to
a fuller debate about the merits of the EAW.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 13, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Royal views on climate;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 124 words


SIR - The Prince of Wales (report, September 11) says that scientists who
question the extent of our climatic influence believe the carbon dioxide "just
disappears through holes" into space. Such partisan pusillanimity does not befit
a prince.

He says he knows of no natural cause for recent global warming. A natural
reduction in global cloud cover let more sunlight through, and caused most of
the warming, from 1983-2001. There has been none since. Finally, he advocates a
"precautionary approach". Yet who should pay the cost of this, which is vastly
disproportionate to the risk? If he wants to speak further on global warming,
let him renounce his claim on the throne first.

Lord Monckton of Brenchley

Deputy leader, Ukip Rannoch, Perthshire

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 13, 2010 Monday

G2: Pass notes No 2,844 Conference season

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 305 words


Age: As old as the yawn.

Appearance: Last Night of the Proms, with added police.

You don't mean it's started? It has.

But I forgot to book any time off work. Which conference did you want to go to?
Or were you planning on

sitting at home following them all on 5 Live?

I was going to Phuket, as I always do. I don't want to turn on the television
and see some plonker banging on about electoral reform. And if I must, I want
men in uniform trying to blow his head off. Politics is more exciting abroad,
isn't it?

You're absolutely positive that it has begun? Ukip were in Torquay more than a
week ago.

That doesn't count. They haven't even got an MP. And they're crackers. But the
Greens are just wrapping up in

Birmingham, and they do.

What about any groups that couldn't meet in a decent-sized church hall? Remember
the unions? The TUC's annual congress starts in Manchester today. After that,
it's the Liberal

Democrats' conference in Liverpool, the Monster Raving Loonies in the Hampshire
town of Fleet, Labour in Manchester again, and the Tories in Birmingham.

This must have been what it was like in the blitz. Wave after wave after wave .
. . There's only another three and a bit weeks to go. They'll be back at
Westminster before you know it.

If I can't find a surgeon to sew up my eyes and ears, which of these bashes will
be the least painful? Your best

bet is the Lib Dems, where "Cutter" Clegg is expected to get a hard time, or
Labour, where the freshly elected leader will make his big speech. Gordon Brown
has promised to welcome him by parachuting from the ceiling with a red rose
between his teeth.

At last, some genuine showbiz. Just ruffling your rosette. If he does turn up,
he'll make a dull speech too.

Do say: "It's all about pressing the flesh."

Don't say: "I'm in Room 147. Want to come up and help me polish my manifesto?"

LOAD-DATE: September 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 12, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A SNAP ELECTION;
From Duffy-gate to the demise of Captain Beany: Simon Roberts, official artist
of the 2010 general election, shot it all.

BYLINE: Nigel Farndale

SECTION: SEVEN;FEATURES; Pg. 12,13,14,15

LENGTH: 1290 words


When I met Simon Roberts, in the sleepy Oxfordshire village of Spelsbury at
7.30am, I didn't shake hands. This was on account of his being several feet
above me on the roof of the motorhome he had been living in for the past four
weeks. He was standing behind a 5x4 plate camera, which was mounted on a tripod.
Around his neck was a viewfinder on a cord. This is how the nation's political
leaders had come to recognise him, for Roberts was the official election artist
for the 2010 general election and when I met him, on May 6, it was meant to be
his last day in the job.

He was in Spelsbury because this was where David Cameron and his wife, Samantha,
were due to cast their vote at 8am. He had arrived the night before to ensure
the best position for his motorhome - nearly all the images he caught of the
election were taken from its roof. Inside it was a map of the country covered
with yellow Post-it notes, evidence of his own campaign. He and his assistant,
Dan, had covered 5,000 miles travelling up and down the country.

Roberts, 36, had done this before, spending much of 2007 and 2008 roaming the
land for his acclaimed book We English, a witty, elegiac look at his fellow
countrymen at play that clearly caught the eye of the Speaker's Advisory
Committee on Works of Art.

There have been two previous election commissions, Roberts explained when I met
him again at his Brighton home last month. There was Jonathan Yeo's Proportional
Representation, a series of three portraits of the party leaders painted for the
2001 general election, and David Godbold's Forwards, Not Backwards, a series of
18 drawings made for the 2005 general election. This was the first time
photography had been selected as the medium.

An exhibition of Roberts's work will go on display at Portcullis House,
Westminster, next week. His theme is the relationship between politicians and
voters, and there is one image for each day of the election campaign, 25 in
total. Actually, the 25th came after the election, because it shows the scene
outside Lib Dem headquarters at the height of negotiations regarding the
coalition. The 'relationship between politicians and voters' was proving
dysfunctional by this stage.

Some of his most arresting images were taken when he was with independents such
as Esther Rantzen and Captain Beany. But his most memorable encounter, he says,
was with Peter Mandelson in Blackpool. His unusual camera intrigued Mandelson
and as his lordship inspected it, other photographers started photographing
them.

Although Roberts wanted to give a behind-the-scenes account of the election,
rather than concentrating on the 'big beasts' and their staged events, he did
find himself in the right place at the right time on several occasions. He had a
ringside seat for Duffy-gate, for example, and was there for the leaders' debate
that started Cleggmania. He was also in the pub with Nigel Farage the night
before the Ukip leader was in a plane crash.

'Covering Farage's campaign was funny,' Roberts recalls,'because I was watching
the various candidates just missing each other - Bercow went into a pie shop
while Farage came out of a pub. It was a bit like a Two Ronnies sketch.'

The exhibition at Portcullis House, London SW1 is open to the public during the
Open House London Weekend Sept 18-19, and thereafter by appointment. For more
details go to www.theelectionproject.co.uk

David Cameron

Spelsbury, May 6

David Cameron and his wife, Samantha, wave to a woman holding up a dog after
leaving the polling station in Spelsbury, Oxfordshire. An entrepreneurial woman
makes tea for the assembled media and sells it for 50p a cup.

Although it doesn't make the news reports - by convention there is no reporting
of political events on polling day - Cameron's vote is held up for two hours by
two young protesters dressed in boaters and blazers, drinking champagne. Their
banner reads: 'Britons know your place, vote Eton, vote Tory.'

Cameron's personal protection officer is overheard reflecting: 'perhaps they are
actually old Etonians and not being ironic at all.' When police eventually
arrest them, the crowd cheers and the Camerons arrive from their home four
minutes away in a silver Lexus.

Also visible in the larger version of this photograph is a Ladbrokes blackboard
showing the odds for each party and the Daily Mirror election mascot, a reporter
dressed as a chicken. He had stalked Cameron throughout the election in a bid to
add 'much needed silliness to a po-faced campaign'.

Poignantly, given the outcome, there is a lib Dem poster in the bottom left of
this photograph.

Gordon Brown

Rochdale, April 28

Rochdale is brought to national attention when Gordon Brown is caught on a tape
recording describing a local woman (Gillian Duffy) as a 'bigot'. Simon Roberts
watched the drama unfold in front of his eyes.

The Prime Minister is visiting a community reoffender project in the lancashire
town when Mrs Duffy calls out to him and asks why he is not addressing the debt
crisis. As part of the new 'real voters' strategy, she is ushered by an aide to
speak directly to the Prime Minister. Members of the public take pictures on
their mobile phones.

As soon as Brown leaves, the prisoners in orange coats who are clearing the path
are taken away. It had all been for show.

Because Brown is still wearing a microphone provided by Sky News, he is recorded
afterwards saying 'she was just a sort of bigoted woman who said she used to be
Labour'. When this picture is blown up, you can see a security guard on the left
with an earpiece. On the right is another security guard touching his gun.

A few minutes after this photograph is taken, Roberts can hear the Sky crew
debating whether or not it was a private conversation. He then watches them call
Mrs Duffy back and tell her what the PM has said. They ask her how shocked she
feels.

Captain Beany

Port Talbot, April 23

The constituency of Aberavon is a working-class seat and has returned a Labour
MP since 1922. Captain Beany, seen herewith some of his campaign team drinking
underneath his only campaign poster, is the sole leader and political campaigner
of the New Millennium Bean Party, which was formed naturally enough in 2000. In
this year's general election, he polled more votes than the UK Independence
Party. He got 558 votes, which was 1.8 per cent of the total available.

Nick Clegg

Warrington, April 16

The Liberal Democrat leader makes a speech on the morning after the first
Leaders' Debate. Polls showed he won by offering himself as the fresh and honest
alternative to two tired old parties. Here Clegg is stood on a soapbox beside
the Lib Dems' battle bus in a Tesco car park, besieged by the media. There is a
real sense of the claustrophobic conditions of canvassing. Note the child
pointing on the right and the partially visible sign reading 'helping you spend
every day'.

Nigel Farage, Buckingham, May 5

This is the largest seat in Buckinghamshire and it has many affluent villages.
John Bercow, the Speaker of the Commons, holds the seat but has given up his
party affiliation (Conservative) on the assumption that, as convention dictates,
he will be unopposed at the election. He hadn't reckoned on Ukip's Nigel Farage.

In this photograph, Farage can be seen directing his campaign staff before they
knock on doors around Western Avenue in Buckingham on the last full day of
canvassing. 'Straight talking' his poster says, and this message seems to be
reflected in the straight-armed gesture he is making.

On polling day, Farage survived a plane crash in the constituency after an
election banner got tangled in the engine.

'Covering Farage's campaign was funny because I was watching the various
candidates just missing each other - it was a bit like a "Two Ronnies" sketch.'

LOAD-DATE: September 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ringside seat Most of Simon Roberts's election photos were taken from a
vantage point atop his motorhome
PORTRAIT OF SIMON: DANIEL LILLIE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 12, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DON'T THEY KNOW WHO I AM?;
He's got the teeth and the tenacity for the big time. Now Piers Morgan must pull
it off. As the toppled tabloid editor lands a prestigious American TV slot,
Camilla Long uncovers his serious side. Surely some mistake?

BYLINE: Camilla Long uncovers

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 50,51,52,53,55,57,59,61

LENGTH: 3628 words


Piers Morgan has one hour to convince me he's not a total tosser. Ten seconds in
and he's still ahead of the buzzer - albeit a little sneery when I ask for a
skinny cappuccino, rolling his eyes at the waiter in the London Hotel in New
York, and squawking: "A skinny cappuccino? We're not in LA, darling."

But apart from that - and, well, a slightly shiny outfit in the shape of jeans
and a tight boy-band shirt, and the fact he can't stop gasping, or is it
gloating, that I flew over "economy!" - the ex-tabloid editor and prime-time-TV
revelation is smooth and chatty, relaxed from his recent honeymoon, gushing
about the hotel's "splendid" breakfasts, even letting me inspect his freshly
whitened teeth - "yes, yes, I've had them done," he says, squirming backwards
across the banquette... and all because he is "thrilled ", of course, with his
brand-new job as Larry King's replacement on CNN. Tomorrow he's off to a
photoshoot for American Vogue with his wife of three weeks, the journalist Celia
Walden. "Anna Wintour said, 'I see you in seersucker,' " he trills. He laughs,
and I laugh. Obviously, neither of us can believe it.

Well, who can? Who wants to? Six years ago, Morgan's career was reassuringly in
tatters. He'd been sacked from the Mirror, disgraced after running fake pictures
of British soldiers abusing prisoners in Iraq. He'd split up with the mother of
his three boys, lost his car, his secretary, even his fax. At 39, the man who
had screwed over almost everyone had finally been screwed over himself - and
everyone was delighted.

For three months he hid. Sulked. Brooded. Boozed. But then he was back, back in
business with The Insider, a brilliant, bestselling account of celebrity, power
and screwing everyone over. He stormed TV, landed Britain's Got Talent. He
jetted out to LA, landed America's Got Talent. He got his teeth fixed, his hair
pouffed, ditched the cheap suits and crap ties: all of a sudden, the ultimate
showbiz baboon was a shellebriddy himself.

Now he's on the cusp of yet another incarnation, a slightly more serious one
this time, "a handsome, powerful young man at the top of his game", he guffaws,
troffling into his smoked salmon and scrambled eggs. The job "of a lifetime".

And for once he's determined not to pants it up. "Whenever I get a big job,
everyone assumes it's going to go tits up: News of the World, the Mirror,
America's Got Talent," says Morgan, who has been sacked, or nearly sacked, from
almost every job he's ever done. The CNN gig "won't go wrong", he insists: quite
aside from anything else, the five-year contract for the nightly interview slot
is reportedly worth millions - the exact figure I don't know because I literally
couldn't bear to ask. Anyway, he's been gearing up for something like this "for,
like, 25 years!" he crows. "I'm 45. I couldn't think of a better platform. CNN
is screened in 212 countries! So basically you're being watched by the entire
world."

Well, maybe not. With dwindling viewing figures (a tiny 500,000), an audience of
incontinent pensioners, and a guest list that is more UFO abductee than leading
politician, the nightly show is far from a doozy. Morgan will not only have to
lift the ratings, but to fill big shoes: the eight-times married King, at 76, is
a broadcasting legend who has been doing the show for 25 years. Indeed, Morgan
spent quite a while persuading the network he could pull it off at all, given
his still-minor celebrity in America and the fact that his onscreen presence is
about as slick as the back end of a pantomime horse. He was quite lucky to have
the support of Simon Cowell, a friend and mentor he met a few years back when he
interviewed him on TV, "and he said the interview I did with him was the best
thing he'd ever done!" Morgan hoots. "He thinks I'm best at interviewing, so the
job is perfect." Cowell is one of the few figures "who has ever gone out of his
way to help me, and I've always appreciated that". A slightly peculiar
by-product of this relationship is that Morgan appears to have stolen Cowell's
teeth, Cowell's hair, and possibly one of his shirts.

So how will the audience respond to Piers Morgan Live? Only the day before our
interview a newspaper article said that most Americans thought he was David
Cameron. Morgan looks aghast. "I don't know who should be more offended, him or
me. Probably me." And then there's all the terribly rude things he's said about
them in the past, how New Yorkers were "so cocky, so brash, and so grasping",
although I realise this may also have been a compliment. Actually, he only
slagged them off because "I didn't know them then," he says.

So why did he write it? "Probably because I've made lots of comments in my life
that I don't know anything about and will probably continue to do so, ha ha ha!"
he says again. The stuff he wrote about British men being better in bed was also
rubbish, "repeating a statistic", apparently. And anyway, now he's actually over
here, "I've really got to like Americans. They're patriotic in a way we've
stopped being, eager to help. In fact, I think a lot of old-fashioned British
traits like politeness that are dying out in Britain are still strong here," he
says. Sometimes he can sound a bit like a member of Ukip.

And, to be perfectly honest, I hadn't expected him to be quite this earnest
either, constantly emphasising how "I'm afraid there is a part of me that's
quite serious, Camilla, and perhaps that's why I'm doing a nightly show on CNN",
burbling on about Picasso and politics and quiet soirées with Celia, saying he
doesn't really drink any more because he can't work out with a hangover - "You
don't get a body like this by drinking too much," he says, patting his sides. He
even goes so far as to claim he never got that drunk before either, because it
"slows your reactions down". Eh? His diaries have him pissed on every page.

Anyway, he looks good, trim and taut and less blubbery than a few years ago -
the result of fierce training sessions "three or four times a week" with his
giant Austrian trainer, Alex. Of course he still enjoys the odd long lunch -
takes great pleasure, in fact, in telling me in an email afterwards that he's
killing time "at the Ivy in Hollywood, waiting for my lobster" - but otherwise
these days private jets are more a matter of "time-saving"; hotels can even be
"lonely". He doesn't once mention his favourite hotel in the world, the Beverly
Wilshire in Los Angeles, and also appears to have given up name-dropping, unless
you count Sir Alan Sugar or Cliff Richard. Instead, it's all hard work and
motels, apparently, moping "in the middle of San Antonio on a wet Wednesday and
you're thinking, 'What am I doing here?' "

He sighs, and for a moment I almost feel concerned for him - concerned, that is,
that he might have developed a sensible, sensitive, grown-up side - until I
happen to mention his friends back in the British media, whereupon he instantly
turns puce and drops the hokey junior-Donald Trump act entirely, launching
straight back into a feisty attack on the "whining, stupid moaners who sit there
in bars in the old lanes around Fleet Street, saying, 'Oh, isn't he a wanker?'
all praying I'll fall flat on my face, and I'll be equally determined not to!
Having enemies is quite good, because there's always someone in your head to
say, 'I'm not going to let you win.'" He pauses to take in air.

"They've never even heard of Jeremy Clarkson here! He's irrelevant!"

Clarkson and Morgan have a long-standing feud after a punch-up they had at an
awards ceremony. Does he really hate him? "I don't hate him. I just don't get on
with him," he sighs.

Yes, a bit wet. But then Morgan is a bit wet: when Clarkson punched him in the
face, he didn't fight back, because "I thought I'd be fired," he sighs. "But
then of course I was fired anyway." He also famously fell out with Ian Hislop,
but beyond the "first six months of panto", he always seems quite relieved when
the tiffs are over. His reconciliation with Jonathan Ross, after accusing him of
not writing his own TV columns, sounds positively bromantic: "I was in LA with
my kids and I suddenly thought, I don't want to have a feud with Jonathan Ross,
so I fired off an email... and he came back within five minutes saying, 'I'm so
glad you did that, I shouldn't have done what I did,' etc... so I forgave
him..."

People still continue to hate him, of course, a fact that genuinely baffles him
(there's a lot of reassurance that he actually has "a right laugh with Clarkson,
when we meet at a party, establishing the rules of engagement going forward"),
although he does think that most of the criticism "comes from Britain". But what
about the professor from Columbia University in New York who wrote only
yesterday that you weren't up to the CNN job? Another sigh.

"Every job I've been put forward for in my life, at least half the media have
reacted with utter horror, saying it's going to be a calamity, whether I was
editor of the Bizarre column at 23, News of the World at 28, Mirror at 30, or
any of them ... " He trails off, exasperated. Maybe it would help if he stopped
repeating his CV all the time?

"I don't know," he says wearily. Maybe I just have one of those faces where
people see a calamity."

Well, will this be a calamity? "Noooo!" he chortles. "It'll be a rip-roaring
success!" Having said that, he doesn't seem to have a clue who his first guest
will be. "Urr... I don't know," he says, giggling.

"The show doesn't start for six weeks."

That's hardly any time at all! He'll have to get a move on, or it'll be Katie
Price and the trouble with her tits again, just like the good old days of Piers
Morgan's Life Stories.

"Well, Obama would be fantastic," he reflects, "and right now a heart-to-heart
with Mel Gibson... We could get to the meat of the Mel problem quite quickly."
He says his guest selection will not be too highbrow, though it will include
"senior politicians". Actually, Morgan isn't bad on politicos - he got the CNN
job because of a big interview he did with Gordon Brown just before the general
election in which the then prime minister spoke movingly about the death of his
baby daughter.

As the editor of the Mirror, he "had 56 one-on-one meetings with Tony Blair", so
although he is "not well known to the Washington intelligentsia", he doesn't see
why he shouldn't land an Obama or a Clinton. "I think my greatest asset as an
interviewer is that I never go into a room thinking I'm intellectually inferior
to anyone," he states, perhaps obviously, before going on to concede that a lot
of people in entertainment, including a number of the guests - although I'm only
guessing here - who have appeared on PMLS, are "obviously stupid".

Having said that, one of his most famous interviews - with Nick Clegg - might
come in useful should he bag a Clinton. Even Morgan was "flabbergasted" when the
Lib Dem leader suddenly revealed he'd had 30 lovers, "especially as he had two
female assistants sitting next to him and they all sat there laughing", he
gasps. "I thought, 'Do you know what you're doing?' "

The resulting media storm, "Cleggover", was one of his greatest post-Mirror
scoops, followed closely by the one with Arnold Schwarzenegger, in which the
Governator of California admitted to having smoked cannabis, as well as another
one with Helen Mirren in which she revealed her love of cocaine.

"The moment she said it, I knew the tabloids would all go with the headline
QUEEN LOVES COKE. They didn't let me down," he says.

Has Morgan himself ever taken drugs? "I have," he says.

Oh! I say. Well, er, what?

"That's all I'm going to say."

But it's too late - I smell a splash. Unfortunately, I then get overexcited,
going through all the drugs I can think of, even asking him if he's ever taken
smack, which obviously he hasn't - wouldn't even consider it, apparently - but
he's now clammed up, won't tell me who he's snogged, who he's slept with, or
even - a surefire, surely - how good he is in bed.

"A gentleman wouldn't answer that," he says, primly. He won't even hint at the
number either, because "I don't think a gentleman ever should," he repeats, with
a smirk. "But you'd be surprised how many want to."

Oh, sick bag for table 10. I can't honestly imagine how insufferable Morgan will
become if this all works out. Even at his lowest, he was pretty impossible,
demonically self-confident, self-assured, manipulative, competitive, "twice as
smug as a man who'd just learned to fellate himself", as one writer put it.
Obviously, he's terrific fun too, clever and combative, but quite capable of
being horribly vindictive. I still gasp at the way he got his own back during
his time at the Mirror - several very personal campaigns - and if you happen to
be a female celebrity he doesn't love, a gen'leman he is certainly not.

And even though he makes lots of jolly jokes about this particular encounter,
such as, "Ooh, don't forget to leave the nice bits in, Camilla", the truth is
they don't really feel like jokes, they feel like threats: come the 87th volume
of his diaries, I'm sure he'd be quite happy to relate how I was really nice but
then I screwed him over, how I wore a low-cut top (all right, I did) and how he
thinks I really fancied him, but actually I'm not his type.

"Very good," he laughs, "but I wouldn't bother with the word 'thinks'."
Whereupon he quite actively encourages me to attack him, saying he'd prefer it.
Odd.

What on earth must his boys, Spencer, 17, Stanley, 13, and Bertie, 9, make of
all this puerile behaviour? "I think I'm probably quite a good dad," he
protests, "not in the conventional sense that I'm there every minute, but I
think I'm quite a good dad and I think the boys think so too."

He recently took them on holiday to Antigua - "a great adventure" - but now that
he's away full-time, how does he think things will work out?

"My kids are very well adjusted and pragmatic," he says. "I'd like to see them
more, but I don't a feel bad about it. I talk to them every day." Two of them
are at boarding school, "so even if I wasn't away I wouldn't see much of them".

Most of the time, the boys live with their mother, Marion. Morgan married her at
26. She is a quiet, long-suffering presence in his diaries, but seems to have
some kind of horrific mental illness: a weakness for showbiz columnists. When
she and Morgan split up, she promptly moved on to the News of the World showbiz
editor, Rav Singh. "Who is, by the way, a very nice guy I get on well with..."
says Morgan.

I ask him why they got divorced. Another sigh. "I've been waiting to go into
that for ages - thank God you mentioned it!" He's joking, obviously - rumour has
it he left Marion for another journalist.

"I'm not going into it because we agreed." He pauses. Looks larky. "But go on,
keep probing!" Actually, I'm feeling a little exhausted by the constant badinage
- chatting with Morgan is like endlessly throwing a stick for a demented borzoi,
back and forth, back and forth, to the extent that after one particularly long
and tiring session, I finally call him a tosser. He is thrilled: "Ha, ha, she
cracks!" he says. Again, odd.

So I change the subject and ask about the fragrant Celia. She's here in New York
with him, upstairs, "working". The couple met in 2006 and just got married in a
quiet ceremony in Oxfordshire. "Three weeks and we're still together," he says.
The wedding was "very small, about 50 people" - and according to a guest at the
party afterwards, "actually quite tasteful", a hog roast with a photo booth and
lots of nice things. Other guests included the cream of media and lite
entertainment, Amanda Holden and Alastair Campbell, as well as Sarah Brown.

For Morgan, the highlight of the whole event was obviously "the paparazzi
intrusion". Initially, he thought he "could defy the world's media", he says.
"My brother is in Afghanistan at the moment and recommended these three
specialforces guys, so I hired them to patrol the perimeter with instructions to
shoot to kill. But we hadn't bargained on a helicopter hovering over the church.
When it came to the third time, I said to the vicar" - he pauses to laugh -
"'Does this normally happen in the Oxfordshire countryside?'" Only Morgan could
wind up the vicar at his own wedding.

Anyway, he's glad they didn't get the shots. "Having turned down fortunes from
Hello! and OK!, the last thing you want is someone getting those pictures for
nothing," he guffaws. But he is extremely relieved they made the effort: "The
worst thing would be to be ignored." The plan now is for Celia to fit in with
Morgan's career "in any way she wants". Nice. He shrugs. "She's very independent
and has her own career."

Yes - but won't they get lonely? He will be based in New York, will continue to
write his newspaper columns and do America's Got Talent, but he won't be coming
home for Britain's Got Talent. Or for her?

"I think that everyone who works away gets lonely," he says. "But would I rather
have a nice easy life back in Britain, where I could see my children all the
time and have a normal domestic life with Celia? No, because I'd get bored very
quickly and they'd find me really irritating." He pauses, while I try to
envisage what that could remotely be like. "I wouldn't want Celia to become a
haemorrhage to my career, and she wouldn't want that anyway," he says. "We'll
make it work - we always do."

They never argue: "Can't be bothered."

Oh dear! And the odd thing is, their relationship was once quite passionate.
When they met in 2006 - Celia posed for GQ in her underwear - Morgan was sent to
"interview" her. He "proposed after four days" and has talked about her nonstop
ever since: how a beautiful and posh and fluent in Italian she is, how clumsy
and 'umble and Bottom-ish he is by comparison, all very slurpy.

Certainly, their backgrounds are different: she the daughter of the former Tory
MP George Walden, he a boy who grew up in a pub. Born Piers O'Meara in 1965, he
seems to have had quite a strange upbringing, the eldest son of Gabrielle, an
artist, and a father who died when he was one. He became Piers Pughe-Morgan when
she remarried. He attended a smart prep school until the age of 13, then moved
to a comprehensive. His mother wishes "they'd had enough money to send me to
public school", he says, which might explain why he always seems rather unsure
socially, trying to fit in with barrow boys as well as posh boys, lads and
stuffed shirts - his brother Jeremy is in the army. He says he isn't sorry that
he didn't have an expensive education, because "going to a comprehensive ironed
out a lot of chips you can get when you come through a private education". But
surely it should be the other way around? In the event, state school was
probably the making of Morgan. He skipped university and got a job at Lloyd's
because he wanted to make loads of money, but found it "boring". So he
transferred to journalism and landed a job on The Sun under Kelvin MacKenzie.

Morgan adored his first mentor and editor. In turn, MacKenzie loved taking the
piss out of him. Colleagues report that he would regularly pass Morgan's desk on
the way to the loo, saying: "Oh, is that a proof? Good. I need something to wipe
my arse on."

He says that he dropped the Pughe because his name was too long and he wasn't
getting any bylines, but there are plenty of enormous names on tabloids, so who
knows? As it happened, he rose quickly - well, you know the CV. He still has
vague nostalgia about his first love, editing - "the thrill of the newsroom, but
then I look at you flying out to meet me and I think, bloody hell, why would you
want to do that?" he says, which, in spite of sounding like an insult, actually
comes as a bit of a relief, because one of the things Morgan always likes,
rather unpleasantly, to assert when he sees me is that he "could one day be the
editor of The Sunday Times". Anyway, the CNN job will keep him on his toes,
especially on a big news day, so he can burn off some of that friskiness.

He attributes a lot of his drive to the influence of his mother, "a rock" who
taught him that working hard would get him nice things. Today the ex-editor of
the Mirror unashamedly sends his boys to expensive schools, drives expensive
cars, and just bought Celia's big childhood house in Kensington. (Yes, really
creepy! Speaks volumes.) His mother is "terrifically" proud of his achievements,
he says. He constantly refers to her, and to his grandmother too; perhaps this
is why he is so surprisingly needy.

After the interview, he keeps trying to get me to say how much fun I had during
"our time together", that I really enjoyed it, confirm why I "laughed so much" -
true, sorry! - although he might equally have wanted to get something on file
for later.

As for being a tosser, his undying urge to bound up to celebrities and put his
arm around them - "and they'd say, 'Why don't you f*** off?'" - or mug for the
camera with them, as he did in the early days of Bizarre, will thankfully never
go away, however much he wants to be Gordon Gekko's suppository just this
second. Quite aside from anything else, "I can't imagine the terrible pressure
of being a saintly public figure," he admits.

Does he actually prefer being a tosser? "Yes," he says. "Less pressure, more
fun!" Stupid old me, hoping he'd persuade me otherwise.

HE TURNS PUCE, LAUNCHING STRAIGHT INTO A FEISTY ATTACK ON THE 'WHINING, STUPID
MOANERS WHO SIT IN BARS IN THE LANES AROUND FLEET STREET, PRAYING I'LL FALL FLAT
ON MY FACE'

MORGAN DOES BOTTLE THINGS. WHEN CLARKSON PUNCHED HIM IN THE FACE HE DIDN'T FIGHT
BACK. 'I THOUGHT I'D GET FIRED,' HE SIGHS. 'BUT THEN OF COURSE I GOT FIRED
ANYWAY'

IN 2006, CELIA WALDEN POSED FOR A MAGAZINE IN HER UNDERWEAR AND MORGAN WAS SENT
TO 'INTERVIEW' HER. HE 'PROPOSED AFTER FOUR DAYS' AND HAS TALKED ABOUT HER EVER
SINCE

LOAD-DATE: September 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New York state of mind: Piers Morgan surveys his new kingdom from the
rooftops of the Big Apple
Ben Baker
Portrait: Ben Baker
Left: softly softly with Gordon Brown in February. Far left, top: his
predecessor at CNN, Larry King. Far left, centre: banter with Joan Collins.
Bottom: end of his tabloid career, 2004
PAGES 50-51: BEN BAKER/REDUX FOR THE SUNDAY TIMES MAGAZINE. GROOMING: APRIL
BARTON OF SUITE 303. STYLIST: BOZHENA OREKHOVA. SUIT: DOLCE & GABBANA; SHIRT,
TIE: BURBERRY; SHOES: GIORGIO ARMANI. P52-53: MAIN IMAGE: ITV. TOP LEFT: AP.
BOTTOM LEFT: PA
Right: sharing the love with a contestant on Britain's Got Talent in May. Below:
an old adversary, Jeremy Clarkson. He and Morgan have 'a right laugh' when they
meet
TOP RIGHT: TALKBACK THAMES
Morgan's bride-to-be, Celia Walden, in 2006. Left: with his first wife, Marion,
and their son Bertie in 2005
LEFT: THE PICTURE LIBRARY LTD. RIGHT: JEZ SMITH/VIVIEN'S CREATIVE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 11, 2010 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 869 words


NO TURN-ON FOR TINA BRITISH expat Tina Brown (right), one of America's more
influential editors, seems to have given up on Barack Obama.

She once wrote, all aglow, about Mr Obama's 'heat quotient'. Now, her Daily
Beast website declares the U.S. President has lost his sex appeal. 'No amount of
Viagra' will help, it states. 'Uxorious men are never sexy for long.'

Mother Brown's website concludes that this 'leaves America without a single
politician of stature with any sex appeal'.

Perhaps we can lend them Eric Pickles for a long weekend . . .

SWALLOWCLIFFE Manor, a dreamy house near Salisbury that was owned

the late thriller writer James Leasor, is on the market. Bids to start around
63.5 million.

Leasor's son Jeremy had archaeologists round and they found evidence the site
had been occupied 'as long ago as the 17th century'.

Jeremy snorted: 'Pah, that's nothing.' The archaeologists replied: 'No, no. We
mean 17th century BC.'

WE'RE NOT TAKING THE TAX CUTS SITTING DOWN

BY MY watch, it was 10.22pm on Wednesday when Nick Robinson, BBC political
editor, said: 'Cutting spending is a game in which there are only losers.'

I know and like Nick, and happily salute the professionalism of BBC politics
reporters. But I'm afraid that remark , in a scripted, pre-recorded piece ,
betrayed a deep, institutional bias against the Cameron Government's cuts.

Debt reduction is not bad. It is good for people on all levels of income, most
crucially the poor. A bankrupt country would not be able to help the needy. Only
if we have sound finances can we run a welfare state.

A leaner state would be good for taxpayers. It would allow them to keep more of
the money they earn.

There is also a moral good in debt reduction. It improves self-respect and lifts
a burden from our grandchildren.

Nick Robinson's remark shows what Downing Street is up against. Spin doctor Andy
Coulson is right to worry about the BBC's presentation of the looming cuts. The
past week brought two quirky examples of state extravagance.

First, in a dusty committee room on Tuesday, the Judicial Appointments
Commission said it had just spent 6400,000 on actors. These thespians performed
role-play scenarios in the training of judges. Such fantasy sessions are held to
meet politically correct rules about 'accessibility', in case applicants are
unfamiliar with courts.

Er, if they're that inexperienced, what the blazes are we doing even considering
making them judges? Tory MP Claire Perry (Devizes) started to ask sharp
questions, but she was soon doused

the meeting's insufferably wet chairman, Sir Alan Beith.

Second, Matthew Hancock (Con, West Suffolk) has been asking about Whitehall's
spending on furniture. The MoD said that since 2002 it has spent 636.3 million
on 517,764 chairs. Whaaaat?

The Department of Work and Pensions has blown 63 million on chairs since 2007.
These have included rocking chairs and double bucket leather seats. Lurve jobs.
And we paid for them.

WOULD-BE UKIP leader Nigel Farage, nearly killed in a light aeroplane in May, is
plainly not superstitious. Last month he returned to the air for the first time,
taking off from Biarritz. The date? Friday the 13th.

DRASTIC FOR DRAPER

BAD news for Labour's Derek Draper and his TV presenter wife Kate Garraway.
Officialdom has refused their appeal against a demolition order on an extension
at their London home. Some months ago, they were told to remove the extension to
the listed, 19th-century building. Mr Draper, who in 1997 claimed to be one of
the best-connected people in the country, appealed. Would his fabled contacts
come to his aid? No. His extension 'eroded a key element of the architectural
composition of the property', the Planning Inspectorate has just concluded.

Send in the wrecking ball!

WAKE UP AND FEAR THE COFFEY

NEW Tory MP Therese Coffey (Suffolk Coastal) hinted in a committee this week
that she knows interesting things about the BBC's money management. Alas, she
can't disclose them easily, having signed a confidentiality agreement when she
left the BBC (until this year, she worked high up in the Beeb's property
division).

Miss Coffey (right), a football fan and real ale enthusiast, is a no-nonsense
pocket dreadnought.

Educated at Oxford, she later took a chemistry PhD and became a finance director
at Mars before joining the BBC.

It would be unfair to call her the new Ann Widdecombe, but she has Widdy's
mustard bite.

Were I on the BBC Trust, I would be afraid of Miss Coffey. She has an
accountant's nose for waste and a politician's taste for publicising it.

For instance, she admits that 'due to an administrative oversight, I was
overpaid

the BBC'. Oops. Clumsy old wages department.

Were I Jeremy Hunt, the Culture Secretary, I would seek out Miss Coffey's views
on where the BBC can save cash. Were I George Osborne, I would want her on the
Public Accounts Committee. Pronto. WATCH out, Speaker Bercow. On Wednesday
night, I was stopped

one of the most serious and sober of all Tory backbenchers to be told the
parliamentary party is close to eruption over Bercow's conduct in the chair.

My Tory grandee said there is even talk of a no confidence vote. I don't see
that happening, but it is interesting that they feel so angry with
Labour-friendly Bercow.

LOAD-DATE: September 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           September 10, 2010 Friday

Labour claims victory in Exeter and Norwich elections

BYLINE: Karen McVeighguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 483 words

ABSTRACT

Exeter and Norwich council elections represent largest voting test since
formation of the coalition in May

FULL TEXT

Labour today claimed that results in a string of council seats in Exeter and
Norwich showed voters were rejecting the coalition's policies on cutting the
deficit.

Labour became the largest party on Exeter city council, winning more than half
the 13 seats available in last night's by-elections.

The party won two from the Tories and recovered one lost earlier through a
defection.

The Tories compensated by winning one seat from the Liberal Democrats and one
from the separate Liberal party, but also lost two seats. The Lib Dems, who had
controlled the council, lost one of the three seats they were defending.

Councillors in Exeter and Norwich were forced to seek re-election after a court
ruling rejecting plans for new all-purpose authorities. The contests represented
the largest voting test since the formation of the coalition government in May.

A move by the previous government to grant unitary status, which would have
extended until 2011 terms due to expire in May this year, was quashed by the
high court in July. One of the Exeter contests was for an additional by-election
after a resignation.

Tories, Liberal Democrats and the Green party fought all 13 seats at Exeter and
Labour fought 12. Ukip had 10 candidates and the Liberal party and BNP had one
each.

The Labour MP for Exeter, Ben Bradshaw, said: "This is a fantastic result for
Labour and a fantastic result for Exeter.

"People here have voted for a progressive party dedicated to supporting the
recovery, and have rejected the coalition's irresponsible plans that will hit
the poorest hardest and risk jobs and economic growth in Exeter."

Despite losing control of the council, the Liberal Democrat group leader claimed
he was relieved. Adrian Fullam, who was leader of the council, said that while
he did not want local people to suffer, he was looking forward to seeing Labour
"squirm" after its success meant it would now preside over severe cuts.

No firm arrangements have yet been made, but it is usual in Exeter for the party
with the most seats to run the council.

Fullam conceded that some Liberal Democrat supporters had not voted because of
the national political situation.

"A few people are concerned about the coalition," he said.

In Norwich, Conservatives, Labour, Lib Dems and Greens contested all 13 seats
and Ukip fought five.

In an early blow for Liberal Democrats at the Norwich count, they lost at Thorpe
Hamlet to the Green party. This ward is in the Norwich South constituency where
Lib Dems ousted Labour's former home secretary Charles Clarke in May's general
election.

But despite its one gain from Lib Dems, the Greens failed in their bid to become
the largest party in a town hall for the first time, a disappointing result
ahead of the first day of their party conference.

They had hoped to

LOAD-DATE: October 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday

Britain now home to 4 million immigrants

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 475 words


More than four million foreign nationals now live in Britain - nearly seven per
cent of the population, according to the latest official statistics.

The UK is one of the most sought after destinations in europe for immigrants.
only germany and Spain have a larger number of foreign citizens.

in contrast, Poland, romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia have less than one per cent
of their populations made up of foreign nationals.

Yesterday Labour's shambolic immigration policy was blamed for opening the
floodgates.

And critics said the official figures for UK immigrants had been "wildly
underestimated".

Figures released by the eU's statistical office, eurostat, reveals that
4,020,800 foreign citizens are living in the UK.

More than 2.4 million came from countries outside the eU while around 1.6
million originated from member states.

Figures show that on January 1 2009, more than seven million foreign citizens
were living in germany while Spain was home to 5.6 million - more than 12 per
cent of its population.

Britain was followed closely by France and italy, both with just under four
million immigrants.

Last night UKiP party chairman Paul nuttall said: "of course Britain is a place
where people want to come and live and i would say this is a massive
underestimate. The figures are questionable because we do not control our
borders."

immigration Minister damian green pledged to tackle the crisis inherited by the
coalition government.

He said: "This government is taking a much tougher approach to immigration.

"We will reduce net migration to the levels of the nineties - the tens of
thousands rather than the hundreds of thousands we have seen in recent years.

"And we will take tough action to remove those who have no right to be here by
enforcing returns and beefing up the protection of our border with a new border
police force."

The latest figures were published as the government revealed it cost taxpayers
£28million last year to deport failed asylum seekers and immigration offenders.

More than £10million was spent hiring private jets and a further £18million on
scheduled flights.

A total of £109.9million has been spent on flights deporting illegal immigrants
from the UK over the past five years.

The latest figures, released by Mr green in a parliamentary written answer, were
higher than at any point since 2005, when the government spent a total of
£17.2million.

A total of 67,215 people were removed or departed voluntarily from the UK last
year, down one per cent from 2008, home office figures have revealed.

Country Total foreign % of Migrants from Migrants from citizens population
within the EU non EU states Germany 7,185,900 8.8 2,530,700 4,655,200 Spain
5,651,000 12.3 2,274,200 3,376,800 UK 4,020,800 6.6 1,614,800 2,406,000 Italy
3,891,300 6.5 1,131,800 2,759,500 France 3,737,500 5.8 1,302,400 2,435,200 EURO
MIGRATION IN NUMBERS

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Pledge to get tough as 4 million immigrants make UK their home

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 525 words


MORE than four million foreign nationals are now living in Britain - nearly
seven per cent of the country's total population, according to the latest
official statistics.

The UK is one of the most sought-after destinations in Europe for immigrants.

Only Germany and Spain now have a larger number of foreign citizens.

In contrast, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia have less than one per cent
of their populations made up of foreign nationals.

Yesterday the Labour Party's shambolic immigration policy was blamed for opening
the floodgates.

And critics stated that the offi-cial figures for UK immigrants had been "wildly
underestimated".

Population

Figures released by the EU's statistical office, Eurostat, reveals that
4,020,800 foreign citizens are living in the UK.

More than 2.4 million of the immigrants came from countries outside the EU while
around 1.6 million of them originated from member states.

The newly-released figures show that on January 1 2009, more than seven million
foreign citizens were living in Germany while Spain was home to 5.6 million -
more than 12 per cent of its total population.

Britain was followed closely by France and Italy, both of which have just under
four million immigrants.

Last night UKIP party chairman Paul Nuttall said: "Of course Britain is a place
where people want to come and live and I would say this is a massive
underestimate.

The figures are questionable because we do not control our borders."

Immigration Minister Damian Green pledged to tackle the crisis inherited by the
coalition Government due to Labour's policies while in power.

09n15graphic He said: "This Government is taking a much tougher approach to
immigration.

"We will reduce net migration to the levels of the Nineties - the tens of
thousands rather than the hundreds of thousands we have seen in recent years.

"And we will take tough action to remove those who have no right to be here by
enforcing returns and beefing up the protection of our border with a new border
police force."

The latest figures were published as the Government revealed it cost taxpayers a
shocking figure of £28million last year to deport failed asylum seekers and
immigration offenders.

More than £10million was spent hiring private jets and a further £18million went
on shipping would-be immigrants back home on scheduled flights.

Illegal

A total of £109.9million has been spent on flights deporting illegal immigrants
from the UK over the past five years, the figures revealed.

The latest immigration figures, which have been released by Mr Green in a
parliamentary written answer, were higher than at any point since 2005, when the
Government spent a total of £17.2million.

A total of 67,215 people were removed or departed voluntarily from the United
Kingdom last year, down one per cent from 2008, Home Office figures have
revealed.

Country Total foreign % of Migrants from Migrants from citizens population
within the EU non EU states Germany 7,185,900 8.8 2,530,700 4,655,200 Spain
5,651,000 12.3 2,274,200 3,376,800 UK 4,020,800 6.6 1,614,800 2,406,000 Italy
3,891,300 6.5 1,131,800 2,759,500 France 3,737,500 5.8 1,302,400 2,435,200 EURO
MIGRATION IN NUMBERS

LOAD-DATE: September 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Damian Green promised to tackle immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britain now home to 4 million immigrants

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 422  words


MORE than four million foreign nationals now live in Britain - nearly seven per
cent of the population, according to the latest official statistics.

The UK is one of the most sought after destinations in Europe for immigrants.
Only Germany and Spain have a larger number of foreign citizens.

In contrast, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia have less than one per cent
of their populations made up of foreign nationals.

Yesterday Labour's shambolic immigration policy was blamed for opening the
floodgates.

And critics said the official figures for UK immigrants had been "wildly
underestimated".

Figures released by the EU's statistical office, Eurostat, reveals that
4,020,800 foreign citizens are living in the UK.

More than 2.4 million came from countries outside the EU while around 1.6
million originated from member states.

Figures show that on January 1 2009, more than seven million foreign citizens
were living in Germany while Spain was home to 5.6 million - more than 12 per
cent of its population.

Britain was followed closely by France and Italy, both with just under four
million immigrants.

Last night UKIP party chairman Paul Nuttall said: "Of course Britain is a place
where people want to come and live and I would say this is a massive
underestimate. The figures are questionable because we do not control our
borders."

Immigration Minister Damian Green pledged to tackle the crisis inherited by the
coalition Government.

He said: "This Government is taking a much tougher approach to immigration.

"We will reduce net migration to the levels of the Nineties - the tens of
thousands rather than the hundreds of thousands we have seen in recent years.

"And we will take tough action to remove those who have no right to be here by
enforcing returns and beefing up the protection of our border with a new border
police force."

The latest figures were published as the Government revealed it cost taxpayers
GBP 28million last year to deport failed asylum seekers and immigration
offenders.

More than GBP 10million was spent hiring private jets and a further GBP
18million on scheduled flights.

A total of GBP 109.9million has been spent on flights deporting illegal
immigrants from the UK over the past five years.

The latest figures, released by Mr Green in a parliamentary written answer, were
higher than at any point since 2005, when the Government spent a total of GBP
17.2million.

A total of 67,215 people were removed or departed voluntarily from the UK last
year, down one per cent from 2008, Home Office figures have revealed.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           September 9, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Pledge to get tough as 4 million immigrants make UK their home

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 20

LENGTH: 468  words


MORE than four million foreign nationals are now living in Britain - nearly
seven per cent of the country's total population, according to the latest
official statistics.

The UK is one of the most sought-after destinations in Europe for immigrants.

Only Germany and Spain now have a larger number of foreign citizens.

In contrast, Poland, Romania, Bulgaria and Slovakia have less than one per cent
of their populations made up of foreign nationals.

Yesterday the Labour Party's shambolic immigration policy was blamed for opening
the floodgates.

And critics stated that the official figures for UK immigrants had been "wildly
underestimated".

Figures released by the EU's statistical office, Eurostat, reveals that
4,020,800 foreign citizens are living in the UK.

More than 2.4 million of the immigrants came from countries outside the EU while
around 1.6 million of them originated from member states.

The newly-released figures show that on January 1 2009, more than seven million
foreign citizens were living in Germany while Spain was home to 5.6 million -
more than 12 per cent of its total population.

Britain was followed closely by France and Italy, both of which have just under
four million immigrants.

Last night UKIP party chairman Paul Nuttall said: "Of course Britain is a place
where people want to come and live and I would say this is a massive
underestimate. The figures are questionable because we do not control our
borders."

Immigration Minister Damian Green pledged to tackle the crisis inherited by the
coalition Government due to Labour's policies while in power.

He said: "This Government is taking a much tougher approach to immigration.

"We will reduce net migration to the levels of the Nineties - the tens of
thousands rather than the hundreds of thousands we have seen in recent years.

"And we will take tough action to remove those who have no right to be here by
enforcing returns and beefing up the protection of our border with a new border
police force."

The latest figures were published as the Government revealed it cost taxpayers a
shocking figure of GBP 28million last year to deport failed asylum seekers and
immigration offenders.

More than GBP 10million was spent hiring private jets and a further GBP
18million went on shipping would-be immigrants back home on scheduled flights.

A total of GBP 109.9million has been spent on flights deporting illegal
immigrants from the UK over the past five years, the figures revealed.

The latest immigration figures, which have been released by Mr Green in a
parliamentary written answer, were higher than at any point since 2005, when the
Government spent a total of GBP 17.2million.

A total of 67,215 people were removed or departed voluntarily from the United
Kingdom last year, down one per cent from 2008, Home Office figures have
revealed.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Damian Green promised to tackle immigration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          September 8, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Barroso calls for powers to raise the EU budget

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 385 words


JOSÉ Manuel Barroso has used his inaugural "state of the union" speech to demand
new powers to raise money to fund the growing European Union budget at a time of
austerity and national spending cuts.

Speaking to MEPs, in an event billed as emulating the annual speech by the
American president to US Congress, the European Commission president insisted
that "a euro spent at European level gets you more than a euro spent at national
level".

"Pooling money at the European level allows member states to cut their costs,
avoid overlaps and get a better return on their investment," he said yesterday.

Mr Barroso's intervention is timed to coincide with tough negotiations over
future financing of the EU as the commission and European Parliament clash with
Britain, which is seeking to cut expenditure in Brussels.

In an attempt to escape national vetoes over spending, Mr Barroso proposed
giving the EU the right to raise money by issuing bonds, a facility currently
limited to "sovereign" nation states.

"We should explore new sources of financing for major European infrastructure
projects. For instance, I will propose the establishment of EU project bonds,
together with the European Investment Bank," he said.

So-called "Eurobonds" have been historically favoured by EU federalists keen to
give the "union" more state-like powers by allowing it to get loans from bond
markets.

The idea is regarded with deep suspicion by national governments, including
Germany and Britain, because of questions over who would take the responsibility
for debt defaults or losses.

Syed Kamall, a Conservative MEP for London, said: "If Barroso gets his way the
EU will have the power to raise its own taxes and sell debt.

"It is hard to say how this is anything but a big step towards a federal
Europe."

During the "state of the union" debate, Nigel Farage, Ukip's European leader,
told Mr Barroso that "there is one fundamental difference between you and US
President Obama. He, of course, is elected and you are not."

George Osborne, the Chancellor, was in Brussels yesterday for talks on
commission proposals on new EU rules to restrict national budgets.

He warned Mr Barroso that he would not accept any plans to raise an extra
£3billion for EU budgets by axing the British rebate, which was negotiated by
Baroness Thatcher in 1984.

LOAD-DATE: September 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday

EU WANTS OUR 65BN

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 807 words


BUDGET CHIEF CALLS FOR UK'S REBATE TO BE SCRAPPED

BRITAIN'S 65billion rebate from Brussels was under threat last night after the
EU's budget chief warned that the justification for the annual payment had
'clearly sunk'.

Janusz Lewandowski suggested that the rebate, which was secured

Margaret Thatcher in 1984, should be scrapped as it had 'lost its original
legitimacy'.

Mr Lewandowski, the Budget Commissioner, said an ongoing review of the EU's
budget would target a number of previously 'taboo' subjects, including Britain's
rebate.

His comments provoked an angry response in Britain, where critics say that the
UK's 68.3billion a year net contribution to the EU is already far too high.

Last night Downing Street said David Cameron would defend the British rebate in
the forthcoming negotiations on the EU's budget.

The annual rebate was worth 65bil-lion last year, but is forecast to fall to
63.25billion this year. Mrs Thatcher won it after years of negotiations, which
culminated in a threat to withhold payments to Brussels. Other European leaders
finally gave way and accepted the then Prime Minister's argument that Britain
received far less back in farm payments than countries such as France and
Germany.

But the rebate has long been targeted

the Brussels elite. With the European Commission now bidding for a 6 per cent
increase in its 6107billion annual budget, the rebate looks likely to be in
their sights again.

Mr Lewandowski, a 59-year-old Polish economist, said the rebate would be
included in the review of the EU budget to be published next month.

In an interview with the German business newspaper Handelsblatt, he said Britain
was now a much wealthier country than in the 1980s and could afford to pay more.

Mr Lewandowski, who is also pressing for the EU to be allowed to levy its own
taxes, added: 'In my opinion, the discount for Great Britain has lost its
original legitimacy. The structure of the EU budget has changed substantially.

'The portion of agricultural spending - and that was the original justification
for the discount - has clearly sunk.'

Last night a spokesman for Mr Lewandowski insisted he was 'neutral' in the row
about Britain's rebate. The issue will be an early test of Mr Cameron's pledge
to stand up for British interests in Europe. Although Britain has a veto over
any decision concerning the rebate, it is clear it will be on the negotiating
table.

Asked about Mr Lewandowski's comments, Downing Street said: 'We disagree with
him. We think the rebate continues to be justified.

'In the absence of a rebate our net contribution to the EU would be double that
of France and we don't think that is acceptable.'

Tory former Cabinet minister John Redwood said: 'We have negotiated a sensible
rebate in the past and we should be telling Brussels to keep its hands off.

'Instead of asking for more money the EU should be leading the way and cutting
its own spending, which is less important and less desirable than core domestic
spending on things like schools and hospitals.' :The European Commission has
obtained a 'personalised postcode' for its new headquarters in Smith Square,
Central London.

The building had the postcode SW1P 3HH during its former role as the
headquarters for the Conservative Party. But yesterday it emerged that this has
now been changed to SW1P 3EU.

Paul Nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: 'The vanity of the
Eurocrats stops at nothing. They obviously have more of our money than sense.'

Comment - Page 14

HOW MAGGIE WON THE CASH

BRITAIN owes its EU rebate to Margaret Thatcher's tough negotiating stance.

In 1984, the then Prime Minister secured the rebate

banging thetableanddemanding 'our own money back' during a European summit in
Fontainebleau, near Paris.

Mrs Thatcher threatened to withhold Britain's annual payments to Brussels and
fellow EU leaders eventually caved in to her 'handbagging'.

In the intervening years the deal has been worth tens of billions of pounds to
Britain.

It was agreed after Mrs Thatcher produced evidence that Britain's relative
payments were far higher than those of other countries.

Because the UK has a relatively small farming sector it gains relatively little
from the vast Common Agricultural Policy, which dominates the EU budget.

Under the 1984 deal Britain is repaid two-thirds of the difference between what
it pays out to Brussels and what it receives back. Last year this was worth
65billion.

But the rebate was watered down in 2005 in a controversial agreement struck

Tony Blair. Under the new deal the rebate formula will no longer apply to
billions of pounds of the EU budget used to fund regeneration projects in
poorerEU statessuchasGreece and the former communist regimes in Eastern Europe.

The new deal means Britain's rebate is forecast to fall to 63.25billion this
year. It could cost the UK 69.3billion over a seven-year period.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 7, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 684 words


?With so few willing or able to relinquish their lucrative positions on a point
of principle, the world of sport owes a huge debt to the former England legend
and face of Match of the Day Gary Lineker. He marched away from his column on
the Mail on Sunday four months ago, you may recall, after the paper printed
lurid, unhelpful stories about the private life of Lord Triesman, the then
chairman of the Football Association and leader of England's bid to stage the
2018 World Cup. The story was an assault clearly timed to destabilise the
England bid, his people said, and Gary, as an ambassador for the campaign, was
not going to stand for it. Off he went to Wapping, and the News of the World.

Which since his arrival has shown itself to be a true supporter of the England
cause as Capello's men prepare for vital qualifying matches in the European
championship. On 8 August, the day Lineker's first column appeared, the front
page said "Peter Crouch beds £800 teen hooker". And yesterday another fillip for
the team as they match up against the Swiss in Basel, later today: "Cheating Roo
beds hooker," it said. Both stories may eventually galvanise the team and
perhaps they will unite the disparate elements in the dressing room. Rooney will
indeed be in the starting lineup, we learn. But the News of the World should
have a care, if it is going to continue like this. On a point of principle, its
new star columnist may have to go somewhere else.

?Yes the News of the World should have a care, especially now Labour MPs are
fuming about the very idea that someone might have been listening in on their
voicemails. Yesterday we tried to remind ourselves of the paper's previous
website story headlined "News of the World cleared by PCC over hacking claims".
The darndest thing. It was no longer there.

?RTE Sport in the Irish Republic should have a care, too. For "Rooney available
to play away from home" is not the sort of headline anyone wants to see.
Unnecessary. Mischievous.

?A key day for our footballers, then. And a significant day for our MEPs, all of
whom will be forced for the first time today to clock in electronically for a
debate on the state of the European Union. If they don't clock in, they will not
be able to claim any allowances. Political group leaders in Strasbourg say they
are fed up with TV shots of empty seats in the parliamentary chamber and
conclude that the best way to get the attention of the stragglers is to
jeopardise their earnings. As a comment on the state of the European parliament,
what more is there to say?

?To little too late, perhaps. For who can forget the antics of our dear friend
the former Ukip talisman and subsequent benefit fraudster, Ashley Mote. Once,
under the watchful gaze of his elected colleagues, he entered a committee
meeting at the European parliament and signed the attendance book, thus
guaranteeing his right to claim. Before the ink was dry, he left.

?A tale of two elections now, for there once was an irritant called Ken, and
when the Labour party decided that it didn't want him as its candidate for mayor
in London, its brightest minds got together to prevent him winning the
nomination. But something didn't work out. Ken, as we know, won the mayoralty.
Served two terms. Time passed and lessons were learned, but maybe not the right
ones: for on Saturday, east London politician Lutfur Rahman, having resorted to
m'learned friends and the likes of Operation Black Vote to force Labour to allow
him into the contest, romped home to win the nomination to become the party's
mayoral candidate in Tower Hamlets. And the title of our tale: another fine
mess.

?But it's not all bad, for Labour is doing quite well without a leader. And last
week, party researchers won the annual parliamentary rounders match, beating
their counterparts in the governing coalition 7-0. Some see great significance
in this: not just the scale of the party's victory but also the fact that the
coalition team was completely lacking Liberal Democrats. The beginning of the
end? The end of the beginning? Who knows? Still, a win is a win.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: September 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     September 6, 2010 Monday 10:32 PM GMT

The BBC officially regards Eurosceptics as mad

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 428 words


There's a fascinating snippet in Rod Liddle's column today (secured behind the
fastness of the Times paywall). He writes of being summoned to see his boss at
the BBC following a complaint about the Corporation's bias against Eurosceptics.
The complaint had been made by Lord Pearson of Rannoch, then a Tory peer. Rod
writes:

The [BBC] panjandrum listened to my nervous musings and then held aloft Lord
Pearson's latest letter and said: "Rod, you do realise that these people are
mad?"

See how the concept of insanity has been redefined by our state broadcaster?
Malcolm Pearson was, and is, the most decent of men. Instead of raging publicly
against the BBC, he had set out, politely and patiently, to convince it that it
could do better. To this end, he employed a professional firm to monitor all BBC
current affairs programming over a period of six months.Its methodology was
thorough and empirical. It measured, to the second, how much airtime was given
to enthusiasts for closer integration, how much to soft sceptics, and how much
to opponents of EU membership. It looked at the background clips, and at the
remarks of presenters. Its conclusion - as I well remember, having been involved
with the project - was inescapable. The BBC was consistently biased against
Eurosceptics, not only in the sense of rarely inviting them on air but - more
insidiously - in the sense of casting them as eccentrics.

Malcolm was perhaps nave in believing that his findings would be enough to
induce a culture shift within the Beeb. But "mad"? If so, then the 55 per cent
of British voters who, according to the BBC's own opinion poll, want to leave
the EU, must be dribbling loons.

To be fair, the BBC did start to include anti-Brussels voices in its broadcasts
after the Pearson exercise - whether because it genuinely recognised that it was
in the wrong or, as Rod's anecdote would suggest, simply to get us psychotics
off its back. But anyone who thinks that the Beeb is now neutral on the issue of
European integration need only compare its coverage of UKIP and the Greens.

Most bias takes the form of opinions being presented as fact - a process which
is, almost by definition, unconscious. If you begin from the belief that EU
membership is vital to Britain's prosperity - if you regard this as a datum,
rather than an arguable proposition - your coverage of the European question is
bound to seem biased to the 55 per cent who disagree. They, in turn, will strike
you as people who cannot accept objective reality - in other words, as mad.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               September 5, 2010
                                 First Edition

'A Journey' - The verdicts;
OPINIONS

BYLINE: Interviews by Andrew Johnson, Pavan Amara, Daniel Read and Rachel
Shields

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 607 words


"One of the most surprising aspects was the revelation that Blair was so wounded
when Sir John Chilcot [during the inquiry into the Iraq war] asked him if he had
any expression of regret - he said he did not. It seems that it's been eating
away at him. That section of his book reveals a man of no real confidence,
gnawed away by his own insecurities."

PROFESSOR PHILIPPE SANDS

Human rights lawyer and author

"He's twisting in the wind of his own actions. He can never say he made a
mistake [over Iraq] because the loss of life was so extreme. My experience with
the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in South Africa showed me that very few
who carried out killings were able to accept what they'd done, because to
understand what you've done is to live with it, and it's such a burden."

GILLIAN SLOVO

Novelist and daughter of Joe Slovo, leader of the South African Communist Party
during apartheid

"It strikes me that a man who took us to war to get rid of a leader he didn't
like was prepared to leave this country in the hands of a man he didn't think
should be its leader."

SUE SMITH

Mother of Private Phillip Hewett who died in Iraq

"This stuff about Gordon Brown losing the election - what rubbish. The reason
Labour lost is because everyone was so disgusted by Iraq. He seems totally
uncontrite."

KATHARINE HAMNETT

Fashion designer

"He's honest about the unseemly way he went about attempting to take over from
John Smith. At the time it almost seemed like a coup in the Labour Party, and
that's what it was."

JEREMY HARDY

Comedian

"I was shocked that he regrets bringing in the Freedom of Information Act, one
of the few progressive measures for which he deserves to be praised."

GEORGE MONBIOT

Environmentalist and founder of the Arrest Blair campaign

"What he said about the Queen has such unpleasant connotations. If he learnt
things about her through one-to-ones, then he should have kept that to himself.
It is sacrosanct and absolutely confidential."

DR RICHARD TAYLOR

Former independent MP

"I'm surprised he's so warm about [former American president George] Bush. Blair
naively went in with America. He slipped into the pocket of Bush, which is
astonishing considering they're from two different political platforms."

LORD RAMSBOTHAM

Retired general and former chief inspector of prisons

"He couldn't just rerun Hansard for his autobiography; he had to spice it up,
and admitting he had a few glasses of wine at the end of the day does that."

ANN CRYER

Former Labour MP

"I was most surprised about the revelations about drink. He speaks with a
particular honesty on that and really little else."

ANTHONY SELDON

Tony Blair's biographer and master of Wellington College

"He's sorry for the loss of life caused by the war in Iraq, but he's not sorry
for starting the war that led to the loss of life."

GRAHAM KNIGHT

Father of Ben Knight who died in Afghanistan in 2006

"The most surprising thing is that it is already being remaindered for half
price at WH Smith in Paddington Station. It confirms that Blair was more show
than substance."

CHRISTOPHER MONCKTON

Deputy leader, Ukip

"I think it's about the self-justification of a highly disturbed individual who
alters the world to fit his world-view."

ALEXEI SAYLE

Comedian and author

"Why's he talking about private matters? He's obviously got a very unhappy sex
life if he has to bring back all the memories. If that's the problem, he has the
money to get some therapy, but please don't tell us about it."

TESSA SANDERSON

Former Olympic athlete

"I don't think he will surprise anyone; what he will be remembered for is the
war and it's something that he can't escape from."

TONY BENN

Former Labour cabinet minister, left

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               September 5, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Justice is not served by the European Arrest Warrant;
To the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 513 words


SIR - How misguided can the authorities be when it comes to that wide-embracing
legal instrument, the European Arrest Warrant (report, August 29)? Conceived
under the last government as a counterterrorist measure, it has made ordinary
British citizens insecure and unsafe, by placing British justice at the mercy of
the lowest common denominator within a large group of judicial systems, the
standards of which ministers have no possible way of guaranteeing.

Rather than having an agreed list of serious offences to which the warrant can
be applied, there is a broad criterion which allows it to be activated for any
offence that is punishable in the requesting state with imprisonment for a term
of three years or more.

The more arbitrary a state's judicial system, the more likely it is to impose
custodial sentences for minor offences, even though such conduct may not even
constitute an offence at all in Britain.

Yet we have agreed to allow such systems to prevail over the rights fought for
and refined over centuries in this country, removing safeguards from its own
citizens.

Serena Wylde London SW15

SIR - Graham Watson, the Liberal Democrat MEP and "Godfather" of the European
Arrest Warrant, consistently states: "It has brought justice to the perpetrators
of murder, rape and terrorism."

It is a pity for the innocent victims of the European Arrest Warrant that nobody
seems to have told Mr Watson - or Nick Clegg - that the primary purpose of legal
systems is to protect people from random arrest, not to have them locked up
without trial on flimsy evidence.

The Earl of Dartmouth MEP (Ukip) Brussels

SIR - The Sunday Telegraph has carried some frightening stories detailing how
innocent British citizens are being extradited and detained in foreign jails for
long periods, for offences that are either very minor or for which the evidence
is suspect or minimal.

David Cameron said before the election that he would be taking back powers from
the EU and restoring some British sovereignty.

What should we deduce from his silence?

Andy Bebbington Stone, Staffordshire

SIR - David Owen (Letters, August 29) writes that "our courts have no means of
monitoring - or intervening in - the process" of extradition under the European
Arrest Warrant "no matter how little evidence there is".

They have: our courts could reject applications for extradition which, although
presumably contrary to European law, could be seen as unconstitutional here -
forcing cases up to a higher court, including, if necessary, the Supreme Court.

That would require the EU authorities to pursue applications all the way,
thereby bringing the issue to the attention of a British public asleep to this
experiment in European unification in their starry-eyed belief that in order to
co-operate with others you have to be under their control.

Then the pressure on our politicians in Parliament to have the courage, for
which Harry Randall asks in his letter (August 29), to repeal the European
Communities Act will be intensified to the point where they could well find
some.

Stanley Eckersley Pudsey, West Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: September 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 5, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Immigration curbs are vital for Britain's future;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 411 words


DOMINIC LAWSON ("How Tories regret the immigration promise", Comment, last week)
was right about the need for welfare reform but failed to grasp the significance
of the present mass immigration for our society as a whole.

The reality is that we either integrate or we disintegrate, and integration is
quite simply impossible with a migrant arriving every minute.

Our population is on course for 70m in 20 years. Not all current economic
migrants are essential. Why, for example, are we allowing every year about
25,000 foreign graduates of British universities to stay on for two years
competing for jobs against British graduates who face a nearly 10% unemployment
rate? Nor is immigration the long-term answer to skills shortages, as the CBI
itself recognises.

Net immigration from the European Union has averaged about 27,000 a year over
the past five years while flows to and from the new east European members are
coming into balance. This means that EU migration is only about 15% of net
foreign migration. The long-term pressures will come from the Third World where
tough action is needed on bogus students and marriages designed to circumvent
immigration controls. We have a government committed to reducing net
immigration. All strength to their arm. Sir Andrew Green Chairman,
Migrationwatch UK Border control Lawson is right to describe the Conservatives'
pledge to "cap immigration" as "fraudulent". So long as the UK remains a member
of the EU, so long will we have open borders. The Conservatives' pledge is even
more fraudulent because they (together with Labour and the Liberal Democrats)
support seven new countries joining the EU - including Turkey. That gives
another 100m-plus the absolute right to work, live and settle here.

William Dartmouth MEP UK Independence party Making a contribution Lawson writes
that the government will tell companies at some stage that they've exceeded
their allocation for highly skilled foreign employees. It's already happened. I
work for a high-tech, multinational research-and-development laboratory in
Cambridge. We hired a researcher from outside the EU last month and have been
told that our quota (of one) through March 2011 has been reached.

The lab has 40 researchers doing world-leading, highly specialised research for
which we need to be able to attract the most talented individuals. As Lawson
noted, these are well-paid positions and the holders are net contributors to the
UK economy.

Kate Gales Cambridge

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 5, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Immigration curbs are vital for Britain's future;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 600 words


DOMINIC LAWSON ("How Tories regret the immigration promise", Comment Online,
last week) was right about the need for welfare reform but he seems to have
entirely failed to grasp the significance of the present mass immigration for
our society as a whole.

The reality is that we either integrate or we disintegrate, and integration is
quite simply impossible with a migrant arriving every minute. The latest figures
for net immigration confirm that the UK population is on course for 70m in 20
years and 80m in mid-century.

We must get immigration under control and economic migration must play its part.
Not all current economic migrants are essential. Why, for example, are we
allowing every year about 25,000 foreign graduates of British universities to
stay on for two years competing for jobs against British graduates who face a
nearly 10% unemployment rate? Nor is immigration the long-term answer to skills
shortages, as the CBI itself recognises.

Net immigration from the European Union has averaged only about 27,000 a year
over the past five years while flows to and from the new east European members
are coming into balance. This means that EU migration is only about 15% of net
foreign migration. The long-term pressures will come from the Third World where
tough action is needed on bogus students and marriages designed to circumvent
immigration controls.

The public feels helpless.

They want action. For the first time we have a government committed to a clear
objective to reduce net immigration. All strength to their arm.

Sir Andrew Green Chairman, Migrationwatch UK Border control Lawson is right to
describe the Conservatives' pledge to "cap immigration" as "fraudulent". So long
as the UK remains a member of the EU, so long will we have open borders.

The Conservatives' pledge is even more fraudulent because they (together with
Labour and the Liberal Democrats) support seven new countries joining the EU -
including and especially Turkey.

That gives another 100mplus people the absolute right to work, live and settle
in the United Kingdom.

William Dartmouth MEP UK Independence party Making a contribution Lawson writes
that the government will tell companies at some stage that they've exceeded
their allocation for highly skilled foreign employees. It's already happened.

I work for a high-tech, multinational research-anddevelopment laboratory in
Cambridge. We hired a researcher from outside the EU last month and have been
told that our quota (of one) through March 2011 has been reached.

The lab has about 40 researchers doing worldleading and highly specialised
research for which we need to be able to attract the most talented individuals.

As Lawson noted, these are well-paid positions and the holders are net
contributors to the UK economy.

Kate Gales Cambridge Skills shortage Non-EU (ie insular, non-English-speaking,
nonintegrating) immigration is a problem, but so are qualified foreign
engineers. If we import skilled labour when there are millions on benefit here,
the problem will never be addressed. Companies must do their own training and
our hopeless education system needs to supply students who have the basic skills
to undertake this training.

While we continue to award exam passes in French to those who know only 20
French words, and 2:1 biology degrees to students who cannot work out
percentages, we will remain in trouble. I used to interview candidates with a
pass in GCSE maths who could not subtract 278 from 352 using a pen and paper.

Unfortunately, Michael Gove seems to be as incapable as Ed Balls of sorting this
out. Paul Wilson Brighton, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               September 5, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

'Make a mint' MEP in expenses inquiry

BYLINE: Jon Ungoed-Thomas; Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 742 words


AN MEP who claimed that politicians could make "half a million" from five years
in the European parliament faces an official investigation into her expenses.

A whistleblower has come forward to allege that Nikki Sinclaire, 42, a former
UKIP leadership candidate, regularly claimed nearly £840 for driving the 1,200
miles from her home in Birmingham to the parliament in Strasbourg.

According to the whistleblower she travelled by plane, which for a round trip
can cost as little as £260. It is alleged she pocketed the difference, a
"profit" of as much as £500. It is also claimed the car for which she claimed
the expenses was not even roadworthy.

The allegations have been made by one of Sinclaire's former employees who has
complained to the West Midlands police and OLAF, the European anti-fraud office.
Sinclaire, who has lost the UKIP whip, denies the allegations and says she is
the victim of a campaign. She said yesterday she was referring the matter to
OLAF for investigation.

The controversy comes despite increased scrutiny of politicians' expenses
following scandals in Brussels and Westminster. A secret report into MEPs'
expenses in 2008 found "extensive, widespread and criminal abuse" of allowances
worth almost £100m a year.

The whistleblower alleges Sinclaire claimed for the Strasbourg trip on at least
five occasions since last November. The Sunday Times has seen documents which
show that she travelled by plane at least once.

The MEP for the West Midlands submitted a signed claim for a car trip to
Strasbourg in her N-Reg Ford Galaxy on January 18, when it is alleged the car
did not have an MoT certificate.It was later scrapped.

An £85 ferry ticket on Norfolkline was also purchased, which had to be submitted
to support the claim. She was paid ¤1,005 (£838) in expenses.

In fact, Sinclaire flew from Heathrow to Basel. A boarding card reveals she
returned on January 21. The return flight cost just £263.

"There was even a courtesy car from the European parliament to pick up her from
Basel," said a source. "The claim in her expenses that she drove there and back
in her Ford Galaxy is totally wrong."

Sinclaire is a controversial figure. She took UKIP to court after being sacked
as a head office manager in 2001. She then took legal action in 2003 to overturn
her disqualification from the party's national executive committee.

She also had the whip withdrawn this year after claiming that a group to which
UKIP was affiliated contained racist and extremist elements.

Sources in Sinclaire's office claim she was frank about the huge sums that could
be made from the European parliament. In a clip on YouTube she says: "If you
play the system right, in five years as an MEP you can make half a million
clear."

Besides the allegedly false travel claims, police and OLAF are being asked to
investigate irregular payments to her staff. It is claimed that a 17-year-old
working an 18-hour week in Sinclaire's Birmingham office was being paid £2,500 a
month - equivalent to £34.70p an hour.

Sinclaire said last week she had been critical of UKIP's finances and her own
were audited. She said she had never submitted any claim fraudulently, but if
errors had been made money would be paid back. Her comments about making money
while in parliament had been taken out of context, she said.

The MEP said that on the January trip she had flown to Basel, although she
admitted the expenses form and pay docket appeared to show she had claimed for
mileage and a trip on a ferry. She admitted that a ferry ticket had been
purchased in her name but could not recall buying it.

She said one possible explanation was that she might have changed her plans at
the last minute. An inaccurate claim might then have been drawn up by her
office.

"If I've taken some money that I was not due to have because of a mistake, then
I will reimburse it," she said.

She denied regularly claiming for mileage to Strasbourg when she was in fact
flying. She said she could not comment on the amount paid to her staff but some
staff members might receive inflated wages in one month that were related to
extra work on a specific project.

Despite a clampdown on expenses claims after a series of scandals, MEPs can
still claim a generous range of allowances. They have £76,000 annual salaries
and staff and office allowances worth £210,000.

The source who complained to West Midlands police said officers wanted OLAF to
check the documents. A police spokesman declined to comment.

LOAD-DATE: September 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Extracts from Sinclaire's office travel accounts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 996 words


LET US PRAY FOR POOR OLD SALISBURY SOULS

ONE unexpected detail in Tony Blair's memoirs is his repeated claim to be a
reader of Anthony Trollope. What hay the great Anthony , celebrated for his
portrayal of sulphurous women , could have made with Cherie Blair, Carole Caplin
and tanned Tony's smouldering assistant Ruth Turner.

Trollope might also have enjoyed the quest for a new Bishop of Salisbury. Low
behaviour is being alleged, with some Wiltshire churchgoers fearing a conspiracy
to insert a happy-clappy.

Salisbury's diocesan submission to the Archbishop of Canterbury's appointments
secretary is a horrifying document, packed with managerial gibberish,
modernising buzzwords such as 'challenge' and 'strategy' and 'diversity'.

Bossy bullet points abound. Liturgy is not mentioned once.

The clear impression is that the cathedral authorities are desperate for a
bishop who will pursue a downmarket, politically correct regime.

Salisbury has more Prayer Book Society members than any other diocese in the
kingdom. The local community is packed with bookish, intelligent souls. Yet its
cathedral has just one short service a week (11.15 am Thursdays, impossible for
anyone who works) from the Book of Common Prayer. Madness.

One Salisbury traditionalist who attended the public meeting about the episcopal
appointment , it was held in a happy-clappy church , speaks of being made to
'feel horribly like an outcast'.

Some blame the last bishop, David Stancliffe, a soapy proselytiser in the grip
of go-ahead ideas. Others speak darkly of his friend the Dean of Salisbury, June
Osborne, a former social scientist who is married to a QC.

Beady-eyed Mrs Osborne is, I am told, a figure straight from Peter Simple. She
is seldom happier than when warbling 'Shine Jesus Shine' to the rattle of
tambourines and evangelical whoops. Increasingly, these ricochet off empty pews.

Prince Charles, a fine Prayer Book man, has, in the past, helped raise millions
for Salisbury Cathedral. He must wonder now if it was worth the effort.

LADY P GETS MY VOTE!

LORD Pearson's resignation as leader of UKIP is sad. He was endearingly honest
(admitting he was 'not much good'), and we will miss his wife Caroline (pictured
right). Blonde, coltish Lady P was Ukip's candidate in Kensington at the general
election.

She even cast aside the crime novel she was reading in order to wade through the
Ukip manifesto. Now, that's devotion.

She also bought a brunette wig. Why? 'In case I was spotted playing tennis at
Queen's, rather than canvassing.

'Actually, instead of playing at Queen's with the wig, I went to play with a
charming Jamaican called Milton down the Walworth Road.'

We need more of this amateur spirit in politics.

THE cultural Left lost a big wicket this week when Ekow Eshun said he was
quitting as artistic director of the state-funded Institute of Contemporary
Arts.

Not before time. Mr Eshun, a minor magazine journalist who was appointed under
New Labour, was a short-termist who deplored traditional artistic disciplines as
'silos'.

In his time, the ICA's finances ailed. Last year it needed a 61.2 million
bail-out from public money. Punchy art magazine Jackdaw is now calling for the
ICA to be closed. It calls it 'functionally redundant'.

It goes on to question the future management of London's ridiculously
fashion-conscious Serpentine Gallery.

Also, why does the Tate Gallery, run

6165,000-a-year Sir Nicholas Serota, have 16 directors?

Culture Secretary Jeremy Hunt should chop away here to his heart's content.

MUM'S HOLY WRIT

NEVER tangle with a mother-of-the-bride, as a BBC Four programme about churches
learned.

Jonathan Mayo, producer of Churches: How To Read Them, says: 'We were filming on
a Friday in a beautiful country church in Sussex and had just been let in

the vicar.

'There was to be a wedding the next day. Suddenly, the Mother-of-the-Bride
appeared in full sail, all ready to do the flowers. We said we were filming a
Very Important And Substantial Documentary and asked her to come back later.'

Oh dear. While the vicar 'quickly made himself scarce', the ensuing scene would
not have disgraced The Hound Of The Baskervilles. Growls, flashed eyes, a
savaging. Result: one camera crew was left cowering in a corner of the church,
darting out for the occasional bit of filming every time Mother-of-the-Bride
took a rest from the flower arrangements.

ONE doesn't want to upset England's bid to hold the 2018 World Cup, but would
Fifa pay British tax on profits it made from the tournament? Lord Corbett (Lab)
claims Fifa did not pay any tax on profits in South Africa this summer.
Replying, the Government's Lord Shutt merely says that this is a 'tricky'
matter.

DOES the Pope know what is about to hit him in Britain? One of those lined up to
meet him, twice, is comedian Frank Carson. Big Frank, whose wonderful generosity
to charities earned him a knighthood of St Gregory, is an irrepressible fountain
of filth.

This week, he told me four quite unrepeatable jokes.

Frank promises to try to behave in the Pontiff's presence, but if we see
Benedict XVI blushing like a radish and gasping for breath amid laughter, we
will know that Carson has struck!

SALLY THE ALLY'S GOT A NERVE

THE peace of a Herefordshire morning , sun glinting off the gossamer, swallows
gathering for the off , was shattered yesterday

squawks from Radio 4.

Pushy Sally Bercow, wife of the Commons Squeaker, was jawing about the William
Hague story. In the shouty tones of our urban brahmin , every one a meeja expert
, she claimed that Mr Hague had been given 'duff PR advice' to disclose intimate
details of his life in order to see off media attacks.

This is something 'Sally the Alley' would never do herself, of course. Just a
few months ago, in a newspaper interview, she blurted out excruciating details
of her past. We heard that she had drunk like a dolphin and copulated like a
bonobo monkey. The Speaker's wife is now treated

bien pensants as a saint. Enough to make one want to join the swallows and
migrate.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage in frame to be Ukip leader;
InBrief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 40 words


Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party MEP, has confirmed he is standing for
the party's leadership. He led the party before standing down to concentrate on
an ill-fated effort to oust the Commons Speaker, John Bercow, at the general
election.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday

National: Farage to stand again in Ukip leadership contest

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrow

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 294 words


Nigel Farage said yesterday that he would stand again for the leadership of the
United Kingdom Independence party.

The MEP made the announcement at Ukip's autumn conference, taking place in
Torquay, Devon.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch decided last month to stand down as leader on the
grounds that he believes he is "not much good at party politics".

Farage told The World At One on BBC Radio 4: "I have invested the best part of
my adult political life in helping to try to build up this movement and I am far
from perfect but I do think I am able, through the media, to deliver a good,
simple, understandable message. I believe I can lead this party from the front
as a campaigning organisation."

Farage led Ukip until last year, when he stood down in order to concentrate on
his attempt to oust John Bercow as the MP for Buckingham. His campaign was a
failure - he came third, more than 14,000 votes behind Bercow, and suffered
serious injuries when he was involved in a plane crash on polling day.

Pearson, a former Conservative, was widely mocked during the general election
campaign after admitting on television that he could not answer detailed
questions about his election manifesto. Farage is the favourite to replace
Pearson, although other candidates are also standing. The results of the contest
will be announced in November.

The MEP said last month that he would stand for the leadership if he believed he
had recovered from his injuries.

Earlier yesterday Ukip's interim leader, Jeffrey Titford, predicted on BBC Radio
4's Today programme that the party would eventually win a Westminster seat. He
said: "We will get there in the end, don't you worry."

Titford said his party was drawing support from a wide political spectrum, not
just disaffected Conservatives.

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           September 4, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Faith in Brussels collapses over economy

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 408 words


Support for the European Union has plummeted to its lowest level for seven years
across the Continent as the economic crisis triggers a loss of trust in
Brussels.

While faith in the EU is at rock bottom in Britain it is the loss of confidence
in Germany, a founder member and the main source of funding for the 27 nations,
which will worry eurocrats the most.

Fewer than half of Europeans, 49 per cent, view the EU as a good thing and, in a
separate poll, 53 per cent think that their country has benefited from
membership despite the billions of euros redistributed from richer to poorer
nations.

There was also a devastating verdict from Iceland, where the Government has
applied to join the EU after the island's banking collapse but where only 19 per
cent of people polled said that they viewed membership as a good thing.

The survey comes as the EU is struggling to hold its own on the world stage
after being bypassed by the Americans and Chinese at the climate summit in
Copenhagen, and after appointing two relative unknowns to represent it -
Britain's Baroness Ashton of Upholland and Belgium's Herman Van Rompuy.

"There is a sea change taking place right across the Continent because people do
not want centralised, undemocratic control from Brussels," Nigel Farage, the
former leader of UKIP, said. "The biggest rises in disenchantment are in Greece
and Germany. Greece is trapped in an economic prison and Germany is paying the
bill - is it any wonder that discontent is spreading?" José Manuel Barroso, the
President of the European Commission, this week appeared to accuse member
nations for its declining popularity, blaming Brussels for setbacks and taking
credit for successes.

"I admit that we should do more together in order to give confidence to citizens
and consumers. But we won't solve the problems unless each nation sees the
European project as its own," Mr Barroso told an Italian newspaper.

Analysts said that the EU was suffering from a triple blow - a feeling that
Europe was in decline as a world player, antagonism to global forces such as
immigration during tough economic times and a concern at the loss of powers to
Brussels at a time when each nation wanted to take its own protectionist
measures.

Hugo Brady, of the Centre for European Reform, said: "I have never known the EU
not to be in some kind of crisis but trust in politicians is extremely low and
it is probably coming home to people that Europe is in decline."

LOAD-DATE: September 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Greeks protest against the EU austerity measures

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 3, 2010 Friday

Now EU may give Gaddafi £4bn to stop immigration

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 589 words


SENIOR Eurocrats are considering a demand from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi for
billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash to halt the flow of illegal immigrants
from Africa, it emerged last night.

The maverick dictator was accused of "extortion" earlier this week after calling
for £4.1billion a year from the EU to stop immigration "turning Europe black".
But astonishingly, EU officials confirmed yesterday his proposal is being taken
seriously.

Matthew Newman, EU spokesman, said: "There is great scope to develop cooperation
with Libya on migration."

Other sources confirmed talks between diplomats in Brussels and Tripoli have
been scheduled.

Critics were last night furious that the move could mean British taxpayers'
money being handed to the Libyan government.

And the timing of the move is seen as particularly insensitive following the
outcry over the freedom enjoyed by Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Al Megrahi in
Tripoli following his controversial release last year from a Scottish jail on
compassionate grounds.

Dictator

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Nigel Farage said: "British taxpayers should not
be paying a penny towards this Arab dictator, particularly after the release of
the Lockerbie bomber.

"The EU appears to be adopting Labour's open-door policy to immigration control.
Eurocrats want to fling open borders and force us to pay for the privilege."

Vincenzo Scarpetta, of the Eurosceptic think-tank Open Europe, said: "There is a
strong case to be made for cooperating with countries outside Europe to address
illegal immigration.

"But handing over billions of taxpayers' cash to a dictator in exchange for a
vague promise to stem migration flows is probably not the best idea -
particularly as Colonel Gaddafi would find it difficult to deliver on this
promise even if he wanted to."

Gaddafi's call for cash to cut the flow of migrants over the Mediterranean came
in a theatrical visit to Rome this week.

In a speech attended by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, the
67-year-old dictator said: "Italy needs to convince her European allies to
accept this Libyan proposal: five billion euros to Libya to stop illegal
immigration.

"Europe runs the risk of turning black from illegal immigration, it could turn
into Africa.

"We need support from the European Union to stop this army trying to get across
from Libya, which is their entry point. There is a dangerous level of
immigration from Africa into Europe and we don't know what will happen.

"What will be the reaction of the white Christian Europeans to this mass of
hungry uneducated Africans? We don't know if Europe will remain a cohesive
continent or if it will be destroyed by barbarian invasion. We have to imagine
this could happen but before it does we need to work together."

Italy, frequently the first landing place for Africans who make the risky sea
crossing, is co-operating closely with Libya already. Italian patrol boats are
rounding up many migrants at sea and depositing them in Libya.

Italian foreign minister Franco Frattini claimed: "Europe needs to finally get a
migration policy, giving plenty of funds to the migrants' countries of origin
and helping transit countries facing a huge burden."

A confidential report from EU border officials leaked earlier this week reckoned
900,000 illegal immigrants a year enter the EU.

Q Should Gaddafi be given EU cash?

YES: 0901 030 8346

NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088

No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: African immigrants stopped at sea are being taken to Libya
Picture: STUART MASON
Colonel Gaddafi made demand in a speech in Rome

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            September 3, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now EU may give Gaddafi GBP 4bn to stop immigration

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 587  words


SENIOR Eurocrats are considering a demand from Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafifor
billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash to halt the flow of illegal immigrants
from Africa, it emerged last night.

The maverick dictator was accused of "extortion" earlier this week after calling
for GBP 4.1billion a year from the EU to stop immigration "turning Europe
black".

But astonishingly, EU officials confirmed yesterday his proposal is being taken
seriously.

Matthew Newman, EU spokesman, said: "There is great scope to develop cooperation
with Libya on migration."

Other sources confirmed talks between diplomats in Brussels and Tripoli have
been scheduled.

Critics were last night furious that the move could mean British taxpayers'
money being handed to the Libyan government.

And the timing of the move is seen as particularly insensitive following the
outcry over the freedom enjoyed by Lockerbie bomber Abdelbaset Al Megrahi in
Tripoli following his controversial release last year from a Scottish jail on
compassionate grounds.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "British taxpayers should not
be paying a penny towards this Arab dictator, particularly after the release of
the Lockerbie bomber.

"The EU appears to be adopting Labour's open-door policy to immigration control.
Eurocrats want to fling open borders and force us to pay for the privilege."

Vincenzo Scarpetta, of the Eurosceptic think-tank Open Europe, said: "There is a
strong case to be made for cooperating with countries outside Europe to address
illegal immigration.

"But handing over billions of taxpayers' cash to a dictator in exchange for a
vague promise to stem migration flows is probably not the best idea -
particularly as Colonel Gaddafi would find it difficult to deliver on this
promise even if he wanted to."

Gaddafi's call for cash to cut the flow of migrants over the Mediterranean came
in a theatrical visit to Rome this week.

In a speech attended by Italian Prime Minister Silvio Berlusconi, the
67-year-old dictator said:

"Italy needs to convince her European allies to accept this Libyan proposal:
five billion euros to Libya to stop illegal immigration.

"Europe runs the risk of turning black from illegal immigration, it could turn
into Africa.

"We need support from the European Union to stop this army trying to get across
from Libya, which is their entry point. There is a dangerous level of
immigration from Africa into Europe and we don't know what will happen.

"What will be the reaction of the white Christian Europeans to this mass of
hungry uneducated Africans? We don't know if Europe will remain a cohesive
continent or if it will be destroyed by barbarian invasion. We have to imagine
this could happen but before it does we need to work together."

Italy, frequently the first landing place for Africans who make the risky sea
crossing, is co-operating closely with Libya already.

Italian patrol boats are rounding up many migrants at sea and depositing them in
Libya.

Italian foreign minister Franco Frattini claimed: "Europe needs to finally get a
migration policy, giving plenty of funds to the migrants' countries of origin
and helping transit countries facing a huge burden."

A confidential report from EU border officials leaked earlier this week reckoned
900,000 illegal immigrants a year enter the EU.

QShould Gaddafibe given EU cash?

YES: 0901 030 8346 NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088 No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: African immigrants stopped at sea are being taken to Libya Colonel
Gaddafi made demand in a speech in Rome

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            September 3, 2010 Friday

Nigel Farage to stand for Ukip leadership again

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 241 words

ABSTRACT

MEP had led party until standing down last year to campaign to oust John Bercow
and become MP for Buckingham

FULL TEXT

Nigel Farage today said he would stand again for the leadership of the United
Kingdom Independence party.

The MEP made the announcement at Ukip's autumn conference, taking place in
Torquay, Devon.

A leadership contest has been triggered by Lord Pearson of Rannoch's decision
last month to stand down as leader on the grounds that he believes he is "not
much good at party politics".

Explaining why he felt he should get the job, Farage said: "I'm far from
perfect, but I do think I'm able, through the media, to deliver a a good,
simple, understandable message and I believe I can lead this party from the
front as a campaigning organisation."

Farage led Ukip until last year, when he stood down to allow him to concentrate
on his attempt to oust John Bercow and be elected as the MP for Buckingham.

But his campaign was a failure - he came third, more than 14,000 votes behind
Bercow, and suffered serious injuries when he was involved in a plane crash on
polling day.

Pearson, a former Conservative, was widely mocked during the general election
campaign after the then leader admitted in a television interview that he could
not answer detailed questions about his election manifesto.

Farage is favourite to replace Pearson, although other candidates are also
standing. The results of the contest will be announced in November.

LOAD-DATE: September 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           September 2, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Alien rule of law;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 261 words


SIR - William Hague (Comment, August 31) says that strong institutions and the
rule of law "take a long time to build and must be constantly nurtured".

Should he not, therefore, express concern that more than 1,000 British citizens
have been sent abroad under the European Arrest Warrant? He must also be aware
of the extent to which British sovereignty was signed away in the Lisbon Treaty,
how our rule of law, the great British tradition of habeas corpus, has gone and
how, as EU citizens, we are now subject to European law, the Code Napoleon.

If this is what being an EU citizen means, I for one would rather be out of it.
Michael Gardner Tadcaster, North Yorkshire SIR - William Hague shows his keen
sense of irony by saying that human rights are key to British foreign policy,
one week after cutting the budget on human rights monitoring by £560,000.

"Foreign policy is domestic policy written large," he suggests. Yes, but to a
large extent, foreign policy is now written by the European Union, and Mr Hague
supports the funding of the EU's External Action Service in which 100 EU
diplomats earn more each year than he does.

While the Government cheer leads the closure of British embassies around the
globe (accompanied by the opening of EU embassies in their place), and supports
an EU voice at the UN to the detriment of British interests, Mr Hague cannot
speak of defending a British foreign policy, nor a British domestic policy,
while such a huge proportion of laws are made in Brussels and rubber-stamped by
his Government. Nigel Farage MEP (Ukip) Brussels

LOAD-DATE: September 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday

DIARY

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1063 words


PRINCE Charles has joked about standing as a candidate in any presidential
election. Former Labour MP Chris Mullin makes the disclosure in the new edition
of his diaries.

In it he recalls visiting Charles at Clarence House in May 2009. 'A couple of
brief exchanges with HRH,' writes Mullin. 'He remarked that he had recently
encountered a woman who shouted: "Abolish the monarchy", and had only just
restrained himself from replying: "Fine, then I can run for president.'' '

Mullin thinks well of the idea, observing: 'One can't help feeling that he would
prefer that to being king. In the current climate he'd walk it and then at least
he would have a mandate.' The diaries also record a trip to Highgrove, where
Mullin is struck

the many garden tributes.

'Everywhere little memorials, busts of friends, of the Prince himself and in a
glade among the trees a delicate sculpture of the murdered daughters of the
Tsar; there is even a little memorial to a dead dog. Only one glaring omission:
Diana. Of her, no mention.'

THROUGH all the tribulations of a turbulent life, including a torrid affair with
Gary Cooper, ill health, the loss of a daughter aged seven, and the break-up of
her marriage to writer Roald Dahl, Hollywood star Patricia Neal cherished the
Oscar she won for her performance in the 1963 film Hud.

Now, less than a month after her death from lung cancer at 84, I learn that her
treasured statuette will go to neither her troubled daughter Tessa nor to her
model granddaughter turned TV presenter Sophie Dahl (pictured), but to the
hospital named after her in America.

The actress , whose death triggered a feverish search for her will, had for
three decades supported the Patricia Neal Rehabilitation Centre for stroke
victims in Knoxville, Massachusetts, the town where she grew up. Her support was
prompted after she suffered three strokes at the age of 39 in 1965 and was in a
coma for three weeks, after which Patricia had to relearn how to walk and talk.

The Fort Sanders Regional Medical Centre in Knoxville later dedicated the
Patricia Neal Rehabilitation Centre in her honour and she appeared in
advertisements for it.

Says an aide at the hospital tactfully: 'We have been discussing with Ms Neal's
family which memorabilia items we may receive.' A family source says simply:
'They are getting the Oscar.'

DESPITE Scotland Yard chief Sir Paul Stephenson's talk of budget cuts, not all
his officers have got the austerity message. According to expenses claims
published

the Met, Deputy Commissioner Tim Godwin spent 691 on return rail travel
attending a chief constables' conference in Manchester on June 30. On the very
same day, Assistant Commissioner John Yates claimed 6148 for standard class
return rail travel to the same event. And what's this? Assistant Commissioner
Ian McPherson submitted a whopping 6399.99 for first class return rail travel to
the self-same gathering. Wouldn't it have been simpler, and a lot less
expensive, if they had shared a car?

NO doubt his writer grandmother, Dame Barbara Cartland, the queen of romantic
fiction, would have penned an altogether different outcome. For more than a year
after marrying for the first time at the age of 59, the Earl of Dartmouth and
his heiress wife Fiona have not yet moved in together.

The Old Etonian peer, an MEP for UKIP, and Fiona were married in a civil
ceremony at Haldon Belvedere, a folly near Exeter, during which he acknowledged
that he had left matrimony late. Australian-born Fiona, 57, a mother of three,
was previously married to tycoon Rupert Murdoch's nephew Matt Handbury,
nicknamed Down Under 'the man from Uncle'.

But friends of the couple say that their union is a rather curious one since
Fiona has yet to be permanently carried over the threshold, so to speak, of
William's grand London home, or indeed of his 67 million country house,
Whiteways in Devon which he shares with his mother, Raine, Countess Spencer ,
Princess Diana's stepmother.

While the arrangement has raised eyebrows among their pals, who have discussed
the possibility that it does not augur well, the couple may have perhaps found
the recipe for the perfect marriage , not separate beds but separate residences.

For Dartmouth tells me: 'Having married Fiona later in life we each had more
than one home. We are slowly consolidating. Indeed Fiona has now sold her home
in Sydney.' He adds: 'The consolidation has been made more complicated because
as of June last year, I have the honour to represent our country in the European
Parliament. But we are getting there.'

Handsome Dartmouth dated a string of beauties in his long bachelor days. His
last love before Fiona was TV producer Claire Kavanagh. That ended after a year,
and before Claire discovered she was pregnant. She later presented William with
a baby son, Gerald, who has taken his surname, Legge.

'It may seem unusual, but William and Fiona have been holidaying together this
summer in Spain, so it must work,' says a friend.

Having appointed fashion tycoon Sir Philip Green as his cost-cutting tsar, what
job, I wonder, might the prime minister offer another figure with the Midas
touch, Simon Cowell?

Shortly before their holiday in Cornwall, David and Samantha Cameron invited the
X Factor supremo for a small private supper, with supermodel Claudia Schiffer
among guests. The venue, Downing Street, however, is one property that Cowell,
always on the lookout for new homes, can't purchase.

The impresario, who owns a luxurious house in Beverly Hills and a 66 million
pile in Holland Park has, like Jemima Khan, been to view Pusey House, near
Faringdon, Oxfordshire, home of chocolate heiress Felicity Cadbury. A snip at
627 million, Simon . . .

PS Mariella Frostrup owes much of her success to her seductive voice. The
whisky-and- sex tones have taken the Oslo-born blonde from lowly record company
pr girl to 6300,000-a-year broadcast star.

But now she says she would swap her distinctive timbre for an improvement to
another part of her anatomy. She says: 'It's like having beautiful legs or
something. You can take no pride in it. And I'd swap it for beautiful legs.

'Where does it come from? I've no idea.' When it was suggested that she, Honor
Blackman and Judi Dench are all possessed of 'scientifically perfect' voices,
Mariella says: 'Yes, but it's a composite of the three.On my own I'm only one
third perfect , which I've always suspected!'

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday

Gaddafi's £4bn migrant demand

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 461 words


MAVERICK Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi provoked outrage last night by demanding
£4.1billion a year from the EU to stop illegal immigration "turning Europe
black".

Colonel Gaddafi, in a speech in Italy, claimed his country needed the money for
security measures to stop thousands of Africans heading across the
Mediterranean.

Gaddafi's remarks, dismissed as blackmail last night, came on the last day of a
two-day visit to Italy which had already sparked controversy when he urged all
Europeans to convert to Islam and lectured 200 models and actresses on the
Muslim faith.

In his farewell speech in Rome, the 67-year-old dictator said: "Italy needs to
convince her European allies to accept this Libyan proposal: five billion euros
to Libya to stop illegal immigration. Europe runs the risk of turning black from
illegal immigration, it could turn into Africa.

"We need support from the European Union to stop this army trying to get across
from Libya, which is their entry point.

"At the moment there is a dangerous level of immigration from Africa into Europe
and we don't know what will happen.

"What will be the reaction of the white Christian Europeans to this mass of
hungry uneducated Africans?

"We don't know if Europe will remain an advanced and cohesive continent or if it
will be destroyed by this barbarian invasion.

"We have to imagine that this could happen but before it does we need to work
together."

In Britain, Conservative MP Daniel Kawczynski said: "Specific targeted measures
from Europe to assist North African countries to tackle migration would be a
good thing. But there should be no blank cheques. I would be appalled if the
British Government started handing out ludicrously large sums of money like
this."

Sir Andrew Green, of the pressure group Migrationwatch, said: "Cooperation with
Libya over illegal immigration to Europe is clearly very important but £4billion
sounds a bit steep."

And UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "This is blackmail from a
delusional dictator.

"It is outrageous that after calling for us all to convert to Islam, he is now
threatening to send us Africa's poor benighted masses."

Libya and Italy have already agreed a deal that allows the Italian navy to
intercept illegal immigrants and return them to Libya.

But the measure triggered criticism from the United Nations' Refugee Agency and
others.

Many illegal immigrants die in their attempts to cross the Mediterranean, and
those who are caught are taken back to camps in Libya where conditions are
appalling.

opinion: page 12

Q Has immigration reached danger level?

Yes: 0901 030 8342 Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

no: 0901 030 8343 no text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          September 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Gaddaf i's GBP 4bn migrant demand

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 434  words


MAVERICK Libyan leader Muammar Gaddafi provoked outrage last night by demanding
GBP 4.1billion a year from the EU to stop illegal immigration "turning Europe
black".

Colonel Gaddafi, in a speech in Italy, claimed his country needed the money for
security measures to stop thousands of Africans heading across the
Mediterranean.

Gaddafi's remarks, dismissed as blackmail last night, came on the last day of a
two-day visit to Italy which had already sparked controversy when he urged all
Europeans to convert to Islam and lectured 200 models and actresses on the
Muslim faith.

In his farewell speech in Rome, the 67-year-old dictator said: "Italy needs to
convince her European allies to accept this Libyan proposal: five billion euros
to Libya to stop illegal immigration. Europe runs the risk of turning black from
illegal immigration, it could turn into Africa.

"We need support from the European Union to stop this army trying to get across
from Libya, which is their entry point.

"At the moment there is a dangerous level of immigration from Africa into Europe
and we don't know what will happen.

"What will be the reaction of the white Christian Europeans to this mass of
hungry uneducated Africans?

"We don't know if Europe will remain an advanced and cohesive continent or if it
will be destroyed by this barbarian invasion.

"We have to imagine that this could happen but before it does we need to work
together."

In Britain, Conservative MP Daniel Kawczynski said: "Specific targeted measures
from Europe to assist North African countries to tackle migration would be a
good thing. But there should be no blank cheques. I would be appalled if the
British Government started handing out ludicrously large sums of money like
this."

Sir Andrew Green, of the pressure group Migrationwatch, said: "Cooperation with
Libya over illegal immigration to Europe is clearly very important but GBP
4billion sounds a bit steep."

And UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "This is blackmail from a
delusional dictator.

"It is outrageous that after calling for us all to convert to Islam, he is now
threatening to send us Africa's poor benighted masses."

Libya and Italy have already agreed a deal that allows the Italian navy to
intercept illegal immigrants and return them to Libya.

But the measure triggered criticism from the United Nations' Refugee Agency and
others.

Many illegal immigrants die in their attempts to cross the Mediterranean, and
those who are caught are taken back to camps in Libya where conditions are
appalling.

Has immigration reached danger level?

YES: 0901 030 8342 Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Libyan leader Colonel Gaddafi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
