
                               1 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fraud bill runs into billions

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 107  words


BILLIONS of pounds have been lost in fraud and waste under the notorious Common
Agricultural Policy.

The European Court of Auditors issued a little-noticed statement as the Council
of Ministers clashed with MEPs over the EU's bloated budget.

It reveals that in 10 years just one per cent of fraudulent subsidies have been
recovered despite reforms in 1996.

Auditors say it is impossible to tell how widespread corruption is at present.

UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen said:

"As we sign away millions in increased payments, each year more is wasted than
we have just promised. So British taxpayers' money may as well go straight into
a crook's bank account."

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Hold EU to account;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 67

LENGTH: 202  words


THE Government should tell the EU financial commissioner that no further funds
will be paid by the taxpayers of this country until the accounts are audited.

It is ludicrous to think we will be forced to pay additional funds to an
organisation that was not elected and consists of mostly failed ministers and
party toadies who have managed to get on the gravy train.

These people are civil servants yet appear to hold more power than elected
governments and MEPs.

How have we come to this? Are these people so far removed from reality they fail
to see the rise of Eurosceptics across Europe?

The people can see how this undemocratic organisation works after the 'vote
until we win' referendums in France, Holland and Ireland or the failed idea of
'one size fits all' financial policies that have crippled Italy, Spain, Greece,
Portugal and Ireland.

If you add the open border policy and financial strain to wealthier countries of
propping up their neighbours you can see the disaster that is Europe.

Unfortunately most government leaders are swayed by the idea of being one of the
boys in the club, to the detriment of their population.

Parties like UKIP will benefit and the sooner the better.

A Cartwright, Chelmsford, Essex

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Deadlock is PM's only hope of budget freeze

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 139  words


A FREEZE on Europe's budget is still on the cards if greedy MEPs refuse to budge
from demands for a 5.9 per cent increase, writes Leigh Phillips.

The Council of Ministers, led by David Cameron, insists the EU budget should
rise by no more than 2.9 per cent next year.

It cannot impose its will on the European Parliament, but under the Lisbon
Treaty "conciliation procedure" both sides must hold talks for three weeks. If
they cannot agree in that time the budget will remain at 2010 levels, creating
the freeze Mr Cameron originally sought.

Brussels insiders predict the final outcome will be a compromise rise of about
four per cent. Paul Nuttall, of the UK Independence Party, said for Mr Cameron
to leave Brussels claiming victory was akin to "a man rejoicing that muggers had
left him with his clothes and had only stolen his wallet".

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron U-turn denies Britain EU referendum

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan and Leigh Phillips

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 345  words


BRITONS have been robbed of the chance to vote on a power grab by Brussels
despite promises of a referendum.

In the wake of the Lisbon Treaty fiasco, David Cameron vowed Britain would never
again give away powers to Brussels without first holding a referendum.

In a spectacular U-turn, however, Mr Cameron has now backed plans to sneak
changes into the Lisbon Treaty without triggering referendums across Europe.

It is a significant victory for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who was last
night dining with the Camerons at Chequers, the Prime Minister's country retreat
in Buckinghamshire.

At the Council of Ministers, Europe's prime ministers and presidents backed "a
limited treaty change" to deliver tighter fiscal discipline across the EU and a
permanent bail-out fund for members of the eurozone. The change will create an
"economic government" for Europe.

Nigel Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party, said: "It is one of
the most massive power grabs they have ever attempted but because it is so
evilishly complicated this might just sneak through by default. But make no
mistake, these are draconian powers and without a shadow of a doubt this should
trigger a referendum."

Leaders are petrified that any change to the EU treaties would spark referendums
in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands.

In Britain the EU Referendum Campaign has been launched calling on the
Government to give the country the vote denied when Gordon Brown ratified the
Lisbon Treaty. More than 5,000 Sunda Express readers signed up after we
highlighted the campaign last week.

The Referendum Lock Bill, due to be introduced in Parliament next month, was
drawn up as the Conservative's "Plan B" after Mr Cameron dropped the "cast iron
pledge" to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty following ratification.

Mr Cameron argues there will be no transfer of powers from Westminster to
Brussels. He argues: "The key to a eferendum is this question: Are we
transferring powers. If yes, a referendum.

If not, no referendum."

To sign up to the EU Referendum Campaign visit sundayexpress.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 2nd Edition

Cameron U-turn denies Britain EU referendum

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan and Leigh Phillips

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 353  words


BRITONS have been robbed of the chance to vote on a power grab by Brussels
despite promises of a referendum.

In the wake of the Lisbon Treaty fiasco, David Cameron vowed Britain would never
again give away powers to Brussels without first holding a referendum.

In a spectacular U-turn, however, Mr Cameron has now backed plans to sneak
changes into the Lisbon Treaty without triggering referendums across Europe.

It is a significant victory for German Chancellor Angela Merkel, who was last
night dining with the Camerons at Chequers, the Prime Minister's country retreat
in Buckinghamshire.

At the Council of Ministers, Europe's prime ministers and presidents backed "a
limited treaty change" to deliver tighter fiscal discipline across the EU and a
permanent bail-out fund for members of the eurozone. The change will create an
"economic government" for Europe.

Nigel Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party, said: "It is one of
the most massive power grabs they have ever attempted but because it is so
evilishly complicated this might just sneak through by default. These are
draconian powers and without a shadow of a doubt this should trigger a
referendum."

Leaders are petrified that any change to the EU treaties would spark referendums
in the UK, Ireland and the Netherlands.

In Britain the EU Referendum Campaign has been launched calling on the
Government to give the country the vote denied when Gordon Brown ratified the
Lisbon Treaty. More than 5,000 Sunda y Express readers signed up after we
highlighted the campaign last week.

The Referendum Lock Bill, due to be introduced in Parliament next month, was
drawn up as the Conservative's "Plan B" after Mr Cameron dropped the "cast iron
pledge" to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty following ratification. He
argues there will be no transfer of powers to Brussels, saying: "The key to a
eferendum is this question: Are we transferring powers. If yes, a referendum.

If not, no referendum."

To sign up to the EU Referendum Campaign visit sundayexpress.co.uk or write to
Freepost, The EU Referendum Pledge, Studio 300, 2 Lansdowne Row, London W1J 6HL.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 31, 2010 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Cameron backtracks on referendum pledge

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan and Leigh Phillips

SECTION: NEWS; 27

LENGTH: 260  words


BRITONS have been robbed of a second chance to vote on a power grab by Brussels
despite promises of a referendum.

In the wake of the Lisbon Treaty fiasco, David Cameron vowed Britain would never
again give away British powers to Brussels without first holding a referendum.

In a spectacular U-turn, the Prime Minister has now backed plans to sneak
changes into the Lisbon Treaty without triggering referendums across Europe.

It is a significant victory for German chancellor Angela Merkel, who was last
night dining with the Camerons at Chequers, the Prime Minister's country
retreat.

At the Council of Ministers, Europe's prime ministers and presidents backed "a
limited treaty change" to deliver tighter fiscal discipline across the EU and a
permanent bail-out fund for the eurozone.

In essence the change will create an "economic government" for Europe.

Nigel Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party, said: "It is one of
the most massive power grabs they have ever attempted but because it is so
devilishly complicated this might just sneak through by default.

"But make no mistake, these are Draconian powers and without a shadow of a doubt
this should trigger a referendum." In Britain the EU Referendum Campaign is
calling on the Government to give the country the vote denied when Gordon Brown
ratified the Lisbon Treaty.

More than 5,000 Sunday Express readers signed up after we highlighted the
campaign last week.

Mr Cameron argues there will be no transfer of powers from Westminster to
Brussels, and says a referendum is therefore not required.

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SELLOUT: David Cameron at the European summit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday

OUT OF WORK MIGRANTS TO GET BENEFITS;
EC to 'open floodgates'

BYLINE: NATHAN RAO

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 170 words


MILLIONS of immigrants could soon be flocking to Britain with the right to claim
immediate benefits.

The European Commission is demanding the UK lifts rules stopping foreigners
claiming handouts until they have worked here for a year.

The move comes at a time when millions of Brits face having benefits slashed
under Government cutbacks.

Migrants from eight eastern European member states currently have to earn cash
under the Worker Registration Scheme before they can apply for a residence
permit.

They then qualify for a string of handouts, including housing benefit, council
tax benefit, crisis loans, and social housing, if they end up unemployed. But
the EC has warned David Cameron's Coalition Government if they are not lifted
within two months it could face legal action through the EU's Court of Justice.

Nigel Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party, said last night:
"This will open the floodgates to the tens of millions of Eastern Europeans who
will be entitled to claim benefits."

news@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WARNED: David Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain is told make it easier for migrants to get jobless benefits

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 495 words


BRITAIN could face legal action unless it makes claiming benefits easier for
eastern European immigrants, it emerged last night.

Critics warned the move by officials in Brussels could lead to a huge rise in
the number of migrants coming here to cash in on our system.

Nationals from eight European member states have to work for 12 months in the UK
before they can apply for a residence permit under the Worker registration
Scheme.

They then qualify for housing benefit, council tax benefit, crisis loans, and
allocation of social housing and provision of homelessness assistance if they
become unemployed.

The initial 12-month restriction on benefits was included in temporary
arrangements when the eight countries - the Czech republic, Estonia, Hungary,
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia - joined the EU in 2004.

Neil Mitchison from the European Commission said it was unlawful to include
restrictions to benefit entitlement in the arrangements.

He added: "We are just making sure European Union law is being enforced. We are
not saying whether or not benefits should be available to workers from these
countries and we are not telling the UK how to run its system, but we think the
legal channels used were invalid."

Nigel Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party, said last night:
"This will open the floodgates to eastern Europeans who will be entitled to
start claiming benefits.

"It is one thing having free movement of labour in the EU, but when you attach
it to our welfare system then the massive influx into Britain will only
continue."

Fiona McEvoy from the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "If the current rules are
overturned then the potential cost to UK taxpayers is huge.

"The Government is trying to reform the welfare system and reduce the burden of
its enormous cost, but if people from these countries are allowed to enjoy our
generous benefits having barely contributed, all these measures could be
undermined.

"The decision about who does or doesn't receive benefits should be ours to take
and certainly not something we're pressured into like this.

"We just can't afford to support an infinite number of unemployed workers from
overseas."

A Home Office spokesman said: "We are considering the arguments presented by the
European Commission.

"The UK takes its responsibilities under EU law very seriously and is fully
committed to facilitating the exercise of free movement rights."

OPINION: PAGE 14

Q Should migrants receive benefits?

YES: 0901 030 8348

Yes text DXSATYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8349

No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

£190m Benefit bill for Eastern European claimants

4.1m 4.1m NI numbers have been handed out to foreigners since 2002

167,000 migrants who came here to work are now receiving or claiming benefits -
almost a fifth of those who have arrived since 2004.

102,029 are now receiving child benefit at a total of £93m a year

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron: I've stopped the EU juggernaut

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 557 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday claimed a "spectacular" victory in his bid to halt the
"juggernaut" of EU excess in its tracks.

The Prime Minister said he had won a "significant prize" for British taxpayers
after forcing budget issues on to the table at the two-day summit of EU leaders
in Brussels.

Mr Cameron insisted his intervention would hold next year's budget rise down to
2.9 per cent, halting the European Parliament and EU Commission's demand for a
"crazy" near-six per cent rise, and that tougher restrictions in the years ahead
were now a realistic ambition.

But critics noted that even 2.9 per cent was far from his original demand for a
cut or freeze and would still cost Britain an extra £430million next year.

And Brussels politicians said he was wrong to claim there was any guarantee the
2.9 per cent figure would survive formal talks which must take place with the
European Parliament which voted for a 5.9 per cent rise.

The Prime Minister - who went for an early-morning jog despite a late night -
was in ebullient form at a post-summit press conference, however. He insisted he
had "made a real difference" by getting the 2011 budget discussed and persuading
a dozen other leaders including those of France, Germany and Italy to sign a
statement saying the rise must be no higher than 2.9 per cent.

"The six per cent increase is dead," he declared. Saying he was sure the figure
would hold because it had been signed up to by 13 of the EU's 27 countries, he
said: "I like to think my colleagues in Europe are good for their word.
Collectively we can stop anything more than that." He declared: "We have
succeeded quite spectacularly. We put together a big alliance, I hit the phones
yesterday before coming to the summit to stop that juggernaut of six per cent in
its tracks.

"Remember that every one per cent rise means £100million for Britain."

Mr Cameron also hailed agreement on the principle that future EU budgets must
take account of the "pretty grizzly'' cuts member states were having to make.

Countries should now aim to hold EU budget rises for 2012 and 2013 at least down
to inflation, as well as preparing to limit the budget for 2014 to 2020 on which
formal talks start next year and where he pledged to defend Britain's £3billion
annual EU budget rebate.

There would be difficult debates but "at a time when we are making painful
decisions at home to put our economy back on track I will not allow Brussels to
derail us'', he insisted.

"The money we are spending in Europe should not be immune from the difficult
decisions we are having to take at home. This is a new principle. It's never
been said before.''

He also celebrated what he said was an opt-out for Britain from the impact of
Lisbon treaty changes sought by Germany to provide a permanent bail-out
mechanism for eurozone countries in trouble. Mr Cameron's confidence about
holding down the 2011 budget was questioned in Brussels. A spokesman for EU
budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski said it was "more likely'' the final
outcome would be a "compromise'' between 2.9 per cent and the Parliament's 5.9
per cent demand.

UK Independence Party chairman Paul Nuttall MEP said: "Even if he actually
secured, rather than talked about a 2.9 per cent increase, it would be like a
man rejoicing that the muggers had left him with his clothes and only stolen his
wallet.''

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Budget chief Lewandowski
David Cameron appears to be telling Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel he
couldn't find any more cash for the EU yesterday
Picture: ERIC FEFERBERG/AFP/GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

PM the hero of EU budget negotiation

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 477 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday claimed a "spectacular" victory in his bid to limit EU
excess.

The Prime Minister said he had won a "significant prize" for British taxpayers
after forcing budget issues onto the table at the two-day summit of EU leaders
in Brussels.

Mr Cameron insisted his intervention would hold next year's budget rise down to
2.9 per cent, torpedoing the European Parliament and EU Commission's demand for
a "crazy" near six per cent rise, and that tougher restrictions in the years
ahead were now a realistic ambition.

But critics noted that even 2.9 per cent was far from his original demand for a
cut or freeze and would still cost Britain an extra £430million next year.

Mr Cameron suggested a cut was possible although member states had in August
jointly backed a 2.9 per cent rise.

Taxpayer And Brussels politicians said Mr Cameron was wrong to claim there was
any guarantee the 2.9 per cent figure would survive formal talks which must now
take place with the European Parliament which voted for a 5.9 per cent rise.

The Prime Minister insisted he had "made a real difference" by getting the 2011
budget discussed and persuading a dozen other leaders to sign a statement saying
the rise must be no higher than 2.9 per cent.

"The six per cent increase is dead," he declared. We have succeeded quite
spectacularly.

We put together a big alliance, I hit the phones yesterday before coming to the
summit to stop that juggernaut of six per cent in its tracks."

He added: "I'm not overclaiming, I'm not pretending that it's a giant El Dorado
of a goldmine for the British public but it's a lot better than what we were
looking at ... remember that every one per cent rise means £100million for
Britain."

Mr Cameron also hailed agreement on the principle that future EU budgets must
reflect what is happening in member states' own economies.

"This is incredibly important.

It will have a direct impact on the pocket of the UK taxpayer. It is a
signifi-cant prize,'' he said.

EU spending should take account of the "pretty grizzly'' cuts member states were
having to make, he said. "The money we are spending in Europe should not be
immune from the difficult decisions we are having to take at home.'' Mr
Cameron's confidence about holding the 2011 budget down was questioned in
Brussels. A spokesman for EU budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski expected the
final outcome would be a ''compromise'' between 2 and the Parliament's 5.9 per
cent demand. UK Independence Party chairman Paul Nuttall MEP accused Mr Cameron
of "spinning a yarn'' because the summit did not have the power to set the
level.

But Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe thinktank, said Mr Cameron
deserved credit for rallying an alliance against the Parliament's ''ludicrous''
six per cent demand.

"He worked hard and it paid off,'' he said.

'I hit the phones to stop that juggernaut of 6%'

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron, chatting to German chancellor Angela Merkel, gets his
jacket off for the fight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cash demand for migrants in UK

BYLINE: Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 234 words


EUROCRATS have demanded Britain makes it easier for eastern European immigrants
to claim benefits in this country, it emerged last night.

The European Commission issued an "official warning" and threatened legal action
unless the UK lifts rules preventing some foreign workers getting state help
until they have worked in this country for a year. But critics warned the move
could lead to a huge rise in the number of migrants coming here to cash in on
the UK's benefit system.

Nationals from eight European member states currently have to work for 12 months
in the UK under the Worker Registration Scheme before they can apply for a
residence permit.

They then qualify for housing benefit, council tax benefit, crisis loans, and
allocation of social housing and provision of homelessness assistance, should
they become unemployed.

Neil Mitchison from the European Commission said including restrictions to
benefit entitlement in the arrangements was unlawful.

"We are just making sure European Union law is being enforced," he said. Nigel
Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party said last night: "This
will open the floodgates to Eastern Europeans who will be entitled to come to
the UK and claim benefits."

Fiona McEvoy from the TaxPayers' Alliance said: "The decision about who does or
doesn't receive benefits should be ours to take and certainly not something
we're pressured into like this."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britain is told make it easier for migrants to get jobless benefits

BYLINE: By Nathan Rao

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 402  words


BRITAIN could face legal action unless it makes claiming benefits easier for
eastern European immigrants, it emerged last night.

Critics warned the move by officials in Brussels could lead to a huge rise in
the number of migrants coming here to cash in on our system.

Nationals from eight European member states have to work for 12 months in the UK
before they can apply for a residence permit under the Worker Registration
Scheme.

They then qualify for housing benefit, council tax benefit, crisis loans, and
allocation of social housing and provision of homelessness assistance if they
become unemployed.

The initial 12-month restriction on benefits was included in temporary
arrangements when the eight countries - the Czech Republic, Estonia, Hungary,
Latvia, Lithuania, Poland, Slovakia and Slovenia - joined the EU in 2004.

Neil Mitchison from the European Commission said it was unlawful to include
restrictions to benefit entitlement in the arrangements.

He added: "We are just making sure European Union law is being enforced. We are
not saying whether or not benefits should be available to workers from these
countries and we are not telling the UK how to run its system, but we think the
legal channels used were invalid."

Nigel Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party, said last night:
"This will open the floodgates to eastern Europeans who will be entitled to
start claiming benefits.

"It is one thing having free movement of labour in the EU, but when you attach
it to our welfare system then the massive influx into Britain will only
continue."

Fiona McEvoy from the TaxPayers' Alliance said:

"If the current rules are overturned then the potential cost to UK taxpayers is
huge.

"The Government is trying to reform the welfare s y stem and reduce the burden
of its enormous cost, but if people from these countries are allowed to enjoy
our generous benefits having barely contributed, all these measures could be
undermined.

"The decision about who does or doesn't receive benefits should be ours to take
and certainly not something we're pressured into like this.

"We just can't afford to support an infinite number of unemployed workers from
overseas."

A Home Office spokesman said: "We are considering the arguments presented by the
European Commission.

"The UK takes its responsibilities under EU law very seriously and is fully
committed to facilitating the exercise of free movement rights."

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

PM the hero of EU budget negotiation

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 469  words


DAVID Cameron yesterday claimed a "spectacular" victory in his bid to limit EU
excess.

The Prime Minister said he had won a "significant prize" for British taxpayers
after forcing budget issues onto the table at the two-day summit of EU leaders
in Brussels.

Mr Cameron insisted his intervention would hold next year's budget rise down to
2.9 per cent, torpedoing the European Parliament and EU Commission's demand for
a "crazy" near six per cent rise, and that tougher restrictions in the years
ahead were now a realistic ambition.

But critics noted that even 2.9 per cent was far from his original demand for a
cut or freeze and would still cost Britain an extra GBP 430million next year.

Mr Cameron suggested a cut was possible although member states had in August
jointly backed a 2.9 per cent rise.

And Brussels politicians said Mr Cameron was wrong to claim there was any
guarantee the 2.9 per cent figure would survive formal talks which must now take
place with the European Parliament which voted for a 5.9 per cent rise.

The Prime Minister insisted he had "made a real difference" by getting the 2011
budget discussed and persuading a dozen other leaders to sign a statement saying
the rise must be no higher than 2.9 per cent.

"The six per cent increase is dead, " he declared. We have succeeded quite
spectacularly. We put together a big alliance, I hit the phones yesterday before
coming to the summit to stop that juggernaut of six per cent in its tracks."

He added: "I'm not overclaiming, I'm not pretending that it's a giant El Dorado
of a goldmine for the British public but it's a lot better than what we were
looking at . . . remember that every one per cent rise means GBP 100million for
Britain."

Mr Cameron also hailed agreement on the principle that future EU budgets must
reflect what is happening in member states' own economies.

"This is incredibly important. It will have a direct impact on the pocket of the
UK taxpayer. It is a significant prize, '' he said.

EU spending should take account of the "pretty grizzly'' cuts member states were
having to make, he said. "The money we are spending in Europe should not be
immune from the difficult decisions we are having to take at home.'' Mr
Cameron's confidence about holding the 2011 budget down was questioned in
Brussels. A spokesman for EU budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski expected the
final outcome would be a ''compromise'' between 2 and the Parliament's 5.9 per
cent demand.

UK Independence Party chairman Paul Nuttall MEP accused Mr Cameron o f "spinning
a yarn'' because the summit did not have the power to set the level.

But Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe thinktank, said Mr Cameron
deserved credit for rallyin g an alliance against the Parliament's ''ludicrous''
six per cent demand.

"He worked hard and it paid off, '' he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron, chatting to German chancellor Angela Merkel, gets his
jacket off for the fight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 30, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron:I've stopped the EU juggernaut

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 558  words


DAVID Cameron yesterday claimed a "spectacular" victory in his bid to halt the
"juggernaut" of EU excess in its tracks.

The Prime Minister said he had won a "significant prize" for British taxpayers
after forcing budget issues on to the table at the two-day summit of EU leaders
in Brussels.

Mr Cameron insisted his intervention would hold next year's budget rise down to
2.9 per cent, halting the European Parliament and EU Commission's demand for a
"crazy" near-six per cent rise, and that tougher restrictions in the years ahead
were now a realistic ambition.

But critics noted that even 2.9 per cent was far from his original demand for a
cut or freeze and would still cost Britain an extra GBP 430million next year.

And Brussels politicians said he was wrong to claim there was any guarantee the
2.9 per cent figure would survive formal talks which must take place with the
European Parliament which voted for a 5.9 per cent rise.

The Prime Minister - who went for an early-morning jog despite a late night -
was in ebullient form at a post-summit press conference, however. He insisted he
had "made a real difference" by getting the 2011 budget discussed and persuading
a dozen other leaders including those of France, Germany and Italy to sign a
statement saying the rise must be no higher than 2.9 per cent.

"The six per cent increase is dead, " he declared. Saying he was sure the figure
would hold because it had been signed up to by 13 of the EU's 27 countries, he
said: "I like to think my colleagues in Europe are good for their word.

Collectively we can stop anything more than that." He declared: "We have
succeeded quite spectacularly. We put together a big alliance, I hit the phones
yesterday before coming to the summit to stop that juggernaut of six per cent in
its tracks.

"Remember that every one per cent rise means GBP 100million for Britain."

Mr Cameron also hailed agreement on the principle that future EU budgets must
take account of the "pretty grizzly'' cuts member states were having to make.

Countries should now aim to hold EU budget rises for 2012 and 2013 at least down
to inflation, as well as preparing to limit the budget for 2014 to 2020 on which
formal talks start next year and where he pledged to defend Britain's GBP
3billion annual EU budget rebate. There would be difficult debates but "at a
time when we are making painful decisions at home to put our economy back on
track I will not allow Brussels to derail us'', he insisted.

"The money we are spending in Europe should not be immune from the difficult
decisions we are having to take at home. This is a new principle. It's never
been said before.'' He also celebrated what he said was an opt-out for Britain
from the impact of Lisbon treaty changes sought by Germany to provide a
permanent bail-out mechanism for eurozone countries in trouble. Mr Cameron's
confidence about holding down the 2011 budget was questioned in Brussels. A
spokesman for EU budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski said it was "more
likely'' the final outcome would be a "compromise'' between 2.9 per cent and the
Parliament's 5.9 per cent demand.

UK Independence Party chairman Paul Nuttall MEP said:

"Even if he actually secured, rather than talked about a 2.9 per cent increase,
it would be like a man rejoicing that the muggers had left him with his clothes
and only stolen his wallet.''

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Budget chief Lewandowski
David Cameron appears to be telling Germany's Chancellor Angela Merkel he
couldn't find any more cash for the EU yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 29, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cameron wins backing in Euro budget battle

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 660 words


DAVID Cameron scored a victory in the row over the EU budget last night after he
won support from 10 European nations in his battle to halt a proposed 5.9 per
cent jump in the runaway bill.

Key backing came from German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in a Brussels summit confrontation with EU Parliament President
Jerzy Buzek.

The Prime Minister has already accepted a deal that would increase British
taxpayers' contribution to the EU by at least £435million as part of a 2.91 per
cent compromise figure agreed by EU finance ministers.

But last night the PM set out to rally support among his fellow leaders for
standing against any rise above that.

He circulated a letter condemning the attempt to increase the budget by 5.9 per
cent, saying: "These proposals are especially unacceptable at a time when we are
having to take difficult decisions at national level to control public
expenditure.

"The Council (of EU finance ministers) has proposed an increase in the EU budget
spending of 2.91 per cent for 2011. We are clear that we cannot accept any more
than this."

Mr Cameron's letter was signed by 10 other leaders - enough to form a "blocking
minority" if the rest of the member states seek to try to settle on a higher
figure in compromise talks with the EU Parliament and the Commission in the
coming weeks.

Support came from Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Austria, Finland, Slovenia and Estonia. Mr Cameron's unusual initiative
to petition fellow leaders marks his determination to nip in the bud any bid
from the Commission and MEPs to talk up the budget figure.

Although the letter does not bind the signatories legally, it was seen last
night as an unbreakable pledge to stick to 2.91 per cent whatever the outside
pressure. Despite the success of the letter, however, Mr Cameron faced fire from
Eurosceptics for not insisting on a complete budget freeze.

Veteran Tory Norman Tebbit yesterday warned: "Mr Cameron may find himself
isolated as other European leaders fall into line with the commission's demands.

"But he would do better to go down fighting than to surrender in some
Vichy-style arrangement, pretending to hold on to sovereignty by agreeing to
what Europe demands.

"The empty decks of the aircraft carriers will mock a decision to subsidise the
ambitions of our masters in Brussels".

Last night UK Independence Party chairman Paul Nuttall said: "This 2.9 per cent
increase in the EU Budget means the EU will dip into the pockets of the British
taxpayer for an extra £435million a year.

"At a time of job losses, cuts in government services and child bene-fit, I find
this profligacy appalling."

He added: "It is becoming far too expensive for the UK to be a member of the EU
club. What the UK needs is less EU and more money for itself. The direct
financial cost and loss of jobs because of EU hyper-regulation has become too
much for the British public to bear."

Mr Cameron is also coming under fresh pressure to hold a referendum on the EU
after France and Germany demanded changes to the Lisbon Treaty - barely a year
after it was finally approved.

Eurosceptics are demanding any changes be put to UK voters and have accused Mr
Cameron of "making schoolboy promises on Europe he knows he cannot keep".

Downing Street sources have indicated Mr Cameron would consider trading British
agreement to a Franco-German plan for a treaty amendment in return for a budget
cap.

But he will only agree as long as the amended treaty does not apply to the UK
because this otherwise would break an election pledge that new treaties should
be subject to a referendum.

After signing the Lisbon Treaty last year, then prime minister Gordon Brown said
there should be no more EU treaty changes for at least a decade. President of
the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso said it was time to end
"institutional navel-gazing" in Europe.

'It is becoming far too expensive for UK to belong to EU club'

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron with Italy's leader Silvio Berlusconi in Brussels
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 29, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron wins backing in Euro budget battle

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 650  words


DAVID Cameron scored a victory in the row over the EU budget last night after he
won support from 10 European nations in his battle to halt a proposed 5.9 per
cent jump in the runaway bill.

Key backing came from German Chancellor Angela Merkel and French President
Nicolas Sarkozy in a Brussels summit confrontation with EU Parliament President
Jerzy Buzek.

The Prime Minister has already accepted a deal that would increase British
taxpayers' contribution to the EU by at least GBP 435million as part of a 2.91
per cent compromise figure agreed by EU finance ministers.

But last night the PM set out to rally support among his fellow leaders for
standing against any rise above that.

He circulated a letter condemning the attempt to increase the budget by 5.9 per
cent, saying: "These proposals are especially unacceptable at a time when we are
having to take difficult decisions at national level to control public
expenditure.

"The Council (of EU finance ministers) has proposed an increase in the EU budget
spending of 2.91 per cent for 2011. We are clear that we cannot accept any more
than this."

Mr Cameron's letter was signed by 10 other leaders - enough to form a "blocking
minority" if the rest of the member states seek to try to settle on a higher
figure in compromise talks with the EU Parliament and the Commission in the
coming weeks.

Support came from Germany, France, the Netherlands, Sweden, the Czech Republic,
Denmark, Austria, Finland, Slovenia and Estonia. Mr Cameron's unusual initiative
to petition fellow leaders marks his determination to nip in the bud any bid
from the Commission and MEPs to talk up the budget figure.

Although the letter does not bind the signatories legally, it was seen last
night as an unbreakable pledge to stick to 2.91 per cent whatever the outside
pressure. Despite the success of the letter, however, Mr Cameron faced fire from
Eurosceptics for not insisting on a complete budget freeze.

Veteran Tory Norman Tebbit yesterday warned: "Mr Cameron may find himself
isolated as other European leaders fall into line with the commission's demands.

"But he would do better to go down fighting than to surrender in some
Vichy-style arrangement, pretending to hold on to sovereignty by agreeing to
what Europe demands.

"The empty decks of the aircraft carriers will mock a decision to subsidise the
ambitions of our masters in Brussels".

Last night UK Independence Party chairman Paul Nuttall said: "This 2.9 per cent
increase in the EU Budget means the EU will dip into the pockets of the British
taxpayer for an extra GBP 435million a year.

"At a time of job losses, cuts in government services and child benefit, I find
this profligacy appalling."

He added: "It is becoming far too expensive for the UK to be a member of the EU
club. What the UK needs is less EU and more money for itself.

The direct financial cost and loss of jobs because of EU hyper-regulation has
become too much for the British public to bear."

Mr Cameron is also coming under fresh pressure to hold a referendum on the EU
after France and Germany demanded changes to the Lisbon Treaty - barely a year
after it was finally approved.

Eurosceptics are demanding any changes be put to UK voters and have accused Mr
Cameron of "making schoolboy promises on Europe he knows he cannot keep".

Downing Street sources have indicated Mr Cameron would consider trading British
agreement to a Franco-German plan for a treaty amendment in return for a budget
cap.

But he will only agree as long as the amended treaty does not apply to the UK
because this otherwise would break an election pledge that new treaties should
be subject to a referendum.

After signing the Lisbon Treaty last year, then prime minister Gordon Brown said
there should be no more EU treaty changes for at least a decade.

President of the European Commission Jose Manuel Barroso said it was time to end
"institutional navel-gazing" in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron with Italy's leader Silvio Berlusconi in Brussels
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            October 29, 2010 Friday

Political briefing Can PM strike a hard bargain in Brussels?

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 489 words


Whatever proudly proclaimed concessions David Cameron brings home from the EU
summit this weekend, he will get a hard time from restless Conservative
Eurosceptics across the coalition faultline when he reports to the Commons from
Brussels on Monday.

All prime ministers, even Margaret Thatcher, engage in foxy tactics to disguise
tactical retreats in Brussels, and usually get away with it. But will Cameron's
compromises over the EU budget and looming Lisbon Treaty revisions trigger a
serious revolt to add to his coalition management problems, not least Boris
Johnson's "ethnic cleansing" manoeuvres over housing benefit cuts?

"Not yet" is the considered judgement of EU-watchers on both sides of the
political divide. In a little-noticed revolt only two weeks ago, 42 mostly Tory
Euro-sceptics voted against the draft EU budget for 2011. They were outraged
that, at a time of domestic budget cuts across the 27-member union, MEPs at the
Strasbourg parliament are proposing a 6% increase on top of those already in the
pipeline.

Yet that debate was notable for a veteran Tory sceptic, Bill Cash, acting (as a
Labour leftwinger, Kelvin Hopkins, put it) as "a restraining voice" against
demands by younger colleagues such as Douglas Carswell who were pressing for an
amendment to demand a cut in the budget. "Kamikazee" Carswell and his flamboyant
MEP ally, "Desperate Dan" Hannan, outriders for the "Quit the EU" lobby, are
deemed to be too extreme and counter-productive.

Before this summit Cameron had already retreated from his pre-election rhetoric
in arguing that chancellor Angela Merkel's demand for changes to the hard-fought
Lisbon Treaty - intended to prevent the need for another £400bn Greek currency
rescue - does not amount to a further erosion of British sovereignty, because
sterling is not a eurozone member.

Conveniently, that would mean Cameron would not have to call the referendum he
has been promising to appease ex-Tory voters who have drifted off to Ukip.
Almost as bad from the hardliners' perspective, No 10 admitted midweek that it
could not prevent a modest rise in the budget of about 2.9%, because Britain has
no national veto. The PM's ritual negotiating "triumph" on Monday may be a
fragile agreement with Paris and Berlin to freeze the budget in the future.

In a Commons full of new MPs with gut anti-European instincts, it will not win
him the coveted Thatcher's Handbag Prize. Cameron, George Osborne and William
Hague are not pro-European in the Clarke-Hezza sense. Yet they have been more
pragmatic in Europe since winning power, charming to Merkel and Nicholas Sarkozy
(with whom they are doing big defence deals) while steering clear of the cosy
dining clubs.

But more thoughtful Tory sceptics do not think now is the time to embarrass the
leadership. What they want is evidence that Cameron can strike a hard bargain,
by demanding concessions in return for nodding through tighter Lisbon budget
controls.

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 29, 2010 Friday 7:18 PM GMT

Why on earth should children need to study 'Women's History'?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1261 words


Driving into London last Tuesday to attend the memorial service for the late
Baroness Park of Monmouth, I turned as usual to my travelling companion, BBC
Radio 4, to while away the boring miles of the M11. It was Woman's Hour. The
sexist thought came to me that I might have enjoyed Men's Hour, but gender
equality has not yet arrived at the BBC and my needs are supposed to be met by
Jeremy Clarkson on television.

None the less there is often a great deal worth listening to in Women's Hour and
the miles drifted by well enough - that is, until my attention was grabbed  by a
discussion (I almost wrote "harangue") on the need to teach Woman's History. No,
not history, but Women's History.

Even over the radio I could hear the capital letters, as a lady positively
panting with emotion called for students to be taught more Women's History. At
the end of a back-slapping orgy of a discussion I was still not quite sure what
Women's History is exactly. Is it history from which men have been eliminated in
some sexually motivated act of discriminatory gender cleansing?

I began to wonder if I had been unknowingly taught Men's History. Then I
remembered being taught about Boadicea, Elizabeth Tudor, Mary Queen of Scots,
Joan of Arc, Queen Victoria, Florence Nightingale, the suffragettes, and I can
even remember from later life tales of Margaret Thatcher who betrayed the
feminist cause by becoming Prime Minister.

So what was this "Women's History"?  Perhaps the antics of some fool in a BMW
swinging wildly from lane to lane distracted me and I missed the real point of
it all, but I was left with the impression that students should be taught how
women had lived in the past. Students, it seems, should be taught how women had
been exploited and died during past times, such as, for example, during the
black death. But would that gender-obsessed lady have taught her students about
the Black death and when it had swept across Europe?

Was it before Elizabeth, or in the time of Victoria, or the Romans?  My
criticism of modern history teaching is that it muddles up tit bits of history,
slavery, the Vikings, the Nazis (but not often the communists) and the 'racist
atrocities of the British Empire' without everdeveloping a sequence of events to
explain how we became the nation we are, or our neighbours the nations they are.

My mind turned back to the purpose of my journey.  Daphne Park was listed in
Who's Who as a "diplomat".  Some diplomat! She may have looked a sweet white
haired old lady, but her life was spent in the Secret Intelligence Service in
some of the most dangerous places in the world.  What mention would she be given
in "Women's History" I wondered.

Then I thought what she would have said about that emotion laden breathless
diatribe I had just heard.  Oh, how I wished she were still alive and had been
allowed to join that discussion.  Without raising her calm quiet voice she would
have shredded those gender obsessed ninnies and reduced them to babbling
incoherence.

"Women's History" indeed.  It was women and men of the quality of the Baroness
Park who made history.

...

My blog deploring the lack of a decent parliamentary opposition, that is one
that would put forward an alternative to the policies of the LibDemCon
coalition, stirred a lot of you to post a really wide array of comments. I
enjoyed Fabian Ablutions who managed to send up that which is almost beyond
parody.  That is no mean achievement. And Theoriginalmorven was only just ever
so slightly over the top in his verdict that even a troupe of orangutangs on
crack could have won the last general election.

Not only the opposition, but the Coalition too came in for some stick with
several taking the same view as Chrisisaac, that it is not making much of a job
of defending its policies either, and while Garinch pointed out that UKIP
opposes the Coalition, it cannot do so where it matters most in the House of
Commons.  I can assure David in Rome that I have no time for the Labour Party,
but I do think it has an obligation to contribute rationally to the debate on
the economy.

There was some erudite discussion about Magna Carta between Stolen from and
Kwisatz, and I think I may have to consult the House of Lords library before
making a fool of myself by pretending to know more than I do about that.  I
suspect that Norto may be right to say we need a new great charter for today.

There was a long apologia for the EU from Flackstein who thought it all a good
thing and asked for an example of it behaving as a totalitarian dictatorship.
Well, he might tell us how the British people may, by a democratic process, sack
the Commission and replace it by one more to our taste. That body has the power
to make laws we must obey.  How do we change it or them?  Nor was he right to
say that we had a referendumn on the EU.  We had a referendumn on whether to
accept the renegotiated terms on which we had entered the European Economic
Community.

How nice it would be if UK_Debt_Slave and Geyza were right and we could simply
make ourselves rich by printing lots more money. Neither the experience of the
Weimar Republic nor that of Mr Mugabe gives much hope of that.  So Welsh
Rabbit's criticism of Osborne on the grounds that he read modern history rather
than economics may not be be that relevant.  He would have learned about the
fate of Germany in the 1920s.

Nor could I make much sense of David Gardiner's rant about ministers as
"unelected front men".  He must have been away on holiday in May when they were
elected. As for his "savage cuts", he ought to know that expenditure will be
rising, not falling for the next five years.

Perhaps Grimble had a fair point in asking how others might judge our spending
priorities, such as on Trident rather than on our poor, but it was not relevant
to the question of why we give aid to countries rich enough to possess nuclear
weapons, as we do not ask them for money.

As to the BBC, the point I wanted to make was not that the BBC should do the job
of the Opposition, but that at times it does. I can assure Mark From Ark that it
was not a lack of courage which restrained the Thatcher government from
privatising the BBC, but the fact that we believed in public service
broadcasting and that for all its faults (which are the faults of the people
running it) the BBC is a national asset which would not survive privatisation.

There was a perceptive post from Drjonathanwilson about jobs in the town halls.
And Damurphy's description of some of them as a kind of middle class outdoor
relief was about right. I greatly enjoyed Laveenladharam's robust piece on the
spelling of Bombay and his plea for religous tolerance as well as Dlot's
terrific piece on the Harrier.  Alas I can't match his experience having only
flown the Harrier once... but what an aircraft!

I rather liked Pragmatist's suggestion that I might become Lord Protector, with
him as my assistant.  That would stir things up a little I think.  It sounds a
better idea than Stuartn's acceptance that we will solve our problems only by
bloodshed.  What is wrong with using the ballot box?

There was a strong theme in the comments on my blog on the negotiations over the
EU budget, and it was not just "no more", but "a lot less". I will make only one
comment on all that and it is that Henrietta is (I think) wrong to say that
Cameron has been "bought".  It really is not like that. He has bought into the
same error that I did nearly 50 years ago when I became a Europhile.

Now that is the subject of another blog... How I fell into heresy but later
found the truth!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 28, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU accused of hijacking Armistice Day with war plaques

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 369 words


THE EU has been accused of trying to "hijack" Remembrance Day with a £4.7million
plan to put branded commemorative plaques marking "European integration" on war
cemeteries and memorials.

MEPs yesterday approved plans for the "European Heritage Label" to mark sites
that have "played a key role in the history and/or the building of EU".

Which sites will be awarded the "labels" will be decided by a special EU
committee with an annual budget of £783,000 over six years. British taxpayers
will contribute almost £640,000 at a time of deep national spending cuts,
including to budgets of the Armed Forces.

It is hoped that the plaques, to be designed through a competition next year,
will "strengthen European citizens' sense of belonging to the EU".

Despite the fact that the Brussels-based EU institutions do not mark the Belgian
bank holiday of Armistice Day on Nov 11, to avoid offending German
sensibilities, commission officials have confirmed that the "heritage labels"
will be used on war memorial sites.

"Places of remembrance clearly have their place in European history, not only as
memorials to those who lost their lives but also as places where visitors can
reflect on how and why Europe has successfully avoided major conflicts for more
than 65 years," said an EU official.

Paul Nuttall, a Ukip MEP, accused the European Union of wanting to impose its
view of history on war sites such as the Menin Gate, which marks the 55,000
British and Commonwealth soldiers who died in the First World War on the Ypres
Salient, in Belgium, but who have no known graves.

"As we come up to Remembrance Sunday, it is outrageous to think that the EU
might try and hijack the Menin Gate when, in fact, it commemorates the British
and Commonwealth soldiers who died to protect our independence from Europe," he
said.

"They are terrified that they do not own people's memory or history and are
prepared to spend millions of pounds of our money to generate a new one."

Syed Kamall, a Conservative MEP, said: "The UK is right to indicate its
disinterest in this vain attempt to force a common European identity. If the EU
insists on going ahead with this unnecessary idea, it should be at no additional
cost to the British taxpayer."

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 28, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

EU 'hijacking Armistice Day'

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 238 words


THE EU has been accused of trying to "hijack" Remembrance Day with a £4.7million
plan to put branded commemorative plaques marking "European integration" on war
cemeteries and memorials.

MEPs yesterday approved plans for the "European Heritage Label" to mark sites
that have "played a key role in the history and/or the building of EU". Which
sites will be awarded the "labels" will be decided by an EU committee with an
annual budget of £783,000 over six years. British taxpayers will contribute
almost £640,000 at a time of deep national spending cuts.

The "labels" will be used despite the fact that the Brussels-based EU
institutions do not mark Armistice Day on Nov 11, to avoid offending German
sensibilities. "Places of remembrance have their place in European history, not
only as memorials to those who lost their lives, but also as places where
visitors can reflect on how and why Europe has successfully avoided major
conflicts for more than 65 years," said an EU official.

Paul Nuttall, a Ukip MEP, accused the EU of wanting to impose its view of
history on sites such as the Menin Gate, which marks the 55,000 British and
Commonwealth soldiers who died in the First World War on the Ypres Salient, in
Belgium. "As we come up to Remembrance Sunday, it is outrageous to think the EU
might try and hijack the Menin Gate when, in fact, it commemorates the soldiers
who died to protect our independence from Europe," he said.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 28, 2010 Thursday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 691 words


* Time heals, but not much has elapsed since Ed Miliband so narrowly beat his
brother to lead the Labour party. One of the happenings of our political age.
But, as cannot be stressed enough, an apocalyptic turn of events for the unity
of the family. So what has happened since? Well, Ed has picked his team and is
working to win over his critics. David, meanwhile, is out of the limelight. Just
this week he raised his head to see if anyone on Twitter was still following
him. Contact between the brothers has been minimal, which perhaps has been good
for both. But in life, as in politics, we are driven by events, and there is a
momentous one looming. For in the next fortnight Ed's partner, Justine Thornton,
will give birth to the couple's second baby. Will David join the family
celebrations, close friends ask. Will this be the beginning of a process to
bring them close together again? Or will an awkward situation become even more
fraught, ever more awkward? That's the thing about kids. They can cement a good
relationship. But they can blow a rocky one clean apart.

?For isn't it all about relationships? Nick Clegg and the PM clearly get on. But
it is proving much harder to weld their parties together on the ground. It's
worse still in Peterborough, where the challenge is to stop the Tories tearing
into each other. Stewart Jackson is MP; Marco Cereste the Tory council leader.
Allies in blue? You'd never know it. Cereste's letter regarding Jackson's
comments on development in the town was "unfortunate and ill-judged", wrote
Jackson in a letter to the local Evening Telegraph. Indeed, many are "deeply
sceptical about the city council's grandiose plans for massive housing
development, which are speculative and lack any up to date supporting evidence
base to justify them". Jackson accuses the local Tory leadership of confronting
"sincere and principled opposition with a mixture of patronising disdain and
bombastic arrogance". As for Cereste, he should show "a little respect and
humility to the people in whose name he governs our city". These two are on the
same side. How would he treat an enemy?

* But then they make 'em tough, these Tories. Look at Lord Ashcroft: fearless
once more in his determination to root out wasteful public expenditure. Hey
Dave, he said via the Lords the other day, has the government "made any
assessment of whether £675,000 per annum is the appropriate remuneration package
level for the director general of the BBC"? Good question. And it would be quite
wrong to make any association between the inquiry and the fact that for all his
objections, the BBC finally plucked up the courage two and half weeks ago to
transmit the Panorama probing the good lord's tax affairs. Quite wrong. He would
have asked the question anyway. He's a public good kind of guy.

* And relentlessly the political class continues to explore the big issues in
Brussels. Currently, amid talk of budgets, there is the question we touched on
yesterday. Does the 77-year-old Ukip MEP Derek Clark wear dentures? He, in
answer to complaints about his diction, insists not; and to those at the French
paper Liberation who question him, he lays down this particular challenge. My
teeth are secure enough for me to enjoy a sumptuous meal of rabbit, he tells
them. Why not join me? The rabbit test. Cheap, delicious, with no risk of X-ray
radiation. Surely one for dentists in Andrew Lansley's new NHS.

?Poor Derek Clark isn't the only Ukipian having to defend himself. What about
Godfrey Bloom, our man from Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire? He has let it be
known that, despite the scurrilous accusation made by haters on the internet, he
did not relieve himself in a hotel pot plant and he has not been banned from
hotels in Strasbourg. And everyone who matters is with him on this because
"Eight Pints", as he is known here, doesn't embarrass easily - if at all - and
has always been heroically plain-speaking. "It is something you could see him
doing," said a colleague, "but he didn't and he points out that he has been
staying in the same hotel for the past four years." So that's that. Eight Pints
is innocent OK. An end to it.

LOAD-DATE: October 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 27, 2010 Wednesday

EX-LLOYD'S MAN JAILED

BYLINE: MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 144 words


THE former boss of the Lloyd's of London insurer founded by UKIP leading light
Lord Pearson has been jailed for 21 months after admitting paying more than
61.3m in bribes to win contracts in Costa Rica.

Julian Messent, ex-boss of PWS International, was also was ordered to pay
6100,000 compensation to Costa Rica, or spend an additional 12 months in jail.

Messent funnelled the corrupt payments to government officials, their wives and
associated companies in the Central American country between February 1999 and
June 2002 in return for winning lucrative reinsurance contracts.

After a probe by the Serious Fraud Office and the City of London Police, Messent
was charged in April. He pleaded guilty at Southwark Crown Court last week. The
judge said his offences justified a four to five year stint in prison but that
he had taken into account his early guilty plea.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 27, 2010 Wednesday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 700 words


Difficult to do justice to the many twists and turns that confront and confound
Nick Griffin in the twilight of his short time in public life. His people are
leaving, the finances of his British National party - £500,000 in debt - are
unravelling, and he just can't get the Equalities Commission off his back. How
to keep up with it all? Observers suggest a BBC News-style ticker. And it would
say that these are the darkest days yet because, in recent times, the
beleaguered Griffin has left much of the heavy lifting within the party - the
fundraising, admin etc - to his very good friend, the virulent anti-abortionist
and Orange lodger Jim Dowson. And that was fine. But now that things are getting
sticky, Dowson is moving on, it seems. Thus, the BNP operations centre in
Belfast, which was run by Dowson, is no longer available. This may be a
particular irritant to Griffin's daughter, who was deployed there as his eyes
and ears. Dowson was also the mastermind of the party's Troops Out of Iraq
petition, which harvested valuable data about potential members. But as he has
moved on, there is, sources say, no guarantee that Griffin will see any of it.
Reviled, friendless; it wasn't supposed to end like this. But, poor Nick: it
seems it will.

Happy days, by contrast, for the Nuclear Decommissioning Authority which, amid
the general retrenchment, will have its budget protected. The money will
continue to flow: around £3bn a year. That calls for a celebration. But then
some would say the authority has already had one, for last month it held a
two-day conference at the five-star Lowry Hotel in Manchester. The conference
cost £52,000 - that's £500 for each delegate. Exactly the sort of expenditure we
must protect.

And we will, for one might argue that those in favour of "clean, green" nuclear
have never had it so good. There is the coalition, keen to go ahead with more
nuclear power stations. Then the leader of the opposition, Ed Miliband - whose
partner, Justine Thornton, an environmental lawyer, did stuff on renewables for
the German energy giant E.ON, one of the biggest players in the nuclear
industry. Meanwhile, developing Labour's brave new policy on waste is Jamie
Reed, MP for Copeland. He was once a PR man for Sellafield.

And it is possible that the French had never heard of the British Ukip MEP Derek
Clark before this week. But they know him now, for his Euroscepticism. And
because, according to translators at the European parliament, he is the man no
one can hear when he speaks. This somewhat limited view of Clark's abilities
emerged as two French interpreters left their microphones on, so private
discussions about him were broadcast to the chamber. "I did not hear," one said
to the other. "He has something in his mouth. He has a problem of false teeth."
But that's not so, says Derek, in a letter to the paper Liberation. I may be 77,
but "they are my real teeth and they still allow me to eat apples throughout the
day, thus giving me a youthful complexion". Liberation may be of the left, but
it recognises a good sport when it sees one. "Derek Clark, 77, still young and
loves apples," is how it describes the East Midlands MEP. And its verdict on his
decision to set the record straight: "So British."

Finally, an apology from Father Ed Tomlinson, the conservative priest in Kent
who has been having a few problems with his parish blog. "When putting up a link
to the Forward in Faith assembly entitled 'Listen Again' I searched for images
of people engaged in the process of listening," he says. "In the end I opted for
a black and white shot of some old buffers with amusing moustaches listening to
the wireless. Unfortunately, and to my embarrassment, it turns out that they
were Nazis who, after someone took time to research this picture, were listening
to an address given by Adolf Hitler." I didn't know, says Father Ed. And maybe
he didn't, but one who reacted to his apology remains puzzled. "I did draw this
to your attention (first comment on that thread), but would you listen to me. .
.?" says the poster ruefully. He did indeed. "Is that Hitler's bunker?" was the
question he posed at the time. There was a clue there surely.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           October 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Insurance chief jailed over $2m bribes to win foreign contract;
Sentence provides boost for Serious Fraud Office

BYLINE: Alex Spence

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 528 words


A British insurance executive was jailed for 21 months yesterday for paying $2
million in bribes to win foreign contracts.

Julian Messent, 50, was sentenced at Southwark Crown Court after pleading guilty
last week to two counts of making corrupt payments to Costa Rican officials
between February 1999 and June 2002.

It is the harshest penalty handed out to a British businessman for foreign
bribery and comes as a boost to the Serious Fraud Office, whose attempts to take
tougher action against corporate corruption stalled this year.

Messent, the former chief executive of PWS International, a London-based
reinsurance broker founded by the former UKIP leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch,
was prosecuted by the fraud office after the case was referred by the Foreign
and Commonwealth Office in October 2005. He was accused of presiding over a
network of corrupt payments during his time as head of the company's American
division before he became chief executive.

Messent oversaw 41 illicit payments to senior officials at Instituto Nacional de
Seguros (INS), the Costa Rican state insurance company, and Instituto
Costarricense de Electricidad (ICE), the state electricity and
telecommunications provider, the court was told. The payments, which resulted in
the award and renewal of a big reinsurance contract, were made with the
knowledge of Messent's superiors and channelled through a network that included
bank accounts in Miami and Panama, Judge Geoffrey Rivlin said. Messent earned
about £430,000 in bonuses from the work secured by the bribes.

Bribery of foreign officials was at the "top end" of corporate wrongdoing and
justified an immediate custodial sentence, Judge Rivlin said. He accepted
Messent's claim that he was a family man of good character whose life had been
severely affected by the case.

Without these mitigating factors Messent would have faced a jail term of up to
five years, the judge said. He rejected Messent's contention that he was a "fall
guy" for the corruption and added: "It is plain... that you were deeply involved
in the decision-making and the process of these crimes. You orchestrated them."

Messent, who stepped down as chief executive of PWS in 2006, was barred from
serving as a company director for five years and ordered to pay the Costa Rican
Government £100,000 in compensation.

The insurance broker, founded by Lord Pearson in 1964, was acquired by THB in
2008.

Messent is the second senior executive to be convicted since the SFO stepped up
its efforts to tackle corporate corruption. The agency has attempted to bring
more prosecutions using American-style "plea bargains", but its plans have been
put on hold by a stalemate with senior judges over its legal authority to strike
such deals.

Britain has fallen to its lowest place in the annual index of perceived
corruption compiled by Transparency International. It was twentieth out of 178
countries, down three places and behind Barbados and Qatar, the anticorruption
watchdog said. Denmark, New Zealand and Singapore were perceived as the cleanest
countries. Somalia was regarded as the most corrupt.

'It is plain that you were deeply involved in the process of these crimes'

LOAD-DATE: October 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Julian Messant oversaw a network of illegal payments to Costa Rican
officials
BOGDAN MARAN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We continue to be dragged into cash-consuming EU;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 122 words


i Read a question and response on the Saturday briefing page (October 23) as to
why the Crusader on the front page of the daily express was unchained.

i would respectfully suggest it is time for the Crusader to be chained,
blindfolded and waving a white flag as britain continues to be dragged into the
monolithic, cash-consuming eU.

as UKiP's Nigel Farage pointed out, the £45million-a-day cost of our eU
membership matches almost exactly the cutbacks spelled out by George Osborne
over the next four years.

Most surveys seem to agree that the majority in this country want a referendum
on the eU. Only the politicians are happy to continue to delegate the rules
under which we live to foreign interests.

David Haresign, Andover, Hants

LOAD-DATE: October 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

We continue to be dragged into cash-consuming EU;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 59

LENGTH: 122  words


I READ a question and response on The Saturday briefing page (October 23) as to
why the Crusader on the front page of the Daily Express was unchained.

I would respectfully suggest it is time for the Crusader to be chained,
blindfolded and waving a white flag as Britain continues to be dragged into the
monolithic, cash-consuming EU.

As UKIP's Nigel Farage pointed out, the GBP 45million-a-day cost of our EU
membership matches almost exactly the cutbacks spelled out by George Osborne
over the next four years.

Most surveys seem to agree that the majority in this country want a referendum
on the EU. Only the politicians are happy to continue to delegate the rules
under which we live to foreign interests.

David Haresign, Andover, Hants

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 26, 2010 Tuesday

Cabal of climate sceptics to descend on UK parliament

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1314 words

ABSTRACT

Prominent UK climate sceptics and politicians will meet on Wednesday to
celebrate 'Climate Fool's Day'

FULL TEXT

If you seek an introduction to the UK's close-knit cabal of climate sceptics,
then you could do no better than head for the  of the Palace of Westminster at
1.30pm tomorrow and ask to be guided towards the event in committee room 16
being hosted by .

"" is being celebrated by ", incorporating  with  and the ". Here's the wording
of one of the invitations currently doing the rounds on climate sceptic blogs:

Climate Fools' Day (in memory of the passing of the Climate bill on 29.10.08)
organised through Sammy Wilson MP and supported by Graham Stringer MP.Wednesday
27th October from 2pm to 4pmHouse of Commons: Committee Room 16Introduced by
Jens Robdrup from Denmark, the founder of Climate Sense.There will be short
presentations from:Christopher Booker: "The most expensive Bill in History"Piers
Corbyn: "Successfully predicting extreme weather events"Revd Philip Foster:
"Climate reality: the long view"Followed by open discussion of the issues and
where to take things on from here.We are delighted to welcome, Christopher
Chope, David Davies and John Redwood.Also Peter Gill, physicist, Dr Ian
Strangeways - expert in metorological thermometry, Hans Schreuder of Mensa

Christopher Booker is the well known Sunday Telegraph columnistPiers Corbyn is
an astrophysicist and the founder and director of Weather Action long range
forecastingRevd Philip Foster is the author of While the Earth Endures: Creation
Cosmology and Climate Change (foreword by David Bellamy) and publisher in the UK
of Climategate: the CRUtape letters by Mosher & FullerJens Robdrup is founder of
Climate Sense and chief initiator of the Copenhagen Climate Challenge in
December 2009.

Over at Piers Corbyn's  site, a subtly different invitation has been posted. It
provides a few extra clues about who else is attending and a bit more about the
nature of some of the speakers' themes:

The Necessity for Evidence-Based Science & Policy - Not the Carbon Con!"The
danger is not Climate Change but Climate Change Policy - for which there is no
evidence in justification."Speakers after Messages of Support include:Rvd Philip
Foster - Author While the Earth Endures- The Evidence shows it's not CO2.Piers
Corbyn - Astrophysicist, WeatherAction- Why it's not CO2 + Use proper science to
predict extreme weatherPeter Gill - Physicist & Energy expert- Fictitious
'tipping points' + Facts about CO2Christopher Booker - Telegraph Columnist &
digger- The most expensive Bill in history.

MPs - Where will policy go?Lab - Graham Stringer - also a scientist,Tory - David
Davis, John Redwood, Christopher Chope.DUP - Sammy Wilson.

Contributions & discussion also include:Johnny Ball - TV science wow-showmanDr
Ian Strangeways - Expert on reliable weather monitoring.Jens Rodrup - Denmark
Climate Sense.Gabe Rychert - Climate RealistsGraham Capper - Climate Sense +
Copenhagen Climate Challenge

It is sure to be a thoroughly productive and illuminating afternoon for all
concerned, but some of the attendees could, perhaps, benefit from further
introduction.

All the politicians attending - , , , Wilson, and less so,  - are known for
their sceptical stance on climate science. Graham Stringer, for example, was the
only MP who adopted an openly (climate) sceptical line of questioning during the
into the  earlier this year (incidentally, the committee is holding ).

And Sammy Wilson - the event's host - courted international headlines last year
when, as Northern Ireland's environment minister, he  calling for emissions
cuts. (He has since become the assembly's , in addition to his role as MP.)

As readers of  will testify,  need no introduction. And Piers Corbyn, the
long-range weather-forecaster and founder of Climate Realists, is also a
prominent and spiky voice in the climate sceptic blogosphere.

However, Revd Philip Foster is less known. The "address for correspondence" at
the bottom of the invitation belongs to Foster and it is from this address that
he runs , a small publishing house which sells an intriguing mix of Christian
books and anti-EU pamphlets. Foster's own book, While the Earth Endures, is also
and is described thus: "The nature of the Genesis account of Creation, why
Darwinism is wrong and why climate change is not man-made." Foster attracted
when, as vicar of St Matthew's church in Cambridge, he said he intended to hold
a service of thanksgiving for the recent UKIP election result. (He has since ,
and if you want to watch him give a 72-minute lecture on climate change from his
armchair then .) Of course, UKIP politicians, such as , and their supporters are
well known for their climate scepticism.

Another name on the invitation that might not be so familiar to readers is Peter
Gill. He is listed as a "Physicist & Energy expert", but Gill is possibly best
known within the climate debate as the man behind Crestport Services, an oil and
gas industry consultancy based in Surrey. Gill, as  earlier this year, helped to
draft the ' controversial submission of evidence to the parliamentary inquiry
into the hacked emails. Gill is also the vice chair of the "" of the , the
energy industry trade association established in 2003 when the Institute of
Petroleum and the Institute of Energy merged. In this role, Gill has hosted a
of  featuring climate sceptics. Just last week, he  featuring Andrew Montford,
who authored the 's "" and who blogs as .

Finally, Hans Schreuder is simply billed as being "of ", a label that seems to
have gone out of vogue in recent years. But as well as being proudly in
possession of an IQ in the top two per cent of the population, Schreuder is also
the person behind the sceptic blog  (currently down).

What neither of the invitations mentions, though, is that the event is also
being used to hand Piers Corbyn a new prize. Via another  marking Carbon Fool's
Day put out by the Queensland-based , we learn that Corbyn will be picking up a
rather handsome cheque for his endeavours:

US publisher,  [which sells Andrew Montford's  in the US], have chosen the
Climate Fools Day gathering in Westminster to make the inaugural presentation of
the " Award for Scientific Integrity and Competence" (BASIC). Piers Corbyn gets
the US$10,000 award for "his untiring efforts both as a climate skeptic and for
his outstanding success in long-range weather forecasting".

It's certainly going to be interesting to see who picks up this "science" prize
in future years if Corbyn has been chosen as the person to receive the inaugural
cheque. After all, this is what :

"CO2 has never driven, does not drive and never will drive weather or climate.
Global warming is over and it never was anything to do with CO2. CO2 is still
rising but the world is now cooling and will continue to do so."

If nothing else, tomorrow's event at the Palace of Westminster should certainly
provide a fascinating portal into the worldview adopted by climate sceptics here
in the UK. And we haven't even mentioned yet the promised presence of .

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 25, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Vice-Admiral Sir Louis Le Bailly;
Obituaries ; Naval engineer who survived a German torpedo to become a spymaster
at the height of the Cold War

SECTION: FEATURES; OBITUARIES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 991 words


VICE-ADMIRAL SIR LOUIS LE BAILLY, who has died aged 95, was an iconoclastic
naval officer and Director General Intelligence from 1972 to 1975, responsible
at the height of the Cold War for the collection (from a wide variety of overt
and covert sources) of information on the enemy, principally the Soviet Union
and its allies.

He had learned his trade in Washington and as Deputy Chief of Defence Staff
(Intelligence), and knew his subject, particularly the Soviet Navy, intimately.
His strategic warnings of military, economic and technical developments behind
the Iron Curtain were given in straightforward language.

Despite rising to the summit of British intelligence, however, he considered
espionage a strange twilight world, and his years there were the least happy of
his 46 years' service. He was also embarrassed to discover that the flat he had
taken in Dolphin Square had been lived in by the traitor John Vassall, and that
his own report of this was leaked to the press.

Louis Edward Stewart Holland Le Bailly was born on July 18 1915, the son of an
engineer in the Royal Naval Air Service. As a boy Louis and a cousin bought £5
tickets at Victoria station to take them to Germany and Austria, where they went
mountain-climbing. His early impressions of Germany were favourable, as he noted
its jolly Hitler Youth and clean streets that were a contrast to the slums and
squalor of home.

His summons to join the Navy was delivered via a telegram from Gieves, the naval
tailors, to a ski resort in Austria in 1928, and he joined Dartmouth in the
Drake term.

He served under training in the battleship Hood in 1932, and wanted to pursue a
career as a navigator, only to be prevented by defective eyesight. He considered
the alternatives of the Army or Oxford, and somewhat reluctantly became an
engineer, studying at the Royal Naval Engineering College, Keyham, from 1933 to
1937. He returned to Hood as a junior engineer officer, serving from 1937 to
1940. "It was like coming home," he recalled.

Next Le Bailly stood by the cruiser Naiad while she was building on the Tyne,
and saw action in the Mediterranean until, on March 11 1942, she was sunk by a
German U-boat south of Crete. Le Bailly was in the after engine room when a
single torpedo struck and all lights went out; he helped several men to escape
but was ever afterwards haunted by the memory of those who had been trapped,
owing to design defects, in compartments below the waterline.

Many of the men were burned or injured on the bilge keel as they slid down the
side after the order to abandon ship. The sea was rough, and there seemed to be
little hope of rescue as the fleet steamed away at high speed. After an hour or
so those "a bit panicky or wounded" had been put on the few Carley floats; a
stoker's voice came over the water, singing Abide With Me. To Le Bailly the last
two lines ("Heaven's morning breaks and earth's vain shadows flee/In life, in
death, O Lord, abide with me") seemed appropriate as he trod water, 50 miles
from the shore, with his ship on the seabed 600ft below. Fortunately, the
destroyer Jervis returned to save all but 77 of Naiad's company of 480.

From 1942 to 1944, Le Bailly taught at Keyham before joining the battleship Duke
of York, flagship of the British Pacific Fleet, from which he witnessed the
Japanese surrender on board USS Missouri.

Postwar he served both at sea (in the cruiser Bermuda) and ashore. In 1947 he
was secretary to Lord Geddes's Admiralty Oil Committee, and chaired the Nato
Fuels and Lubricants Standardisation Committee until 1952.

From 1955 to 1958 he was second-in-command of the newly-founded Royal Naval
Engineering College at Manadon, where he showed outstanding qualities of
leadership and management and from where he was promoted captain.

Known to the fleet as "Lou", Le Bailly was a kind, generous, perceptive and wise
mentor to generations of naval officers. He was Assistant Engineer-in-Chief
(1958-60); Naval Assistant to Controller of the Navy (1960-63); Deputy Director
of Marine Engineering (1963-67); and, unusually for an engineer, was promoted
rear-admiral and appointed Naval Attaché and Commander, British Navy Staff,
Washington (1967-69).

In 1963, while he was a student at the Imperial Defence College, Le Bailly -
along with Neil Cameron (the future Lord Cameron, Chief of the Defence Staff)
and Brigadier Kenneth Hunt - wrote to a national newspaper, arguing that Britain
needed an independent think tank for the academic study of national defence, and
recommended the development of the Royal United Services Institute, an idea
which Lord Mountbatten endorsed.

Le Bailly was appointed OBE in 1952, CB in 1969 and KBE in 1972.

In retirement he played a leading role in a think tank, the Institute for the
Study of Conflict; was a supporter of Ukip; and became a prolific writer of
letters to the editor. He championed the "metric martyr" Steven Thoburn, a
greengrocer prosecuted for continuing to use imperial measures. Other letters
praised desks at which writers could stand up. A particular bête noire was the
undermining of the state education system by what he perceived to be a Left-wing
conspiracy.

He published an autobiography, The Man Around the Engine, in 1990. Other books
included a collection of his thoughts, From Fisher to the Falklands (1991); an
anthology of his published essays, Old Loves Return (1993); and We Should Look
to Our Moat (2007), in which he suggested that Britain should concentrate on
reestablishing a nation at peace with itself before embarking on overseas
adventures. In 1992 he presented the bulk of his papers on naval engineering and
intelligence issues to the Churchill Archives at Cambridge.

Le Bailly also campaigned for his local pub at St Tudy, Cornwall, to be renamed
after William Bligh of the Bounty, who had been born in the village.

Louis Le Bailly died on October 3. He married, in 1946, Pamela Berthon, who
survives him with their three daughters.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Le Bailly: perceptive and wise mentor to generations of officers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            October 24, 2010 Sunday

CAMERON AIDE: COALITION WILL SURVIVE TORY MAJORITY

BYLINE: BY SIMON WALTERS

LENGTH: 341 words


Tory MPs were shocked yesterday after a senior aide to David Cameron suggested
that Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg will remain Deputy Prime Minister even
if the Conservatives win outright victory at the next Election.

Cabinet Office Minister Francis Maude, one of the chief architects of the
Lib-Con pact, said the Coalition is a 'bloody good thing'.

There was very little difference between the parties, he said, and many Tories
wanted the pact to carry on far beyond the present five-year deal.

'Even if the Conservatives win a majority at the next Election, there will be a
desire to continue with the Coalition among parts of the Conservative Party,' he
told a private gathering in Westminster.

It is the closest any senior member of the Government has come to saying the two
parties could be linked permanently Z or merge.

Mr Maude is one of Mr Cameron's closest advisers. His comments will fuel
suspicion among Right-wing Conservatives that the Prime Minister sees the
Coalition as part of a long-term strategy, not a short-term fix after the
Election result.

Mr Maude said the Coalition was part of a deliberate effort

senior Tories to make the party acceptable to mainstream voters. And Mr Cameron
was aided

moderate Lib Dems such as Mr Clegg.

The Tory Minister said Vince Cable, seen

some as closer to Labour, was far more enthusiastic about the Coalition than
many realised. He jokingly referred to the Business Secretary as Vince 'more
than you think' Cable.

The two parties had hardly had any disagreements in power, said Mr Maude. A
'coalition committee', created to resolve disputes, had met twice: once to 'say
hello' and once to discuss controversial health policies. Even at the second
meeting there was no fall-out.

Mr Maude's comments were criticised

former Tory chairman Norman Tebbit, who said: 'I'm sure people on the
Eurofanatic Left of the Tory Party would love to be permanently in bed with the
Lib Dems.

'But that could leave three million Tory voters with no home except UKIP. I am
not sure that is an Election-winning strategy.'

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                October 24, 2010
                                 Ulster Edition

Speaker John dead grateful

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 103 words


THE flamboyant Nigel Farage annoyed Commons Speaker John Bercow by breaking with
tradition and standing against him in his Buckingham seat at the General
Election.

But Mr Bercow is hugely grateful to the Ukipper - for not being dead.

You will no doubt remember that Mr Farage emerged battered but breathing when
his light aircraft crashed on polling day.

Electoral rules say had he died the ballot would need to have been held again at
a later date with a new UKIP candidate.

That means Mr Bercow, left, could not have sat as an MP when the Commons
returned after the election - and could not have stood as Speaker.

LOAD-DATE: October 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 24, 2010 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

EU is wasting our cash by the billion

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 902  words


GBP 204million thrown away on space project

GBP 46million lavished on 'gender equality'

BARKING Brussels politicians have proved they live on another planet by pouring
millions of pounds into the pointless European space programme.

As millions of Britons faced swingeing cuts, the draft EU budget reveals an
extra GBP 23million will be spent on space research next year, taking the annual
total to GBP 204million.

Taxpayers' cash is also being funnelled into a GBP 670million subsidy of
pro-European documentaries and art-house films revelling in scenes of sex and
violence.

Nigel Farage, frontrunner to lead the UK Independence Party, last night
described the draft budget as proof that Brussels had lost touch with reality.
He said: "The idea of sending eurocrats into orbit has its charms but GBP
23million extra for space research is bizarre.

"Will the first EU space rocket have goldplated taps and marble flooring? It
seems our eurocrats have finally got off the Brussels gravy train and boarded
Starship Excess."

The 500-page draft was rubber-stamped by MEPs on the same day that Chancellor
George Osborne was pulling Britain back from the brink of financial ruin with an
GBP 81billion cut in state spending.

The EU document is unapologetic about the 13 per cent increase in next year's
European space programme from GBP 181million to GBP 204million.

It states: "Decreasing financial support for policies like research and
innovation, which are core priorities of the European Union cannot be accepted
by the European Parliament, because they can be harmful for the functioning of
the programmes. Therefore, increasing appropriations? is fully justified."

The document also lavishes taxpayers' cash on a six-year media programme to
bankroll fims promoting Europe's "identity and heritage".

There is an 85 per cent increase in the entertainment budget and a GBP 551,000
rise in funding for the private company that arranges MEPs' travel.

Although it is a private company, the EU travel agency will next year enjoy a
public subsidy topping GBP 1.7million to make sure its politicians and their
families fully enjoy their holidays.

Some GBP 26.4million has been pledged for the Euroscola programme, which allows
MEPs to pay people to visit them in Brussels on factfiding trips. Web TV, the
European parliamentary channel watched almost exclusively by eurocrats and MEPs,
will enjoy an GBP 8million grant next year.

A further GBP 850,000 has been set aside to promote cross-border tourism.

Mr Farage said: "The proflgacy of the European elite and their projects is
astonishing.

Cars, trips, wine, social clubs, all paid for out of our taxes and of virtually
no benefit to anyone bar themselves."

The revelations came as the Open Europe think tank published research showing
that while 192 quangos in Britain face the axe, quango-land in Brussels is
thriving.

The cost of EU quangos has tripled over the past five years and will top GBP
2.1billion in 2011, of which GBP 300million is funded by Britain's hard pressed
taxpayers.

The draft budget outlines an eight per cent increase in quango costs, including
the creation of five new agencies and support for the existing 47 quangos.

They include the European Institute for Gender Equality, which will receive GBP
46million next year.

Emma Boon, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said:

"Taxpayers hand billions to the unaccountable, meddling EU every year and,
despite cutting spending here, the EU is continuing to burn through our money at
an even faster rate.

"While we are abolishing dozens of wasteful quangos, our savings are being
undone as Brussels creates new ones. Meanwhile, Brussels is busy slowing down
Britain too, with EU red tape costing British business and organisations
billions every year."

The MEPs have backed European Commission plans for a 5.9 per cent increase in
the EU budget for 2011.

Prime Minister David Cameron yesterday branded the inflation-busting demand
"outrageous" and vowed to use this week's Council of Ministers meeting to form
an alliance aimed at forcing a cash freeze on the EU budget.

If he fails, Britain will see its contribution rise by GBP 840million next year,
pushing Brussels's bloated budget up by almost GBP 7billion to GBP 114billion
next year.

With Britain now pouring GBP 48million a day into the EU, demands are growing
for a referendum on whether we should be in or out.

Jon Gaunt, radio presenter and spokesman for the EU Referendum Campaign, said:
"There is a massive disconnect between the political class and ordinary people
and this is an issue where people can rally behind the flag and say it's not
right.

"The EU Referendum Campaign is not saying let's get out of Europe. We are just
saying let's have a debate about this and let's have a vote."

The campaign has a petition on the internet which it hopes will attract the
signatures of hundreds of thousands of voters.

In the run-up to the election, David Cameron outlined plans to trigger
legislation in Parliament for any petition backed by one million or more
citizens.

While that democracy pledge did not survive the coalition agreement, one million
signatures calling for an EU referendum would be impossible for politicians to
ignore.

There is growing anger among senior Conservatives and new generation Tories
that, even before the dust settles on the Lisbon Treaty, Brussels is busy empire
building again.

To sign up for the EU Referendum Campaign, log on to sundayexpress.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EUROPE'S BIG SPENDERS: Nigel Farage, below right, claims that while we
cut back in the UK, MEPs in the Strasbourg Parliament and officials at the EU
Commission are obviously not

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 24, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Julia Hartley-Brewer

BYLINE: Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: COLUMNS; 39

LENGTH: 87  words


WITH Europe once again rearing its ugly head at the heart of British politics,
it's timely that UKIP is following in Labour's footsteps with an election for
the eurosceptic party's new leader.

There are four candidates but, as far as I'm concerned, there's only one real
contender and that is Nigel Farage, left.

He knows just how to hit the other parties where it hurts and, unlike so many
other politicians on all sides, he actually tells it like it is. Farage is not
just UKIP's secret weapon, he's the party's dirty bomb.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday

FORMER PWS BOSS GUILTY OF BRIBING COSTA RICAN OFFICIALS

BYLINE: BY TAMSIN BROWN

LENGTH: 366 words


THE former boss of the Lloyds of London firm founded

Lord Pearson of Rannoch has pleaded guilty to paying more than 61.3m in bribes
to win government reinsurance contracts in Costa Rica.

Julian Messent, who was chief executive of PWS International, has admitted two
counts of corruption at Southwark Crown Court and pleaded guilty to using a
'slush fund' for paying bribes to Costa Rican officials. He is due to be
sentenced on Tuesday.

Four past and present employees of PWS were arrested

the Serious Fraud Office in 2007, but Messent is the only person to be
prosecuted.

The reinsurance contracts in Costa Rica were big business for PWS.

The company arranged as much as 62.6bn of reinsurance cover for Costa Rica's
state-owned hydroelectric power plants.

In order to keep hold of these lucrative deals, it is understood that PWS would
funnel money back to Costa Rican officials.

Messent has admitted to passing money back to at least three Costa Rican
officials.

Hodge Malek, a barrister who acted for the Serious Fraud Office, said in court:
'These were very large government contracts with high premiums and large amounts
of money being funnelled back.'

PWS was founded

Lord Pearson in 1964.

He was still chairman of the Lloyds insurance firm when the SFO made the arrests
of his former colleagues, but his involvement in the company ended when the
profitable parts of the business was sold to another firm of insurers, THB, in
2008.

THB has no potential legal liabilities tied to the events in Costa Rica, which
were all excluded from the deal.

Lord Pearson, who was leader of right-wing UK Independence Party until he
stepped down over the summer, has said he has no personal knowledge of the
dealings with Costa Rica.

It is thought Messent quit as chief executive of PWS after a Costa Rican
delegation travelled to London to confront Pearson four years ago.

PWS first called in its lawyers from Freshfields in June 2006 to conduct a
forensic examination of its business in Costa Rica.

But this was a full six months after the Costa Rican Prosecutor's Office started
its own investigation into the matter.

Ten people are also being investigated

prosecutors in the Central American country for accepting bribes.

LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Europe is sinking and will take us down too

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 814 words


WHAT degree of culpability should the European Union accept for the relative
decline of Europe, including Britain, over recent decades? I ask because had
Europe been the economic powerhouse of the world for these past 20 years or so
there can be little doubt that the European elite would be claiming most of the
credit for their pet political project.

We would be told from morning till night that EU membership was the foundation
stone of our prosperity and the thumbscrews would be on to force Britain to join
the euro or risk losing millions of jobs. Instead Europe is creeping along in
the economic slow lane of the world, stuck with high state indebtedness and poor
industrial relations. The only thing growing is its reputation for sloth and
comical self-regard.

In the Seventies our economy was described as the "sick man of Europe". Now the
whole of Europe resembles the sick man of Europe. Or to put it another way, the
dash towards federalism and over-regulation has turned Europe into the sick man
of the world.

Unemployment across the EU averages 10 per cent, with more than 23million people
who are able and willing to work unable to find a job. In some blackspots such
as Spain, Latvia and Estonia the unemployment rate is twice that. In these
countries one in five adults can't find work and economies are in free fall.
After a summer of civil unrest in Greece the more traditionally prosperous and
stable European countries are now being brought to a similarly low ebb.

This week brought a welter of shocking evidence of European civil disharmony:
from rioting in France over plans to raise the statutory retirement age to a
paltry 62, to the admission by the German Chancellor that multiculturalism has
severely damaged her country and the ongoing trial of Geert Wilders in Holland
for speaking his mind about creeping Islamification. In traditionally liberal
Sweden race relations have also plunged to a new low with a racist gunman on the
loose in Malmo.

And despite stacks of evidence that importing Muslim communities has brought
cultural unease and high welfare dependency the EU is still in formal talks to
admit Turkey to its ranks and further stoke its already explosive combination of
economic stagnation and mass immigration.

IN BRITAIN we have become just another part of the European failure story. This
week we had the humiliation of defence cuts that left us with an aircraft
carrier bereft of aircraft and wider spending reductions designed to cure us of
a decadent habit of borrowing from countries with fiercer work ethics to
subsidise an unsustainable public realm.

Take all these things together and one gets a picture of Britain as a neglected
outpost of a flaccid empire in terminal decline. As UKIP's Nigel Farage pointed
out the £45million-aday cost of our EU membership matches almost exactly the
cutbacks spelled out by George Osborne over the next four years.

If the Brussels elite possessed either wisdom or humility it would react to
these dismal trends by changing direction: cutting costs and going for growth.
As John Bruton, the former Irish taoiseach, put it earlier this year: "We need a
new way of thinking, enhanced orientation towards finding ways to earn a living
from meeting the needs of the rest of the world." (Translation: it's time Europe
pulled its finger out.)

Instead the riders on the EU gravy train are doing the opposite. This week MEPs
voted to increase the EU's financial demands on its broke member states by
almost six per cent next year, while EU Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski
revived the ambition of Brussels to gain its own tax-raising powers. And the
European Parliament endorsed a new directive that stipulates new mothers should
be entitled to 20 weeks' maternity leave on full pay. This could cost nearly
£3billion a year in Britain alone and will be regarded by employers as yet
another reason not to hire extra staff, particularly women of child-bearing age.
Given Britain's ability over recent years to opt out of the very worst Brussels
regulations our unemployment rate has mercifully remained below the EU average.
But this makes us a target for the unemployed of other EU nations.

So, if and when our private sector begins creating serious numbers of jobs,
British workers made redundant through public sector austerity measures will
face massive competition from foreigners for new employment opportunities.

Welfare reform will also be impeded at the bottom of the labour market by the
arrival of new waves of Eastern Europeans to take jobs that ministers hope will
be filled by longterm benefits claimants.

The events of the past week have tied all these strands together to form a
tapestry of decline. Europe isn't working. It is a collection of lazy, flabby
societies sinking under the weight of unrealistic expectations. The case of
those who wish Britain to break free of the EU grows ever stronger.

LOAD-DATE: October 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEARS: Two demonstrators take cover from CS gas in Paris this week
after French riot police confronted protests against raising the pension age
Picture: REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Europe is sinking and will take us down too

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 815  words


WHAT degree of culpability should the European Union accept for the relative
decline of Europe, including Britain, over recent decades? I ask because had
Europe been the economic power house of the world for these past 20 ears or so
there can be little doubt that the European elite would be claiming most of the
credit for their pet political project.

We would be told from morning till night that EU membership was the foundation
stone of our prosperity and the thumbscrews would be on to force Britain to join
the euro or risk losing millions of jobs.

Instead Europe is creeping along in the economic slow lane of the world, stuck
with high state indebtedness and poor industrial relations. The only thing
growing is its reputation for sloth and comical self-regard.

In the Seventies our economy was described as the "sick man of Europe". Now the
whole of Europe resembles the sick man of Europe. Or to put it another way, the
dash towards federalism and over- regulation has turned Europe into the sick man
of the world.

Unemployment across the EU averages 10 per cent, with more than 23million people
who are able and willing to work unable to find a job. In some blackspots such
as Spain, Latvia and Estonia the unemployment rate is twice that. In these
countries one in five adults can't find work and economies are in free fall.
After a summer of civil unrest in Greece the more traditionally prosperous and
stable European countries are now being brought to a similarly low ebb.

This week brought a welter of shocking evidence of European civil disharmony:

from rioting in France over plans to raise the statutory retirement age to a
paltry 62, to the admission by the German Chancellor that multiculturalism has
severely damaged her country and the ongoing trial of Geert Wilders in Holland
for speaking his mind about creeping Islamification. In traditionally liberal
Sweden race relations have also plunged to a new low with a racist gunman on the
loose in Malmo.

And despite stacks of evidence that importing Muslim communities has brought
cultural unease and high welfare dependency the EU is still in formal talks to
admit Turkey to its ranks and rather stoke its already explosive combination of
economic stag nation and mass immigration.

IN BRITAIN we have become just another part of the European failure story. This
week we had the humiliation of defence cuts that left us with an aircraft
carrier bereft of aircraft and wider spending reductions designed to cure us of
a decadent habit of borrowing from countries with fiercer work ethics to
subsidise an unsustainable public realm.

Take all these things together and one gets a picture of Britain as a neglected
outpost of a flaccid empire in terminal decline. As UKIP's Nigel Farage pointed
out the GBP 45million-a day cost of our EU membership matches almost exactly the
cutbacks spelled out by George Osborne over the next four years.

If the Brussels elite possessed either wisdom or humility it would react to
these dismal trends by changing direction: cutting costs and going for growth.
As John Bruton, the former Irish taoiseach, put it earlier this year: "We need a
new way of thinking, enhanced orientation towards finding ways to earn a living
from meeting the needs of the rest of the world." (Translation: it's time Europe
pulled its finger out. ) Instead the riders on the EU gravy train are doing the
opposite. This week MEPs voted to increase the EU's financial demands on its
broke member states by almost six per cent next year, while EU Budget
Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski revived the ambition of Brussels to gain its own
tax-raising powers. And the European Parliament endorsed a new directive that
stipulates new mothers should be entitled to 20 weeks' maternity leave on full
pay.

This could cost nearly GBP 3billion a year in Britain alone and will be regarded
by employers as yet another reason not to hire extra staff, particularly women
of child-bearing age. Given Britain's ability over recent years to opt out of
the very worst Brussels regulations our unemployment rate has mercifully
remained below the EU average.

But this makes us a target for the unemployed of other EU nations.

So, if and when our private sector begins creating serious numbers of jobs,
British workers made redundant through public sector austerity measures will
face massive competition from foreigners for new employment opportunities.

Welfare reform will also be impeded at the bottom of the labour market by the
arrival of new waves of Eastern Europeans to take jobs that ministers hope will
be filled by longterm benefits claimants.

The events of the past week have tied all these strands together to form a
tapestry of decline. Europe isn't working. It is a collection of lazy, flabby
societies sinking under the weight of unrealistic expectations. The case of
those who wish Britain to break free of the EU grows ever stronger.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TEARS: Two demonstrators take cover from CS gas in Paris this week
after French riot police confronted protests against raising the pension age

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 23, 2010 Saturday

Former City boss admits paying bribes for contracts

BYLINE: Rob Evans

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 334 words


The former chief executive of a City firm founded and chaired by former Ukip
leader Lord Pearson yesterday admitted paying "very substantial bribes" to win
contracts overseas.

The 50-year-old chief executive, Julian Messent, pleaded guilty to funnelling
corrupt payments of £1.2m to three officials in Costa Rica, although he claimed
other senior managers knew about the bribes.

Messent had run the PWS insurance firm from which Lord Pearson, who stepped down
as Ukip leader in September, made his fortune.

Hodge Malek, QC for the Serious Fraud Office, told Southwark crown court in
London that the "very substantial" bribes were paid in 41 instalments between
1999 and 2002.

The covert payments were routed through bank accounts in the names of the wives
of two of the Costa Rican officials and through accounts in Panama and the US,
and a travel agency in Florida.

David Perry, Messent's QC, said he had not concealed the illicit payments from
other PWS staff.

He added that the details were known to the heads of the finance department and
the compliance unit, the internal watchdog responsible for monitoring the
conduct of staff.

He said it was clear that "the corruption could not have been conducted by
Messent alone".

He also claimed that arrangements for the corrupt payments had been "inherited"
by Messent when he became head of the firm's Latin America department in 1996.

Messent was appointed the firm's chief executive in 2003 and resigned three
years later after investigations into the payments began.

Lord Pearson was chairman of the company when the corrupt payments were made.
The peer was not suspected of any wrongdoing by the SFO. Last year, he told the
Guardian that he knew "absolutely nothing about the alleged payments".

Malek told Judge Geoffrey Rivlin that the exposure of the bribery was "one of
the factors" in the firm going into administration in 2008. He added that the
SFO believed that Messent was the "directing" mind behind the corruption.

Messent is due to be sentenced on Tuesday.

LOAD-DATE: October 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 21, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

British payments to EU set to rise £900m next year

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 685 words


THE European Parliament voted through a budget rise yesterday that will cost
Britain an extra £900 million next year - on the day George Osborne announced
deep cuts to public spending.

A £6.5billion EU budget rise that would increase EU spending by six per cent to
£114.5billion - of which £9.2 billion would be the British contribution - was
voted through by MEPs in Strasbourg.

The increase, which Britain has so far failed to block, will cost the British
taxpayer an extra £884 million and is a sum equivalent to the costs of employing
an additional 14,000 NHS doctors, 29,000 nurses, 34,000 police constables or
52,000 Army privates. David Cameron was questioned over the "obscene" Strasbourg
vote by back-bench Conservative MPs during Prime Minister's Questions and
pledged to oppose the increase during negotiations in Brussels next month.

"We need to make sure that Europe starts to live within its means," he said.
"We've called for a cash freeze in the size of the EU budget for 2011 and we're
working hard to make this case across Europe."

Included in the EU assem-bly's budget demands is a staffing increase of 388
posts to swell the ranks of the 6,166 civil servants who assist the work of 736
MEPs.

On top of that, cash is also set aside for an additional £32,000 a year towards
new MEP assistants or pay rises for existing researchers who can earn up to
£80,000 a year.

More than 50 assistants or researchers are already paid between £68,000 and
£80,000 a year - more than the salary paid to Westminster MPs.

Despite the creation of a new EU diplomatic service, at a cost of £399million
next year, the parliament is also planning to open new offices in New York,
Beijing and Moscow, replicating existing European representations and missions.

As MEPs agreed to increase their staff and to open new offices around the world,
Mr Osborne's announcement is expected to lead to the cutting of 500,000 public
sector jobs.

Daniel Hannan, the Conservative MEP for South-east England, attacked his
colleagues for voting through budget increases that would undermine attempts by
national governments to cut public spending.

"This vote shows how utterly divorced MEPs are from reality and how far the
European parliament is from a representative body," he said. "There is not a
country in Europe that is not going through cuts but we have a situation where
the EU is sucking up the savings."

MEPs also voted to double the parliament's budget for champagne receptions,
increased spending on their courtesy limousines and maintained £8million in
funding for Europarl television, despite refusing to release the channel's
viewing figures, thought to be in the hundreds.

Marta Andreassen, a Ukip MEP and member of the parliament's budget committee,
said: "European taxpayers will rightly feel that they have been mugged by their
own elected representatives."

But Sidonia Jedrzejewska, a Polish centre-Right MEP, who drew up the
parliament's budget demand, insisted that she had shown restraint by not asking
for even more.

"The European Parliament has demonstrated much self discipline," she said. "The
budget of the EU is not similar to a national budget. It is oriented towards
investment and is a tool for fighting the crisis."

Jerzy Buzek, the parliament's president, said: "Cuts cannot be simply populist
measures limiting many possibilities, for example for education, training or
research."

MEPs back new maternity rights

New EU maternity and paternity rights voted through the European Parliament
yesterday will cost British businesses £3billion a year.

MEPs passed proposals that will extend maternity leave to 20 weeks on full pay
and introduce a compulsory, paid fortnight of time off for fathers.

The parliament voted for the proposals despite an internal study that found that
the new maternity rights would cost £102billion, shaving one per cent off growth
at a time when European economies were struggling out of recession.

Edite Estrela, a Portuguese Socialist MEP, said the parliament was ready to take
on national governments over the issue. "This is a great day for new parents,"
she said. "The costs are minimal."

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Licia Ronzulli, an Italian MEP, with her seven-week-old baby during the
vote on maternity rights
EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     October 21, 2010 Thursday 3:46 PM GMT

George Osborne deserves some credit - he may just get us out of this mess

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1041 words


I have taken a little time before commenting on yesterday's statement by the
Chancellor. It is all to easy to become fixated on one aspect or another of his
plan to get us out of the ruinous situation created by Tony Blair, Gordon Brown
and their friends.

The first thing to understand is that "we could not go on like that". We have a
structural annual deficit of over 100 billion. That is, even if the economy was
in good shape, with low unemployment, we would be piling up another 100 billion
a year of debt.

Our debts are already costing us 43 billion a year. That no more benefits us as
a nation than the interest on credit cards benefits an indebted individual. The
Labour government which piled up these debts had no realistic plan to deal with
either the deficit or the debts that they had run up.

Yet despite all the fulminations about "savage cuts", the Chancellor will not
reduce public spending, either this year, or in the future. He will spend 651
billion next year, then 655 billion, 679 billion and 693 billion in 2014/15.
Even in the Labour Party, someone must see that those numbers are rising, not
falling. Of course, they are not adjusted for inflation, but right now there is
not much of that.

Setting aside for a moment the question of fairness, what we can all see is that
it has not been, for example, defence spending which has been responsible for
the explosion of spending over the lifetime of the Labour Government. It has
been welfare, the NHS and education. The first two are the real big spenders.
The schools budget costs less than debt interest. Defence costs less than
schools. For some good, and some less good, reasons the Government was committed
to increase spending on the NHS. That made it inevitable that welfare spending
would be squeezed, with its growth being curtailed.

The logic of the numbers is clear. You have to look to the big costs to find the
big savings. The only alternative was to raise taxes beyond the increase in VAT.
That would have been madness. Had it been left to me I would have done a good
many things differently to Mr Osborne, but they would have been on the margins
of the big picture which he described this week.

The final question is, will it work in stabilising our finances and returning
the economy to growth, so that we may begin to pay down debt and secure that
most welcome cut of all - that of debt interest? That, I'm afraid, we cannot
know for certain yet. We will be affected by world forces we cannot control. It
will depend on the reaction of millions of spenders, savers, workers and
employers.

I am far from pessimistic, and it is certain that we now have a better chance of
success than we did at this time last year. And that is to the credit of Mr
Osborne.

...

I am sorry that the time taken by being present in Parliament to hear the
statements on defence and on the spending review, and writing blogs on them, has
left me unable to devote as much time as I would like to responding to your
various posts. I hope you will all forgive me for that.

As usual some were full of good sense and some were, well, to put it gently,
not.

I think it fair to say that the overwhelming majority of you shared my doubts
and worries about whether William Hague's words gave any real assurance that the
Lib-Dem/Con Coalition is determined to stop the EU power grab, let alone turn it
back. Curiously, quite late on, after the 175 or 200 comments there was a sudden
surge of hostile comments, many quite abusive, all singing from the same song
sheet. I can't help wondering who organised that and why, but I have no
intention of responding in kind.

Pogleswoodsman coined the word "nebulosity" describing the Coalition statement
on these matters,and asked how will the Conservative party defeat Labour in 2015
if it goes on like this. A good many of you felt the Conservative Party is
beyond redemption, some advocating UKIP as the solution, but suboptimal planet
took the view that a breakaway party would not win. Perhaps derfe had something
when he suggested that he did not think that the Tory Party is lost to the EU,
but just its Left wing. While suboptimal planet's solution was PR, others agreed
with me that the best option open at present is to seize control of the Party
from the grassroots, although in a long and interesting post sheumais argued
that there was no hope in any of the three major parties.

It may well be that alanbutler79 is right and "we have lost the battle", but
whether or not that is so, we have not lost the war. As daniele said, of course
we can leave the EU and if we did, what would they do?   Declare war?

It was good of like-the-roman to quote from my letter to him about the Irish
dilemma, and I thought that ben-arnulfssen's shrew analysis of the Tory party's
equally painful dilemma was well worth a read.

There was another good question posed by better-out-than-in. What, he asked,
does the EU offer to persuade so many otherwise sensible folk to defect to its
ranks. As he put it, "Lord T has been there and must have had his collar felt by
the EU Gestapo. What do they offer?" It is perhaps a question better addressed
to that one time scourge of the EU, Lord Kinnock. I was once invited to a
meeting of the Bilderburg Group. I went and expressed my views and was never
invited again.

Emmien wrote, rather critically, that he had not noticed the Crown as a bulwark
of the people. Nor did he notice, if I may say so, that I used the future
conditional tense.

Comments on my blog post about the defence review came thick and fast. So many
(425 at the last count) that I cannot do more than say that with a few eccentric
exceptions, we pretty much all agreed that we have stumbled into tiger country,
and are not well equipped for that territory.

I agree that some decisions could have been better thought through.  However, I
do not think that all our politicians are party to a monstrous plot against our
country.  The Government did inherit a disastrous situation. But no, they are
not all in a worldwide Zionist conspiracy.  However, as I have said before,
there are natural laws that dictate that just as water needs no conspiracy to
run down hill,  rats have no need to conspire to assemble in sewers, nor fools
to assemble in socialist parties.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Imperial beats metric measurements in logic stakes;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 173 words


SIR - Bob Pearson claims the metric system is logical and rejects the accusation
that its imposition was "totalitarian" (Letters, October 18).

The metric system is based on the metre, which is derived from a 19th-century
calculation of the circumference of the Earth, which proved to be inaccurate.
Imperial measures are based on human dimensions.

While counting in tens is useful for scientists and engineers, for the rest of
us the dozen, score and gross have greater flexibility due to the larger number
of factors available.

In France, after two centuries of the decimal system, bottles of beer are still
packed in cases of 24.

A system which ignores the human and practical in order to comply with an
abstract idea which is claimed to be logical, is indeed totalitarian. Shaun
Priestley Greetland, West Yorkshire SIR - Bob Pearson tells us that we must be
familiar with metric measurements, and by extension we must be legally forced to
use them. I am familiar with arsenic, but I choose not to take it.

Nigel Farage MEP (Ukip)

Westerham, Kent

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Sants gets another battering by Bloom;
CityDiary

BYLINE: Jonathan Russell

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 183 words


GODFREY Bloom's at it again. The UKIP MEP's battles with the FSA (heckling
Mansion House speeches, publicly denouncing the organisation) have made regular
appearances in this column. Now it appears the regulator is fighting back.

I understand Bloom's office received a letter complaining about "inaccuracies"
in a column he wrote for Money Marketing earlier this month. The letter from FSA
chief executive Hector Sants was fairly measured stuff. "I would be grateful if
you do not repeat this incorrect statement in future". (It was about pay
increases at the FSA).

Bloom's response to Sants was more, er, heartfelt: "Not for the first time I
have received a letter claiming inaccuracy in an article on your deeply flawed
organisation. If you took the trouble to read my article carefully and set aside
the appalling arrogance of your office you would see... I was writing about the
salary increases and bonuses of the previous year. This is so typical of the
scattergun, unthinking approach of the FSA."

Bloom then went on to challenge the FSA's chairman to a public debate.

How could Lord Turner say no?

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Sarkozy and Merkel soften new euro rules: Budget deficit sanctions will be prey
to politicking: France joins call to reopen Lisbon Treaty

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 597 words


Germany and France have agreed to soften a rigid new regime of fines for
countries breaking the eurozone's budget rules a week before a crucial EU summit
is supposed to ratify a punitive system aimed at shoring up the single currency.

Senior EU officials preparing the new rules, which have been devised to immunise
the euro against another Greek-style collapse, put a brave face on the sudden
Franco-German hijack yesterday.

But European commission officials conceded that there had been a Franco-German
stitch-up to weaken the way the new euro regime would operate and to leave it
open to political horsetrading.

In a another highly contentious move, Angela Merkel, the German chancellor,
Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, also agreed to reopen the Lisbon Treaty,
the EU's quasi-constitution, in order to force countries that find themselves in
a crisis, such as the one suffered by Greece, to declare insolvency and to
forfeit their voting rights in EU councils.

At a summit in Normandy on Monday, Sarkozy yielded to German pressure to reopen
the treaty in return for Berlin's dropping its insistence that sanctions for
fiscal sinners in the eurozone be automatic. The call to reopen the treaty will
run into strong resistance, with European leaders exhausted by the bad-tempered
nine years it took to finalise the Lisbon pact which came into force last year.

It could also spell trouble for David Cameron, the prime minister, who opposed
the treaty and will come under pressure to hold a referendum in Britain if it is
renegotiated. "Now is the chance for cast-iron Dave to make good on his reneged
promise to hold an EU referendum. I'll believe that when I see it," said Marta
Andreasen, the Ukip MEP.

For the past six months, EU leaders have been drawing up plans for "European
economic governance" as a response to the sovereign debt crisis in Greece that
nearly destroyed the euro. Insisting that the Greek disaster must never be
allowed to happen again, they stressed that there would be new disciplines for
the 16 countries using the euro, entailing swingeing fines for debt and deficit
delinquents.

Herman Van Rompuy, the EU council president, was put in charge of a "task force"
of finance officials from across the EU to draft the new regime. It met for the
last time on Monday and its proposals go to an EU summit next week.

Under the draft laws from Olli Rehn, commissioner for monetary affairs,
countries would face fines of 0.2% of GDP for flouting the stability and growth
pact, the euro rulebook which limits budget deficits to 3% of GDP and national
debt levels to 60%. The penalties would come almost automatically, decided by
the commission and could only be stopped subsequently by a qualified majority
vote of EU governments. The system was designed to avoid inevitable political
trade-offs if the decisions were taken by EU governments.

Germany, as the EU's fiscal disciplinarian, was the strongest supporter of the
automatic fines and the commission. Sarkozy led the opposition, arguing for the
primacy of politics and elected governments over national budgets.

"Back in 2004 it was France and Germany that weakened the stability pact. Now
they are doing it again," said a senior commission official.

The German media despaired of Merkel's concessions. "The government has failed
grandiosely in its campaign to make the new stability pact a real instrument of
budget discipline," said FT Deutschland,

Captions:

Nicolas Sarkozy, the French president, and Angela Merkel, the German chancellor,
met in Deauville, France, yesterday Photograph: Remy de la Mauviniere/AP

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                 1 Star Edition

I DON'T WANT THE SWIVELEYED, [...];
POINTS OF DISORDER 1

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 68 words


I DON'T want the swiveleyed, Ukip anti-Europe party to prosper. I hope the
foam-frothers disappear down the Channel Tunnel.

But even an ill-wisher like me can see Ukip would be stupid not to elect Nigel
Fa r a g e , above, as leader a second time. He's articulate, entertaining and a
frighteningly plausible frontman so I hope they don't.

Farage deserves better than Ukip. Let's hope Ukip doesn't appreciate Farage.

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday

Britain - Firms try to sway EU maternity vote

BYLINE: Lizzie Cocker

LENGTH: 361 words


Business leaders who attacked proposals to increase statutory maternity leave at
full pay to 20 weeks were accused of putting out false information by equalities
campaigners yesterday.

Prior to today's European Parliament vote on changes to the EU Pregnant Workers
Directive, far-right UK Independence Party MEP Godfrey Bloom said this would put
off businesses from hiring women of "child-bearing" age and would be a
"ludicrous interference between employer and employee."

The British Chamber of Commerce said the reported cost to Britain of £2.5
billion a year to cater for the change was "eye-watering."

But Maternity Action director Rosalind Bragg said: "There is a lot of
misinformation put out by business organisations.

"Employers are fully reimbursed for the cost of statutory maternity pay and
small companies receive 104.5 per cent of statutory maternity pay.

"There are several very concrete and measurable benefits to the economy from
having increased maternity leave and pay," she said.

"It is associated with improvements in maternal and child health and so reduces
demand on the health system."

She also said maternity leave led to more women in work, increasing tax receipts
and reducing pressure on the welfare budget.

The Equality and Human Rights Commission (EHRC) submitted a briefing to the
European Commission urging that any debate over maternity leave should look at
"not just the costs but the potential benefits."

A spokeswoman added that, if passed in Parliament, it would take three years
before any changes were introduced in Britain, leaving plenty of time to discuss
if it is an "investment worth making."

Current EU rules require member states to offer 14 weeks maternity leave paid at
no less than sickness pay. In Britain pregnant women are entitled to six weeks
maternity leave at 90 per cent of their average pay, followed by 33 weeks on
statutory maternity pay of nearly £125 a week.

The EHRC said 18 EU member states already had laws which were comparable to that
being voted on in Brussels.

Even in comparatively poor countries such as Estonia and Poland maternity leave
and pay are more generous than in Britain.

lizziecocker@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           October 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Fury over EU 'taxes'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 46 words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats want to tax British citizens with a "Euro levy" and abolish
the £3billion-a-year rebate Britain receives from Europe.

But angry UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen accused the EU of behaving like a thief and
said: "They want to plunder the pockets of British taxpayers."

LOAD-DATE: October 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NEW EU TAX ON THE WAY;
It could cost you hundreds Anger as Eurocrats plan to wring more cash out of
Britons

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 651 words


AN AUDACIOUS attempt by Brussels politicians to slap more crippling taxes on
British citizens will be launched today.

European Union Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski is set to revive plans for
a taxation system across all 27 member nations that could see hard-pressed
British households being squeezed out of hundreds of pounds more each year.

With astonishing timing, the move comes just a day before Chancellor George
Osborne unveils a swingeing programme of austerity cuts in response to this
country's deficit crisis.

Last night, senior Tory MP Bill Cash said: "The idea of an EU tax is utterly
unacceptable.

"The people who decide the taxation of this country exclusively are those in the
Westminster Parliament on behalf of the voters of the UK."

His fellow Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell added: "Yet again, the EU is
demonstrating an insatiable appetite for power and taxpayers' money." He said
the coalition Government had to show more than "wishful thinking" to defeat the
latest onslaught from Brussels.

Foreign Office insiders insist Tory ministers, including Foreign Secretary
William Hague, are determined to oppose the direct tax plan, which will be
discussed by senior European politicians today - the first step in a huge
wrangle over the EU's budget from 2014 to 2020.

15 Mr Lewandowski is understood to favour cutting financial contributions from
national governments and raising the tax directly from businesses and citizens
instead.

One Brussels official said: "He will present a list of eight options without
necessarily picking one or the other."

Options expected to be proposed in an EU report today include levies on carbon
emissions, air transport, financial transactions or bank profits. There could
even be extra taxes on petrol.

Today's UK Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "This tax will be an
extra burden, however it is levied.

"If it is slapped on banks, they will pass the cost to the customer. The
taxpayer will always be the loser. The Commission is outrageous and deceitful."

EU bureaucrats, already braced for a North West Coast: It will with showers,
although be drier during the afternoon. northwesterly breeze. High South West
Coast: Sunny scattered showers, although drier during the afternoon. northwest
wind. Chilly. High South Central Ireland: It mainly dry and bright but chance of
a light shower massive backlash, have advised officials to avoid using the word
"tax" because it would be "politically explosive".

Britain, France and Germany have already opposed the plan, but smaller economic
nations including Spain and Belgium have suggested it might be worth exploring.

French minister Pierre Lellouche described the move as "perfectly illtimed",
arguing that the EU should be looking to make savings instead.

The EU wants to raise its annual budget by 6 per cent at a time European
national governments are making austerity savings.

The move will be discussed as part of a debate on the EU budget. A vote is
expected tomorrow - the day Britain's coalition Government will reveal how it
plans to cut spending by £83billion to bring down a record peacetime budget
deficit .

EU chiefs have already indicated that they want to scrap the remains of
Britain's multi-billion pound annual rebate, won by Margaret Thatcher in

1984. Tory Europe Minister David Lidington said: "The European Parliament's
demand is outrageous. I do not think it can be in the slightest bit justified."

Adding that the European Parliament was "are getting out of touch with the
peoples of Europe", he went on: "I think they need to wake up and realise the
kind of world that we are living in."

Euro-sceptic Tory MPs last week fired a warning shot at the Government against
any possible surrender of power to Brussels.

More than 30 of them broke ranks by voting in favour of a cut in Britain's
contribution to the EU after a Government motion had proposed freezing the
budget contribution.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: William Hague opposes EU budget plan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Anger as Eurocrats plan to wring more cash out of Britons

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 418 words


An AudAcious attempt by Brussels politicians to slap more crippling taxes on
Britain will be launched today.

European union Budget commissioner Janusz Lewandoswky is set to revive plans for
a taxation system across all 27 member nations that could see hard-pressed
British households being squeezed out of hundreds of pounds more each year.

With astonishing timing, the move comes just a day before chancellor George
osborne unveils a swingeing programme of austerity cuts in response to this
country's deficit crisis.

Last night, senior Tory MP Bill cash said: "The idea of an Eu tax is utterly
unacceptable. The people who decide the taxation of this country exclusively are
those in the Westminster Parliament in behalf of the voters of the uK."

His fellow conservative backbencher douglas carswell said: "Yet again, the Eu is
demonstrating an insatiable appetite for power and taxpayers' money." He said
the coalition Government had to show more than "wishful thinking" to defeat the
latest onslaught from Brussels.

Foreign office insiders insist Tory ministers, including Foreign secretary
William Hague, are determined to oppose the direct tax plan, which will be
discussed by senior European politicians today - the first step in a wrangle
over the Eu's 21014-2020 budget.

Mr Lewandoswky is understood to favour cutting financial contributions from
national governments and raising the tax directly from businesses and citizens
instead.

one Brussels official said: "He will present a list of eight options without
necessarily picking one or the other."

options expected to be proposed in an Eu report today include levies on carbon
emissions, air transport, financial transactions or bank profits. There could
even be extra taxes on petrol.

uK independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "This tax will be an extra
burden, however it is levied. if it is slapped on banks, they will pass the cost
to the customer. The taxpayer will always be the loser. The commission is
outrageous and deceitful."

Eu bureaucrats, already braced for a massive backlash, have advised officials to
avoid using the word "tax" because it would be "politically explosive".

Britain, France and Germany have already opposed the plan, but smaller economic
nations including spain and Belgium have said it's worth exploring.

The Eu wants to raise its annual budget by 6 per cent at a time European
national governments are making austerity savings. The move will be discussed in
a debate on the Eu budget and a vote is expected tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: William Hague opposes EU budget plan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NEW EU TAX ON THE WAY

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 605  words


It could cost you hundreds

AN AUDACIOUS attempt by Brussels politicians to slap more crippling taxes on
British citizens will be launched today.

European Union Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski is set to revive plans for
a taxation system across all 27 member nations that could see hard-pressed
British households being squeezed out of hundreds of pounds more each year.

With astonishing timing, the move comes just a day before Chancellor George
Osborne unveils a swingeing programme of austerity cuts in response to this
country's deficit crisis.

Last night, senior Tory MP Bill Cash said: "The idea of an EU tax is utterly
unacceptable.

"The people who decide the taxation of this country exclusively are those in the
Westminster Parliament on behalf of the voters of the UK."

His fellow Tory backbencher Douglas Carswell added: "Yet again, the EU is
demonstrating an insatiable appetite for power and taxpayers' money." He said
the coalition Government had to show more than "wishful thinking" to defeat the
latest onslaught from Brussels.

Foreign Office insiders insist Tory ministers, including Foreign Secretary
William Hague, are determined to oppose the direct tax plan, which will be
discussed by senior European politicians today - the first step in a huge
wrangle over the EU's budget from 2014 to 2020.

Mr Lewandowski is understood to favour cutting financial contributions from
national governments and raising the tax directly from businesses and citizens
instead.

One Brussels official said: "He will present a list of eight options without
necessarily picking one or the other."

Options expected to be proposed in an EU report today include levies on carbon
emissions, air transport, financial transactions or bank profits. There could
even be extra taxes on petrol.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "This tax will be an extra
burden, however it is levied.

"If it is slapped on banks, they will pass the cost to the customer. The
taxpayer will always be the loser. The Commission is outrageous and deceitful."

EU bureaucrats, already braced for a massive backlash, have advised officials to
avoid using the word "tax" because it would be "politically explosive".

Britain, France and Germany have already opposed the plan, but smaller economic
nations including Spain and Belgium have suggested it might be worth exploring.

French minister Pierre Lellouche described the move as "perfectly illtimed",
arguing that the EU should be looking to make savings instead.

The EU wants to raise its annual budget by 6 per cent at a time European
national governments are making austerity savings.

The move will be discussed as part of a debate on the EU budget. A vote is
expected tomorrow - the day Britain's coalition Government will reveal how it
plans to cut spending by GBP 83billion to bring down a record peacetime budget
deficit.

EU chiefs have already indicated that they want to scrap the remains of
Britain's multi-billion pound annual rebate, won by Margaret Thatcher in 1984.
Tory Europe Minister David Lidington said: "The European Parliament's demand is
outrageous. I do not think it can be in the slightest bit justified."

Adding that the European Parliament was "are getting out of touch with the
peoples of Europe", he went on: "I think they need to wake up and realise the
kind of world that we are living in."

Euro-sceptic Tory MPs last week fired a warning shot at the Government against
any possible surrender of power to Brussels.

More than 30 of them broke ranks by voting in favour of a cut in Britain's
contribution to the EU after a Government motion had proposed freezing the
budget contribution.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: William Hague opposes EU budget plan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Anger as Eurocrats plan to wring more cash out of Britons

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 418  words


AN AUDACIOUS attempt by Brussels politicians to slap more crippling taxes on
Britain will be launched today.

European Union Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandoswky is set to revive plans for
a taxation system across all 27 member nations that could see hard-pressed
British households being squeezed out of hundreds of pounds more each year.

With astonishing timing, the move comes just a day before Chancellor George
Osborne unveils a swingeing programme of austerity cuts in response to this
country's deficit crisis.

Last night, senior Tory MP Bill Cash said: "The idea of an EU tax is utterly
unacceptable. The people who decide the taxation of this country exclusively are
those in the Westminster Parliament in behalf of the voters of the UK."

His fellow Conservative backbencher Douglas Carswell said: "Yet again, the EU is
demonstrating an insatiable appetite for power and taxpayers' money."

He said the coalition Government had to show more than "wishful thinking" to
defeat the latest onslaught from Brussels.

Foreign Office insiders insist Tory ministers, including Foreign Secretary
William Hague, are determined to oppose the direct tax plan, which will be
discussed by senior European politicians today - the first step in a wrangle
over the EU's 21014-2020 budget.

Mr Lewandoswky is understood to favour cutting financial contributions from
national governments and raising the tax directly from businesses and citizens
instead.

One Brussels official said: "He will present a list of eight options without
necessarily picking one or the other."

Options expected to be proposed in an EU report today include levies on carbon
emissions, air transport, financial transactions or bank profits. There could
even be extra taxes on petrol.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "This tax will be an extra
burden, however it is levied. I f it is slapped on banks, they will pass the
cost to the customer. The taxpayer will always be the loser. The Commission is
outrageous and deceitful."

EU bureaucrats, already braced for a massive backlash, have advised officials to
avoid using the word "tax" because it would be "politically explosive".

Britain, France and Germany have already opposed the plan, but smaller economic
nations including Spain and Belgium have said it's worth exploring.

The EU wants to raise its annual budget by 6 per cent at a time European
national governments are making austerity savings. The move will be discussed in
a debate on the EU budget and a vote is expected tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: William Hague opposes EU budget plan

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      October 19, 2010 Tuesday 2:15 PM GMT

Chris Huhne's favourite yoghurt ingredient

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1437 words


Let me explain the analogy, which I first introduced to a nauseated world in a
Spectator column penned in bile in the aftermath the Eton Grocer's spectacular
general election non-victory. Here's the relevant passage:

Quite the most absurd piece of recrimination I've heard so far from the
Cameroons, though, is the notion that the real people to blame for all this are
those 900,000 or so folk who voted UKIP, as well as all those rabid head-banging
types like James Delingpole who were so unhelpful in pointing out the flaws in
Project Cameron's splendid policies. If only we'd held our noses and accepted
that the Cameroons, for all their flaws, were our last hope of restoring
Conservatism to power in Britain, then Dave might be in position right now to
effect Real Change.

This is what I call the Dog S**t Yoghurt Fallacy. Suppose your preferred brand
of fruit yoghurt manufacturer has been losing sales of late and has decided,
after doing a bit of market research, that it may be necessary to alter the
formula slightly. What at least some of the punters are clamouring for these
days, it seems, is not chunks of fruit in their yoghurt but bits of dog poo
instead.

"But that's revolting!" you tell the manager of your preferred yoghurt brand.
"Fruit goes way better in yoghurt than dog poo does." "Look, you know that and I
know that, but trust me we've crunched the numbers, done the research and it's
the only way. If we don't put some dog poo in our yoghurt, then people will say
we haven't moved with the times. We'll be forever stuck in the boring, fuddy
duddy age of strawberry, and raspberry and apricot. But under Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown, the public have acquired a real taste for excrement. If we don't
give it to them - we'll only need a little bit, I promise - then we'll probably
go out of business."

"No you won't!" you reply. "There are loads of us who still like fruit yoghurt.
And still loads more who'd buy it if you made it even fruitier. Your analysis is
barmy." "Well I'm sorry sir, but our marketing expert Mister Hilton assures us
there's no other way. Surely, you won't object to just the inclusion of a tiny
hint of merde de chien to save our brand from total ruin?"

Call me weird, call me stubborn. But I prefer my yoghurt to taste of fruit, real
fruit and nothing but fruit.

As you see, I was talking mainly about the death of the Conservative party. But
the analogy applies just as well to the Coalition's energy policy, as supervised
by the appalling Chris Huhne with the full encouragement of the no less
appalling David Cameron.

In this case, the fruit element of the yoghurt would be nuclear energy. Nuclear
energy is good. It's what we need, both for energy security and to fill our
looming energy gap. Only a total nutcase could possibly be opposed to nuclear
energy, as my colleague Louise Gray has been demonstrating with her ring-round
of the asylums:

But Mike Childs, head of climate change at Friends of the Earth, insisted the
expansion of nuclear power could not go ahead without some form of public
subsidy because of the massive costs of construction.

"It is not obvious to see how nuclear will be affordable without some form of
public subsidy because the costs keep rising of building nuclear and getting
rid of the waste," he said.

"The only way nuclear will get built is if they [the Coalition] renege on
their promise not to subsidise it."

What, and the supposed green alternative to nuclear - wind power - doesn't
require massive public subsidy on an even greater scale? Pull the other one,
Childs. According to Booker, who unlike some has actually been bothered to do
the maths, our economically suicidal attempts to meet the EU renewables target
are going to add 880 a year to our energy bills.

Which brings us to the poo element in the yoghurt: renewable energy and
decarbonisation. There are many within the Coalition and indeed in the country
at large who take what they imagine is a 'sophisticated' line on Climate Change.
As to whether or not it's a serious threat and to what degree it is or isn't
"man made" they don't much care. What motivates them is a vague sense that some
climate change action is better than no climate change action, that it's
probably quite useful to keep the Caroline Lucas fringe onside, and that there
might be some green jobs in it for someone somewhere. In other words: "Let's
just put a few lumps of dog poo in the yoghurt, just in case. No harm done if it
turns out to have been unnecessary, eh?"

Er, no actually. In the name of the "precautionary principle" on Climate Change,
quite enormous amounts of harm are being done. Richard North gives an example of
this in his scathing dismissal of Chris Huhne's new carbon capture project,
which will cost the taxpayer 1 billion to no purpose whatsoever:

Whichever way you look at it, 1 billion is a lot of money. That is
1,000,000,000.00, and it isour money - more money than you and I will ever see,
or ever dream of  earning. It is a sum of money that would buy 150,000 hip
replacement  operations. It would pay the energy bills for two million
pensioners for  a full year, or pay the university fees for 600,000 students.
More  specifically, and of some personal interest, it would pay for 100,000
life-saving heart operations.

Yet the ****wit pictured is going to take that amount of money from us to play
around stripping plant food from  coal-fired electricity generation and bury it
deep in a hole in the  ground.

This man, therefore, will - indirectly - be responsible for many deaths,  lost
in "opportunity costs". The money frittered away on this moronic  enterprise
cannot be spent on life-saving functions. And we do not have  the money to
spare. If we waste this money, it is not available for  anything else.  People
will die because of this action.

And what about this:

[Huhne] is set to give the go ahead to a new generation of eight nuclear power
stations, alongside an expansion of renewable energy and the creation of up
to 44,000 wind turbines.

Anyone care to hazard how much environmental damage is going to be done to our
countryside by 44,000 - count 'em - wind turbanes? How many birds - and
protected bats (H/T Ian Smith)- are going to be liquidised? How many views
spoiled? How many householders impoverished?

Oh and let's dispense once and for all with the idea that renewables bring any
economic benefits. The green experiment has already been attempted in Spain and
Germany and has failed dismally. Why? Because renewables only make economic
sense if they are subsidised by the taxpayer - which means of course that they
make no economic sense at all.

Here's a report on the Spanish disaster (H/T Global Warming Policy Foundation)

Spain stands as a lesson to other aspiring green-energy nations, including China
and the U.S., by showing how difficult it is to build an alternative energy
industry even with billions of euros in subsidies, says Ramon de la Sota, a
private investor in Spanish photovoltaic panels and a former General Electric
Co. executive.

"The government totally overshot with the tariff," de la Sota says. "Now they
have a huge bill to pay - but where's the technology, where's the know-how,
where's the value?"

And here is the German energy disaster:

Next year, German households are  in for a big price shock: the renewable
energies levy, which every  household in Germany has to pay as part of their
electricity bills, will  increase by over 70 per cent to 3.5 cents per kilowatt
hour. This was  announced by the German network operator on Friday. For an
average  household this will mean additional costs of around 10 (EURO) a month,
according to the Federal Environment Ministry.An end to the price spiral, which
is  caused by the subsidies for green electricity, is not in sight. Holger
Krawinkel,  energy expert of the Federation of Consumer Organizations,  expects
a further rise of the so-called EEG surcharge in the medium  term. "It will rise
by more than 5 cents in coming years in any case",  Krawinkel predicted in an
interview with the news agency DAPD. The  reason: The federal government has
failed to cut subsidies for solar  energy fast and strong enough. Moreover, the
impending boom in offshore  wind energy is not even included in the green energy
levy.

And all because a few plausible charlatans have been able to persuade an awful
lot of influential people over the years that plant food is a deadly poison.
Thanks Bert Bolin! Thanks Stephen Schneider! Thanks James Hansen! Thanks Al
Gore! Rest assured that one day - and let's hope sooner rather than later - your
names will live in infamy for all eternity.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            October 18, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Revolt over 'crazy' EU maternity pay plans

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 404 words


BRITAIN is trying to block new European laws giving women greater maternity
rights and which, it is feared, could make it harder for them to get jobs.

The European Parliament will this week vote on plans to increase fully-paid
maternity leave from 14 to 20 weeks.

The move could cost British businesses and the Government more than £2.5billion
a year. There are fears that the proposed legislation could lead to some firms
rejecting female applicants for jobs.

Conservative MEPs are preparing to vote against the legislation. Coalition
ministers are also thought to be anxious over the impact of the proposed laws as
Britain struggles with record debts.

Britain is expected to seek to block the legislation if it is passed by the
European Parliament, although senior ministers are wary of intervening to
restrict maternity pay as they are fearful of alienating mothers.

Women in Britain are entitled to 12 months off, with the first six weeks on 90
per cent pay followed by 33 weeks on Statutory Maternity Pay of just under £125
a week. The remainder is unpaid.

An "extremely close" vote is likely with a possible compromise being for 18 paid
weeks and for the level of pay to be established by member states, as originally
proposed by the European Commission.

Marina Yannakoudakis, a Tory MEP for London, said: "These proposals are going to
cost small businesses and our public services billions of pounds and lead to
further indirect discrimination against women in the workplace. National
governments should decide what maternity leave provisions they can afford, and
women should choose the best arrangements for them and their families. The EU
needs to butt out and drop this crazy proposal.

"This is a badly thought out law, being forced through without any consideration
of the far-reaching consequences." Godfrey Bloom, a Ukip MEP, warned that small
firms - which are responsible for most new jobs - would be less likely to hire
women of child-rearing age because of the potential costs if the worker got
pregnant.

Adam Marshall, the British Chambers of Commerce's director of policy, also
warned of the impact on smaller firms.

The Federation of Small Businesses also says the plans are unaffordable.

But Myria Vassiliadou of the European Women's Lobby, said it was a "myth" that
the proposal would overload businesses with costs.

£2.5bn The estimated annual cost to the Government and businesses of full
maternity pay for 20 weeks

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                October 17, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gangsters to exploit new border rules;
THUGS AND RADICALS EYE UK

BYLINE: DOMINIK LEMANSKI

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 427 words


BRITAIN could be hit by a wave of criminals from Albania and Bosnia-Herzegovina
when EU border controls are relaxed.

Immigrants from the crime-hit states will be able to travel across Europe
without a passport from next year.

According to plans outlined in a report last month, MEPs plan to grant visa-free
travel to citizens of both countries.

But experts fear drug smugglers and Muslim extremists will exploit the new rules
and try to reach the UK.

Under the Schengen Agreement, which does not currently include the UK or
Ireland, passport controls are scrapped in a bid to promote the free movement of
people and trade across Europe.

Thugs

Albanian and Bosnian criminals heading for the UK would not have to cross a
border checkpoint until they reach Calais - dubbed "the Gates to the UK".

Gangs of would-be illegal immigrants have gathered at the French ferry port in
recent years as they try to smuggle themselves into Britain.

The authorities fear their number could soon include war criminals from the
Balkans conflict in the 1990s, Albanian mafia thugs and extremists such as
Bosnian hate preacher Mustafa Ceric.

The firebrand was once dubbed the "biggest criminal in the country" by Bosnian
TV.

The UN also named Bosnia-Herzegovina as one of the key drug smuggling routes
into Western Europe.

Experts fears any loosening of visa restrictions will make this route even more
accessible to smugglers.

The UK is already favoured by crooks from the region.

Poverty-hit Albania's most-wanted criminal, Selami Cokaj, was found on the run
here last year.

He was convicted of stabbing a man to death in his homeland in 1994 but cannot
be deported as he is claiming asylum. Double murderer Imer Hoxha was recently
found living in Barnes, west London, and is also claiming asylum.

While a third man, Pjeter Lekstakaj, is wanted back in Albania for trying to
murder a man with a machine gun during a row over land in 1999.

The 61-year-old is thought to be living in Birmingham and claiming refugee
status.

Albanian gangsters control more than 75% of the UK's brothels and turn over
£15million a year in London's West End alone. As well as vice, Albanian gangs
are implicated in heroin dealing, kidnaps and street robbery.

The East European hoods are thought to be active in every UK city and were
involved in the 2006 Securitas heist which netted £53million.

Jetmir Bucpapa, 26, and Emir Hysenaj, 28, were both jailed in 2008 for their
parts in the robbery.

UKIP MEP and Civil Liberties spokesman Gerard Batten warned of the rule changes:
"This is a very bad deal for British citizens."

LOAD-DATE: October 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNWANTED: Ceric, left, and jailed Hysenaj and Bucpapa

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                October 17, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

A betrayal that will hurt Tories

BYLINE: Neil Hamilton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 897 words


IT'S a funny old world, as Mrs Thatcher observed when dumped by Tory MPs despite
being an iconic leader and undefeated in three consecutive general elections.
Politics is still a funny business. David Cameron seems to enjoy alienating
traditional Tory voters while Ed Miliband used his Commons debut as Labour
leader last week to pose as the defender of the "squeezed middle class".

By calling the Conservatives the "nasty party" and spouting all that "hug a
hoodie" twaddle before the last election, Cameron ensured that millions of
traditional Tories defected to UKIP or didn't bother to vote. Simultaneously,
Labour has ceased to be a working-class party, with fewer than 10,900 members in
the entire north of England, and is now dominated by a metropolitan,
middle-class elite.

Remarkably, Cameron failed to win an overall Commons majority despite Gordon
Brown and Labour's record unpopularity. Only 10.7 million voted Tory last May
compared with 13.8 million in Thatcher's third and last election, in 1987. Prime
Minister now only by kind permission of the Lib Dems, Cameron seems to have
learned few lessons from his electoral flop.

The recent Child Benefit fiasco shows he is still wedded to the idiocy of
alienating his middle-class base. It is obviously not fair that a single earner
on £44,000, whose spouse stays at home looking after two children, loses £1,700
whereas a couple jointly earning £83,000 lose nothing.

This is just one illustration of a perplexing political development. The Tories
concentrate on wooing the less well-off, who tend not to vote for them, at the
expense of middle-class voters who generally do. Ribbed as the champion of
richer people by David Cameron, Miliband replied that he was defending "the
primary school deputy head and the police inspector" who could have been relied
on previously to vote Tory.

THE "squeezed middle" have suffered three hammer blows in the past two weeks.
Child Benefit cuts, scrapping college tuition fees caps and now a further tax
raid on pensions. As if Brown had not done enough to wreck private-sector
pensions, George Osborne wants to slash drastically the tax relief people can
claim on their pension fund contributions.

Millionaire trust-fund beneficiary Osborne claims his measures will hit only
"the richest Britons" but workers earning between £40,000 and £50,000 a year are
not rich and could face tax demands for thousands of pounds as a result of being
pushed above the lower tax-free limits by complex Treasury rules.

This is the latest salvo fired in the Tories' bizarre war against those aspiring
to climb the economic ladder. There are many other examples. Take transferable
allowances for married couples. Although a long-held Tory aspiration, their
manifesto said the allowance would be lost if one spouse earns more than
£42,000, the same flaw that marred Child Benefit reforms. This salary can be
achieved by successful teachers or nurses. Should they really be paying a rate
designed for the rich? Again, take the 10 per cent rise in capital gains tax,
which will hit more than 100,000 people. With inflation relief abolished, CGT is
a heavy retrospective tax on long-term paper gains and particularly hits older
savers with shares or rental property as a retirement nest-egg. Osborne has also
junked plans to cut inheritance tax and dropped opposition to Brown's raising of
the top rate of income tax to 50 per cent.

Who is hit by these egalitarian measures? Not the stinking rich. Only a few
weeks ago, two hedge funds relocated to Switzerland, costing the Treasury an
estimated £200million a year in lost tax revenue. It's the "squeezed middle" who
stay and suffer, the striving classes struggling with a small business or
inching up the professional ladder. Their financial prospects are grim, what
with prices rising faster than in most other EU countries, VAT being raised in
January, cash now to be directed towards "poorer children" and diverted from
schools in leafier areas.

There are also lots more "green taxes" to come from millionaire environment
minister Chris Huhne to push up electricity and travel costs. With property
prices falling and mortgage rates likely to rise again if Osborne can't deliver
his ambitious deficit reduction plan, there seems no end to the pain.

OBVIOUSLy, welfare shouldn't be for middle-earners but the timing and scale of
welfare cuts and tax rises disproportionately hurts them. The Thatcher
government squared the circle by cutting taxes as it cut spending. Cameron can't
do that, thanks to Brown's appalling legacy and the Lib Dems, who believe in
higher taxes and State interference.

Cameron believes that, although Thatcher turned Britain into an economic dynamo,
she damaged the Conservative "brand" as her policies were erroneously thought to
reward the wealthy and abandon the poor. So he wants to suck up to the less
well-off and embrace their concerns.

Like Thatcher, he's right to think about people who have never been natural Tory
supporters. She attracted millions of hardworking, independent working-class
people who aspired to improve their lot in life. If David Cameron wants to win
an election, shouldn't he worry a bit more about those former Tories who felt
betrayed, insulted or ignored by him last May, as well as those about to swell
their numbers?

'The Conservatives are wooing the less well-off at the expense of people who
vote for them'

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUT OF TOUCH: Cameron's 'hug a hoodie' comment alienated traditional
Tories
Picture: mArtin riCKett/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 17, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A betrayal that will hurt Tories;
LEADER

BYLINE: ByNeil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 40

LENGTH: 885  words


IT'S a funny old world, as Mrs Thatcher observed when dumped by Tory MPs despite
being an iconic leader and undefeated in three consecutive general elections.
Politics is still a funny business. David Cameron seems to enjoy alienating
traditional Tory voters while Ed Miliband used his Commons debut as Labour
leader last week to pose as the defender of the "squeezed middle class".

By calling the Conservatives the "nasty party" and spouting all that "hug a
hoodie" twaddle before the last election, Cameron ensured that millions of
traditional Tories defected to UKIP or didn't bother to vote.

Simultaneously, Labour has ceased to be a working-class party, with fewer than
10,900 members in the entire north of England, and is now dominated by a
metropolitan, middle-class elite.

Remarkably, Cameron failed to win an overall Commons majority despite Gordon
Brown and Labour's record unpopularity.

Only 10.7 million voted Tory last May compared with 13.8 million in Thatcher's
third and last election, in 1987. Prime Minister now only by kind permission of
the Lib Dems, Cameron seems to have learned few lessons from his electoral flop.

The recent Child Benefit fiasco shows he is still wedded to the idiocy of
alienating his middle-class base. It is obviously not fair that a single earner
on GBP 44,000, whose spouse stays at home looking after two children, loses GBP
1,700 whereas a couple jointly earning GBP 83,000 lose nothing.

This is just one illustration of a perplexing political development. The Tories
concentrate on wooing the less well-off, who tend not to vote for them, at the
expense of middle-class voters who generally do. Ribbed as the champion of
richer people by David Cameron, Miliband replied that he was defending "the
primary school deputy head and the police inspector" who could have been relied
on previously to vote Tory.

THE "squeezed middle" have suffered three hammer blows in the past two weeks.
Child Benefit cuts, scrapping college tuition fees caps and now a further tax
raid on pensions. As if Brown had not done enough to wreck private-sector
pensions, George Osborne wants to slash drastically the tax relief people can
claim on their pension fund contributions.

Millionaire trust-fund beneficiary Osborne claims his measures will hit only
"the richest Britons" but workers earning between GBP 40,000 and GBP 50,000 a
year are not rich and could face tax demands for thousands of pounds as a result
of being pushed above the lower tax-free limits by complex Treasury rules.

This is the latest salvo fired in the Tories' bizarre war against those aspiring
to climb the economic ladder. There are many other examples. Take transferable
llowances for married couples. Although a long-held Tory aspiration, their
manifesto said the allowance would be lost if one spouse earns more than GBP
42,000, the same flaw that marred Child Benefit reforms. This salary can be
achieved by successful teachers or nurses. Should they really be paying a rate
designed for the rich?

Again, take the 10 per cent rise in capital gains tax, which will hit more than
100,000 people. With inflation relief abolished, CGT is a heavy retrospective
tax on long-term paper gains and particularly hits older savers with shares or
rental property as a retirement nest-egg. Osborne has also junked plans to cut
inheritance tax and dropped opposition to Brown's raising of the top rate of
income tax to 50 per cent.

Who is hit by these egalitarian measures? Not the stinking rich. Only a few
weeks ago, two hedge funds relocated to Switzerland, costing the Treasury an
estimated GBP 200million a year in lost tax revenue. It's the "squeezed middle"
who stay and suffer, the striving classes struggling with a small business or
inching up the professional ladder. Their financial prospects are grim, what
with prices rising faster than in most other EU countries, VAT being raised in
January, cash now to be directed towards "poorer children" and diverted from
schools in leafier areas.

There are also lots more "green taxes" to come from millionaire environment
minister Chris Huhne to push up electricit y and travel costs. With property
prices alling and mortgage rates likely to rise again if Osborne can't deliver
his ambitious deficit reduction plan, there seems no end to the pain.

OBVIOUSLY, welfare shouldn't be for middle earners but the timing and scale of
welfare cuts and tax rises disproportionatel y hurts them. The Thatcher
government squared the circle b y cutting taxes as it cut spending. Cameron
can't do that, thanks to Brown's appalling legacy and the Lib Dems, who believe
in higher taxes and State interference.

Cameron believes that, although Thatcher turned Britain into an economic dynamo,
she damaged the Conservative "brand" as her policies were erroneousl y thought
to reward the wealthy and abandon the poor. So he wants to suck up to the less
well-off and embrace their concerns.

Like Thatcher, he's right to think about people who have never been natural Tor
y supporters. She attracted millions of hardworking, independent working-class
people who aspired to improve their lot in life.

If David Cameron wants to win an election, shouldn't he worry a bit more about
those former Tories who felt betrayed, insulted or ignored by him last May, as
well as those about to swell their numbers?

LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUT OF TOUCH: Cameron's 'hug a hoodie' comment alienated traditional
Tories

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cuts, what cuts?;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 202 words


SIR - Sir Paul Judge (Letters, October 15) asks how our political debate has
failed so miserably to recognise what cuts and spending are actually planned.
One reason is that the media appear not to have read George Osborne's June
Budget report, which was published online as he was delivering it in the
Commons.

Your own Jeff Randall was one of the very few exceptions, and spelt out the
truth in the Telegraph - most clearly three months after the June Budget and its
mythical cuts.

Almost everyone else - especially at the BBC - appears to have swallowed the
myth without a second thought. Ian Milne Isfield, East Sussex SIR - I
wholeheartedly agree with Peter Oborne's analysis of David Cameron and George
Osborne's unfair financial attack on the middle classes of this country
(Comment, October 15). Mr Oborne says this can easily be done because there is
nowhere else to go for the Tory voter.

Well I know where I'm going: Ukip.

Nick Denton East Molesey, Surrey SIR - It didn't take the Coalition long to
follow Gordon Brown's example of tax raids on pension funds. Perhaps Mr Cameron,
the inventor of the Big Society, could explain exactly how these taxes affect
MPs' pensions.

John Henesy Maidenhead, Berkshire

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nigel Farage could lead UKIP to much greater things

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 151 words


THIS weekend many members of the United Kingdom Independence Party will be
filling out their ballots for the election of a new leader.

Their choice will determine whether UKIP can occupy fertile territory vacated by
the Tories. Britain lacks any mainstream party that is robust on law and order,
anti-mass immigration, sceptical about the climate change industry and
passionately in favour of low taxation.

UKIP could fill this gap in the marketplace if it re-elects its former leader
Nigel Farage. He not only has the charisma necessary to make his party
attractive to the widest possible section of the electorate but also appreciates
the need for UKIP to broaden its agenda.

Any of the leadership contenders could hope to hold the high moral ground on
Europe. But Mr Farage is already a national figure and he alone has the
potential to catch the imagination of the British public.

That is why I hope he wins.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           October 16, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Nigel Farage could lead UKIP to much greater things;
LEADER

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: LEADER; 17

LENGTH: 151  words


THIS weekend many members of the United Kingdom Independence Party will be
filling out their ballots for the election of a new leader.

Their choice will determine whether UKIP can occupy fertile territory vacated by
the Tories. Britain lacks any mainstream party that is robust on law and order,
anti-mass immigration, sceptical about the climate change industry and
passionately in favour of low taxation.

UKIP could fill this gap in the marketplace if it re-elects its former leader
Nigel Farage. He not only has the charisma necessary to make his party
attractive to the widest possible section of the electorate but also appreciates
the need for UKIP to broaden its agenda.

Any of the leadership contenders could hope to hold the high moral ground on
Europe. But Mr Farage is already a national figure and he alone has the
potential to catch the imagination of the British public.

That is why I hope he wins.

LOAD-DATE: October 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AS HE bids to be [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 123 words


AS HE bids to be re-elected leader of the UK Independence Party, Nigel Farage
was denied one potentially helpful piece of publicity last night.

The politician, who was memorably lucky to survive a plane crash during the
general election campaign earlier this year, had been due as a guest on BBC1's
Question time last night.

However he was forced to pull out just hours before the programme, following
complaints that appearing would have given him an unfair advantage over rival
leadership candidates David Campbell-Bannerman, tim Congdon and winston
McKenzie.

"The producers caved in and Nigel was dropped," says one unimpressed colleague.
"Nigel had even cancelled an important fundraising dinner to go on the show so
he isn't at all happy."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 15, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 123  words


AS HE bids to be re-elected leader of the UK Independence Party, Nigel Farage
was denied one potentially helpful piece of publicity last night.

The politician, who was memorably lucky to survive a plane crash during the
general election campaign earlier this year, had been due as a guest on BBC1's
Question Time last night.

However he was forced to pull out just hours before the programme, following
complaints that appearing would have given him an unfair advantage over rival
leadership candidates David CampbellBannerman, Tim Congdon and Winston McKenzie.

"The producers caved in and Nigel was dropped, " says one unimpressed colleague.

"Nigel had even cancelled an important fundraising dinner to go on the show so
he isn't at all happy."

LOAD-DATE: October 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEPs take £350,000 study break in Madeira

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 161 words


A GROUP of 400 MEPs and staff have gone on a threeday £350,000 "study break" in
the holiday resort of Madeira.

The taxpayer-funded trip has been criticised at a time of severe austerity cuts
throughout the EU. Some 250 MEPs, 80 parliamentary assistants and 70 civil
servants working for the European People's Party (EPP), a grouping of
centre-Right MEPs, left for the island this week. Rooms have been reserved at
two five-star hotels.

The EPP has paid for the trip out of "line 400" of the EU budget which is
financed by taxpayers and can be claimed by political groups in the European
Parliament. As the biggest political grouping, the EPP is entitled to the
greatest share.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and member of the parliament's budget control
committee, said: "Why, in an economic crisis when ordinary people are being
asked to tighten their belts, do they need to go on an appalling jolly like
this?" The programme includes a review of the EU budget.

Martin Banks

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           October 14, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU chief uses £4,000 motorcade to take family to airport for holiday

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 457 words


THE EU president has been criticised for using his official motorcade to take
his family on 325-mile round trip to Paris airport for a private holiday.

Aides for Herman Van Rompuy said he used official cars and chauffeurs to take
him, his wife, four children, two of their spouses and two grandchildren more
than 162 miles to France to catch a holiday flight in August.

His motorcade was then waiting to bring the family group back to Brussels from
Paris after their holiday, thought to be in the Caribbean.

The cost of an equivalent trip, hiring three S-class Mercedes cars and drivers
from the Belgian Limo company, would be more than £4,000.

Mr Van Rompuy lives in Sint-Genesius-Rode, a Brussels suburb, less than 10 miles
from the city's Gare du Midi where frequent high-speed trains travel to Paris.

The rail connections are considered secure enough for EU heads of state and
government.

David Cameron, regarded as a greater security risk than Mr Van Rompuy, regularly
uses the Eurostar to travel from London to Brussels.

On taking office, Mr Cameron told British ministers to take the Tube or train
unless carrying classified papers. Mr Van Rompuy's aides would not discuss the
holiday but compared the family's security needs with those of President Barack
Obama. "The use of the cars was required by the security services to maintain
the chain of control, it was not asked for by the president," said Mr Van
Rompuy's spokesman.

"All costs of the private part of the holiday, down to the last euro, were met
by the president.

The security requirement was paid for out of his office budget."

Martin Callanan, a Conservative MEP for North-East England, has questioned the
"unusual" use of official cars unless there was "a specific threat for Mr Van
Rompuy on this occasion".

He said: "You do have to ask whether Mr Van Rompuy and his family really needed
a large motorcade when David Cameron, who is surely a much bigger target, can
take the Eurostar to Brussels."

Mr Van Rompuy is President of the European Council, the quarterly summits of
heads of state and government.

He earns more than £263,000 a year and is among the best paid politicians in the
world, earning more than Mr Obama and Mr Cameron. Officials say use of
chauffeurs and cars for Mr Van Rompuy's family would "seriously bend the rules"
in the other Brussels-based EU institutions, such as the European Commission.

"There are strict rules for commissioners," an official said. "Using chauffeurs
and cars for family trips is not permitted."

Nigel Farage, Ukip's European leader, said: "Mr Van Rompuy is delusional about
his importance, but ever so keen to take up the trappings of power. Why are we
forking out for chauffeurs for a Eurocrat's grandchildren so they can go on
holiday?"

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            October 11, 2010 Monday

David Cameron is right to reinstate No 10 press conferences - and he's good at
them

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 568 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: It's the well-mannered, understated tone which sees the prime
minister through the tricky bits of these events. He evidently listens to
himself talking and corrects silliness - laughs at himself even

FULL TEXT

I've just watched David Cameron's first Downing Street press conference,
relieved that he hadn't abandoned Tony Blair's useful innovation after five
months without one. I think he did well in a difficult situation. He has good
tone.

The 45-minute delay which puzzled us all was easily explained. No 10 had just
heard that  - by US friendly fire - not by her captors, as stated over the past
48 hours.

Well, the unpredictable nature of events, random and relentless, is what
consumes so much of a modern prime minister's time. To his credit Cameron got
himself properly briefed and spoke to the Norgrove family before facing my
colleagues' questions. He could, I suppose, have ducked it. He could have
distanced himself from the military or from William Hague, who signed off on the
rescue plan. He didn't.

The emerging controversy over the revelation consumed a lot of press conference
energy and is dominating the media fall-out. Not ideal, but that's life.

What else did Cameron reveal? Not a lot. You can find details on .

It's clearer than ever that the flaws in a graduate tax have sunk it, as they
did when Labour considered the option. The Browne review - about to be published
- concludes it would cost too much and drive people to foreign universities,
damaging ours. I fear he's right and fees will rise. Has Vince Cable had to
compromise? Everyone has to, says Mr Tactful.

Cameron ducked a sharp BBC question reminding him that he accused Labour of
lying when it said during the election that the Tories had secret plans to curb
winter fuel payments and free bus passes. Would he repeat his pledge to protect
them? He almost - not quite - did, but insisted there was no secret plan. So
Labour was lying. Hmm.

Fairness? It consists of three elements, protecting the poor, not asking others
to pay too much in tax and - this is the tricky bit - in asking what people
deserve. You can't ask hard-working people to pay to keep others in idleness,
Cameron suggested. He's right to include that element too.

I was impressed by his cunning when Bloomberg's reporter asked him to confirm
that the cut in child benefit for the £44,000-plus group is actually
£42,000-plus because George Osborne's emergency budget in June trimmed the
allowance. In his long, flowery answer the PM conceded the point - "you are
absolutely right about the threshold" - but only in a way most viewers might
have missed. Tradecraft, eh?

But, as I said earlier, it's the well-mannered, understated tone which sees him
through the tricky bits. He evidently listens to himself talking and corrects
silliness - laughs at himself even. He is courteous, remembers the names of
regional reporters as well as Nick Robinson. He even took as his final question
from one Polly Toynbee - perhaps his chief media tormentor.

Asked whether he was a bit of a clique-monger and a bit too leftwing, as alleged
by Lord Tebbit, Cameron condescended by suggesting the Thatcherite peer and Ukip
fellow-traveller is accusing him of being too leftwing and too rightwing. No, he
isn't. Norman will be cross.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 10, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Here's a way to save billions: let's quit the EU

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; 36

LENGTH: 829  words


FOR MILLIONS of Britons the welfare state is just a giant cashback system. We
pay our taxes and then the Government gives us our money back, minus the huge
costs of running the merry-go-round.

That is why it is right to phase out universal benefits that take no account of
family income, such as child benefit. But the Government is in trouble because
its current proposals are patently unfair. With two children, a single earner on
GBP 44,000 a year will lose GBP 1,700 while two earners on GBP 40,000 each will
still get the full whack. No wonder people are up in arms.

Labour's catastrophic economic legacy means painful cuts must be made but why
not be sensible and start with costly things that benefit almost nobody. The
Government claims its botched child benefit reforms will save GBP 1billion a
year. Peanuts compared to the GBP 6.7billion we paid the EU in membership fees
in 2008.

As UKIP MEP Nigel Farage observed:

"GBP 440 per family is one hell of a subscription to a club. Normally you'd
expect to see some benefits or at least be able to decide if the family budget
could afford it. Instead of quantifiable benefits what we get is regulations,
rules, instructions, mass inward migration and the inability to protect our own
citizens from dubious foreign courts."

With the worst economic crisis since the Thirties, can we expect those costs to
fall?

About as likely as Eric Pickles becoming a supermodel. Next year's costs will
rocket because Tony Blair's parting shot as Prime Minister was to give away half
of Britain's budget rebate, which Margaret Thatcher fought like a tigress to win
in 1984.

BLAIR'S supine weakness will cost us about GBP 4billion a year extra. A few days
ago the rogue trader Jerome Kerviel got five years in prison for losing the same
amount once. On that basis, Blair should be locked up for eternity.

The EU is a vast money crematorium with no sense of reality. A typical example
occurred two weeks ago. While 100,000 demonstrators protested in Brussels
against austerity measures proposed by EU governments, the European Parliament
voted to double its entertainment budget. It's like Marie Antoinette telling the
peasants who had no bread: "Let them eat cake."

The EU Commission spends GBP 1billion a year translating into 23 languages
official documents that hardly anyone reads. More seriously, it was recently
revealed that 1,000 eurocrats are paid more than David Cameron and, by 2040, EU
pensions will cost the UK alone GBP 350million a year. Meanwhile, EU Commission
head Jose Manuel Barroso used his "state of the union" address last month to
demand new taxing powers to fund even higher EU spending.

It beggars belief that when his own country of Portugal is virtually bankrupt,
unemployment is at crisis levels and social security is being slashed, he
produces plans to boost the EU budget by 7.6 per cent, to a staggering GBP
125billion a year.

There is no credible argument for pouring yet more money down Brussels' drains.

The EU's own auditors have refused for 13 years in succession to sign off its
accounts because of widespread fraud and poor record-keeping. A FTSE 100 company
with such an appalling record would have its collar felt by the SFO or Scotland
Yard.

But, in the EU, it is the whistleblowers such as former chief accountant Marta
Andreasen who get penalised. Fired from her job because she made the
embarrassing facts public, she has just had her appeal turned down, even though
she is now an MEP.

No rational person can fail to be disgusted by the colossal waste factored into
the EU's DNA from the outset. The Common Agricultural Policy is a byword for
extravagance and fraud.

Here's my favourite example. Smoking is almost a crime throughout the EU. Yet
the EU subsidises European tobacco growers to the tune of GBP 5,250 a year per
hectare, whereas the subsidy for wheat is GBP 250. European taxpayers are paying
a 98 per cent subsidy to produce a carcinogenic crop, almost all of which is
exported to Africa. How about that for Third World development aid.

IN 2008, the EU spent GBP 5.2billion of our money in the UK: GBP 2.4billion in
CAP payments and the rest on projects which, by definition, our own Government
did not think worthwhile. The CAP adds GBP 322 a year to the average household's
food budget. We would be better off if we kept the money and did not have the
farming subsidies or EU projects.

The Bruges Group estimates the total gross cost to the UK of EU membership at
GBP 65,000,000,000. That's about GBP 1,000 a year for every man, woman and
child.

Considering the unpopularity of the cuts to come, why don't the Tories jump at a
chance to save billions a year painlessly.

But Cameron says EU membership is non-negotiable. At Birmingham, William Hague
trumpeted "no new powers for the EU without a referendum". But he knows the
Lisbon Treaty allows increased EU powers without new treaties. His announcement
is a calculated deceit.

Leaving the EU is the only option.

Britain would be far better off out.

LOAD-DATE: October 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SEEN BUT NOT HEARD: A demonstration against budget cuts last month

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Climate change theories thrown in doubt by study

BYLINE: Jo Della-Ragione

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 567 words


The sun's impact on the climate on earth may work in the opposite way to what
has previously been believed, a study suggests.

Climate change sceptics last night seized on the results to suggest our
understanding of global warming may have to be reconsidered.

Until now it has been assumed that when solar activity - like sunspots and solar
flares - is in a reduced phase it leads to less warming of the earth.

But the new research, which focuses on a three-year period between 2004 and
2007, suggests the contrary may be true.

As solar activity waned at the end of one of the sun's 11-year cycles, the new
data shows the amount of energy reaching the earth at visible wavelengths rose
rather than fell.

Scientists believe it may also be possible that during the next up-turn of the
cycle, when sun activity increases, there might be a cooling effect at the
earth's surface.

Wisdom During the past century, overall solar activity has been increasing.

if the new findings apply to long as well as short time periods, this could
translate into a small degree of cooling rather than the slight warming effect
shown in existing climate models.

This would effectively turn received wisdom on its head.

Climate change sceptic Christopher Monckton said last night: "You have to look
at a much bigger timescale, not just three years. We know there's a close
correlation between changes in temperature of the earth's surface and solar
activity."

lord Monckton added: "The conclusion this report comes to is consistent with the
growing movement among solar physicists that the sun has a much greater effect
on climate change than the straight-forward measurable changes in its output
would lead us to suspect."

UKiP MeP Godfrey Bloom said: "This report further guides us to the logical
conclusion that solar activity was responsible for the Minoan, roman and
Medieval warm periods and the little ice Age, the fact that uninhabited planets
in the solar system are warming and cooling cyclically and why there has been no
global warming for 12 years, an unchallenged fact.

"Politicians and big business really must reappraise the rather unlikely
scenario that climate change is due to man-made Co2 emissions."

Professor Joanna haigh, of imperial College london, who led the study, said:
"These results are challenging what we thought we knew about the sun's effect on
our climate. however, they only show us a snapshot of the sun's activity and its
behaviour over the three years of our study could be an anomaly.

Pattern "We cannot jump to any conclusions based on what we have found during
this comparatively short period.

"however, if further studies find the same pattern over a longer period of time,
this could suggest that we may have overestimated the sun's role in warming the
planet."

Scientific author Andrew Montford, a prominent sceptic commented: "As Professor
haigh says, we have to be cautious with such a short record, but her team's
findings do seem to further discredit any suggestion that the science of climate
change is settled."

But Professor John Shepherd, research Fellow at the National oceanography
Centre, University of Southampton, said: "As with all other known solar effects
since measurements began, these effects are subtle and tiny - certainly nowhere
near enough to explain any of the climate changes that we observe."

'It's time to reappraise the idea that it is all due to man-made CO2 emissions'

LOAD-DATE: October 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Global temperature changes, which could threaten polar bears, may not
be affected by solar activity in the way previously thought

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            October 7, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Solar probe warms hopes of climate change sceptics

BYLINE: By Jo Della-Ragione

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 586  words


THE sun's impact on the climate on Earth may work in the opposite way to what
has previously been believed, a study suggests.

Climate change sceptics last night seized on the results to suggest our
understanding of global warming may have to be reconsidered.

Until now it has been assumed that when solar activity - like sunspots and
dramatic solar flares - is in a reduced phase it leads to less warming of the
Earth.

But the new research, which focuses on a three-year period between 2004 and
2007, suggests the contrary may be true.

As solar activity waned at the end of one of the sun's 11-year cycles, the new
data shows the amount of energy reaching the earth at visible wavelengths rose
rather than fell.

Scientists believe it may also be possible that during the next upturn of the
cycle, when sun activity increases, there might be a cooling effect at the
Earth's surface.

During the past century, overall solar activity has been increasing. If the new
findings apply to long as well as short time periods, this could translate into
a small degree of cooling rather than the slight warming effect shown in
existing climate models.

This would effectively turn received wisdom on its head.

Climate change sceptic Christopher Monckton said last night: "You really have to
look at a much bigger timescale, not just three years. But we know there's a
very close correlation between changes in temperature of the earth's surface and
solar activity."

Lord Monckton added: "The conclusion this report comes to is consistent with the
growing movement among solar physicists that the sun has a much greater effect
on climate change than the straight-forward measurable changes in its output
would lead us to suspect."

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said:

"This report further guides us to the logical conclusion that solar activity was
responsible for the Minoan, Roman and Medieval warm periods and the little Ice
Age, the fact that uninhabited planets in the solar system are warming and
cooling cyclically and why there has been no global warming for 12 years, an
unchallenged fact.

"Politicians and big business really must reappraise the rather unlikely
scenario that climate change is due to man-made CO2 emissions."

Professor Joanna Haigh, of Imperial College London, who led the study, said:
"These results are challenging what we thought we knew about the sun's effect on
our climate.

However, they only show us a snapshot of the sun's activity and its behaviour
over the three years of our study could be an anomaly.

"We cannot jump to any conclusions based on what we have found during this
comparatively short period.

"However, if further studies find the same pattern over a longer period of time,
this could suggest that we may have overestimated the sun's role in warming the
planet."

She cautioned: "It doesn't give comfort to the climate sceptics at all. It may
suggest that we don't know that much about the sun. It casts no aspersions at
all upon the climate models."

Scientific author Andrew Montford, a prominent sceptic commented: "As Professor
Haigh says, we have to be cautious with such a short record, but her team's
findings do seem to further discredit any suggestion that the science o f
climate change is settled."

But Professor John Shepherd, Research Fellow at the National Oceanography
Centre, University o f Southampton, said: "As with all other known solar effects
since measurements began, these effects are subtle and tiny - certainly nowhere
near enough to explain any of the climate changes that we observe."

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Global temperature changes, which could threaten polar bears like this
one off the Norwegian coast if Arctic ice is reduced, may not be affected by
solar activity in the way previously thought
Climate change sceptics Lord Monckton, left, and Godfrey Bloom both say a
re-think is needed on the risk of global warming

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           October 6, 2010 Wednesday

DIARY

LENGTH: 1208 words


RICHARD KAY

PRINCES ROW OVER TORY MILLIONAIRE

AS Prince Charles returns from cavorting at the Commonwealth Games in India,
Prince Andrew will be hoping his brother's 62nd birthday next month provides an
opportunity to smooth over a tricky fraternal squabble.

The row has been simmering for eight weeks, since Andrew brought controversial
Tory donor David Rowland to Balmoral and introduced him to his brother.

I revealed how Rowland had a picnic lunch with the Queen in the grounds of the
Scottish castle just days before the former tax exile dramatically withdrew as
the Conservative Party's treasurer-elect.

The multi-millionaire property tycoon is a close friend and confidant of the
Duke of York, for whom he has provided business advice.

And because of Rowland's proximity to the Tory leadership, Andrew thought he
could give the Queen some much-needed guidance against the backdrop of the
Government's squeeze on royal finances.

During the course of his day at the royals' Scottish retreat, it was arranged
for Rowland to have tea with the Prince of Wales at Birkhall, Charles and
Camilla's private residence in Scotland. But I understand that their meeting did
not go well.

'Charles was furious. He did not want to meet this man, didn't like him and
blames Andrew for it all,' says a royal source. 'Charles seems to think royal
finances are no one's affair but the Royal Family's.'

Prince Andrew has apparently been baffled

his brother's reaction. 'He thought Rowland's closeness to Cameron and Co would
be useful in the discussion they've got to have about money,' I am told.

'The meeting with the Queen was perfectly cordial and it was assumed Prince
Charles would find it informative to meet someone who is close to the thinking
of the top figures in the Coalition.'

The Queen has been forced to introduce austerity measures, cutting staff posts
and travel costs, while ministers are to have more of a say in how she spends
the 638.2million Parliament gives her each year.

For his part, scrap metal merchant's son Rowland, 65 , now Britain's 85th
richest man , is thought to view Charles's attitude towards the parlous state of
the royal finances as 'antediluvian'.

Thirteen years after finding happiness with a dashing building company boss
following the collapse of her 28-year marriage to BBC heavyweight David
Dimbleby, cookery writer Josceline Dimbleby has yet to move in with her lover.

'I suppose you could say I've found the perfect recipe for a long-lasting
relationship,' says Josceline, who was divorced from Question Time host David
ten years ago after he fell in love with her TV producer friend Belinda Giles.

While David went on to marry Belinda soon after the divorce, mother-of-three
Josceline has yet to tie the knot with divorcŽ Johnny Culme-Seymour, 62. 'Many
people assume John and I live together but we don't,' says Josceline, who was
temporarily reunited with her ex-husband at the launch of her cookery memoir,
Orchards In The Oasis. 'We actually have two separate houses just up the road
from each other. Living apart is like always having a lover.

'We see each other every day, he is only a walk away and I cook for him every
evening , or he cooks for me. But he keeps his own place, which is above his
office, and it's good to have your own space.'

STRICTLY ALL OVER FOR ALI AND BRIAN

They fell in love on our television screens in last year's Strictly Come
Dancing. But alas, I learn that the magic has faded for stunning actress Ali
Bastian (left) and professional dancer Brian Fortuna.

'The love affair is sadly all over,' I am told

a close friend of the pair. 'But Brian and Ali remain amicable and will continue
to be friends.'

Former Hollyoaks star Ali, 28, was last week overheard telling girlfriends at
The Red Room club in Mayfair that while she was sad to lose Brian, they both
realised the relationship had fizzled out.

Having never danced professionally, Ali , who finished as a semi-finalist on
Strictly , was so enthralled

Brian's profession that this summer she appeared with him in Burn The Floor, a
sizzling West End dance show, for two-and-a-half months.

Adds the pal: 'She is off soon to a luxury retreat on Jamaica with some friends
to mend her broken heart.'

ROYAL APPROVAL FOR MADONNA

SHE'S not received the warmest of royal welcomes for her film about U.S.
adventuress Wallis Simpson and the Abdication.

But, happily, one palace figure has lifted the froideur towards Madonna ,
Princess Michael of Kent (left), who of course has often styled herself as the
Royal Family's outsider.

'I found Madonna rather pleasant,' reveals Princess Michael, who is said to have
met with Madonna as part of the pop star-turned-film maker's research for the
movie, W.E. 'My husband had no interest in meeting her. He is not one for
showbusiness.'

The Kents met Mrs Simpson in her declining years, but Princess Michael says:
'Madonna wanted gossip on Wallis but there was little I could tell her.

'The Duchess was too frail for tittle-tattle

the time I got to meet her. I did tell her Wallis was one of those women who
stopped the traffic. She was a marvel , not unlike Madonna herself!'

DAPPER broadcaster Nicholas Parsons is tiring of the open-necked look our
political masters have adopted, and wonders if it's time the cravat returned.

'I've been a fan of cravats all my life. If they want to go tieless, I'd suggest
Messrs Cameron, Clegg and Miliband opt for a cravat, which is a very sartorial
item of clothing, but that less bit formal,' says Parsons, whose latest book, My
Life In Comedy, has just been published.

But the veteran host of Radio 4's Just A Minute adds: 'Sadly, I suspect no
politician has the courage to wear a cravat in this day and age.'

AS befits the face of one of London's discreet establishments, smoothie Johnny
Ekperigin has been called many things, but he's never been mistaken for a singer
of Irish rebel songs , until now. Hosting a launch party for writer Eleanor
Berry, eccentric daughter of former Telegraph proprietor Lord Hartwell, he was
challenged

her to sing Me Couple Of Sticks Of Gelig-i-nite And Me Old Alarm Clock, a catchy
number that's rarely heard outside West Belfast, and certainly not in Julie's,
Johnny's Holland Park restaurant, which is celebrating its 40th anniversary.
'Eleanor thought he had been hired as the singer,' says a friend. 'It's happened
before. On a visit to Venice, someone thought Johnny was Lionel Richie.'

PS

WITH four candidates fighting to be their next leader, Ukip is doing little to
live down David Cameron's description of them as 'a bunch of fruitcakes and
loonies'.

The party's most luminous patron, monocled TV astronomer Sir Patrick Moore, has
found himself in the unusual position of giving his support to not one but two
of the contest's prominent candidates.

Moore, 87, originally gave his backing to deputy leader David Campbell Bannerman
on the understanding that the party's former leader, Nigel Farage, would not be
standing after being hurt in a plane crash on the day of the General Election.

But now that Farage has declared himself fit to run, Moore felt it would be
dishonourable to withdraw his support for his old friend's rival, and so has
ended up backing them both.

At least Sir Patrick won't be disappointed when the result is announced next
month.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

AT A TIME OF CUTS, WHY CAN 'T CAMERON BE IS ATTRACTIVE SELF RATHER THAN PUT
STAFF ON THE PUBLIC PAYROLL TO SPIN IS IMAGE?

LENGTH: 1208 words


STEPHEN GLOVER

Ed Miliband missed something of an open goal yesterday in the House of Commons.
Armed with the amazing revelation that David Cameron has put his personal
photographer on the public payroll, Labour's new leader cracked a laborious joke
which the Tory leader easily swatted away.

'Is this what his opposition leadership has been reduced to?' asked a smiling
Prime Minister in rather haughty tones, treating Miliband junior as he might
have spoken to a callow new boy at Eton, or even a young 'oik' who had wandered
in from the local 'comp'.

Mr Miliband would have done better if he had said something about Mr Cameron's
vanity or the importance of leading by example. He might have hit home if he had
employed the word 'spin' or suggested that the Prime Minister was trying to take
control of his own image.

Unfortunately, he let him off the hook. It may, on the face of it, seem a small
matter for Mr Cameron to give his photographer, whose name is Andrew Parsons, a
civil service job at an estimated salary of 635,000 a year. Should we really get
worked up? So many hundreds of millions of pounds are squandered by government
that another small abuse may not seem a very big deal.

And yet, of course, Mr Cameron should be setting an example, and when thousands
of civil servants face the sack it seems insensitive to appoint someone to a
less-than-essential job at public expense. If he really does insist on having a
photographer , Mr Parsons will also take pictures of other members of the
Cabinet, and snapped Nick Clegg this week , let the Tory Party or the Lib Dems
or some generous individual pay for it, not the taxpayer.

Nor is Mr Parsons alone. The Prime Minister has appointed Nicky Woodhouse, who
ran the much-derided WebCameron site before the election, as the Government's
official film-maker, also on a civil servant's salary.

Her classic work showed Mr Cameron as Opposition leader doing the washing up
while coping with noisy off-screen children. Perhaps we will now be treated to
videos of Mr Clegg changing nappies or Vince Cable crocheting, the suggestion
being that these gentlemen are as weighed down by everyday tasks as the rest of
us.

Yet even if Mr Parsons' salary were privately funded, I would be troubled by the
thought of Mr Cameron employing his own snapper. It smacks too much of 'spin'.
It harks back uncomfortably to the days of Tony Blair and his spin doctor
Alastair Campbell, who so assiduously cultivated his master's image.

Didn't the Prime Minister suggest those days were over? He is actually a very
attractive man with a pleasant manner and good voice and plenty of natural
charm. I don't see why he should feel it necessary to manipulate his image. But
I can see that some people, including Tories, may be turned off by the idea that
he is doing so.

Mr Parsons has been burnishing the Cameron brand for some time. It was he who
pictured the Tory leader stroking huskies in the Norwegian snow not long after
Mr Cameron had become the party's leader, thereby advertising himself as a new
type of environmentally conscious Conservative.

Last year, Mr Parsons was on hand to photograph Mr Cameron on Armistice Day at
Westminster Abbey's Field of Remembrance. The Tory leader was pictured bending
over wooden crosses with a harrowed face. I'm afraid veterans were justified in
complaining that this 20-minute photoshoot was heavily staged and partly
calculated to extract maximum political gain.

Shades of Tony Blair at the funeral service of Diana, Princess of Wales, when in
a theatrical and overwrought voice he murdered that beautiful passage from
Corinthians ('For now we see through a glass darkly'), putting himself at the
centre of the commemoration of someone else's life.

A few days before the election, Mr Parsons took a picture of an exhausted
Samantha Cameron, with her head resting on the chest of her husband, whose face
bears a 'man of destiny' look as he gazes out of the window of their campaign
coach.

And the same Mr Parsons was also at work during last month's Tory conference,
when he was invited behind the scenes to take 'natural' photographs of a
supposedly unguarded Mr Cameron, who is shown in one picture bottle-feeding his
daughter Florence hours before his keynote speech, in another relaxing with a
pint of Guinness in his hotel room while his wife looks on.

The point of these pictures, all of which have been published in newspapers, is
to present the Prime Minister on his own terms as enlightened or compassionate
or heroic or attractively normal. They set out to manipulate a response in us.
Maybe they succeed. My own reaction, and I suspect that of many others, is that
I don't like being taken for a fool.

Mr Cameron, of course, spent much of his adult life in PR, and one of his main
advisers, Steve Hilton, is an advertising man obsessed with branding. The two of
them think in terms of producing arresting images that tell the story as they
want it to be told, and it is Mr Parsons' job to supply them. Truth is not the
primary consideration.

Most famously, perhaps, Mr Cameron was photographed riding his bike to the
Commons, an image intended to suggest that he was 'hip', environmentally aware,
and thoroughly modern. Only later did the truth emerge , that he was followed by
his car carrying his clothes, shoes and the leader of the Opposition's blue box.

Incidentally, after 1940, Winston Churchill had the services of an official
photographer called Captain Horton of the War Office, who photographed the Prime
Minister doing such things as trying out a Sten gun, stroking a cat on a British
destroyer, and standing with British generals. The intention was to present
Churchill as an inspirational war leader, but that, of course, was exactly what
he was. These pictures showed him doing his job, and they did not contrive
deceitfully to manipulate people's responses.

David Cameron has been much criticised for breaking promises made before the
election , not to change child benefit, not to raise Vat, to have a referendum
on any new EU treaty, and to repeal the Human Rights Act. These and several
other pledges have been revoked, supposedly because of pressure from the Lib
Dems.

So it seems to me that honesty is likely to be a major theme of Mr Cameron's
prime ministership, and indeed has already become so. It is therefore doubly
important that he is not seen to be cultivating a false image, and doing it
moreover with the help of two people, Andrew Parsons and Nicky Woodhouse, whom
he shamelessly slaps on the public payroll.

Downing Street's strikingly lame defence is say that 'a lot of government
departments have photographers', and because Mr Parsons and Ms Woodhouse will be
'cross-departmental' the Coalition might 'even make savings'. And Nick Clegg
might become a member of UKIP! More to the point, in this age of austerity, why
not get rid of all government photographers?

Here's a radical idea. Let Mr Cameron be his attractive self. Stop the films
about washing up, and the man of destiny shots, and the photographs pretending
he is just a normal bloke, and let him get on with the job of government. David
Cameron as he really is might be more popular, and certainly more trusted, than
the David Cameron who employs two people to manipulate his image.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 72 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday

DIARY

LENGTH: 1113 words


RICHARD KAY

IS NIGELLA A DOMESTIC HYPOCRITE?

When art guru Charles Saatchi was questioned by police for losing his temper
over his neighbours' building works, only the most hard-hearted could fail to
feel sympathy for the multi-millionaire and his voluptuous wife, Nigella Lawson.

There was even quiet admiration for Saatchi's chutzpah in employing his own
workmen to take down the ugly scaffolding surrounding his 636million apartment
in Belgravia, even if he did cause damage in the process.

But now I learn a similar situation has emerged just a mile away involving the
house the couple intend to move to , and, this time, Saatchi is the villain, not
the victim.

To the despair of his future neighbours, he and Nigella, 50, have been employing
teams of builders to renovate their double-fronted house just off the King's
Road in West London. 'It's been absolutely horrendous,' says a long-suffering
resident. 'We've complained to him and the builders, and were assured it would
all be finally over this month. Now we're told it won't be finished at least
until Christmas. Everyone is thoroughly fed up.

'We've lost count of the number of times the road has been closed because of
enormous cranes. They even brought a crane to lift in 30ft-long planks of wood
through the windows.

'When we asked what they were for, the builders said they were floorboards that
had to be extra-long because Mr Saatchi doesn't like to see joins in his floor.'

Locals, who include novelist Joanna Trollope, say the builders moved in three
years ago, when developers bought the property, which was formerly the Adel
Rootstein mannequin showroom.

Everything except the front facade was demolished and then rebuilt, creating an
elegant mansion with seven bedrooms, a gym and a swimming pool in the basement.

Saatchi, 67, bought the property for 612.3million in February, and builders
reappeared as he spent yet more millions on the place.

Says songwriter Ted Reynell, who lives on the street: 'Considering what a fuss
Saatchi made when he was suffering building works, I find the whole thing hugely
ironic. Talk about pot calling the kettle black.

'The fact is, the work on their new home in Chelsea has reduced what was once a
pleasant, quiet street into a chaotic building site.

'We all look forward to some compensatory home cooking from Nigella at the house
warming.'

LUCKY ESCAPE FRO GREEN'S YACHT

It wasn't quite as bad as our nuclear sub running aground, though it could have
given Sir Philip Green cause for nautical concern.

An unexpected gale in Monaco harbour over the weekend almost resulted in
Cunard's new 6400million liner, the Queen Elizabeth, hitting Green's gin palace,
Lionheart.

According to those on board, winds tore the 16-deck, 964.5ft-long ship away from
two of her mooring lines. Skipper Christopher Wells announced he was having to
use the engines to hold the ship in position and that no one could go ashore.

Says one passenger: 'Philip Green's yacht was moored just yards away. If the
liner had broken free, Lionheart and other yachts could have been written off.'

Captain Wells reported an hour later that new lines had been fixed and the Queen
Elizabeth was 'fairly secure'. She left for her next destination six hours late
because of the trouble.

The cruise ship dwarfs retail magnate Green's yacht, but Sir Philip is playing
down the incident. 'Nothing happened,' he tells me from Monte Carlo. 'Yes, it's
been raining for 25 hours here, but Lionheart was on the other side of the port
50 yards away.'

So that's all right then.

Writer and cabaret singer Nesta Wyn Ellis has fallen out with the subject of her
latest biography , the Marquess of Bath.

Neither eccentric Bath nor any of his 75 wifelets came to Nesta's book launch
last week at The Kennington Bookshop, South London.

Explains Nesta, who also wrote a 1991 biography of former prime minister John
Major: 'I specifically didn't invite his girlfriends in case there was a
punch-up between them.'

What of the Loins Of Longleat himself? 'I gave Alexander a copy of the book and
he said he didn't like any of it,' says Nesta.

'I told him: "These are accurate transcripts of your own words."

'That was two years ago , I haven't spoken to him since.'

NO LONGER A FREE AGENT

At long last, showbiz impresario Jonathan Shalit has completed his tortoise-like
crawl to the altar , or, in his case, the chuppa.

Top-hatted Shalit, 48 , who acts as agent for Myleene Klass and Lorraine Kelly ,
yesterday married clothes designer Katrina Sedley under a traditional wedding
canopy at a West London synagogue in front of 70 guests.

His new stepdaughters , Jessica, 21, and Sofia, 23 , were maids-of-honour.

The couple became engaged seven months ago, after Shalit proposed on bended knee
to twice-married Katrina, 49, on Mother's Day at the Ivy.

Only family and close pals were present at their nuptials, but Shalit is
organising a big showbiz bash next week at the Victoria & Albert Museum.

Oy vey!

It looked like the on-off relationship between Prince Harry and Chelsy Davy was
over for good when the blonde beauty announced in June she was moving back to
South Africa. Yet it seems she has not severed all ties with her former beau.

Last week, Harry's best friend, Tom Inskip, and his girlfriend, Lara
Hughes-Young, flew out to stay with Chelsy in Cape Town. Although Harry wasn't
invited, friends believe Tom will try to persuade Chelsy to give him another
chance.

'Harry would do anything to have her back,' says a friend. 'He has put on an act
that he is enjoying being single, but secretly he is miserable.' Fingers crossed
for the lovelorn Prince that his royal emissary meets with success.

If she gets fed up with eBay, Cherie Blair could try Sunbury Antiques Market at
Kempton Park. Last week, 11 limos arrived, and the group that emerged bought so
much that the market provided them with a large van to take it all away. The
market's owner, Edward Cruttenden, tells me: 'We've had Stella McCartney and
Keira Knightley here. This time, it was the king of Thailand's son.' So Cherie
would fit in nicely.

PS

AS IF licking 2,000 stamps on invitations for the charity Canine Partners wasn't
enough to send Lord Pearson of Rannoch's wife, Caroline, barking mad, she has
been further infuriated to discover that most of her missives have failed to
reach their destination.

According to the Ukip leader's wife , who is an ambassador for the good cause ,
more than 1,000 invitations for the 675-a-head Dogs, Rocks & Frocks fashion show
in London this month have been lost in the post.

'I do feel incredibly disheartened,' says Caroline. 'My husband blames the
European Union for passing laws that make the postal service less efficient.'

Well, he would, wouldn't he ...

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Tory fringe despair at antics of Coalition Cameroons;
BIRMINGHAM DIARY

BYLINE: ANDY McSMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 536 words


Representatives at the Conservative conference are not all seething with rancour
over the compromises they have had to make through being in coalition with the
Liberal Democrats, but a lively minority are. Nearly 150 gathered in a side hall
yesterday to hear the Tory MEP Roger Helmer and the Daily Mail's Melanie
Phillips denounce David Cameron for not setting Britain on a course that would
get us out of the EU.

Helmer accused the Home Secretary, Theresa May, of being complicit in an
"outrageous infringement of our personal liberty" by signing an order that gives
other EU jurisdictions access to the DNA and personal records of British
suspects. The Tory promise not to devolve any more powers to Brussels without a
referendum is "an outrageous piece of spin," he added. And Eastern Europe is
finding "they are ruled by Brussels in much the same way as they were ruled by
Moscow". To rousing applause, Helmer concluded: "I start to despair for my party
and my country."

One quite young woman in the audience was not sure that the EU was the most
urgent issue. "We need to deal with this war that the Cameroons are waging
against the rest of their party," she suggested.

Mel Phillips was yet more eloquent. "Look at those Cameroons - they are so
desperate for power they will do anything to stay in it," she declared.

"What is the point of the Conservative Party if it no longer understands what is
there to conserve and against whom?"

She also drew a parallel between those who supported Stalin in the 1950s and
those who believe in man-made climate change.

QUOTE OF THE DAY

"Oliver Letwin has reaffirmed the Coalition's pledge to become the greenest
government ever."

- press release issued by Mr Letwin's spin doctor after he got himself on to the
conference platform alongside the Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman. Read
that to mean: "I want this woman's job."

Sorry, wrong conference

The Conservative conference logo, with its Union Jack motif, is causing comment
because of its startling resemblance to a map of Northern Ireland. A minister
was heard to say: "I thought I had wandered into the wrong conference by
mistake. I thought it was the Ulster Unionists."

WHAT'S SHE DOING HERE?

On the street outside the conference is parked the mobile surgery of Nikki
Sinclaire, MEP for the West Midlands. She was elected to the European Parliament
for the UK Independence Party last year, ran for the party leadership, lost,
fell out with her colleagues, got expelled, and now styles herself an
independent. She was collecting signatures for a petition to get out of the EU,
and getting a reasonable response.

Grieve falls for the elephant trap

Dominic Grieve, the Attorney General, has a good record for defending civil
liberties, but whether he can be called a smart party politician is open to
question. Speaking at a fringe meeting yesterday, he said: "People have
entitlement to privacy. They have an entitlement that confidential
conversations..." At this point, Shami Chakrabarti, of Liberty, laid an elephant
trap for him by asking: "On their mobile phones?" Dominic Grieve fell right in.
"Mobile phone can't be hacked into or broadcast," he said. But they could when
Andy Coulson was editing the News of the World.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            October 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

The news in 140 characters;
We follow them, so you don't have to

BYLINE: Chosen by TheIndyNews

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 460 words


willcarling

What a great sporting occasion. Talk about tense. Great golf from many, bloody
awesome win by Europeans. Well played u beauties! #rydercup (Will Carling,
former England rugby union captain)

IanJamesPoulter

on our way onto stage this is the best feeling in the world, I love the Ryder
cup, for u Seve & Monty (Ian Poulter, golfer)

tom_watson

I don't think George Osborne understands just how enraged middle class parents
will be about the cuts to child benefit. He'll regret it. (Tom Watson, Labour
MP)

guyadams

It's got telephones in the toilet and TVs by the bath, but my Vegas suite still
reeks of the broken dreams of a thousand lonely businessmen (Guy Adams,
Independent journalist)

markthomasinfo

When Osborne says he is a One Nation Tory he means the Nation should be owned by
One Tory. Him. (Mark Thomas, comedian and political activist)

BorowitzReport

The world would be a better place if Christine O'Donnell were serious about
witchcraft & only dabbled in politics (Andy Borowitz, comedian and satirist)

Simon_price01

Whoever invented tacos needs a slap. Ridiculously inefficient method of
mince-ingestion. (Simon Price, music journalist)

ThatKevinSmith

Happy Birthday, IMDB! Like Batman's Alfred, you've been like a surrogate Father
to me. (Kevin Smith, director)

TimMontgomerie

Reading Michael Portillo in the FT is like reading a left-winger now, he is
consumed by dislike for the Tory mainstream (Tim Montgomerie, Conservative
blogger)

davidschneider

#rydercup Hurrah! Europe win! - UKIP! You took one helluva beating! (David
Schneider, actor and comedian)

DaveGorman

Lots of ppl explaining diff btw matchplay/strokeplay etc. I've no idea. No
desire to play either. Just that this Ryder Cup lark is exciting (Dave Gorman,
comedian)

richardpbacon

Christ, golf is so much better when it's got a rowdy, drunken, semi aggressive
edge. All golf clubs should employ loutish, intoxicated mobs. (Richard Bacon,
broadcaster)

Swannyg66

Brilliant win in the Ryder cup. Massive squeeky bum last half hour though!
(Graham Swann, cricketer)

Aiannucci

George Osborne announces plans for mothers to give birth 'on a sliding scale'.
(Armando Iannucci, writer and comedian)

rustyrockets

I am on Heart 106.2 this morning. Which is a radio station, not my pulse rate.
(Russell Brand, comedian)

BenFolds

Never thought I'd witness a man using a leaf blower to sweep floor of office
lobby - inside, gas fumes and dust everwhere! (Ben Folds, musician)

hugorifkind

At least, seeing that they earn a mere £40k a year, tube drivers won't be losing
their child benefit. (Hugo Rifkind, journalist)

DalaiLama

As we all share an identical need for love, it is possible to feel that anyone
we meet, in whatever circumstances, is a brother or sister. (Dalai Lama,
spiritual leader and Tibetan head of state)

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       October 4, 2010 Monday 4:12 PM GMT

Conservative Party Conference: the Cameron revolution will continue

BYLINE: By Robert Colvile

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 327 words


Further to David Hughes's excellent evisceration of Michael Portillo, I have to
admit that Portillo has a point: the Tories are still widely disliked.

At a fringe meeting here in Birmingham, Andrew Cooper of Populus has outlined
some of the issues. Before the election, 41 per cent of the public agreed that
it was time for a change from Labour - but weren't sure whether it was time for
a change to the Tories. For 31 per cent of people, the Tories are seen as the
party of the rich, not the party with ordinary people's interest at heart. And a
whopping 58 per cent of non-Tories say the party hasn't changed for the better.

This chimes precisely with Philip Cowley and Dennis Kavanagh's analysis, in
their study of the General Election. As Cowley outlined in the Telegraph, far
more people didn't vote Tory out of fear that they were too Right-wing than
defected to Ukip etc in disgust at Cameron's woolly centrism.

Where the Portillo thesis falls down is that no one recognises this problem more
than Cameron and his team - hence Andrew Lansley's insistence at the same fringe
meeting that the modernisation process will continue, hence all the touchy-feely
talk about compassionate cuts, hence the petrified expression that
ministersadopt when someone asks them (as Fraser Nelson of the Spectator did
ofGreg Clark at another fringe meeting last night) to put a figure on the ideal
level of state spending as a percentage of GDP, or make any other comment that
could see them labelled as heartless slashers.

This process is immensely frustrating to many of us who'd like the Tory platform
and rhetoric to contain a little more red meat, who'd like them to be overt
about their small-state instincts rather than having to repress them. But the
truth is that elections are won and lost on the centre ground. Portillo has
identified the problem, in an admirably unhelpful way. But it's Cameron who's
been the most effective at, and most dedicated to, finding a solution.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             October 4, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stop worrying and learn to love the coalition;
A Tory government with a tiny majority could not achieve what we are able to do
now

BYLINE: Kenneth Baker

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 898 words


What will make this a successful conference for the Conservative Party? First,
no triumphalism, but a recognition that we are in power because of David
Cameron. Second, a gritting of the teeth over the cuts to come and a
determination to stick to them in the months and years ahead. Third, an
avoidance of a civil war between groups of MPs favouring one department or their
own particular interest over another. But, above all, a ringing endorsement that
the coalition is a good thing for the country and a good thing for the Tory
party.

Over the past two centuries single-party government has by no means been the
norm. In the 18th century most governments were formed from shifting alliances.
In the 19th century, after Robert Peel broke the Tory party over tariff reform,
there were several minority governments with Liberal or Tory prime ministers. In
the following elections no single party had a majority: 1885, 1892, 1910
(twice), 1918, 1923, 1929, 1950, 1952 and 1974. Governments survived by
coalition or informal agreements.

As recently as 1976 the Labour Government was kept in power for three years with
Liberal support, although there was no formal coalition. The longest period of
single-party government in our history was 1945-2010: has this pattern come to
an end or is it just suspended? In this year's election many different parties
contested seats and 12 per cent of the electorate voted "other". This was not
the pattern when I was first elected to Parliament in 1968. Then the
Conservative and Labour parties dominated the political landscape with large
memberships and mass meetings of supporters. Electoral traction has now moved to
smaller parties, and the ones that did well were to the right - UKIP - and left
- the Greens. Today's voters are consumers: they like to shop around, a habit
that, once acquired, will not be lightly given up.

It begins to look as if the chances of one party having a significant overall
majority will only come about if an incumbent government is greatly unpopular,
as it was in 1979 to the benefit of Margaret Thatcher, and in 1997 to the
benefit of Tony Blair.

In the five days after the 2010 election, it was Mr Cameron's flair, drive,
judgment and ruthless determination that focused on acquiring power. He won
because he saw that the electorate had created a new politics. Some Tories claim
that if the campaign had been better we would have won an overall majority. They
overlook that the decline in Conservative support started well before the
election, and there is little point in fighting yesterday's battles - we are
where we are.

Sceptical or disappointed Tory MPs should realise that a minority Conservative
government or even one with a small majority could never have secured George
Osborne's Budget, Michael Gove's education reforms or Iain Duncan Smith's
welfare reforms.

None of these can possibly be described as "appeasing the Lib Dems". Tory MPs
should also realise that they cannot leave the table and cash in their winnings
as the benefits of these reforms will not be seen for three or four years.

The greatest prize for the Tories is yet to come: constitutional change that
will eliminate Labour's 8 per cent advantage at every general election. This
will be achieved by equalising the votes in each constituency to around 76,000
and by reducing the size of the House of Commons by 50 MPs. Three years ago I
took a Bill through the House of Lords to achieve these goals - it needed only
three pages of legislation, but we will require four years to secure new
boundaries for every constituency.

This constitutional reform will remove the great unfairness of voters in some
seats having a greater say than in others - Welsh seats, for example, have
14,300 voters fewer than English ones, which is even more anomalous now that
Wales has its own Assembly.

The price of all of this is a referendum on the Alternative Vote and that is a
price worth paying. The British public have just seen what AV has done for the
Labour Party - the best man lost - and it seems unlikely that they will want to
see that repeated on a national scale. The greater prize is to put the
chequerboard of politics on to a level table, one that is not tilted in favour
of Labour. That is why Jack Straw is going to fight this Bill to the last ditch:
he knows that it will make the prospect of a future Labour overall majority very
hard to achieve.

Formal coalitions are so unusual in British politics that there is an
understandable itch to find differences, tensions and discomforts between the
partners and even within each party, but the temptation to scratch the itch
should be resisted, for it is a futile and potentially destructive exercise to
review the achievements of this coalition in parcels of 100 days.

MPs of all parties are coming to accept that there will not be an election in
2011 or 2012, when the British public will not want to be diverted from enjoying
the Olympic Games and celebrating the Queen's Diamond Jubilee. In 2013 the
rewards of austerity are still likely to be meagre, so an election in 2015 looks
odds-on. This coalition has staying power.

Lord Baker of Dorking was a member of the Cabinet from 1985-92 and chairman of
the Conservative Party 1989-90 OpEd Live from 1pm Watch Tim Montgomerie reveal
how grassroots Tories rate the coalition thetimes.co.uk/opinion

Today's voters are consumers: they like to shop around

LOAD-DATE: October 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Osborne's Budget cannot be described as "appeasing the Lib Dems"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 72 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                October 3, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Anger fizzes up as MEPs double their budget for champagne parties

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 353 words


ON the day that workers from across Europe protested against austerity measures
in front of the European parliament building in Brussels, MEPs voted to double
the budget used for their champagne receptions.

The parliament's budget committee raised the entertainment fund from ¤1.1m to
¤2.1m (£1.8m) a year on Wednesday, despite the fact that many restaurants
serving Eurocrats exclusively are already heavily subsidised by the taxpayer.

MEPs have become notorious for adding perks and lavish allowances for themselves
and their staff, including limousines, first-class travel and two pensions. The
latest increase will fund events in venues such as the plush Concert Noble hall
in central Brussels, where the parliament holds gala receptions.

"These people are thinking about champagne and oysters while 100,000 workers
have come to Brussels to complain against the austerity measures they are going
through in different countries of the European Union," said Marta Andreasen, a
UK Independence party MEP.

Vince Cable, the business secretary, warned of a "big backlash" if the EU's
budget is not cut.

"At a time when national governments, including mine, are having to make very
painful cuts in public spending, no one can understand why the European budget
is not being subject to the same discipline," he said.

Tory and Lib Dem MEPs opposed the rise, while Labour deputies and other members
of the socialist bloc reportedly abstained in the vote.

The entertainment budget helped to pay for an event called I Love EU, held in
July in front of the parliament building. It featured pop bands and dance
instructors teaching crowds a boogie routine in homage to the Manneken Pis, the
urinating statue that is the symbol of Brussels.

The parliament will also co-sponsor the gala opening in December of the new EU
"embassy" in the former Tory HQ on Smith Square in London.

The eight-storey building near Whitehall, where Margaret Thatcher was famously
pictured celebrating election victories in the 1980s, was renamed Europe House
after the EU bought it for £20m in 2008. Following a £5.5m refurbishment, staff
will move in this week.

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
