
                               1 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                  May 30, 2010
                                  Eire Edition

IS there nothing UKIP wackos [...]

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 39 words


IS there nothing UKIP wackos won't blame the EU for? Party Chairman Paul Nuttall
says new Brussels poison restrictions will cause Britain's rat population to
soar. The clue to such nonsense is in the first syllable of Paul's surname.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 30, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Fair for Lib Dems, fair for the BNP;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 175 words


MOST comment on a fair voting system seems to concentrate on what might be
"fair" to the Liberal Democrats. But what about the smaller parties? A truly
fair voting system in the last election, based on votes cast, would have given
UKIP 20 seats, the BNP 12 seats and the Greens seven seats. "Fairness" would
result in an even more fragmented House of Commons than at present. Would this
make for good governance? Before tinkering with the system, it would be wise to
think through the wider implications. Ian Snowden Clitheroe, Lancashire Polls
apart Any debate on electoral reform has to tackle the question of Welsh and
Scottish members of parliament. They should not be voting on matters that affect
England only.

Dr James Stevenson Wyton, Cambridgeshire Term time While on the subject of
constitutional reform, why not go one better and also legislate to limit a prime
minister's (not necessarily a government's) tenure to two successive
parliamentary terms only - surely an ample helping for the best, even at the
best of times? Walter Gray London N3

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories take final seat as Labour finish third

BYLINE: Nick Collins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 167 words


THE Conservatives have won the final seat in Parliament after a delayed general
election poll in Thirsk and Malton.

Voters in the constituency, where the ballot was postponed after the death of
one of the candidates, elected Tory Anne McIntosh, putting Lib Dem Howard Keal
second.

Labour were pushed into third with a decrease of 6,416 on the notional results
for the newly formed constituency - a development described by opponents as
"catastrophic" for the party.

Ms McIntosh polled 20,167 votes, Mr Keal earned 8,886, while Labour's Jonathan
Roberts trailed on 5,169.

The result reflects that of neighbouring constituency Richmond, which also saw
the Lib Dems take second place from Labour on May 6. Toby Horton, who was
brought in to stand for Ukip after the death of its candidate, John Boakes, in
April, came fourth out of five candidates with 2,502 votes.

John Clark, Liberal, received 1,418 votes. The turnout was 50 per cent.

The win takes the Conservative's total number of seats in the Commons to 307.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Spain's credit rating slashed after budget

BYLINE: Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 334 words


SPAIN was dealt another blow last night when its credit rating was lowered yet
again by one of the big international agencies.

Fitch Ratings took away Spain's triple-A status - the top rating which is the
credit score Britain currently enjoys.

It was the second of the three main ratings agencies to take away Spain's
top-notch status, following a similar move by Standard & Poor last month.

Fitch gave Spain an AA+ rating over fears the government would be unable to make
the cuts it announced on Thursday to avoid a Greek-style debt crisis.

Brian Coulton, analyst at Fitch, said: "The downgrade reflects Fitch's
assessment that the process of adjustment to a lower level of private sector and
external indebtedness will materially reduce the rate of growth of the Spanish
economy over the medium term."

Spain managed to agree a 15billion euro (£13billion) austerity package on
Thursday by a single vote in a bid to control its economy.

The Fitch downgrading of its credit status is likely to hit Britain's markets
when they reopen after the holiday weekend.

The euro hit an 11-month low against sterling on Wednesday amid fears over
massive deficits. Spain follows Portugal and Greece, which have also both had
their AAA ratings taken away. But Fitch remained optimistic for Spain's outlook.

Its report said: "The stable outlook on Spain's sovereign rating reflects
Fitch's view that the country's credit profile will remain very strong and
consistent with its AA+ rating, even in the event of some slippage relative to
official fiscal targets."

TORY WINS POSTPONED POLL

THE Tories were yesterday celebrating victory in a delayed General Election
contest. Anne McIntosh won the new seat of Thirsk and Malton in a poll postponed
from May 6 following the death of a candidate. She had 20,167 votes.

Labour slumped to third place with 5,169 votes, behind the Lib Dems with 8,886
votes. Both Tories and Lib Dems viewed the result as backing for their
coalition. UK Independence Party candidate John Boakes died last month.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

The Guide: Events: Eurocultured Manchester

BYLINE: Iain Aitch

SECTION: THE GUIDE; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 111 words


Eurosceptics and card-carrying UKIP members may wish to avoid this celebratory
bank holiday event, which is part of an ongoing series of pan-European festivals
that were initiated in 2004 to welcome new nations to the European Union. Live
bands and DJs largely dominate at this Manchester event, with Real Dolls, Walls
and Dungen all appearing on stage. The live action extends to the visual arts,
with street and graffiti artists like Herakut from Germany (work pictured) and
Spain's Aryz being showcased. There are also workshops for budding B-boys and
flamenco dancers, games and treasure hunts, plus Kino's Secret Cinema.

Various venues, Sun & Mon, eurocultured.com

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

National: Victory for Tory as Thirsk and Malton finally goes to polls

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 393 words


The Conservatives and Liberal Democrats yesterday took first and second place in
the final poll of the general election, the delayed ballot in Thirsk and Malton.
Anne McIntosh becomes David Cameron's 307th MP and a likely bet in due course to
ameliorate the much-criticised lack of women in the coalition's senior ranks.

The result is a relief for the new government, especially the Lib Dems, who had
feared that any backlash over their partnership with the old Tory enemy would
show in the seat, where the parties are longstanding and fierce foes. Instead,
voters gave Nick Clegg's party the biggest boost of the night, with a five-point
rise in their vote.

The huge slice of North Yorkshire, England's biggest parliamentary seat and with
16,000 more electors than the 60,000 average, had to wait for three weeks to
vote. The delay followed the death in late April of Ukip's original candidate,
John Boakes, after nominations had closed.

Electoral law postpones any poll in such circumstances - a rare event, although
South Staffordshire suffered a similar delay in the 2005 general election.
Irritation at this was a feature of the Thirsk and Malton campaign, which saw
calls for the law to be changed as part of the coalition's political reform
programme.

McIntosh, who had been MP for Vale of York, won 52.9% of the vote in the new
constituency, with a majority of 10,281 over the Lib Dems. The turnout was a
shade over 50%.

Howard Keal, the Lib Dem candidate and leader of the party on Ryedale council,
said the percentage rise in his vote - a 2.6% swing from Labour and even a
fractional one from the Tories - was a vindication of the coalition's start. He
said: "Voters liked the look of the policies the two parties have agreed and the
Liberal Democrats' prominent role."

Labour's Jonathan Roberts acknowledged that the slump in the party's vote had to
be faced with humility.

In spite of a visit by the acting leader of the opposition, Harriet Harman, his
hopes that public sector workers - a substantial part of the electorate - would
rally to the party were dashed. He said: "We have work to do. We are looking to
the next council elections and building up Thirsk and Malton Labour party. We
fought a positive and constructive campaign but haven't had the benefits this
time."

Captions:

Anne McIntosh, the new Conservative MP for Thirsk and Malton, at the count

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

National: Special report: English Defence League: The new wave of extremists
plotting summer of unrest: Forged on football terraces and targeting Muslim
communities, rightwingers return to the streets in an increasingly violent form

BYLINE: Matthew Taylor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 2301 words


In the back room of a sparsely decorated pub in Bolton a man with a shaved head
and a tattoo poking out above his shirt collar hands out what look like wraps of
cocaine to his friends. It is just after 11am but behind him the pub is already
packed with young, mainly white, men. Suddenly it erupts.

"We want our country back. We want our country back . . . Muslim bombers off our
streets." The chants ring out as tables are thumped and plastic pint glasses are
thrust into the air.

"It is going to be a good 'un today," says the shaven-headed man, leaning across
the table towards me to make himself heard. "We're going to get to twat some
Pakis - I can feel it."

The pub, a few hundred yards from Bolton railway station, is the latest
gathering point for the most significant rightwing street movement the UK has
seen since the heyday of the National Front in the 1970s.

For the past four months the Guardian has joined English Defence League
demonstrations, witnessing its popularity, from protests attracting just a few
hundred hardcore activists at the end of last year to rallies and marches which
are bringing thousands of people on to the street - and into direct conflict
with the police and Muslim communities.

The EDL plans to step up its campaign in coming weeks, culminating in marches
through some of the UK's most high-profile Muslim communities, raising the
spectre of widespread unrest.

With the British National party beset by infighting and recriminations after its
poor showing in last month's local and national elections, the UK is facing the
prospect of rightwing activists turning away from the ballot box and back to the
street for the first time in three decades.

The English Defence League sprang up in Luton last year in reaction to a
demonstration by a small extreme Islamist group during a homecoming parade by
the Royal Anglian Regiment.

Since then this chaotic organisation - based largely around football groups and
hooligan networks - has mobilised thousands of people against what it terms
"Islamic extremism".

In telephone conversations and face-to-face meetings, members of the EDL's
secretive leadership team repeatedly told the Guardian the group is not racist
and just wants to "peacefully protest against militant Islam".

But at each demonstration I attended while making an undercover film for the
Guardian's investigative film unit, Guardian Films, I was confronted by casual -
often brutal - racism, a widespread hatred of Muslims and often the threat of
violence.

It was only possible to film some of the most alarming scenes with a hidden
camera. Inside a pub in Stoke in January about 3,000 EDL supporters gathered for
the first demonstration of the year. They had spent the past four hours
drinking. The balcony around the top of the cavernous pub was draped in flags
bearing the names of different football clubs - Wolves, Newcastle, Aston Villa -
and the chants "We all hate Muslims" and "Muslim bombers off our streets" filled
the air. The atmosphere was tense, and not just because of the growing
anti-Islamic rhetoric. The pub was packed with rival football gangs from across
the Midlands and the north of England. Twice, fighting broke out as old
rivalries failed to be subdued by the new enemy - Islam. "They're just kids,"
said one man. "That is not what we are here for today."

As we moved outside for the EDL protest - during which supporters became
involved in violent clashes with the police - a woman asked me for a donation to
support the "heroes coming back injured from Afghanistan". I put a pound in the
bucket. "Thanks love," she said. "They go over there and fight for this country
and then come back to be faced with these Pakis everywhere." She paused, before
adding: "But to be honest it is the niggers I can't stand."

This kind of casual racism is not hard to find on EDL demonstrations. The
Guardian has also identified a number of known rightwing extremists who are
taking an interest the movement - from convicted football hooligans to members
of violent rightwing splinter groups. The EDL says it is doing what it can to
keep them away but acknowledged their influence.

"At previous events, we have had far-right groups like Combat 18 turning up,"
the EDL's self-proclaimed leader, who uses the pseudonym Tommy Robinson, said in
a local newspaper interview. "It's naive to guarantee no violence."

Nick Lowles, of the anti-fascist group Searchlight, says these groups have a
growing - and dangerous - influence.

"What we are seeing is more organised fringe elements - the National Front, old
networks of Combat 18 people and members of the BNP - who are getting involved
specifically to try and use the EDL to spark serious disorder," says Lowles.
"This is a serious development; we just need one of these demonstrations to go
wrong - for there to be a serious incident - and it won't just lead to disorder
in Dudley, Bolton or wherever, it will spread to towns and cities across the
country."

But the EDL is not a simple rerun of previous far-right street groups. On each
demonstration there is a smattering of non-white faces and one of the group's
leaders is Guramit Singh, a British-born Sikh. The organisation's core support
appears to be young white men who are often fuelled by drink and sometimes
drugs. But its Islamophobic message seems to have acted as a lightning rod for a
strange coalition - from rightwing Christians who see it as being on the
frontline in the "global fight against Islam" to gay rights activists.

Decrying Islam

At the front of the EDL demonstration in Bolton in March, among the banners
decrying Islam, was a man holding up a pink triangle. He looked nervous when I
asked him what he was doing there. "This is the symbol gay people were made to
wear under Hitler," he said. It turns out he is a member of the EDL's lesbian,
gay, bisexual and transgender division, which has 115 members.

Many of the people I met said they had never been involved in rightwing politics
before. "I finished my night shift at 5am and we got on a coach down from Wigan
about six," says Steve as the Victoria line tube train rattles along towards
Pimlico and the EDL's London demonstration a few weeks later. "Reckon I should
be back in time for it to start again at 10."

The carriage is packed with around 50 EDL supporters who set off from the
north-west that morning. They launch into one of the EDL's favourite songs:
"There were 10 Muslim bombers in the air." Steve explains over the din how his
factory is being "overrun by immigrants". Like others on EDL demonstrations, he
exudes a sense of excitement. "We have had enough, no one is taking us seriously
. . . about anything - but they are going to have to listen now."

But the EDL is not only attracting disaffected working-class men. On a chilly
evening in early March, Alan Lake settles into his seat in a cafe in central
London. This smartly dressed man in his mid-40s has emerged as a key figure in
the organisation and is quickly into his stride - warning that the UK will have
sharia law in the next 40 years "unless something is done".

A London-based IT consultant, Lake has spoken at several EDL rallies and sees
himself as one of the organisation's thinkers. "The middle-class intellectuals
are coming forward and also American speakers - some of them quite famous,
although I can't give you names yet . . . they love the fact that we can have
people that can go on the streets."

Addressing a far-right anti-Islam conference in Sweden last year, Lake told
delegates it was necessary to build a united "anti-jihad movement" and spoke of
the need for "people that are ready to go out in the street", boasting that he
and his friends had begun to build alliances with "more physical groups like
football fans". Lake says he is opposed to violence or confrontation but
regularly returns to the importance of the EDL's physical presence.

"The EDL has a lot of support and is growing quickly and crucially what it has
done is deliver an activist movement on the streets," he tells me subsequently.
Pressed on the levels of violence at the demonstrations, he replies: "These
people are not middle-class female teachers . . . if they continue to be
suppressed it will turn nasty in one way or another . . . We have put bodies on
the street, writing letters to the Times does not work . . . if we are going to
have a mess that is so much grist to the mill."

Lake says he is exploring a political future for the EDL - and argues it should
consider throwing its weight behind the UK Independence party. He later
introduces me to Magnus Nielsen - a Ukip candidate in the general election - who
has agreed to speak at forthcoming EDL rallies. Nielsen describes Muhammad as a
"criminal psychopath", "the first cult leader" and "psychiatrically deranged".
Lake says there is "some synergy" between the two groups.

A few weeks later Lake tells me that he is no longer an EDL spokesman. "I am
really working on the Ukip thing so we can offer people an alternative," he
says.

Yesterday a spokesman for Ukip said it would not form any alliance with the EDL
or any other "extremist" group.

However, these efforts appear to be part of tentative steps by the EDL to expand
its reach beyond its street demonstrations. In March a delegation of activists
travelled to Berlin to take part in an anti-Islam rally in support of far-right
anti-immigrant Dutch politician Geert Wilders. It is also forging tentative
links with the US anti-Islam group Stop the Islamification of America, whose New
York demonstration was advertised on the EDL website in April.

Growing unrest

The upshot appears to be a movement that, although chaotic and beset by
infighting, seems to be growing in scope and sometimes violence. At a protest in
Dudley last month, demonstrators threw missiles at the police before ripping
down barriers and rampaging through the town in an attempt to confront
anti-racist protesters and local Asian youths. In Aylesbury a few weeks later
they again clashed with police.

And despite the group's protestations to the contrary, the prospect of serious
unrest is growing. The list of towns the EDL plans to hit this summer is
lengthening - Newcastle today, Cardiff, Dudley and Bradford over the next few
weeks. According to Lowles the stakes are high. "What we are seeing now is the
most serious, most dangerous political phenomenon that we have had in Britain
for a number of years," he says. "With EDL protests that are growing week in,
week out there is a chance for major disorder and a political shift to the
right."

But the appeal of the EDL is not just down to the extreme opinions expressed by
people such as Lake and Nielsen. In Stoke a group of teenagers who were on their
first EDL demonstration said they had come after reading reports that "the
Muslims" were planning to march through Wootton Bassett with 500 coffins. The
proposed march was called by Anjem Choudary and his small extremist group
Islam4UK. The group is reviled by the majority of Muslims and the demonstration
did not go ahead. But this was lost on the outraged teenagers who turned up in
Stoke and subsequently travelled to two of the next three EDL events.

Outside the Morpeth Arms on the banks of the Thames in March supporters gathered
for the EDL's London demonstration. One who had travelled down from Blackburn
was eager to know who had seen a television documentary that he thought showed
how a Muslim group were taking over politics in east London. The EDL had carried
a link to the film on the front of its website and most of the supporters
drinking in the sunshine knew about it.

For Matthew Goodwin, an academic who specialises in far-right politics at
Manchester University, this is a crucial difference between the EDL and previous
far-right street movements.

"The reason why the EDL's adoption of Islamophobia is particularly significant
is that unlike the 1970s, when the National Front was embracing antisemitism,
there are now sections of the media and the British establishment that are
relatively sympathetic towards Islamophobia," says Goodwin. "It is not difficult
to look through the media and find quite hostile views towards Islam and
Muslims. That is fundamentally different to the 1970s, when very few newspapers
or politicians were endorsing the NF's antisemitic message."

"The point for your average voter is that if they see the EDL marching through
their streets shouting about how the neighbourhood is about to be swamped by
Muslims or how the UK is going to be Islamified by 2040, they are also receiving
these cues from other sections of British society . . . the message of the EDL
may well be legitimised if that continues."

The people on the sharp end of the EDL's message echo this view. Mujibul Islam,
chair of the youth committee of the Muslim Council of Britain, says the
foundations for the growth of the EDL have been laid not just by extremists but
by countless political speeches and newspaper articles. "It simply would not be
acceptable to say the things that are being said on these demonstrations about
any other group - black people, Jewish people. But we are now in a position
where it seems almost acceptable to say these things about Muslims."

He said the growth of the EDL was having a real impact on the way ordinary
Muslims were being treated. "A woman I know got on to a tube train which had a
lot of EDL supporters on recently and was really badly abused; another man was
attacked as he made his way home on the train. These are the consequences of
what we are seeing now. It is not just a theoretical debate about freedom of
speech."

Captions:

'We want our country back'

English Defence League members attend a march in January this year. The group is
attracting interest from convicted football hooligans and violent far-right
splinter groups

Photograph: Oli Scarff/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Cameron faces revolt on electoral reform

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 608 words


David Cameron faces a revolt inside the Conservative Party over his decision to
grant the Liberal Democrats a referendum on the voting system for Westminster
elections.

Tory MPs plan to make it harder to secure a "yes" vote in any referendum on the
alternative vote (AV). The wrecking tactics will anger the Liberal Democrats,
because the promise of a chance to change the system was a crucial factor in the
agreement to join the coalition.

Daniel Kawczynski, chairman of the all-party group for the current
first-past-the-post system, said he would table an amendment to the Bill paving
the way for a referendum saying that 40 per cent of the electorate would need to
support change in the public vote before it could be implemented. That would
need a high turnout. A similar amendment scuppered plans for Scottish devolution
in a 1979 referendum. The plan was supported by 52 per cent of those voting but
that amounted to only 33 per cent of the electorate.

Mr Kawczynski, the Tory MP for Shrewsbury and Atcham, said: "If we are to hold a
referendum on AV, it is only fair that any changes are implemented if they hold
the support of a clear majority of the electorate. Fundamental constitutional
change should not be enacted by process of a knee-jerk reaction. It is all-too
easy for voters to pledge support for change to the electoral system;
understanding the implications of this change is, however, something different.
But the implications of AV could not be clearer: a more disproportional system;
legislative gridlock; impersonal politics."

Tory whips will try to squash the rebellion when the Bill comes before
Parliament to head off a row that may put the coalition under strain. But the
proposed amendment could attract the support of some Labour MPs who support
first-past-the-post.

Yesterday Mr Cameron tried to calm Tory critics of the Government's plan to
raise capital gains tax (CGT) from 18 to 40 or 50 per cent, a Liberal Democrat
demand. He told business leaders in Shipley, West Yorkshire, that the issue of
wealthy people paying CGT to avoid higher income tax was a problem but also an
opportunity.

Hinting that savers and entrepreneurs would be protected, he said: "People
should not get ahead of themselves and wait for the Budget." He added: "First,
we must do all we can to promote entrepreneurism. Second, we must address this
problem we have in the tax system of a capital gains tax rate of 18 per cent
against much higher income tax, which is encouraging tax avoidance. At the same
time, remember what we are trying to do here is a modest additional
revenue-raising exercise so we can lift the income allowances, which will
actually help the poorest people in our country."

In his first major speech since becoming Prime Minister, Mr Cameron promised to
transform the economy and "make the next decade the most entrepreneurial and
dynamic in our history". He said he would appoint "city ministers", senior MPs
to help big cities drive forward economic development and clear blockages in
Whitehall.

The Tories and Liberal Democrats took first and second places in the delayed
general election contest in Thirsk and Malton, North Yorkshire. Tory Anne
McIntosh won with 20,167 votes, while the Liberal Democrats' Howard Keal drew
8,886 votes in Thursday's election, pushing Labour's Jonathan Roberts into third
place with 5,169. The election was postponed after the April death of the UK
Independence Party candidate John Boakes.

What British politics needs right now is a decent row

John Walsh, Saturday Opinion, p 35

Tory right-wingers should not try to bring down the Government from the inside

Editorial, Saturday Opinion, page 36

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday

Britain - Con-Dems celebrate last election result

LENGTH: 169 words


Conservative and Liberal Democrat candidates both had cause for celebration
yesterday after securing first and second places in the delayed general election
poll in Thirsk and Malton.

Tory candidate Anne McIntosh won the seat with 20,167 votes, but Lib Dem Howard
Keal beat Labour to second place after receiving 8,886 votes in Thursday's poll.

The election was postponed from May 6 after the death in April of Ukip candidate
John Boakes.

In an apparent show of support for the new coalition government, voters left
Labour candidate Jonathan Roberts in third place with 5,169 votes, a decrease of
6,416 on the notional results for the newly formed constituency.

The result reflects that of neighbouring constituency Richmond, which also saw
the Lib Dems take second place from Labour on May 6.

Toby Horton, who was brought in to run for Ukip after Mr Boakes's death, came
fourth out of five candidates with 2,502 votes and Liberal John Clark received
1,418 votes.

But just 50 per cent of the electorate turned out to vote.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Woolas' seat fight

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 83 words


EX-immigration minister Phil Woolas is facing a legal battle which could see him
lose his seat.

Lib Dem candidate Elwyn Watkins, who lost by 103 votes in Oldham East and
Saddleworth, Gtr Manchester, claims election leaflets sent to voters made false
claims of his character.

It came as a Tory won the delayed poll in Thirsk and Malton, North Yorks,
yesterday. Anne McIntosh got 20,167 votes while Labour fell to third behind the
Lib Dems. It was postponed after the death of UKIP candidate John Boakes.

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 29, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Tories win final seat in general election

BYLINE: Will Pavia

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 92 words


The Conservatives have won Thirsk& Malton in North Yorkshire, securing the last
remaining seat in Parliament (Will Pavia writes).

The contest was delayed after the death of John Boakes, the UKIP candidate. Ann
McIntosh, a former Shadow Environment Minister, was returned with 20,167 votes,
a majority of 13,712.

Victory in the newly created constituency gives the Tories 307 seats. Their
coalition partners, the Lib Dems, against whom they campaigned, came second,
pushing Labour into third. Toby Horton, the new UKIP candidate, came fourth with
2,502 votes.

LOAD-DATE: May 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 28, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

THIRSK'S LAST PAST THE POST

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 47 words


THE general election finally ended in Thirsk and Malton, North Yorks, yesterday,
where the poll was put back after a Ukip candidate died. It was bitchy - Lib
Dems scratching the eyes of likely Tory winner Anne McIntosh. A good sign this
pantomime horse government will one day rip apart.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

Big beasts are on the loose in pastures new: The coalition was talked up - and
down - before delayed Thirsk and Malton election

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 589 words


Cows and sheep which browse North Yorkshire's pastures have new companions this
week - big political beasts, as the hours tick away to the first electoral test
of Westminster's new world.

William Hague and Simon Hughes have stomped around some of the prettiest market
places selling the coalition and yesterday Harriet Harman was out in the rain in
Thirsk's cobbled square, doing the opposite.

This morning, polling stations open in Thirsk and Malton under a seldom
exercised footnote to electoral law which postpones any poll if a candidate dies
after nominations have closed.

In April, Ukip's John Boakes suffered a suspected heart attack; so on 6 May,
voters in the vast new constituency - with 17,000 more voters than the average
of 60,000 - just sat and watched.

"It will be good to have our say at last," said David McIntosh, no relation of
the Conservative candidate - and, barring seismic events, next MP - Anne
McIntosh. "My youngest daughter was all ready to cast her first vote ever, so
she was particularly disappointed."

He runs an ice-cream stall on the beach at Filey, the little-sister resort
between Scarborough and Bridlington on the Yorkshire coast. McIntosh would have
preferred an outright Tory win but likes the notion of stability and
co-operation promoted by the coalition. He would also be happy if his new MP
tabled an amendment ending the delayed election procedure and persuades the
Boundary Commission to add Filey to the constituency's name.

These are minor matters for other locals such as fisherman Andrew Moore, one of
three people in a row on Filey beach who used the phrase "proportional
representation" with an enthusiasm it has not evoked for years. He is about to
pack in his job after earning just £7,000 gross last year for work often lasting
14-hours a day. But he's also packed in voting.

"I'd be Labour or Green but what's the point until we get proportional
representation," he said. "Neither's got a chance here under
first-past-the-post."

But any contribution to reform is welcome if it earns Malton and Thirsk a
national mention, say the three leading candidates - McIntosh, Labour's Jonathan
Roberts and the Lib Dems' Howard Keel. The sunny side of the delayed poll, says
Keel, is the way that a part of "Toryland" usually ignored at election time has
attracted interest.

Glad-handing Harman round Thirsk, Roberts emphasises his born-and-bred
credentials and hopes of talking-up the place, exactly what McIntosh believes
she is better-placed to do. After 13 years as MP for the Vale of York - gone,
but with a third of it now in Thirsk and Malton - she claims a record of
promoting farming, fishing and tourism.

Flood defences are centre-stage too. The turbulent rivers coming from the North
York Moors are another of Thirsk and Malton's rare claims on national attention,
but guarding against them is a potential victim of public spending cuts. "That
won't happen," says McIntosh, who looks forward to seeing the opening of
Pickering's pioneering scheme to use tree-planted berms along the beck beside
the steam railway.

Formerly shadow floods minister, she might expect a phone call as David

Cameron and Nick Clegg work towards their goal of women taking a third of
ministerial posts.

Captions:

Open for business

The poll, postponed in the general election by the death of the Ukip candidate,
will test Westminster's new political landscape Photograph: Christopher Thomond
for the Guardian

Harriet Harman campaigning in the rain in Thirsk with Labour's locally
born-and-bred candidate Jonathan Roberts

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 28, 2010 Friday



CORRECTION: *The Liberal Democrats' candidate in the parliamentary election
being held in Thirsk and Malton is Howard Keal, not Keel as we styled him (Big
beasts are on the loose in pastures new, 27 May, page 21; The view from Thirsk
and Malton, 13 May, page 10).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 27, 2010 Thursday

Letter - The local election picture

LENGTH: 308 words


Will Stone's article (M Star May 18) states that "Labour has gained 415 seats on
councils since the last election, increasing its number of councillors to 2,945
- its best performance since the party's landslide victory."

But there were no local elections in Wales and Scotland in May 2010. Those held
were for all seats in the 32 London boroughs and a third in 132 other English
local authorities (the 36 metropolitan boroughs, 20 unitary authorities and 76
second-tier districts).

Thus, as my forthcoming book Neoliberalism, The State And Local Government,
points out, Labour has 4,836 councillors - not 2,945 - and only 23 per cent of
all councillors in the three nations.

And Labour only controls 54 councils (14 per cent of the total). The Liberal
Democrats have 3,936 councillors (19 per cent of the total) and control 25
councils (6 per cent of the total).

The SNP has 362 councillors and Plaid Cymru has 207 - but nationalists control
no councils. Hence the Tories are still the hegemonic force in local government
with 9,395 councillors (45 per cent of the total) and control of 199 councils
(50 per cent).

There are 1,612 independent councillors (down from 1,633 in 2009) who control 12
councils (four in England, five in Wales and three in Scotland). And 71 (4 per
cent) councils in England, 26 (82 per cent) in Scotland and 13 (59 per cent) in
Wales have no overall control.

The Greens have 119 councillors (down from 136 in 2009), the fascist BNP 28
(down from 60 in 2009), Ukip 21 (up from 16 in 2009), People's Voice in Wales
eight, Respect five (down from 16 in 2008), the Socialist Party one (down from
four in 2009) and the Scottish Socialist Party one.

Therefore, if Labour is to become the hegemonic party in local government, it
will have to ditch its neoliberal policies and elect John McDonnell MP as
leader.

Dr Peter Latham, Croydon.

LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How the gods had the last laugh on health and safety, Cambridge-style

BYLINE: Martin Beckford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 623 words


THE gods, too, are fond of a joke, wrote Aristotle.

So perhaps divine intervention played a part when Cambridge University decided
to use one of the philosopher's quotations on the doors to its new Classics
building, and the inscription included a spelling mistake.

The error - in which a modern English "S" was used instead of a Greek "." - was
seen as poetic justice by at least one professor in the department, who pointed
out that the quote had only been added to the glass doors for health and safety
reasons.

Prof Mary Beard noticed the mistake in the spelling of the word pronounced
"Phusei" (by nature) in the phrase translated as "all men by nature desire to
know" - the opening line of Aristotle's key work, Metaphysics.

The quotation is transcribed on the entrance to a new £1.3million faculty
building at Cambridge's Sidgwick site.The sliding doors themselves have been the
subject of controversy, with tutors and students complaining that they open too
slowly, causing log jams.

Writing on an internet blog posting titled "Door rage", Prof Beard wrote: "Even
the gods have shown their disapproval in their own inimitable way. We decided to
have some nice ancient writing across the offending doors (partly another H&S
[health and safety] requirement - you can't have plain glass doors in case
someone bumps into them - I kid you not).

"One of the quotes we chose was that famous line of Aristotle about 'all men by
nature desiring to know'. But look what happened to the 'S' of 'Phusei' (by
nature) ... an English not a Greek S."

Describing the electronic doors, which are designed to aid disabled visitors,
Prof Beard added: "They look OK.

The problem is opening the damn things. Because they are both (that is the
exterior ones and those that then lead into the lobby) fitted with health and
safety approved disabled operation.

"This means that, in order to open them, you have to press an electronic 'open
door' button - and they then sweep aside dramatically in front of you.
Dramatically and slowly. So, at busy times (like, on the hour, when lectures are
changing over), there is a mass of bodies trying to get into and out of the
building, but needing to wait for the stately pace of the doors' operation.

"Can't you just push them anyway? Yes you can, but they are very heavy indeed
(because of their motor), and not for the frail or those carrying a pile of
books."

She claimed that the doors "repeatedly" break down, adding: "This is disabled
access legislation gone mad (or perhaps done on the cheap). I can't actually
imagine that wheelchair users (not in truth that I have ever seen one taking
advantage of these access arrangements) can be happy with this."

The design of the extension building has already faced criticism from academics
at the nearby department of Asian and Middle Eastern Studies, with Prof Richard
Bowring claiming it was a "far from elegant solution".

Prof Malcolm Schofield, the chairman of the Classics faculty board, insisted it
was "ingenious and elegant".

The university declined to comment.

Words that have spelt trouble Cambridge University is not the first organisation
to be caught out by a spelling error.

Birmingham city council sent out more than 60,000 postal ballot cards in March
with the return address spelt "Birmingam".

The cards also stated that the deadline for their return was 29 May 2009.

Gregorio Iniguez, the general manager of the Chilean mint, was fired after
thousands of coins were issued with a misspelling of the country's name. Instead
of 'Chile', the 2008 batch of 50 peso coins, which are worth about 6p, were
stamped with 'Chiie'.

During the general election. David Duxbury, the Ukip candidate for South Ribble
in Lancashire, sent out a leaflet from the "UK Independance Party".

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Confused: the misspelt word

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday

G2: Pass notes No 2,785 Thirsk and Malton

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 336 words


Age: Less than six months old.

Appearance: North Yorkshire-ish.

Thirsk and Malton? Didn't I see them do the 1956 summer season in Bridlington?
Thirsk sang sharp and Malton was drunk, I seem to recall. No, no. T&M is the new
constituency created this year after recommendations from the Boundary
Commission of England after its examination of parliamentary representation in
North Yorks. It includes the entirety of Ryedale, the Scarborough wards of Filey
and Hartford and several from Hambleton.

Fas. Cin. A. Ting. Although I'm pretty sure I saw Filey and Hartford at the
Alhambra just after the war too. Why is the place in the news now? I imagine it
has won a flat cap or perhaps chip barm competition? You southern snob. It is in
fact about to elect its MP.

They are backward up north, I've always said so! That's not snobbery - that's
now FACT! Just hold up a second. They have had to delay because their Ukip
candidate John Boakes died suddenly in April and under recent changes to
election rules, the constituents therefore had to wait until after the general
election to cast their votes.

So has every party fielded a new candidate? No, just Ukip.

But - hang on - before the general election we did not have a coalition
government . . . Correct. Go on.

But now . . . we do. There's not much gets past you, is there?

So . . . are new BFF(NR)s the Tories and the Lib Dems still fielding competing
candidates? BFF(NR)s?

Best Friends Forever (Not Really). Ah. Yes, yes they are.

That's going to be handbags-at-dawn, isn't it? I'm sure our prospective
parliamentary representatives can be trusted to disport themselves with due
decorum.

Like Joanne Cash did? Honestly, one woman's tiny public meltdown after losing
her seat because of "media lies" doesn't mean we should tar them all with the
same brush. Though that doesn't mean you shouldn't look it up on YouTube and
have a laugh.

Do say: May the best man or woman win.

Don't say: But the woman's Conservative. Can't we just hope the best man that's
not the new Ukip one wins?

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 25, 2010 Tuesday

Feature - Stealing Labour's clothes on libertarianism

BYLINE: Liz Davies

LENGTH: 1204 words


New Labour's shameful record on civil liberties could have allowed Nick Clegg
and David Cameron to pose as defenders of human rights. The Liberal Democrats
and the Tories had joined together to oppose new Labour's 90-day and then 42-day
detention without charge. They had defended the right to trial by jury.

Of course, the Tories happily supported new Labour on indefinite detention and
control orders. They attacked the Human Rights Act, preferring an ill-defined
"British Bill of Rights" designed to pander to xenophobia and prejudice, and
lined up with new Labour's attacks on asylum-seekers.

The Lib Dems had something of a better record. In parliament they had opposed
indefinite detention, control orders and secret evidence. Their manifesto
promised a repeal of control orders, an end to the use of secret evidence in
court and reducing the period of detention without charge in terrorism cases to
14 days, rather than the current 28 days.

Those on the left who had called for a vote for the Lib Dems claimed they would
introduce wider and better-defended civil liberties, as well as proportional
representation. The Guardian, calling for an unequivocal Lib Dem vote, said: "On
civil liberty and criminal justice, they have remained true to liberal values
and human rights in ways that the other parties, Labour more than the Tories in
some respects, have not."

But in the coalition negotiations the Lib Dems proved false, happy to water down
civil liberties and PR for a sniff of power.

The Coalition agreement reads as slightly civil libertarian - scrapping ID
cards, extending freedom of information, defending trial by jury and limiting
police powers to retain DNA samples of people not convicted of a criminal
offence.

It is necessary to read the document for its omissions - the more radical parts
of the Lib Dem's manifesto are firmly off the agenda. Control orders are to be
reviewed, not abolished. Ending secret evidence, 28 day detention and
restrictions on the right to protest are simply dropped.

New Labour's ID cards scheme was already politically defeated. It remains to be
seen whether a Tory government, once it has its feet under the table, will
really extend freedom of information. Defending trial by jury means retaining
the status quo - even new Labour had to retreat on that one. A "review" of
control orders is unlikely to result in their abolition.

The parties have fudged their differences on the Human Rights Act. The Coalition
Agreement contains the Tory promise to have a "commission to investigate the
creation of a British Bill of Rights" with the Lib Dem caveat that it should
"build on all our obligations under the European Convention on Human Rights."

The word on the legal ground is that Tory lawyers think that a British Bill of
Rights is unworkable. However, the Tory Party, egged on by the Daily Mail, hates
the Human Rights Act and, from the measure of the Coalition agreement so far,
it's the Tories that will probably prevail.

Fixed-term parliaments are long overdue, but to entrench Parliament from a vote
of no confidence in the government - requiring a 55 per cent positive vote -
reinforces executive power. Clegg and Cameron have a joint interest in reducing
the power of their backbenchers to derail the coalition.

The agreement states: "We will never condone the use of torture." When does any
politician say the opposite? But foreign nationals may be deported where "there
are verifiable guarantees that they will not be tortured" by the receiving
country. New Labour had an identical policy - relying on memorandums of
understanding from Jordan, Libya and Lebanon that were utterly unenforceable. As
a result, men who had never been convicted of any criminal offence in this
country were deported and disappeared.

Foreign Secretary William Hague's sudden announcement of an inquiry into
allegations that British security services were complicit in torture is welcome.
David Miliband, who as foreign secretary led the charge for keeping allegations
of complicity in torture secret, must be furious. No doubt Hague is delighted to
expose Miliband's role, but whether or not a Conservative government is really
prepared to take on Britain's secret services remains to be seen.

The most humanitarian commitment is the promise not to detain children for
immigration purposes. The fact that it's a right-wing government ending this
national scandal says more about new Labour's inhuman demonisation of
asylum-seekers than it does about Clegg and Cameron.

It is on immigration that the Liberal Dems have conceded most. None of the
mainstream parties are progressive on immigration - they share the premise that
there are too many foreigners in the country and those numbers should be
reduced.

But the Lib Dem proposal of an amnesty after 10 years was, again, a basic
humanitarian policy and better than the existing system. It recognised that,
because of our draconian immigration laws, people who are in this country
illegally lead appalling lives. They can't legally work, they can't claim
benefits, they're not entitled to secure housing and they're supposed to pay for
any NHS treatment, which means in practice that they don't seek medical help at
all. If they survive like that for 10 years, why not recognise their existence,
permit them to work and to pay taxes?

Not only did the Lib Dems drop the amnesty but they capitulated to the Tory cap
on immigration from outside the European Union. During the leaders' debates
Clegg had attacked Cameron not on the principle of a cap but on the practicality
- how is the figure set, what happens to people applying later on in the year
etc. To get into government, even that was abandoned.

It is hardly surprising that Clegg allowed Cameron to set the agenda on
immigration. The Lib Dems are not that progressive on immigration, just a very
little better than the Tories or new Labour.

When mainstream political parties accept a fundamentally racist agenda, and just
disagree about the best way to implement it, it is inevitable that the party
furthest to the right of those right-wing views should prevail. And it is also
unsurprising that the BNP, despite being routed in Barking, still got over half
a million votes nationally, increasing their vote and coming fifth after the
three main parties and UKIP.

A truly progressive policy on immigration would make the case that immigration
is positive for the country, that freedom of movement is something that rich
people take for granted, and that asylum-seekers should be given safe havens,
not treated as criminals. Note that none of the mainstream political parties
proposed ending detention for immigration reasons in principle - even though the
people detained have committed no crime - or ending the dispersal and
stigmatisation of asylum-seekers.

Morning Star readers don't need convincing that the Liberal Dems are not a party
of principle. Those of us who were, or are still, in the Labour Party always
knew that where they oppose Labour in local government they face right and play
dirty. Now, so does the rest of the country.

- Liz Davies is a barrister, political activist and chairwoman of the Haldane
Society of Socialist Lawyers. She writes this column in a personal capacity.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 25, 2010 Tuesday 3:40 PM GMT

General Election 2010: Skeptical Voter - the voting tool for science nerds

BYLINE: By Tom Chivers

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 963 words


Are you, like me, a nerd? Do you care about nerdy things like science and
rationality? Are you wondering, ahead of the 2010 general election, which
parties and candidates also care about basing policy on evidence, rather than
media scaremongering, opinionated ignorance and/or kneejerk populism? If the
answer is yes to all of the above, I would like to point you towards
Skeptical-Voter.org.

Because it's true what they say - this is going to be Britain's first digital
election. But not, you suspect, in the way that the parties might think, or
hope. For every vote swayed by WebCameron or the Labour Party's official
Facebook page, there will be thousands who change their mind because of the
faster spread of information that the internet allows.

Skeptical Voter is a tool, similar in broad intent if not design to our own Vote
Match, that allows voters to find out which parties and candidates match their
views on rationalist topics. Worry that your MP wants creationism taught
alongside evolutionary theory in schools, or to give Sharia legal status in the
UK? Maybe you think homeopathy (I know I go on about it) should be subject to
the same standards of scientific rigour as other NHS treatments, and want to
know which candidate agrees with you. As the Bad Science blogger and Guardian
writer Ben Goldacre put it in a typically acid Tweet, "Does your MP seriously
believe in fairies and magic beans?"

It's more widespread than you might think. David Tredinnick, the Conservative MP
for Bosworth, has used Parliamentary questions to promote homeopathy, "Medical
Astrology", and something called radionics (which Skeptical Voter describes as
"healing via a kind of psychic remote control". This from someone who gets to
vote on health policy bills.

Iris Robinson, the Democratic Unionist Party MP, says "the government has the
responsibility to uphold God's laws", and clearly feels she has a clearer
insight than the rest of us about what those laws are - including banning stem
cell research, despite its potential to transform medicine.

She has offered to put homosexuals in touch with a "psychiatrist [who] tries to
help homosexuals - trying to turn away from what they are engaged in," (she is
also reported on Hansard as saying that homosexuality is "viler" than sexually
abusing children), despite there not being a shred of evidence that such a thing
is even possible, let alone desirable.

Another DUP MP, Jeffrey Donaldson, worries that the Human Fertilisation and
Embryology Bill could lead to "GM babies or cloned adults or minotaurs"
(minotaurs!), while Paul Williams, the UKIP prospective candidate for Oxford
West and Abingdon, believes that "Neither creationism nor evolution have been
conclusively proved or 'settled'. My view is that schools should teach both and
allow pupils to make up their own mind." For the record: it is settled and has
been for years.

There are lots more - and, of course, lots who have admirably sensible views,
like the redoubtable Dr Evan Harris, MP for Oxford West and Abingdon, who
campaigns for "science, evidence-based policy and free speech", and has fought
the good fight against MMR scaremongering. You can also find out which MPs and
candidates have a background in science or medicine - like Caroline Johnson, the
Conservative Party candidate for Scunthorpe, a qualified doctor.

Having said all that, it is far from complete. In my constituency of Dulwich &
West Norwood, only the sitting MP - Tessa Jowell - has an entry, and that's very
sparse. Neither of the two main-party candidates challenging her has a profile
at all. And that's where you come in.

If this matters to you - and it should; if we don't base policy on evidence, we
may as well make it up, or say it comes to us in dreams - you can get involved.
Email your MP to find out where they stand on sceptical and rational issues.
When they reply, go and add the information to Skeptical Voter's Wiki site.

I've included their suggested questions below, but you can of course add your
own. Happy hunting. Wouldn't it be nice to be governed on the basis of what we
actually know, rather than what some kaftanned psychic healer saw in a vision?

Skeptical Voter's suggested questions for candidates ahead of the General
Election 2010:

1. Do you support the use of public funds to provide unproven alternative
"treatments" such as homeopathy?

2. Should schools be allowed to teach creationism as an equivalent theory to
evolution?

3. Do you believe that religious belief should be legally protected from
ridicule?

4. Should an independent government adviser whose views in their area of
expertise conflict with government policy be able to express those views
publicly without fear of being sacked?

5. Should Sharia law be allowed as an alternative system within UK law?

6. Do you agree that testing on animals (within strict criteria) is a necessary
part of the development of medicines?

7. Should policy-makers trust scientific evidence even when it appears
counter-intuitive?

8. Do you think that abortion time limits should always be determined by the
current scientific and medical consensus?

9. Should religious leaders be entitled to vote in the House of Lords?

10. Do you support the reform of English and Welsh libel law to allow a stronger
'public interest' defence?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 24, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A remedy for Britain's short-haul headache;
Travellers must find new ways to Channel-hop so that we're not at the mercy of
the airlines, argues George Pitcher

BYLINE: George Pitcher

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 800 words


Twenty-five years after we married in Piemonte, my wife and I have returned to
north-west Italy to celebrate our silver wedding anniversary. Mrs P wanted to
take the train, as we did a quarter of a century ago, when rail travel was
cheaper than flying - but there wasn't a sleeper ticket to be had. As Turin is a
British Airways destination, the threatened industrial action by cabin crew had
panicked the business classes and holidaymakers alike on to the trains.

It brought home to me just how much our British airlines hold us to short-haul
ransom, by virtue of a 22-mile stretch of shipping lane known as the Channel, or
La Manche. They treat their passengers as freight in the air and cattle on the
ground, and they shouldn't be allowed to get away with it. There are
alternatives, if travellers could only be woken from their trance in the cobra
eyes of the airlines.

As it happens, we drove down here. Does that mean we have hastened the progress
of the planet to a carbonised grave? In truth, I don't much care any more,
though not contributing to an airline's profitability is a good feeling. And
once you are over that stretch of water, you see how easy life could be without
a mile-high hop astride one of British Airways's or easyJet's paraffin budgies.

The beautiful, sweeping motorways consume hundreds of barely noticed kilometres,
and sleek trains glide noiselessly through plains of oilseed rape, as vivid as a
Van Gogh dream. It is possible to rediscover the tranquillity of a journey. We
stopped for the night at a small market town called Poligny, at the foot of the
Alps, where, in a converted water mill incongruously called L'Hôtel Vallée
Heureuse, we ate three magnificent courses, accompanied by lovely local Jura
wines, all for 38 euros. A similar experience may be available in, say,
Macclesfield, but I've yet to find it.

Against that, and in exchange for the illusory convenience of speed, we are
offered interminable airport queues; intrusive - and invariably pointless -
security that requires further wasted hours of waiting in a fluorescent
dystopia; rude and unhelpful staff; inedible food; drinks that you only take as
selfmedicated analgesics; and the vicissitudes of further delays from causes
ranging from volcanic dust or terrorist scares to airline incompetence (this
list is not mutually exclusive). We put up with this because we are seduced by
the idea that it is in some way desirable to spend a couple of hours in the sky
at 600 miles per hour, sandwiched between two similar periods of time checking
in, losing and relocating luggage and probably many more hours travelling to and
from airports.

Our problem, of course, remains the Channel. We still haven't cracked it. Nor
can we still claim that our transport infrastructure on this side is woefully
inadequate. With the new fast line from St Pancras, a friend tells me his
commute from near Ashford in Kent has been cut from 90 to 35 minutes. It might
give Ukip voters the vapours, but if Kent retained its primeval land link with
northern France, we would all be barrelling south by high-speed train rather
than being herded as lambs to the slaughterhouse at the aptly named airport
terminals.

As it is, the capacity of Eurotunnel is pathetically inadequate, as the collapse
of its system demonstrates whenever there is a snarl-up in or near its tunnels.
If you're driving, the Shuttle can feel like a motorised airport, with the only
escape being a ludicrously inflated FlexiPlus ticket, which simply supplies a
croissant, a newspaper and a mildly embarrassing queue-jump in exchange for a
price which is usually close to three times the standard fare.

As for the ferries, I gave up on them when the online booking form asked for the
exact dimensions of my car in centimetres. Don't they know they're competing
with crumby airlines, whose market must be there for the taking? Where are the
new, competitive Chunnels, the sleekly beautiful roll-on, roll-off hydrofoils
leaving every 10 minutes, or even the graceful, sweeping suspension bridges
linking English and French motorways and railway tracks? Buried beneath a
sarcophagus of dismal economics, I presume. But we must look to a future in
which travelling to continental Europe isn't a human experience at the mercy of
the smug arrogance of BA's Willie Walsh or Ryanair's Michael O'Leary, for whom
customers are either a weapon in a power play with a union or travelling assets
to be stripped of their value.

My daughter is joining us here in a couple of days. She is flying Ryanair. I've
told her to expect something like the opening scene of the movie I Am Legend,
when crazed crowds flee a mutant virus in New York. Why put up with that? There
have to be better alternatives to flying.

Comment on George Pitcher's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personal view

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 24, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Confusion reigns among voters set to give first verdict on the coalition;
Candidates are trading acid insults in run-up to postponed polling day

BYLINE: Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 846 words


In the multicoloured new electoral map of Britain a gaping white hole covers a
large swath of rural northern England. It is the constituency that the general
election forgot.

The death of the UKIP candidate early in the campaign forced a postponement of
polling day in the newly created seat of Thirsk & Malton. On May 6, local
residents were the only voters without an invitation to the show.

Instead, householders in villages and market towns across North Yorkshire have a
chance on Thursday to become the first in the country to deliver their verdict
on the Lib-Con coalition. For the Conservative and Liberal Democrat candidates
vying for their support in what is nominally a safe Tory seat, it was a first
opportunity to show how impeccably newly-weds behave when one is rudely thrust
into competition against the other.

Some observers might have hoped that the delayed campaign would be conducted by
the two parties in a new spirit of generosity, decency and fair play. They would
have been disappointed.

Their national leaders may still be dancing cheek to cheek, but Anne McIntosh,
the former Shadow Environment Minister, and her Lib Dem rival, Howard Keal,
treat each other with barely disguised contempt.

Accusations fly back and forth. He urges voters to examine her expenses claims
as MP for the now defunct Vale of York seat. She pauses during a tour of
Helmsley on market day to challenge him to reveal the money that he and his wife
claimed as members of Ryedale council.

Mr Keal is outraged: "It is absolutely shameful and scandalous of Anne McIntosh
to say that. How dare she?" He counters with the charge that Ms McIntosh is
deeply unpopular among Tories in some parts of the new constituency and narrowly
survived a deselection meeting last September. "If he wants to fight a negative
campaign, that's up to him," his rival sighs, before noting that she is
campaigning across the whole constituency while "the Liberal Democrat candidate
can't drive, which seems incredible".

Mr Keal later insists that he does hold a driving licence but chooses to use
public transport whenever possible. This is a long way from Westminster.

The Deputy Prime Minister might be interested to learn that Malton's
longstanding Conservative county councillor, Michael Knaggs, "wouldn't trust the
Liberal Democrats as far as I could throw them".

For Mr Keal, meanwhile, a vote for the Lib Dems is essential to moderate such
extreme Tory policies as "their terrible plans for cuts in inheritance tax".

When each takes a brief break from criticising the other, both express their
warm support for the coalition Government and the new spirit of co-operation
between their parties. Small wonder that many potential voters seem confused.

In a genteel tea room off Thirsk's cobbled market square, Melanie Casey and Jane
Simpson felt the value of their vote had been diminished by the postponed
polling day.

"I don't think it matters what we do. The die's been cast and this was already a
staunch Conservative seat. If it wasn't for Emily [Pankhurst], I wouldn't be
voting at all," said Ms Simpson. The local postwoman, Debbie Swift, delivered
the mail to 600 addresses yesterday. Only one had an election poster in its
window. A lot of her friends say they will not be voting because they think
"it's three weeks too late".

John Wilmott, a retired doctor in Malton, said he and his wife had intended to
vote Lib Dem in the election but the coalition deal has made them consider
switching to Labour. "I'm wavering," he tells Mr Keal. "When these coalitions
occur, one of the parties tends to get trampled on and I think the Conservatives
might roll you over."

On the assumption that Lib Dems are unlikely to vote UKIP, those seeking to
advertise their displeasure with Mr Clegg have two options.

They could vote for Labour, whose youthful candidate, Jonathan Roberts,
intriguingly promises that if he is elected he will "never boo, jeer or mock
other MPs in the House of Commons or anywhere else". The alternative is the
Liberal candidate, John Clark, a local county councillor who gleefully points to
one of Mr Keal's election leaflets, issued some weeks ago. It boldly proclaimed:
"Our NHS: at risk with the Conservatives" and proceeded to ask: "What else
aren't the Conservatives telling us?" "I think a lot of Lib Dem activists are
sitting there, emotionally stunned by what's happened," Mr Clark said. "I'm
getting a lot of phone calls and e-mails from people saying they feel they've
been conned. My message is that those Liberal Democrats with a strong commitment
to creating a radical, green, liberal, non-Tory society should make contact with
me. I'll never sell out to the perks of power."

Back in Helmsley, a Conservative campaigner swoops on a man whose stall is
selling Yorkshire flat caps. Can the party rely on his support? He turns out to
be French. And a supporter of the British National Party.

He was not the day's only evidence that in this brave new political world
appearances can be deceptive and allegiances uncertain. The coalition's first
electoral test is proving quite testing.

LOAD-DATE: May 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jane Simpson, left, and Melanie Casey in a café in the centre of
Thirsk, North Yorkshire, feel their votes' value has been diminished because of
the delayed poll

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 23, 2010 Sunday

Laïcité and the French veil debate

BYLINE: Nabila Ramdaniguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 840 words

ABSTRACT

Nabila Ramdani: In France, unlike the UK, the debate over face-veils hinges on a
much-cherished and uniquely French notion: laïcité

FULL TEXT

When the usually highly articulate , the leader of the UK Independence Party
(Ukip), raised the prospect of  early this year his choice of language summed up
the poor level of debate on the subject. "We are not Muslim bashing", the peer
said, "but this is incompatible with Britain's values of freedom and democracy."
This mix of ugly vernacular and banal generalisation was far from impressive.
Rather than convincing people that the burqa (the cloak that covers a woman from
head to foot, most often seen in Afghanistan) and the niqab (the more genuinely
Islamic veil that conceals a woman's face) were an affront to traditional
British values, he merely played into the hands of racists who detest most
manifestations of foreign cultures, and especially ones linked - however
spuriously - with alien religions.

France, by contrast, is largely pursuing its own  within the context of the
country's commitment to the secular society, or , as it is referred to on the
other side of the Channel. When the country imposed a ban on religious symbols,
including the Islamic headscarf, in state schools in 2004, it was not because
they weren't French enough, but because they were not secular. A burqa and niqab
ban can, according to this reasoning, be imposed outside any nationalistic
debate.

That said, in June last year President Nicolas Sarkozy was widely criticised for
targeting full-veil wearers as part of his Ukip-style national identity debate.
He wanted to attract supporters of the increasingly discredited  party to his
own cause, declaring both burqas and niqabs to be "an affront to Republican
values". Like Ukip, Sarkozy argued that the garments had no basis in Islam, were
a threat to gender equality, marginalised women, and endangered public safety
because terrorists could use them to hide their identity, or every kind of
criminal, from bank robbers to shop lifters, could use them to steal. As Sarkozy
told a recent cabinet meeting: "Citizenship should be experienced with an
uncovered face. There can be no other solution but a ban in all public places."

Such rhetoric clearly offended thousands in France, a country which has the
largest Muslim population in Europe, of between five and six million (there are
no official figures, for the obvious reason that a secular state does not count
its religious affiliates). It was left to a Communist, , to revert the debate to
laïcité. As chairman of the cross-party parliamentary committee tasked with
formulating a ban, he argued that wearing a veil was just "the tip of the
iceberg" of "scandalous practices hidden behind the veil", mainly to do with
those "seeking to export a radical brand of Islamic fundamentalism to France".

In fact only about 2,000 women are thought to wear the niqab or the burqa.
Around a third of these are French wives who have converted to Islam following a
marriage to a Muslim, and they tend to come from poor backgrounds.
Significantly, very few feminist groups have actually supported these women's
freedom to cover-up, arguing that it is men who are invariably forcing them to
do so. It is for this reason that the envisaged banning bill offers a year in
prison and a fine of more than £15,000 to anyone convicted of forcing a woman to
wear a full-veil. This compares to a nominal £100 fine - or even just
citizenship classes - for any woman caught covering her face.

The fines ignore what I would contend is a significant number of women who in
fact define themselves by their veils, choosing to wear them despite what anyone
else thinks or says, especially male figures in their lives. However, beyond the
polarisation of the debate between left (radical feminists) and right (extreme
nationalists) there is no doubt that there is an increasingly vocal middle
ground made up of staunch defenders of laïcité.

Polls reveal that the overwhelmingly majority of French people view full-veils
as an attack on secularism. This prompted Gerin's committee to propose a ban
inside public buildings, including schools and hospitals, and on the national
transport system. Muslim leaders, in turn, admitted that face-covering is not
required by Islam, even though they warned that a full ban risks stigmatising
all Muslims.

The bill goes before parliament in July and, although the acrimonious debate is
sure to continue, it is almost guaranteed to become law. France would become the
second country in Europe to impose a ban, . What is certain is that any French
law will be tested fully. Some veil wearers say they will take their case to the
European court of human rights. In March the council of state, France's highest
constitutional authority, said a ban was likely to violate both the French
constitution, and the European convention for the protection of human rights and
fundamental freedoms.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 23, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BRITAIN BEWARE: WHY EURO CRISIS IS A PROBLEM FOR US TOO;
It has been a week of turmoil in the markets as EU politicians struggled to
shore up the single currency. But what does it mean for the UK economy?

BYLINE: BRUNO WATERFIELD; ANGELA MONAGHAN

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1913 words


THERE was more than a whiff of Schadenfreude in the air as David Cameron arrived
to a red carpet and a full military honour guard on his first visit as Prime
Minister to Berlin's Chancellery.

Looking fresh and clearly relishing his first appearance on the European stage,
the British leader, 43, was welcomed by a drawn-looking Angela Merkel.

The German Chancellor, 55, had cause to be weary after a tumultuous week, the
worst in her long political career, had pushed her government and the European
Union's precious single currency to the brink.

Just under two hours before Mr Cameron's arrival, Chancellor Merkel had pushed
through emergency legislation committing Germany to the EU's (EURO)750 billion
rescue package for the eurozone.

Her "victory" came at a price. Germany must now stump up anything between
(EURO)123bn and (EURO)147.6bn in loan guarantees to help highly-indebted
southern European countries in danger of crashing the eurozone by defaulting on
their debts.

Despite ramping up warlike rhetoric about an "existential" threat to the euro,
and thus to Germany, the bill passed by a margin of just seven votes, inflicting
a possibly terminal wound on Mrs Merkel's Christian Democrat and Liberal
coalition.

In a desperate attempt to apply bandages to the wounded single currency,
European Council president Herman Van Rompuy (once described as less interesting
than a face flannel by UKIP's Nigel Farage) has now demanded greater economic
"coordination" across the eurozone - and for that read political coordination.
Countries that did not have a disciplined approach to budgets would face strict
measures.

"There was a broad consensus on the principles of having sanctions, financial
sanctions and non-financial sanctions," Mr Van Rompuy said. Measures could
include losing voting rights in the council of ministers for budgetary laxity or
having EU funding lines withdrawn. A final report on imposing budgetary
discipline will be finalised in October.

In contrast to the beleagured Ms Merkel, Mr Cameron, outside the euro and the
crushing burdens it has inflicted on Germany, had a spring in his step during
his visit to Berlin at the end of last week. This was a moment when Britain's
own deep fiscal and economic problems appeared but a molehill before the
mountain of the eurozone debt crisis.

But despite Mr Cameron's relaxed air, a new danger is stalking Britain and it is
one directly linked to the problems on the other side of the Channel. This fresh
challenge is a contagion of a sort - not the currency and debt contagion often
mentioned - but an economic contagion that could have a far wider impact. If the
eurozone fails to pull itself out of the downward spiral and ends up plunging
into the furious sea of market distrust, Britain could be pulled overboard as
well.

The Bank of England has been persistent in the message that the prospect of weak
growth in the eurozone, Britain's largest trading partner, could have serious
consequences for the economic repair job at home.

Without growth, there will be little demand there for Britain's exports, just at
the time when politicians and policymakers are hoping for an export-led
recovery.

Moreover, if the euro weakens against the pound, Britain will at least partially
lose the competitive edge afforded by the depreciation of sterling.

Global market volatility over the past fortnight has stemmed from a fundamental
lack of confidence in the ability of some troubled eurozone countries to take
the necessary action to reduce their deficits.

Fears over Greek debt problems became fears over Portugal and fears over Spain.
Would governments be able to face down their voters and cut the huge public
sector budgets? Or would the eurozone be constantly teetering on the edge of
crisis, constantly having to dip into emergency funds to shore up the edifice.
The Sunday Telegraph report today on US hedgefunds taking out short positions
against the euro suggests the latter is more likely.

It is true that the wave of debt contagion panic that swept across the eurozone
countries did not spread directly to Britain, despite its huge deficit. "Markets
could easily have identified the UK as a target and shunned UK assets," said
Philip Shaw, economist at Investec.

However, there are key differences. For one - the obvious one - the UK is not a
member of the single currency, and figures on Friday showed Britain's deficit,
although horrific, was not quite as horrific as feared in 2009-10. The Office
for National Statistics revealed a surge in tax receipts that meant it could
revise downwards its estimate of the deficit by £7bn to £156bn.

Investors have also been sufficiently reassured, for the time being at least,
that the UK Government possesses the will and the ability to make the necessary
cuts.

George Osborne, as we reveal today, will give more detail tomorrow on cutting
back the "quango-state" and finding up to £6bn of savings across the public
sector. One mooted plan is to cut the Department of Business, Innovations and
Skills by £900m, raising fears from employers that grants to industries could be
withdrawn.

The real danger for the UK is that eurozone weakness will undermine sustained
recovery following two quarters of weak growth.

"The big risk is the impact on exports to the eurozone, so if anything does
happen to growth in Europe, it will have an impact," said George Buckley,
economist at Deutsche Bank.

Alan Clarke, economist at BNP Paribas, said deterioration in the eurozone
economy heightened the risk of a double-dip recession in Britain, but said that
was not the mostly likely outcome as things stand.

Recovery in the eurozone has been weak, growing at the same pace as the UK in
the first quarter by 0.2pc. What happens from the second quarter onwards will be
crucial.

Simon Ward, chief economist at Henderson, said Britain's reliance on the
eurozone as an export market was only part of the problem.

"Obviously there is concern about exports to the eurozone, but the bigger issue
is that it looked as though the business sector in the UK was reviving," he
said.

"The hope was that business investment and employment would start picking up,
but the concern now is that business confidence will be knocked on the head
again and this will set back the recovery dynamic."

He said UK growth in the early stages has largely been down to changes in the
stock cycle, as businesses that had run down their stocks came to the end of
that process and demand began to rise again.

"The hope was that the recovery was moving into a more sustained phase, but the
risk is that it has been derailed."

So, although Britain has remained steadfastly independent, with its own currency
and monetary policy, the short-term fate of the economy lies in the hands of
Europe.

Of course, Mr Cameron could be forgiven for making some political hay of the
steadfastly anti-single currency position he has taken whilst leader of the
Conservatives.

In Paris on Thursday evening, after talks with Nicolas Sarkozy, the French
President, the Conservative leader made clear that he believed he was on the
right side of the debate.

"I always had concerns about the euro on a fundamental level," he said,
alongside a visibly irritated President Sarkozy.

By the following day, the Prime Minister told Ms Merkel that not only was
Britain outside the euro and its woes, he would block German proposals, tabled
at a meeting of finance ministers on Friday, to give the EU new economic powers
to police the budgets of singlecurrency member states.

"Britain wants a strong and stable eurozone," he said.

"Britain is not in the euro and is not going to be joining the euro. So Britain
would not agree to any arrangement or treaty that drew us further into
supporting the euro area. Any treaty - even one that just applied to the euro
area - needs unanimous agreement of all 27 member states, including the UK,
which of course has a veto."

Privately, Mrs Merkel and senior German officials have said they are puzzled but
not surprised at the British attitude to the euro crisis. There has been
irritation that the UK has steadfastly kept itself out of the euro rescue plan.
But Germans, used to shaking their heads over British euro-coolness, expect
nothing else.

During his Berlin talks, Mr Cameron was told that Germany sees Britain, with the
EU's highest budget deficit this year, as a prime candidate for contagion if
market panic over Greece, Portugal and Spain spreads further.

"We're really worried about Britain," said a German official. "The British will
make their first serious announcement about how they intend to cut the deficits
next month. That moment is going to be the real test. If it is not stringent
enough, markets will react as they have against previous, insufficient
Portuguese and Spanish austerity measures. Britain hasn't faced the test - yet."

The German experience last week underlined the heavy economic and political toll
of a crisis that is pushing Europe, and its nation states, into dangerous and
uncharted waters.

On Wednesday, Germany's decision to unilaterally ban naked short selling of EU
government debt and banks wiped billions of euros off the value of shares and
drove the single currency down to a four year low.

The move - described as "crackers" by one British official - infuriated
Germany's European partners, leading to public recriminations from Christine
Lagarde, the French finance minister.

But Ms Merkel, and Wolfgang Schaeuble, her finance minister, had little choice
in the matter. The decision was taken, in full knowledge of its destructive
effects, because of the German Chancellor's increasing desperation ahead of last
Friday's vote on the euro bailout.

Her own coalition members and increasingly restive opposition MPs had to be
shown that Germany was acting to protect itself and not simply rolling over and
writing a multibillion euro cheque from the taxpayer to bail out a series of
broken economies. Somebody had to be shown to be paying and Ms Merkel decided
"speculators" were the easiest target.

Outside Berlin, Mrs Merkel's announcement that the euro was in danger seemed to
be an extra moment of madness as jittery markets plunged and dived.

"The current crisis facing the euro is the biggest test Europe has faced in
decades," she said.

"It is an existential test and it must be overcome. If the euro fails, then
Europe fails," she said, during a rowdy session of Germany's usually consensual
federal parliament.

But the unprecedented rhetoric was forced on the German leader, who is not
normally predisposed to hyperbole. She was aware that Friday's close vote on the
trillion dollar euro rescue package could be lost as German MPs, already
hammered by a furious backlash against the Greek bailout, recoiled from new
commitments worth over five times the (EURO)22.4 billion earmarked for Greece.

Ms Merkel's desperate judgement was that market turbulence was a risk but a
price worth paying to avoid the international financial meltdown that would have
taken place if the German parliament had rejected the eurozone package.

"We had a crisis. A no vote would have been the crash," said one senior German
official.

For the moment, Britain can wait on the sidelines, watching cautiously as the
currency crisis twists one way and another. But, if and when the UK's own
economy starts to suffer, those warning "beware" will have to be listened to
rather more carefully.

"Germany sees Britain as a prime candidate for contagion if market panic over
Greece, Portugal and Spain spreads further

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Angela Merkel, above, after narrowly pushing through Germany's
contribution to the eurozone rescue package and, below, a broker surveys the
damage to the German stock market

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 23, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MEPs earmark ¤5m for iPads

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 411 words


THEY are renowned for never knowingly missing a perk.

Now MEPs have decided that, financial crisis or not, they will snaffle a
taxpayerfunded Apple iPad for every member once the latest computer must-have is
launched on the European market.

The European parliament's Bureau, its administrative office, has earmarked
¤4.95m for an "IT mobility project".

Bad as the financial crisis may be, the Bureau has decided that all 736 MEPs
need to become more "connected" and that the iPad, a portable tablet computer,
is just the device to enable them to do more on the move.

The iPads, likely to cost about ¤500, will be highly coveted when they are
released on to the European market on May 28. More than half a million of the
sleek machines were bought in the week that Steve Jobs, head of Apple, launched
them in the United States earlier this year.

Although MEPs have recently been equipped with new Hewlett Packard laptops, some
have told the Bureau they find them cumbersome in comparison with the iPad.

The driving force behind the idea is Klaus Welle, the parliament's German
secretary general, who is known as an enthusiast for the iPhone, already a
popular Apple product.

The iPad plan was disclosed by a senior Bureau source who was too worried to
reveal his name. He said: "We could get rid of our old PCs, some of which have
outdated software such as Microsoft Word 2003," the source said.

"The majority of MEPs have already got iPhones and they are very happy with
them. The PC was good for its time but the iPad is a much better device."

Marta Andreasen, the British UKIP MEP who sits on the budget committee, said:
"We were told the iPads would actually cut costs as they are not expensive. But
it seems completely unnecessary, especially when European taxpayers are facing
such difficult times."

A parliament spokeswoman denied there were plans to obtain iPads for MEPs in the
"immediate future" and said she was not familiar with the Bureau initiative.

Nessa Childers, the Irish Labour party MEP for the East, said she could see the
merit in the proposal, but was not convinced that it was necessary.

Sean Kelly, Fine Gael's South MEP, said that he didn't feel there was any
necessity for an iPad. "I suppose I could learn how to use it if I had to, but
to be honest, at the minute I'm quite adequate in terms of IT," he said. "I have
my mobile and laptop, and a parliamentary assistant to help me. I don't see that
an iPad would be an absolute priority at this time."

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 23, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MEPs get £4m taste for Apple iPad

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevksi

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 356 words


THEY are renowned for never knowingly missing a perk. Now MEPs have decided
that, financial crisis or not, they will snaffle a taxpayer-funded Apple iPad
for every member once the latest computer musthave is launched on the European
market.

The European parliament's bureau, its administrative office, has earmarked £4.3m
for an "IT mobility project".

Bad though the financial crisis may be, the bureau has decided that all 736 MEPs
need to become more "connected" and that the iPad, a portable tablet computer,
is just the device to enable them to do more on the move.

The iPads, likely to cost more than £500 each, will be highly coveted when they
are released onto the European market on Friday. Half a million of the devices
were bought in America in the week that Steve Jobs, head of Apple, launched them
earlier this year.

Although MEPs have recently been equipped with new Hewlett-Packard laptops, some
have told the bureau they find them cumbersome in comparison with the iPad.

The driving force behind the idea is Klaus Welle, the parliament's German
secretarygeneral, who is known as an enthusiast of the iPhone, another popular
Apple product. The iPad plan was disclosed by a senior bureau source who was too
worried to reveal his name. "We could get rid of our old PCs, some of which have
outdated software such as Microsoft Word 2003," the source said.

"The majority of MEPs have already got iPhones and they are very happy with
them. The PC was good for its time but the iPad is a much better device."

Marta Andreasen, the UKIP member who sits on the budget committee, said: "We
were told the iPads would actually cut costs as they are not expensive and that
we would be able to stay connected while outside the office or on holidays, but
many of the older MEPs don't even know how to use the internet properly.

"I am against that because it seems completely unnecessary, especially when
European taxpayers are facing such difficult times."

A parliament spokeswoman denied that there were plans to obtain iPads for MEPs
in the "immediate future" and said she was not familiar with the bureau
initiative.

Get iPaddling, InGear, page 24-25

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 22, 2010 Saturday

Weekend: BACK: The royal wedding: the sequel

BYLINE: Lucy Mangan

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 86

LENGTH: 642 words


Did you see that Abi Morgan drama on BBC2 on Monday, Royal Wedding? I've been
told it was pretty good. I did watch it, but I was so dizzied by the vertiginous
drop into memory occasioned by the footage of the actual royal wedding -
dateline 29 July 1981 - that I couldn't attend properly.

Do you know what I was doing on 29 July 1981? I was sitting on the sofa with my
sister, eyes as big as saucers, clutching our joint Lady Diana scrapbook,
drinking in every moment and wearing plastic Union Jack bowler hats. We must
have looked like Toddlers for Ukip. (I was seven at the time, but the years of
emotional abuse and a diet consisting solely of burnt fish fingers and fear had
stunted my growth considerably.)

Oh, she was so beeyootiful! The doe eyes! The hair! My mother and her friend
noted with satisfaction that it had been specially brushed back from her face
for the day, but even this intrusion of maternal practicalities into magic could
not entirely break the spell. Nor could the fact that the bride's dress, as she
descended on to terra firma, had obviously been crushed to buggery in the
landau. A landau! Be still my beating heart. It was a pity the man she was
marrying was so ugly, but at least, as my paternal grandmother pointed out, he'd
bought her a decent ring - good for pawning if the going ever got tough. I
thought this was very considerate of him.

And of course we had the day off school. And every child in - what? The borough?
The south-east? The country? - got a silver(ish) spoon with the happy couple on
the handle (he still looked ugly, she still looked beeyootiful) to mark the day.

O tempora! O mores! What were we thinking? What was the entire nation thinking?
It is the perfect example of the truism that there is nothing more strange to us
than the recent past. It is baffling, a picture of a different world. How was it
ever possible that we - and I am no longer talking only of bowler-hatted
children on their sofas, waving their flags and jam spoons - were so innocent?
Were we idiots or just, in those unfathomably distant pre-internet, pre-entirely
rabid-tabloid days, ignorant? Were the cynics gagged or did sentiment just drown
them out?

If and when Prince William ever decides to make an honest woman of Kate
Middleton, rather than simply ennoble her for services to the royal penis and
the A-line skirt, I doubt whether today's seven-year-olds will be able to muster
the requisite enthusiasm for the endeavour, never mind the rest of the country.
A free spoon won't elicit much

pro-monarchical fever these days. "Come back to us with a gold-plated Wii and
we'll talk, mofo," they will say to the market researchers beating a hasty
retreat under a hail of Ritalin bottles and knives. A day off school will just
cause them to fail their Sats and doom them to a lifetime of burger-flipping and
fomentation of rebellion against King Wills and his queen. They will be baffled
that the shimmering figure under the Westminster Abbey transept towards whom the
bride glides is not Simon Cowell but the Archbishop of Canterbury.

No, the architects of the next royal wedding will have to market it as a sequel,
or a re-imagining like Doctor Who or Battlestar Galactica, in order to bring
everyone on board. Tell the children the protagonists are avatars. Tell the
adults there are Easter eggs hidden throughout proceedings, including a
reference to the gratitude of people of Australia, cut for reasons of space from
the 1981 original, with commemorative landau keyrings given to those who spot
them all. And, of course, all the English parts to be played by Americans played
by public schoolboys. I'd watch. I might even make a scrapbook again.

The Reluctant Bride by Lucy Mangan is published by John Murray at £7.99. To
order a copy for £6.99 (including UK mainland p&p), go to
guardian.co.uk/bookshop or call 0330 333 6846.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 21, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

SOMEBODY SHOULD TELL UKIP'S NIGEL [...]

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 19 words


SOMEBODY should tell Ukip's Nigel Farage that the election's over, and he
doesn't need to go out canvassing any more...

LOAD-DATE: May 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 19, 2010 Wednesday

The new government: Phil Woolas: Immigration minister: our policy was right, we
just didn't tell people

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 676 words


Labour came "too late" to the issue of immigration and failed to publicise plans
to save as much as £4.5bn by withdrawing welfare benefits from hundreds of
thousands of those seeking indefinite leave to remain, the former minister Phil
Woolas told the Guardian yesterday.

A succession of influential Labour figures, ranging from Jon Cruddas, Ed Balls,
Ed Miliband and David Miliband have all now argued the party did not tackle the
immigration issue during the election campaign, leading to the desertion of
unskilled working-class voters.

Woolas, who as immigration minister repeatedly tried to address the issue in the
blunt language of tabloid newspapers, said: "What we did was not too little, but
it was too late. People felt we were shutting the stable door after the horse
had bolted.

"We also came under attack from the rightwing press, so when tabloids saw we
were going on the front foot about immigration, they attacked us day after day,
saying the system was not working."

He said he became increasingly frustrated that the party did not advertise its
policy of restricting immigrants' access to welfare benefits and social housing
by introducing new probationary citizenships dependent on tests that could take
as long as five to seven years.

He said: "The policy started to be introduced three years ago, but not enough
people knew about it. It did not seem to be in the DNA of the government. I felt
I was one of the few people talking about it, yet it was the most popular policy
in the manifesto. I was repeatedly telling the campaign team we needed to
highlight the policy.

"Gordon (Brown) tried to engage with the issue, and Alan Johnson as home
secretary understood it, but the bulk of the campaign was either about the
economy, or the Liberal Democrat policy of amnesty or the Tory policy of a cap.

"In retrospect Gordon should have advertised the change in policy when he became
prime minister in 2007. Gordon came up with British jobs for British workers,
but people did not believe it. That was not their experience of the jobs
market."

Labour introduced a points-based system to give visas to non-EU workers only
when UK residents did not have the right skills, but Liam Byrne, a previous
immigration minister, has claimed the public did not have time to see how the
policy was working.

Woolas admitted: "There was also a real problem I tried to have a clear, tough
policy and everyone in the cabinet said they agreed it, but then in every part
of Whitehall someone was demanding an exception - whether it was Gurkhas,
businessmen or students."

Patrick Diamond, the former No 10 manifesto co-ordinator, said yesterday: "The
manifesto did develop some of the thinking about immigrants, but it was
incremental. In my view immigration was the single biggest issue of the
election, and it is about the cultural ethos of the party, not policy. It is
about whether we are seen as a liberal cosmopolitan party that does not regard
as intolerable people that care about issues of immigration or race.

"Politics is about acknowledgement. It is one of the oldest dilemmas in
politics. Do we fight elections on terrain with which you are familiar, and you
regard as your own, such as the economy, or do you go into so-called enemy
territory, such as immigration?"

Although Labour just held Rochdale, the constituency in which Gillian Duffy the
"bigoted" pensioner confronted Brown, Labour may have done so because Ukip, the
National Front and the BNP together polled 9% of the vote for the first time.

Although there is consensus that immigration was a major doorstep issue,
differences exist within Labour over how to address it.

Cruddas has consistently argued that immigration has been deliberately used as a
way of depressing labour costs by flooding the market with cheap labour, and the
solution to this lies in tackling the exploited immigrant workforce through
better protection of agency workers and tighter monitoring of the minimum wage.
But others believe the party has to show it understands anger at the speed with
which communities have changed.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 19, 2010 Wednesday 11:35 PM GMT

UKIP: a party with fewer than 1m votes, no Commons seats - and the power to
destroy Dave

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 717 words


The morning after polling day was not a good time for UKIP voters. As they
scanned the still incoming results they felt a keen sense of disappointment.
They had failed to break through the psychological barrier of one million
Westminster votes, despite gaining nearly 2.5 million in last year's European
elections. Nigel Farage, their standard bearer, had come in third against the
unspeakable Speaker in Buckingham and in many constituencies they were
registering votes of just two or three thousand.

After the provocation afforded by 13 years of Labour rule and David Cameron's
reneging on a Lisbon Treaty referendum, the hoped-for breakthrough had not
occurred. UKIP supporters were dispirited and their enemies did not hesitate to
exploit this momentary decline in morale, rubbing salt into the wound with
inventive claims of "victory" for the Conservatives. All of which demonstrates
the inadvisability of rushing to judgment in the closing stages of a general
election count. Today, the landscape looks completely different and, to UKIP
eyes, bright and sunny.

Detailed examination of the election results reveals that UKIP deprived the
Vichy Tories of victory in 21 seats. That is a psephological fact: it is
incontrovertible. Tory spinners have tried hard, claiming that in those seats
where the UKIP vote was larger than the Labour or Liberal Democrat majority over
the Tory candidate, those were not necessarily ex-Conservative votes. True, a
few of them may have come from elsewhere. But any respectable political analyst
will confirm that the majority of UKIP votes come from disillusioned Tories. In
the 21 seats in question, the UKIP vote was so much larger than the majority
that there can be no doubt it was alienated Conservatives who cost Dave his
victory.

That fact is of enormous significance. It means that those disaffected Tories
whom Francis Maude and the modernising gang calculatedly drove out of the
Conservative Party now hold the Cameronians' fate in their hands. They are in a
position permanently to interdict a non-coalition Conservative government. This
is an extraordinary situation for a party which is, on paper, so insubstantial
as UKIP. It is a most unusual political party. Unlike any other, it makes no
secret of its longing to disband, if only Britain's sovereignty could first be
regained. UKIP is the reverse of power-hungry. It has made repeated offers to
the Vichy Tories to stand down in return for quite modest concessions, only to
be contemptuously rebuffed.

So, here we have a party with fewer than one million voters in a Westminster
context, which has no seat in the House of Commons and may never win one, but
holds the fate of one of the two great parties of state in its hands. Before the
election it was extremely difficult to see how the egregious Dave could be
stopped in his lemming stampede to liquidate true Toryism. Now his opponents
know how. If every disaffected Tory votes for UKIP for the foreseeable future,
Dave's goose is cooked. By pouring all the disaffected votes into one
alternative receptacle, the Vichy Tories can be stopped. UKIP is beginning to
attract additional support from socially conservative Tories, for whom the
European issue, though important, may not be the chief priority. That coalition
of the disaffected spells trouble for Dave.

Mature consideration of the results also showed that UKIP had increased its vote
from the 2005 general election by 50 per cent, up to around 900,000. Next time
it will certainly pass the million mark. Until May 6, Dave enjoyed the advantage
of seeing his opponents in disarray and so unlikely to be able to inflict
serious damage on him. Now, they have successfully forced him into a coalition
which carries within it the seeds of its own destruction. No political party has
ever emerged with credit from a coalition.

The much-despised UKIP holds the veto over any future Conservative government.
You may be sure the number-crunchers in CCHQ are very aware of this; so, too,
are Conservative backbenchers with wafer-thin majorities, ripe for the UKIP
sickle at the next electoral harvest. Not since David and Goliath have we seen a
confrontation like this. UKIP is a mini-party, staffed by amateurs, supported by
idealists, with relatively little support - and, suddenly, enormous influence.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

NOW THAT'S GRATITUDE!

BYLINE: BY JAYA NARAIN

LENGTH: 486 words


BIG ISSUE SELLER ROBS CHRISTIAN WHO GAVE HIM CASH AND A JOB

WHEN devout Christian lawyer Richard Rawsthorn saw James McConnell selling the
Big Issue, he did the decent thing and bought a copy.

It was the first of many encounters between the two as McConnell's pitch was
near the offices of the law firm where Mr Rawsthorn was a senior partner. He
took pity on the

35-year-old homeless drug addict and began giving him money.

Eventually he gave McConnell and his girlfriend jobs as cleaners at his country
home.

McConnell repaid the kindness - by plundering the property. He stole the
solicitor's three prized saxophones, a trumpet, two digital cameras and two
laptop computers in a haul worth around 66,000.

Sentencing him to nine months in prison, the judge Recorder Alan Conrad QC, told
McConnell: 'This was despicable behaviour towards a man who had shown you only
kindness and generosity.'

After being sentenced McConnell, who admitted theft, shouted abuse at the judge
saying: 'I hope you choke to death. You are a horrible man.'

Despite McConnell's actions, Mr Rawsthorn, a former UKIP parliamentary
candidate, said he felt he should shoulder some of the blame.

'It shook me that he had betrayed my trust so badly but I have forgiven him,' he
said. 'People may think I am even more foolish to do that but the fact is that
he was a drug addict and I hadn't appreciated what that really meant.

'It was like placing a labrador in a butcher's shop and expecting it not to eat
the meat. I feel guilty because by putting him in that position I may have
derailed his chances of recovering from his addiction in the near future.

'It hasn't shaken my faith in human nature completely - I would still give money
to people who need it.'

Burnley Crown Court heard Mr Rawsthorn, 59, had met McConnell in early summer
last year near the office in Manchester where he works in conveyancing and
property law. David

Macro, prosecuting, said the solicitor frequently gave him money. On one
occasion, McConnell told the victim he owed 610,000, had a partner and child and
was trying to get off the streets and set up home with her.

Last autumn, McConnell told Mr Rawsthorn he wanted to attend chapel with the
solicitor. McConnellturned up there the following Sunday with a woman. The
couple attended several times and Mr Rawsthorn decided to give the pair a job.

He took them on as cleaners at his home in the grounds of a Grade II listed
mansion near Burnley. He gave them a key to the 6350,000 cottage and McConnell
and the woman would arrive and clean the property.

But on November 12, the solicitor came home from work and found his beloved
saxophones were missing.

McConnell was arrested and it emerged he had convictions for robbery, theft,
burglary and handling stolen goods. The court was told he was extremely
remorseful over taking Mr Rawsthorn's property. Mr Rawsthorn was able to get his
saxophones back but remains 64,825 out of pocket.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I'm to blame, says lawyer robbed by Big Issue seller he employed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 124 words


A Christian lawyer had his home plundered by a Big Issue seller after he took
pity on him and gave him a job and a house key.

Richard Rawsthorn, 59, employed James McConnell, 35, as a cleaner at his cottage
in the grounds of Barcroft Hall, a manor house in Cliviger, Lancs.

In November, the drug addict stole three saxophones, a trumpet, two digital
cameras and two computers worth a total of £6,000. McConnell, of Hulme,
Manchester, was jailed for nine months at Burnley Crown Court after admitting
theft.

Mr Rawsthorn, a partner at Lawson Coppock and Hart in Manchester and a former
UKIP parliamentary candidate, said: "I regard myself as the author of my own
misfortunes. If I had known more about addiction I would never have given him
the key."

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Forsyth is taking out his anger on the wrong people;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 133 words


For Frederick Forsyth to call patriots 'stupid' for voting UKIP is both unfair
and I suspect a little mischievous ("UKIP put eU fanatics into government", May
14).

the simple fact is that even if a tory government had been elected Britain would
still have remained in the hands of eU fanatics.

the party is full of people with no apparent conscience or care for their
country or its sovereignty, such has been the conservatives' commitment to 'the
great misadventure' since edward Heath wilfully deceived the electorate and
signed up to the common Market early in the Seventies. Has any subsequent tory
government ever had the guts to dissociate itself from that frightful deceit?
no.

come on, Freddie, we're all a bit peeved but you're taking it out on the wrong
lot.

Bruce Robertson, Cardinham, Cornwall

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

Leading article: House of Commons: Mr Bercow and the new politics

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 446 words


So much has already changed in British politics over the past month that it is
easy to forget how much still remains to be done. Yet the members of the new
House of Commons who gather to elect a new Speaker today should not deceive
themselves. A hung parliament, Britain's first coalition in living memory and
226 new faces in the Commons are large changes. But public dissatisfaction with
our politics runs deeper and wider than such things. It extends to the manner in
which MPs are paid, the way they behave, the kind of jobs they do, and the role
which parliament plays within public life.

Much has been done in some of these fields, especially expenses. But the work is
not complete in any of them. Unless the new Commons grasps that urgent reform
remains to be undertaken at the very start of the 2010 parliament, there is a
danger that, once the novelty of the new government and parliament have worn
off, many of the old problems will gradually reassert themselves.

One practical way that MPs can show they understand this danger is by
re-electing John Bercow as Speaker today. Mr Bercow certainly has his critics,
especially on what we must get used to calling the government benches. He owed
his choice as Speaker in 2009 mainly to Labour votes. Many Tories would have
been quietly, and not so quietly, pleased if he had been ousted by Ukip's Nigel
Farage on 6 May. A few still want to stop him taking the chair. But this would
send a terrible message. It would look as if petty partisanship was back in
charge at Westminster on day one and that the voters counted for nothing. So,
re-elect Mr Bercow.

That, though, is just the start. Mr Bercow and the new Commons leader, Sir
George Young, must ensure that the coalition pledge to strengthen backbench
control over business and committees is carried through in full as soon as the
Commons restarts. But these "Wright committee" powers should be properly
enshrined too, as Mr Bercow said in a speech in March. That speech contained a
menu of suggestions for making parliament more responsive, reasoned and
transparent as well as more independent of the executive - September sittings,
new standing orders, greater centrality for private members' legislation, longer
and more frequent periods of oral questions, the opportunity for MPs to question
ministers from the Lords. Even before the inevitable changes to prime minister's
questions entailed by the coalition, Mr Bercow also wanted more time at PMQs for
backbenchers. The next few weeks are the biggest and best window of opportunity
that this parliament will ever have to show it can do politics differently and
better than the old one. MPs should seize the hour.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 18, 2010 Tuesday

Feature - A massive win for the anti-fascists

BYLINE: Sabby Dhalu

LENGTH: 822 words


For the first time since its electoral rise began in 2001, the British National
Party (BNP) suffered major defeats at the 2010 general and local elections.

Overall nationally the BNP was squeezed by the rise in voter turnout,
particularly in the local elections where for the first time in many years they
coincided with the general election.

In areas such as Barking, Stoke and Dudley, the BNP was pushed back and its vote
share reduced. It lost a total of 27 councillors and only two BNP councillors
standing for re-election - one in Bradford and one in Pendle - held their seats.
The party made no additional gains.

Its biggest setback was in the borough of Barking & Dagenham where all 12 BNP
councillors were overwhelmingly defeated and Labour took all 51 seats - a major
victory to the anti-fascist movement.

The campaign in the Barking constituency has important lessons for anti-fascists
and the labour movement. This campaign showed that it is possible to defeat the
BNP even in areas where it is strong.

In the borough of Barking & Dagenham the big fight against the BNP had to be
fought in the Barking constituency as that is where the BNP was strongest.
Eleven out of 12 BNP councillors were in wards in Barking.

Therefore it is necessary to understand how the BNP was defeated in Barking. Not
only did the BNP vote share reduce, but Labour's increased significantly.

Nick Griffin stood for the BNP, as he did in 2005, and its vote reduced by 1.7
per cent (from 16.3 per cent to 14.6 per cent).

Labour candidate Margaret Hodge's vote increased by 4.7 per cent (from 49.6 per
cent in 2005 to 54.3 per cent in 2010) and she doubled her majority.

Across the country, increasing numbers of constituencies are having to fight the
BNP and need to know what is effective at holding down the fascist vote while
increasing Labour's.

For example, in the neighbouring constituency Dagenham & Rainham, the BNP vote
increased by 6.8 per cent (from 4.4 per cent to 11.2 per cent).

The Barking Labour Party vigorously exposed and challenged the BNP in its
literature and explained why people needed to vote. The party clearly rejected
the racism of the BNP by fielding a team of candidates in the local elections
that reflected the diversity of Barking, including several African, Muslim and
Sikh candidates.

These communities understood the BNP threat and voted to stop the BNP. The local
Labour Party also worked extremely hard in canvassing and obtaining accurate
voter ID.

Barking Labour Party also linked up those outside the party that wanted to
assist the campaign against the BNP, such as Unite Against Fascism (UAF).

It mobilised its supporters for months to complement the Labour campaign,
identifying anti-BNP voters through canvassing and distributing leaflets across
the borough.

The UAF produced literature countering the so-called "Africans for Essex "
racist myth which the BNP has used as its cutting edge campaign in the borough
when it gained councillors in 2006. This myth falsely claimed that Africans were
given grants to move to the borough.

Anti-fascists working along side Labour were key to mobilising the increased
anti-BNP vote.

As Hodge commented: "Unite Against Fascism was part of the winning strategy in
Barking which focused on those areas where the BNP were strongest.

"Our emphatic victory on 6 May in the local and general elections is a
reflection of the support we received from Unite Against Fascism who made a
vital contribution to the campaign to drive the BNP out of Barking.

"UAF put in months of work that began before the elections. This helped to
mobilise to beat the BNP and increase voter turnout which made such a difference
in reducing the BNP's vote."

In Stoke UAF worked closely with the North Staffordshire Campaign Against Racism
and Fascism. The former leader of the BNP group Alby Walker's public split from
the BNP, saying that a "vein of Holocaust denial" runs through the party,
clearly had an impact in the area.

Last year's Love Music Hate Racism carnival helped to engage a new layer of
people into UAF and hundreds of people were mobilised to campaign in Stoke.

In both Stoke and Dudley, campaigning with the Muslim community against the BNP
and English Defence League's attempts to spread lies and stir up Islamophobia
around proposals to construct new mosques, were also effective in opposing the
BNP's hatred and mobilising Muslim communities to vote against the BNP.

Nationally, in the general election, the BNP increased its votes to over half a
million - more than doubling its vote share from 0.7 per cent in 2005 to 1.9 per
cent in 2010.

As a result it doubled its number of saved deposits, from 34 in 2005 to 72 in
2010, and ranked nationally as the fifth-highest level of support, behind Ukip
but ahead of the Green Party.

This indicates that the BNP remains a threat, so lessons of successful campaigns
against the BNP must be learned.

- Sabby Dhalu is Unite Against Fascism joint secretary.

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Day Five of the new Government;
Cameron at No10

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 570 words


Dance troupe loses cash in aid cuts

Funding of £146,000 for a Brazilian dance troupe in London was cancelled
yesterday after the Government pledged to limit aid spending to helping the
needy in the Third World. Andrew Mitchell, Secretary of State for International
Development, scrapped five schemes, saving more than £500,000, and froze all
other projects based in Britain, worth a combined total of more than £6 million,
pending review.

Racy tale of Home Secretary's aide

A key political aide to the Home Secretary was the inspiration for one of the
main characters in a racy novel set among the horse riding set. Annabel
Roycroft,31, nicknamed Bee, stars in the book, In The Pink, and is described as
a "blonde, 34-22-32" woman whose "face and figure cast an infallible spell over
the opposite sex". It was written by her sister, Molly Watson, 34, a former
journalist, who is the model for the other central character.

Farage: I was wrong to fight Speaker

Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader, has conceded it was a "miscalculation" to
run against the Speaker, John Bercow, in Buckingham in the General Election. Mr
Farage said: "I wasn't to know just how popular John Bercow was with his
constituents in Buckingham." Nadine Dorries, a Conservative MP, called yesterday
for Mr Bercow to be replaced as Speaker because Parliament needs to be "swept
with a new broom throughout".

MP knife attack charge

Roshonara Choudhary, 321- year-old unemployed woman, will appear in court today
charged with the attempted murder of Stephen Timms, a Labour MP. He was stabbed
twice in the stomach during a constituency surgery in east London on Friday, and
is recovering in hospital.

Tories to force vote on Lisbon Treaty

Conservative Euroscepticsare planning an attempt to force a referendum on the
European Union's Lisbon Treaty within the next few months, it was disclosed
yesterday. Douglas Carswell, a Tory MP, said that he and colleagues are planning
to take advantage of a minor technical change to the treaty to trigger a public
vote. The vote would provide an early test of the unity of the Conservative
coalition with the strongly pro-European Liberal Democrats.

Minister attacks 'rubbish' PGCEs

Nick Gibb, the Schools Minister, has guestioned the value of postgraduate
certificates in education (PGCEs) from "rubbish" universities, saying he would
rather have ungualified graduates from Oxford or Cambridge teaching in schools.
The Conservative reportedly made the comment -said to have infuriated teaching
unions -to officials on Friday. Mr Gibb was educated at a grammar school in Kent
before reading law at Durham.

No compromise on Trident, says Fox

Dr Liam Fox, the Defence Secretary, has warned his Liberal Democrat coalition
partners that there will be no compromise over the renewal of Trident. Under the
terms of the coalition, the Tories agreed the Liberal Democrats could "make the
case for alternatives to Trident". Speaking on the BBC's World at One, Mr Fox,
said: "I am very relaxed about explaining to our Liberal Democrat colleagues
that the system is actually the best value for money."

Peerage for Prescott

John Prescott and Sue Nye, the aide Gordon Brown wrongly blamed for his "bigot"
gaffe, are in line for peerages in the former Prime Minister's dissolution
honours list. Former ministers Ruth Kelly and Des Browne are also expected to be
ennobled, as is Anna Healey, wife of Labour leadership contender, Jon Cruddas.

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Fewer voted for Greens than for BNP and UKIP;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 109 words


One unhappy by-product of the election, to counter-balance the joy of seeing
george galloway ejected, is that the extremist greens now have an MP, albeit in
a flaky seat in Brighton.

This has been blessed by selfproclaimed "progressives" and I predict that this
MP will now become a must-have for every BBC news and current affairs programme
and the subject of uncritical articles in the Leftleaning Press.

So it is worth pointing out that nationwide the greens polled just over 228,000
votes compared with more than 500,000 for the BnP and almost a million for UKIP.
an uncomfortable truth those calling for PR might like to bear in mind.

MC Harrigan, Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Gloves off as political allies fight for Thirsk

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 747 words


FORGET THE romance in the rose garden. Those wishing to see what the new
politics looks like in Britain should tune in to the rumble in Ryedale instead.
For here, in this most bucolic of North Yorkshire seats, with its honeystone
villages and rolling hills, the gloves are well and truly off and the new order
looks and feels remarkably similar to the visceral politics of old.

Thirsk and Malton will provide the first electoral test for the
Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition on 27 May, voters having been denied
their chance last week because of the sudden death of the UKIP candidate.

The odds-on favourite to win is Conservative Anne McIntosh, whose notional
majority of 15,000 looks like furthering a tradition of Tory representation in
these parts which has continued, with just a single, brief interruption, since
the 19th century.

But any notion of the Westminster love-in being extended to the northern shires
is proving fanciful and insiders say the outbreak of peace at national level
has, if anything, fuelled unprecedented levels of antagonism between the parties
of the new coalition.

Liberal Democrat candidate Howard Keal, who was out pressing the flesh in the
sunshine in Malton's handsome Georgian market square yesterday, said he had no
qualms at waging a full-on fight against his Tory rival. He was happy to point
out that Miss McIntosh was forced to repay nearly £1,000 for gardening expenses
during her last term in Westminister, when she represented neighbouring Vale of
York, and he has made an electoral pledge to attend to all his own horticulture
needs if he wins.

"This is a gloves-off fight all the way. I have been dismayed at some of the
tactics. One of the hand grenades that has been lobbed at us was the euro, and
road pricing, which I was alleged to support. I have never mentioned the euro,
which won't be on the table for at least five years. It is just a smear tactic
that is pretty unworthy. It is a completely erroneous claim about me being made
by the Tories," he said.

Mr Keal is urging Labour voters to act tactically to help him stop Miss McIntosh
and insists the message is being received well on the doorstep.

"For us, going into coalition is a huge success and is absolutely to be
welcomed. If the Tories had been left to their own devices they would have
lurched to the right and we would have had the inheritance tax and other
unpalatable policies coming to fruition," he said.

Miss McIntosh was also out campaigning yesterday, taking her message to
Helmsley, on the edge of the North York Moors National Park. A veteran of 13
years at Westminster and a decade as an MEP, she is more than happy to fight
fire with fire. She is urging her opponent to come clean over his and his wife's
most recent expenses, paid to them as local councillors, which she says remain
unpublished.

"I have nothing to hide. My expenses are a matter of record. They are all
published online. But they won't publish theirs until June," she said.

"I had to repay the same amount as Nick Clegg. So if he is criticising me he is
criticising his own leader," she added. "I feel a bit disappointed that he is
besmirching my character with things that are not true," she said.

Miss McIntosh also takes issue that her Liberal Democrat opponent does not drive
- something she says is vital in a rural constituency. "We are in the ascendency
and the Lib Dem vote is collapsing across North Yorkshire. The feedback I am
getting across the constituency is very positive."

Labour candidate Jonathan Roberts is keen to highlight the difficult positions
faced by his two main rivals, though he says he wants the coalition to succeed.

But he added: "The Liberal Democrats cannot get away from the fact that a vote
for them is a vote to prop up the Conservative government. I am saying to
Liberal Democrat supporters that while we might not agree on everything our core
values are the same."

He added: "Whatever Nick Clegg and David Cameron might do in Downing Street, out
here in the shires their supporters have spent their entire lives campaigning
against each other because they fundamentally dislike each other's values."

UKIP candidate Toby Horton was also happy to make mischief. "I am looking
forward to seeing Howard Keal and Anne McIntosh standing side by side at the
count. I think there will be a lot of teasing between then and now. The sight of
David Cameron and Nick Clegg together in Downing Street might be very beautiful
and moving but it won't play in Yorkshire."

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 17, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Charles Kennedy, coalitions and conscience;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 499 words


Sir, Three cheers for the former Lib Dem party leader Mr Charles Kennedy, and
for democracy! Yet again an experienced politician is showing the country how
things should be done while simultaneously salving his political conscience.

When the country faces almost unprecedented challenges, what we need are
politicians who have the courage to take the tough decisions. This is the mark
of political maturity. How many Lib Dem MPs made the tough decision to vote in
favour of a coalition with the Conservatives in the national interest to allow
Mr Kennedy the luxury of abstaining ? What cost to the country the resultant
uncertainty if they had all abstained? Perhaps it takes the tanks of some
foreign power parked in Parliament Square or Greek-style riots around the
country for some politicians to recognise that there are more pressing issues
than the exercise of political posturing. michael franklin London N2 Sir, We are
continually entreated by various government spokesmen that the current coalition
is what the electorate voted for. Let's be clear: the electorate did not vote
for this "blended" government.

I voted Lib Dem and have done so for the past three elections. However, I would
not have voted Lib Dem had I known that this would bring the Conservatives into
government. Where has my vote gone in all of this? I will never vote Lib Dem
again. henry page Newhaven, East Sussex Sir, As the dust settles on the new
Government, the Conservative and Lib Dem candidates in my constituency of Thirsk
and Malton are slugging it out ahead of our vote on May 27 (as a result of the
death of the UKIP candidate). Perhaps someone should tell them it's all over and
what has happened.

My plan to vote tactically for the Lib Dems to keep out the Tories has been
shelved. Instead I am voting for the Labour candidate, tactically. dr stuart
lowe Tollerton, York Sir, Your leading article ("Enduring Love", May 15)
asserts, without producing the evidence, that "millions of people were
undecided" how to vote up to the last moment. I think it is much more likely
that millions refused to reveal their voting intentions. This is borne out by
the fact that the exit polls reflected so accurately earlier research and the
ultimate outcome. What you interpret as indecision was a reluctance to admit to
letting the briefly fashionable Lib Dem bandwagon pass without getting on it.
But in the end the Clegg bubble burst and the two-party system emerged
unscathed. victor ross London NW8 Sir, We all know that in the course of the
election and the subsequent negotiations statements will have been made by all
the participants to promote their cause ("Revealed: Cable's last ditch calls to
Brown", May 15). No alternative government would have been capable of running
the country though the dark days ahead and for a minority of discontents on the
Right of the Tories and the Left of the Liberal Democrats to scuttle the
Government and country for party interests is disgraceful.

nick evelegh Cranbrook, Kent

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Charles Kennedy, right, with Nick Clegg during the Lib Dem election
campaign

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                  May 16, 2010
                                 First Edition

A good guy becomes sport minister but Cameron misses trick;
Inside Lines

BYLINE: Alan Hubbard

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 543 words


David Cameron now resides in his shared accommodation in Downing Street on an
Obama-like ticket of "change". But we have to ask if sport has been somewhat
short-changed? The new PM has missed a trick by again lumping sport together
with media and culture under the roof of the Department for Culture, Media and
Sport. Here was a perfect opportunity to give sport, which he has acknowledged
as being important to society, health and the economy, and currently with the
added governance of the Olympics, its own full-time ministry. We welcome the
appointment of Hugh Robertson as the new sports and Olympic minister - he's one
of the good guys in politics and has a grasp of what the job is about after five
years robustly shadowing two Labour sports ministers.

But he has to report to the DCMS overlord, Jeremy Hunt, a nice enough chap whose
only known affinity with athleticism is a spot of lambada dancing. Cameron
should have been bold enough to change the system and give sport what it
deserves - a ministry of its own. Chelsea fan Robertson, 47, was at yesterday's
FA Cup final alongside his new boss, who elected to cheer for Portsmouth. A club
cricketer and hockey player, Robertson was also planning to stay up for the Amir
Khan fight and will watch today's T20 final between England and Australia. He
will need such stamina with tough calls to make on funding and Olympic legacy.

Punching for politics

Boxing's political contenders had different results in their elections. The
multi-world champion Manny Pacquiao won by a landslide to get a Congressional
seat in the Philippines. Here, the promoter Frank Maloney took a count in
Barking - one of 1,300. That figure put Ukip's man in fifth place, behind the
BNP's Nick Griffin but above the Loony Party. Maloney may have lost his deposit,
but not his enthusiasm. "I learned a lot and I'll be back," he vows. But not in
Barking.

Doctor's kick start

Most doctors would hardly prescribe a kick in the teeth as a recipe for good
health. But Dr Fui Mee Quek, a female GP with a practice in Sutton, Surrey, not
only recommends Thai boxing but promotes it in her role as operations chief of
the MSA Muay Thai Premier League, which will be showcased at London's ExCel on
Saturday week with a world-class bill featuring top Thai pros against the best
of British. Muay Thai (pictured below) may sound like something with noodles
from your local takeaway but it is an ancient martial art utilising knees, feet
and elbows. So how come a medico advocates such violent behaviour? Dr Quek, a
45-year-old mother of three, says: "Some of my fellow doctors may raise an
eyebrow but I believe it is a great way to get bodies working properly in the
gym and it is a beautiful sport to watch. Compared to boxing and MMA there are
fewer injuries and you can score well without hitting the head."

London's mascot mystery

London 2012's best-kept secret - apart from how much it will cost - will be
revealed on Wednesday, when we will know the name and design of the Olympic
mascot. There have been no leaks from HQ and nothing could be prised from the
lips of Seb Coe and Co last week, not even if it is animal, vegetable or
mineral. Though our suggestion of Percy the Pigeon at least raised a smile.

insidelines@ independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 16, 2010

HOW LONG WILL THE COALITION LAST?: JUNE/JULY 2010 OCTOBER 2010 FEBRUARY 2011
APRIL 2011: JUNE/JULY 2010 OCTOBER 2010 JULY 2011 AUGUST 2011 MARCH 2012:
JUNE/JULY 2010 OCTOBER 2010 APRIL 2011 MAY 2012 2013 APRIL 2014

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1176 words


Despite disquiet among Lib Dem grandees such as Paddy Ashdown, the Con-Lib
honeymoon lasts throughout a sunny June. England progress to the semi-finals of
the World Cup. The Cleggs join the Camerons at Chequers, where Nick beats David
6-4, 6-2 at tennis. It is announced that chancellor George Osborne's emergency
budget will be delivered to the Commons on 28 June.

Two days before the budget, it is reported that Vince Cable, the business
secretary, is deeply unhappy with plans to exclude private equity funds from an
increase in capital gains tax. A delay to the timetable for raising the income
tax threshold (another Lib Dem pledge) and a VAT rise also causes outrage. As
Osborne addresses the Commons, gleeful Labour MPs shout: "What does Vince
think?" Some Lib Dem backbenchers join in.

England lose the World Cup

semi-final.

Osborne's budget details spending cuts of up to 20% to be made across the board
in Westminster departments. Public sector strikes loom. David Laws, the Lib Dem
chief secretary to the Treasury, backs the plans and is booed at the annual Lib
Dem conference.

Tory eurosceptics hit the roof as Clegg insists that the coalition agrees to
Britain's participation in the EU bailout of Italy, the latest country to have
become a target for predatory markets. On holiday in her native Spain, Miriam
Gonzalez Durantez, Clegg's wife, is surreptitiously taped condemning the
draconian immigration cap proposed by home secretary Theresa May. With
unemployment at three million, several Lib Dem MPs and thousands of activists
join a people's march for jobs which is addressed outside Westminster by Vince
Cable, who has just resigned from the government.

It is officially confirmed that Britain is now in a double-dip recession.
Unified and resurgent under the new leadership of David Miliband, Labour forces
a vote of no confidence which is backed by 21 Lib Dem MPs, all sitting in Labour
marginals, and 62 eurosceptic Tories who, in the wake of the latest crisis, are
demanding a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU. The magic figure of
55% in favour of dissolving parliament is reached. A new general election is
called for May.

The coalition has lasted. . . 11 months

The Clameroonian honeymoon

survives Osborne's tough emergency budget, which is hailed by the markets and
the media as the only possible response to new pessimistic forecasts for
Britain's future economic growth.

Cameron and Clegg forgo summer holidays abroad, given the straitened
circumstances of many voters.

With the help of their famously severe manager, Fabio Capello,

England reach the World Cup final. The coalition's poll ratings soar. "Forget
Cool Britannia", reads a cover story in Time magazine. "Voters across the pond
have fallen in love with Cruel

Britannia".

The autumn implosion of the Portuguese economy and riots across southern Europe
form the sobering backdrop when parliament reassembles. No one is

surprised when VAT rates are pushed up to 21% and, on the advice of the Lib
Dems, NHS spending is no longer ringfenced from cuts.

In party conference season David Cameron faces down rebels from the Tory right
and the Lib Dem left, telling his critics: "This is no time for pet causes and
eccentric obsessions. The nation's economic wellbeing depends on us pulling
together."

During the summer there is a sudden souring of the atmosphere. Papers left by
Ken Clarke in a country pub reveal that Lord Ashcroft is secretly funding a
series of front organisations opposing electoral reform. Nick Clegg denounces an
act of "naked betrayal".

Labour, now led by David Miliband, capitalises on the dissatisfaction in Lib Dem
ranks. Miliband's number two, Jon Cruddas, a supporter of electoral reform,
calls for a Lib-Lab voter alliance to force through AV in the referendum planned
for October 2011. To the dismay of Tory backbenchers, the country votes for the
alternative vote system. "Now for full proportional representation," says
Cruddas, "but only if Lib Dems leave the coalition." Chris Huhne does and 10 Lib
Dem MPs follow.

After months of fallout from the electoral reform row, the coalition falls apart
as a result of a mildly funny joke. At a private meeting in his Sheffield
constituency Nick Clegg asks a local Lib Dem activist: "What have AV and IDS got
in common? You can't get rid of one without adopting the other!" The
conversation is leaked. Allies of Iain Duncan-Smith call for the deputy prime
minister's resignation and a vote of no confidence in the government is
triggered by Labour. The coalition breaks down as Lib Dems and the Tory right
vote in favour.

The coalition has lasted. . .

22 months

FORGET

COOL

BRITANNIA

A barbecue summer as Wayne Rooney's World Cup goals give England the World Cup
for the first time since 1966. The

Sun declares a national state of

"ClameRoomania".

At Chequers, the press pack are invited to witness a celebratory Clegg-Cameron
tennis match. Cameron takes the first set 7-5. Clegg wins the second 7-6. In the
spirit of the "new politics" there is no deciding set. A breathless Paris Match
comments: "This is the most moving relationship between two English public
schoolboys since Charles Ryder met Sebastian Flyte in Waugh's Brideshead
Revisited."

After two months of ferocious internecine warfare, Labour elects Ed Balls as its
new leader. David Miliband refuses a shadow ministerial role. Balls makes clear
Labour will not support electoral reform in the AV referendum planned for May
2012. Many of his MPs say they will recommend a vote in favour anyway.

By the autumn, George Osborne has announced £ 60bn of spending cuts, but the
headlines are dominated by business secretary Vince Cable's all-out assault on
bank bonuses. In another popular move, the retail and investment activities of
banks are broken up.

A winter of cuts has been overshadowed by events in the eurozone. Germany is on
the brink of withdrawing from the euro after financing successive bailouts of
Greece, Portugal, Spain and Italy. "Where is our George Osborne?" pleads the
Bild tabloid.

In an act hailed as "political genius" Cameron campaigns in favour of AV,
leading to an exodus of Tory backwoodsmen to Ukip, but locking in those Lib Dems
unhappy with cuts and a new immigration cap. AV is passed. "I want to reach out
to those Labour people who voted with us," says Cameron. "I agree with Dave,"
jokes Clegg.

JANUARY 2013

Economic figures for the final quarter of 2012 show a growth rate of 3%.
Unemployment, which peaked at

3.2 million, falls.

OCTOBER 2013

Barack Obama states that the "strong leadership' shown by

William Hague in negotiations with Iran was key in persuading Mahmoud
Ahmadinejad to give up Tehran's nuclear programme.

As strong economic growth continues, 92 Labour MPs defect to the Lib Dems, among
them David Miliband. "The left should not be a ghetto," he says. "There has been
a realignment in British politics. There is no longer a centre-left or a
centre-right. There is only the centre." John Prescott punches the television in
the Red Lion and breaks two fingers.

7 May 2015: Election day

The coalition has lasted. . .

5 years


LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 16, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The third person in Dave and Nick's 'marriage'

BYLINE: Julia Hartley- Brewer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 895 words


WITH THE dust still settling on the tory-Lib Dem coalition deal, one enormous
fault line remains at the heart of the new government: europe. Britain's uneasy
relationship with the eU will provide the most dangerous flashpoints for discord
between the eurosceptic Conservatives and the europhile Lib Dems.

While David Cameron is instinctively eurosceptic, Nick Clegg is one of the most
europhile politicians in Britain, with a CV listing years working in Brussels.

Much has been made of Mr Clegg's accusation in one of the leaders' debates that
tory MePs in the european Parliament had allied themselves with extreme
right-wing MePs from other member states and were "in bed with a bunch of
nutters, anti-Semites and homophobes".

In fact, this is just the tip of the iceberg of the vast differences that
separate the two parties on europe. Mr Cameron, in seeking to reach a compromise
with the Lib Dems, has risked alienating large sections of his party. For many
tory eurosceptics, his credentials are already in question thanks to his refusal
to hold a referendum on the Lisbon treaty. Many view this as a betrayal.

The decision is also blamed by eurosceptics for the party's failure to win an
overall majority, because UKiP candidates are believed to have cost the
Conservatives 20 seats on May 6. the other big threat to the coalition is the
parties' agreement that there should be "no further transfer of sovereignty or
powers over the course of the next Parliament".

That sounds all well and good but who is to decide what is significant enough
for the electorate to be given its say? the eU is a constantly evolving beast
and the Commission is already looking at further integration of member states'
economies following the Greek economic tragedy that has cost eurozone countries
(and Britain) billions in the bail-out.

EU PRESIDENT herman van rompuy is leading a task force to strengthen the
economic governance of all 27 member states, who will be asked to submit their
national budgets to Brussels for "peer review" to ensure that governments never
again put the stability of the euro at risk through profligate public spending
and excessive debt.

Initially, this measure is aimed only at eurozone states but, if accepted, will
inevitably have an effect on Britain and could even mean the Chancellor having
to submit his Budget to the eU before it can be approved by Parliament.

Obviously, Mr Cameron would not agree to such a change under any new treaty but
Brussels has a long history of bringing in major changes through incremental
moves using "back-door" procedures within existing treaties. Further, while Mr
Cameron might be opposed, Mr Clegg might have a different definition of what
constitutes a "transfer of powers".

Both men are also committed, through their coalition agreement, to imposing a
"referendum lock" on all future treaty changes that transfer further areas of
power or competence away from Westminster but other member states, including
Germany, are already seeking to change existing treaties to tighten up economic
and monetary rules for members of the eurozone, as well as non-eurozone
countries such as Britain.

The question of Britain joining the euro is, thankfully, unlikely to raise its
ugly head in this parliament but the effects of the euro bail-outs for Greece
and other states will remain on the agenda for years.

That said, our Government is likely to be asked to contribute more to the
bail-out package, placing pressure on Mr Cameron to get a good deal from
Brussels.

Another area of dispute could be the attempt to "limit the application" of the
Working time Directive if the eU goes ahead with proposals to end our opt-out
from the eU's 48-hour working week. Such a move would fuel demands from tory
backbenchers for a blanket opt-out from eU social policy, something which would
be strongly resisted by Lib Dems.

Even if Mr Cameron stands firm on his agreement with the Lib Dems, he will find
his hands tied in dealing with other key areas of reform in Britain. it will,
for instance, be impossible to make serious inroads on the welfare dependency
culture unless the Government ensures that, when the economy recovers, new jobs
go to our unemployed rather than to new arrivals from eastern europe.

The Government's lack of power, under eU laws, to control our borders and limit
immigration, already means that the unrelenting pressure on schools, the NhS,
transport and housing will continue to grow at a time when funding for those
services is likely to be cut but it is perhaps in the arenas of justice and home
affairs where the really dirty battles will be fought.

Under the coalition deal, the Government has agreed to consider forthcoming
legislation "on a case-by-case basis".

The tories have dropped their pledge for a formal opt-out in justice and home
affairs but under provisions in the Lisbon treaty, over the next five years
Britain will be able to decide whether it wants to remain a part of most eU
justice and policing measures already in force.

If Mr Cameron decides to opt out, a move many in his party would applaud, most
eU justice and policing laws will no longer apply here.

If he opts in, the european Court of Justice will have the final say on large
swathes of British law for the first time in a major transfer of power to
european courts.

'Europe is one of the most dangerous flashpoints between the two parties'

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONFLICT: Greek demonstrators burn an EU flag in Athens

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 16, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Frisky Alan is on the prowl...;
TELEVISION

BYLINE: David Stephenson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 60

LENGTH: 728 words


FINALLY it's spring. We only know this because Alan Titchmarsh told us so. The
Seasons with Alan Titchmarsh (Sunday, ITV1) was just what I needed on Sunday
night, amid (at that stage) the unfolding political "bromance" in Downing
Street.

Calming, restful and picturepostcard, this delightful new series spans four
episodes. I can only assume this because, given the rather shy spring that we
are witnessing, there may well be a case for ditching it altogether and moving
straight to summer.

Sunday Express gardening expert Titchmarsh, as much a face of ITV now as either
Simon Cowell or Ant and Dec, communicates to a TV audience like the rest of us
make a cup of tea; it's just so easy for him. For this show, he donned a leather
jacket (a bit too Lovejoy for my liking) and ambled up a hillside to tell us
that spring was almost here.

Sixty minutes later, he'd shed the jacket and summer had arrived. The miracles
of television, eh? Or the "wonders of nature", as Titchmarsh put it. He was full
of information. Apparently, spring "travels from south to north at walking
pace". Considering the traffic, no wonder it never arrives.

Then he went "all ITV" on us, ie a little bit too excitable. Said Alan: "What
makes animals, including us, a bit frisky at this time of year?" Can't wait for
this one. For many, recalling Lovejoy can do the trick. It was down to the
sunshine levels which, according to Titchmarsh, increase during spring. This
makes us shed our clothes too. Does it? I thought it was because I'd left the
heating on...

Revealingly, he told me this while sitting in a cosy conservatory. He went on:
"Love, well, sex is most definitely in the air." And there I was thinking it was
cherry blossom. "Wildlife," he continued, "are on the prowl for a mate."

Then, unexpectedly, a party political message from Titchmarsh, if a little late.
He revealed that 16million birds migrate to Britain during the spring. Blimey!
This includes undesirable aliens from northern Africa such as the osprey. Has
anybody told UKIP? What does this say about our awful border controls?

Control was the order of the day in wormwood Scrubs (ITV1, Sunday), quite the
scariest programme I have seen in some time. I'm assured this was not a drama
and, from what I'm told, Wormwood Scrubs is definitely in Britain. I'm sorry but
what a bunch of animals. If you had a liberal position on crime and punishment
before this show, welcome to the real world. This two-part documentary focuses
on this well-known London prison, which does its best to house a bunch of
psychopaths and sociopaths.

Clichés flooded to mind: inmates and asylum, throw away the key. In short, the
prisoners were revolting. I expected to draw on the delights of Porridge but
this situation was beyond comedy.

OK, we probably saw the worst of them but my overriding thought was, why are
there so few warders looking after them? In one wing of 300 inmates, there were
only a dozen or so prison officers. This meant that, when trouble kicked off,
the rest of the wing was left mostly unattended.

The prison, as you can imagine, was awash with drugs, passed to them by visitors
who also handed over mobile phones. Why are visitors not put behind glass? This
would stop the trade in drugs completely. Still, that would be common sense,
which, as we know, is in constant short supply.

One successful and one unsuccessful suicide later, I switched off, exhausted. Is
it better not to know?

THERE was another strong episode of Lewis (ITV1, Sunday) and, after 20 years of
watching Morse/Lewis, it finally dawned on me: this is really a period detective
drama, with college porters and dippy academics, in a 15th-century setting. More
of the same, please.

Finally, a message to David Dimbleby (election Special, BBC1, Tuesday):
congratulations on a fine campaign. If television were an election, we would all
vote for you. If it were an election based on proportional representation, we
would then distribute our preferences to Jon Sopel.

I'm sure if Dimbleby hadn't been there during the changing of the guard after
Brown resigned, constitutional convention would not have been adhered to, and
who knows what would have happened. For that, we salute you, Dimbleby.

You may now hibernate for five years but also expect a rude awakening.

QUOTE OF THE WEEK

"No one wants to deal with an ugly person"

ZOE PLUMMER Junior Apprentice (BBc1, wednesday)

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAY OF SUnShine: Alan Titchmarsh and his series Seasons with...

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 16, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Challenge to oust Speaker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 253 words


A CAMPAIGN has been launched among MPs to oust Commons Speaker John Bercow, it
was revealed last night.

Conservative MP Nadine Dorries is pushing for his removal and called for him to
be replaced with a more "authoritative" figure.

Former Liberal Democrat leader Sir Menzies Campbell has proved a popular choice
for the next Speaker among MPs since the coalition was formed.

It emerged last night that several Tory MPs are set to oppose the re-election of
Mr Bercow when Parliament reconvenes on Tuesday. Ms Dorries said the move to axe
him as Speaker comes as Britain faces a "new political age".

She told a Sunday newspaper: "There will be some very difficult times in the
Commons over the next five years and the role of Speaker will be imperative,
indeed, crucial.

"In the forthcoming days of the coalition he will need to be totally impartial
and, unfortunately, this is not something the existing Speaker has ever managed
to achieve."

Mr Bercow was elected into the role last June, after Labour's Michael Martin had
been forced to step down over his handling of the MPs' expenses scandal.

Ms Dorries added that Mr Bercow's wife Sally enraged many Tories by standing for
Labour in the recent council elections.

It is thought that Christopher Chope, Conservative MP for Christchurch, is among
those likely to object to him being re-elected.

Mr Bercow faced a challenge for his constituency of Buckingham in the general
election from former UKIP leader Nigel Farage. The Euro MP came third with 8,410
votes to Mr Bercow's 22,860.

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 16, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Gone for ever, the rebel yell of the Lib Dems;
The third party could pay a high price for Tory deal, write Colin Rallings and
Michael Thrasher

BYLINE: Colin Rallings; Michael Thrasher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 826 words


The Liberal Democrats risk exchanging five years in government for the long-term
ruination of their party as a national force. It is a price that many party
activists far from the centre of power will consider too high.

Over recent decades the party's strategy has been built on offering themselves
as the alternative to whichever of the two "old" parties is strongest locally,
and encouraging tactical voting accordingly. This has produced some striking
successes. Parliamentary by-election gains have not always proved enduring, but
the oxygen of publicity has been invaluable. In 1994, the victory over the
Tories in Eastleigh - which Chris Huhne retained with an increased majority this
month - confirmed that the skids were under John Major's government. Sarah
Teather's victory against Labour in Brent East in 2003 reinforced public
opposition to the Iraq war and temporarily propelled the Lib Dems to equality
with their rivals in the polls.

Historically the Lib Dems have done better in such contests against unpopular
Tory rather than Labour governments.

Labour voters react to adversity by staying at home; Tories are more likely to
cast a protest, but without going the whole hog and supporting the traditional
enemy.

With the Lib Dems now in government, they can no longer pose as the natural home
for mid-term malcontents. Worse they may even be forgotten.

By-elections in this parliament are unlikely to see voters flooding their way:
opportunities instead being opened up to parties such as the Greens, the British
National party and UKIP which, with the exception of Caroline Lucas's result in
Brighton Pavilion, were squeezed 10 days ago by the televised debates and the
focus on the three main players.

Potentially even more serious for the Lib Dems is their fate in local
government. Until May 6 they had more councillors in England than Labour and
still enjoy overall control of more than two dozen councils.

Several of their greatest achievements have been in Labour heartland areas where
they successfully posed as a more caring, democratic and, yes, left-wing
alternative.

They had run Liverpool for more than a decade until this year, still have a
majority in Newcastle and Hull, and remain the largest party in Sheffield.

Local success in places where the Tories are the main opposition has also been
vital. The middle-class boroughs in southwest London retain significant Lib Dem
strength (though Richmond was lost to the Tories in the wake of Zac Goldsmith's
parliamentary triumph), as do many councils dotted across southern England.

This not only allows the Lib Dems to hold the reins of power, but gives the
message that they can be a significant electoral force. The constituencies they
held (or gained) at the election are a catalogue of places where local
government strength has been translated into parliamentary presence. Bristol,
Cambridge, Colchester and Lewes are all examples of building from the grass
roots up, as are new seats such as Burnley, Chippenham and Eastbourne.

The Lib Dems have also been willing to go into local coalition with their
rivals. The Tory-Lib Dem deals in Birmingham and Leeds received attention last
week, but they are allied with Labour in the Wirral, for example, and shared
power in Scotland in a Lib-Lab coalition for eight years until 2007.

Will Lib Dem councillors in Wirral now be obliged to sever their links with
Labour? Even if they are not, it places them in a difficult position when
reacting to governmentimposed spending cuts.

The truth is that most Lib Dem activists and at least a plurality of Lib Dem
voters see themselves as ideologically closer to Labour than the Tories. Early
data from the 2010 British Election Study, for example, shows Labour clearly
outscoring the Tories in this regard. Do these people now throw in their lot
with their second preference (Labour) as the sole means of defeating their least
favoured party (the Tories)? For both Lib Dem activists and voters their party
appears to have sacrificed its independence to the "wrong" rival. Its fortunes
for the next five years are bound with those of the largest party in the
government. The Lib Dems have lost their unique place as the third party in the
middle able to attract the disillusioned and the disaffected from both sides.
They will have little reason to look forward to next year's district council
elections if unpopular tax increases and spending cuts are implemented.

Any electoral backlash may have longer-term consequences.

Both Labour and the Tories have seen recently how a drastic reduction in their
number of councillors has an immediate impact on their ability to campaign on
the ground. Lib Dems rely more on grass roots activity than the others and could
suffer worst of all from the destruction of their local government base.

Nick Clegg and the parliamentary leadership have taken an incredible risk.

Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher are directors of the elections centre at
Plymouth University

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 16, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

HEART OF THE PARTNERSHIP'S POWER;
Gone forever, the Lib Dems as a rebel yel The third party could pay a high price
for Tory deal, write Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher

BYLINE: Colin Rallings; Michael Thrasher

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 2895 words


The Liberal Democrats risk exchanging five years in government for the long-term
ruination of their party as a national force. It is a price that many party
activists far from the centre of power will consider too high.

Over recent decades the party's strategy has been built on offering themselves
as the alternative to whichever of the two "old" parties is strongest locally,
and encouraging tactical voting accordingly.

This has produced some striking successes. Parliamentary by-election gains have
not always proved enduring, but the oxygen of publicity has been invaluable. In
1994, the victory over the Tories in Eastleigh - which Chris Huhne retained with
an increased majority this month - confirmed that the skids were under John
Major's government. Sarah Teather's victory against Labour in Brent East in 2003
reinforced public opposition to the Iraq war and temporarily propelled the Lib
Dems to equality with their rivals in the polls.

Historically the Lib Dems have done better in such contests against unpopular
Tory rather than Labour governments.Labour voters react to adversity by staying
at home; Tories are more likely to cast a protest, but without going the whole
hog and supporting the traditional enemy.

With the Lib Dems now in government, they can no longer pose as the natural home
for mid-term malcontents. Worse they may even be forgotten.

By-elections in this parliament are unlikely to see voters flooding their way:
opportunities instead being opened up to parties such as the Greens, the British
National party and UKIP which, with the exception of Caroline Lucas's result in
Brighton Pavilion, were squeezed 10 days ago by the televised debates and the
focus on the three main players.

Potentially even more serious for the Lib Dems is their fate in local
government. Until May 6 they had more councillors in England than Labour and
still enjoy overall control of more than two dozen councils.

Several of their greatest achievements have been in Labour heartland areas where
they successfully posed as a more caring, democratic and, yes, left-wing
alternative.

They had run Liverpool for more than a decade until this year, still have a
majority in Newcastle and Hull, and remain the largest party in Sheffield.

Local success in places where the Tories are the main opposition has also been
vital. The middle-class boroughs in southwest London retain significant Lib Dem
strength (though Richmond was lost to the Tories in the wake of Zac Goldsmith's
parliamentary triumph), as do many councils dotted across southern England.

This not only allows the Lib Dems to hold the reins of power, but gives the
message that they can be a significant electoral force. The constituencies they
held (or gained) at the election are a catalogue of places where local
government strength has been translated into parliamentary presence. Bristol,
Cambridge, Colchester and Lewes are all examples of building from the grass
roots up, as are new seats such as Burnley, Chippenham and Eastbourne.

The Lib Dems have also been willing to go into local coalition with their
rivals. The Tory-Lib Dem deals in Birmingham and Leeds received attention last
week, but they are allied with Labour in the Wirral, for example, and shared
power in Scotland in a Lib-Lab coalition for eight years until 2007.

Will Lib Dem councillors in Wirral now be obliged to sever their links with
Labour? Even if they are not, it places them in a difficult position when
reacting to governmentimposed spending cuts.

The truth is that most Lib Dem activists and at least a plurality of Lib Dem
voters see themselves as ideologically closer to Labour than the Tories. Early
data from the 2010 British Election Study, for example, shows Labour clearly
outscoring the Tories in this regard. Do these people now throw in their lot
with their second preference (Labour) as the sole means of defeating their least
favoured party (the Tories)?

For both Lib Dem activists and voters their party appears to have sacrificed its
independence to the "wrong" rival. Its fortunes for the next five years are
bound with those of the largest party in the government. The Lib Dems have lost
their unique place as the third party in the middle able to attract the
disillusioned and the disaffected from both sides. They will have little reason
to look forward to next year's district council elections if unpopular tax
increases and spending cuts are implemented.

Any electoral backlash may have longer-term consequences.Both Labour and the
Tories have seen recently how a drastic reduction in their number of councillors
has an immediate impact on their ability to campaign on the ground. Lib Dems
rely more on grass roots activity than the others and could suffer worst of all
from the destruction of their local government base.

Nick Clegg and the parliamentary leadership have taken an incredible risk.

Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher are directors of the elections centre at
Plymouth University

WILLIAM HAGUE, 49

FIRST SECRETARY OF STATE AND FOREIGN SECRETARY

Education: Ripon grammar, Oxford University

Brief life: at 16 made a splash with a speech at the 1977 Tory party conference.
Became an MP aged 28 in 1989 and joined the Cabinet in 1995. As Tory leader in
opposition, he tried to remodel the party along baseball cap lines and resigned
after being hit out of the ground in the 2001 election

Odd fact: met his wife Ffion Jenkins when he asked her to teach him the words of
the Welsh national anthem

ERIC PICKLES, 58

COMMUNITIES AND LOCAL GOVERNMENT SECRETARY

Education: Greenhead Grammar (comprehensive), Leeds Polytechnic

Brief life: attracted to communism as a boy, he ended up a Tory councillor in
Bradford. Elected an MP in 1992, he rose to be a well-liked party chairman known
for his imposing girth and plain speaking

Odd fact: One of the people he follows on Twitter is Christine Hamilton, wife of
the disgraced former MP Neil Hamilton

NICK CLEGG, 43

DEPUTY PRIME MINISTER AND LORD PRESIDENT OF THE COUNCIL

Education: Westminster, Cambridge University

Brief life: posh middle-class lineage, drama star at university, dabbled with
journalism before joining European Commission. Became an MEP in 1999 and an MP
in 2005. Narrowly voted leader of Lib Dems in 2007, now first Liberal to taste
power in 60 years

Odd fact: keen tennis player - as is Cameron. Used to practice transcendental
meditation

DAVID CAMERON, 43

PRIME MINISTER, FIRST LORD OF THE TREASURY AND MINISTER FOR THE CIVIL SERVICE

Education: Eton, Oxford University

Brief life: posh middle-class lineage, first-class degree, political adviser to
top Tories, followed by seven-year interlude as a PR smoothy before becoming an
MP in 2001. Came from nowhere to seize Tory leadership in 2005, now youngest PM
for 200 years

Odd fact: his headmaster at Eton, Eric Anderson, had been Tony Blair's
housemaster at Fettes school in Scotland

PHILIP HAMMOND, 54

TRANSPORT SECRETARY

Education: Shenfield school, Oxford University

Brief life: the son of a civil engineer, proved adept at businesses ranging from
housebuilding to healthcare and manufacturing, amassing a multi-million pound
fortune. Elected in 1997, he joined the shadow cabinet in 2005 as shadow chief
secretary to the Treasury

Odd fact: in 2008 he claimed £76 on his expenses for 'office crockery',
including £24 for four teaspoons

DANNY ALEXANDER, 38

SECRETARY OF STATE FOR SCOTLAND

Education: Lochaber High School, Oxford University

Brief life: a politico right from the start with pro-European leanings. Was
director of communications for the European Movement anmd Britain in Europe
before being elected an MP in 2005. Became chief of staff to Clegg in 2007 and
chair the of Lib Dem manifesto group

Odd fact: once favoured farming sea urchins in Scotland because their gonads are
seen by some as a delicacy

KEN CLARKE, 69

LORD CHANCELLOR AND JUSTICE SECRETARY

Education: Nottingham High grammar, Cambridge University

Brief life: trained as a lawyer but always aimed for politics. At 29 became MP
for Rushcliffe, near Nottingham, and has held the seat ever since. Various
cabinet posts under Margaret Thatcher, home secretary and chancellor under John
Major. Remained a big beast in opposition while indulging in numerous business
roles

Odd fact: struggled to find the way past the security checks into Downing Street
last week after a 13-year absence

JEREMY HUNT, 43

CULTURE, OLYMPICS, MEDIA AND SPORT SECRETARY

Education: Charterhouse, Oxford University

Brief life: son of a senior naval officer, he dabbled in management consultancy,
quit to teach in Japan where he learnt to speak Japanese, then set up PR and
publishing companies with an old friend. Elected in 2005, he joined the shadow
cabinet in 2007. Estimated to be worth £4m

Odd fact: prefers early works of Arnold Schoenberg, the classical composer and
pioneer of dodecaphony, to his later ones

THERESA MAY, 53

HOME SECRETARY AND MINISTER FOR WOMEN AND EQUALITIES

Education: Holton Park grammar, Oxford University

Brief life: worked in the City, before being elected in 1997. In 2002 she became
the first woman to chair the Conservative party and attracted attention for her
kitten heels and for describing the Tories as the 'nasty party'. Has held
various shadow ministerial posts

Odd fact: not to be confused with Teresa May, and English glamour model who has
appeared in numerous men's magazines

LORD STRATHCLYDE, 50

LEADER OF THE HOUSE OF LORDS

Education: Wellington, University of East Anglia

Brief life: a hereditary peer, he is the second Baron Strathclyde. His interests
in property and Lloyd's insurance broking make him worth an estimated £10m. A
member of the shadow cabinet since 1997, he has previously spoken out in favour
of a mainly elected House of Lords, with appointed independent cross benchers

Odd fact: his full name is Thomas Galloway Dunlop du Roy de Blicquy Galbraith

CHRIS HUHNE, 55

ENERGY AND CLIMATE CHANGE SECRETARY

Education: Westminster, the Sorbonne and Oxford University Brief life:
first-class PPE degree, 19 years as a business journalist, and then went off to
make money in the City. In 1999 he was elected an MEP and in 2005 an MP. Twice
stood for the leadeship of the Lib Dems, losing the second time to Nick Clegg by
only 511 votes out of a total 41,000 cast

Odd fact: in March he ran a 10k road race in 52.06 minutes one minute slower
than he ran the same race last year

BARONESS WARSI, 39

MINISTER WITHOUT PORTFOLIO

Education: Birkdale high, University of Leeds

Brief life: daughter of an immigrant entrepreneur, she worked as a lawyer with
Home Office. Special adviser to Michael Howard, the former Tory leader, she
stood unsuccessfully as an MP in 2005 and was made a peer in 2007. Now party
chairman and first Muslim in Cabinet

Odd fact: had an arranged marriage to her cousin at 19, divorced in 2007, and
married for a second time last year

DAVID LAWS, 44

CHIEF SECRETARY TO THE TREASURY

Education: St George's college, Cambridge University

Brief life: double first in economics, went into investment banking in the City.
Left in 1994 to become economic adviser to the Lib Dems and succeeded Paddy
Ashdown as MP for Yeovil in 2001. When the Tories tried to tempt him to join
them in 2007, he rejected the offer saying: 'I am not a Tory'

Odd fact: Admits that his time in the City gave him 'the financial backing to
get involved in politics'

OWEN PATERSON, 53

NORTHERN IRELAND SECRETARY

Education: Radley, Cambridge University

Brief life: got into leather gear after university by joining the British
Leather Company, rising to become sales director and then managing director from
1993 to 1999. Elected in 1997, he became Northern Ireland shadow in 2007.

A member of the right-wing Cornerstone group and a Eurosceptic Odd fact: married
to the Hon Rose Ridley, daughter of the 4th Viscount Ridley

LIAM FOX, 48

DEFENCE SECRETARY

Education: St Bride's comprehensive, Glasgow University

Brief life: after studying medicine, became a general practitioner until he was
elected an MP in 1992. Held junior positions in John Major's government, and
joined the Tory front bench in opposition. Stood for party leader in 2005,
coming third behind Cameron and David Davis

Odd fact: claimed more than £18,000 on expenses for his mobile phone bills

CHERYL GILLAN, 58

SECRETARY OF STATE FOR WALES

Education: Cheltenham Ladies College, College of Law

Brief life: born in Wales, but her family left when she was 11. Became a
marketing consultant and chair of right-wing Bow Group before being elected in
1992. Served in junior government positions under John Major, and was a front
bench spokeswoman in opposition, becoming Shadow Welsh secretary in 2005

Odd fact: a member of the parliamentary choir, she has sung Hen Wlad fy Nhadau
(Land of my Fathers) on BBC Radio Wales

ANDREW MITCHELL, 54

INTERNATIONAL DEVELOPMENT SECRETARY

Education: Rugby, Cambridge

University

Brief life: son of a former MP, he served in the army after university, then
became an investment banker with Lazards. Elected in 1987, he lost his seat in
1997. Re-elected in 2001, he joined the shadow cabinet in 2005

Odd fact: once defended a female lunch companion by catching an annoying wasp
with his bare hands

IAIN DUNCAN SMITH, 56

WORK AND PENSIONS SECRETARY

Education: HMS Conway naval

training school, Sandhurst

Brief life: served in Scots Guards, succeeded Norman Tebbit as MP for Chingford
in 1992. Elected party leader in 2001, soon lost backbencher's confidence and
didn't last long. After his downfall, set up the Centre for Social Justice to
research solutions to poverty and the problems of 'broken Britain'

Odd fact: at school he used to play rugby with Clive Woodward, who went on to
coach England

VINCE CABLE, 67

BUSINESS SECRETARY

Education: Nunthorpe grammar, Cambridge University and PhD Glasgow University

Brief life: he's been a government finance officer in Kenya, an economic adviser
to the Commonwealth secretary-general, a special adviser to John Smith, the
former Labour leader, Shell's chief economist and a Lib Dem MP since 1997. More
recently he's emerged as a proponent of radical bank reform

Odd fact: a keen ballroom dancer, he predicted Alesha Dixon would win Strictly
Come Dancing

CAROLINE SPELMAN, 52

ENVIRONMENT, FOOD AND

RURAL AFFAIRS SECRETARY

Education: Essex grammar, Queen

Mary College, London

Brief life: began work as 'sugar beet commodity secretary' of the National
Farmers Union, married a management consultant and started a food consultancy.
Elected in 1997 and became a shadow minister in 2001. Chaired the party, but hit
trouble with lavish expenses claims

Odd fact: used to ride a rusty old bike to the House of Commons. Officials
nearly removed it thinking it had been abandoned

GEORGE OSBORNE, 38

CHANCELLOR OF THE EXCHEQUER

Education: St Paul's, Oxford University

Brief life: heir to Sir Peter Osborne, baronet and founder of the Osborne &
Little wallpaper company. Joined Conservative Central office and became a
special adviser. Elected an MP in 2001, became shadow chancellor in 2005 at 33
and has been close to Cameron ever since

Odd fact: he applied for a junior job at The Economist in 1997 - and was turned
down for lack of experience

ANDREW LANSLEY, 53

HEALTH SECRETARY

Education: Brentwood School, Exeter University

Brief life: studied politics at university and became a civil servant, rising to
be private secretary to Norman Tebbit at the Department of Trade and Industry.
He ran the Tories' successful 1992 election campaign and in 1997 became an MP
himself. Served as shadow health secretary from 2003

Odd fact: while playing cricket in 1996, he suffered a minor stroke that has
permanently affected his sense of balance

MICHAEL GOVE, 42

EDUCATION SECRETARY

Education: state and private schools, Oxford University

Brief life: adopted at four months old, brought up by a fish merchant father and
lab assistant mother in Aberdeen, he went into journalism after university. An
influential thinker among young Tories he was elected in 2005 and joined the
shadow cabinet in 2007

Odd fact: He played a chaplain in the 1995 film A Feast at Midnight which also
featured Edward Fox and Christopher Lee

The cabinet by numbers

23 FULL-TIME MEMBERS

5 HAVE PREVIOUS GOVERNMENT EXPERIENCE

6 ONLY JOINED PARLIAMENT IN 2005 OR LATER

15 WENT TO OXFORD OR CAMBRIDGE

13 EDUCATED AT FEEPAYING SCHOOLS

38 AGE OF YOUNGEST

AGE OF OLDEST MEMBER 69

52 AVERAGE AGE

4 WOMEN, ALL TORY

5 LIB DEMS, ALL MEN

and much of the second are used as offices and state entertaining areas George
Osborne is understood to use the one-bedroom flat on the second floor above No
10 while his wife and two children will stay at the north London family home
Osborne flat Deputy prime minister will be based next door in the Cabinet Office
Clegg's office Family expected to move into four-bedroom, two-storey flat above
No 11 because it is larger than the No 10 apartment. It has views of Horse
Guards Parade and access to the garden Cameron apartment Cabinet room The seat
of power for Cameron and Clegg, separated from the rest of the house by
soundproof doors Grand staircase Elegant cantilevered staircase leads way to
state rooms Downing Street No 12 No 10 No 11 F I R ST F LOOR SECOND F LOOR
DOWNINGSTREET Cabinet room PM's office Main stairs Main hall Dining room
Reception room Whip's office Main bedroom Bathroom Bedroom Bedroom Press office
Bedroom Entrance lobby Cameron need never have a key. There is always someone to
open the door for him. Clegg might need to knock or use the back door into the
Cabinet Office

LOAD-DATE: May 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 23, 2010



CORRECTION: In the panel in the Focus election special, we list Ripon grammar as
William Hague's school. Although he attended it for a few months, his main
school was Wath-on-Dearne comprehensive.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Country diary;
A find tilt at Parliament has come to naught

BYLINE: Robin Page

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 697 words


Oh well, it has come and gone, my last election. I definitely will not be
standing for Parliament again. The problem is that for small parties and
individuals it is impossible to beat the system. So at a time when it appeared
that people were totally disillusioned with politics and politicians, voters
turned out in huge numbers to return the same old parties.

I had hoped that sleaze, the democratic deficit and the state of the countryside
would be the main issues, but no - thanks to the media friends of London's
political elite, the General Election was turned into a political game show.

The result was predictable, the public voted for the only people allowed to take
part - the three main parties. Perhaps the Electoral Commission, the BBC Trust
and the assorted pundits should be sent on a course to learn the meaning of the
simple word "democracy".

For me the election was difficult, with food security, conservation, immigration
and "travellers" being huge rural issues, which were never mentioned. Nobody
seemed interested in the countryside and I did not hear the words "farming" and
"food" once. The political pamphlets on show were full of spin - the bland
leading the bland.

So I have given up. Lulu is pleased with my decision. Perhaps she hopes I will
now concentrate on saving for the elusive Aga, rather than spending money on
posters, pamphlets and T-shirts - yes Tshirts.

My local MP Andrew Lansley experienced some peculiar parliamentary moments
recently - which included classifying gravel for his drive as an "expense". His
claim for a barbecue was rejected. So I had a rather fetching T-shirt printed
proclaiming "Vote For Robin Page. The Man With No Gravel". It made minimum
impact and Lansley was re-elected with nearly 30,000 votes.

Although Lansley, a Tory, got the most votes, the Lib-Dems easily won the poster
war, realising only too late that posters don't vote. I had a few posters
printed too - but the expense!

For my opponents money seemed no object. I was left hoping for the intervention
of the "tooth fairy". During the course of the campaign one of my last four
teeth dropped out. Sadly, it is true, and I had hoped to put it under my pillow
in an attempt to get a donation for my campaign. Unfortunately I dropped the
detached gnasher into the sink and it went straight down the plughole. Fate can
play many cruel tricks.

The other problem I had was time - or rather, lack of it. While my opponents
Lansley and the Lib-Dem, inevitably called Sebastian [Kindersley], were busy
shaking hands and kissing babies, I was out checking the electric fence so that
the cattle stayed in, homing in already on newly sprouted ragwort and spraying
the sheep against flystrike.

Sadly, sheep are not allowed to vote, although with the way Britain is being
steadily Disneyfied this could well be the case one day.

Then, of course, I was told that the way to win elections these days is to go
online. "Get a website," my friend Nigel informed me: "It will get you thousands
of votes." Sorry Nigel, the number of visits to the site in May at the time of
the election was 784 - not the 27,996 "hits" converted into votes I would have
required to beat Andrew Lansley. So the election clarified one thing -
Electronic Britain? Vastly overrated.

As the day of the election approached I was busy digging out cattle drinkers in
the brook, while my agent Graham was repairing the barn. And just like posters
and sheep, barns don't vote.

Consequently as polling day drew to a close the big question was would I save my
deposit? After all £500 would at least pay for part of an Aga.

I was quite nervous waiting to go to the count and we kept waiting. "Where is
Graham?" I asked Lulu. We phoned him shortly before midnight - astonishingly he
was in bed listening to the results: "What," he groaned, "I thought the count
was tomorrow."

Eventually the declaration came. I had polled 1,968 votes and had actually
beaten both UKIP and the Green Party, and yes I had lost my deposit. Oh well -
my political career is now over. That at least gets Lulu's vote.

Revolting Peasant by Robin Page is available from Telegraph Books for £12.50
plus £1.50 p&p (0844 871 1514 or books.telegraph.co.uk)

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Coalition strengthened by liberal tradition of small government and civil
liberties;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 663 words


SIR - I am not surprised that David Cameron and Nick Clegg seem to have found
much in common. While many commentators and activists approach the coalition in
the vein of a Man Utd fan being forced to say good things about Man City, a more
worthwhile approach is to consider the philosophical meaning of liberalism.

At its simplest, a liberal believes a person should be free to do as he wishes,
without interference, so long as that action does not impose on the rights of
others. Conservative notions of civil liberties, small government and
deregulation conform with this.

The question is not why the Tories and Lib Dems seem to be getting on all of a
sudden, but rather how the Lib Dems ever allowed socialists to usurp their
Liberal roots.

Paul Schroeder London SW1 SIR - In the 1980s, I was the joint founder of the
Liberals for a Minimum Deterrent pressure group. I left the Lib Dems in the mid
1990s, as they had moved too far to the Left for me. To my complete surprise,
Britain now has my dream Government.

Conservatives used to worry that a Labour/Liberal pact could keep them out of
Government for 40 years. Now Conservatives should grasp that a new understanding
with the Liberals could keep Labour out of office for a generation.

A few hothead Liberals may go to the Greens, and a few Tories defect to Ukip.
Let them go. New politics does not need them.

John A. Hartley Ripley, Woking SIR - A Liberal Democrat candidate is standing
against the Conservative at Thirsk, which holds its poll in the general election
three weeks later than the rest of us, on May 27, because of the death of a
candidate.

"A key indicator this time," opines the Yorkshire Post, "may be whether the
Liberal Democrats manage to take second place from Labour, as they did on May 6
at nearby Richmond." But what good would it do a Liberal Democrat voter to
attempt to outdo Labour and leave the Tories as victors? If there is to be
tactical voting, then Lib Dems dissatisfied with the coalition might vote
Labour. Conservatives who dislike the coalition could vote Labour too. Then true
Conservatives and diehard Lib Dems could be united locally behind the red
rosette.

Paul Marsh Leeds SIR - David Cameron faced the same problem as Strephon, the
hero of Gilbert and Sullivan's Iolanthe.

Fairy Queen [to Strephon who is a fairy down to the waist, but whose legs are
mortal]: With a fairy brain you should seek an intellectual sphere of action.
Let me see. I've a borough or two at my disposal. Would you like to go into
Parliament? Strephon: I'm afraid I should do no good there - you see, down to
the waist, I'm a Tory of the most determined description, but my legs are a
couple of confounded Radicals, and, on a division, they'd be sure to take me
into the wrong lobby. You see, they're two to one, which is a strong working
majority.

Fairy Queen: Don't let that distress you; you shall be returned as a
Liberal-Conservative, and your legs shall be our peculiar care.

Dr Tim Watkin Singapore SIR - A fixed-term parliament may be a good idea, but
why for five years? We have just limped to the end of a five-year term under a
tired prime minister and I dread the thought of such a thing again.

Sally A. Williams Dinas Cross, Pembrokeshire SIR - Seeing the new Cabinet
squeezed around the Cabinet Room table made me wonder how many it was made for.

It was kind of Cabinet ministers to reduce their salaries by 5 per cent, but is
there not scope to prune their number? Don Hadfield Cardiff SIR - How
disappointing that there is no Cabinet seat for a dedicated Minister of
Agriculture. Does this indicate that the importance of farming is still not
appreciated for food security? David Kilbey Stow on the Wold, Gloucestershire
SIR - With Conservative manifesto pledges being ditched or deprioritised, every
day that passes makes the coalition look like a reverse takeover by Lib Dems.
Jean Maigrot Diss, Norfolk SIR - Don't complain. Anything to have got rid of
Brown.

Pauline Coleman Painswick, Gloucestershire

LOAD-DATE: May 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A gargoyle on St Mary's church, Thirsk, where all eyes are on the
Tory/Lib Dem poll battle
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             May 15, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

VILLAGE PEOPLE

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 508 words


Cash doesn't register

Joanne Cash, who has a fine reputation as a lawyer, chose to stop doing what she
does well and devote herself to something she was really bad at when she became
the Tory candidate in Westminster North.

With an election imminent, she resigned in a blaze of publicity, but unresigned
after Cameron had intervened. She also offended local party members by putting
"RIP dinosaurs" on her Twitter page. Then, despite two fundraising visits from
Cameron in person, she achieved a swing of 0.5 per cent against Labour, almost
the lowest anywhere in Britain, and lost. After the result, she appeared to
blame the press. "Press, you are on notice of the truth as of now - no more
lies!" she declared. Her Twitter page has been taken down. RIP one political
career.

Sir Peter tops all

If you think this is the age of "new politics", you should watch the archaic
ceremony that will mark the resumption of business in the House of Commons at
2.30 on Tuesday, all the doffing of caps as MPs gather in the House of Lords and
are told to go away and elect a Speaker. Almost as ancient as this ritual is the
dignitary who will be temporarily occupying the Speaker's chair. That honour
goes to the longest-serving MP, or Father of the House, Sir Peter Tapsell. He
has just been re-elected as MP for Louth at the age of 80, worked in 10 Downing
Street when Anthony Eden was Prime Minister and was first elected to Parliament
in 1959.

Taking the Eady option

As Ken Clarke settles into his new job as Justice Secretary, one of his tasks
will be to address libel law, which all the main political parties agree needs
reforming. He could take as his thought for the day a comment by Sir David Eady,
the judge whom Paul Dacre, editor of the Daily Mail, once attacked as a menace
to free speech.

This week, Justice Eady made a very unusual ruling in favour of a left-wing
blogger, Dave Osler, who was being sued for libel by Johanna Kaschke, a Tory
activist from Tower Hamlets.

Kaschke, who suffered wrongful arrest in Germany during the hysteria created by
the Baader-Meinhof gang, claimed that Osler had implied she condoned terrorism.
Not satisfied at being given right of reply, she wanted trial by jury. The case
could have cost hundreds of thousands of pounds had the excellent Robert Dougans
not stepped in to represent Osler free of charge, and persuaded Judge Eady to
strike it off because the blog did not say what Kaschke had read into it.

Justice Eady, no great friend of journalists, was moved in this case to point
out that "being sued at all is a serious interference with freedom of
expression". Why then did it take two years and the intervention of a renowned
advocate to establish that it was an expensive fuss about nothing?

Julie finds a reason for Ukip

Speaking of people who have made strange political journeys, the writer Julie
Burchill, born-again ex-communist and ex-Trotskyist, offered this gem in her
latest column for the Jewish Chronicle: "I voted for Ukip because I STILL
haven't forgiven the Germans for what they did to your lot."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Tories may fight coalition vote plan;
COMMONS RULES

BYLINE: Rosa Prince

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1249 words


TORY MPs might rebel against "profoundly anti-democratic" moves to keep the new
coalition in power by increasing the threshold for a vote of no confidence.

Under the terms of a deal struck between the two parties, ministers plan to
introduce a law that would require the votes of 55 per cent of the Commons - 358
MPs - before the Government could be thrown out.

David Cameron said this was to ensure that the coalition survived the five-year
fixed term over which he intends to govern.

However, MPs of all parties are concerned that the move amounts to a radical
change in the constitution, which was not put to the electorate at the general
election. Labour MPs will vote against the move and may be joined by several
Conservative backbenchers, who are lobbying for the measure to be dropped.

At present, a simple majority of MPs can vote down a government.

Because the five Sinn Fein MPs do not take their Commons seats, and, by
convention, the Speaker and his deputies do not take part in votes, the new law
would mean that it would be virtually impossible to topple the Conservatives
even if their Liberal Democrat colleagues quit the coalition.

The Conservatives have 306 MPs - 20 short of an overall majority, but more than
enough to resist a vote of no confidence under the proposed new system.

If the 55 per cent threshold had been in place during the 1979 Winter of
Discontent, the Labour administration would not have collapsed in the vote of no
confidence that led to the election which ushered in Margaret Thatcher.

Charles Walker, Tory MP for Broxbourne, said: "It is for Parliament to decide
when it has lost confidence in govenment.

This would be the loss of an enormous check."

Jack Straw, the former justice secretary, and David Blunkett, the former home
secretary, said the coalition was planning an undemocratic "fix".

The Conservatives have more than 47 per cent of MPs, meaning the combined weight
of all the other parties would not be enough to reach the 55 per cent threshold
without a Tory rebellion.

William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, said the threshold was necessary to
sustain the new parliamentary terms. He told BBC Radio 4's World at One: "This
is a constitutional innovation, but so is the idea of a fixed-term parliament."

Telegraph jury Time for readers to have their say

Relve Spread Age: 30 Lives: With friends Job: Graduate student Constituency:
Battersea Last time: Labour This time: Lib Dem I had doubts about Cameron and I
like Clegg, but not some of his policies. I trust Clegg more as a person but
felt that as a person, and then as a party, he/they is/are lacking in political
front line experience unlike Cameron, which I think maybe showed in some of the
Lib Dem policies and the debates. With Cameron I suddenly worried about
traditional Conservative ideology and policies and I think Lib Dem influence
could moderate those, as well as justify them. Their ostensive willingness,
particularly on Cameron's behalf, to operate as a team rather than two parties
means I trust and like Cameron much more in having the country's interests at
heart rather than just his party and party pressures. I just hope that it won't
amount to all talk and no action.

David Pagan Age: 44 Lives: With wife and two children Job: Finance manager
Constituency: Solihull Last time: Lib Dem This time: Lib Dem It will turn out to
be a good thing. The double act will become more workmanlike once the pressures
mount. Cameron has been allowed to drop the more bizarre of his policy ideas
such as giving the wealthy massive inheritance tax breaks while being forced to
consider the human angle of his necessary budget reductions. The Lib Dems have a
greater showing in the Cabinet than expected, though it's disappointing to see
so many Etonians present, unrepresentative of the population. I'm remembering
some of the many good things Brown did. Debt relief to the world's poor,
restoring proper funding to the NHS and education system, global lead on
resolving the greedy banker debt crisis. I hope the Cameron/Clegg legacy is as
impressive.

Peter Wood Age: 57 Job: Economic consultant Lives: With wife and two daughters
Constituency: Edinburgh South Last time: Conservative This time: Conservative
The Tory/Lib Dem coalition is certainly legitimate in constitutional terms -
whether it has enough support from the members of each party, especially on the
Lib Dem side, to make it morally legitimate is less clear. I think it will fall
apart within two years - despite the questionable fiddling with the constitution
involved in raising the bar for a no-confidence vote to trigger an election. I
don't have high hopes of this government. I think Vince Cable will soon fall out
with his Tory colleagues. I think Lib Dems must be wondering which party is
Clegg's true home.

Shelly Asquith Age: 19 Lives: With parents Job: Marketing assistant
Constituency: Chelmsford Last time: Not eligible This time: Labour I do think
the coalition is democratically legitimate, since both parties combined gained a
majority of the vote share. Whether the voters themselves find this outcome
desirable is a different matter.

Both probably now stand to lose some support; progressive Lib Dems to Labour and
eurosceptic Conservatives to Ukip. From my point of view as a Labour supporter,
the Lib Dem influence on Conservative policy is at least a form of moderation.

The Clegg-Cam double act seems pretentious and, I'm hoping, ideological
discrepancy will probably mean a call for another election before the end of the
five-year tenure.

Vilma McAdam Age: 66 Lives: With husband Job: Retired local government official
Constituency: Aberdeen South Last time: Lib Dem This time: Lib Dem While I would
never vote for the Conservative Party because they don't do any favours for
those of us who live in Scotland, I believe the Lib Dems will have a so-called
calming effect on those Conservative policies I have no time for such as Europe,
and crime/punishment. I'm delighted there will be a referendum for the
Alternative Vote which I hope will get us closer, in due course, to a proper
proportional representation voting system. First past the post is outdated and
is an unfair voting system, resulting in a government that normally represents a
small proportion of the people of Britain. You've only got to look to see how
differently England and Scotland vote. I'm sure the coalition will last the full
five years because neither the Conservatives nor the Lib Dems will want another
general election in a hurry.

Clifford Forsyth Age: 67 Lives: with wife Job: retired IT technician
Constituency: Harrow West Last time: Conservative This time: Conservative Of the
possible options available, the Lib/Con coalition is probably the best of a
rather shaky lot. The Labour Party has imploded and will be unlikely to be a
serious parliamentary opposition for the immediate future. The political glue of
selfinterest and expediency may just bind these two factions into a workable
government. So far, the external signs are encouraging. The mutual back slapping
and verbal foreplay is a bit much, but these are uncharted waters and they can
be forgiven for trying too hard. The Cabinet appointments appear logical and
sensible with no obvious square pegs, so let's see if this unlikely crew can
actually sail the government ship without foundering at the harbour mouth. The
rough waters are ahead. The markets are watching with some surprise and appear
to be giving it the benefit of the doubt. We should all do the same."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron addresses staff at the Home Office in Whitehall
yesterday. He could face a rebellion from his own MPs over plans for fixed- term
parliaments
KEN MCKAY /ITV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage still waiting for get well card from 'damp rag' president;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uktelegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 276 words


As Nigel Farage continues to recover from the broken ribs, bruised lungs,
damaged sternum and facial injuries that he sustained in an aircrash in a
pre-election stunt, the "get well" cards have been taking up more and more space
on his mantelpiece.

Hearteningly for the former Ukip leader, two of the European Union's three
presidents, José Manuel Barroso and Jerzy Buzek, were among the first to send
him their best wishes for a speedy recovery.

Alas, no card has so far been forthcoming from Herman Van Rompuy, but then this
is the character that Farage once charmingly described to his face as a man with
"all the charisma of a damp rag". He also told him in the European Parliament
that he had the "appearance of a low-grade bank clerk".

Farage, 46, tells Mandrake: "I was surprised and pleased to receive the get well
cards from two such prominent figures in the European Union, but I am still
waiting for one from Mr Van Rompuy. I will be checking the post every day, but I
am not holding my breath."

The colourful politician, who had been standing unsuccessfully against John
Bercow, the Speaker of the House, in his Buckingham constituency, had always
been a nervous flyer and joked that he hoped the aircraft would not crash before
he boarded it for an election day stunt.

It came down at Hinton-inthe-Hedges airfield near Brackley, Northants, after its
banner, reading "Vote for your country - Vote Ukip", had apparently become
snagged in the tail fin. The pilot, Justin Adams, also miraculously survived the
crash.

Farage, who considers himself lucky to be alive after the plane nosedived, adds
that he expects to be out of action for several more weeks.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The former Ukip leader, battered and bruised, after his light aircraft
crashed on election day

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Oh la la! C'est Robin Hood;
Cannes launches with Ridley Scott's new action flick - and looks forward to
theMoomins. Sukhdev Sandhu and David Gritten report

BYLINE: Sukhdev Sandhu ; David Gritten

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1130 words


The drifting silica of Eyjafjallajojull overhanging Europe. Cries and whispers
about the loadsamoney companies of yore no longer splashing their cash on
first-time indie pics. Oversized images of Kevin Spacey along the rue d'Antibes.
The 63rd Cannes Film Festival, which started on Wednesday, feels a little
subdued, a little transitional. Who will stand up for the value of auteurism
when, now more than ever, it's 3D extravaganzas and megabuck sequels that are
motoring movie-ticket sales internationally? Are festivals themselves outdated,
site-specific and stiffly curated relics of a pre-internet era that has
fragmented and dispersed the cinematic experience? Time, perhaps, will tell. In
the meantime, along gallops Ridley Scott, bringing his actionist energy,
pyrotechnical flourishes, and Alist glamour to the latest version of Robin Hood.
Screening out of the Competition, it got a respectful if not exactly joyful
response from audience members. Perhaps they were baffled by its free-floating
and frankly baffling take on 12th-century international diplomacy that seemed as
viable as the foreign policy section of the Ukip electoral manifesto. Perhaps
they were puzzled that Friar Tuck's passion for apiaries is given almost as much
attention as the romance between Russell Scott and Cate Blanchett.

Mathieu Amalric once declared: "I think my nightmare would be that maybe I'm
just a good actor." But he's such a great actor, long disarming audiences - both
arthouse (Ma Vie Sexuelle, Heartbeat Detector) and commercial (The Diving Bell
and the Butterfly, Quantum of Solace) - that it's easy to forget he started out
as a director. In Tournée (On Tour), his first cinema feature since 2001, and
screening in Competition, he stars as Joachim, a former TV producer who's
returned to France after an extended sojourn in America to manage a troupe of
New Burlesque dancers he assembled while in the States.

Inspired partly by a 1913 Colette book, Tournée is funny, intelligent, sad-eyed
- just like Amalric himself. It's a road movie in which the real-life dancers,
many of them older and more weathered than the norm, move from port city to port
city, whooping it up, but also drinking and hitting on random bar-hounds to
stave off loneliness. Joachim, forever stuffing his pockets with hotel-counter
sweets, always bidding reception staff in vain to turn down their crappy Muzak,
is a functional mess: exes, his two young sons and old debtors still fume at his
casual selfishness.

But there's always a dynamism, an awkward hunger for something more in life -
qualities shared by the dancers whose routines, documented with neither
voyeurism nor Puritanism, are unusually witty - that means Tournée avoids
turning into a roadto-redemption mopefest. Quite the reverse: a scene in which
he and a gasstation attendant (Aurélia Petit) flirt, at night and separated by
plexi-glass, is as touching and as sexy as any in the last year. And Miranda
Colclasure, spiky and hungering as one of the dancers, adds emotional clout.

The pain of returning home is also one of the themes of Wang Xiaoshuai's
Chongqing Blues. Lin (Wang Xueqi) is a sea captain who comes back from a long
sojourn to discover that police shot dead his 25-year-old son Lin Bo (Zi Yi)
after he'd taken hostages in a local mall. His efforts to learn more take him to
hair salons, soccer pitches, hospitals, techno clubs. It's a journey through and
across a city that's as opaque and transformed as his estranged child. Its
modernity leaves him alienated; its desire to slough off the past at odds with
his need for some kind of historical reckoning.

Like many Chinese films being made today, Chongqing Blues desperately needs to
find international audiences; its focus on dislocation - both physical and
mental - and its melancholic textures aren't in demand back home. With barely a
false note, and a quietly absorbing lead performance from Wang, this is a
slow-burning gem.

Watching Portuguese director Manoel De Oliveira's O Estranho Caso De Angélica,
screening in the Un Certain Regard strand, is like watching a pensioner
competing in the London Marathon: he may be slow, but isn't he old?! De Oliveira
is 101. He was born before Charlie Chaplin had even started making films.
Angélica is a sleepy sonata about love, death and science. It's droll,
uncluttered, and rather boring. Still, he's 101! SS TRATINGþþþþþ Robin Hood
TRATINGþþþþþ Tourné TRATINGþþþþþ Chongqing Blues TRATINGþþþþþ Angélica If it
were possible to sum up the first two days of a film festival in a single word,
then "tentative" would just about cover the overall mood so far at this year's
Cannes.

It's made a quiet start and most people seem to be unsure if they're having a
good time. Even the weather is reserving its options. More of the storms that
lashed the Riviera coast this past week were expected to dampen the festival's
first few days, but the first day and a half has been typically sunny.

And the festival's opening film, Robin Hood, gave off mixed messages: despite
the polite indifference to the film itself, there was a wildly enthusiastic
greeting from the crowds on the Croisette to its stars Cate Blanchett and
Russell Crowe.

In the Palais des Festivals, the market sector of Cannes, the air of uncertainty
feels just as strong. There simply aren't as many films being bought and sold,
and you don't need to be a genius to work out why. Fewer films have been going
into production, so supply has dried up at the market place. Three years ago,
equity funds were investing enthusiastically in film - a tendency the industry
caustically refers to as 'dumb money'. But this too has virtually disappeared.

This tentative mood continued yesterday, with the most high-minded selection of
films being premiered on any of the 12 days. This year's Palme d'Or competition
is serious in tone and favours veteran auteurs rather than star power. Thursday
brought films from Portugal, China, South Korea and Romania.

So, reasons to be cheerful. Let's pick a few at random. Well, Oliver Stone and
Michael Douglas blow into town today for the Wall Street sequel, Money Never
Sleeps. Around these parts, Stone is regarded as an auteur rather than just a
provocative rascal, while Douglas is an even bigger star in Europe than in the
US. And how can you not smile at the news that Moomins and the Comet Chase (in
stereoscopic 3D! With Stellan Skarsgard, and Mads Mikkelsen in the voice cast!)
is also having its world premiere today? Let no one say Cannes is not a broad
church.

There's plenty to look forward to. New films from Loach, Leigh and charismatic
Mexican director Alejandro González Iñárritu; the prospect of unexpected gems
from unknown talents. And who knows? Maybe a few films will be bought and sold.
Maybe even the weather may hold. DG

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Moomins hit the big screen
Out of the woods: Russell Crowe and Cate Blanchett, the stars of 'Robin Hood',
all dressed up in Cannes
KPA/ZUMA /REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP put EU fanatics into government

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 244 words


For years I have been trying to warn the Tories that UKIP, by splitting their
vote (and only their vote) in key marginaIs could cost them the election. To no
avail.

In 2005 UKIP provably cost the Tories 25 targeted marginals. My formula is
simple and I think probably accurate. of 1,000 votes cast for UKIP in an
almost-Tory marginal, 100 will go to other parties if UKIP does not stand. Two
hundred will stay at home. But the other 700 are almost certainly lifelong
Tories, disillusioned, disenchanted but fiercely pro-British not just on the EU
but on everything. They would return to their roots and vote Tory, hoping
against hope for an end at last to the long litany of capitulation to Brussels.

Those 25 seats in 2005 would not have changed the government but would have cut
Blair's majority from 66 to 16, giving him a hair-trigger majority instead of a
hugely cushioned one. Last week UKIP provably cost the Conservatives 15
marginals and brought the EU fanatics into the heart of government. They
certainly cost the Conservatives the chance to govern alone and roll back the EU
tide. With patriots that stupid this old country does not need enemies.

By the by, the 15 constituencies are: Wirral South, Wells, Walsall South,
Walsall North, Telford, St Ives, Southampton Itchen, Solihull, Plymouth Moor
View, Newcastle-under-Lyme, Hampstead and Kilburn, Great Grimsby, Dudley North,
Dorset Mid and Poole and Bolton West.

I hope they are all proud of themselves.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Outrage over police plan to give heroin junkies free needles

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 538 words


A PROPOSAL for police to give heroin addicts advice and free needles to inject
the drug safely sparked outrage last night.

Under the scheme, junkies will receive so-called Harm Reduction Kits of clean
needles, a clinical waste container and a manual about the most effective dose
and the right veins to inject.

The drug users are to be given the packs when released from custody in a bid to
stop them killing themselves.

The scheme will get underway in Cambridgeshire next month.

But last night there was outrage that police appeared to be encouraging the use
of the deadly class A drug. Monmouth MP David Davies said: "I am astonished by
this initiative. My understanding is that it is the police's job to catch drug
dealers and possession of drugs is also against the law.

Preventing "We should get drug users off the streets and if necessary force them
to get medical help to combat their addiction."

Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This is sending out mixed
messages about drug use. The authorities should make their mind up whether they
think drugs should be banned or not."

Former Home Office minister and Daily Express columnist Ann Widdecombe said: "We
should be preventing heroin use, not sanitising the use of the drug.

"The initiative is tackling the drug problem from the wrong end."

UKIP MEP David Campbell Bannerman said: "We fight a war on drugs while giving
junkies instructions on how to mainline. Meanwhile lives are wrecked, houses
despoiled and families destroyed.

"There must be a Royal Commission to sort out this, because policies today are
failing everybody." Police in Cambridge have teamed up with drug workers and
medical experts in a bid to slow the spread of the deadly blood diseases HIV and
hepatitis and prevent overdoses.

The kits will be handed out to addicts who refuse to take part in a drug
withdrawal programme.

It is also hoped that packs - which are the size of a glasses case - will stop
drug users recklessly dumping dirty needles in public places.

Project architect PC Shelley Ward said the police did not want to be seen to be
helping junkies to take drugs, but explained the force had a duty of care for
anybody who had been in the cells. She added: "The chances are they are
committing acquisitive crime [burglary, robbery and theft] to feed their habit
and most drug users that you speak to readily admit that crime is linked to
their drug habit."

PC Ward claimed that addicts are more likely to use shared or dirty needles if
police confiscate their equipment.

Cambridgeshire police said yesterday that the initiative was not encouraging
drug use and that officers would continue to clamp down on drugrelated crime
such as burglary. A spokesman added: "The aim of the Harm Reduction Kits is to
prevent death by overdose or from lethal infection and to reduce the risk of a
member of the public being infected by a discarded needle."

The Department of Health gave its backing to the scheme.

A spokesman said: "Since 1985 harm reduction has included needle exchange
schemes to help reduce the spread of HIV and other blood-borne viruses such as
hepatitis.

"Such services can also help create opportunities for individuals to discuss
their drug habit and provide avenues to treatment."

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Drug users will be given clean needles and advice on how to use them
safely

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

KILROY WASN'T 'ERE

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 74 words


DECISIONS, decisions. Which news channel to watch Tuesday's political drama on?
I switched from the BBC - pompous David Dimbleby thinks he's more important than
the events he describes - only to hear Sky's Adam Boulton snottily announce
Gordon Brown wasn't fit to be PM.

These telly smartypants are too big for their boots. None could do what
politicians do. Don't believe me? Consider Robert Kilroy-Silk, briefly of Ukip
and Veritas.

I rest my case.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 14, 2010 Friday

Letters - Lisbon treaty - David in bed with Ukip?

LENGTH: 112 words


David Stevenson (M Star May 6) says the SSP has called for supporting workers in
struggle and extending the public sector among other things.

So has all the left, including the Labour left.

But what I was raising (M Star May 4) was the question of what is driving this
attack on workers in so many countries.

Communists have argued in this election that the Lisbon Treaty prohibits member
states from seeking a public-sector solution to the economic crisis.

The treaty outlaws all attempts to restrict the capitalist market and thereby
gives unlimited freedom to big business.

Trying to equate that analysis with Ukip is embarrassing, David - for you, that
is.

TOM MORRISON, Glasgow.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 14, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Bercow may face challenge

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 224 words


John Bercow may face a challenge to his position as Speaker when the new
Parliament gathers next week.

Friends of the Speaker are expecting at least one MP to object to his
re-election when the Commons sits for the first time on Tuesday. A single voice
objecting is enough to force a formal vote on his future.

Several Tory MPs have predicted that this is likely to happen, including the
Tory backbencher Nadine Dorries, one of his most prominent opponents.

Mr Bercow stood successfully at the general election, with opposition from UKIP
but not the three main parties. However, he became Speaker last June,
principally with the support of Labour MPs. David Cameron made no secret of his
preference for Sir George Young, now Leader of the Commons.

However, senior Tories expect that Mr Bercow would survive a vote. It would not
be whipped but Mr Cameron would be likely to vote in favour of him continuing.

"It would seem churlish to vote him down," one source said, adding that possible
dissenters may have been given government jobs by then and would probably vote
with the Prime Minister. Labour members are likely to continue to support him.

If Mr Bercow fails to be re-elected and a Speaker contest begins, Sir Menzies
Campbell, the former Liberal Democrat leader, and Edward Leigh, former chairman
of the Public Accounts Committee, could stand.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lib Dem and Conservative politicians should be wary of the pitfalls of coalition
governments;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 920 words


SIR - Now that a historic deal has been concluded between the Tories and the Lib
Dems (report, May 12), memories of the 1931 National Government have come
flooding back to me.

Within months, the Liberal Party split in half and the followers of Sir John
Simon remained on the government benches, and those of Sir Herbert Samuel
crossed the floor and sat on the Opposition benches. Sir John Simon and his
followers became National Liberals.

It will be interesting to see how the two united parties deal with by-elections.
In 1932, the traditional Liberal seat of North Cornwall became vacant, and the
National Government candidate was opposed by Sir Francis Acland, as an
Independent Liberal candidate, who won the seat.

Coalition has bitter memories for Liberals, and could well split the party once
again.

Terry Farmer Sherborne, Dorset SIR - In Michael Portillo's eager expectation of
the demise of his old foe the "Tory party Right" (Comment, May 8), he forgets
his history.

This is particularly regrettable in an erstwhile pupil of that sage of the Tory
Right, Maurice Cowling, whose work on Disraeli's 1867 Reform Act shows the
pitfalls for Conservative leaders who forsake their supporters in pursuit of a
Liberal coalition.

By proposing electoral reform, Disraeli alienated his backbenchers, putting
himself at the mercy of the Liberal Party. The result: Disraeli's attempts at
moderate reform were washed away in a flood of radical amendments, and the
Tories went down to a landslide election defeat the following year.

James Kirby Balliol College, Oxford SIR - The father of a close friend has a few
months to live, after which his will provides for his estate to be divided
between three siblings. It is not a large estate - less than £1million.

Nick Clegg's posturing will cost him and his siblings £250,000 which, had David
Cameron proceeded with a minority government, might have put to better use
economically than paying off Gordon Brown's debts, or supporting the euro.
Jeremy M.J. Havard London SW3 SIR - Compromise will undoubtedly be required
aplenty on both sides to maintain this promising concordat between the
Conservatives and the Lib Dems. However, the top priority is urgent, drastic
surgery on public expenditure to curb our vast, spiralling debt burden.

A significant start could be made by cancelling Alistair Darling's acceptance of
a £13billion liability to prop up the euro, and immediate suspension of the
billions we pay annually to the EU.

Charity should begin at home and it is nonsensical to pour billions into foreign
coffers at the expense of our own citizens' wellbeing.

John Gouriet Dilton Marsh, Wiltshire SIR - Fifty-seven seats, a net loss of five
seats, leading to five Cabinet positions including a Deputy Prime Minister. Talk
about disproportional representation. Daniel Jeory Chester SIR - Are David
Cameron and Nick Clegg morphing into Ant and Dec? Henry Page Newhaven, East
Sussex SIR - Having heard the word progressive more often in the past 10 days
than in any time during my lifetime, I decided to look the word up in my
dictionary.

Progressive: proceeding gradually in stages; a progressive decline in
popularity; (of a disease or ailment) increasing in severity: (of tax)
increasing as a proportion of the sum taxed as that sum increases. Now
everything is clear. Fenella Ignatiev Deal, Kent SIR - For the first time in
years, we have a Government which represents the majority: 59 per cent.

Harvey Griffiths Fareham, Hampshire SIR - I am sure the husbands and fathers in
Britain's Armed Forces serving in the war zone will be delighted to know that
Gordon Brown considers the job of prime minister less important than his job as
a husband and father.

He is the one who has asked them to place their duty to their country above
their families.

Philip H. Adwick Caunton, Nottinghamshire SIR - During the coalition talks,
Oliver Letwin was the only one carrying files each day. Where were George
Osborne's and William Hague's files? Samir Shah Edgware, Middlesex SIR - In
cuddling up to the Lib Dems, the Tories seem to have forgotten that the "Dem"
half is Old Labour.

Heaven help them (and us) for their short memories.

Jim Halsey Camberley, Surrey SIR - A new government. Phew!

Antony I. Woodward Beaconsfield, Buckinghamshire SIR - Voters who supported the
most anti-Europe party (Ukip) have handed power to the most pro-Europe party
(Lib Dems). Paul Ballard-Whyte Oxford SIR - Last week, my wife voted
Conservative and I, Liberal Democrat. On Tuesday night, we drank a toast to the
success of the Con/Lib Dem coalition. Alan Fotheringham Pontesbury, Shropshire
SIR - A small crowd of us gathered at the gates of Buckingham Palace to witness
the handover of power - the change in the weather provided the biggest
amusement.

When Gordon Brown was seeing the Queen, the sky was dark and brooding. After he
left, and as David Cameron made his way to the palace, the sky began to clear in
the distance, and a large rainbow appeared over Whitehall.

By the time Cameron left, the sky was almost completely blue.

John Shields London SW1 SIR - I can never be sure of having time to do the
cryptic crossword every day, so I cut them out and keep them.

Yesterday morning, I was doing crossword number 26,225 (April 27). The compiler
clearly has the gift of prophecy.

The first clue I saw was 11 across: "Brief Conservative following terrible
strain"; 23 across: "Tip Cameron somehow to get power". But let us hope we don't
end up with 8 down: "Wet politician in control". Catriona Picken London SE17

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Benjamin Disraeli lost the election in 1868 after adopting electoral
reform
BRIDGEMAN ART LIBRARY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

In brief Day One of the Con-Lib Dem coalition;
The new Goverment

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 562 words


Unemployment has risen to a 15-year high, with adults of "breadwinning age" the
hardest hit.

The number of jobless rose by 53,000 to 2.51million during the three months to
March, according to figures from the Office for National Statistics. During that
period, 85,000 people in the 35 to 49 age group left the workforce, a drop of
0.8 per cent, compared with a 0.3 per cent fall across all age groups.

Nicolas Sarkozy holds out little hope of improving French relations with Britain
under the coalition government.

A senior member of his centre-Right party told The Daily Telegraph: "Mr Sarkozy
relies on building close ties to forge political partnerships.

"This he tried to do with Gordon Brown but the rapprochement didn't really
happen and the chemistry wasn't there.

"He's not even going to bother to try with Cameron."

David Cameron will face his first Europe crisis within days when talks begin
next Thursday on sweeping plans to give Brussels more "surveillance" powers over
national budgets.

The measures, which would allow the EU to assess draft budgets, are regarded by
most European countries as vital to tackling the financial crisis. But Tory
Eurosceptics expect the Prime Minister to uphold a manifesto pledge to claw back
powers from the EU.

Hostilities will resume between the Tories and the Lib Dems at a delayed
election on May 27.

The parties will stage a "full-on fight" in Thirsk and Malton, in North
Yorkshire, which was the only constituency in the country not to hold a poll
last week after the UKIP candidate died during the campaign.

William Hague, the new Foreign Secretary, said yesterday that getting a "grip"
on Britain's military operations in Afghanistan would be his top priority. As he
arrived at the Foreign Office yesterday, Mr Hague said: "One of the first things
I will do when I go through this door is have a briefing on Afghanistan. It is
our most urgent priority here in my work to make sure we have a grip on what is
going on in Afghanistan."

Nick Clegg will take Prime Minister's Questions when David Cameron is away.

This raises the prospect of Mr Clegg defending policies that the Lib Dems had
opposed, such as a cap on immigration.

The Commons' procedures will be modified to take account of the new coalition.

This includes Tory ministers sharing the frontbench with their Lib Dem
colleagues.

Nick Clegg could be given use of the stately ninebedroom home where John
Prescott was photographed playing croquet.

The Lib Dem leader is Deputy Prime Minister in the new coalition Government, a
title last held by the veteran Labour politician. And as Deputy Prime Minister,
Mr Clegg may also make use of Dorneywood, the 200-acre Buckinghamshire estate
beloved of his predecessor.

A local council wrote to a pet pig offering it the chance to register to vote in
last week's election.

The letter was addressed to Blossom Grant at Pig Flats - the animal's former sty
in Uckfield, East Sussex. Due to a Land Registry error the pig receives several
junk letters a month. Blossom's owner, Pauline Grant, 73, said: "She is a very
clever animal but I think politics might be too complicated for her."

David Cameron will use the first month of his premiership to go on a tour of the
capital cities of all the countries he now governs.

He will visit Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to promise that the interests
of the devolved nations will be protected.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

In brief Day One of the Con-Lib Dem coalition;
The new Goverment

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 563 words


Unemployment has risen to a 15-year high, with adults of "breadwinning age" the
hardest hit.

The number of jobless rose by 53,000 to 2.51million during the three months to
March, according to the Office for National Statistics.

The jobless rate in Scotland was higher than the UK as a whole, the figures
revealed. The rate north of the border rose to 8.1 per cent , a percentage point
higher than the UK rate.

Nicolas Sarkozy holds out little hope of improving French relations with Britain
under the coalition government.

A senior member of his centre-Right party told The Daily Telegraph: "Mr Sarkozy
relies on building close ties to forge political partnerships.

"This he tried to do with Gordon Brown but the rapprochement didn't really
happen and the chemistry wasn't there.

"He's not even going to bother to try with Cameron."

David Cameron will face his first Europe crisis within days when talks begin
next Thursday on sweeping plans to give Brussels more "surveillance" powers over
national budgets.

The measures, which would allow the EU to assess draft budgets, are regarded by
most European countries as vital to tackling the financial crisis. But Tory
Eurosceptics expect the Prime Minister to uphold a manifesto pledge to claw back
powers from the EU.

Hostilities will resume between the Tories and the Lib Dems at a delayed
election on May 27.

The parties will stage a "full-on fight" in Thirsk and Malton, in North
Yorkshire, which was the only constituency in the country not to hold a poll
last week after the UKIP candidate died during the campaign.

William Hague, the new Foreign Secretary, said yesterday that getting a "grip"
on Britain's military operations in Afghanistan would be his top priority. As he
arrived at the Foreign Office yesterday, Mr Hague said: "One of the first things
I will do when I go through this door is have a briefing on Afghanistan. It is
our most urgent priority here in my work to make sure we have a grip on what is
going on in Afghanistan."

Nick Clegg will take Prime Minister's Questions when David Cameron is away.

This raises the prospect of Mr Clegg defending policies that the Lib Dems had
opposed, such as a cap on immigration.

The Commons' procedures will be modified to take account of the new coalition.

This includes Tory ministers sharing the frontbench with their Lib Dem
colleagues.

Nick Clegg could be given use of the stately ninebedroom home where John
Prescott was photographed playing croquet.

The Lib Dem leader is Deputy Prime Minister in the new coalition Government, a
title last held by the veteran Labour politician. And as Deputy Prime Minister,
Mr Clegg may also make use of Dorneywood, the 200-acre Buckinghamshire estate
beloved of his predecessor.

A local council wrote to a pet pig offering it the chance to register to vote in
last week's election.

The letter was addressed to Blossom Grant at Pig Flats  the animal's former sty
in Uckfield, East Sussex. Due to a Land Registry error the pig receives several
junk letters a month. Blossom's owner, Pauline Grant, 73, said: "She is a very
clever animal but I think politics might be too complicated for her."

David Cameron will use the first month of his premiership to go on a tour of the
capital cities of all the countries he now governs.

He will visit Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland to promise that the interests
of the devolved nations will be protected.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Top TV show tells Spaniards how to sponge off Britain

BYLINE: Stephen Drill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 553 words


THE truth about Britain's softtouch benefits system has been exposed by a
Spanish student who bragged how easy it is for European migrants to claim
hand-outs.

Jazmin Ortega is believed to have claimed benefits after arriving in the UK and
almost immediately losing her job.

Laughing, she told a prime-time Spanish TV show that she hardly paid anything
towards the rent of her house in Edinburgh.

"This house costs £550. I pay £60 because I'm unemployed and people who are
unemployed here have help with their rent," she said.

Asked by the interviewer exactly who qualified for these benefits, Jazmin
replied: "Those who've worked for at least a day in the UK.

"You receive £64 a week and then you have the right to housing bene-fit, which I
get, which is a help towards a large part of the rent, if not 100 per cent."

Last night there was growing anger in Britain over the programme which showed
how easy it was to exploit Britain's benefits system.

Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Not only is this woman
cashing in so brazenly at taxpayers' expense, she thinks it's fine to brag about
it on TV.

"Britain's system should not be so much weaker than Spain's. It is high time we
toughened up."

Paul Nuttall, of the UK Independence Party, said: "What idiot civil servant
agreed to a rule that means incomers only have to work one day before being
entitled to benefits, but we have to work for more than a year before we can
claim in Spain?" Miss Ortega, 29, also told the show, called Espanoles En El
Mundo - Spaniards Around The World - about what she said was the low cost of
food and alcohol in pubs.

Of her Edinburgh home she said: "It's very nice. It's in the city centre and I
pay next to nothing."

Since the show was broadcast, a Spanish expat website has been flooded with
people wanting to find out about Britain's benefits loopholes.

One contributor wrote that they had seen groups of Spaniards lining up to claim
benefits in the UK.

The writer went on to say most were recently arrived from Spain and were there
to find out how to ask for money. They did not have the slightest intention of
working. All they wanted was to claim unemployment benefit.

Spain has the worst unemployment in Europe with nearly five million - more than
20 per cent of the population - out of work. Miss Ortega said that she moved to
Edinburgh a year ago to study English but was shown how to use the benefits
system by a contact who, the programme said, had helped thousands of other
Spaniards who had come to Britain.

The contact, a woman known only as Melany, said: "When you get here you need a
National Insurance number. Without it, you can't ask for any state benefits.

"I think they come from Spain with my telephone number already in their pocket.
It's amazing." Last night the Department of Work and Pensions said unemployed
Spaniards, French and Germans had the right to claim benefits in the UK.

In Spain, however, foreigners can claim benefits only after working there for
more than a year and can receive at least £415 a month for between 120 and 720
days, depending on how long they paid into the system before losing their job.

In Germany, foreign EU nationals have to work for a year before they can claim,
and then receive benefits for only six months. In France, foreigners must have
worked for six months full-time.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jazmin in a pub as she tells viewers how easy it is to get benefits
here

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

New government: The parties: 'I'm with an old boy who used to live round here -
Guy Fawkes': The view from Thirsk and Malton

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 707 words


There could be no better place to map the faultlines in Britain's new political
coalition than Thirsk and Malton: amid its ravishing scenery and sleek farms,
the constituency has the most powerful compression tank in the UK.

Built to test locally made sea-floor robots - some of which are currently
helping BP in the Gulf of Mexico - the multimillion-pound vessel at
Kirkbymoorside could subject Clegg's and Cameron's coalition to pressures equal
to those at 2,000 metres under the sea.

Thirsk and Malton's poll, delayed until 27 May after the death of the Ukip
candidate John Boakes last month, is a heaven-sent chance for politicians to
beat the drum for manufacturing.

Kevin Taylor, managing director of manufacturer Perry Slingsby Systems, said:
"We would welcome politicians coming to see us. It would be good to show them
what we do and what we need. It isn't much, but we could do with incentives for
more training, and more help for schools, because that's where we get our
apprentices."

It would take an Icelandic volcano, however, to dislodge the Conservatives' Anne
McIntosh, notwithstanding serious local party splits in Malton when she moved in
from the former Vale of York seat, on the Thirsk side of the new constituency.

Her notional majority, based on 2005 figures, is 14,687 over Labour, or 27%. But
that theoretical second place is a big plus for Jonathan Roberts: born and
raised in Thirsk, he has dug in locally after serving as a Labour member of
Thirsk's town council while travelling widely in his job promoting Britain's
merchant fleet and ports at the Chamber of Shipping.

The poll will have a greater significance than usual. Westminster will see it as
a way of testing the public mood towards the new coalition government, as the
Tories and Liberal Democrats will be fighting against each other.

The issues on the ground are those tormenting the Treasury. Taylor says his firm
is looking for anything that encourages "stable markets worldwide, not peaks and
troughs", adding: "The order book is good now, but the last 18 months have been
very difficult."

Up the road at Kirkbymoorside's market, wish lists are less specific and
politicians still very much on probation after the expenses scandal. William
Smith, a retired teacher settled in the King's Head with his lunchtime pint,
says: "I'm with an old boy who used to live round here - name of Guy Fawkes."

But coalitions don't alarm him. Now 80, he remembers Churchill's wartime
ministry, which saw Liberals in the Cabinet for the last time before today. "I'd
like to see a coalition of all the parties like that, not just two," he says.
"That's what we had then, and it worked."

At the open-air fruit-and-veg market, Helen Gardiner, who recently retired as a
healthcare assistant, says: "I'm happy with what we've got, for now. But I think
that the Liberal Democrats have got a disproportionate amount of influence
compared to their vote."

Everyone welcomes the fact that the partners are going to be vying with one
another on their doorsteps for the next two weeks, going public with the
arguments that have occupied them since Thursday behind closed doors.

Roberts says: "We are second here, and now we can claim to be the only real
opposition. The coalition leaves Labour as the one truly progressive party left
in mainstream politics."

The Lib Dems' Howard Keel aims to counter this with the liveliest campaign he
can mount against his party's Westminster partners. "Anger is an energy," he
says, promising "tooth-and-nail campaigning" to show that his party is nobody's
lapdog. "Winning here would strengthen the Liberal Democrats' hand and restrain
the Conservatives, just as we have already got them to ditch tax breaks for the
super rich and take on our new threshold to help the lower paid."

Ukip's Toby Horton also hopes to benefit from Tory resentment at the scale of
concessions Cameron has made to Clegg. At the moment, two weeks before the poll,
voters seem inclined to give the new deal time on probation. But then, even one
week is a long time in politics.

Captions:

'Anger is an energy'

The Liberal Democrat candidate for Thirsk and Malton, Howard Keel, says his
campaign aims include restraining the Conservatives Photograph: Christopher
Thomond for the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 28, 2010 Friday



CORRECTION: *The Liberal Democrats' candidate in the parliamentary election
being held in Thirsk and Malton is Howard Keal, not Keel as we styled him (Big
beasts are on the loose in pastures new, 27 May, page 21; The view from Thirsk
and Malton, 13 May, page 10).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                 1 Star Edition

LATE POLL THE FIRST BIG TEST FOR NEW TEAM;
ELECTION

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 130 words


THE ConDem coalition will face its first trial when a Parliamentary election is
held at the end of the month.

Voters go to the polls in Thirsk and Malton, North Yorkshire, on May 27. The
contest was delayed by the death of UKIP candidate John Boakes.

Lib Dem Howard Keal has promised a "full-on fight" with Tory Anne McIntosh - and
has even called on Labour supporters to "vote tactically" to keep her out.

Mr Keal, leader of the Lib Dem group on Ryedale council, said: "It's a full-on
fight, there's no question about it. I never expected anything else than we
would fight the by-election.

"I hope disgruntled Conservatives will lend me their vote and Labour supporters
will vote tactically."

The Labour candidate Jonathan Roberts has accused Mr Keal's party of "propping
up the Tories".

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLEDGE Lib Dem Howard Keal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

QUOTE OF THE ELECTION HAS TO [...]

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 35 words


QUOTE of the Election has to be this gem from UKIP leader Nigel Farage to an
aide who was trying to rescue him from his crashed plane: "Get me out of this
f****** thing." Sums up his policy on Europe perfectly.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday

Feature - Farage's election farrago;
Jim Jepps casts a sidelong look at the former Ukip leader's electoral campaign

BYLINE: Jim Jepps

LENGTH: 925 words


There's nothing an attention-seeker hates more than being ignored. So by this
measure the UK Independence Party has had a very bad election. It's almost as if
it doesn't exist.

From a democratic point of view, that's slightly unjust because almost a million
people voted for Ukip, far outstripping the BNP, the Greens and Esther Rantzen
put together - who've all had far more election coverage.

Never let it be said that we would let a minor injustice go unnoticed, so it's
time to take a look at the party with the fourth-largest vote share in the
country.

First of all it's worth giving Ukip a vote of thanks. Its vote share was more
than the difference between the Tories winning or holding seats in 20
constituencies, including helping Labour's Ed Balls keep his seat. With 20 more
MPs - and the other parties having 20 less - the post-election fallout would
have made things far, far easier for the Conservatives.

Nigel Farage told the press that he had offered to stand down Ukip candidates in
areas where they might damage Conservatives who could win in exchange for a
referendum on leaving the EU. Happily David Cameron turned him down and we ended
up with fewer Tory MPs than we might otherwise have done.

Next we must all say a little prayer of thanks that Farage survived his plane
crash relatively unscathed. One dead Ukip candidate during the campaign is
enough - John Boakes died after nominations had closed.

Rumours that the light plane that was towing a Ukip banner on election day was
brought down by a dodgy right wing are entirely unfounded, as are the myths that
the only manoeuvre the Ukip plane was capable of was the loop the loop.

I did wonder if the party's views on "health and safety gone mad" and this
accident may be connected, although perhaps more likely is its complete
rejection of scientific evidence - which could well lead to mid-air blunders.

The Guardian did a comprehensive analysis of all the parties' science policies
and Ukip really did fail to take off as it denied the facts of climate change in
the most extraordinary way, came out with bizarre statements on homeopathy and
led attacks on the Met Office, of all things.

You're left with the impression that Ukip science policy is simply a
comprehensive list of all current conspiracy theories.

Farage had hoped that by targeting metrosexual, "liberal" Tory speaker John
Bercow in Buckinghamshire he'd be able to hoover up the bigot vote and sail into
Parliament.

Sadly for him there were a number of others with the same idea and the top six
places, including the winner Bercow, were taken by different varieties of
right-wing contender. Remind me not to go there on holiday.

Farage didn't even come second, despite the large financial resources poured
into the seat as ex-Tory MEP John Stevens managed a full-on 20 per cent of the
vote.

Stevens's campaign was probably helped by his constant companion Flipper the
Dolphin (presumably a reference to the expenses scandal) who, dressed as a
dolphin, doggedly pursued Bercow wherever he went.

No wonder Farage took to the air, sick of being upstaged by a dolphin.

Mind you, Ukip doesn't seem to have got quite how this democracy thing works
because although Bercow got almost 50 per cent of the vote and its candidate
came third (despite no Labour or Lib Dem) Ukip headlined its press release
"Bercow hammered in Buckingham." Perhaps they meant that he'd had one too many
celebratory drinks.

Farage had stood down as Ukip leader in order to concentrate on the election
campaign, a decision many Ukip members came to regret as new leader Lord Pearson
of Rannock, who is possibly the poshest man alive, lacked even Farage's "common
touch."

Pearson, who was the lord responsible for inviting far-right Dutch politician
Geert Wilders to screen his film at the House of Lords in 2009, managed to
enrage Ukip members by calling on them to vote Tory, even though Ukip was
standing in almost every constituency across the country.

Pearson wrote to several media outlets saying that people should vote for rival
candidates in various constituencies. You wouldn't find Labour ministers doing
that sort of thing, would you?

In fairness though, Norman Tebbitt did all but endorse Farage against Bercow in
a kind of quid pro quo loony mutual endorsement arrangement. Much good that it
did either side.

Pearson even actively campaigned on the streets for one Conservative candidate,
so it will not surprise readers to learn that, like in the BNP, the
post-election Ukip bloodletting has begun.

Ukip's campaign included explicitly racist anti-immigration billboards. It
really takes something to outflank the BNP on racism, but at least they provided
graffiti artists some valuable space to display their work.

Added to inflammatory remarks about banning the burka in public and private
places, Ukip managed to cover pretty much every reactionary base you could think
of.

There's always been an element of shock-jock right-wing populism to Ukip, so the
burka comments fit snugly into that anti-immigrant, anti-PC strain of thought -
although when one Norwich candidate, Glenn Tingle, made the thoughtful foreign
policy suggestion that we should "blow up Iran" before making derogatory remarks
about the Afghan people this may have been a step too far even for Ukip.

Something that will not have pleased the party was that the Daily Mail managed
to attack Ukip - for being too pro-Europe. That's one of those insults that must
have been calculated to infuriate Ukip candidates into some sort of embolism.
Long may the right-wing infighting continue.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Two heads aren't better than None

BYLINE: BILL Leckie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 840 words


SO there they stood on the front step, burrowing their way into Downing Street
like some bug-eyed, two-headed parasite.

Tory Boy and the Lib Dummy.

Two men who can't stand the sight of each other, forcing fake smiles as they
pretend to be up to running a country that hasn't asked them to.

Aw, bless... here come their crawly little larvae, slithering under the door one
by one like an infestation of your very soul.

Not quite a coalition of the damned, but of the damn creepy at very least. It's
James Blunt joining Black Sabbath. It's Marmite with added spinach. Clegg having
Cameron by the short 'uns is as ridiculous as Louis Walsh being in charge of The
X Factor.

Anyone else feel like taking a long, hot bath in Dettol? I mean, they say that
in the aftermath of a nuclear war, the living will envy the dead.

Well, surely after this horrible, sludgey, insincere, unworkable outcome, it's
the case that those who voted envy those who didn't.

Staggering Because at least those who didn't haven't been left wondering why the
hell they did.

In fact, let's take this one a step further. And ask whether this morning, those
who didn't might actually be the ones with the most right to be running Britain.

Yes, the Tories and the Lib Dummies can claim a majority. But their 59.49 per
cent share of the vote is only 59.49 per cent of the 65.1 per cent who turned
out. Which means that two out of three who were registered didn't back them.

The figures, in fact, are staggering. The UK electorate is 44,400,000, give or
take a few dozen.

The turnout on the night was 29,653,638, meaning that around about 14.75million
of us didn't vote.

That's nearly four million more than the 10,706,647 who gave their X to the
Tories. It's less than a million fewer than Labour (8,604,358) and the Lib
Dummies (6,827,938) pulled between them.

In fact, if you took all the Tory votes and added them to those of UKIP, the
BNP, the SNP, the Greens, Sinn Fein, the DUP, Plaid Cymru, the SDLP, Alliance,
Respect, The Health Concern Party, The Blaenau Gwent People's Voice and all
those hundreds of Independents, the pile STILL wouldn't match the numbers who
stayed away.

If that's not enough to ram home the full extent of the monumental snub handed
to our politicians and the system they represent, you're plainly very hard to
impress.

So as a clincher, ask yourself: How huge an outcry would there be if not a
single soul in the whole of Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland, Greater
Manchester, Tyne & Wear, and Birmingham went to the polls? Very huge, is the
answer.

So, I ask again: Why aren't we preparing for life under the None Of The Above
Party? And before you start tut-tutting about your contempt for those who didn't
go to the polls, how it's a sad dereliction of democratic duty, a slap in the
face to those who fought for freedom and blah blahdy blah? Don't. Because that's
a mindset that harks back to the days when politicians talked down to us as the
uneducated masses and dismissed stay-aways as dithering don't knows who'd let
the nation down.

While today, the truth is that most of that 14.75m - the combined population of
Sweden and Finland - vote with their feet because they KNOW they don't know and
refuse to give their backing to someone they don't believe in just so they can
look the other 29.6m in the eye.

And why SHOULD they? What's the incentive? Why should anyone be handed a list of
Grey Labour Man, Grey Tory Man, Grey Lib Dummy, Grey Nat, Blackshirted BNPig and
Boggle-Eyed Loony Standing At The Back In A Silly Hat and feel compelled to
propel them towards a £65,000-a-year job they've done nothing to earn? Shrug
Surely that's not what our forefathers fought for? For me, it takes more
strength of conviction to say b***ocks to the lot of them than to shrug and sigh
and stick a pin on a sheet of paper and convince yourself you've made a
difference.

It takes a whole lot more conviction to fly in the face of the electoral norm
than it did for Cameron and Clegg to slaughter each other in those TV debates,
then to cuddle in the hope we don't remember how irreconcilable they've told us
their differences are.

It takes more bottle to hold your corner in an argument with those who voted
than it did for Labour to hang about waiting for sloppy seconds if the ConLib
talks broke down rather than admitting they'd got humped.

Plus, I can absolutely guarantee that if this God-awful coalition collapses in
six months and the None Of The Above Party contest the re-run, they alone would
be honest and true to their promises.

They'll never chap your door while you're having your tea, because they'll be
having theirs too.

In fact, they'll not ask for money to pay for their campaign, because by their
very nature they won't need candidates.

This, of course, also means you won't end up hating the new PM, because once we
back None Of The Above there won't BE one and we can all just agree how to run
the country over a civilised pint.

But best of all, they wouldn't cost the nation a penny in expenses.

Because they've only got one home. And they stay in it.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 13, 2010 Thursday 9:47 PM GMT

I'm glad Clegg has persuaded Dave to reduce tax for low earners. But other
policies spell trouble

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 861 words


As I watched the al fresco press conference in the rose garden at Number 10, I
could not help wondering if the two great friends might one day find themselves
plucking different colour roses before going back to war.Clegg would once again
have the best of that,as I think yellow roses do look rather better than blue
ones.It was very well managed, although I thought the word "new" or even "NEW!"
was just a touch over-used. After all, most shoppers know it means either a
bigger packet with less in it, or a smarter packet of a cheaper product.

Towards the end, my attention lapsed and I fell to wondering what the Prime
Minister would have been saying about the exciting prospects of two-party
government with his new Lib Dem colleagues had he won another 25 or 50 seats.

Well, it was still very new and exciting to see the first meeting of
thecoalition Cabinet meeting. I did wonder where on earth some of those chaps
went to school if they did not know that it is appallingly bad manners to use
mobile phones at any meeting, let alone at the Cabinet.

Beyond all those well staged photo-opportunities, it is more interesting to read
theintentions of the coalition as set out in"The Agreement".It is rather longer
that Blair's famous NuLab pledge card, but I think it may be quoted just as
often in the future.To be fair, there is more in it with which I agree than
disagree.I am particularly pleased that Mr Cameron has accepted Mr Clegg's view
on the need to reduce income tax on low earners to help get them out of the
welfare poverty trap. I thinkthat I would support the Lib Dem view on separating
retail and investment banking, so a commission to look at that seems a good
idea.I am glad that the Tory proposal for free schools is likely to go ahead
and, subject to affordability, I have long advocated higher spending per head on
pupils in deprived areas rather than in places like Notting Hill, and again I am
pleased to see that in The Agreement.

I will wait to see what comes of the good intentions on tackling first the
annual budget deficit and then the debt mountain, and indeed of what smells like
the bad intentions on defence.On the other hand, I can see very little good
coming out of putting Mr Huhne in charge of all those "green" issues. It seems
to me that the chances of the lights going out in 10 years' time have increased
sharply this week, as the Lib Dems have been given carte blanche to spike the
nuclear power programme. We can only hope that the Labour Party will come to the
rescue when it comes to votes in the Commons.

As for the Heathrow runway, the prospects of Paris, Amsterdam and other
continental airports taking business from our airports were bad enough already
as BA continues to inflict self harm, but theyare now quite alarming. Preventing
passengers from flying toLondon will not prevent many of them from flying. They
will just fly to continental airports on continental airlines instead.

We will have to see what size the non-EU immigration cap will be.I fancy it will
be big enough to be pulled over the electors' eyes.As for this talk of "children
being no longer detained for immigration purposes", that is nonsense.No one,
neither child nor adult, is "detained".They are free to go wherever they please,
whenever they please, except into this country.As for policy on the EU, that
seems to have been largely fudged away.

All in all, The Agreementis a curate's egg, but if were the curate I think I
would leave a good deal of it on the plate.

As ever, I found the comments on my last blog post interesting. I was delighted
to find some 35 newcomers to this site and fascinated that they almost all
posted variations on the same theme.Several, in very similar terms, claimed that
had always, until now, admired and agreed with me, but no more because I had
failed to support the new, new, non-confrontational new politics. Others simply
said I was old (how very ageist of them) and therefore should shut up or, having
been associated with the glory years when the Tory Party polled 30 per centmore
votes than it did last week, knew nothing of the new, new, new, politics. In his
post,'jackfrost' wondered who these people are.So do I. I do not think they were
organised by Tory HQ, but unlike the critics I have come to know so well on this
site, where I have made far stronger criticism of my own Party than I did on
Tuesday, they do seem to have grown like mushrooms. Never mind, the bean
counters will have noted the upsurge in hits on my blog, and that can do nothing
but good for me.Do keep posting, but do let's have a bit more variety in how you
describe me as an anachronism.

As 'drover' pointed out, there was an inconsistency in many of these comments
which declared me to be 'out of touch' but to have influenced the votes of a
million or so electors.I was also grateful to 'Hesspartacus' for posting the BBC
polls on the views of the electors on our relations with the EU.

No, they did not vote UKIP - despite agreeing with UKIP. Perhaps that was
because they took my advice that the priority was to get rid of NuLab. But if I
were aEurophile I would think again before going for AV.

As ever, thank you for your posts.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 13, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I loathe football now. But since the World Cup's on ... Antonia Senior

BYLINE: Antonia Senior

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 447 words


The first qualm came at Stamford Bridge, when I saw the crowd physically bowing
to Roman Abramovich. That such a man could buy quasi-divine homage was
revolting. But the Damascene moment came in the Cock Tavern, home of Glasgow
Rangers' London supporters. The floor was slick with lager, sweat hummed in the
air above the packed crowd. The Old Firm match was under way, and just like
that, I fell out of love with football.

All the years of watching and reading about the game. The trips to Hillsborough
with my Dad. The Sheffield Wednesday shirt with Chris Waddle's name on it that I
wore for luck during all my school exams. The tears and the tension and those
rare, transporting moments of joy. All rendered pointless in one moment.

It was the ugliness of it all that did for me. The snarling and the viciousness.
The stupid songs about Bobby Sands's mother, and the ridiculous King Billy
paraphernalia. Most of all it was the stirring of my Irish Catholic roots, and
an answering hatred for these, the enemy, rising in me like bile. This was
beyond tribal, beyond banter. And then, what? Shame and disgust. I walked out,
sloughing off my football passion like a dead, nylon, skin.

It is a game corrupted by obscene money, played by vile young men who spend
their down-time roasting sad wannabe WAGs. The ticket prices are ridiculous, the
marketing of merchandise relentless, yet the fans keep on paying just so some
misogynistic creep can buy another Porsche. What's in it for the fans? The
emotional ride. But alongside the joy and the pain come all the uglier bits:
hatred and viciousness and jealousy.

And here comes the World Cup. The first since my conversion, the first time the
announcement of the England squad has left me cold and ignorant, rather than
voluble and opinionated. Why should I support England anyway, with my half
Irish, part Welsh blood? Nationalism is such an incoherent ideology; how do you
define a nation - by its language, its culture, its genes? No definition makes
sense. An urban liberal, I have more in common with a similar Parisian than
with, for example, a rural UKIP voter.

Sport is supposed to transcend logic, create national fervour and inculcate a
bonding tribalism. It's clearly hokum. And yet, how I miss it at World Cup time.
I hate not having a view on the squad. I miss finger-pointing, number-crunching,
beery debates about tactics and performance. I want to hitch a lift on the
England rollercoaster, and feel the visceral terror of penalties.

Football may be ugly and intellectually suspect. But maybe it's time to stop
thinking about it so much, and just start cheering. Eng-er-land!

It's played by vile young men who roast sad wannabe WAGs

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

THE RICHARD LITTLEJOHN COLUMN

LENGTH: 1518 words


SO NORMAN BROWN IS STILL PRESIDENT?

TIME ONCE AGAIN TO TUNE IN TO EYEWITNESS NEWS, PALM BEACH, FOR AN AMERICAN
PERSPECTIVE ON THE GENERAL ELECTION.

GOOD morning, America, how are you? This is your favourite son, Chad hanging,
reporting. Let's cross live to London, englandland, where our special
correspondent Brit Limey has been following developments.

Good morning, Chad. I'm standing in historic Piccadilly Square, in downtown
London, where people are coming to terms with the results of the election.

So who is the new president of englandland, Brit?

President Norman Brown, Chad. I thought he was the old president. He is, Chad.

So President Brown won the election. No, Chad, he lost the election. President
Brown's Labour Party came second, two million votes behind the Conservatives.

So the Conservatives won? No, they lost, too. They didn't get enough seats in
the House of Lords to form a majority government.

So President Brown got more seats, even though he got fewer votes.

Negatory, Chad. President Brown got 60 fewer seats than the Conservatives.

Then why is he still President? He's holed up in Number 10 Downing Street, where
the Queen lives, and refuses to come out.

Can he do that? Apparently so, Chad. He can carry on being President until
someone else forms a government.

What happens now?

Well, Chad, it's up to the Liberal Democrats to decide who becomes President.

I didn't realise the Democrats were standing in englandland. Does that mean
President obama could become president of englandland?

No, Chad. Different party. They're led by a guy called Clegg, who won one of the
TV debates. For a while he was the new Susan Boyle.

They're a new party, right? No, they're an old party. Even older than the
Conservatives and Labour.

So the Liberal Democrats won the election?

No, they lost, too. They only got 57 seats, which is fewer than they got at the
last election in 2005. how come they get to choose the president, then?

Because they came third. So this guy Clegg could become president?

No chance, Brit, but he could become Vice President or Homeland Security
Secretary. how so?

He's talking to the Conservatives about forming a coalition.

And where does that leave President Norman Brown?

Clegg's talking to Labour about forming a coalition, too.

If Clegg decides to go with Labour, does that mean Norman Brown could stay on as
president?

Not necessarily, Brit. Labour and the Liberal Democrats still wouldn't have
enough seats to command a majority. And Clegg says he wouldn't work under
President Brown, so Labour would have to choose a new president.

But that would mean that the new president hadn't been elected by anyone.

That's the way it works in Englandland. President Norman Brown wasn't elected by
anyone, either.

Tell me more about this Clegg guy, Chad.

Well, Brit, he looks like Piers Morgan, from America's Got Talent, he supports
illegal immigration and thinks Englandland should be governed by Europe.

And what do the people of englandland think about that?

They hate the idea, Brit, which is why the Liberal Democrats came a poor third
in this election.

Yet Clegg still gets to choose the president?

That's right, Chad. Isn't that like letting the Tea Party pick the president of
the USA?

Not really, Chad. The Tea Party is more popular than the Lib Dems and contains
fewer wacko nutjobs.

So what happens now? Clegg could still do a deal with the Conservatives, which
would mean a man called Call Me Dave becomes president, even though he didn't
win enough seats, either.

Can they do that? I guess so, Chad. During the election, Clegg promised a more
open, accountable, honest form of government. It's the 'new politics'.

Run that by me again, Brit. So under this new, open and more honest politics,
the politicians pick the president without asking the voters?

That's a big Ten-four, Chad. All the negotiations are being conducted in secret.

Why don't they just hold another election, Brit?

Because the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats haven't got any money to
fight another election, Chad. The biggest Lib Dem donor is a convicted fraudster
who is on the run from the police.

Did they give the money back? Of course not, Chad. They kept it, arguing that it
was the only way they could compete with Labour, who are bankrolled by the
unions, and the Conservatives, who are owned by someone called Lord Paddy
Ashcroft, who lives in a banana republic called Belisha. englandland sounds more
like a banana republic than a mature democracy.

Funny you say that, Chad. There was chaos when the polling stations shut before
everyone had voted.

You're kidding me. I wish I was, Chad. There are also 20 separate police
inquiries into voting irregularities, including postal vote fraud. The election
has been widely condemned by international observers from as far afield as
Kenya, Rwanda and Bangladesh. It looks as if it may have to be rerun in some
areas.

And these are the guys who told us we didn't know how to run an election in
Florida.

That's right, Chad. You couldn't make it up.

Given that the tv debates turned this election into a glorified version of the X
Factor, it is perhaps fitting that the country may soon be run by a political
double act.

From a distance, you can't tell Cameron and Clegg apart. they even look like
members of a boy band -- Westminster's answer to Jedward.

HAVING BLIND FAITH IN THIS LOT CAN ONLY END IN TEARS

The BBC and the Guardianistas, in their desperation to stop the Tories forming a
government, have taken to peddling the idea that Britain is a 'progressive'
country.

If I hear anyone else using this fatuous expression, I'll scream. The same goes
for 'balanced' parliament.

The way in which the overwhelming majority of voters clung to Labour and the
Tories, despite the siren call of the Lib Dems, proved that this is a small 'c'
conservative nation, suspicious of change.

Whenever I hear the word 'progressive', I think of progrock bands such as Soft
Machine and emerson, Lake & Palmer -- all 20-minute drum solos and tedious
concept albums.

Coalition government is a supergroup for the 21st century. Like Blind Faith, it
won't last.

I give it about five minutes before it all falls apart over 'musical
differences'.

Despite the BBC predicting it as a Lib Dem gain, Conservative Richard Harrington
won Watford from Labour.

Reading the literature prepared for all new Mps, he discovered that before he
takes his seat he is required to produce his passport and a utility bill as
proof of identity.

Given that Harrington is 6ft 5in tall and weighs about 25 stone, i can't imagine
that there will be any confusion about his identity in future -- unless they
manage to mix him up with eric pickles or Bunter soames.

VOTE NO GET YES

AFTER I wrote last week that a vote for UKIP on Thursday was a wasted vote, I
heard from a number of disgruntled readers. even though I agreed with most of
UKIP's manifesto, and voted for them in the european elections, there was never
any chance of them winning a General election.

We have learned subsequently that those who voted for UKIP helped to deprive the
Conservatives of an overall majority and managed to keep the likes of expenses
baron ed Balls in the Commons.

The effect was to hand the balance of power to the eurofanatical Lib Dems, a
party diametrically opposed to everything UKIP believes in.

I've never subscribed to the cynical view that a stand on principle is the last
stand of an idiot, but if ever there was a case of 'be careful what you wish
for', this was it.

THE Cuprinol Kid, Peter Hain, made a last-ditch plea for Nick Clegg to reach a
deal with Labour. Presumably, this was on the grounds that Hain, too, is orange.

AND YET AGAIN, LEMSIP IS GIVEN THE ELBOW

ALonG with esther Rantzen losing her deposit, the highlight of this election had
to be the defenestration of Lembit opik. two years ago, he was trashed as a
drunken fantasist by his former girlfriend, sian Lloyd. i remarked at the time
that if you dump a weathergirl and run off with a Cheeky Girl, this is the kind
of gratuitous character assassination you can expect.

Hell hath no fury, and all that. shortly afterwards, we heard from Lemsip. He
had no objection to being called pig ignorant and barking mad, or Miss Lloyd
describing how he collapsed in the gutter outside no 10 Downing street.

But he did insist on putting the record straight, stressing that it was Miss
Lloyd who'd dumped him, rather than the other way round. the Cheeky Girl came
later. to prevent any further misunderstanding, i feel i should make it
perfectly clear that Lemsip didn't walk out on the people of Montgomeryshire --
they dumped him.

THERE'S no escape from elf'n'safety, even on election day. Reader Richard Field
tells me that at his polling station, in sittingbourne, Kent, the ballot boxes
were made out of fabric, not metal.

An official was positioned alongside to poke the voting papers into the boxes
with a piece of plastic.

When Richard asked what had happened to the old metal boxes, he was informed
that they had been scrapped on the orders of elf'n'safety because someone could
cut themselves on the sharp edges. i've heard of voting being on a knife edge,
but this is ridiculous.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'It had coagulated into a nasty, acrid blob, studded with rubbery bits of
seafood';
Nobody expects Delia to produce a dish that fans describe as yuck, yuck, yuck'.
But, says Harry Wallop, there's something fishy about her new risotto

BYLINE: Harry Wallop

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 966 words


There is no fury like a Delia acolyte scorned. They are like Lembit Opik told he
is no longer the country's most famous Lib Dem: bitter, resentful and unwilling
to accept reality.

While it is the fallout from the election that has vexed Westminster all week,
it is the curious case of a seafood risotto which has caused an army of Delia
fans to vent their rage.

It is a simple recipe that Delia produced as part of her - and Heston
Blumenthal's - tie-up with Waitrose. Just a simple recipe. But to read the
comments posted on the supermarket's website, you would have thought she had
gone out and torn off the limbs of young children using a grapefruit slicer.

"Incomprehensible how Delia, whose cooking philosophy is so reliable and
straightforward, could have got this one so wrong," posted one.

"I'm a lifelong Delia fan and can't say I've ever had a disaster with any of her
recipes but this was dreadful," was another comment.

"YUCK, YUCK, YUCK," was perhaps the most succinct.

Even Watchdog, the BBC's venerable consumer affairs programme, saw fit to
investigate the recipe last week as though it were some dodgy car dealer or
rogue plumber. Delia's reputation, hard won over four decades of teaching the
country how to cook, was trashed by Anne Robinson, the Queen of Mean, in five
words. "Disgusting. It is so horrible," she said, trying to sneer - though, with
all that Botox it was hard to say if it was a sneer or toothache.

I'm of the view that anything that winds up Anne Robinson has some merit, so it
was time to prepare the infamous dish and see for myself.

The Waitrose scheme with Smith and Blumenthal is very clever. For less than £2
million, the supermarket has secured the services of two of the most soughtafter
cooks in the country for over a year. One of them appeals to foodies who think
they are cooking Michelin-starred food because they wield a blowtorch fuelled by
lighter fluid. The other is a surrogate mother, on whose apron strings we can
tug when our soufflé starts to deflate.

Each week, one or the other demonstrates a new recipe in an elongated television
advert. Pop into Waitrose and all the ingredients can be found gathered together
on a prominent shelf.

As Delia's agent, Deborah Owen, says: "I love the idea that when you are really
busy and you have no idea what to cook for some friends coming round, it is
there for you: all the ingredients and a recipe card."

The scheme, launched in March, has been a huge hit. Despite meticulous planning,
the supermarket is struggling to keep up with demand. Every time a new recipe
appears, sales are boosted by at least £1 million as loyal customers rush out to
try it out.

My local Waitrose had sold out of the key ingredient of the risotto: a £3.99 jar
of Perard Soupe de Poissons, a classic French soup.

According to Steve Field, in charge of the dried goods section at the Holloway
Road branch in north London, the supermarket had sold three years' worth of fish
soup in seven days. Head Office said it had shifted 55,000 of the expensive,
rarefied jars over the last week.

Mr Field pointed me in the direction of the nearest store with the soup in
stock, and warned me, as I headed off, "It's delicious, but potent. Make sure
you open the window."

Hardly encouraging. But cooking the recipe was certainly easy. No simmering of
stocks and browning off of onions, like most risottos.

Delia is back in her cheat-by-usingexpensive-packets mode. The whole jar of soup
is poured on top of the rice, a glug of wine added, and you wait patiently.

At first the smell is fine - after all, Perard is very much the Christine
Lagarde of French soups. Classy.

But as the soup reduces, and gets soaked up by the rice, the concoction becomes
thicker and more pungent. The addition of dry white wine - without burning off
the alcohol - adds an acidic note.

By the time I poured the contents of a frozen pack of mixed seafood into a
frying pan, allowing them to boil in their watery juices, I was starting to have
serious doubts, and my kitchen was smelling like a cheap Marseilles brothel.

Transferring it from frying pan to plate required the skill of a master
bricklayer applying a dollop of mortar to a crumbling wall. I had, according to
Delia, just produced a risotto that should be "yummy".

Well, it's not the worst meal I've ever eaten. A mutton fat soup eaten in Ulan
Ude will always hold that honour. But it is certainly something I'd be ashamed
to offer to any guest.

The lovely fish soup had coagulated into a rather nasty and acrid, thick blob of
rice, studded with rubbery bits of seafood. Risottos should be creamy and,
however strongly flavoured, they should be light on their toes. This had the
finesse of John Prescott negotiating a peace deal with Ukip.

And the dish didn't come cheap. If you bought all the ingredients from scratch,
your pocket would be about £16 lighter - a point made by many of the angry
shoppers posting their views on Waitrose's website.

The supermarket is phlegmatic about the rebellion it has caused, no doubt helped
by an extra £1 million in sales. A spokesman said: "We're very sorry if it's not
to some people's taste. Judging by other comments and the high sales of all the
things that go into the risotto, many customers clearly love it."

Well, most bought the ingredients before they knew what they'd let themselves in
for.

The final verdict came from my wife, who has been recovering from a bout of the
winter vomiting bug, norovirus. "Oh God, what on earth have you been doing," she
exclaimed as she came in the house, before rushing out with her mouth and nose
covered in a handkerchief.

Smith is so powerful that she has made it into various dictionaries. It's just
unfortunate that this time around, "the Delia effect" has caused such a violent
reaction.

out of burning applying crumbling Delia, with

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Recipe for disaster: Harry Wallop is not impressed after trying to cook
the seafood risotto devised by Delia Smith (left) as part of a Waitrose
promotion
CHRISTOPHER PLEDGER; BBC

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

French vote for a total ban on the 'offensive' burkha

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 522 words


FRANCE took a major step to ban the burkha last night when MPs voted on a motion
which declared the veil was "an offence to the nation's values".

A total ban, likely to come into force following a full debate in July, would
make France the second European country to outlaw Muslim full-face veils after
Belgium.

There is also widespread support for a similar ban in the Netherlands while
Switzerland recently outlawed the construction of new minarets for mosques.

But the latest attempt to restrict the veil could face opposition from the
Council of Europe which is against any ban on the burkha or niqab.

The human rights watchdog, based in Strasbourg, announced it will issue a
directive next month that will be binding on all 47 European nations, including
the UK. The Muslim burkha is a full-body covering with a mesh over the face
while the niqab is a full veil with a slit for the eyes.

Jailed

Last night the resolution passed by 434 votes in favour to none against in the
French National Assembly.

Under the proposals, Muslim men who force their wives to wear the veil could be
jailed for up to a year and fined up to £13,000.

Women would be fined £100 because they are often "victims who are not given any
choice," a draft of the law states.

It will create a new offence of "incitement to cover the face for reasons of
gender", stating: "No one may wear in public places clothes that are aimed at
hiding the face".

Offenders would not be "unveiled" in the street but taken to a police station to
be formally identified.

The new legislation would also apply to Muslim tourists, including the thousands
of wealthy Middle Eastern visitors to the French capital. The declaration,
released by the National Assembly, states that "radical practices which violate
the dignity and equality between men and women, such as the wearing of the full
veil, are contrary to the values of the French Republic".

Bernard Accoyer, the French parliament's speaker, said: "The whole of France
will say no to the full veil and will ask that this practice be prohibited on
the territory of the republic. It is an important measure."

Despite the fierce debate only about 2,000 women in France wear full Muslim
dress in public, says the French Interior Ministry.

France, home to Europe's largest Muslim population of five million, passed a law
in 2004 forbidding students and staff from wearing veils and religious symbols
in schools. The proposed ban has prompted warnings of racial tensions and fears
it may violate human rights laws. Al Qaeda has vowed a "dreadful revenge".

Last night there were calls for Britain to follow suit. UKIP MEP Gerard Batten
said: "You have to admire the way that the French have responded to very real
fears amongst their population over security by enacting a ban on facial
coverings."

The Muslim Council of Britain condemned it, saying: "The French government
should be upholding religious freedoms."

Is France right to ban the burkha?

YES: 0901 030 8342 Yes text DXWEDYEs to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8343 No text DXWEDNo to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Women wearing the niqab in France are facing £100 fines from July
Picture: DAMIAN HALLIWELL/INS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

French MPs in unanimous vote to outlaw the burkha

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 677 words


FRANCE took a major step towards banning the burkha last night after MPs voted
to declare the full veil as "an offence to the nation's values".

A total ban, which is likely to come into force following a full debate in July,
would make France the second European country to outlaw Muslim full-face veils
after Belgium.

Last night the French National Assembly unanimously passed the motion with all
434 MPs voting in favour.

There is also widespread support for a similar ban in the Netherlands while
Switzerland recently outlawed the construction of new minarets for mosques.

Jailed But the latest attempt to restrict the garments could face opposition
from the Council of Europe which said it was against any ban on the burkha or
niqab.

The human rights watchdog, based in Strasbourg, said it would issue a directive
next month that will be binding on all 47 European nations, including the UK.

The Muslim burkha is a full-body covering with a mesh over the face, while the
niqab is a full veil with a slit for the eyes.

Under the proposals, Muslim men who force their wives to wear the veil could be
jailed for up to a year and fined up to £13,000. Women would be fined just £100
as they are often "victims who are not given any choice", a draft of the law
states.

The law would create a new offence of "incitement to cover the face for reasons
of gender", adding: "No one may wear in public places clothes that are aimed at
hiding the face."

Offenders would not be "unveiled" in the street but taken to a police station to
be formally identified.

The new legislation would also apply to Muslim tourists, including the thousands
of wealthy Middle Eastern visitors to the French capital every year.

The declaration released by the National Assembly states that "radical practices
which violate the dignity and equality between men and women, such as the
wearing of the full veil, are contrary to the values of the French Republic".

Bernard Accoyer, the French parliament's speaker, said: "The whole of France
will say no to the full veil and will ask that this practice be prohibited on
the territory of the republic. It is an important measure."

Despite the fierce debate, only about 2,000 women in France wear full Muslim
dress in public, the French Interior Ministry said.

France, which is home to Europe's largest Muslim population of five million,
passed a law in 2004 forbidding students and staff from wearing veils and other
religious symbols in schools as part of a drive to defend secularism.

The promise of a ban has prompted warnings of racial tensions and there are
fears it could violate European human rights laws.

Al Qaeda has vowed a "dreadful revenge" on France if the burkha is banned . Last
night there were calls for Britain to follow suit. UKIP has called for all
Muslim face-coverings to be banned, claiming they are a symbol of an
increasingly divided Britain and pose a security risk. MEP Gerard Batten said:
"It is unusual for me to say this but you have to admire the way that the French
have responded to very real fears amongst their population over security by
enacting a ban on facial coverings."

Britain's Labour Government had always opposed any ban, saying it was a matter
of personal choice.

Last night the Muslim Council of Britain condemned the move.

A spokesman said: "This is a very worrying development. The French government
should be upholding religious freedoms."

Challenged Last night France's opposition Socialists challenged the government
plan to ban full Islamic veils in all public places, proposing a milder bill
based on practicality rather than values. The Socialist draft says that everyone
must keep their face uncovered when using public services to permit
identification.

In practice, this could mean women would have to remove face veils to pick up
their children from school or during wedding ceremonies at town halls.

The Socialist proposal could circumvent concerns over religious discrimination
by focusing on security and pragmatism.

Yesterday's preliminary vote will set the tone for the full parliamentary debate
in July.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Women wearing the niqab in France are facing £100 fines under a new law

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday

Timeline: Gordon Brown's premiership

BYLINE: Holly Bentleyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1522 words

ABSTRACT

Key dates from Gordon Brown's time in Downing Street

FULL TEXT

2007

27 June: Enters 10 Downing Street as prime minister, quoting his school motto:
"I will try my utmost." Commentators talk of a Brown "bounce" as an ICM poll has
Labour at 39%.

1 July: Brown gets some credit for his handling of the failed attacks carried
out by terrorists in London's West End and Glasgow airport.

7 July: Brown pledges £14m relief for Doncaster and Hull after some of the worst
UK flooding in 60 years.

3 August: Rushes back from holiday to chair emergency meeting on foot-and-mouth
disease outbreak.

14 September: Crisis surrounding Northern Rock grows as investors queue to
withdraw savings.

24 September: In his first Labour party conference speech as PM he commits to
full employment and repeats his pledge to create "British jobs for British
workers".

6 October: Brown calls off a snap autumn election. Critics accuse him of
"bottling" a decision because the Conservatives are polling well.

6 December: Labour plans to extend pre-charge detention to up to 42 days for
terror suspects. Brown later drops the idea after suffering a crushing Commons
defeat.

13 December: Downing Street blames a "diary clash" as Brown belatedly signs the
EU reform treaty, days after official ceremony.

2008

24 January: Peter Hain quits cabinet after failing to declare substantial
donations to his Labour deputy leadership bid in time.

17 February: Northern Rock is nationalised.

12 March: Alistair Darling's budget raises duty on alcohol but delays 2p-a-litre
petrol tax rise because of surge in oil prices.

21 April: Labour MPs worried about families on low income force Brown to rethink
plan to scrap 10p tax band.

2 May: Brown says in a BBC interview that "I take responsibility", as Labour
suffers its worst council results in at least 40 years. In the same week, Tory
Boris Johnson is elected mayor of London.

11 May: The Scottish Labour leader, Wendy Alexander, causes consternation when
she calls for an immediate referendum on Scottish independence. Brown pledges to
preserve the United Kingdom.

23 May: The Tories win the Crewe and Nantwich byelection, their first byelection
gain in more than 20 years. Having overturned a 7,000 majority, David Cameron
proclaims the "the end of New Labour".

3 October: Brown appoints a former adversary, Peter Mandelson, as business
secretary in a new cabinet.

7 November: Labour's comfortable win in the Glenrothes byelection is hailed by
Brown as a vote of confidence in the government.

10 December: Having won plaudits for his handling of the economic crisis,
Brown's question time gaffe that he "saved the world" is greeted by howls of
laughter on the Tory benches.

2009

2 April: Prime minister showered with public praise as he greets leaders of the
world's largest economies arriving at the G20 summit in London.

3 March: Brown is the first European leader to be welcomed at the White House by
the new US president, Barack Obama

29 March: The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, apologises after revelation that she
claimed expenses that included cost of adult movies for her husband. Smith was
already under investigation over her housing allowance.

27 April: During a visit to Afghanistan, Brown pledges tougher action in dealing
with the area bordering Pakistan - the "crucible of terror".

3 May: Hazel Blears tells Brown "YouTube if you want to" as he grapples with new
media in an attempt to get his message across.

8 May: MPs' expenses row erupts after newspaper revelations. Jacqui Smith steps
down, but all parties are damaged.

9 May: The Daily Telegraph reveals that Brown claimed expenses to pay his
brother Andrew £6,577 for arranging cleaning services at his Westminster flat in
2004-06.

5 June: Former Europe minister Caroline Flint gives Brown both barrels, saying
he treats women ministers as "female window dressing". Flint had quit the
government because she was not promoted.

8 June: More misery at the polls for Labour as it falls into third place, behind
Ukip, in the European elections.

22 September: Brown is honoured as World Statesman of the Year in New York for
"stabilising" the world economy and showing "compassionate leadership".

29 September: Sarah Brown adds to the feelgood factor surrounding Labour's
Brighton conference, describing her husband as "messy and noisy", but also her
"hero", in a speech from the podium.

9 November: Brown apologises to a grieving mother after he misspelt her son's
name in his letter of sympathy. Guardsman Jamie Janes was killed in Afghanistan.

21 December: At the Copenhagen summit, Brown says a global treaty on climate
change was "held to ransom" by some countries.

2010

6 January: Brown survives an internal plot to unseat him, led by Patricia Hewitt
and Geoff Hoon. He dismisses the story as a "storm in a teacup".

27 January: Figures show economy slowly moving out of recession.

2 February: Giving evidence to the Chilcot inquiry into the war in Iraq, Clare
Short says Brown was initially marginalised by Tony Blair in the run-up to the
invasion.

14 February: Brown speaks candidly about the death of his daughter, Jennifer,
during a celebrity-style TV interview with Piers Morgan.

21 February: Downing Street dismisses bullying accusations outlined against
Brown in new Andrew Rawnsley's book.

28 February: New YouGov poll gives Tories only 2 point lead over Labour (37%
Tory/35% Labour).

5 March: Appearing at the Chilcot inquiry, he defends the decision to go to war
against Saddam Hussein. Also says he did not deny forces equipment while
chancellor.

6 March: Visits British troops in Afghanistan and pledges to provide them with
all possible support and equipment

10 March: The BBC turns down Gordon Brown as a guest on Match of the Day 2. They
said "it wouldn't be appropriate in the run-up to the election".

14 March: A political row brews between the Unite trade union and Gordon Brown
over planned strikes by BA cabin crew.

15 March: Brown said he intends to "keep going" as Labour leader even if the
party loses the general election. He was being interviewed on BBC Radio 4's
Woman's Hour programme.

22 March: Brown gives a speech on his digital vision for Britain.

26 March: The PM gives an interview to The Guardian.

27 March: Brown unveils five key election pledges.

30 March: Tony Blair hits the campaign trail.

1 April: The Guardian unveils Labour's Step Outside Posh Boy campaign as its
April Fool.

6 April: Gordon Brown calls the general election on 6 May.

11 April: Neil Kinnock says Brown has a "face for radio".

12 April: Labour launches its election manifesto, the cover of which is likened
to a Chinese Communist party poster.

15 April: Brown is criticised after the first televised leaders' debate for
trying to ally himself too closely with Nick Clegg, who is voted a clear winner
by the papers.

19 April: As volcanic ash grounds flights across northern Europe, Brown pledges
to rescue stranded Brits in Spain by sending Navy ships. It is touted as an
election-winning move, but two of the ships fail to arrive.

22 April: Brown takes part in the second leaders' debate, on Sky. Nick Clegg
comes out the winner with 33% saying he won, over Cameron and Brown on 29%.

24 April: Brown attacks Tory plans for £6bn cuts.

26 April: The war of words between the party leaders intensifies as Nick Clegg
says he could work with Labour in a hung parliament, but not Brown. He later
qualifies this by saying he thinks Brown should go if Labour comes third.

27 April: Brown earns a standing ovation at the Royal College of Nurses
conference.

28 April: Brown is caught on microphone calling Gillian Duffy, 65, a "bigoted
woman" following a conversation with her in Rochdale. Media chaos ensues when he
visits her to apologise.

6 May: The general election results in a hung parliament, as Labour takes 258
seats (a loss of 89 seats and 29% of the vote) to the Tories' 306 (up 97, 36% of
the vote) and the Lib Dems' 57 (down 5, 23% of the vote).

7 May: Brown addresses reporters outside Downing Street, saying: "I understand
and completely respect the position of Mr Clegg in stating that he wishes to
make contact with the leader of the Conservative party. Clearly if the
discussions between Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg come to nothing then I would of
course be prepared to discuss with Mr Clegg the areas where there may be some
measure of agreement between our two parties."

Brown holds a brief phone conversation with Nick Clegg - the BBC reports that it
was an angry exchange.

8 May: Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, plays down a Brown-Clegg row,
saying: "Any suggestion that it was in any way angry or hostile would be wrong."
An official Lib Dem statement says the Brown-Clegg conversation was "perfectly
amicable and both men just set out what they said in their public statements".

John Mann, Labour MP for Bassetlaw, calls for Gordon Brown to step down as
Labour leader.

9 May: Some Labour cabinet ministers have privately told Brown he must only be a
transitional figure if a Lib Dem-Labour alliance is formed.

10 May: Gordon Brown announces he will stand down as Labour leader, and that
Labour will open formal talks with the Lib Dems on a possible coalition.

11 May: Brown resigns as PM.

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      May 12, 2010 Wednesday 10:56 AM GMT

The Heir of Blair exceeds his mentor's 10-year record of betrayal in just 24
hours

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 786 words


"England does not love coalitions," claimed Disraeli. It will positively loathe
the one with which it has just been saddled: by the time it runs its inglorious
course its two component parties will have shed a huge proportion of their
support and rendered themselves unelectable. The Heir of Blair has managed to
exceed his mentor's 10-year record of betrayal in just 24 hours. The
Conservative Party is now in the thralls of a relentless process of dissolution.

That process began with the capture of the party by Dave and his Portillista
modernisers, alienating the core support and rendering the so-called
Conservative Party unrecognisable. This led to last Thursday's failure at the
polls and consequently to the present squalid coalition. A strong Tory leader
would have told Nick Clegg: "We are going it alone as a minority government. If
you object, then vote us down: obstruct the reduction of the deficit, panic the
markets, provoke a run on sterling, then justify your conduct to the electorate
when we go to the country and seek a proper mandate."

Instead, desperate to reach the sanctuary of Number 10 at any cost to his party,
Dave smothered Clegg with largesse. The moral is: get an election result of
fewer parliamentary seats and come in third place, and your reward will be the
office of Deputy Prime Minister and 20 government posts, as well as a change in
the voting system that will further disadvantage the Tories at all future
elections. With a result like that, one wonders why Clegg has any problems with
First Past the Post.

Looking at the enormous concessions the Liberal Democrats have secured from
Cameron and the number of ministers across Whitehall, it was pretty decent of
Nick Clegg to allow the Tories to join his government. It is amusing to see so
many of the sycophants who have opportunistically gone along with Dave's
modernising madness now find no perks of office available for them since they
have been given to Liberal Democrats. Dave, like some biological warfare
scientist recreating the smallpox virus, has managed to resurrect a threat to
civilisation that expired 65 years ago: the Liberal cabinet minister. There will
be five of them sitting round the table in Number 10, in a supposedly
Conservative government.

The nation's finances are now the plaything of the Odd Couple: George Osborne
and Vince Cable (who will major on "business and banks"). The first example of
their strategy for recovery is already announced: the promised (and wholly
derisory) figure of 6bn in cuts from non-frontline services will be implemented;
at the same time, the income tax threshold will be raised to 10,000, at a cost
of 17bn. That exercise in trimming the deficit should reassure the markets. As
for a Liberal Democrat Home Secretary, such an appointment would mean that, a
year from now, Somalia and Bangladesh would be completely depopulated regions.

Under Dave's modernising rgime just one policy got through the net that was
recognisably Tory: raising the inheritance tax threshold. Unlike the Big Society
and all the other absurdities cribbed from other countries and political
movements, it struck a true chord with the electorate; so much so that it
panicked Gordon Brown into avoiding a planned general election, the fatal
mistake that led to his downfall. Yet the Tories lost the initiative and allowed
Labour to demonise the proposal; now it has been put on the back burner to
appease the Liberal Democrats. How did a flagship policy of proven electoral
potency become transformed into a liability?

What is happening today is an historic watershed for the Conservative Party -
and not in the sense its cheerleaders would have us imagine. Under Cameron's
leadership the party is becoming locked into a process of self-destruction that
before long will become irreversible - that may already be so. The haemorrhaging
of support that had already begun, as evidenced by the 900,000 votes for UKIP,
will now accelerate. After so much speculation over what permutation of parties
would emerge as a government, the answer turned out to be a Lib Dem/Lib Dem
coalition - the Liberals led by Nick Clegg joining with the liberals led by
David Cameron. There is no ideological gap between them.

This is very serious: the Conservative Party is dicing with death - its own
demise. What remains to be seen, in the short rather than the long term now, is
whether the party will disembarrass itself of Cameron in time and recover its
identity or whether conservatism in this country will be forced to find a new
political vehicle. As things stand today, the evidence suggests that the
trappings accompanying the illusion of "power" will anaesthetise the Tories
against reality until it is too late.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

No wonder it took five days. Coalition is hard work

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1176 words


Now comes the hard part. Setting up a coalition is much more complicated than
forming a single party government. It involves allocating ministerial jobs
between parties and people and, usually, a lengthy formal agreement. No wonder
that the average interval between polling day and a new government in the EU is
40 days, compared with the usual one day in Britain and five days of talks this
time.

The creation of a coalition is not only a bold political move but it also has
far-reaching administrative and constitutional implications. It requires
politicians and civil servants to behave in different ways from the familiar
single-party governments.

We have had minority governments in the past: after the February 1974 election,
and after administrations have lost their Commons majorities after defections
and by-election defeats as in 1977-79 and 1996-97. This led to the Lab-Lib
co-operation pact of 1977-78. But the government has always consisted of
ministers of one party.

Formal coalitions are rare at Westminster, apart from both the world wars when
the two main parties were in coalition and shared ministerial posts, from 1915
until 1918, and from 1940 until the end of the war in Europe in May 1945. But,
in peacetime, coalitions have occurred mainly when one party has split. One
party has then dominated the coalition even if the leader has been from the
smaller party, as happened when Lloyd George led a Conservative-dominated
postwar coalition from 1918 until 1922, and Ramsay MacDonald led a small number
of Labour ministers and MPs into the National Government.

The last true coalition of two parties was the link between the Conservatives
and the Liberal Unionists, after the Liberals split over Irish Home Rule in
1886. They later became known jointly as Unionists.

There is, however, plenty of experience of coalitions outside Westminster, in
Edinburgh and Cardiff, as well as in most of the rest of the EU and several
Commonwealth countries.

Ever since a hung Parliament became a strong possibility, the Civil Service has
been modifying its preparations, seeking out officials with Scottish or Welsh
experience. They have also been quickly catching up on Liberal Democrat policy
proposals and compared them with the Conservative manifesto to prepare joint
briefs from new ministers. Sir Gus O'Donnell, the Cabinet Secretary, has
challenged the Civil Service to prepare for all possible outcomes.

There are several lessons from elsewhere, as pointed out in recent studies from
the Institute for Government and the Constitution Unit. They include:

1) having a clear agreement from the start on the duration, policy goals and
allocation of portfolios; 2) having ministers from different parties in each
department, rather than having departments allocated to specific parties. This
spreading of ministers meant that in Scotland in 1999 there were 24 ministers,
rather than 8 or 9 initially expected; 3) recognising that personalities matter
in order to create trust. Relationships were crucial in Scotland in 1999 between
Donald Dewar and Jim Wallace and in Wales in 2007 between Rhodri Morgan and
Ieuan Wyn Jones. So, now, the personal relationship between David Cameron and
Nick Clegg will be crucial. Mr Cameron will have to deal with the
disappointments of Conservative shadows who will now not get the ministerial
posts they expected; 4) knowing that it is vital to compromise in order to keep
people together.

The Scottish experience from 1999 until 2007 is that coalitions can work and
provide stability, but they have not been tested under the kind of budgetary
strain that is certain over the next few years.

In coalitions, most of the tensions are inside government, since the combination
of two parties provides an assured Commons majority - of more than 70 in the
Tory-Lib Dem deal. By contrast, in minority government, the main challenge is
winning votes in the Commons by bargaining with other parties.

There are downsides: coalition agreements can be too detailed: 439 commitments
were agreed in Scotland in 1999. This requires flexibility under the pressures
of events, and to have procedures to resolve disputes. Calculations of political
balance arise over cross-cutting decisions.

Since the stability and survival of the coalition is the primary aim,
contentious issues between coalition partners can be buried. Reshuffles become
difficult because of the need to maintain balance between parties - so a
minister is replaced by one from the same party.

It becomes harder to maintain collective responsibility, the doctrine that
ministers accept the same policy once it is decided and never then question it
in public. This is harder with two or more coalition partners.

In the 1931-33, members of the National Government took different views on free
trade until agreement on new tariffs led to the resignation of the mainly
Liberal advocates of free trade.

There can be tensions between coalition partners when things go wrong and one
party becomes electorally unpopular, as now in Germany in the six-month-old
coalition between the CDU/CSU and the Free Democrats. In certain countries, such
as New Zealand, some ministers have been required to observe collective
responsibility solely on their own portfolios and not on other departmental
areas.

In short, many of our longstanding assumptions about how government works will
have to change.

Alternative voting

Voting reform may be the glue that holds the Conservative and Liberal Democrat
coalition together, and could be the stuff that undermines its strength.
Conservatives, though wedded to the first-past-thepost system under which the
general election was fought, will probably allow a referendum on a new polling
method, as sought by Liberal Democrats

Source: Electoral Reform Society

How it works

The so-called alternative vote (AV) is the most likely substitute. It is not
proportional representation but does give smaller political parties an electoral
boost. Voters rank some (or all) candidates on the ballot in order of
preference. If a candidate gets above 50 per cent of all first preference votes
they are elected.

If no one wins a majority on the first count, the lastplaced candidate is
eliminated and their second preference votes are allocated to thesurvivors. If
there is still no winner, the process is repeated, and re-repeated, until a
victor is identified. In the last tally, a candidate who originally topped the
vote can fall to second or third in the final calculations

Candidate A Conservative Party Candidate B Green Party Candidate CLabour Party
Candidate D Liberal Democrats Candidate E UKIP Number the boxes from 1 to 5 in
order of your choice BALLOT PAPER

Conservative Party Votes 340 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 UKIP 20
Conservative Party Votes 380 Lib Dem 380 Labour 240 Lib Dem Party Votes 510
Conservative Conservative Party Votes 360 Lib Dem 320 Labour 220 Green 100 ive
rvativ 490 50%+ Winner! Labour 262 (+4) Tory 280 (-25) Lib Dem 79 (+22) Others
29 (0) Difference from 2010 result in brackets How the parties would have fared
under the AV system

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Formal coalitions were led by David Lloyd George in 1918 and Churchill
in 1940
Liberals sustained James Callaghan in 1977 but his was a single-party Cabinet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 12, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

No wonder it took five days. Coalition is hard work

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1123 words


Setting up a coalition is much more complicated than forming a single party
government. It involves allocating ministerial jobs between parties and people
and, usually, a lengthy formal agreement. No wonder that the average interval
between polling day and a new government in the European Union is 40 days,
compared with the usual one day in Britain and five days of talks this time.

The creation of a coalition is not only a bold political move but it also has
far-reaching administrative and constitutional implications. It requires
politicians and civil servants to behave in different ways from the familiar
single-party governments.

We have had minority governments in the past: after the February 1974 election,
and after administrations have lost their Commons majorities after defections
and by-election defeats as in 1977-79 and 1996-97. This led to the Lab-Lib
co-operation pact of 1977-78. But the government has always consisted of
ministers of one party.

Formal coalitions are rare at Westminster, apart from both the world wars when
the two main parties were in coalition and shared ministerial posts, from 1915
until 1918, and from 1940 until the end of the war in Europe in May 1945. But,
in peacetime, coalitions have occurred mainly when one party has split. One
party has then dominated the coalition even if the leader has been from the
smaller party, as happened when Lloyd George led a Conservative-dominated
postwar coalition from 1918 until 1922, and Ramsay MacDonald led a small number
of Labour ministers and MPs into the National Government.

The last true coalition of two parties was the link between the Conservatives
and the Liberal Unionists, after the Liberals split over Irish Home Rule in
1886. They later became known jointly as Unionists.

There is, however, plenty of experience of coalitions outside Westminster, in
Edinburgh and Cardiff, as well as in most of the rest of the EU and several
Commonwealth countries.

Ever since a hung Parliament became a strong possibility, the Civil Service has
been modifying its preparations, seeking out officials with Scottish or Welsh
experience. They have also been quickly catching up on Liberal Democrat policy
proposals and compared them with the Conservative manifesto to prepare joint
briefs from new ministers. Sir Gus O'Donnell, the Cabinet Secretary, has
challenged the Civil Service to prepare for all possible outcomes.

There are several lessons from elsewhere, as pointed out in recent studies from
the Institute for Government and the Constitution Unit. They include: 1) having
a clear agreement from the start on the duration, policy goals and allocation of
portfolios; 2) having ministers from different parties in each department,
rather than having departments allocated to specific parties. This spreading of
ministers meant that in Scotland in 1999 there were 24 ministers, rather than 8
or 9 initially expected; 3) recognising that personalities matter in order to
create trust. Relationships were crucial in Scotland in 1999 between Donald
Dewar and Jim Wallace and in Wales in 2007 between Rhodri Morgan and Ieuan Wyn
Jones. So, now, the personal relationship between David Cameron and Nick Clegg
will be crucial. Mr Cameron will have to deal with the disappointments of
Conservative shadows who will now not get the ministerial posts they expected;
4) knowing that it is vital to compromise in order to keep people together.

The Scottish experience from 1999 until 2007 is that coalitions can work and
provide stability, but they have not been tested under the kind of budgetary
strain that is certain over the next few years.

In coalitions, most of the tensions are inside government, since the combination
of two parties provides an assured Commons majority - of more than 70 in the
Tory-Lib Dem deal. By contrast, in minority government, the main challenge is
winning votes in the Commons by bargaining with other parties.

There are downsides: coalition agreements can be too detailed: 439 commitments
were agreed in Scotland in 1999. This requires flexibility under the pressures
of events, and to have procedures to resolve disputes. Calculations of political
balance arise over cross-cutting decisions.

Since the stability and survival of the coalition is the primary aim,
contentious issues between coalition partners can be buried. Reshuffles become
difficult because of the need to maintain balance between parties - so a
minister is replaced by one from the same party.

It becomes harder to maintain collective responsibility, the doctrine that
ministers accept the same policy once it is decided and never then question it
in public. This is harder with two or more coalition partners.

In the 1931-33, members of the National Government took different views on free
trade until agreement on new tariffs led to the resignation of the mainly
Liberal advocates of free trade.

There can be tensions between coalition partners when things go wrong and one
party becomes electorally unpopular, as now in Germany in the six-month-old
coalition between the CDU/CSU and the Free Democrats. In certain countries, such
as New Zealand, some ministers have been required to observe collective
responsibility solely on their own portfolios and not on other departmental
areas.

In short, many of our longstanding assumptions about how government works will
have to change.

Alternative voting ng Number in order Candidate Conservative BALLOT Voting
reform may be the glue that holds the Conservative and Liberal Democrat
coalition together, and could be the stuff that undermines its strength.
Conservatives, though wedded to the first-past-thepost system under which the
general election was fought, will probably allow a referendum on a new polling
method, as sought by Liberal Democrats Candidate Green Party Candidate Party
Candidate Liberal Democrats Candidate UKIP Source: Electoral Reform Society iety
The so-called alternative vote (AV) is the most likely substitute. It is not
proportional representation but does give smaller political parties an electoral
boost. Voters rank some (or all) candidates on the ballot in order of
preference. If a candidate gets above 50 per cent of all first preference votes
they are elected.   If no one wins a majority on the first count, the lastplaced
candidate is eliminated and their second preference votes are allocated to the
survivors. If there is still no winner, the process is repeated, and
re-repeated, until a victor is identified. In the last tally, a candidate who
originally topped the vote can fall to second or third in the final calculations
Others 29 (0) Lib Dem 79 (+22) How the parties would have fared under the AV
system Tory 280 (-25) Labour 262 (+4) Difference from 2010 result in brackets

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Formal coalitions were led by David Lloyd George in 1918 and Churchill
in 1940
Liberals sustained James Callaghan in 1977 but his was a single-party Cabinet

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

THE NEW POLITICS? MORE LIKE BROKEBACK MOUNTAIN

BYLINE: BY RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

LENGTH: 1468 words


THIS column has never done honeymoon periods -- especially after the kind of
shotgun wedding which took place this week. But today's not the day to tip the
ceremonial bucketload over our new coalition Government.

Despite the surreal scenes in the Downing Street back garden, the impression I
get is that most people are perfectly happy for now with the arrangement between
the Conservatives and the Lib Dems.

The novelty will wear off and there will be fractious times ahead, but the
prospect of two, personable young men and their respective parties co- operating
in the national interest seems to have endeared itself to the paying public.

In this Brokeback Mountain-style love-in, Dave as Heath Ledger and Nick as Jake
Gyllenhall have saddled up for the long haul.

The sight of Cameron and Clegg staring fondly into each other ' s eyes stands in
welcome contrast to the ghastly, self-serving politics of venality, resentment,
hatred and mendacity honed and prosecuted by Gordon Brown.

Our never-elected, departing Prime Minister always put himself and his party
first. The national interest came a distant third, and sometimes even fourth.
Policies were pursued not for the public good, but simply to lay a bear trap for
his opponents. frankly, I have been astonished by the generous tributes paid to
Brown, who dragged British politics into the sewer, bankrupted the country, lied
and cheated as a basis for negotiation, refused ever to accept any blame for his
own incompetence, and even tried to mount an outrageous and cynical last-minute
coup to remain in office after being resoundingly rejected by the electorate.
far from being the towering, moral statesman of his own myth, Brown was a vain,
weak, cowardly, bullying Prime Minister with a sociopathic sense of entitlement.
we are well rid of him and his odious gang of accomplices, primarily the
malignant crook Mandelson and Alastair Campbell, who was responsible for the
demented, scandalous smear campaign which drove Dr David Kelly to his death.

WITH the slippery grasp on truth and reality for which he is legendary, Campbell
spent the past few days touring television studios protesting that the Tories
had lost the election and Labour had won and therefore should be allowed to form
a 'progressive' government with the Liberals, even though it still wouldn't
command a majority in the House.

In the event, Nick Clegg chose to throw in his lot with Call Me Dave, after the
Labour counter-offer was presented with characteristic bad faith and lack of
honest intent. The Tories were the only show in town.

This week has seen a generational shift, as much as a political realignment.
Miserable old cynics like me, who want to see the repeal of the yuman rites act,
the repatriation of Britain's fishing waters, a referendum on withdrawal from a
federal europe and an economic recovery based upon savage public spending cuts
and low, ideally flat-rate, taxation, are just going to have to accept that it
ain't gonna happen.

The new breed of politicians in their 40s are far more relaxed about european
integration and levels of welfare subsidies and public sector waste which were
once considered ruinous.

The chances of a minority Tory government surviving, even if every UKIP voter
switched to the Conservatives, were always perilous. Maybe this is as good as it
gets for the Tories.

Committed Unionists like myself are also becoming resigned to full Scottish and
welsh independence, whether the Scots and the welsh want it or not. we can no
longer tolerate a system which forces an overwhelmingly Tory england to bankroll
separatist administrations in edinburgh and Cardiff, while england -- which
makes up the lion's share of the Union -- is deprived of its own parliament.
what may save the present, skewed set-up is the reliance of the Lib Dems on
Scottish support at westminster and the fact that the new Government has more
pressing priorities.

Still, we are where we are and both Cameron and Clegg have made a decent fist of
the hands they were played.

Call Me Dave was wise to lock in the Lib Dems as full partners. Clegg gets to
play fantasy Prime Minister a few times a year and his rivals in his own party
have been shunted into second-rank jobs, such as Chris whohe, who becomes
minister for windmills.

The Lib Dem who comes badly out of all this is Vince Cable. for the past couple
of years, Saint Vinny has been telling us he is the only man with a plan to
rescue Britain from economic crisis. This column has never bought in to the cult
of Cable and when push came to shove and Vinny had the chance to go to the
Treasury as Chief Secretary, he flunked it because he couldn't stomach the
prospect of the opprobrium which will inevi tably accompany the necessary cuts.

As for this coalition being transparent, I'll believe it when I see it. There
will be some unpalatable deals stitched up over the next few years. for
instance, I don't remember anything in the Tory manifesto about cranking up
Capital Gains Tax to 50 per cent. everyone has a vested interest in making this
work. If the Liberals were to collapse the coalition before the economic heavy
lifting produces a sustained recovery, they will be buying a one-way ticket to
oblivion.

Despite many reservations, though, I can see this Government going the distance.
And at least it means we are shot of Labour for at least five years -- with any
luck, for good.

In the meantime, this column will be resuming its constitutional duty of sitting
at the back throwing bottles.

The ceremonial bucket has not been mothballed, it is being polished. The
honeymoon stops here.

BOSOMS ON PRESCRIPTION

SPeNDING on the National Health Service has been 'ring-fenced' by the new
Government. Does that mean that ministers seriously believe there is no room for
savings in the NHS?

In which case, they may care to inquire why west Midlands Ambulance Service has
just managed to find the money to spend 610,000 on a bizarre survey which asks
staff, among other things, whether Hitler was 'cool'.

It was designed as part of a better leadership project. who thought that was a
sensible use of 'resources'? elsewhere, a transsexual is suing west Berkshire
Primary Health Care Trust under the Yuman Rites Act for a pair of false breasts.

Apparently expensive hormone treatment has failed to deliver an impressive
cleavage. The case is likely to cost 6100,000 in legal fees, money which some
might argue would be better spent eradicating superbugs or hiring a few more
nurses.

And an illegal immigrant and convicted fraudster from Jordan is being put up in
a nursing home in Stockport, at a cost to taxpayers of 6700 a week, while he
fights deportation and tries to force the NHS through the courts to pay for his
kidney dialysis treatment.

This is a man who was jailed after conning banks and building societies out of
6800,000. He says he wouldn't be able to afford treatment in Jordan, therefore
the health service must foot the bill. when the NHS and yuman rites collide, the
mug British taxpayer always gets screwed.

How 'cool' is that?

DON'T FANCY YOURS MUCH, DAVE ...

InCIDenTaLLy, where did they find those weirdos to stand next to David Miliband
when he announced he was running for the leadership?

He was flanked by two birds from Cell Block H.

They were the strangest collection assembled at the House of Commons since John
Major's famous Tory 'bastards' held a press conference looking like the crew of
the starship enterprise.

This bunch looked as if they had been handpicked with the sole intention of
making Miliband Major look normal.

A few months ago I brought you news of the Pagan Police Association, which has
been officially recognised by the Home Office.

One of its leading lights is a Plod called PC Andy Pandy, from Hemel Hempstead
in Hertfordshire, who worships Norse gods and was campaigning for time off to
attend pagan religious services. Apparently, the association now boasts around
500 members with an assortment of interests, including drinking honey mead and
dancing naked during the summer solstice, making 'priapic wands', casting spells
and leaving food outside for 'the wandering dead'.

The Home Office has also agreed that officers can taken time off in february to
celebrate Imbolc, the festival of the lactating sheep.

A spokesman said the police force should reflect the 'diverse communities' it
serves.

Presumably, the same concessions also apply to any coppers who practise
satanism.

If you want to get in touch with them, you don't dial 999, you dial 666.

On TuesDay, I likened Call Me Dave and nick to Jedward, the joined-at-the-hip
Irish twins off X Factor. now it looks as if Labour is replying with its own boy
band, as both David and ed Miliband throw their baseball caps into the
leadership ring.

Maybe the Miliband brothers are Labour's dream ticket. new Kids On The Block,
they ain't.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

BRITAIN'S NEW 610BN BILL TO BAIL OUT EURO

BYLINE: BY TIM SHIPMAN

LENGTH: 443 words


BRITISH taxpayers have been hit by a fresh 610billion bill to prop up the euro
after the Government was roped into a bailout of Europe's failing economies.

A deal signed in Brussels yesterday includes a 6 215billion handout from the
International Monetary Fund, of which the British share would be 610billion.

This is in addition to liabilities through a separate fund of 68billion if
Greece defaults on its debts and 65billion already committed in loan guarantees
to Latvia and Hungary.

It means means British taxpayers could lose a total of 623billion to bolster the
single currency.

Global stock markets enjoyed their biggest rally in more than a year yesterday
after the eurozone nations also unveiled a package of loans to stricken
economies such as Greece, Spain, Italy and Portugal totalling 6378billion.
Britain stayed out of that bailout fund.

And the European Central Bank announced that it would buy up the government debt
of eurozone countries on the slide.

Chancellor Alistair Darling claimed Britain was not underwriting the euro,
saying: 'There was no way that non- euro countries should be asked to underwrite
the euro currency. That would have been unreasonable.'

But EU diplomats contradicted him, pointing out that the emergency summit where
the deal was agreed and its two loan funds were designed to do just that.

EU monetary affairs commissioner Olli Rehn said the plans 'prove we shall defend
the euro whatever it takes'.

He said the loan fund which Britain is part of 'would be the first in line to be
used' to shore up the Eurozone's fading economies.

European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso said he would unveil proposals
tomorrow urging EU governments to sign up to a centrally co- ordinated set of
economic policies.

The move is likely to be seen as a clear signal that Brussels bureaucrats see
the economic crisis as a chance to push for yet more federalist integration.

Resisting the bailout moves is likely to put the Tories on a collision course
with the Lib Dems if they form a coalition government.

Critics are already predicting that the final bailout will have to be in excess
of 61trillion, with Britain landed with liabilities in excess of 640billion.

Paul Nuttall, the chairman of the UK Independence Party said: 'Why is it at the
time the UK needs to spend every penny it can on reducing it's own deficit, we
are instead going to spend billions on bailing out other countries?'

The FTSE 100 closed up 5 per cent at 5387, its biggest one-day gain since
December 2008. On Wall Street the Dow Jones jumped

3.5 per cent to 10744 during mid afternoon trading, following big falls in stock
markets last week.

t.shipman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rainbow coalition would have to prop up the 'coalition of losers';
MINORITY PARTIES

BYLINE: Holly Watt Holly Watt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 478 words


LABOUR and the Liberal Democrats may still need to form a "rainbow coalition"
with other minority parties if they agree a power-sharing deal in the coming
days.

Even when the Labour and Lib Dem seats are combined, they still do not add up to
326 required for a majority, meaning that any coalition is likely to involve
deals with nationalist MPs from Wales, Scotland and Northern Ireland.

Both the Scottish and Welsh nationalist parties have indicated that they would
support a Lib-Lab coalition and have MPs in London ready to negotiate a deal.
The parties are likely to insist that Scotland and Wales are protected from
spending cuts.

Alex Salmond, the Scottish National Party leader, has suggested that his party
would be more inclined to support a Labour-based coalition. Mr Salmond,
Scotland's First Minister, was among the first to put forward the idea of a
coalition made up of his party, as well as the Plaid Cymru MPs. This socalled
"coalition of losers" would only just be able to get enough votes for a Commons
majority. Labour has 258 MPs, while the Lib Dems have 57, so a coalition of just
these two parties would have only 315 seats.

Due to their refusal to swear an oath of allegiance to the Queen, the five Sinn
Fein MPs do not take their seats in the House of Commons, meaning that the
"rainbow coalition" needs 323 MPs for a majority, only eight more than the
Liberal Democrats and Labour votes combined.

There are six SNP MPs and three Plaid Cymru MPs in Westminster. The votes from
these nine MPs would be just enough for the coalition to reach a majority
provided that the Sinn Fein MPs do not vote.

The Tories by contrast have 306 seats, although this is likely to rise to 307 at
the end of the month when the last constituency holds its vote. The vote in
Thirsk and Malton was delayed until May 27 after the UKIP candidate died during
the campaign.

They are also likely to be supported by the Democratic Unionist Party (DUP),
which now has eight seats.

With the number of seats held by each notional coalition bloc being so close,
the MPs from the Alliance Party, the SDLP and the Green Party's first MP could
assume unanticipated importance.

The SDLP, which has three MPs, traditionally takes the Labour whip, while Naomi
Long, the Alliance MP, would also be expected to vote with the coalition as her
party is aligned with the Lib Dems.

The Green Party's one MP, Caroline Lucas, has also suggested she would be
inclined to support a Leftleaning coalition. Last night, Angus Robertson, the
SNP MP and Westminster party leader, said that Gordon Brown had done "the right
thing" in resigning. "The SNP have made it clear that we believe a progressive
alliance can deliver the best result for the people of Scotland - rather than a
Tory government," he said.

Plaid Cymru also welcomed Mr Brown's decision as opening up the possibility of a
"progressive alliance".

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caroline Lucas, the Green Party's first MP, and Alex Salmond, the SNP
leader, are more inclined to support a Labour-based coalition than a
Conservative one
FULLER/DANNY LAWSON/PA GARETH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gordon Brown's ill-omened scheme to depart this year may prove the kiss of death
for the Liberal Democrats;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1028 words


SIR - If the Liberal Democrats persist in their connection with Labour, they
will have finally nailed down their own coffin. They could have returned to
former glory with David Cameron; instead, they appear to want a rainbow
coalition of all the runners-up.

It will mean another election this autumn, after which the Conservatives can
provide a stable government on their own, and the Lib Dems can return to
obscurity.

Lieutenant Colonel Richard King-Evans Hambye, Manche, France SIR - Gordon
Brown's standing down as leader of the Labour Party and his request for formal
talks with the Liberal Democrats speak of dirty politics. It has made me so very
angry.

David Cameron won the election and should be in Downing Street. All this
connivance to keep him out, at a time of dire economic problems, is disgusting.
Not only will Mr Brown not concede the election, but he is now trying to impose
another unelected leader on to this country.

A coalition between Labour and Lib Dems cannot possibly last and, at this time,
we desperately need some sort of stability.

Phyllis Jones Clapham, Bedfordshire SIR - Anthony Seldon (Comment, May 8) avers
that Gordon Brown "was" a man of intellect and heart. Wrong.

Henry Kissinger said once that power was the greatest aphrodisiac in the world.
He was being jocular. More true is that power is the most demonic narcotic in
the world. It makes heroin look like aspirin.

If power is a drug, Mr Brown has been a long-term addict. His lust for power,
like his predecessor's adoration of self, tarnished and embittered everything he
did. From sending boys to die abroad with trashy equipment, to blatant denial of
everything that went wrong, his power lust has brought us to the threshold of
ruin and too many brave lads to their graves. Frederick Forsyth Hertford SIR -
On Sunday, David Blunkett said: "I'm absolutely certain Gordon Brown will do the
right thing." What do we get? Skulduggery to the bitter end.

Is there no end to Labour's torture of the British public? Rob Chisholm
Whissendine, Rutland SIR - How terribly sad. Is democracy now dead in Great
Britain, and is a government now to be decided by ambition, blackmail and
bribery? Rosemary Howland Winchester, Hampshire SIR - How quietly Mr Brown had
his civil servants reinterpret the constitution and usurp the Queen's
prerogative to replace the loser.

Martin Burgess Beckenham, Kent SIR - Mr Brown has stated that when he leaves
politics he would like to work for a charity. I have one word of warning to any
employer. Do not make him treasurer. Peter Gee Ellesmere, Shropshire SIR - I
recall the "un-Stansgating" of Tony Benn, which enabled him later to achieve
Cabinet membership in the Wilson government.

Can we envisage the "de-Lording" of anyone who might wish to lead the country as
our next prime minister? Viv Payne Edwalton, Nottinghamshire SIR -I hope Mr
Clegg has not forgotten Tony Blair's shameful reneging on a promise made on
electoral reform to Paddy Ashdown in 1997 - a betrayal that proves Labour simply
cannot be trusted. David Williams Epperstone, Nottinghamshire SIR - Can we
expect a Lib-Lab coalition to be marketed as "Brand New Labour"? Jim Newell
Watford, Hertfordshire SIR - As well as the words sorry and lost (Letters may
10), Mr Brown seems incapable of saying "Democrat". He will talk about the
Liberals, not the Liberal Democrats.

It does seem rather impolite to try and make an alliance with a party whose name
he constantly gets wrong. Ann Salmon West Chiltington, West Sussex SIR -
Perhaps, then, we are to have a coalition of the losers, with a priority of
reducing the deficit. But the numbers mean they will need the support of other
parties, in particular, the nationalists.

The SNP has said that, in this situation, its priority will be the protection of
Scottish funding, while a strong point of the Plaid Cymru election campaign was
that Wales is already under-funded and requires additional cash. Northern
Ireland MPs of all hues will argue that sustained funding is necessary to secure
progress following the "Troubles".

After all the backroom deals to sustain this coalition, which part of the United
Kingdom will bear the brunt of the cuts that we all know are necessary? Kieran
O'Kelly Andover, Hampshire SIR - Forget the 30million voters. Mr Clegg will
choose the prime minister. Rowland Aarons London N3 SIR - While the Lib Dems pay
lip service to the national interest, they should remember King Solomon's wisdom
regarding the women who argued who was the mother of a baby.

Andrew Cave London NW3 SIR - Mr Clegg argued for the national interest as the
priority in his negotiations. How come, then, all the arguments about PR, purely
for party political ends? The tail is wagging the dog. Tim Waller Bristol SIR -
Labour is proposing a power share with the Lib Dems under a leader who did not
fight the election, manufacturing a majority in the Commons by using the votes
of MPs who do not wish to be part of the United Kingdom, and excluding the most
popular party from government. And they're doing this under a banner of "fair
votes".

Ian Johnson Cirencester, Gloucestershire SIR - When I vote, why does Mr Clegg
not want me to choose who I want my MP to be? What makes him think he has the
right to choose for me with a party list? Martin Kochanski London SW1 SIR - If
parliamentary seats were allocated to parties on the basis of votes cast across
the country, the Liberal Democrats would be delighted with their total of 150
seats.

However, many of the public may be surprised to discover that the British
National Party would have received 12 seats, and the UK Independence Party 20,
even though in no single contest did either party rank higher than third. Plaid
Cymru, on the other hand, would have no seats - it currently holds three.

Thus, proportional representation would reward parties which hold extreme and
unrealistic political views, when no constituency would be happy to have such a
party representing it in Parliament. Jeremy Goldsmith Newark-on-Trent,
Nottinghamshire SIR - With proportional representation, this unseemly backdoor
bargaining would become the norm. No, thank you.

David Newland Ickleton, Cambridgeshire

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hard to go: George Hix, a temporary hand at the Commons since 1857,
pictured in 1916
TOPICAL PRESS AGENCY/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday

'Nightmare in the markets looming'

BYLINE: Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 449 words


THE pound fell within seconds of Gordon Brown's announcement that Labour was
trying to do a deal with the Liberal Democrats.

Analysts warned of a "nightmare scenario" in the financial markets if Mr Brown
made any attempt to stay in power.

Sterling fell nearly two cents against the dollar within minutes of the Prime
Minister's resignation announcement, trading at $1.4866 yesterday evening.

Jim Leaviss, head of fixed interest at M&G Investments, said: "The one thing the
market does not want is a pact between Labour and the Liberal Democrats."

Investors showed more patience with politicians than many feared last week, as
the markets remained stable in spite of uncertainty over the make-up of the new
government.

But Mr Brown's revelation that the Lib Dems had offered to start talks with
Labour raised fears that a weak, unstable government would undermine confidence
in Britain's recovery.

Analysts fear that a Lib-Lab pact will mean that it could take even longer for
the next government to deal with the budget deficit.

A survey of 500 companies by the British Chambers of Commerce released yesterday
found 49 per cent believed that the result of the election made it harder to cut
the budget deficit.

Negotiations

David Frost, director-general of the BCC, said: "Businesses nationwide have
watched negotiations between the parties closely since the election result
became clear.

"This poll shows that business's overwhelming priority is for a strong and
stable administration to be formed to cut the UK's unsustainable budget deficit.

"This single goal must be the focus of a new government's first 90 days, and
beyond."

Ian Stannard, at BNP Paribas, said: "A Lib-Lab coalition would be a big negative
for sterling. The Government will be unstable and will not have the ability to
drive through the cuts required."

Michael Hewson, currencies analyst at CMC Markets, said: "This muddies the
waters somewhat in terms of getting a stable government in place by the end of
the week."

Jeremy Cook, chief economist at foreign exchange brokers World First, said:
"It's pretty clear that the market wants certainty and that the news that Clegg
is dillydallying between Labour and the Conservatives has not gone down well.

"I'm surprised that the markets haven't hit sterling harder today, the EU plan
has taken a bullet for us. As soon as that becomes old news, sterling is once
again in the firing line."

EU BAILOUT

GLOBAL markets surged yesterday in relief at the £645 billion euro bailout deal
by EU leaders after 11 hours of talks. It aims to stop Greece's crisis
spreading. Chancellor Alistair Darling says our risk is capped at £8billion but
UKIP say we're underwriting billions of euro debt with no veto.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 11, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

How deceit could turn into victory for Brown's Labour;
ELECTION 2010

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 871 words


WHAT a difference a day makes. The Tories had one foot in the door of Number 10
yesterday morning - by tea-time, however, they were the further away from
Downing Street than they have been for the last 13 years.

It was a day packed full of sheer political drama - resignations, back-stabbing,
bust-ups, whispers and secrecy - more than Westminster has witnessed in its long
and colourful history.

A day when the red, yellow and blue political touch-paper was lit, creating a
volcanic fallout of Icelandic proportions.

But as the fireworks began to streak above Parliament last night the sky was
filled with Red and Yellow - the Blue was fading.

Warning

It had all started so well for David Cameron and his Conservative Party,
seemingly on the cusp of holding the power they have craved for so long.

Nick Clegg, the unlikely kingmaker and looking as bright as the spring sunshine
outside his London home, declaring that negotiators were "working flat out" to
reach a powersharing deal quickly but warning any agreement would need to "stand
the test of time".

Minutes later Lib Dem and Tory teams meet at the Cabinet Office on Whitehall to
try to thrash out a deal with Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague, expressing
his optimism as talks begin. Things got better as Lib Dem sources maintained
that Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg had had a "positive and constructive" brief phone
conversation.

"Good progress" was being made at 11.52am according to both Tory and Lib Dem
negotiators.

Time for lunch cooed both sides as muffins, sandwiches, tea and coffee were
ferried in to rejuvenate weary MPs before they re-entered the coliseum of
conflab.

The winds of change had been fluttering in Westminster for weeks, possibly
months but within a matter of minutes yesterday they whipped up into a frenzied
whirlwind.

In a dramatic U-turn Nick Clegg decided to play with political fire and snubbed
the Tories in favour of Labour.

His party demanded "clarification" from Tories on education funding, fairer
taxes and voting reform while cosying up to Gordon Brown over a possible
power-sharing deal in Downing Street.

In bizarre scenes, David Laws, one of the Lib Dem negotiating team, addressed a
throng of journalists in front of dozens of schoolchildren who were on a
Parliamentary outing. He said the parliamentary party had agreed on forming a
"strong stable government in the national interest" while reducing the deficit
at it heart was the top priority.

"The parliamentary party has also agreed that the leader will continue to listen
to representations that are coming from the leader of the Labour Party," he
said.

The Tories were bemused, but they were sent positively reeling by the next
political announcement of the day.

Gordon Brown's resignation on the steps of Downing Street was a bombshell of
atomic proportions that had the Conservative party lost for words with the
chance of power slipping through Mr Cameron's fingers.

Joker

As rows erupted on TV and the country began to digest the news the Tories were
back with a counter-move. By offering the Lib Dems a referendum on the
Alternative Voting system the Conservatives were throwing their "final offer" in
this game of political poker.

But it was Nick Clegg, the joker in the pack, who was seemingly holding all the
aces.

Talks were under way as night fell last night with a Labour, Lib Dem, minority
alliance looking as if it could be on the cards.

OPINION & COMMENT: PAGE 12

'NIGHTMARE IN THE MARKETS LOOMS'

THE pound fell within seconds of Gordon Brown's announcement that Labour was
trying to do a deal with the Liberal Democrats.

Analysts warned of a "nightmare scenario" in the financial markets if Mr Brown
made an attempt to stay in power.

Sterling fell nearly two cents against the dollar within minutes of the Prime
Minister's resignation announcement, trading at $1.4866 yesterday evening.

Jim Leaviss, of M&G Investments, said: "The one thing the market does not want
is a pact between Labour and the Liberal Democrats."

Investors showed more patience with politicians than many feared last week, as
the markets remained stable in spite of uncertainty over the make-up of the new
government.

But Mr Brown's revelation that the Lib Dems had offered to start talks with
Labour raised fears that a weak government would jeopardise Britain's recovery
because it would take longer to address the deficit.

A survey of 500 firms by the British Chambers of Commerce released yesterday
found 49 per cent believed the result of the election made it harder to cut the
budget deficit.

"A Lib-Lab coalition would be a big negative for sterling," said Ian Stannard,at
BNP Paribas. "The Government will not have the ability to drive through the cuts
required."

Jeremy Cook, chief economist at brokers World First, said: "I'm surprised that
the markets haven't hit sterling harder today, the EU plan has taken a bullet
for us. As soon as that becomes old news, sterling is once again in the firing
line."

EU BAILOUT

GLOBAL markets surged yesterday in relief at the £645 billion euro bailout deal
by EU leaders after 11 hours of talks. It aims to stop Greece's crisis
spreading. Chancellor Alistair Darling says our risk is capped at £8billion but
UKIP say we're underwriting billions of euro debt with no veto.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ed Balls, struggling with his tie, above, and Foreign Secretary David
Miliband, right, were tipped as leadership contenders last night
Picture: Pictures: STEVE BACK, MATT CANDY, STEVE BELL & DOMINIC LIPINSKI/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 11, 2010 Tuesday 2:44 PM GMT

AV and the Cameronisation of the Conservatives

BYLINE: By Robert Colvile

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 602 words


Why did the Conservatives, greatest defenders of first-past-the-post, suddenly
offer the Lib Dems a referendum on electoral reform? Sheer opportunism? Naked
hunger for power? Or was there something else at work?

First things first - what the Tories have offered, the Alternative Vote system
(AV), is not PR. As both Lord Norton and the ghost of Roy Jenkins have pointed
out, it is in many ways less representative than FPTP. And it would, at each of
the most recent elections, have reduced the Tories' share of the vote. So why
are Cameron and co so surprisingly keen?

The answer lies in a simple piece of electoral mathematics. Many critics of
Cameron - a good few of them Telegraph bloggers - have argued that to win power,
the party needs to become properly Conservative again (as they see it) and mop
up the Ukip voters who cost them a majority.

True, Ukip's vote greatly increased at this election - up 50% to 900,000 or so.
But that means that under Michael Howard, when the Tories ran a properly
hard-line campaign, Ukip still got around 600,000 votes. They even got 300,000
in 2001, when William Hague effectively wrapped himself in the Union flag. In
othe words, these people are lost to the Tories unless they campaign on so
Right-wing a platform that it alienates many moderate voters.

Those such as Lord Tebbit would say I am missing the point - that it's not the
hundreds of thousands who turned to Ukip, but the millions of others who didn't
vote. There's some truth to that. But my instinctive position - and that of a
great many others - is that, leaving aside the particular errors made by the
Cameron campaign in terms of message and positioning, the Tories attracted more
voters (or permitted more anti-Labour voters to consider them) by moving to the
centre and detoxifying their brand than they would have by remaining doctrinally
pure. Witness the fact that they received more votes in England than Blair did
last time round in the whole of the UK.

You may be asking what this has to do with PR. The answer's simple. Under a pure
PR system, and faced by an entrenched Lib-Lab majority, it might make sense for
the Tories to move to the Right (on the understanding that they will never pick
up the soft left-of-Centre vote). But AV isn't about who you like the most, but
who you hate the least.

Yes, as the Electoral Reform Society points out in a generally disappoving
study, AV exaggerates landslides (PDF), 'because a strong tide towards a party
reflected in first preferences will tend... to also affect second preferences'.
But looking at the 're-runs' of past elections under different variants of PR,
the most significant change under AV is in 1997, when the Tories' already woeful
performance turns into a complete collapse, placing them a comfortable third
behind the Lib Dems.

For a party to gain a majority under AV, it needs to secure not only voters'
active support, but their passive tolerance - to be sure that it makes it as a
second or third preference. This is something that a Tory party that has moved
to the Right would find impossible - but a party that keeps to the Cameron
course of centrist modernisation could give a credible shot (on the
understanding that it will mop up the second preferences of Ukip supporters as
the least worst remaining option).

So, to cut a long story short, the Cameron team may be offering AV in the
expectation that it will be defeated, either in the Commons or in a popular
plebiscite. But if it does get through, and has the side-effect of entrenching
the Cameron tendency at the expense of the unreconstructed Right, would they
really be that sad?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 11, 2010 Tuesday 11:23 AM GMT

Clever Mr Clegg gobbled up the Tories' concessions, then sprang his trap

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 873 words


[Update: I've just seen that David Cameron has told the Lib Dems to put up or
shut up. That's the right thing for him to say.]

The roots of the continental-style electoral shambles afflicting this kingdom go
deep. Sufficient to say for the moment that the Conservatives polled 10.6
million votes, more than 3 million fewer than they regularly scored through the
postwar era.Labour scored 8.6 million against Blair's 1997 total of 13.5
million. This is their lowest total (with the exception of 8.4 million in 1983)
since 1935.In contrast, the Lib Dems did well with 6.8 million, but still not as
well as the Alliance (their parent party) who scored 7.8 millionin 1983 and7.3
million in 1987 against Margaret Thatcher.

I know that I am in danger of becoming a bore by going on about the numbers,
rather than the percentages of votes cast for the parties, but the numbers of
votes cast for a partyare akin to the cash flow of a company. The percentages
are more like the profit and loss account, which as we know can easily be used
to distract shareholders from afalling cash flow, until the cash runs out and
the business goes bust.

It was the failure of Cameron's Conservatives to get back to the historic levels
of support for the party which left him vulnerable to Mr Clegg.But it has to be
said that Mr Clegg has played his hand with great skill.

Once Mr Cameron had rejected the advice ofsome of us who had seen all this
before (or even read of it) to sit tight and make plain his willingness to form
a minority government and go it alone, he was at the mercy of Mr Clegg.

The Tory team were easily led to believe that Mr Clegg had no option but to
support a Tory-led coalition, or to subside into parliamentary impotence. In
fact, they had.A Lib Dem-NuLab coalition with the support of other "progressive"
nationalist parties could be cobbled together and once Mr Clegg had gobbled up
all the Tories' concessions, he sprang his trap. It was announced that he had
secured even more from NuLab, including the resignation of the Prime Minister
himself. Now he is back to the Tories, suggesting that they might like to entice
him into their planned coalition with a few more goodies. The Tories may have
thought that they were the only bidders for the favours of Mr Clegg, but now
they know they were not.

The next step in this drama could be a call from Mr Clegg explaining that he
could not sell the deal he had made with the Tories to the Lib Dem Party (which
has a veto on such matters).Sadly, he would say to Mr Cameron, with whom we are
told he gets along very well, that he would have to have a few more concessions,
or he would have to go off with NuLab.

At that stage, as he looked at the scalp of Mr Brown displayed prominently on Mr
Clegg's belt, Mr Cameron might begin to feel very uneasy indeed. It would be one
thing to sacrifice Mr. Osborne to make MrCable the Chancellor, or Mr. Hague to
make Mr Clegg Foreign Secretary, but there are limits, you know.

So there are a number of twists and turnsthat may yetcome in this plot.

In the meantime, Mr Darling has come back from Brussels having had another 10
billion or so added to our contingent liabilities.What an appetite for cash the
EU elephant has!Our troops are still dying in Blair's wars, uncounted immigrants
are flooding in,we are getting deeper intodebt and the allegations of
ballot-rigging are growing.

Did I hear someone say this is "all in the national interest of securing stable
government"?

As I said a while ago, I would not have started from here. To put it bluntly,
all three major parties are simultaneouslyless popular today than in the recent
past, and that is why we are in the mess we are in today.

I am sorry that I cannot answer the more than 300 comments on my last blog post,
but I have read them all.

I am concerned that so many of my fellow English citizens are ready to give up
on Scotland.That would delight our friends on the mainland of Europe. It was an
objective of French foreign policy for many years.A weaker United Kingdom would
be a stronger government in Brussels.The Scots are not natural socialists. They
are a sturdy self-reliant lot outside the welfare colonies in Glasgow. What
Scotland needs is a Right of centreScottish Unionist Party, and for my party to
pack up north of the border.

'Webmaster'said that any regional government in Westminster would be punished
for dancing to Brussels' tune.Maybe, but not half as much as if it did not dance
to Brussels' tune!

To 'aasvogel' and 'wattyler'I have to say that I have neither the power to
"overthrow Cameron", nor "to beat sense" into the Tories.

It was very good of 'James1' to apologise personally to me. I'm used to hard
knocks but it is still nice when we observecivilities.Thank you.

I thought Johnny Rottenborough's caculations that the BNP might have cost Labour
15 seats was very interesting. And I guess there is a similar calculation about
UKIP and the Tories.

'eddyburke' wanted to know how a Tory minority government would get its business
through.By daringthe others to bring it down and face the wrath of the electors
in a general election in which they might lose their seats.

No doubt we will all be glued to our screens for a few days yet. This show will
run and run, as they say.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday

A VERY WELCOME PINT FOR FARAGE

LENGTH: 197 words


ONLY three days after his light aircraft crashed, Nigel Farage was back in the
place he loved best yesterday his local pub.

The former leader of UKIP was released from hospital on Saturday and returned
home to Kent, where regulars were only too happy to buy him a pint at the George
and Dragon.

The outspoken MEP suffered broken ribs, bruised lungs and cuts to his face in
the election day accident on the morning of election day.

His aircraft, piloted by Justin Adams, nose-dived when the UKIP banner it was
towing got caught up in the tail.

Speaking from his cottage in Westerham, Mr Farage said: 'I've been meeting local
people, but I'm pretty tired after going down to the village. It's going to be a
case of taking it little by little.

'It's good to be home, and it's good to see my children - and it's good thing
I'm still around.'

Mr Farage called himself the 'luckiest man alive' after managing to walk from
the wreckage of the plane, having feared he would burn to death after the crash
as fuel leaked from the tank.

He was unable to attend the count where Commons Speaker John Bercow, whom he had
been standing against, was re-elected to his Buckingham seat. Mr Farage came
third.

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Proportional representation would compromise links between MPs and their
constituencies;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 967 words


SIR - Gordon Brown's belated recognition of the need "to restore the public
trust in politics and to improve Parliament's standing and reputation" is to be
welcomed (report, May 8).

However, his belief that the introduction of a fairer voting system is central
to this is misplaced. The government he led was elected in 2005 by 35.3 per cent
of those who voted, or 21.6 per cent of the electorate. That did not stop him
using his massive parliamentary majority to renege on his government's
commitment to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty. David Cameron has been
supported in the election by 36.1 per cent of those voting, more than 1.1
million more than those who voted for the Labour government in 2005.

To move to a system of proportional representation would destroy, or at least
seriously compromise, the link between members of parliament and their
constituencies. This link, which ensures that MPs still feel obliged to
"represent" their constituents, is the principal reason why there is any
residual respect for politics and politicians in this country.

If we want to change to a "presidential" system and elect our prime minister
directly, we should adopt a proportional representation system. If not, we
should make the system fairer by equalising constituencies in terms of voter
populations.

There is a wholly inaccurate perception that the damaging uncertainty in the
present political situation has been caused by the "discredited
first-past-thepost system" as Lord Tyler describes it (Letters, May 8). On the
contrary, if we were to adopt a PR voting system, we would have this kind of
behind-thescenes deal-broking after every election. In a situation like the
current one, the bargaining power of the third party is disproportionately
increased because it holds the balance of power.

Gordon Brown's anticipation of this kind of inconclusive result and his
concomitant need for time to try to stitch up a deal with the Liberal Democrats
is the reason why Parliament will not sit until May 18, 12 days after the
election.

Since the Second World War, Parliament has normally sat six days after the
election, as in all the last seven General Elections, except in 1992 when the
election was held the week before Easter. Parliament should have been convened
from this coming Wednesday.

If Mr Brown really believed he had a constitutional right to remain Prime
Minister, he should have recalled Parliament and tried to win a vote of
confidence. Viscount Trenchard London SW1 SIR - Your report "How Ukip cost
Tories a clear majority" (May 8) lets David Cameron off lightly.

Last June, and twice since, he refused Ukip's offer to stand aside and help the
Conservatives win the general election, in return for a binding referendum on
our EU membership. This guarantee would have been in the open for months, would
have been in the Conservative manifesto, and on its own would have given the
Conservatives a comfortable majority.

In the event, we did not stand against a few Eurosceptic Conservative candidates
in very marginal seats, whom we wanted also to help. Mr Cameron ordered four of
them not to be seen in public with me but we helped them anyway in varying
degrees, with leaflets and support in their local press. They averaged an
increase of 10,000 votes each, with 50 per cent of the turnout and an eight per
cent swing in their favour.

Mr Cameron threw the election away because he would not honour his promise to
hold a referendum on Lisbon "whatever the outcome of the negotiations". Dare we
hope that Mr Cameron has learned his lesson for next time round? Lord Pearson of
Rannoch Leader, Ukip London SW1 SIR - Why, when this country teeters on the edge
of financial disaster and urgent action is required to avoid it, is PR the most
important issue on people's minds? Mike Weston Pulborough, West Sussex SIR -
Although Lib Dems and Conservatives have very different visions of Europe,
within the European Parliament our two parties have worked positively and
productively together on many key issues.

Such partnership has been particularly critical in securing the individual
opt-out on the Working Time Directive, where Labour MEPs were - and are - on the
opposite side of the argument. Philip Bushill-Matthews MEP 1999-2009 Former
Leader of the Conservative MEPs Harbury, Warwickshire SIR - It's not surprising
that queues of voters formed. The register was so bafflingly arranged that it
took several minutes to find my name. On a long road with thousands of
residents, mainly, but not all, residing in flats, a register needs to be easy
for the clerk to use.

Grouped, but not sequenced by postcode, it was almost impossible to fathom.

Nicola Hill London SE16 SIR - If voting had been compulsory, would those turned
away from the polling stations be facing a fine? Marcel Hinde Sheffield, South
Yorkshire SIR - George Mahoney (Letters, May 8) states that the ballot paper he
was given had the name of the candidate and also the description "Nick Clegg's
Liberal Party". This is impossible.

The Liberal Party name belongs to The Liberal Party (yes, we still exist) and
not the Lib Dems.

Jenny Roach Nominating Officer for the Liberal Party Silverton, Exeter SIR - We
have known for some time of Gordon Brown's difficulty in forming the word
"sorry". Thanks to the election, we now know he has a similar problem uttering
the word "lost".

Paul Harrison Chelmsford, Essex SIR - Yesterday, I had an email from David
Cameron thanking me for voting Conservative on Thursday. How does he know I
voted Conservative? Trevor Anderson Bristol SIR - Now we are not allowed to be
racist or sexist, might we not also stop being wealthist? Why, for example, does
the BBC find it necessary to always call the new MP for Richmond Park the
"multimillionaire" Zac Goldsmith? Jack Debnam Watford, Hertfordshire

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A House of Lords monitor shows the Queen opening Parliament, as she
will on May 25
AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cameron's PR coup to wrong-foot Labour;
Commentary Cameron risks ire of party over voting reform

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 998 words


THE full extent of David Cameron's audacity is beginning to emerge.

He is offering to trade reform of the voting system for a two-year deal with
Nick Clegg that would deliver economic and social change and, in particular, the
painful cuts needed to reduce the deficit. Suddenly, it is the Conservatives who
are the radicals.

Until now the Liberal Democrats looked to Labour to deliver "fair votes" - their
catchphrase for replacing the existing first-past-the-post system with something
that better matches the number of votes cast with the number of seats each party
gets in the Commons. Tony Blair led them up the garden path before 1997, only to
go back on his word once he was safely in No10 with a thumping majority.

Now in a twist that is causing consternation among some Tories, it is Mr Cameron
who is in a position to deliver what Labour could not: a new way of electing
MPs, which might be just enough to persuade Mr Clegg to throw in his lot with
the Conservatives. The powersharing deal could make Mr Cameron prime minister
within 48 hours.

Just as it took the Rightwing Likud Party in Israel to broker peace with Egypt,
or the Tories to start peace talks with the IRA, so it looks as if Mr Cameron
has bucked convention in an attempt to redefine British politics in his favour.

Insiders say his priority is to agree a formal deal, possibly even a coalition,
with Mr Clegg that would secure Lib Dem agreement for Tory proposals to reform
the education and welfare systems and, in particular, for immediate spending
cuts.

In exchange he would agree to hold a referendum on the proposals for voting
reform developed by a new commission of inquiry that would conclude during this
Parliament.

The Lib Dem statement last night that any agreement would have "deficit
reduction and a credible plan for economic recovery" at its heart was taken as
encouragement that Mr Cameron's pitch was working, even if the country and, more
importantly, the markets may have to wait a bit longer for the "stable
government" all sides are promising. Tonight he will address his parliamentary
party, including the 106 newly elected MPs who find themselves being consulted
in a Commons drama before they have even acquired their passes to the building.

But what exactly is he asking them to endorse? Some on the Right fear that he is
going to water down his pledge to insist on repatriating powers from Brussels.
Others are horrified by the idea of giving seats around the Cabinet table to the
Liberal Democrats. Many want assurances that he is not about to abandon the
party's long-standing opposition to proportional representation. And there are
some who regard the uncertain outcome of the election as a reason to air their
grievances about the way the Tory campaign was run.

They see this as their chance to hit back at the tightly knit circle around Mr
Cameron. They reject the leadership's boast that he produced a historic
achievement with the best gain in seats since 1931 and a swing on a par with
Margaret Thatcher's in 1979. Instead they say the campaign in the marginals was
a costly failure that produced patchy results; that Mr Cameron was wrong to
agree to televised debates that gave Nick Clegg a momentary advantage; and that
the party's manifesto - in particular, the notion of a Big Society - was too
confusing for voters. They point out that a 36 per cent share of the vote was
scarcely better than what John Major achieved when the Tories were crushed in
1997. More simply, many Tory MPs question why a deal has to be done with the Lib
Dems at all.

They argue that, despite the hype of the debates, the party lost seats and
emerged even weaker. With Labour contaminated by failure and the continued
presence of Gordon Brown, Mr Clegg is a kingmaker but with only one king to
make.

Tory whips spent the weekend telephoning MPs to take soundings on voting reform.
Mr Cameron called party grandees on Saturday night to assure them that he
remained steadfastly opposed to any form of proportional representation. By
offering backbenchers a free vote in the Commons on whether there should be a
referendum, he knows nearly all of them will vote "no", and may find enough
anti-reform Labour MPs to form a blocking majority.

But senior sources speculate that he could eventually offer the Lib Dems a form
of electoral reform based on the additional vote system (AV) or even the AV-plus
devised by the Lib Dem peer Lord Jenkins - and rejected by Mr Blair - more than
a decade ago. Both maintain the constituency link that Tories say is essential,
and both require voters to express a second preference.

For the Tories this would kill off the UK Independence Party vote which cost
them an estimated 21 seats last week - enough to give them a majority. Even
far-Right Tories have spotted this opportunity. Mr Cameron is focused on
delivering what his party wants: power.

To that end he is prepared to deal in ways that some in his party find hard to
swallow. Officially, there has been no offer so far on electoral reform but he
also wants certainty that his Lib Dem allies will vote with him in the Commons
when it matters. He wants to bind them in to the hard decisions ahead. To that
end he is prepared to go much further than his party perhaps realises.

But he also recognises that he has been presented with a chance to recast the
Conservatives as the party of the centre that is keeping pace with public
demands - if not for the obscurities of PR, then for a new politics in which
leaders act pragmatically in the national interest.

There are more negotiations to come. It may be that Mr Clegg is the one who will
face greater difficulties in persuading his party to do a deal that requires
them to share responsibility for the pain. Labour has offered to ditch Gordon
Brown in exchange for a coalition. In which case Mr Cameron will go it alone,
knowing that when the next election comes, possibly this year, no one will be
able to fault his willingness to try anything to deliver stable government.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 10, 2010 Monday

General election 2010: I'm still expecting a Conservative minority government

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 860 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: I can't see how David Cameron and Nick Clegg can both square
their parties on electoral reform

FULL TEXT

Day four of our brave new world and things are not working out quite as many of
us expected, though I'm still expecting a Tory minority government in the end -
what end? - because I can't see how David Cameron and Nick Clegg can both square
their parties on electoral reform.

What has surprised me is that talks between the Tories and the Lib Dems are
still in progress. By this stage in 1974 it was all over for outgoing Tory PM
Ted Heath, who couldn't give the then-Liberals enough on PR to win them over.

Will that happen again? That's my stubborn hunch, but it's looking as if I might
be wrong. With every hour that passes, a deal with Labour, especially Brown-led
Labour, looks more forlorn, and pressure mounts on Cameron and Clegg to patch up
something.

Something? Anything. In the past hour both Sir John Major and Lord David Steel -
co-author with Jim Callaghan of the 1977-78 Lib-Lab pact - have been on the
airwaves stressing that, whatever the deal is, the markets will expect and the
national interest demand that it to be durable for a stable, specified time, one
year, two, four...

That sounds about right. "I do not think this is a dance that can go on for too
long," says Major in a Majorish way, while subtly twisting the knife on
Cameron's behalf to the effect that a deal with Brown is worthless: he cannot
deliver what he promises.

That argument cuts both ways, of course. Cameron is not flavour of the week on
the Tory right, where slow learners think he would have won handsomely on a more
reactionary manifesto and point to up to six seats lost to the Ukip split vote.

Since they include David Heathcoat-Amory at Wells, defeated by half the size of
the Ukip vote that proves little more than bovine stubbornness. DH-A was just
about the most Euro-sceptic Tory MP.

But the right will mistrust whatever Cameron can cook up with Clegg just as many
Lib Dems, fearing that the Tories want to "eat them up" (as the Guardian's
leader puts it), will be fearful if Clegg manages to make any kind of deal
whatsoever.

"We can't rush into electoral reform," says flexible Major. "Oh yes, we can,"
reply zealous reformers.

"We have waited long enough, it's so unfair, first-past-the-post voting is a
Victorian anachronism." No it's not - and the Victorians were solider citizens
than we are in so many ways - it's just a different way of doing things.

Even I can see the case for change in a more fragmented, plural society. But
there's no rush and Clegg must know - even if his own dafter followers don't -
that the economic crisis is more urgent by a very long way.

He dare not force another early election any more than battered,
soon-to-be-leaderless Labour can. They don't have any money, the voters don't
want one and they would lose it anyway. By winning nearly 100 seats the Tories
have done the hard bit, they would win easily - especially if the economic storm
blew in again.

One development which is giving them a breathing space is that : raging over
protracted crisis over Greece's debts and the eurozone. Alistair Darling, still
chancellor at the time of writing, is on radio and TV reporting that they've
stitched up a 500bn wuro (£436bn) euro support package in which Britain's
exposure is much smaller than tabloid scaremongering suggested.

It's still scary stuff and the dipsy market panic over sovereign debt could yet
spread to other countries in the group of PIGS (Portugal, Ireland, Greece and
Spain), also to Britain unless we quickly get a government capable of taking
decisions.

The  very reasonably points out that the Lib Dems are a party of the left, with
much more in common with a chastened post-Brown Labour party than with the
Tories. All true, but it's not where we are.

Labour has lost the election, Brown is hanging on - he's about to overtake Ted
Heath for stickability - and it is far from clear who his successor would be.
Even as acting leader, Harriet Harman might not be the right man to steady
markets or appease the baying tabloids.

So it looks as if Clegg's deal is realistically with the Tories. After all, as
Tony Travers writes in today's paper, it's not as if they aren't in partnership
in towns and cities all over Britain.

Ah yes, but what about that free Commons vote on electoral reform (in principle
or detail?) or that referendum (ditto), it's the Lib Dem Holy Grail and
Cleggster will be in trouble if he puts any sort of national interest ahead of
it.

Lib Dem historians know we have been here before. In 1930-31 the troubled Labour
minority government of Ramsay MacDonald cut a deal on AV ( Gordon Brown's
formula today) with Lloyd George. It was swept away in August 1931 when Britain
was forced off the gold standard and the Great Depression got really serious.

A coalition - the Tory-dominated national government - duly emerged and AV sank
below the waves again. It may all come to this in the current economic crisis,
this month or in months to come. But first I still expect Cameron to be forced -
by both parties - to try it alone.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 10, 2010 Monday

Farewell, Interpol's Carlos D ...

BYLINE: Paul Moodyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 439 words

ABSTRACT

Paul Moody: The infamous bassist boasted a look that was equal parts Hitler
Youth, Crispin Glover and the Count from Sesame Street. Now that he has left
Interpol, we may never see his like again

FULL TEXT

OK, so it's not quite Paul McCartney leaving the Beatles or Glen Matlock getting
fired from the Sex Pistols, but news of Carlos Dengler's  will pull at the
bass-strings of anyone whose interest in indie rock can be carbon dated to the
start of the century.

Part of a flood of talent to make even UKIP reconsider their stance on foreign
work permits, Interpol (along with the Strokes and the White Stripes) reminded
us just how thrilling rock'n'roll could be, providing a desperately needed
response to the introspective witterings of Coldplay (famously dubbed by Alan
McGee at the time as "music for bedwetters").

If the Strokes provided the swagger and Jack and Meg had the mystery, then it
was Interpol who supplied the style. Brooding nu-goth exuding bespoke Manhattan
cool, they possessed a secret weapon no other band could match - bassist Carlos
D. With a style that was equal parts Lower East Side night vulture, Hitler Youth
member, vampiric Crispin Glover and , Dengler took every goth-rock cliche and
added a touch of . Clumpy black jackboots? Check. Playing bass at knee level?
Check. Wearing, er, a gun holster? Check.

While the rest of the pack gleefully mined rock's past for their look and
attitude, Dengler strode the stage like a poker-faced colossus: living proof
that  really did exist (Dengler is, disconcertingly, of German and Colombian
descent).

As the years progressed, so did Dengler's look. On the band's last world tour he
was sporting an extravagant moustache, a waistcoat and a bootlace tie like a
gunslinger from .

His musical contribution wasn't bad either. Responsible for the band's symphonic
keyboard parts, Dengler's bass playing also supplied genuine swing - check out
the disjointed disco throb of .

Of course, for seasoned 'Pol watchers, the departure of their favourite member
won't come as any great surprise. A philosophy graduate and committed
"sensualist" who quickly tired of pop stardom, Dengler always seemed destined
for life beyond indie rock (he's already written and co-produced the short film
).

As for the rest of Interpol, with a new album in the bag (completed before
Dengler's departure) the future still seems bright - as storming brand new track
Lights proves.

One question remains, however: who could possibly replace him? Thoughts?

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                  May 10, 2010
                                 First Edition

Jamie Carragher puts his club before his country. Why is that a problem?;
TALKING FOOTBALL ENGLAND

BYLINE: SAM WALLACE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1126 words


It is a question that occurred to me this weekend as the predictable accusations
were levelled at Jamie Carragher for once admitting his ambivalence towards the
England team to which he will now return. How patriotic would the critics like
him to be?

Are we talking a Union Jack waistcoat? Or an interest in commemorative Royal
Family tableware? Perhaps he could atone by raising a novelty sized St George's
Cross in his front garden, just to reassure everyone how much he loves the Three
Lions and all that.

Carragher's return to the England World Cup squad which Fabio Capello names
tomorrow is a relief. England do not have enough good players to be able to
spare the likes of Carragher to early retirement - and there is an argument for
saying that, were he available, Paul Scholes might still make the current squad.
To reject these players on the charge of insufficient patriotism is frankly
ludicrous.

The charge against Carragher was his autobiography confession that playing for
England was not as important to him as playing for Liverpool. In chapter seven
of "Carra, My Autobiography" at no point is he dismissive of England; he simply
admits that they come second to Liverpool. "I wasn't uncaring or indifferent,"
Carragher wrote. "I simply didn't put England's fortunes at the top of my
priority list."

It touches a nerve in the psyche of the English; the psyche that makes the
absurd assumption that every player should value playing for their country above
their clubs. But why should they?

International football is a cherished aspect of our game. It is an intriguing
stage on which we measure our best against their best. It is an opportunity to
test the quality of our national game and the footballers we produce against
different football cultures. But for lots of players and supporters, it is an
interesting diversion from club football rather than the absolute pinnacle of
the game.

Not everyone would agree with that. Some still believe that international
football is the ultimate honour. Some think that, in a World Cup year, anything
short of painting your face with a St George's Cross, boycotting French cheese
and voting UKIP amounts to gross disloyalty. That's fine - but not everyone
feels the same.

Carragher's fairly mild assertion that he valued Liverpool more than England is
not even a new phenomenon. In his autobiography the friend he texts in the
after-math of his penalty miss against Portugal at the 2006 World Cup finals is
Kenny Dalglish and Dalglish would know all about having mixed feelings over
playing for his country.

In the days when Dalglish, Graeme Souness and Alan Hansen would get the train
north from Liverpool for international weeks, they were under no illusions about
how the Hampden Park crowd felt about them. There was even a debate in Scotland
about whether "Anglo-Scots" - those who played outside the Scottish league -
should be permitted to play for the national team.

Hansen once said that for Scotland internationals, "I used to warm up alongside
Graeme because he was the only player the crowd disliked more than me." Could
any of those players have been blamed for feeling a greater loyalty to their
club than to their country?

Football is full of stories of players who treated their national team as a flag
of convenience and others who must have nurtured much graver private doubts
about the country they represented. The great France striker Just Fontaine
scored a record 13 goals at the 1958 World Cup, but as a French-Moroccan he must
have had misgivings about representing a country that had only just relinquished
control of Morocco amid great violence.

When Roy Keane was taunted by Patrick Vieira for turning his back on the
Republic of Ireland, the former succinctly pointed out that Vieira had done
exactly the same to his native Senegal. The Manchester United midfielder Darron
Gibson was born in Northern Ireland but plays for the Republic - presumably
because he feels it offers him the best chance of playing at a major tournament.

And everyone knows that this summer's World Cup will include plenty of players
whose chief connection to the country they play for is their passport - such as
Deco and Liedson, two Brazilians naturalised by Portugal. The Switzerland squad
will in all likelihood include players born in Cape Verde, DR Congo and Kosovo.
Capello, lest we forget, is still Italian.

Playing for the country that they represent in international football will mean
something different to all these players. For some, perhaps the North Koreans,
it will be a duty undertaken with some trepidation. For others, like the
Trinidad and Tobago players or many of the Togo squad at the last World Cup, it
will begin as a patriotic mission and end in recriminations over unpaid bonuses
and corrupt officials.

Carragher was only being honest about his feelings for England; something that
most of the current squad are reluctant to do. In private, many of them would
admit they like the prestige of playing for England but they could do without
the mid-season friendlies in Qatar or the booing they are sometimes subjected to
at Wembley.

You can complain ceaselessly about most aspects of English life: the
politicians, the house prices, the weather but woe betide any footballer who
says that playing for the national football team is not the greatest honour he
could conceive of. We send our players into every tournament with an
extraordinary burden of pressure; they should not have to pretend that they love
every minute of it.

FULHAM

Seven could turn out to be Fulham's unlucky number

No one would wish to rain on Fulham's parade this week but the fact that they
have seven of their Europa League final players out of contract at the end of
next season, including Danny Murphy, Mark Schwarzer, Paul Konchesky and Zoltan
Gera, makes you wonder if they have thought the strategy through.

With their manager such a hot property and the expectations likely to be much
higher next season it demonstrates a great deal of confidence on the club's
behalf. If more than half the first team are potentially leaving they must have
a good Plan B.

A:3K FOOTBALL

Now this is just the little earner tired footballers need

You might have heard of the A:3K Football event scheduled at the O2 Arena in
July; a multimillion-pound sponsors' wet-dream with big names like Didier
Drogba, Cristiano Ronaldo and Steven Gerrard being paid a fortune to compete in
school sports day-style challenges against one another.

With the music and the "futuristic set" it sounds like the kind of thing an
eight-year-old might dream up after one too many sugary drinks. Without wishing
to sound like a misery, is this really the best pre-season for a lot of very
well-paid men who will just have played in a World Cup finals?

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

SHELLEY VISION;
ELECTION-FREE ZONE'S RIGHT UP MY STREET

BYLINE: JIM SHELLEY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1405 words


THEY were the words no Coronation Street viewer wanted to hear.

"Blanche is dead," said Ken, confirming that the Street's most waspish queen,
played by the recently-deceased Maggie Jones, really had carped her last.

"Dead!" cried her daughter Deirdre, so stunned it took her two ad breaks and an
episode of Countrywise to respond. "How can she be? She's in Portugal!" Will you
tell her or shall I? "What you need is a good cry," said Ken, as supportive as
ever. Deirdre duly spent the rest of the week sobbing, honking away like a goose
being sucked into a Hoover.

"I think this is one of those days when we're allowed to smoke indoors," Deirdre
told Liz later, trying to cheer herself.

In EastEnders, those political sages Minty and Darren discussed the implications
of a hung parliament but there was no sign of election fever in Weatherfield.

Instead, events were taken up with Mary's hilarious kidnapping of Norris Cole in
Bronte Country, ex-cons Becky and Steve's attempts to adopt and the affecting
aftermath of Blanche's death.

As Norris and Mary, Malcolm Hebden and Patti Clare "enjoyed themselves
enormously" acting out Stephen King's Misery in miniature.

"I do so love the smell of a fresh pepper, the feel of it against the skin,"
sighed Mary, dementedly rubbing it across her face. "I'm a sensationist. Are you
Norris? I love the rough, the smooth, heat, cold."

"Are you feeling all right Mary?" quivered Norris back.

To the strains of a Spanish guitar, Mary recalled her sojourn to the Meseta
Central.

"I was so hot... I pulled over on to the side of the Vestigio di Tierra,
stripped out of my lemon loungers, and carried on completely naked.

"Oh the liberation Norris!"

"You're a fruitbat, woman!" Norris protested.

"You sound like mother!"

Meanwhile, dressed as Clare, Becky was desperate to impress the woman from
Social Services. "If you apply to adopt," she told Becky, "we'd need to speak to
various people who know you. Your family, close friends. Oh, and ex-partners."

"What, all of them?!" Becky spluttered.

With all this talk of parenthood, even Sean remembered that he was a dad. "Does
Violet never even drop you a line?" wondered Fizz. No. Neither do the
scriptwriters who have refused him any dialogue about baby Dylan ever since he
and Violet fled to t'smoke.

The link between Becky and Steve's adoption and Blanche's death took a while to
emerge.

First, we were treated to bravura performances from Anne Kirkbride as Deirdre
and 84-year-old legend June Whitfield as Blanche's friend May. "I found me mum's
funeral bag!" Deirdre cheered. "I thought I might start using it, starting with
hers."

A truly touching gesture. "You're the double of her," May told her. "It's like
looking at her corpse."

She explained how in Portugal, Blanche had met Arnold, who regarded her as "the
nicest person he'd ever met."

"With the sun on her specs and the breeze on her slacks, she was a different
person."

By Friday night, Becky and Steve were celebrating.

"Nothing can stop us now,"

Steve promised her as they passed the adoption interview.

Cut to Tracy Barlow's face as she secured permission to attend her gran
Blanche's funeral, suggesting the murderous bitch is intent on having a good
try.

Still, all the talk of Blanche's death was deeply poignant. Young Simon was
"devastated" according to Peter. Even Ken was feeling Blanche's loss. "She was
there. She made her presence felt!"

She certainly did. "I miss her."

Won't we all?

ASK A STUPID QUESTION..

MILITARY intelligence officer: "You didn't think it worth mentioning Porter's
been off active service for nearly eight years, has borderline posttraumatic
stress disorder, 10% weakness in one arm and what effectively amounts to a
dishonourable discharge?" - Apart from that he's OK? (Strike Back)

Comics beat the pundits

CHANNEL 4's Alternative Election Night was good fun, if a little long. Still,
with just three results declared by midnight, it was better than all the
ill-informed speculation taking place on BBC1 and ITV.

Gag of the night went to David Mitchell: "Does David Cameron actually find his
wife attractive? Or like everyone else, just feels he ought to?"

Jimmy Carr was less subtle, and came over all Ben Elton: "This is the most
exciting election for 35 years. Margaret Thatcher can't remember a better
election. Or the names of her children." Ouch!

Armando Iannucci, writer of The Thick of It, recalled his highlight of the 1997
election: "I did a live comedy show from this studio. My abiding memory of the
entire election was sitting afterwards on a beer-sodden carpet next to Valerie
Singleton watching Michael Portillo lose." And on that bombshell...

Cooking up some laughs

NARRATOR Dave Lamb was in good form on Come Dine With Me's Election Special.

"Hi, Edwina," oozed former Liverpool councillor Derek Hatton. "Nice to see you."

"Liar!" chipped in Lamb. "You look wonderful," grovelled Rod Little. "No she
doesn't."

His comments about gay former policeman Brian Paddick were fruitier than Carry
On Camping.

"Here's something to shut them up," Lamb cheered.

"Brian's Coq! Au vin." "Unfortunately," Paddick admitted after wolfing down
Edwina's Eton Mess. "I'm addicted to cream."

"And the dessert?" asked Lamb.

Iggy Pop (Later With Jools Holland) What a sweetheart

Richard Armitage (Strike Back) Growling, smouldering hunk o' man

Ant breaks Guinness World Record for eating After Eights Britain HAS Got Talent

Manics' guitarist James Bradfield (I'm In A Rock 'n' Roll Band) Failing to
master This Charming Man

When Moyles Met The Radio 1 DJs Fat hairy cornflakes of the world unite

Lauren Laverne (Channel 4's Alternative Election Night) Never knowingly funny

Insult of the week

"SHE doesn't care about alibis.

She's a malignant narcissist."

- DCI Luther on killer Alice Morgan (Luther)

Showbiz revelation of the week

JOOLS Holland: "Where were you living when The Stooges made Raw Power?" Iggy
Pop: "We were living in Fulham. Near the Fulham ABC."

(Later With Jools Holland)

Gag of the week

"THE final result is now up in the air. Unlike UKIP's plane."

- Jo Brand (Have I Got Election News For You)

Wit of the week

DAD: "Listen Karen. Jesus was not crucified on Friday the 13th." Ben: "It was
Friday though wasn't it?" Mum: "Yeah it was Good Friday."

Ben: "Good Friday? That's a weird name for a day when somebody gets crucified."

(Outnumbered)

The dog ate my homework

"THE gun was in the dog."

- DCI Luther realises his suspect Alice Morgan put the murder weapon inside the
dead dog, cremated by the police, thus destroying it for her (Luther)

D'OH

"THE key reason I didn't vote was because I live in Tatton which is George
Osborne's seat - a pretty safe Tory seat." - panellist Sam Palin (Channel 4's
Alternative Election Night). Well it would be if you don't vote

Unpleasant image of the week

"YOU don't know how to keep your legs crossed!" - Peggy to, um, Fat Pat Cabs
(EastEnders)

Statistic of the week

INSTANCES of officers shouting: "go, go, go!" in Chris Ryan's Strike Back:
three.

Philosopher of the week

"IF you want to do some seriously good music, it should be handled lightly. I
think there's somebody Chinese once said 'treat great things lightly. And vice
versa." - Iggy Pop (Later... With Jools Holland)

Cheeky girl of the week

"AND on Paul's team is one of the few politicians who knows what the future
holds for him." - Jo Brand on guest Lembit Opik the day after he was voted out
of the Commons (Have I Got Election News For You)

Well he said it

"POLITICS is showbusiness for ugly people." - Brian Paddick quotes Texas
political consultant Bill Miller (Come Dine With Me Election Special)

Florence Nightingale of the week

SAINT Charlie Fairhead: "Where's the envelope?" Junior doctor May Phelps: "I
sent it up the chute... "

Charlie: "You're going to spread anthrax all the way through this hospital!"

(Casualty)

Dixon of Dock Green of the week

INTERESTING tactic by CID officers Max Carter and Terry Perkins in The Bill as
they raided a house full of men trafficking young girls. "Stay there!" they
growled as they ran past them up the stairs. Does that work?!

NICE GUY OF THE WEEK

"THEN I had a car crash. Rod never came to see me once in hospital. When I came
out of my coma, I picked up the Melody Maker and found out he'd joined The
Faces, thank you very much!"

- Jeff Beck on The Jeff Beck Group's lead singer Rod Stewart (I'm In A Rock 'n'
Roll Band)

"A lot of ordinary working class fellas in Liverpool do eat brown rice now."
..AND ON THAT BOMBSHELL

Derek Hatton (Come Dine With Me Election Special)

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: GRIEF Deirdre weeps

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage joy after air crash

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 79 words


EX-UKIP leader Nigel Farage told of his delight at being back home yesterday
after his light aircraft crash.

The dad of four, 46, suffered multiple injuries, including broken ribs, in the
polling day accident near Brackley, Northants. The pilot also survived.

The MEP, who managed a trip to the pub on his return to Westerham, Kent, said:
"It's good to see my children.

It's a good thing I'm still around."

Farage was contesting Buckingham. Speaker John Bercow, the sitting MP, won.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 10, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Secret diary of Rikki Brown aged 52 1/4

BYLINE: RIKKI Brown

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 250 words


SNOOKER match-fixing? Well, it is a bit suspicious that the world championship
trophy has every winner right up to 2025. Barry Hearn told John Higgins: "It
doesn't look good." True. A waistcoat on a podgy bloke never does.

THE FBI quickly captured the man who tried to set off a car bomb in Times Square
in New York, because they released a very accurate description of the suspect:
Male, stupid enough to still be driving a Toyota.

TV chef Heston Blumenthal is to produce hospital food. Basically you'll wake up
from an appendicts op to find Heston serving you what he calls Your Appendicts à
la florentine on a bed of garlic drizzled rocket and cress.

SCIENTISTS have invented a nasal spray that makes men sensitive because it
contains the cuddle hormone. Scotsmen want it explained in layman's terms. We
know what a hormone is but don't know what a cuddle is.

UKIP's Nigel Farage was in an air crash. I wonder if there's any truth to
Nigel's claim that the crash was caused by volcanic ash. Volcanic ash that Nigel
says immigrated illegally into UK airspace from Iceland.

EVERY year 18million people in the UK injure themselves having sex. Injuries
include carpet burns, cricked necks and broken bones caused by taking Viagra,
tripping over and pole-vaulting through the bedroom window.

MOHAMED Al Fayed has sold Harrods for £1.6billion. The new owners say they will
continue to cater for the very, very rich and, to get this message across, they
will be changing the shop's name to Million Poundstretchers.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 10, 2010 Monday 10:16 PM GMT

Peter Hain is wrong - most of the electorate did not want a hung parliament

BYLINE: By Harry Mount

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 116 words


He's just been on the BBC News claiming that the electorate didn't want a
particular party to win. Erm, no, you're wrong, Peter.

Yes, perhaps a certain proportion of voters wanted the result we ended up with.
But, in any election, there are always a hard line group of around 20 per cent
of voters who are diehard Tories andanother 20 per cent who are diehard Labour.
Ditto, in smaller numbers, for the Lib Dems, the Scottish Nationalists, UKIP etc
etc.

To say, as Hain was saying, that no one wanted a particular party in power is to
imply that any one party has as much right as anotherto form a coalition with
the Lib Dems. And that was the see-through little game that Hain was playing
this evening.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 10, 2010 Monday 7:40 PM GMT

UK Election live blog

BYLINE: By Will Heaven

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 5702 words


Refresh this page for the latest updates. See General Election 2010 latest: live
for the Telegraph's parallel article. Will Heaven (WH) and Damian Thompson (DT)
and Robert Colvile (RC) write.

See the                                            Telegraph Blogs homepage
for more live analysis.

7.38pm                     Guido tweets: "Don't you love a bit of chaos?"

7.27pm (WH) William Hague has announced that the Tories will offer the Lib Dems
a referendum on AV. He clarified, however, that the Tories would be free to
campaign against it in a referendum campaign. Labour, said Hague, would offer AV
without a referendum. And here's a reminder about just what AV is (from the
Electoral Reform Society):

The Alternative Vote (AV) is very much like First-Past-the-Post (FPTP). Like
FPTP, it is used to elect representatives for single-member constituencies,
except that rather than simply marking one solitary 'X' on the ballot paper, the
voter has the chance to rank the candidates on offer.

The voter thus puts a '1' by their first-preference candidate, and can continue,
if they wish, to put a '2' by their second-preference, and so on, until they
don't care anymore or they run out of names. In some AV elections, such as most
Australian elections, electors are required to rank all candidates.

If a candidate receives a majority of first-preference votes (more people put
them as number one than all the rest combined), then they are elected.

If no candidate gains a majority on first preferences, then the
second-preference votes of the candidate who finished last on the first count
are redistributed. This process is repeated until someone gets over 50 per
cent.AV is thus not a proportional system, and can in fact be more
disproportional than FPTP.

7.15pm                     Mary Riddell writes on her blog that tonight "it
looks possible, even likely, that Labour will be back in power as head of an
alliance that would make British political history." She says:

There are many obstacles. There will be problems with arithmetic and validity.
But, though Labour lost the election, the Tories did not win it. Slightly over
one third of the vote  does not betoken a mandate for David Cameron, who will
now face all the suppressed rage of his own party.

Anything is possible. Mr Clegg might yet try and strike a deal with the Tories.
A rainbow alliance might blow apart, leaving Mr Cameron to test his luck with a
minority administration. But tonight a flame is burning again for a progressive
alliance, long after some of its advocates had thought the game was over. And
that is a kind of tribute to Mr Brown.

7.11pm Gordon Brown has emailed supporters explaining his earlier statement.
Read the full text here.

7.06pm Andrew Gilligan says the Conservatives should pray for a Lib-Dem
coalition:

A Lib-Lab coalition would be democratically preposterous, defying the laws of
political gravity. But for that very reason it could, in the medium term, be the
best possible outcome for the Tories. It would be losers propping up losers. It
would be hugely difficult to keep together, lacking a majority of its own and
requiring nationalist votes to prop it up. It would be vulnerable to all sorts
of unsavoury Celtic blackmail, enraging the already long-suffering English
(whose own voting intentions were very clear.)

7.03pm Daniel Hannan says every minute of Gordon Brown's prime ministership has
dragged by:

"It's a damn' fine thing to be", said Lord Melbourne of the prime ministership,
"if only for five minutes." Gordon Brown occupied the position for 1,532,166
minutes - we felt them dragging past. It wasn't a happy time for him or for the
country. None the less, it can't have been easy for this proud, stubborn,
difficult man to give up the post he had schemed at for so long.

7.00pm Tim Collard says The Prime Minister's resignationmay deny David Cameron
his victory. He concludes:

Gordon Brown has not yet resigned: he has merely announced his intention to
resign. He won't be able to go back on that, but the timescale is fairly loose;
there won't be a new Labour leader until September, which means another four
months of Gordon as Prime Minister. Unless he plays another wild card, by
offering Nick Clegg the job to seal the deal. Sounds unlikely, but we are
suddenly in a zone where anything is possible.

6.50pm Nile Gardiner believes Gordon Brown has committed his final act of
betrayal. He notes:

It is frankly the sort offarcical development one expects in Khartoum or
Caracas, and not in one of the world's greatest democracies. Of course it
remains to be seen whether Nick Clegg actually signs up to this high-risk
gambit. But it's hard to think of anything more guaranteed to undermine
Britain's position on the world stage than a rag-tag Labour-Liberal coalition
that has no popular mandate to govern...

6.41pm Video: Gordon Brown's full statement.

6.39pm With apologies for the immediate picture quality, here is the Sky footage
of Alastair Campbell and Adam Boulton squaring up to each other:

6.28pm (WH) Fraser Nelson reckons "this is Clegg's fault". Why? Because "he
wanted to turn the heat up on Cameron, and Brown took this as a reason to stay
on until October. Incredible."

6.06pm                     Benedict Brogan writes on his blog that "the
immediate issue is what David Cameron says in reply" to Gordon Brown's
statement. He argues:

He can point out that he tried his best to make a deal work: he acted in the
national interest. Does he carry on with the talks with Mr Clegg? Is this no
more than a squeeze ploy by the Lib Dems? If Mr Brown's scheme works, then he
can sit back and wait for a Lib-Lab-etc coalition to fall, as it surely will do
eventually. It can just about put the numbers together, but will have to spend a
lot of cash on bridges to nowhere in Scotland and Orange culture centres in
Ulster. And then he can hope the country will give him a mandate in the election
that follows. But in the meantime, we get market turmoil, and a government made
up of two losers and eventually led by someone who was not on the scene during
the election.

5.56pm On his blog, Philip Johnston writes:

Gordon Brown's brass neck in clinging on to office despite losing the general
election is astonishing. Constitutionally, he is behaving properly because
possession is nine tenths of the law. But politically, even morally, it is a
scandal.

The Labour party claims there is a "progressive majority" in the country - but
that is not how the country was invited to vote last Thursday. Why did they not
stand at the election as a progressive alliance? This will be a coalition on a
false prospectus...

5.47pm Peter Hoskin argues on Coffee House that Gordon Brown is "using himself
as a bargaining chip, making a Lib-Lab deal more palatable to Nick Clegg." He
says:

This threatens not just to shake the kaleidoscope, but to smash it to pieces.
Until 17:05 this afternoon, most folk thought that a Lib-Con deal was imminent.
But surely Brown wouldn't have taken this step if there wasn't a chance -
however slight - of sabotaging those efforts. Oh yes, in death as in life:
causing trouble for the Tories.

5.43pm The Editor of the Spectator, Fraser Nelson, notes on Twitter: "Commanding
a majority is NOT a precondition for government. As Harold Wilson knew in
Feb74-Oct74. This is Brown's last confidence trick."

5.42pm The Evening Standard's Paul Waugh tweets: "David Miliband will confirm
tonight he is standing for the Labour leadership. Could confirm as leaves
Cabinet meeting."

5.40pm                     Guido Fawkes says Brown's statement is "quite the
spanner in the works", as it "offers the Lib Dems a chance to form coalition
with him until the autumn when he will be replaced by victor of Labour
leadership contest."

5.30pm                     Damian Thompson gives his immediate reaction to
Gordon Brown's statement that he is to resign as Leader of the Labour Party:

GordonBrownmay have announced hisimpendingresignation as Leader of the Labour
Party, but make no mistake about it: this was a
thoroughlyopportunisticstatement, issued with the clear intention of carving out
Gordon a place in history as the Prime Minister who founded a "progressive
coalition". In fact, such a coalition would be nothing of the sort. It would be
an alliance of losing parties that imposed yet another unelected Prime Minster
on this country - and all thanks to the bitter Left-wing prejudice of the
Liberal Democrats. If the Lib Dems go down this route - and I can't believe they
would be so stupid as to do so - they will bethemost despised political party in
Britain. And rightly so.

This live blog is adjourned until tomorrow. See
General Election 2010 latest: live                                           for
the Telegraph's news reports and the Telegraph Blogs
homepage for the latest analysis.

6.00pm                     (WH) Gordon Brown met Nick Clegg face to face this
afternoon, Nick Robinson reveals on BBC news. The meeting was organised with the
knowledge of David Cameron. Was this a last-ditch attempt on the part of the PM
to prevent a Clegg-Cameron deal? Channel 4 has more details.

5.59pm                     Fraser Nelson has tweeted: "Tory MPs emailed invite
to see Cameron between 6-7pm if in London. Email sent at 10am but arrived 4.30pm
as HoC server down."

5.50pm (WH) So the talks are over for the day: the parties' negotiating teams
are now reporting back to their leaders. William Hague made it clear that the
Lib Dems and Tories will meet again over the next 24 hours, and that "economic
stability and the reduction of the budget deficit" were the key priorities for
both sides. A few minutes later, Lid Dem MP Danny Alexander confirmed that
"deficit reduction" and a "credible economic plan" were at the heart of the
talks.

3.28pm Battle lines are beginning to emerge in the Tory blogosphere. Iain Dale
and Guido Fawkes are for a Clegg-Cameron coalition; Fraser Nelson and Tim
Montgomerie (judging by their respective articles in the News of the World and
the Mail on Sunday) are more cautious.

3.24pm "Nick Clegg just left his house with his aide Tim Snowball," reports the
Telegraph's Jon Swaine.

2.32pm Gordon Brown has arrived in Downing Street.

2.28pm                     Iain Dale reckons the "change coalition" is on its
way. "I am really confident that by the end of the day we will have good news,
and that the Change Coalition is forging ahead. We may not have quite reached
the endgame, but my sixth sense tells me that we're nearing it." He adds a dig
at Norman Tebbit, who has opposed a Cameron-Clegg deal on his Telegraph blog:

It's no good following Norman Tebbit's logic and sticking your head in the
ground like an ostrich and ignoring the realpolitik of the situation. You have
to deal with the cards you are dealt, and that's what David Cameron and his
colleagues are doing now. They deserve all our support.

1.26pm                     Iain Martin says on his WSJ blog that the talks are
progressing and that a Cameron-Clegg deal is drawing near:

It's speeding up now. Against a backdrop of the markets getting ready to open
Monday morning, the talks between the Tory and Lib Dem leaderships are getting
somewhere fast. William Hague sounded upbeat outside the talks at the cabinet
office Sunday morning - and the suggestion is that Clegg and Cameron are hitting
it off.

Gordon Brown is heading back to London - as planned, but with the suggestion
that he will see the cabinet this afternoon. The word "resignation" is even
being mentioned. (Not sure Gordon has realized yet that it could involve his
resignation, probably thinks it refers to someone else).

Both the Tory and the Lib Dem leaderships are also in a race against time as
regards their own party. Tory MPs meet at 6 p.m. Monday, and their leadership
wants to present it all as a done deal, done in the national interest. If
Cameron walks into that meeting as the new PM then he's in a stronger position
to see off the likely rebels.

1.22pm Where we are: David Cameron and Nick Clegg met alone last night and spoke
for 70 "constructive" minutes. Senior Lib Dems and Tories are now in talks which
are expected to last most of today. Gordon Brown is now on his way back to
Number 10 - and Fraser Nelson notes on Twitter that his "resignation today [is]
now possible". Meanwhile, Benedict Brogan writes on his blog that Cameron will
not compromise on PR:

...There is no certainty that we will have an agreement by tea-time. Team Dave
is actively countering the accusations that lack of success can be blamed on Mr
Cameron's exclusivist style of leadership. They argue that he has taken
soundings across the party in the past 48 hours 'but he is the leader and has to
make the decisions'. He has not moved off from his statement on Friday, which
set out his red-lines: "His position on FPTP will not change". If Mr Clegg is a
kingmaker, then he is a severely prescribed one: an alliance with Labour would
be electorally fatal, Labour cannot deliver PR anyway, and he has committed to
seek stable government in the national interest, just like Dave. On Thursday 18
million people voted for parties that are opposed to PR, against 6m for the Lib
Dems. The country is 3-1 against such a change, and Dave knows it.

This live blog is adjourned until Sunday, when Tory and Lib Dem negotiating
teams meet in the Cabinet Office (11.00am).

5.49pm John Mann MP tells the BBC, "Gordon Brown needs to go before the Labour
Party Conference in September... Large number of Labour voters believe he should
not be Prime Minister. It's not credible or tenable that he should continue."
His resignation should occur "in the near future", Mann suggests. But the Labour
MP has no open support and is not part of a "cabal".

5.46pm                     Peter Hoskin observes at the Spectator:

For all the feverish political activity in Westiminster today - and beyond the
occasional voting reform protest - there's a strange, impermeable calm to the
situation.  Everything is going on behind closed doors, and everyone is
remaining relatively tight-lipped.  Signs are, we may have to wait a couple of
days before any light breaks through the fog of discussion and
counter-discussion.

5.39pm Cristina Odone writes on her blog that Labour loved the Lib Dems because
they never bothered to find out who they really were:

...It was a bad miscalculation, and Conservatives mustn't fall into the same
trap from the opposite direction. For Clegg is not a Tory in an orange tie,
either. A coalition is taking shape under our noses, yet no one seems to know
what the Lib Dems are about. When Nick Clegg sits down with his advisers, who
are they, and what do they say? Who has influence on Clegg, and where do they
come from? What are the non-negotiable principles among the Clegg cabal? The
Liberal Democrat party is a strange beast. David Cameron has only a few hours in
which to study its anatomy.

5.32pm Video: Kay Burley battles with the noise of Fair Vote protesters.

5.29pm Conservative MPs have told the BBC that there is unlikley to be a
decision on a Conservative alliance with the Lib Dems before Monday.

5.00pm Nick Clegg is now meeting with the Liberal Democrat Federal Executive,
"an elected committee responsible for directing, co-ordinating and implementing
the work of the Federal Party."

4.33pm (WH) It's important, at this stage in the horse-trading, to remember the
parliamentary mathematics which dictate the plausibility of various coalitions.
On his BBC blog, Nick Robinson has gives a helpful and thorough run-through of
the figures. He states:

No party has enough seats to win votes in parliament without the support of
members of other parties.

The Conservatives are the largest party with a total of 306 seats in the Commons
- which would go up to 307 - if they win the delayed election in Thirsk and
Molton - until now, at least, a safe Conservative seat.

If they tried to govern alone they would, in theory, face a combined opposition
of 343 MPs.In reality it's somewhat different. Sinn Fein won 5 seats - and they
don't take their seats in the House of Commons - so the opposition benches
reduce to 338.

A Con/Lib Dem coalition would give them a total of 364 - enough to govern
comfortably.

A looser arrangement in which the Lib Dems agreed not to vote against a Tory
Budget or the Queen's Speech would mean 306 or 307 Tories facing a depleted
opposition of 281 (that's 338 - 57 Lib Dems)

If a Lib Dem/Conservative deal fails, Gordon Brown will try to form a
government.

If Labour and the Lib Dems joined forces - the extra 57 votes are not enough to
make them the biggest force even with the support of the Northern Irish SDLP
(who sat on the government benches in the last parliament) and the one new
Alliance MP who is allied to the Lib Dems. Together that's 319 votes.

With the support of the nationalists from Scotland and Wales they would reach
330.

If the DUP joined too and the independent unionist and the new Green MP this
alliance would have 338 votes in the Commons.

4.31pm                     Toby Young asks whether a 'coalition of the losers'
be in the Conservative Party's best interests? He writes:

It looks like I was wrong in my analysis of the Prime Minister's motive for
remaining in Downing Street. Judging from the message being cranked out by the
NuLab spin machine, Gordon Brown really does believe that if the Lib Dems can't
reach an agreement with the Tories there's a possibility of a 'coalition of the
losers' "progressive coalition". I thought this was too incredible even for our
shameless Prime Minister to contemplate, but apparently not. He would have no
qualms about remaining in office in spite of the fact that he's gone from not
being elected to convincingly beaten in a general election. He's Britain's first
twice unelected Prime Minister.

4.28pm                     Pete Hoskin at the Spectator says: "David Laws
statement reinforces sense that the momentum is behind a Lib-Con deal of sorts."

4.25pm                     Laura Kuennsberg tweets: "Protestors move to Tory
HQ."

4.20pm A statement from David Laws: he said talks among the Lib Dem
parliamentary party as well as the Lib Dem shadow cabinet have been "positive
and constructive".  Both groups have fully endorsed Nick Clegg's line, and will
put "national interest before party interests." He said the Lib Dems have heard
Gordon Brown, but that they're continuing to talk to David Cameron. There was no
indication of a time scale - or when negotiations might be finished. "As quickly
as possible," he said.

3.59pm (WH) I remarked to a colleague yesterday that no one, other than a
Conservative politician, would choose to wear David Cameron's bright blue tie.
BBC weatherman Tomasz Schafernaker has proved me wrong:

3.48pm Nick Clegg speaks to 1000 "Fair Vote" demonstrators on Smith Square,
after accepting their 20,000-strong petition. "The fact the protest has taken
place at all is absolutely wonderful," he tells them. He's getting the pop star
treatment. "We'll be making a statement about the discussions inside later," he
says.

3.41pm It seems that Nick Clegg will address the protesters outside Liberal
Democrat HQ. Meanwhile, John Mann, Labour MP, has called for Gordon Brown's
resignation, calling him "aloof".

3.37pm Lord Tebbit, a Telegraph blogger, is speaking live on BBC News. He says:
"The Liberal Democrats' policies have been rejected by 75 per cent of the
voters, and I can't see a case for implementing them." The best thing, he says,
would be for another election within 12 months. He is also critical of Cameron's
election campaign.

3.35pm Andrew Brown writes on his blog that, as an ordinary voter, he admires
David Cameron's courage - and he wishes the sniping critics would be quiet. He
says:

I'm not a political anorak and I've never been a member of the Conservative
party. I find I am often sceptical about the promises of politicians, especially
when they promise to get rid of unfairness and that kind of thing. But, whatever
happens in the next few days, I recognise that David Cameron has shown real grit
and determination. And he has achieved something substantial by converting so
many English voters to the Conservatives.

3.32pm                     George Pitcher asks on his blog: "If there's a
Lib-Con deal, can anyone take Little Clegg seriously again?" He writes:

Can we just remind ourselves that the Liberal Democrats claim to be a
"progressive" left-of-centre political party? Its leader, Nick Clegg, spent much
of the election campaign claiming to have usurped Labour as the main party of
the Left. This was now a "two-horse race" between the Conservatives and the
mighty, resurgent Lib Dems. Lib Dem policies offered as stark a contrast with
the Conservatives as it is possible to find, from taxation to Europe to
electoral reform.

3.20pm Gordon Brown and his family have left Number 10 and are heading to
Scotland. Martin Bright, Spectator blogger and former Political Editor of the
New Statesman, asks on Twitter: "Resignation speech coming?"

3.13pm Paul Waugh has just tweeted something unsuitable for a family blog. But
he does have a point.

3.07pm                     Guido tweets:

Grassroots LD Orange bookers preparing to publicly declare in favour of formal
Lib-Con coalition citing potential government debt crisis.

2.57pm Protesters have just arrived at Liberal Democrat HQ - by calling for PR.

2.39pm There is currently a demonstration in Trafalgar square, I gather from
Twitter, "to pressure Clegg to settle for nothing less than a referendum on PR."

2.16pm Good news: Nigel Farage, the former UKIP leader who was injured in a
plane crash on polling day, has been discharged from hospital.

2.13pm Tim Montgomerie, editor of ConservativeHome, retweets Paul Goodman's
following statement:

Conservative MPs asked by Whips to attend Parliamentary Party meeting on Monday
at 18.00. Venue probably the Commons.

2.05pm Daniel Hannan writes that Euro-sceptics failed at the polls again:

Yet again, a largely Eurosceptic country has elected a largely pro-Brussels
legislature. A senior UKIP friend has run the figures, and tells me that UKIP
cost the Tories 17 seats.  If so, UKIP has probably let the Lib Dems into
office: with five Sinn Fein MPs refusing to take their seats, 323 Conservative
MPs would have constituted a bare majority.

1.58pm A response, perhaps, to Simon Heffer's claim that "the Tories conned much
of the press into believing they would get an overall majority." Martin Salter,
a former Labour MP blogging for the Telegraph, writes: "Even I was privately
predicting a Tory majority."

1.48pm Benedict Brogan says that black propaganda is distorting the true nature
of negotiations between the Liberal Democrats and the Tories.

1.46pm Harry Mount notes that, if the electorate had not seen the  TV election
debates, a coalition with the Lib Dems would now be preposterous. He writes: "If
David Cameron was thinking of entering into a coalition with the old Lib Dems,
as they were previously thought of, he would be looking desperate now. As it is,
Clegg is considered a senior figure; journalists refer regularly to him as the
kingmaker with none of the flippant laughs they would once have used."

1.37pm The BBC reports: the next meeting between the Tories and Liberal
Democrats will be at 11am tomorrow (Sunday) morning.

1.25pm Benedict Brogan says Gordon Brown's record of loathing means that cutting
a deal with the Lib Dems will be beyond the PM:

Everyone is manoeuvring so any account of the one-to-one talks between the
leaders should be treated with caution. The claim that Gordon Brown ranted at
Nick Clegg last night may be a clever bit of black propaganda planted by the
Tories, but the difficulty for Mr Brown is it rings true: he has ranted at Mr
Clegg before, when they met to talk about expenses. He is known to be someone
who is least likely to say 'I see your point', and has an in-built loathing of
English public school types who don't agree with him. The idea that Mr Brown is
capable of the openess required for formal or informal coalition building is
absurd.

1.22pm James Delingpole says Cameron has made his "first stupid mistake", by
promising to work with the Liberal Democrats on a low carbon economy. He writes
on his blog:

No Dave. I hate to tell you this but committing Britain to a low-carbon economy
is not like committing yourself to keeping all phone boxes painted red or
promising Britain will never join a currency it was never going to join in a
million years anyway.

A low carbon economy is virtually the same thing as NO economy.

12.40pm (DT) Lord Tebbit, writing on his Telegraph blog, is clear that he would
prefer a brief and disastrous Lib-Lab coalition government to a Cameron
coalition with the Lib Dems:

In my view Mr Cameron should make it plain that while he would be willing to
form a government and would welcome support from any party, he would offer no
hostages, nor concessions as a condition of office.

If that sent off Mr Clegg to do a deal with his soulmates in a Lib Dem-NuLab
arrangement or coalition, so be it. It could not last long, for at the most it
would only delay NuLab a trifle on the path to economic disaster which it has
pursued these last 13 years.

This Parliament will not last its potential five-year span. This election did
not complete the purge of the sickness of New Labour. It is the next election
which will decide the fate of the country - and the Conservative Party will not
win that election if it is tainted with the contamination of coalition with a
party which puts the interests of Our Masters in Brussels ahead of the interests
of the British people.

But this is not the line being taken by Dan Hannan or his closest ally in
Parliament, Douglas Carswell. So the Eurosceptic Right is split on the question
of a deal with the Lib Dems, conveniently for Cameron. This might seems a
frivolous point, but Tebbit is a Tory in every sense of the word, while Hannan
describes himself as a Whig - a believer in the evolution of sound, small
government, if necessary through constitutional reform (or vandalism, as Tebbit
might put it). It reminds me that I first heard of Nick Clegg because Dan used
to bang on about this Lib Dem former MEP who was "sound" on issues other than
the EU. Hannan and Tebbit would have been on opposite sides in the English Civil
War, too. I wonder which side Dave would have been on.

12.09pm And a quick look at today's comment from the Telegraph. Michael Portillo
says David Cameron must forge a formal coalition and offer the Liberal Democrats
ministerial positions. Charles Moore agrees, saying that "old politics" isn't
broken and that the system is working. He writes:

There is the basis for something here. It seems reasonable to predict that, by
tomorrow night or Monday morning, Mr Cameron will be prime minister, with Mr
Clegg giving him enough support, though possibly at arm's length, to govern.
This solution will certainly prove precarious. The more Left-wing Liberals might
soon use that ill-chosen word "collaboration" (shades of Vichy) as an insult to
colleagues if they accept Cabinet posts. But Mr Cameron's scheme is, surely, as
near as we can get to what the voters wanted - a big change, but with no
absolute trust placed in a single party.

The Telegraph's leader argues that there must be a new government by Monday:

With crucial decisions to be taken about the public finances, and the danger of
turbulence in the markets when they open on Monday, it is crucial that a
government is in place before the weekend ends. The sense and goodwill shown so
far by Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg suggest that this is possible, though compromises
will need to be made. Both leaders wanted change: with the first hung parliament
in 36 years, they have assuredly got it.

And Simon Heffer argues that David Cameron had this coming to him:

The party spoke with a clear voice: the voice of neo-Blairism, of flannel, and
not a voice of conservative principle. This should not have surprised any reader
of this column, for I have long maintained that Mr Cameron is not a
conservative. His slogans of social democracy - "hope, not fear" and, of course,
"change" - simply presented a warm bath of sentiment to a people who wanted
specific details of what would be done to rescue our country from the economic
knackers' yard. No wonder it was so straightforward for him to hold out the hand
of friendship to the Lib Dems: he almost is one.

12.02pm                     The BBC's Nick Robinson thinks an informal agreement
between the Lib Dems and the Tories is likely:

My hunch is that a Tory/Lib Dem arrangement can be formed but not a coalition
which both parties would find too hard to stomach. The reason is that both
parties' leadership's have a shared interest in avoiding an early second
election. The Lib Dems are shell shocked by the extent to which their dreams of
an electoral breakthrough were smashed and have no money for anther campaign.
The Tories are surprised by Labour's electoral resilience and do not fancy
getting to grips with the deficit whilst constantly looking over their shoulders
at the electorate.

12.00pm (WH) As the party leaders head towards a 65thVE Day memorial service,
let's remind ourselves where we are.


     ·    Last night Gordon Brown spoke to Nick Clegg. It went badly (see
          11.30am).
     ·    David Cameron spoke to Nick Clegg, but it went well.
     ·    There were preliminary talks last night between senior Tories and Lib
          Dems.
     ·    Speaking this morning, Clegg said: "People deserve good, stable
          government. That's why I'm very keen the Liberal Democrats should
          enter into discussions with other parties as we are doing in a
          constructive spirit."
     ·    He emphasised that tax reform, education, the economy and electoral
          reform are Lib Dem priorities.
     ·    The Lib Dems are meeting today to discuss possible coalitions, but
          reportedly there will be no vote.
     ·    Jon Sopel reports that, according to a senior Lib Dem source, Nick
          Clegg has told Gordon Brown he should resign.


11.48am However, over at the Spectator, James Forsyth says: "One the Tory side,
I'm picking up a surprisingly large amount of support for what Cameron is doing.
There is a recognition that spans the party that it would be stupid to drive the
Lib Dems into Brown's arms. But PR remains an absolute deal-breaker. There's
also a problem that senior backbenchers do not feel that they are being
consulted about what is going on. Indeed, Cameron would be well advised to
summon a meeting of the parliamentary party."

11.45am Iain Martin reports on his WSJ blog that there may be much trouble ahead
in the Tory party, as the Lib Dems and Conservatives discuss a coalition:

Let's remember, the Lib Dems have under 60 MPs and had a shockingly bad election
result. The Tories have more than 300 MPs and gained almost 100 seats-so their
MPs and activists are more likely to think the Conservatives should be in the
driving seat rather than offering all manner of concessions.

I am hearing extraordinary stories about the way in which the Tory leadership
has put together its coalition offer. After a degree of initial shock stunning
people almost into silence, I'm picking up great bubbling anger about the whole
business. (On Cameron's strategy, the role of Oliver Letwin and Steve Hilton,
the floating of talks on voting reform, etc.)

11.44am The Sun's front page depicts Gordon Brown as a Downing Street squatter:

11.38am (WH) This morning's Times carries a report by Francis Elliott and Roland
Watson on David Cameron's secret kitchen cabinet. This passage will provide
ammunition for the anti-Cameroons:

Behind-the-scenes anecdotes are starting to emerge. One records how Bill Knapp,
the US political consultant hired to help Mr Cameron, had a simple question on
the eve of the vital second television debate. What research had been done into
what voters thought of the Tory campaign's key theme of the Big Society? The
answer was an embarrassed silence. When results from a hurriedly convened focus
group detailed a negative reaction at a subsequent meeting, Mr Hilton is said to
have stormed out.

11.30am (WH) The BBC's Jon Sopel reveals some fascinating details of a Gordon
Brown phone call to Nick Clegg. It was a "diatribe" and "threatening", according
to a high-ranking Lib Dem insider. The same conversation between David Cameron
and Clegg, however, was "constructive" and respectful. Could ban manners change
the outcome today?

Read yesterday's                                            UK election live
blog                                          here.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                                  May 9, 2010

Farage lucky to be alive

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 123 words


PLANE crash survivor Nigel Farage was released from hospital yesterday and
admitted: "I must be the luckiest man alive."

The outspoken UKIP politician walked from the wreckage of a light aeroplane
after it crash-landed on election day.

After being treated for chest, rib and spine injuries, he emerged from hospital
in Oxford saying it was "the scariest moment of my life".

Mr Farage said: "I can't believe when you look at it that we have come out
alive.

"I'm not even keen on flying and part of this was to prove to myself it was not
something to be scared of."

Mr Farage, 46, revealed he and pilot Justin Adams spent five minutes waiting to
crash after the banner entangled in the plane.

He later failed in his bid to become MP for Buckingham.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SCARY: Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DSS


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday

General election 2010: Saturday and Sunday timeline

BYLINE: Maev Kennedyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 977 words

ABSTRACT

Developments in the aftermath of the UK election results as the Conservatives
and Liberal Democrats begin negotiations

FULL TEXT

Saturday

07.50: Ian Paisley Jnr, of the Democratic Unionists, who held his seat while his
party leader, Peter Robinson, lost his, tells Radio 4's Today programme that
"broadly speaking we would be content to support whatever government is prepared
to do the best deal for Northern Ireland".

08.38: The first sign of a split in Tory ranks over the terms of a deal: Liam
Fox, the defence spokesman, says his party "should not be held to ransom" over
electoral reform.

09.55: A passerby yells at Nick Clegg, en route from his Putney home to
Westminster: "Don't sell us out to the Tories, Cleggie!"

10.10: The Lib Dem MP : "Just leaving for all day talks with colleagues and Nick
Clegg - which will be followed by a meeting of the federal executive. Which of
the dangerous liaisons or none is put into play is the fight today!"

10.26: Ben Bradshaw, Labour's culture secretary, tells the BBC that all the Lib
Dems he has spoken to in the south-west of England say they would not support a
pact without a clear pledge for a referendum on electoral reform.

10.27: Clegg arrives to meet his MPs at the Local Government Association HQ,
opposite the old Tory central office in London's Smith Square.

10.29: Lord Mandelson arrives at the Cabinet Office

11.19: Sally Bercow, the speaker's wife and a failed Labour council candidate,
tweets: "ID cards could be chucked in the bin. They were a rubbish idea anyway"
- then swiftly clarifies that this is not official Labour policy.

11.44: Gordon and Sarah Brown head for the Cenotaph on foot from No 10.

10.45: The BBC reports that Clegg and Brown had an angry telephone exchange on
Friday night.

11.55: The former Lib Dem leader Sir Menzies Campbell reports a "positive
result" from discussions between MPs.

11.56: A Downing Street spokesman says it is work as usual for Brown, who is
phoning the French president, Nicolas Sarkozy, and the Spanish PM, Jose Luis
Zapatero, about the Greek economic crisis.

12.00: Cameron, Clegg and Brown stand shoulder-to-shoulder as the Last Post
marks VE Day at the Cenotaph, with Cameron in the centre.

12.31: Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, plays down a Brown-Clegg row,
saying: "Any suggestion that it was in any way angry or hostile would be wrong."

12.46: An official Lib Dem statement says the Brown-Clegg conversation was
"perfectly amicable and both men just set out what they said in their public
statements". Clegg is, meanwhile, back with his MPs in Smith Square, with
electoral reform campaign group 38 Degrees demonstrating outside.

13.00: Michael Portillo tells the BBC a Tory coalition with the Lib Dems is
"very possible", as the economic crisis would mean electoral reform would take a
back seat.

13.17: Lib Dem sources say no further talks are scheduled with either Labour or
the Tories.

13.33: Nigel Farage, of Ukip, is released from hospital after his eve-of-poll
plane crash.

13.38: Harriet Harman arrives at No 10.

14.19: Portillo warns: "By camping out in No 10, I fear there is a possibility
that Gordon Brown is sacrificing his dignity."

14.45: Vince Cable is left off Lib Dem shadow cabinet list - a simple mistake, a
spokesman says.

15.00: Hundreds of Take Back Parliament campaigners, wearing suffragette colours
and led by the singer Billy Bragg, arrive at Smith Square.

15.15: Brown flies to Scotland.

15.16: Cameron arrives home.

15.30: Alex Salmond, the Scottish National party leader, proposes an SNP, Labour
and Plaid Cymru coalition.

15.36: Police estimate that 1,000 demonstrators are heading from parliament to
Smith Square, chanting, "We want to speak to Nick". Clegg emerges to say the
demonstration is "absolutely wonderful".

16.03: Lord Tebbit tells BBC News: "There is no mood in the Conservative party
to bring the Liberal Democrats into government."

16.05: Charles Kennedy, Sarah Teather and other Lib Dem MPs leave the meeting by
a back door, refusing to comment. Cable is chased by activists chanting: "Don't
sell out".

16.09: John Mann, re-elected as the Labour MP for Bassetlaw, calls on Brown to
step down as leader.

16.31: The Lib Dem frontbencher Simon Hughes tells reporters: "There can't be
any arrangement with any other party unless they understand the need for reform
... we have to talk first to the Tories because they are the largest party".

16.52: Clegg arrives at a meeting of the Lib Dem federal executive at the Work
Foundation HQ in St James's, London.

17.52: Clegg's chauffeur-driven Jaguar is still outside the meeting, engine
running.

18.00: Cameron arrives at the Tory HQ on Millbank, having evaded reporters
waiting outside his home.

18.10: A YouGov poll for the Sunday Times says two-thirds of voters think Brown
should accept defeat.

18.32: Clegg leaves the federal executive meeting and says it was "a very good
meeting".

19.15:  "Future of Britain now being decided by a meeting of the Lib Dem federal
executive. Isn't the new politics great?"

19.25: Cameron emails supporters, promising: "We won't rush into any agreement".
He says there are "many areas" of common ground with the Lib Dems.

19.40: An ICM survey for the Sunday Telegraph says 48% of voters back PR.

20.15: The Conservatives and the Lib Dems announce that Cameron and Clegg have
held a "constructive and amicable" 70-minute meeting at Admiralty House.

Sunday:

10.00: Clegg speaks briefly to journalists outside his house, Brown ignores
media questions as he walks to church in Kircaldy, and Cameron and his wife,
Samantha, go to church in Kensington.

11.00: The Tory and Lib Dem negotiating teams, including William Hague, George
Osborne, Oliver Letwin and Cable, Chris Huhne and David Laws, meet at the
Cabinet Office.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 9, 2010
                                 First Edition

A rude awakening;
Election 2010 THE AFTERMATH What now? Former MPs and failed contenders What
becomes of the rejected hopefuls and ejected incumbents after the ballots are
all in? Emily Dugan asked Judi Chadaway, of headhunters Scarlett2, what they
might do next

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 745 words


LEMBIT OPIK, Lib Dem, Montgomeryshire

CV Human resources manager; TV cheeky boy.

Interests Playing the field (or the harmonica).

Profile A populist with cheeky charm. His background in HR perhaps explains his
ability to always back the right people.

Career option Entertainment or media. More appearances on shows like Have I Got
News for You, or maybe a weatherman on Babestation.

NICK GRIFFIN, British National Party, Barking

CV Leader of the BNP; MEP for North West England; unemployed.

Interests The writings of Adolf Hitler.

Profile Controversial speaker, doesn't need to be liked.

Career option It's not surprising that he's had stretches of unemployment
before. I couldn't even see him as a prison warden. He could be a right-wing
Louis Theroux - presenting documentaries on liberal subjects such as Gay Pride
and the Notting Hill Carnival.

CHARLES CLARKE, Labour, Norwich South

CV Former home secretary; local councillor; president of the National Union of
Students.

Interests Insurrection.

Profile Larger-than-life figure who hides his private education well. Not
frightened of telling it like it is.

Career option He is principled and gets bored easily; juggling political
consultancies would work best. He could train as a life coach, identifying
budding politicians.

SHAHID MALIK, Labour, Dewsbury

CV Former communities secretary; third sector work.

Interests The insurance industry; a burgeoning property portfolio; public order
policing.

Profile: Lancashire lad with Pakistani origins; fellow of the Royal Society of
Arts and Institute of Management.

Career option A behind-the-scenes deal maker, he could look for national roles
advising or campaigning on diversity and equality. Perhaps some property dealing
on the side.

JACQUI SMITH, Labour, Redditch

CV First female home secretary; Blair Babe; economics teacher.

Interests Hiding the TV remote control.

Profile Helmet-haired formidable female.

Career option Would do well as a union organiser - the NUT is looking for a
co-ordination and strategy officer. But with a salary of just £46,000 she could
end up in muddy waters over expenses again. Adviser to a late-night cable
channel?

SHAUN BAILEY, Conservative, Hammersmith

CV Youth worker; face of the 'new' Tories (retired).

Interests Accounting and receipt management.

Profile Limber and photogenic. As the black child of a single mum, he is the
antithesis of the white middle England membership expected of the Conservatives.

Career option Tories should go overboard to keep him as he shatters the image of
the "nasty party"/Eton club. Brilliant role model; Prince's Trust or equivalent
organisation should snap him up. I could see him as a teacher on Waterloo Road
or doing a Scott Brown-type centrefold for a Conservative magazine.

GEORGE GALLOWAY, Respect, Poplar and Limehouse

CV Former Labour MP for Glasgow Kelvin; vice-president of the Stop the War
Coalition; general secretary of War on Want; reality television star.

Interests Himself.

Profile Telegenic personality who demands Respect. Fond of travel. But can't
always be relied on to turn up.

Career option Radical talkshow host? With his fondness for the opposite sex and
travel, maybe he could be a judge on Kurdistan's Got Talent.

NIGEL FARAGE, UKIP, Buckingham

CV Leader of the UK Independence Party; MEP for South East England; broker.

Interests A keen smoker.

Profile Energetic but irreverent. Unemployable in a large corporate environment
because he'd upset too many people. But a known survivor.

Career option Given the luck he had in walking away from the plane crash last
week, he might have a future as a professional gambler.

JOANNE CASH, Tory, Westminster North

CV Media barrister; future yummy mummy.

Interests ID fraud; drug dealing and prostitution (a reduction in, of course).
Oh, and boxing.

Profile Feisty blonde, sporting a Sam Cam bump.

Career option Self-employed as a barrister and married to a millionaire, so
needs a cause, not cash - motherhood won't cut it unless it's triplets. Keeping
Boris Johnson out of trouble, perhaps?

PETER ROBINSON, DUP, East Belfast

CV First Minister of Northern Ireland; leader of Democratic Unionist Party; MP
since 1979; estate agent.

Interests Property, land and finance.

Profile Smooth operator, devoted husband.

Career option After 31 years at Westminster, it'd be a pity to waste all that
experience. I would recommend that he gets his head down and writes his memoirs
- he must have some interesting stories to tell. Or he could be a Business Angel
helping young entrepreneurs.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 9, 2010
                                 First Edition

Election Oscars 2010;
Randall and Rentoul unleashed David Randall (below left) and John Rentoul
(right) - taking their cue from one of television's best-loved detective series,
Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased) - sniff out the rogues, rascals and fools of the
campaign dubbed the most surprising in living memory Debate continued until the
early hours, so tight was the battle, but, finally, Gillian Duffy and Gordon
Brown stood out from the crowd

BYLINE: David Randall and John Rentoul

SECTION: NEWS WEEKLY; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1561 words


Politician's quote of the campaign

The smartest, as you might expect, was Neil Kinnock's: "If you want charisma,
buy a ticket for the cinema. If you want someone to effectively manage the
economy, then you will vote Labour." But, a few days later, Gordon Brown laid
both hands on the award with his angry words after what had seemed like a
perfectly amicable encounter with Rochdale grandmother Gillian Duffy (below).
Settling into the back of his departing limousine, he growled: "That was a
disaster. You should never have put me with that woman. Whose idea was that?
It's just ridiculous ... She was just a sort of bigoted woman."

Voter's quote of the campaign

The acclaimed winner was Mrs Gillian Duffy of Rochdale. Told by eager
journalists what Gordon Brown had said about her, she looked taken aback, a
trifle hurt, and then said: "It wasn't the 'bigot', it was that he said 'that
woman'. I thought: What does he mean, 'that woman'? It's not nice, it's not nice
at all."

Most accurate opinion poll

The NOP/Ipsos Mori exit poll, which predicted the Conservatives would win 307
seats. Which (including Thirsk, still pending due to death of Ukip candidate)
they did. The other polls were pretty good, too.

Most risible manifesto launch

As if the appalling content of the document were not bad enough, the launch of
the BNP's manifesto was rendered even more preposterous by the presence next to
Nick Griffin, BNP leader, of a man dressed as a crusader (right). He looked like
the bloke from the Medieval Wars of Religion Re-enactment Society whose costume
is so bad he is asked to stand at the back.

Edvard Munch Memorial Facial Expression of the Campaign Award

There were several nominations, ranging from David Cameron's strenuous efforts
to stifle his rising self-satisfaction, to George Osborne's less successful
attempts to rearrange his features into something other than a sneer. But the
clear winner was Gordon Brown for That Smile - a chilling thing, desperately
trying to convey bonhomie only to resemble the face of a serial killer as he
corners another defenceless victim.

Grassroots Campaigner of the Year

Esther Rantzen, standing as an Independent in Luton South, who went canvassing
at a mosque with the words: "Good morning. I'm a 69-year-old Jewish lady and I
want your vote."

The Bad Creativity Prize for most misleading broadcast

A Conservative internet-only video called 13 Years of Labour Failure. It
included footage of the Millennium Dome, a project started under the last
Conservative government, with a newspaper headline saying that ministers had
accepted it had been a mistake. And footage of the Iraq war with a headline from
the Daily Mirror saying that the weapons dossier was "dodgy", although
Conservative MPs supported the war more enthusiastically than Labour MPs did.

The Front-line Services Award for most irritating cliche

"Game changer"; but "black hole", "three-horse race" and "the elephant in the
room" were worthy runners-up.

Most opaque party

Most parties' names contain at least an intimation of their attitudes to life:
Greens, Liberals, Conservatives - all capture something of the essence of the
grouping. So it is with some of the minor parties: The Official Monster Raving
Loony Party, Get the Snouts Out of the Trough Party, Scotland Against Crooked
Lawyers, and Community Need Before Private Greed. Not so with the Virtue
Currency Cognitive Appraisal Party. And a visit to their website to read their
manifesto clinched the award. It is long, full of random capital letters, and,
one suspects, drafted in green ink. Something of its impenetrable flavour can be
gleaned from the opening lines: "How Money became abolished, or should be
abolished if it as such, it still exists, is because Nanotechnology computer
Bum-Downers broke the Censorship upon which the evil stuff depended for its
lethal existence." We think they're opposed to money, but wouldn't bet on it.

The Insult the Voters' Intelligence Prize for crudest slogan

"Sod the Lot" - the UK Independence Party.

Most toe-curling moment of the debates

A category dominated by the brooding, and spectacularly untelegenic Gordon
Brown. A strong case was made for his attempted joke - the point when, at what
he thought was an appropriate moment, he produced a pre-scripted remark: "These
two guys remind me of my two young boys squabbling at bath time." But in the
end, it was decided that, for sheer, peep-between-your-fingers embarrassment, it
could not match his refrain of the first debate: "I agree with Nick."

Most risible bribe

This award, for the Eatanswill Shield, goes to David Cameron and the
Conservatives, for thinking that that cliched body of mugs, "hard-working
families", would be seduced into giving him their votes by the thought of an
extra £3 a week.

Silliest anti-Clegg story

Once the first debate was over and the Liberal Democrats surged in the polls on
the back of their leader's performance, the Tory papers went into panic-struck
silly smear mode. Nick Clegg was posh! He'd been an amateur actor! He was a bit
foreign! He spoke foreign, too! And he liked Europe! Not content with that, the
Telegraph produced a story about money, which went nowhere; and the Sun and
Express implied he was possibly the biggest threat to Britain since the
Luftwaffe. But the Mail, snide as ever, produced the winner (above left): a
story based on a 2002 article in which Clegg wrote: "'All nations have a cross
to bear, and none more so than Germany with its memories of Nazism. But the
British cross is more insidious still. A misplaced sense of superiority,
sustained by delusions of grandeur and a tenacious obsession with the last war,
is much harder to shake off." Once translated into malicious Mailspeak, Clegg's
view became that our cross was GREATER than German guilt over the Nazis. Thus,
the headline: "Clegg in Nazi slur on Britain". Goebbels couldn't have done it
better.

The Comedy Playhouse Award for best heckle of the campaign

On the day before polling day, Nick Clegg declaimed: "Some people will say it
can't be done." Voice from the back of the crowd: "It can't be done!"

Most self-interested intervention

The assiduous letter-writing by sundry "business leaders", in support of
Conservative opposition to a rise in National Insurance contributions. Their
motivation, they said, was a concern for the nation, for the poor little people
whose future employment might be jeopardised by this small on-cost. It had, of
course, nothing to do with hitting them marginally in the bottom lines, and
therefore trimming their own multidigited salaries and bonuses. Perish the
thought.

Most judicious choice of clothing

David Cameron for shrewdly declining to wear a morning suit for his sister's
wedding. He rather stuck out in his vote-for-me suit, but spared himself the
embarrassment of being pictured in Bullingdon-style toff togs.

Least helpful celebrity intervention

Simon Cowell, who came out for the Tories. This was not exactly the shock of the
campaign, since he is an immensely rich man famous for his put-downs of ordinary
people. His demeanour manages to make the Conservatives' other big-name backer,
Sir Michael Caine, look like St Francis of Assisi.

Most memorable image of the campaign

There is one image that no amount of therapy and tranquilising drugs will remove
for a long time. And that, of course, is Gordon Brown sitting in a BBC studio
for The Jeremy Vine Show, headphones slightly awry, burying his head in his
hands as the recording of his Gillian Duffy outburst is played back to him
(left).

The Elephant in the Room Award for most under-debated issue

Climate change: David Cameron did mention his opposition to a third runway at
Heathrow - in an interview with the IoS at London City Airport, before he got on
a private jet to Manchester. In a close contest, the deficit failed to make the
cut, because it was discussed (including by this newspaper) even if mostly as an
issue being avoided by the parties. This newspaper also identified the
international military operation in Afghanistan as under-debated.

Most anti-gay Tory

Philippa Stroud, candidate in Sutton and Cheam, who, according to a report in
The Observer, founded a church which believed that homosexuality could be cured
by the power of prayer. She lost.

Where Were They? Award

George Osborne (right) emerged the winner in a competition made complicated by
its being a test of absence. Like that game where you have to name the objects
that have been removed from a tray, it was hard to judge the relative
non-presence of: women, collectively; David Davis; Vince Cable; Oliver Letwin;
and John Major.

Most arcane reference in a speech

Gordon Brown rolled out a reprise of his greatest hits in his suddenly
passionate speech to Citizens UK, ending with citations of Cicero and
Demosthenes. Purists said he was misquoting, but we join the applause for his
attempt to raise the tone. Should have been in the Greek, though.

Most apposite metaphor

Nigel Farage's plane crash on polling day. The former Ukip leader emerged
bloodied but intact from the wreckage of a light aircraft that had been towing a
"Vote Ukip" banner, which rendered further commentary superfluous. Run a close
second by a nasty car smash metres away from a Labour campaign launch in
Birmingham, when the sound of screaming tyres, breaking glass and smashing metal
interrupted Peter Mandelson's introduction of Gordon Brown.

LOAD-DATE: May 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday

THERE WAS PETROL IN MY HAIR AND I THOUGHT: THIS IS GOING TO GO BANG

BYLINE: BY JAMES MILLBANK

LENGTH: 405 words


FORMER UKIP leader Nigel Farage yesterday spoke of the moment he thought he was
going to die when his light aircraft crashed on polling day, saying: 'I must be
the luckiest man alive.'

Shortly before being discharged from the John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, Mr
Farage, 46, called the incident 'the scariest moment of my life'. He said: 'I
can't believe that the pilot and I came out of that.'

He and Justin Adams realised they would crash after the UKIP banner they were
flying got caught on their single-engined plane. Mr Farage said: 'I thought,
"I'll just sit here and keep calm. He doesn't want to die either".'

As they nosedived at 70mph, Mr Farage said: 'I just thought, "I hope this is
over quickly".'

The Parliamentary candidate, who failed in his bid to oust Speaker John Bercow
from his Buckingham seat, added that the worst part was being trapped as petrol
poured from the wreckage on to his clothes and hair. 'I thought, "God, we
survived the impact, now we're going to burn to death".'

He was pulled out by shocked onlookers at the airfield in Northamptonshire and
rushed to hospital in Banbury before being transferred to Oxford.

With bruises and stitches on his face, he said: 'You want to see the rest of me.
My ribs are cracked and my lungs are bruised.' He also revealed he had a broken
sternum as well as a chipped spine. Having seen photos of the wreckage, he said:
'I'm impressed my tie was still done up, though my shoes could have been
cleaner.'

Mr Farage revealed moments before take-off he had joked: 'I just hope the plane
doesn't blow up and crash.'

He admitted: 'Part of this was to prove flying wasn't something to fear. But
it's proved I do fear it. I'll never be doing that again.' The MEP added: 'I'm
going to be better in three weeks' time and I'll go back to Brussels to annoy
everybody.'

Speaking from his home in Hersham, Surrey, Mr Adams, 45, said: 'My main concern
was to land the plane. I knew there was a village below and did not want to go
anywhere near there.

'If only I'd taken up a candidate from the Christian Party instead then maybe we
would have had a bit of extra help. But it could have been far, far worse.'

Mr Adams, who owns the Sky Banners firm hired by Mr Farage for 6350-an-hour,
suffered burns to his arms and chest, and cuts to his legs.

He refused to be drawn on the specific cause of the crash. An inquiry by the Air
Accidents Investigation Branch is expected to take several months.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 9, 2010

Oh, this year I'm off to sunny Solaria: Rem Koolhaas has helped come up with a
daring plan to run Europe on a grid of shared renewable energy - and redraw the
map of the continent at the same time

BYLINE: Rowan Moore

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW ARTS PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1260 words


I well remember my interview for a place at architecture school. As a kindly
tutor leafed through my cobbled-together portfolio, on the wall I noticed a
photo of a trapezoidal cabin with a whirly helical thing on top. It was, I was
told, a prototype of an energy-efficient house, a concept of which I was then
only dimly conscious.

That was more decades ago than I care to think, and it goes to show that green
architecture is nothing new. It goes to the heart of the paradox most architects
face: they tend to be hopeful, liberal types who want to change things for the
better, but construction requires money and power, which are not always in the
hands of the nicest people. So nice architects find themselves working for
not-nice clients. Similarly with environmental matters: buildings gobble energy
and resources in their construction and use, so the most ecological thing might
be not to build them at all, but that would put architects out of work. So they
are drawn to that conscience-salving potential oxymoron, the green building.

Just as what was once called health food has gone from muddy lentils to crisp
Ottolenghi sophistication, so green architecture has been through many phases.
For a while, it wore its ecology on its sleeve, sticking conspicuous turbines
and ventilators on roofs, as in the large bronze chimneys over Portcullis House,
the MPs' office building next to Big Ben. Now it tends to be a more technical
matter, governed by the calculations of the engineering consultancies that have
grown up to make buildings sustainable.

There has also been a shift in scale since my tutor's cabin. Now architects
design green cities, such as Dongtan in China, or Foster and Partners' $22bn
Masdar City in Abu Dhabi, which is currently on show at the Sustainable Futures
exhibition at the Design Museum. But none have gone as far as the Office of
Metropolitan Architecture (OMA), the practice created by Rem Koolhaas. It is
proposing to redesign an entire continent - ours, Europe - along energy-saving
lines. In fact, they would like to include North Africa as well. As Reinier de
Graaf, the partner in charge of the proposal, says: "Megalomania is a standard
part of our repertoire."

Called Roadmap 2050, it is a plan calculated to make the Ukip-ians of this world
bubble and froth with rage, as it combines the belief that drastic intervention
is required to mitigate climate change, with a desire to give meaning and power
to the European Union. It has been commissioned by the European Climate
Foundation, a philanthropic body dedicated to promoting policies that reduce
greenhouse gas emissions, and it aims to show how the EU can achieve an
incredible-seeming target of an 80% reduction in carbon emissions by 2050. The
proposal is being considered by the EU Council of Ministers, for their possible
endorsement.

The proposal's starting point is the fact that renewable energy sources such as
wind and sunshine are erratic and unreliable, which means they have to be
supported by other forms of power. But they are also available in different
quantities in different places - wind is abundant in Britain, sun in Spain - and
in different seasons. The big idea is to create a power network across the
continent linking all these sources, which could then compensate for each other.
If it was windless in Britain but sunny in Spain, power could travel from them
to us, and vice versa.

This is a political, as well as a technical proposal. "You can use this project
to create integration. It creates a very pragmatic reason to integrate," says De
Graaf. It coincides with work the OMA has been doing for several years on the
ways that the European Union represents itself, through their design and
research subsidiary AMO, which "operates in areas beyond the traditional
boundaries of architecture". Koolhaas is a member of the EU's Reflection Group,
whose job is to think about what might happen a decade or two hence.

With a cheeky, provocative tone typical of OMA, they even show a map of Europe
redrawn as "Eneropa", with regions defined by their energy source. Ireland and
the western half of Britain become the "tidal states", while the eastern half
forms part of the "isles of wind". Former Yugoslavia is miraculously reunited as
"Biomassburg". Most of Portugal, Spain, Italy and Greece become "Solaria". OMA
shows images of these places, like postcards from the future, with batteries of
turbines, or plumes of geothermal steam.

OMA insists that its plan makes sense, even if you exclude climate issues. It
has produced figures to show that the scheme would not cost all that much per
head, especially when compared with road-building, war in Iraq, or bailing out
bankers. They point out the benefit of reducing reliance on Middle Eastern oil
and Russian gas. They argue that the economic benefits would outweigh the costs.
They say that a reduction of even more than 80% could be achieved if North
Africa, with all its sunshine, could be included in the grid. Their plan, they
say, is "not rooted in apocalyptic hysteria", but is eminently practical.

It's a seductive proposition: go green and get richer. It is also refreshing and
unusual to hear architects proposing environmental strategies that do not
require the future commissioning of architects to design buildings. It also
raises an obvious question: what on earth qualifies architects who spend most of
their time designing museums or office buildings or Prada stores to pronounce on
these subjects? This is partly answered by the fact that OMA is not acting
alone, but is part of a team that includes management consultants McKinsey,
energy consultants Kema and Imperial College London. But OMA still takes
responsibility for the "overarching vision".

The other question is whether to believe them. OMA has over the years shown me
new cities on islands off Korea, the transposition of Amsterdam Schiphol airport
into the North Sea, and the redesign of the European flag of gold stars on blue
into a multicoloured barcode derived from the flags of its different nations. So
far all these ideas have remained on paper. Is there any reason to think the
Roadmap would be different?

It is plain that their plan would need will and cohesion that has not been
evident in, for example, the EU's attempts to solve the Greek debt crisis.
Reinier de Graaf cites as a model President Kennedy's declaration that, before
the 1960s were out, America would put men on the moon, but Herman Van Rompuy,
the president of the European Union, is no Jack Kennedy. However, De Graaf
argues that European countries cooperate better at a practical level than an
ideological one. He also stresses that the Roadmap "doesn't require member
states to give up their identities. It allows states to be themselves."

I have, frankly, no idea if by 2050 anything like this network will exist, or
whether it will join the ranks of the fantastical and doomed, along with the
cities teeming with autogyros imagined in the 1930s, or the 1960s' faith in the
future ubiquity of hovercrafts. I doubt if anyone else knows, either. But, of
all the abstract speculations about what sustainable futures might look like,
there has not previously been one so tangible or engaging. Its value at the very
least is to get people thinking about what, actually, we do want. OMA's Roadmap
is either prophecy or provocation, but whichever way it's worth having.

Captions:

Prophecy or provocation? OMA's Eneropa, which remaps the continent into new
regions based on renewable energy sources. Below: Barcelona, in the new region
Solaria. OMA


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 9, 2010

Daniel's Oxford masterclass: It took the dazzling Berlin Philharmonic to turn a
Brahms plodder into a work of majesty: Berlin Philharmonic/Barenboim Sheldonian
theatre, Oxford Halle & BBC Philharmonic/ Elder Bridgewater Hall, Manchester
Counterpoise Pavilion theatre, Brighton

BYLINE: Fiona Maddocks

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW ARTS PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1219 words


On rare occasions, one racks one's brains to work out what had made a concert so
thrillingly exceptional. How could a performance of Brahms's Symphony No 1, an
orchestral warhorse as quintessentially standard as repertoire can be, leave an
entire audience wandering around in a daze, talking a kind of ecstatic
gibberish?

There was certainly nothing normal about the circumstances of the Berlin
Philharmonic's May Day concert. It took place on a Saturday morning in Oxford's
Sheldonian theatre, an architectural gem but hardly obvious as a venue for the
world's greatest orchestra. Designed by Sir Christopher Wren, it is small
(around 800 capacity), with stoical seating and little in the way of
sound-proofing.

The advantage is that the audience, grouped in an arc around and above the
players, becomes an intimate part of the recipe, here compounded with Daniel
Barenboim, Brahms, Wagner, Elgar and the Berliners themselves. Life-changing is
not part of the permitted critical vocabulary, but I will use it here.

Each year since reunification, the orchestra has celebrated its founding, on 1
May 1882, with a European concert in a historic city. This was the 20th. The
last in the UK was at the Royal Albert Hall in 1993. Generally, the music
director conducts, but Simon Rattle is currently working at Barenboim's opera
house, the Berlin Staatskapelle. The avowed intention of these concerts is to
"promote the idea of a united and democratic Europe by musical means". It's a
wonder Ukip wasn't outside with klaxons.

Yet in Britain the event was a surprisingly well-kept secret, hardly known about
except to the distinguished guests or the few locals who had snapped up any
remaining seats. The rest of the world was agog: TV channels in Germany, Spain,
Czech Republic, Sweden, France and Japan broadcast it live. The BBC, however,
declined the chance of a live relay, preferring to transmit it later, at an
unspecified date in the autumn. There will be a DVD. If you're impatient, watch
it on http://download.medici.tv/#/performance/740/.

Barenboim's rapport with the orchestra was evident from the intensity of the
slow Prelude to Act III of Wagner's Die Meistersinger. The hushed solemnity of
the counterpoint offered a nod at Oxford's lofty surroundings but also gave
players the chance to familiarise themselves with the lively acoustic. Perhaps
in silent tribute to Barenboim's late wife, the Oxford-born cellist Jacqueline
du Pre, the second work was Elgar's cello concerto, with Alisa Weilerstein as
soloist. The fiery young American played with infectious independence, ready to
take risks yet always at one with her fellow musicians. The results were fresh
and arresting. I heard a flute solo, an upward scurry like the rush towards a
ski-jump, I'd never noticed before.

As for the Brahms, the perfect balance of pounding, floor-shaking weight and
mercurial flight, scrupulous drill and individual expression, made for a
mesmerising performance. Barenboim variously pointed, stabbed, steered, waved,
crouched. At times he simply put his arms to his side and gave this
self-governing orchestra free rein. The finest moment, and there were countless,
was the oboe solo in the slow movement of the Brahms, which unfurled with
incomparable radiance and Olympic breath control.

What are the inner mysteries of Teutonic oboe technique, I was pondering
ineffectually, when someone pointed out that this was Jonathan Kelly, one of
five British players in the orchestra (of which 55% are German), who followed
Rattle from the City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra (CBSO) in 2003. Kelly is a
product of various county music scholarships, the National Youth Orchestra and
the Royal Academy of Music. Asked afterwards how he tackled that solo, he said
he imagined a rose opening from tight bud to full flower. Not many musicians
talk that way. Fewer still play like that. The Berlin Philharmonic is full of
them.

The excellent Mahler in Manchester series, an imaginative collaboration between
the Halle and the BBC Philharmonic, is nearing its final stages, with two
concerts left to go. Last week, instead of alternating concerts, members of the
two orchestras joined forces, together with eight top soloists, the Halle Choir,
Girls of the Halle Youth Choir, the Halle Children's Choir and the CBSO chorus
for the Symphony

No 8, nicknamed - to Mahler's horror - "Symphony of a Thousand".

This uneven work, which explodes into life with a massive, full organ E-flat
chord and choral outburst, joined an instant later by an exultant orchestra
going hell for leather, stirs the heart merely by its abundance. Its subject,
celebrated with visionary ambition and a shattering final climax, is the
creative power of love. The hymn, "Veni Creator Spiritus", provides a central
motif for the first movement, while Part II sets the final scene from Goethe's
Faust, with all its explorations of that dodgiest of paradigms and paragons, the
eternal feminine.

James Creswell, Gerald Finley and Peter Hoare sang Goethe's hermits possessed of
divine knowledge, with spiffing contributions from the children's choir as young
angels and ethereal soloists including Sarah Connolly, Catherine Wyn-Rogers and
Claire Rutter. The various choruses were impressively drilled. Mark Elder,
looking like a happy ghost by the end, marshalled an exuberant performance. And
the united orchestra showed the value, musically speaking, of a hung parliament.

One strength of this Manchester series has been the inclusion of contemporary
music alongside Mahler. Last week the French organist Olivier Latry spent a
bewitching half hour improvising on the "Veni Creator" theme, and the concert a
fortnight ago included David Matthews's new seventh symphony, programmed with
Mahler's seventh. But Matthews, who with his brother Colin worked on the
completion of Mahler's 10th in the early 1970s, was stranded in Australia thanks
to volcanic ash and missed it.

Fortunately he was present at the Brighton festival for the world premiere of
Actaeon, his setting of Ted Hughes's version of Ovid. Commissioned by the
chamber ensemble Counterpoise, this richly expressive work was scored for
violin, trumpet, saxophone, piano and narrator, here the mezzo-voiced actor
Eleanor Bron. This thought-provoking concert also featured John Casken's Deadly
Pleasures, a setting from DM Thomas's novel Ararat, narrated by John Savournin,
a heroic late replacement who took time out from daily appearances in the
sell-out, up-close La boheme at Kilburn's Cock Tavern.

In part Matthews's inspiration is Titian's Diana and Actaeon, his attention
drawn during the recent campaign to save the painting for the nation. The image
was projected, effectively, during the performance. Swirling, rippling piano and
violin arpeggios suggest a nymph-populated grotto. The trumpet depicts Diana in
all her divine anger, while a saxophone, growling and stuttering, personifies
the agonised Actaeon. Expertly delivered by all, this short work makes tense
drama out of the story of the hunter turned stag who is eaten alive by his own
unknowing hounds. In this braying dog-eats-dog election week, an old myth on the
nature of change offered a fine bone to gnaw.

Captions:

'Mesmerising': Daniel Barenboim with the Berlin Philharmonic at the Sheldonian
theatre, Oxford. Photograph by Chris Christodoulou


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 9, 2010

Next time, Fleet Street may get the election right

BYLINE: Peter Preston

SECTION: OBSERVER SPECIAL SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 583 words


Steve Bell's Guardian cartoon on the morning after the fight before hit it spot
on. Three party leaders in a line saying "Oh Shit!!! We won/lost/ drew. Delete
where inapplicable". And the same goes for Britain's main media performers, too.
Oh my bootstraps, braces and lost deposits!!! Only one gold medal seems
applicable here, too.

That, nem con, goes to John Ryley, head of Sky News, who last September led the
push to agree TV party leaders' debates. "There is a chance here . . . to
energise an electorate, to reconnect with the millions of people who have been
alienated by politics and the way it is so often covered - and to achieve
something truly democratic," he told Messrs Brown, Cameron and Clegg. And he was
right.

Ryley has changed elections for all our lifetimes - and, though you wouldn't
quite deduce it amid much press snarling, he's given newspapers a circulation
transfusion as well. What happened for three Fridays in a row after those three
TV debate Thursdays? Sales went up between 5% and 10%. You watched, you chatted,
you wanted to compare notes: so you bought a paper.

However, take the rest of TV's election coverage through almost four weeks of
campaigning and see audiences for everything except the debates shrink away.
Don't bother us with sardines when we've supped with the big fish. What's on the
cooking channel?

Take the most eloquent editorials (in the Guardian, Indie and Observer)
explaining why the Lib Dems were worthy this time round. Then look at the
results. And the election's most lumpen editorial? In the FT, oddly enough. As
in "The Tories' reflexive hostility to Europe is worrying".

Take the overmighty Sun, pledging itself to some obscure "Cam" person last
September, then singularly - for all its onslaughts on Clegg - failing to move
the Tories a single poll point forward. Cammy was on 37% when the Bun blessed
his currant, and he was 37% as the last ballot box was opened. It was the Sun
wot hung it.

And take the dodgiest front page claim by an upmarket daily. "Nick Clegg's
overnight transition from anonymity to celebrity was one of the most remarkable
public mood swings since the death of Diana, Princess of Wales".

Then cherish that mild-mannered Daily Mail lead story on pre-election day
Wednesday: BURNING ISSUE FOR BRITAIN". Picture Greek riot policeman in Molotov
cocktail flames. (Otherwise wise known as Young Nick can singe your whiskers).

Then take the big eight proper opinion pollsters themselves, samples primed,
computers programmed, and wonder what went wrong. Congratulation, chaps, you got
the hung bit right, and the Tory vote jolly near perfect. But none of you
reflected the Lib Dem collapse or put the Labour party at the 30% share it
achieved.

And finally, take a long, deep breath. Participation went up, not down. So did
interest. Reporters who never usually venture beyond the M25 found out about a
fascinating Britain, one that swung variously because it wanted to. The BNP got
extra publicity and absolutely no dice. Hilarity was Lord Pearson, the
Woosterish leader of Ukip, trying to remember what was in his manifesto, live on
humbling TV. (He's still there on YouTube). Political correspondents, used to
force feeding in lobby land, developed minds and stories of their own.

Who won in the end? Maybe we all won, after a fashion. We ought to be chastened
and more thoughtful now; less crude, less bombastic, less simply dishonest.
Because maybe one day soon we'll have to do it all over again - and need to do
it better.


LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                  May 9, 2010
                                 1 Star Edition

Nigel: I'm so lucky to live

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 64 words


UKIP plane crash victim Nigel Farage left hospital yesterday and said: "I think
I'll buy a lottery ticket tonight because I feel like the luckiest man alive."

Nigel, 46, suffered broken ribs, a chipped spine and facial injuries when his
light plane crashed during a publicity stunt near Brackley, Northants.

He added: "I only went up to prove I wasn't scared of flying. I still am."

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC:  MANGLED: Wreckage of the plane BLOODIED: Nigel Farage yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Tory gamble that failed us all

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 741 words


The biggest unanswered question arising from the unholy mess of this election
result is whether the Tories might have fared rather better had they offered the
country a more robustly Conservative alternative to what was on offer from the
other two parties, as Mrs Thatcher did in 1979. To future generations, it may
seem that the most remarkable feature of the 2010 election was that, after 13
years of one of the most disastrous governments in history, as Britain faces its
worst economic crisis for decades, the Tory party failed to win a clear victory.

From the moment Mr Cameron emerged from nowhere as leader in 2005, his defining
characteristic was his ruthless drive to create a new "Not the Conservative
Party", in his own image. On issue after issue, from his infatuation with
"greenery" and global warming to his insistence that his followers should not
"bang on about Europe", he sought to ditch traditional Conservative values and
to pursue the Lib Dem, Guardianista "centre" vote. As for his party's more
traditional core supporters, he did not so much take them for granted as treat
them with contempt.

Such was the deliberate gamble of Mr Cameron's leadership, and the verdict of
last week's election was that the gamble has not come off. For five years, it
has been evident to anyone in touch with grassroots opinion that a broad swath
of natural Tory supporters - including many readers of this column - have
watched the antics of Mr Cameron and his little clique of close allies with
bewilderment, frustration and dismay. Rarely can any Tory leader have aroused in
many of his potential voters so little positive enthusiasm, even if many did
last week reluctantly support his party.

One symptom of this on Thursday was the hidden "Ukip effect". Although support
for its individual candidates may have looked derisory, put together they polled
some 900,000 votes, making Ukip easily the fourth largest party - and, more
significantly, in around 20 seats which the Tories failed to win or hold, Ukip's
vote more than cancelled out the extent by which the Tories lost. If most of
those votes had gone to the Tories, Mr Cameron might just have scraped that
overall majority.

The truth is that the direction in which Mr Cameron has led the Tory party goes
right back to 1990. Since the fall of Mrs Thatcher, successive Conservative
leaders have sought to distance themselves from the distinctive values and
principles that made her the most successful Tory prime minister of modern
times. Instead of forging a new kind of Conservatism, based on diminishing the
role of the state and standing up robustly for the national interest - most
obviously in our approach to Europe - her successors have, one after another,
embarrassedly caricatured this as "nasty" old Toryism, seeking instead to
appease the political values of the "soft centre".

The Cameron gamble, bewitched by the success of Tony Blair, was to take this
even further, to the point where, on most of the major issues confronting the
country, his position has been virtually indistinguishable from that of the
other main parties. To see where this has left us, one has only to imagine what
might have happened last week had we had a Tory leader more like a reincarnation
of Mrs Thatcher, exposing the destructive emptiness of almost everything the New
Labour project stood for: on the bloated powers and intrusions of bureaucracy,
on Europe, on immigration, on defence, on our delusional energy policy, and
above all on by far the most serious issue confronting Britain today, that
unprecedented public spending deficit which will soon force us to cut back the
public sector on a scale no party dared mention in their irrelevant election
campaigns.

Arguably the most important section of the electorate last Thursday consisted of
those millions who stayed at home because they could see nothing in the three
centrist parties to inspire them with the idea that there was any real
alternative, offering genuine leadership. As politicians and media obsess about
electoral reform, the pressure to drive us all into some central "consensus" is
greater than ever. There is no sign of a distinctive leader with the character
to break out of that stifling consensus, to tell us some crucial home truths and
to inspire us in a new direction. To impotent "consensus", it seems, we are now
doomed.

Imagine what might have happened last week if we had a Conservative leader like
Mrs Thatcher

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: New wave: Margaret Thatcher on the doorstep of 10 Downing Street after
sweeping to power in May 1979

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FARAGE 'LUCKIEST MAN ALIVE';
NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 68 words


The former Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, yesterday declared himself the "luckiest
man alive" for surviving a plane crash on election day.

Mr Farage, who was discharged from hospital in Oxford yesterday, said: "I'm not
even keen on flying and part of this was to prove to myself that flying was not
something to be scared of."

Mr Farage, 46, failed to defeat the Commons speaker John Bercow for his
Buckingham seat.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

THE NEW POLITICAL LANDSCAPE;
Analysis

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 2328 words


So near, yet so far. That must encapsulate Tory feelings about Thursday's
result. The party made no fewer than 97 net gains, the third-highest number ever
achieved by any party at a general election. Yet the resulting tally of 307
seats not only left the party 19 short of an overall majority, but it transpired
that it was also insufficient to make it impossible for Labour to strike a deal
with the Liberal Democrats.

So why did Mr Cameron fall so agonisingly short of the finishing line? The
answer is that his attempts to connect the Conservatives with some of those
parts of Britain that had fallen out of love with the Conservative party proved
insufficient.

As a glance at our map reveals, the Tories advanced strongly across most of the
country. In most regions, the swing from Labour to the Conservatives was around
the 6.9 per cent figure it was reckoned Mr Cameron would need to hit the 326
mark.

But in three regions it did not. The most obvious is Scotland, where Labour's
vote actually went up by slightly more than that of the Conservatives. The
Scottish Tories were left languishing on a little under 17 per cent of the vote
- still less than it secured in the whitewash of 1997. It seems Scotland has
still not forgiven the party for its allegedly "colonial" style of rule in the
1980s and 1990s.

It was fortunate for Mr Cameron that relatively few of the party's target seats
were north of the border. But even so, two Labour- and two SNPheld seats where
the party had high hopes came to nought, leaving David Mundell as its only
Scottish MP.

The most surprising disappointment, though, was in London, where the swing from
Labour averaged just 3 per cent. In part, this relative failure in the capital
was part of a wider pattern - a tendency throughout the country for Labour to
perform better in areas with relatively high ethnic minority populations, a
feature, of course, of many London constituencies.

It seems that Mr Cameron's attempts to woo Britain's ethnic minorities by
promoting minority candidates have cut little ice. Labour were also probably
helped, among Muslims in particular, by greater distance from the Iraq war and
the decline of the Respect party.

In any event, it was a pattern that cost Mr Cameron dear. Five key London
marginals that the Conservatives needed to take stayed stubbornly in Labour's
hands, including Tooting, where transport minister Sadiq Khan held on with a
2,500 majority. Four further ethnic minority marginals in West Yorkshire and the
West Midlands slipped from the Tory leader's grasp too.

Mr Cameron has also tried to rekindle his party's support in the north of
England. And much of the north did indeed swing the Conservatives' way to more
or less the same degree as the rest of the country. But in one corner, the North
West, the Tories were less successful; here the swing was a little under 6 per
cent.

Slight though that shortfall may seem, the North West contained more than its
fair share of key marginals. And the region accounted for no fewer than six more
of the Labour seats that Mr Cameron needed to win but which remained in Gordon
Brown's grasp.

Meanwhile, there was no sufficient counterweight to these regional shortfalls in
performance. In particular Tory hopes - and Labour fears - that Lord Ashcroft's
efforts in concentrating resources on target seats would boost the party's
prospects were largely unfulfilled.

On average, at 5.6 per cent, the swing to the Conservatives in those seats where
Labour was defending a majority of less than 20 per cent was only a little above
the national figure of 5 per cent. Indeed the swing was never above the national
average in those seats where Labour was defending a majority of between 10 per
cent and 20 per cent, seats where an above-average swing would actually have
made all the difference.

Instead of occurring in key marginals, the strongest Tory advances were most
common in seats that the party already held. That, of course, was the very
opposite of what Mr Cameron's rebranding of his party was trying to achieve.

In the absence of a particularly strong advance in the marginals, the party was
unable to buck the anti-Tory bias exhibited by the firstpast-the-post electoral
system. It is the first time since 1923, when Stanley Baldwin lost his majority
and made way for the first Labour government, that a party with a seven-point
lead has been denied an overall majority.

That persistent bias has implications for Mr Cameron's future options should he
eventually secure the keys to Downing Street. Many have suggested he could
secure an overall majority by holding a second election soon. Trouble is, he
will still need as much as a double-digit lead in that election to do so.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics, Strathclyde University

THE TOP 20 RISING STARS

JO JOHNSON, 39, Orpington.

Eton-educated younger brother of Boris Johnson, as well as Associate Editor of
the Financial Times. Has degrees from two continental universities and could be
an asset in the Foreign Office.

NICK BOLES, 45, Grantham and Stamford.

Oxford graduate and former director of Policy Exchange, a Right-wing think tank
which, under his tenure, became one of the most influential in the country.
Former flatmate of Michael Gove and part of the Notting Hill set. Backroom
operator who played a key role in Cameron leadership campaign in 2005.

RORY STEWART, 37, Penrith and the Borders.

Old Etonian, Oxford graduate, summer tutor to Princes William and Harry and
bestselling author. Walked 6,000 miles from Turkey to Bangladesh, across Iran,
Afghanistan, Pakistan, India and Nepal. Maverick but with genuine cabinet
potential.

PRITI PATEL, 38, Witham.

William Hague's former press officer. One of a number of young MPs from ethnic
minorities set for rapid promotion under Cameron.

MATT HANCOCK, 32, West Suffolk.

The party's economic adviser. Working-class northerner who got a first at Oxford
before working as an economist for the Bank of England. Could be a future
chancellor.

LOUISE BAGSHAWE, 39 Corby

Best-selling "chick-lit" author and mother-ofthree. Studied English Literature
at Oxford. Charity work could mark her out for a role in the Department for
International Development.

CHRIS HEATONHARRIS, 42, Daventry.

Fruit and veg seller before he became Tory MEP for the East Midlands. Was Chief
Whip for Tory MEPs. Likely to progress through the whips' office to the front
rank.

PENNY MORDAUNT, 37, Portsmouth North.

Once a magician's assistant. Was head of foreign press for George W Bush's
presidential campaign. Tipped as a future transport secretary - campaigned on
the issue in her constituency.

ESTHER MCVEY, 42, Wirral West.

Former host of GMTV and friend of Kate McCann. Commercial background could make
her a future business secretary.

ZAC GOLDSMITH, 35, Richmond Park.

Ex- editor of The Ecologist and David Cameron's campaigner on the environment.
Son of the late financier Sir James Goldsmith.

CHARLOTTE LESLIE, 32, Bristol North West.

Former aide to David Willetts who has worked for the think tank Policy Exchange,
and as a PR adviser. Educated at Millfield and Oxford, she also edits Crossbow,
the Bow Group think tank's magazine.

DUNCAN HAMES, 31, Chippenham.

The head of a consulting firm, Hames went from a comprehensive to read PPE at
Oxford. Saw off a tough challenge from Wilfred Emmanuel-Jones, the Tories'
"Black Farmer", to hold his marginal seat.

JACK DROMEY, 51, Birmingham Erdington.

Married to Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader. Deputy general secretary of
Unite and treasurer of Labour. Unbeatable range of union and political contacts.

LUCIANA BERGER, 28, Liverpool Wavertree.

Director of the Labour Friends of Israel group. Girlfriend of former minister
Siôn Simon. A favourite among former supporters of Tony Blair.

TRISTRAM HUNT, 35, Stoke-on-Trent Central.

Newspaper columnist, historian and broadcaster. Fellow of influential think-tank
the Institute for Public Policy Research. Has powerful patron in Lord Mandelson.

MICHAEL DUGHER, 34, Barnsley East.

Former adviser to Gordon Brown and Geoff Hoon. Popular deal-maker with one of
the best contacts books in Westminster.

RACHEL REEVES, 31, Leeds West.

Graduated in economics from Oxford. Worked as an economist at the Bank of
England and British Embassy in Washington DC. Could be the first female
chancellor.

LIZ KENDALL, 38, Leicester West.

Special adviser to Patricia Hewitt and Harriet Harman. Former director of the
Maternity Alliance and associate director at the IPPR. Following the classic
Labour route to high office - possibly health or secretary.

CHUKA UMUNNA, 31, Streatham.

Lawyer of mixed Nigerian and English descent. Described as "Britain's Obama" and
tipped to be Labour's first black leader.

GLORIA DE PIERO, 37, Ashfield, Notts (below).

Former GMTV political correspondent. Voted 85th sexiest woman in the world in an
FHM readers' poll. Place in the media spotlight and working-class roots are
guaranteed to boost her career.

KEY SEATS

1 CANNOCK CHASE Labour often struggled where the sitting MP retired, and Tony
Wright's decision to stand down here may have helped the Tories secure their
most spectacular Labour scalp of the night, thanks to a whopping 14% swing.

Tory gain

2 KINGSWOOD The Tories required a 6.9% swing to win this seat, and on a uniform
swing, it is the seat that would, in theory, have given Mr Cameron an overall
majority. Here, the challenge was surpassed - they romped home with a 9.4%
swing.

Tory gain

3 HAMMERSMITH

Winning here was meant to ensure Mr Cameron had the most seats. But the Tories
struggled in much of London and the 0.5% swing here was woefully inadequate in
their quest to take the seat from Labour.

Labour hold

4 DUMFRIES & GALLOWAY

The Tories had only modest aims north of the border, but they did hope to take
this, their top target. But as in much of Scotland, the seat actually swung away
towards Labour - by a substantial 4.3%.

Labour hold

5 BRIGHTON PAVILION

History was made when Caroline Lucas was elected as Britain's first ever Green
MP, thanks to a 9 point increase in her vote. More people voted for smaller
parties such as the Greens, nationalists, UKIP and BNP than ever before.

Green gain

6 GUILDFORD

This was the Lib Dems' top target - they needed a swing of only 0.9 per cent -
and nothing typified the party's unexpectedly modest performance better than
their failure to take it. Their vote here actually fell back by 4 points.

Tory hold

NO SURPRISE IN LABOUR'S LOCAL GAINS

Little noticed though the contests might have been, when voters went to the
polls on Thursday, in much of England they were not only voting for their local
MP, but also to elect one or more local councillors.

At first glance, the results of the local elections appear very surprising. On
the same day that Labour was losing parliamentary seats by the dozen, it was
actually gaining council seats and gaining overall control of councils. In
total, the party made net gains of 15 councils and more than 400 councillors. It
would seem that voters were sending out very mixed messages indeed.

This, though, is an illusion. The council seats being contested last Thursday,
which included every council seat in London, were last contested in 2006, a year
after the general election. Labour performed extremely poorly in those elections
- winning the equivalent of just 26 per cent of the vote, four points below
where the party stood on Thursday. Indeed the damage it suffered on that
occasion was particularly bad in the capital.

In contrast the Tories did well in 2006, securing the equivalent of 40 per cent
of the vote, three points up on where they were on Thursday. So voters did not
have to behave differently for the local elections to give a very different
impression of who was up and who was down.

The improvement in Labour's position compared with 2006 reaped the party most
reward in London. The party gained control of no fewer than eight boroughs,
including Ealing, Enfield and Harrow, where the Conservatives had previously had
overall control.

Outside the capital Labour managed to wrest control of Liverpool from the Lib
Dems, who like the Conservatives were on the losing end of the local ballots on
Thursday. Their famed ability to garner local votes may well have been hit by
the focus on the general election.

JC

"The strongest Tory advances were in seats that the party already held

"The party made net gains of 15 councils and more than 400 councillors

Average change in percentage share of vote Since 2005 Con Lab Lib Dem -1.2 +2.1
Nat     MAP KEY Labour Conservative Lib Dem SNP Plaid Cymru Speaker Green DUP
Sinn Fein SDLP Other Postponed   2005 1 3 6 2 4 5   306 258 57 28 Conservative
Labour Liberal Democrats Other *Thirsk and Malton election delayed until 27 May
* SWINGOMETER 4 2 3 5 6 2 3 4 5 % 3.6 1.4 5.0 To Con from Lab ToCon from Lib
Dems To Lib DemsfromLabour HOUSE OF COMMONS   Labour 258 (-98) Lib Dem 57 (-5)
White 623 (-8) Black 9 (+5) Asian 17 (+6) Others 28 (-2) Conservative 306 (+108)
State 394 (-47) Private 206 (+1) Homeschooled 1 (+1) Unknown 48 AGE Returning
409 (-118) New 240 (+121) NEW AND OLD SCHOOLING PARTY RACE 18-29 17 (+14) 30-39
98 (+9) 40-49 199 (+8) 50-59 206 (-43) 60-69 94 (-6) 70+ 16 (+2) Unknown 19 Male
508 (-10) Female 141 (+13) GENDER Brackets indicate change on 2005 figures.
NOTE: The number of seats has risen from 646 to 650 with one yet to be decided
65.1 61.4 59.4 71.4 77.7 1992 1997 2001 2005 2010 Seats Votes 0 0 100 200 300
400 500 92 97 01 05 10 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% BREAKDOWN OFTHE NEW PARLIAMENT BY...
THE TURNOUT ANDHOW THE VOTESAFFECTED THE RESULTS 6 TURNOUT SEATS WON AGAINST
VOTES CAST After election Before election ENGLISH LOCALAUTHORITIES 182 178 33 50
26 21 79 71

HOW THE COUNTRY SWUNG London Sth East Sth West Eastern E. Midlands W. Midlands
Yorks. & Humber Nth West Nth East Wales Scotland +3.1 +4.8 +4.3 +3.4 +4.0 +4.5
+3.9 +3.0 +4.0 +4.4 +0.9 -2.8 -8.2 -7.6 -10.3 -9.3 -8.1 -10.0 -5.9 -10.0 -7.0
+2.1 +0.1 +1.0 +2.0 +2.0 +2.2 +1.8 +2.2 +0.1 -0.1 +1.5 -3.8 Source: Robert Ford,
Manchester University

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Holding on: Sadiq Khan, a surprise winner for Labour in Tooting

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

FARAGE 'LUCKIEST MAN ALIVE';
NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 49 words


Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader, said he was the "luckiest man alive" as he
was discharged from hospital yesterday following his plane crash on election
day.

"I'm not even keen on flying and part of this was to prove to myself that flying
was not something to be scared of," said Mr Farage, 46.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL CAUGHT ON CAMERA;
The good, the bad and the bizarre-our 2010 election photograph album

SECTION: ELECTION 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 525 words


I HAVE A DREAM ...

David Cameron delivers a speech at a school in Bury

TRAVELS WITH MANDY

Lord Mandelson, the Business Secretary, sits alone on Labour's battle bus in
Manchester and, far right, hits the dance floor with Hannah Mackenzie in
Blackpool's Tower Ballroom

THE KINGS AND I

Gordon Brown enjoyed support from Tony Blair, the former Prime Minister, who
showed off a Vote Labour cake baked by a voter in Denshaw, near Oldham, and Mark
Right, an Elvis impersonator, in Corby

DRIVEN TO DRINK

Beer pumps in a Westminster pub decorated with the faces of the party leaders.

Right: Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrats Treasury spokesman, is watched by a
black cat, and (far right) a car crash at a bus shelter in Birmingham during a
poster launch by Gordon Brown

OUT FOR THE COUNT

Above: Nigel Farage, the Ukip MEP, is helped from the wreckage of a light plane
that crashed while he was trying to fly an election banner. To add insult to
injury, Mr Farage failed in his attempt to unseat John Bercow, the Speaker of
House of Commons, coming third in the poll

IF I COULD TURN BACK TIME

Left: Nick Clegg - sitting in front of a drawing of Dr Who's time-travelling
Tardis at a primary school in Manchester - looks as if he can see into the
future and his party's disappointing show at the polls

STEPPING OUT WITH MY GIRL

Right: David Cameron and his wife, Samantha, leave the launch of the
Conservative Party manifesto at Battersea Power Station

CARELESS WHISPERS

Gordon Brown (top) slumps head in hand on Jeremy Vine's BBC Radio 2 show when he
is told that a recording of his comments about Rochdale widow Gillian Duffy
(above), whom he called a bigoted woman, is about to be played to him - and the
electorate

David Cameron (above right) looks happy while enjoying an election cuppa

HE SPEAKS, THEY LISTEN

Nick Clegg talks to the media after returning to Liberal Democrat headquarters
in London on the day after the election night

GET 'EM YOUNG

TALKING ABOUT THE YOUNG GENERATION

There were many babies to be cooed over on the campaign trail (from the top):
David and Samantha Cameron in Tamworth, Staffordshire; Gordon Brown and Mike
O'Brien, the Health Minister who eventually lost his seat by 54 votes, look in
on Caitlin Atkins, 18 months old, at a back garden in Bedworth, in the Midlands;
and Nick Clegg chats to a father with a two-weekold daughter, Esme, in
Northampton

LEADERS' WIVES

HELPING HANDS

Sarah Brown shows off what she's done to the garden at No 10; Samantha Cameron
serves lunch on the campaign trail, and Miriam Gonzalez Durantez helps her
husband build a wall

CAMPAIGN CASUALTIES

Nick Clegg's wife nurses a fractured elbow after falling over while shopping;
and Cherie Blair takes a break in Darlington during a visit to support Labour
candidate Jenny Chapman

BROWN SAID: "Labour will be restless and relentless reformers. Reformers of the
market and reformers of the state

CAMERON SAID: "You should hold office because people have voted for you, not
because your party has stitched up some kind of deal

CLEGG SAID: "I think something exciting is happening. I think more and more
people are just starting to believe that we can do something different this time

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MURDO MACLEOD/AP PHOTO/CHRIS JACKSON/ CHRIS RADBURN/PA WIRE/BIG
PICTURES PHOTO.COM/ NORTH NEWS & PICTURES LTD/PETER MACDIARMID/ GETTY IMAGE/DAVE
THOMPSON/WPA POOL/GETTY IMAGES/REUTERS/LUKE MACGREGOR/AP PHOTO/ KIRSTY
WIGGLESWORTH/STEVE PARSONS/PA WIRE/ JEFF J MITCHELL/GETTY IMAGES/ INS NEWS
AGENCY/ CHRIS RADBURN/PA WIRE/ENTERPRISE NEWS AND PICTURES/OLI SCARFF/GETTY
IMAGES/MARK LARGE/ ALEX FOLKES/NEWSTEAM.CO.UK/DOMINIC LIPINSKI/PA WIRE/ BEN
STANSALL/AFP/GETTY IMAGES/REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE ELECTION CAMPAIGN DAY-BY-DAY

SECTION: ELECTION 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 2,3,4,5,6,7,8

LENGTH: 1313 words


Your complete guide to the highs and lows of a historic campaign

06.04.10

It's 10.47am: after weeks of speculation, the time has come. Members of the
Labour Cabinet emerge from 10 Downing Street, closely followed by Alistair
Darling and Gordon Brown, who finally announces the date of the general
election: May 6.

07.04.10

Last PMQs held before parliament is dissolved. The BBC's Laura Kuennsberg
compares the atmosphere in parliament to "the end of the school term".

08.04.10

Sir Michael Caine joins the political fray, and comes out in favour of David
Cameron and his National Citizen Service initiative. Samantha Cameron and Sarah
Brown are spotted on the campaign trail for the first time.

09.04.10

David Cameron interviewed by Evan Davis on the Today programme. Asked who was
the best prime minister of the 20th century, Cameron replies: "Obviously,
Winston Churchill because he saved our country." And Frank Cook, deselected by
Labour two years ago, announces he is to stand as an independent.

10.04.10

Bookies cut odds from 9/4 to 6/4 on Tory Antony Calvert defeating Labour's Ed
Balls in Morley and Outwood. Meanwhile, Samantha Cameron is filmed riding in the
back seat of a car without a seatbelt on. Miriam Gonzalez Durantez puts in a
rare public appearance beside her husband, Nick Clegg.

11.04.10

David Cameron walks out with Sir Ian Botham on the latter's charity walk. Neil
Kinnock points out that Gordon Brown has got a "radio face", though the former
Labour leader believes this "is going to work to his [Brown's] advantage".

12.04.10

As the clock strikes 12, the Labour Party manifesto is launched. Controversy
surrounds the venue: the private finance-funded Queen Elizabeth Hospital in
Birmingham. And controversy surrounds three Labour MPs facing trial over expense
claims, as it emerges they are receiving legal aid.

13.04.10

Piano rock band Keane's Everything's Changing kicks off the Conservative Party
manifesto launch at Battersea power station - the band is unhappy that the
Tories didn't ask permission to use the song. Meanwhile, Gordon Brown admits
that he "made mistakes" as chancellor.

14.04.10

The Liberal Democrats launch their manifesto, and deputy leader Vince Cable
accuses Labour and the Tories of having "an elephant in the room" - he then
introduces himself as "the elephant man".

15.04.10

It has been a long time coming, but the day has at last arrived. The first
television leaders' debate - hosted by ITV - is held. But will it help or hinder
the democratic process? Nick Clegg stuns the nation, and leaves Gordon Brown
thinking twice about ever again saying: "I agree with Nick."

16.04.10

Eddie Izzard joins the campaign trail: on the side of Labour. After the previous
night's debate performance, Bookmakers William Hill says it has seen "the
biggest betting frenzy on the Liberals since Lloyd George was prime minister".

17.04.10

Nigel Farage, Ukip leader and election candidate, hands over his £500 election
deposit in £1 coins as he stands against Commons speaker John Bercow in
Buckingham.

18.04.10

Television presenter Dan Snow wins what every political leader is striving for -
the backing of the British people - as he sets off for France with five
speedboats to "rescue" Britons stranded by the Icelandic volcanic ash crisis.

19.04.10

Cleggmania may be taking off, but planes at British airports remain grounded.
Gordon Brown holds a meeting of Cobra, and then announces his very own volcanic
ash rescue operation and enlists the Royal Navy... But is it a rip-off of a plan
by Theresa Villiers, the shadow transport secretary?

20.04.10

Day 15 of the campaign, and Gordon Brown makes it to BBC Radio 1 - and is given
a grilling by its young audience. On cleaning expenses, Brown defends himself:
"It wasn't wrong to have cleaning expenses. I was just paying too good a wage."
It's also the day that the SNP launches its manifesto.

21.04.10

Doom and gloom from Tory veteran Ken Clarke, who warns that a hung parliament
will result in the IMF having to step in to help Britain.

Cameron is the target of the first thrown egg of the campaign - it strikes a
glancing blow off his shoulder, but a protection officer takes the full force.

22.04.10

Marmite versus the British National Party, after the latter uses a jar of the
love-ithate-it spread in a political broadcast. And how clean is Nick Clegg?
Allegations surface over donors wiring money into his personal account. The
second TV debate takes place - and Clegg shines again.

23.04.10

David Cameron is grilled by Jeremy Paxman. And Cameron's hoodie eggthrower is
released without charge, but he doesn't go without punishment - his mother has
the final say, calling him "stupid".

24.04.10

Nick Clegg takes the day off to spend time with his children (and his wife,
Miriam Gonzalez Durantez, fractures her elbow while out shopping). Elvis (aka
Mark Wright) joins the campaign trail for Labour - in Corby.

25.04.10

Could Gordon Brown end up "squatting" in No 10? Nick Clegg thinks so, just
because of the UK voting system, which could hand Labour power even if they come
third in the popular vote.

26.04.10

Ed Balls, the children's secretary, is issued a £60 fine for driving while using
a mobile phone. He says, "It was a fair cop." Meanwhile, the Tories identify 20
Labour seats "that have unexpectedly become winnable" following the Lib Dem
"bounce".

27.04.10

The Scottish National Party lodges a court appeal in Edinburgh against the BBC's
decision to exclude them from the final prime ministerial debate (they fail).
And David Cameron is confronted by Jonathan Bartley, whose son has spina bifida,
over the Tory schools policy for disabled children.

28.04.10

Bigotgate: Gordon Brown meets the public - and it's not good. He is recorded
calling Gillian Duffy, a Rochdale voter, "bigoted". A swift mea culpa follows.
And the Institute of Fiscal Studies accuses all three parties of not coming
clean over their future spending plans.

29.04.10

With just a week to go, the final leaders' debate takes place, and 7.5million
watch. In polls immediately after the programme, David Cameron comes out the
winner, with Nick Clegg in a strong second place. Gordon Brown trails.

30.04.10

The biggest of the big guns takes to the campaign trail: Labour calls on Tony
Blair to help bolster Gordon Brown's prospects. Labour also launches its latest
poster campaign; the event, however, is overshadowed by a car crash close by.

01.05.10

While making a speech at the National Glass Centre in Sunderland, Gordon Brown
is heckled by Julian Borthwick, from London. Mr Borthwick is removed from the
event. Newspapers start declaring their party allegiances, with only one - the
Mirror - coming out in support of Labour.

02.05.10

Wales and Scotland host the last of their television debates. Plaid Cymru
accuses Labour of being a "spent force". And Rochdale's Mrs Duffy says in an
interview that Gordon won't be getting her vote - but nor will any other party.

03.05.10

No bank holiday for the politicians on the stump. Meanwhile, north of the
border, Murdo MacLeod (former Celtic and Scotland footballer) is cheering on the
Conservatives.

04.05.10

The Icelandic ash cloud returns and David Cameron's take-off for the people of
Northern Ireland is delayed. And Gordon Brown receives the seal of approval from
Duncan Bannatyne, the Dragons' Den entrepreneur.

05.05.10

Final push for votes: David Cameron campaigns throughout the night, "fighting
for every vote" in Cumbria, Lancashire, Yorkshire and Lincolnshire - and Simon
Cowell comes out in support of the Tories. Brown and Clegg state the obvious:
it's time for voters to make a choice.

THE POLLS AS OF 02.05.10 LAB 25 % CONS 36 % LIBDEMS 32 % *Results supplied by
ICM

THE POLLS AS OF 25.04.10 *Results supplied by ICM LIBDEMS 31 % CONS 35 % LAB 26
%

THE POLLS CONS 36 % LIBDEMS 32 % AS OF 18.04.10 LAB 25 % *Results supplied by
sICM

THE POLLS LAB 30 % *Results supplied by ICM CONS 38 % LIBDEMS 21 % AS OF
11.04.10

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE JOY OF BEING CRUEL TO OUR MPs

SECTION: ELECTION 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 969 words


Watching the election result develop on Friday morning, I felt like Monica
Lewinsky, unable to get Bill Clinton out of my mind. Running through my head was
his pronouncement after the Bush/ Gore election of 2000: "The people have
spoken, but it will take a while to determine exactly what they said."

The results were so capricious, the swings so random, that you knew early on
that it was going to be a long night, leavened only by Lembit Öpik's entry for
the Michael Portillo Award for most humiliating exit.

Even the finest pundits, commentators and celebrities that the BBC could
assemble were unsure where this was all heading. "What do you make of the exit
poll?" Andrew Neil asked an eager Bruce Forsyth. "Very high, very high," said
Brucie, cryptically. In the end, the poll, dismissed by Piers Morgan as
unbelievable, turned out to be astonishingly accurate, suggesting Piers himself
has a margin of error of around 98 per cent.

But there was one firm conclusion to draw - boy, do we know how to stitch up our
politicians. On their knees and punch-drunk after four weeks of hectic
campaigning, our would-be rulers woke up (or rather, went to bed) on Friday
morning to find that the electorate had left no single party with the authority
or the mandate to form a government. To add to the confusion, we had the
spectacle of incompetence at the polling booths, which left Afghan observers,
over here to monitor the election, scratching their heads and tutting like
tabloid readers poring over another article on Broken Britain.

The truth is that the bond between public and politicians is fractured - and
after the capricious way we've behaved this week, it may be a while before our
leaders feel they can trust us again. I suppose it was inevitable. While the Lib
Dems want to see fairness hard-wired into the British system, our viewing habits
suggest we're getting very good at using our votes to whack people over the
head.

The audience for I'm A Celebrity ... Get Me Out Of Here! took the first
opportunity to boot out Robert Kilroy-Silk - but not before making the former MP
undergo every unpleasant trial possible. A hung parliament is our way of keeping
our discredited politicians behind after school, forced to do deals in the
knowledge that none of them has our unqualified support.

I saw for myself some of the distrust, disillusionment and anger that produced
this verdict when I was on tour last month.

The route took in a dozen marginal seats - such as Harlow, Rochdale, Guildford
and Cheltenham - together with some seats, like Tunbridge Wells and Horsham,
that will only ever be three-way contests between the Tories, Ukip and the Pony
Club.

While we kept to comedy in the first half, after the interval we got the
audience to interrogate a panel of MPs, candidates or commentators. The mood was
set by a questioner in Sheffield: "If we're going to have a hung parliament," he
asked, "who should we start with?" Polled on whether they'd welcome the option
of "none of the above" on the ballot paper, many of the public expressed
agreement. "The trouble is," said Tony Benn, "in some constituencies, 'none of
the above' would actually win!" In Dartford, a man in the audience said that
he'd changed his name to 'None of the Above' and was standing in Chingford.
Ladbrokes offered him the same odds as the Liberal Democrat. In the end, though,
he was defeated by most of the above, receiving only 202 votes. "Are you excited
about the election?" I would ask the audience each night. A few cheered, but
that quickly turned to laughter, as a wave of indifference swept the theatre. I
was reminded of Willie Whitelaw's 1974 description of Harold Wilson "going
around the country stirring up apathy". All that changed with the leadership
debates, which certainly engaged the public, even though they sucked the air out
of the rest of the campaign (bigots in Rochdale aside).

Confronted by the two main candidates, the public saw a third bloke standing on
the left with his hands in his pockets and thought: "I rather like the look of
him. Who is he?" All the more galling for David Cameron: having spent months
telling people to vote for someone young, fresh and different, he then had to
point out that it wasn't Nick Clegg he had in mind.

So the apathy went, and we realised we were hungry for change after all. It was
just that, as a country, we weren't really sure what we wanted to eat. We knew
we might not get another meal for the next five years, so thought we might
settle for a snack, and see how it went. If, like the Greeks, we were to take to
the streets today, our slogan would go something like this: "What do we want?"
"We don't know!" 'When do we want it?" "Now!" At least, the politicians know
what they want: they want power. Lord Mandelson spent most of Friday night
twitching his tail and purring at the Lib Dems, before finally jumping up on to
Nick Clegg's lap, only to find Nick Clegg doesn't like cats. Gordon Brown has
tried to cling to power by his fingernails, even though he doesn't have any.

But while we know the politicians want power, it's still unclear what they want
to do with it. In Hove, I asked a Tory candidate what change would look like
under David Cameron. I listened for an answer, but all I heard was: "It's our
turn."

From Nick Clegg, all we hear is "No, no, you've had your turn, it's OUR turn",
and from Gordon Brown: "Go away. I haven't finished yet. And anyway,
constitutionally, it's my ball, and I'll take it with me."

So what will we end up with? Who knows. And in the end, will it make much
difference? As one of the panellists pointed out on our tour, there's a sad
truth about our system: whoever you vote for, the government always gets in.

The bond between public and politicians is fractured - and it may be a while
before they feel they can trust us again

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Trials and triumphs (clockwise from top left): Clive Betts, an MP for
Sheffield; Alan Hope, of the Monster Raving Loony Party; Caroline Lucas, the
first Green MP; new MPs Zac Goldsmith and Yasmin Qureshi; and two losers, Jacqui
Smith and Esther Rantzen
JOHN GILES/STEFAN ROUSSEAU/CHRIS ISON/ YUI MOK/ PA WIRE/TONY SPENCER/GETTY
IMAGES/DAVID ROSE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Hung parliaments give disproportionate power to smaller parties

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 552 words


SIR - Advocates of proportional representation fail to point out that this
inevitably results in hung parliaments at every election. A proliferation of
minority parties has enough seats to hold major parties to ransom.

This means that countries are governed by a large number of small, otherwise
irrelevant parties, who hold the balance of power - just as the Liberal
Democrats now do in Britain. The distasteful horse-trading to determine what mix
of parties rules our country would be the norm.

Consider that the BNP and Ukip would now have seats in Parliament with
proportional representation, and it becomes clearer how our policies would be
formed.

B. M. Cox Wimpole, Cambridgeshire SIR - Many who supported one of the smaller
parties will have been dismayed at the disproportionate results obtained from
the current first-past-the-post system. While the Greens will be delighted at
their success in Brighton Pavilion, where they won a seat with only 285,616
votes, representing a mere 1 per cent, Ukip supporters will be disappointed
after failing to win even one seat, despite polling 917,832 votes, or 3.1 per
cent.

This inequality is even further emphasised by the fact that the Alliance Party
also won a seat with a minuscule 42,762 votes, or 0.1 per cent, while the Social
Democratic and Labour Party, with only 110,970 votes (0.4 per cent), actually
got three seats. Richard Shaw Dunstable, Bedfordshire SIR - I have voted Liberal
Democrat for the past three general elections. For this, I am rewarded with Nick
Clegg discussing the formation of a coalition government with the Conservatives.

I am pro-European, ardently for scrapping Trident, totally against repealing the
ban on hunting and against so much more that the Tories clearly support.

If Mr Clegg sells my vote cheaply, I - and others like me - will never vote
Liberal Democrat again.

Henry Page Newhaven, East Sussex SIR - Now is the time for the Liberal Democrats
to show their mettle and help the Conservative Party bring Britain back from the
economic abyss.

They have the opportunity to really assist reforming our country - or they can
decide to sit on the sidelines and truly demonstrate that a Liberal vote is a
wasted vote.

M. Hampton West Wratting, Cambridgeshire SIR - The most unsavoury thing I have
seen since Friday is Mr Brown's belief that he may have a right to remain as the
country's leader. This is contemptible given that it comes from a prime minister
who the voters have never chosen and who, for electoral reasons, presided over
the expansion of public-sector workers and of immigration. Despite this, he
still lost more seats than any Labour leader for decades. Mr Clegg has his
chance to make a difference, rather than just talk about it, by helping Mr
Cameron. He must put his country first and not his party's interests.

Richard Bott Taunton, Somerset SIR - Listening to ministers, it seems that a new
party, the Progressives, stood in the election. Amazingly their protagonists
feel they are able to command a majority. They are clearly a shy bunch - we had
not seen or heard of them until the day after voting.

Michael Duffy London SE12 SIR - I am reminded of Robert Mugabe, who, having
presided over unprecedented economic decline, clung to power despite electoral
defeat.

Sir Michael Ferguson Davie Bt Evercreech, Somerset

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Many hoped that the Labour Government would have been swept away by
Friday lunchtime
DOMINIC LIPINSKI/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE real miracle of [...]

BYLINE: Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 44 words


THE real miracle of the election was Nigel Farage's extraordinary escape from
his polling day plane crash. The former UKIP leader is a true gent and I wish
him a swift recovery. Knowing Nigel, though, I bet he'll find a way of blaming
the crash on Brussels bureaucrats.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

I was lucky to survive, says plane crash MEP

BYLINE: Ronald Yates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 133 words


UKIP's Nigel Farage was released from hospital in Oxford yesterday after being
injured in a light aircraft crash while campaigning for the General Election.

The MEP, who failed to unseat the speaker John Bercow in Buckingham, said of the
accident: "I can't believe my luck. To survive something like that is unusual
and to do so without being in a wheelchair for the rest of your life. I'm going
to be better in three weeks' time. I'm going to go back to Brussels and annoy
everybody, so I have been incredibly lucky."

Mr Farage, 46, who was treated for cracked ribs, bruised lungs and a chipped
spine, said the worst part of Thursday's crash in Northamptonshire was being
stuck in the plane: "There was petrol everywhere. I thought 'God, we've survived
the impact and now we're going to burn to death.' "

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INJURED: Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage downfall;
OAP road rage and death penalty for Mumbai terrorist ; TOP STORIES FROM THE UK

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 189 words


Farage downfall Election The UK Independence party (UKIP) candidate Nigel Farage
was hurt in a plane crash, pictured above, during an election day stunt. The
former UKIP leader, who was trying to unseat the Commons Speaker, John Bercow,
was kept in hospital after suffering head injuries in the accident at an
airfield in Northamptonshire.

Farage, 46, was the passenger in a light aircraft towing a 15ft "Vote for your
country - Vote UKIP" banner when it plunged to the ground after the banner got
snagged on the tailplane.

The single-engine plane nose-dived 30ft and broke up on impact. Neil Hall, a
photographer who was asked to capture the publicity stunt on camera, said he
feared that both Farage and the pilot had been killed. "One minute the plane was
in the air, the next it was a cloud of dust. It simply nose-dived without any
warning. I could see Nigel's leg sticking out, and feared he was dead," he said.
"Then I heard him moaning 'Get me out, get me out' ... He said to his rescuers:
'I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared'."

The pilot of the plane was taken for treatment at a trauma unit in Coventry with
back and leg injuries.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage downfall;
OAP road rage and death penalty for Mumbai terrorist ; TOP STORIES FROM THE UK

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 158 words


Farage downfall Election The UK Independence party (UKIP) candidate Nigel Farage
was hurt in a plane crash, pictured above, during an election day stunt. The
former UKIP leader was kept in hospital after suffering head injuries in the
accident at an airfield in Northamptonshire.

Farage, 46, was the passenger in a light aircraft towing a 15ft "Vote for your
country - Vote UKIP" banner when it plunged 30ft to the ground after the banner
got snagged on the tailplane.

Neil Hall, a photographer who was asked to capture the publicity stunt on
camera, said he feared that both Farage and the pilot had been killed. "It
simply nose-dived without any warning. I could see Nigel's leg sticking out, and
feared he was dead," he said. "Then I heard him moaning 'Get me out, get me out'
... He said to his rescuers: 'I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared'."

The pilot of the plane was taken for treatment at a trauma unit in Coventry with
back and leg injuries.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Majority missed by a whisker;
Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher explain how just 16,000 more votes in key
seats could have ushered David Cameron into No 10

BYLINE: Colin Rallings; Michael Thrasher

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 2370 words


David Cameron may have failed to "seal the deal" with the British electorate on
Thursday, but he did lead the Tories to their most significant electoral advance
since at least 1979.

The party fell short of the 116 gains and 6% swing needed for outright victory,
but the Labour-to-Tory swing of 5% was the largest since Margaret Thatcher's
first victory more than 30 years ago and the party gained more seats than at any
election since 1931.

Unlike in 2001 or 2005, there was a more direct exchange of votes between Labour
and the Tories, with the Tories making more than 80 gains at Labour's expense.

Just 16,000 extra votes for the Tories distributed in the 19 constituencies in
which the party came closest to winning would have spared us a weekend of
coalition negotiations and speculation.

All this must be put in context. Although the increase in turnout from 61% to
65% allows the Tories to claim that even as a minority party they attracted a
greater proportion of the total electorate (24%) than the majority Labour
government in 2005 (22%), the support of fewer than one in four of those
eligible to vote is a thin mandate.

Yet again the Labour vote fell by more than the Tory vote rose and their
combined share fell from 69% in 2005 to 67% - an all-time low and powerful
evidence that the electorate now sees beyond just two parties.

The Tories' own votes and share were no better than at the October 1974 election
which they lost. Labour's near 30% did not quite plumb the depths of 1983, when
under Michael Foot they polled just 28%, but that apart it was their worst
election result since the 1920s. Hardly a triumph for either party.

The Liberal Democrats flattered in the polls only to deceive at the ballot box,
although their overall vote did increase on 2005.

The outcome has, of course, thrown the spotlight onto the electoral system.
Despite a 10-point rise in Lib Dem support after the first televised leaders'
debate, the party was still projected to finish third in seats. The result shows
that it is Labour which continues to benefit mostly from a "biased" electoral
system, winning inner city seats with relatively small electorates and
constituencies with lower turnouts.

If the vote shares at the election had been reversed, with Labour beating the
Tories by 36% to 29%, Gordon Brown would be back in Downing Street with a
majority of 64.

In the constituencies where Labour captured between 30% and 40% of the total
vote, it won the seat in 39% of cases. By contrast, the Tories won in just 26%
of constituencies where their vote was in this range.

The big losers continue to be the Lib Dems, who accumulate "wasted votes" across
the country. This bias, almost all of which stems from a failure to convert
support into seats, cost them 75 seats on Thursday. In places where they polled
30%-40% of the votes, they won only one in eight seats.

The story of the election can be distilled into two types of campaign and three
battlegrounds.

The national campaign was dominated by the televised debates and voter reaction
to them as monitored in the polls - the "air war".

The Lib Dem surge, based on Nick Clegg's performance in the first debate, had
begun to wane before polling day, but the initial scepticism about the exit poll
(which correctly forecast the Lib Dem fall in seats) showed how the narrative
had become divorced from reality. There is a world of difference between finding
a leader attractive and supporting his party's policies or candidates.

Actual votes, however, are cast in constituencies where the effective
competition is usually between just two parties - the "ground war". The swing in
the Labour-Tory marginals was only a little higher than the overall average,
suggesting that the impact of Lord Ashcroft's money in supporting the
Conservatives' efforts there might have been exaggerated.

The Tories won most of their easier targets, but uniform swing did come into
play with gains dying out the closer they got to the pivotal 6% swing marker.
Their failure to gain either Bolton North East or Bolton West was probably a
sign that an overall majority was unlikely.

The Lib Dems lost ground in marginals where they were up against the
Conservatives, but the overall swing to the Tories was just 1% - far below the
level Cameron needed. Defending previously gained territory has always been a
Lib Dem strength and Tory hearts will have sunk as easy target after easy target
such as Somerton and Frome, Eastleigh and Taunton Deane failed to fall.

In the Labour-Lib Dem battleground there was little sign of Tories voting
tactically to oust Labour. The Lib Dems failed to regain Rochdale which Paul
Rowen, the sitting MP, had to win again following unfavourable boundary changes,
despite the intrusion of Gillian Duffy, aka "that bigoted woman".

The party was also hurt by several of its more winnable targets being in London
and Scotland, where it underperformed against the national average.

Attention now turns to the next election which on three previous occasions, when
the general election produced a hung parliament, came in less than 12 months.

The new electoral arithmetic makes a snap election a tempting prospect for
Cameron, who could make substantial gains on swings far smaller than that
achieved last week even without implementing the manifesto pledge to reduce the
size of the House of Commons.

Winning the extra 19 seats to secure an overall majority would require only a
1.8% swing with Newcastle-under-Lyme the new key target constituency.

To secure a majority of 20 seats over all other parties the Tories need a swing
of just 2.5% against the party defending each seat. The unlucky Labour incumbent
in the Tories' sights would be Tooting's Sadiq Khan, who had a narrow escape
this time.

A more effective working majority would be 50 seats, which would require a
relatively modest swing of 3.3% and would entail winning back Eastbourne from
the Lib Dems. A swing of 5% would give a landslide and a majority of 118.

Even if the Tories became unpopular in office, an early election is not
necessarily appealing for Labour. It now needs an additional 68 seats for an
overall majority but that requires a swing of 6%, the second largest since the
war.

Tory strength remains concentrated in England. The party did make five gains in
Wales to record its best performance since 1987, but it is Labour which
continues to benefit from the operation of the electoral system there. Despite
posting its lowest share of the vote (36%) so far, Labour won two-thirds of all
the seats.

Elsewhere in the union, however, things are parlous for the Tories. In Scotland,
where not a single seat changed hands compared with the 2005 general election,
they remain the fourth party with just one MP.

Labour, on the other hand, appeared to benefit from its status as the opposition
in the Scottish parliament, posting an increase in vote share and winning back
both the seats it had lost in by-elections. The SNP leapfrogged the Lib Dems to
claim second place in votes.

Scotland and Wales together now account for more than a quarter of all Labour
MPs: a fact that is bound to raise more questions about the legitimacy of their
role in voting on issues that affect England but not their own constituents.

The Tory attempt to establish a foothold in Northern Ireland through an alliance
with the Ulster Unionists was a dismal failure. The UCU lost further ground
compared with 2005 and Sylvia Hermon easily retained North Down standing as an
independent. The Alliance party elected its first MP, benefiting from electoral
hostility to Peter Robinson, the Democratic Unionist party leader, in the almost
exclusively Protestant Belfast East.

Throughout Britain, though, the smaller parties made far fewer advances than had
been expected. All three sitting independent MPs were defeated and only Caroline
Lucas, the Green party leader, in Brighton Pavilion broke the established
monopoly. Her victory was anticipated but the Greens in general polled no more
votes than in 2005, despite fighting more than 150 additional seats.

UKIP won nearly a million votes but Nigel Farage could finish only a distant
third behind John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, in Buckingham. The much vaunted
challenge by Nick Griffin, of the BNP, to Labour's Margaret Hodge was a failure
in Barking, as was the attempt by the Respect party's George Galloway to get
re-elected in Poplar and Limehouse. Votes cast for UKIP candidates may have cost
the Tories seats in places such as Bolton West and Solihull. If just half those
who voted UKIP in the 19 seats that the Tories most narrowly missed had voted
for Cameron instead, he would have had a majority of two.

London stays red

The one region in England where Labour can take some comfort from its
performance is London, where it suffered a swing to the Tories of just 2.5% and
lost only a net six seats.

Partly, this can be explained by the fact that in 2005 it had done especially
badly in the capital. This time, with the Iraq war a less potent issue, there is
evidence that the Labour vote held almost steady in areas with a high ethnic
minority population.

This could explain the Tory failure to win easy targets such as Westminster
North and Hammersmith, despite the party fielding a black candidate there.

Similarly, the Lib Dems failed to win Islington South & Finsbury, which most
commentators had assumed was a shoo-in for the party.

In outer London, however, voting was much more in line with the national
pattern.

Day of reckoning for the expenses sinners

The expenses scandal took fewer scalps than might have been expected, write
Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher. With most of the serious offenders standing
down, it is hard always to disentangle the impact of media coverage from local
issues and discontents.

Indeed in an election in which Labour's vote fell most heavily in safe Tory
seats, the successors of expenses sinners were often rewarded. The Tory share in
Gosport, Hampshire, home to Sir Peter Viggers's duck house, was up 7%. In
Totnes, Devon, formerly represented by Anthony Steen ("voters are just jealous
of my very, very large house") the Tory majority also increased after Steen was
replaced in an open primary. David Heathcoat-Amory, who caused controversy with
claims for horse manure, was defeated in Wells, Somerset, by the Liberal
Democrats, but as a result of tactical voting by Labour supporters rather than
desertions by his own side.

The backlash appeared worse for Labour whose core support might have resented
the implied gulf between their own and the lifestyle of their MPs. Hazel Blears
and Jacqui Smith, inset, the former cabinet ministers, both suffered swings of
more than 9% - enough to depose Smith, but not Blears.

It is likely that local disgust with the "flipping" of her second home
designation by Kitty Ussher contributed to the loss of Burnley to the Lib Dems,
and Geoff Hoon's late replacement in Ashfield, Nottinghamshire, survived by
fewer than 200 votes. In both cases though, part of the problem for potential
Labour voters might have been resentment about having candidates foisted on
them.

Austin Mitchell, the veteran Labour MP for Grimsby, who has been rather cavalier
in defence of his own claims, also suffered a well above average (10.5%) swing
against him. In Luton South, however, home to Margaret Moran - perhaps the most
notorious of the Labour cases - the swing against Labour was less than 5% and
Esther Rantzen's clean-up politics campaign resulted only in a lost deposit.

Three English Lib Dem MPs who apologised to the House for "serious misjudgement"
on expense claims were defeated. Paul Holmes in Chesterfield was the victim of a
rare swing to Labour in a seat once held by Tony Benn. Sandra Gidley lost the
marginal Romsey and Southampton North, and Richard Younger-Ross lost Newton
Abbot, Devon, on a near 6% swing to the Tories.

'' CAMERON COULD MAKE EASY GAINS IN A SNAP ELECTION

Changing vote share Both main parties have seen their share decline Largest
decrease Largest increase % of vote Seats 16.7 42.0 18.9 1 41 11 % of vote Seats
26.1 36.2 20.1 8 26 3 % of vote Seats 25.0 25.5 16.5 8 5 3 Key figures from the
2010 election Who won what from whom Labour had staggeringly few gains The
biggest changes in seats 2010 had one of largest post-war turnarounds Regional
breakdown Britain has now become a politically fractured nation Change in vote
share Highest vote share for the winning MP Lowest vote share for the winning MP
Highest and lowest turnouts England Scotland Wales N Ireland 50 40 30 20 10 0
1979 1945 83 87 92 97 2001 10 05 % of vote Conservatives won Labour won -217
+236 -9 87 Labour seats O Con Others 1 Other seat Lib Dems won 1 Lib Dem 12 Lib
Dem 2 Other 5 labour 3 Con 1997 -171 +147 +26 2010 +97 -91 -5 1950 +86 -78 -3 %
of vote Seats 39.6 28.1 24.2 297 191 43 Conservative Labour Lib Dem DUP Sinn
Fein SDLP 62.8% 72.0% 62.0% Richmond Liverpool Walton Orkney & Shetland 84.5%
44.1% Warwick & Leamington Manchester Central 34.1% 31.9% 29.4% Northampton
North Oldham East & Saddleworth Norwich South Westmorland & Lonsdale Barnsley
East Orpington Hartlepool +16.7 +20.1 +25.0 -8.1 -23.9 -15.9 Blaenau Gwent
Redcar

Party Seats Gain Loss Net Votes % +/-% Conservative 306 100 3 +97 10,706,647
36.1 +3.8 Labour 258 3 94 -91 8,604,358 29.0 -6.2 Liberal Democrat 57 8 13 -5
6,827,938 23.0 +1.0 Democratic Unionist party 8 0 1 -1 168,216 0.6 -0.3 Scottish
National party 6 0 0 0 491,386 1.7 +0.1 Sinn Fein 5 0 0 0 171,942 0.6 -0.1 Plaid
Cymru 3 1 0 +1 165,394 0.6 -0.1 Social Democratic and Labour party 3 0 0 0
110,970 0.4 -0.1 Green 1 1 0 +1 285,616 1.0 -0.1 Alliance party 1 1 0 +1 42,762
0.1 +0.0 UK Independence party 0 0 0 0 917,832 3.1 +0.9 British National party 0
0 0 0 563,743 1.9 +1.2 Ulster Conservatives and Unionists - New Force 0 0 1 -1
102,361 0.3 -0.1 English Democrats 0 0 0 0 64,826 0.2 +0.2 Respect-Unity
Coalition 0 0 1 -1 33,251 0.1 -0.1 Traditional Unionist Voice 0 0 0 0 26,300 0.1
Christian party 0 0 0 0 18,623 0.1 Independent Community and Health Concern 0 0
1 -1 16,150 0.1 +0.0 Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition 0 0 0 0 12,275 0.0
Scottish Socialist party 0 0 0 0 3,157 0.0 -0.1 Others 1 1 1 0 319,891 1.1 0.0
After 649 of 650 seats declare Turnout 29,653,638 65.1 4.0

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Never mind the ballots

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 659 words


GOOD CAMPAIGN TELEVISION Viewers braced themselves for the worst, but Britain's
first live television debate electrified the campaign. Many voters apparently
discovered for the first time that there was a party called the Liberal
Democrats, led by a nice young man called Nicholas. And let's not forget it was
a Sky microphone that bought us the excitement of Gordon Brown, Gillian Duffy
and Bigotgate. Even the election night coverage was the most exciting for years
(apart from the embarrassment of the BBC's celeb-packed floating party - Z-list
dunderheads drinking wine at your expense).

GREEN PARTY Uniquely in recent years, almost everybody was disappointed by the
election results. The Tories failed to gain an overall majority, the Lib Dems
failed to make the gains predicted, and Labour just failed. Only the Green party
had something to celebrate when Caroline Lucas became Britain's first Green MP.

EURFYL ap GWILYM The economic adviser to Plaid Cymru became a bit of a YouTube
hit after giving Jeremy Paxman a taste of his own medicine on Newsnight. Didn't
do his party much good, though. Plaid Cymru gained just one seat.

MIRIAM CLEGG The results didn't go quite as well as her husband might have
hoped, but at least Mrs Clegg played a blinder. She won admiration from
independent career women by saying that she wouldn't campaign full-time because
she couldn't afford five weeks off work. She was at Nick's side when it
mattered, though. Just one slight letdown - she didn't vote for him. As a
Spanish citizen, she's not on the register.

BAD CAMPAIGN WOMEN Never has an election seemed quite so male. The most
prominent women were the leaders' wives, sent out - in the case of Miriam Clegg
and Samantha Cameron - to remind voters that their husbands were ordinary family
men, or - in the case of Sarah Brown - to make sure that Gordon didn't get into
trouble. When Gordon was allowed out on his own, he managed to insult the only
other prominent woman in the campaign, Gillian Duffy of Rochdale.

THE INTERNET This was supposed to be the internet election, but even political
blogging pioneer Iain Dale described the cyber campaign as "an irrelevance".
Candidates were too frightened of saying anything controversial for their blogs
to make an impact. Twitter made an impact. Labour's Stuart MacLennan was sacked
as a candidate after making jokes about slavery and referring to voters as
"chavs".

LEMBIT OPIK Provided the Portillo moment of election night 2010. And oddly, for
a man who has warned us to look out for unexpected impacts from outer space, he
failed to see this one coming. Lembit lost his Montgomeryshire seat to the
Tories on a swing of more than 13%. You could still see the shock in his eyes as
Jeremy Paxman asked whether he blamed his Cheeky Girl image.

ESTHER RANTZEN The TV presenter thought her high profile would sweep her to
victory in Luton South. In the event, she came fourth with 1,872 votes, about
the same sort of support you might expect as a UKIP candidate.

Still, that's life.

CHARLES CLARKE Lost his Norwich South seat to the Lib Dems. A spokesman for
Gordon Brown said: "Ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha ha."

RETURNING OFFICERS How can we send election observers to the Third World when we
can't even make sure everybody gets a vote here? There were queues at the
polling stations and scandalous scenes as voters were shut out at 10pm sharp. A
spokesman for council chief executives said the system was "Victorian". The
system has seemed to cope until now, though how long before Zimbabwe offers
observers to monitor our polls? UKIP Had such a bad campaign you almost want to
offer them a consolation seat. Lord Pearson, the party leader, urged voters to
back candidates from other parties, and admitted that he had forgotten details
from his manifesto. Then their great hope, Nigel Farage, was nearly killed in an
air crash before failing to unseat John Bercow. Never mind, chaps, the only way
is up.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gordon Brown appears to be seeking new openings in the Sunday Times
appointments section in this lookalike picture by Alison Jackson, whose
speciality is creating fake paparazzi-style photographs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 9, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

THE ODD COUPLES;
An elaborate game of courtship is taking place and the three leaders try to get
their parties to jump into bed with one another. Jonathan Oliver, Isabel
Oakeshott and Richard Woods report Cameron spoke only when he had secured 305
seats Lib Dems are torn two ways Traditional Tories wary Looser deal may be
struck

BYLINE: Jonathan Oliver; Isabel Oakeshott; Richard Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15,17,18,20,22

LENGTH: 4555 words


In full pageantry, Britain's establishment gathered at the Cenotaph in Whitehall
yesterday and revealed a nation caught in no-man's-land.

Resplendent in military uniform, Prince Charles laid a wreath to commemorate the
65th anniversary of Victory in Europe during the second world war. Then three
men in dark suits and dark ties stepped forward in a line and laid their wreaths
together.

Nick Clegg, David Cameron and Gordon Brown stood shoulder to shoulder - none was
given preference as the acknowledged political leader of the country. After an
election delivering the first hung parliament for decades, Brown was prime
minister in name only.

The three shifted awkwardly, staring straight ahead, unsure who was friend and
foe. For away from the remembrance service, a battle was being fought, and is
still being fought, for the premiership and the future shape of Britain's
political landscape.

On Friday, the Conservatives opened talks with the Lib Dems over a possible
coalition or other form of support. According to a senior Tory source, Cameron
told colleagues: "We are determined to avoid another five years of opposition."

The party has presented the Lib Dems with "a spectrum" of deals, including seats
in cabinet, though no specific portfolios have been discussed. Cameron's
preference, insiders say, is for a coalition or other formal deal that would
usher in a stable government able to last four years. The omens, though, are
mixed. As one leading Tory said: "I've a hunch they [the Lib Dems] won't go for
it".

Though Clegg appeared demoralised after his party's failure to capture more
seats, yesterday he restated his four broad aims in trying to strike a deal.

"They are there on the face of our manifesto," he said. "Firstly, fair tax
reform; secondly, a new approach in education to provide the fair start that all
children deserve in school; thirdly, a new approach to the economy so we can
build a new economy from the rubble of the old; and fourthly, fundamental reform
of our political system."

While the Conservatives are offering compromises on the first three, the last
remains a huge hurdle, in more ways than one.

Outside the Smith Square building where the Lib Dems were holding talks,
campaigners paraded with posters that read: Be brave, demand PR. Others chanted
"fair votes now". Simon Hughes, a leading Lib Dem, said "There has to be for us
a fundamental commitment to reform of the political system, and that has to be
more than a conversation."

But the Tory shadow minister Liam Fox warned Clegg not to "hold the country to
ransom" over demands for electoral reform. And old-school Conservatives, fearful
that proportional representation (PR) would cast the Tories into the wilderness,
urged Cameron to play tough and go it alone.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, the Tory grandee, claimed that electoral reform was
something "David Cameron couldn't deliver even if he wanted to".

The mood remained febrile. Rumours circulated that Clegg, who holds the balance
of power in the new House of Commons, had also had an "angry" conversation with
Brown. He had told Brown to quit, claimed some reports, and the prime minister
had riposted with a "diatribe laced with threats".

Denials swiftly followed. The conversation had been "perfectly amicable",
claimed the Lib Dems and Downing Street. All options were still on the table,
they implied, everything was still to play for.

Yesterday the LibDems announced that their negotiating team would meet their
Conservative counterparts for further discussions at 11am today at the Cabinet
Office. David Laws, a Lib Dem negotiator, said that his party's MPs endorsed
Clegg's approach and desire for stability. He said the Lib Dems would act in the
national interest.

Other sources suggested no deal was likely "before Monday", and Cameron is not
due to meet Tory MPs until 6pm tomorrow.

Amid the uncertainty Brown retreated to Downing Street after the Cenotaph
ceremony. Aides said he spoke to Herman van Rompuy, the EU president, and
President Nicolas Sarkozy of France. Brown's attention, professed one, "was on
the euro" and other affairs of state.

Other sources said he spent much of his time plotting overtures to the Lib Dems
with advisers, including Lord Mandelson, Lord Adonis and Harriet Harman. He also
spoke to his old friend Sir Menzies Campbell, the former leader of the Lib Dems,
before flying to Scotland for the night.

If one thing is clear, however, it is that the people of Britain do not want
Brown in No10. Quite apart from Labour's poor 29% share of the election vote, a
YouGov/Sunday Times poll this weekend shows that 62% of people think Brown
should not remain as prime minister.

Cameron is the man with most seats and votes, though Clegg is the most popular
leader.

By 40% to 37% people think Clegg should look to form a coalition with the
Conservatives, rather than Labour.

The problem is that if he does that, a majority of 52% believe the priority
should be electoral reform. Will that be the Lib Dem price? Can the Tories
concoct a compromise? And what will happen to Labour?

As the three men stood at the Cenotaph yesterday, a bugle sounded. The last
post, perhaps, for the old two-party system. Or a call to Cameron for minority
government?

THE drama began on Thursday night as staff and volunteers in the Conservative
campaign gathered on the second floor of Millbank Tower, overlooking the Thames.
As voting drew to a close, the atmosphere was electric. Lord Ashcroft's private
polling suggested the party was on course to win more than 326 seats, the
minimum required for an overall majority.

Some were expecting a majority of between 20 and 30 seats. After more than a
decade in the wilderness, senior party figures were quietly confident they would
seize power with a few hours. One of Cameron's top aides, some sources claimed,
had already called Jeremy Heywood, the Downing Street permanent secretary, to
brief him on who would be the new Tory ministers.

On the other hand, Cameron had been cautious in his office sweepstake,
predicting he would win only 304 seats.

Waiters dished out hot dogs, burgers and beer, but the troops were interested
only in the huge plasma screen TV high on the wall, where the first exit poll
forecasts were about to appear.

Big Ben struck 10 and the room gasped, stunned by the figures flashing up: 307
seats for the Tories; 255 for Labour, and just 59 for the Lib Dems.

The Tory team couldn't believe it. The pollsters must have got it wrong, they
muttered.

After all, how could Clegg have done so badly after such a sensational campaign?
Two minutes after the poll was announced, Iain Dale, the former Tory candidate,
blogged: "Don't panic chaps and chapesses. My view is that by 4am this poll will
have been shown to be wrong. It seems too incredible that the Lib Dems are only
predicted to get 59 seats. I'll run naked down Whitehall if that turns out to be
true."

Early results seemed to bear out suspicion that the exit poll was rogue, but
gradually, as a series of target seats were lost and Cameron's preferred
A-listers failed to win, it became apparent that it was correct.

The party's fundraisers and donors, who had been invited to the bash, were
looking increasingly pale.

"Holy shit. Does this mean we have to raise another £18m?" one groaned,
speculating that a hung parliament would mean another general election soon.

When Cameron arrived from his Witney constituency at about 5am, he swept in with
his inner circle: his strategist Steve Hilton, his communications director Andy
Coulson, his chief of staff Ed Llewellyn, and his deputy chief of staff Kate
Fall. They were followed by George Osborne and his chief economic adviser, Matt
Hancock, newly elected to the safe seat of West Suffolk.

It was a grand entrance, but they looked dazed, said one of those at the party.
"I wouldn't say they looked unhappy, but they seemed sort of bewildered," said
the source. "They all looked totally knackered.

They knew at this stage that it was going to be a hung parliament and they were
facing another long push, right through until the weekend."

A hush fell as Cameron began to speak, thanking staff for all their hard work.
"It looks like we haven't quite made it," he said. "There's still a lot of work
to do." As he spoke, a picture of Ashcroft giving a rare interview on the events
of the night flashed up on the TV screen.

"David was standing right underneath the big plasma TV when Ashcroft appeared.
It was a really weird moment," the strategist said.

The scene was even weirder over at the Labour HQ in Victoria Street. Staff
tucking into Peroni beer and pizzas had been expecting Labour to be annihilated.

"We were braced for the awful prospect of coming third after the Lib Dems, and
suddenly it looked like it might not be such a disaster after all," said one
Labour insider. "There was this sense of disbelief. We didn't think it could be
right. The Tories had a hell of a lot more money than us, and had done a lot of
private polling. They'd been telling people their polling showed they were going
to be fine. It was hard to know what to think."

As the evening wore on, the Labour team began to recover their spirits. There
were whoops of joy as Labour MPs who had been expected to lose their seats clung
on; such was the relief, some guests sniggered when the unattractive Charles
Clarke, Brown's most outspoken critic within the party, lost his Norwich South
seat.

As dawn broke, Brown and his wife, Sarah, arrived to thank staff. "We are the
only force for fairness. You all embody the values we stand for," the prime
minister intoned. "The results seems to suggest the people have rejected the
superficial Cameron project."

Those who were there say he appeared realistic about Labour's slim hopes of
forming a government, acknowledging that it was unclear how events would unfold.
But he emphasised the party could be proud of what it had achieved, having
forestalled a Tory landslide.

As Tories and Labour began to accept that a hung parliament was inevitable, the
man and party that would be its pivot were in shock. After Clegg's surge in
popularity, the Lib Dems had hoped for sizable gains, perhaps seizing 70, 80,
maybe 90 seats.

Now they were on course to end up with fewer seats than they previously had. At
Lib Dem HQ in Cowley Street, no one touched the champagne.

WHEN Clegg arrived by train in London from his Sheffield Hallam constituency, he
looked deflated. The Lib Dems' losses had left his stature as kingmaker in a
hung parliament much reduced. At 10.30am he admitted the obvious: "Last night
was a disappointment ... we have returned to parliament with fewer MPs than
before ... now we are in a very fluid political situation."

The convention in such circumstances is for the sitting prime minister to be
given first opportunity to attempt to form a government by coalition or other
agreement. And Lord Adonis, the Labour minister and former SDP member, had
already rung the Lib Dems offering an olive branch.

Instead, Clegg stuck to the principle he had set out weeks beforehand. He wasn't
going to let Brown simply "squat" in No 10 after a hefty defeat. Brown had no
mandate. Clegg announced: "It seems this morning that it's the Conservative
party that has more votes and more seats, though not an absolute majority, and
that is why I think it is now for the Conservative party to prove that it is
capable of seeking to govern in the national interest."

He went on to reiterate that his priority would be campaign for "real reforms
that we need to fix our broken political system" - Lib Dem code for the PR it
has long sought. As he left, someone from the media melee called out, asking
whether he was off to talk to Cameron. Clegg replied tersely: "I'm planning to
eat my apple."

News began to circulate that Cameron would make a statement in the early
afternoon. Boris Johnson, the Tory mayor of London, weighed in, saying it would
be "absolutely insane" if the Tories were not in government, having won most
seats and votes. He said he was looking forward to a "Meccanotype solution" to
the hung parliament.

Inside Downing Street, Brown and his inner circle watched Clegg's statement and
knew they had to react fast. Mandelson urged Brown to get in ahead of Cameron
with a "father-of-the-nation-style speech". Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair's spin
doctor, texted friends, saying, "I'm back in myold office!" They began crafting
a speech for Brown.

Ed Balls, who had hurried down from his constituency in West Yorkshire, took a
different view. He was strongly opposed to the dreams being floated by Mandelson
of a progressive alliance between Labour and the Lib Dems .

Balls argued that PR would spell the end of Labour and urged Brown not to make
any offers that he would later regret. It would be a betrayal, Balls said,when
the party could go into opposition with its head held high.

The prime minister, who knew he would be unable to remain leader if Labour lost
power, had other ideas and Balls was won round. Just after 1.30pm Brown emerged
through the door of No 10 and strode to a lectern. A cry rang out from the
crowd: "Leave now."

Brown carried on unperturbed. He had a "constitutional duty to seek to resolve
the situation for the good of the country", he claimed. He respected Clegg's
decision to talk to Cameron; they could take as "much time as they feel
necessary".

Having made his statesman pitch, he got down and dirty. If Clegg would talk to
Labour, he said, they could discuss "far-reaching political reforms including
changes to the voting system... the electorate has sent us a very strong message
that must be heard... a fairer voting system is essential".

The message was unmistakable: help me survive, Nick, and I'll give you want you
want. In Westminster and City offices, in homes across the land, people were
gathered round television screens wondering where the game of highstakes poker
was leading. Websites were staggering under the weight of traffic. Was Cameron
on his way to No 10 or not? Could Brown somehow remain prime minister?

Even by Brown's brazen standards, his sudden change of tack on electoral reform
shocked many Labour MPs. At his home in Newcastle, Nick Brown, Labour's chief
whip, began to receive a flood of calls from angry MPs who feared what they saw
as a "Mandelsonian plot" to destroy old Labour.

In the Tory camp, Osborne, the would-be chancellor and Tory campaign architect,
had advised Cameron to hold back his statement until the Tories reached 305
seats, waiting until they could move from a position of as much strength as
possible .

At 2.30pm Cameron played his opening hand. "Britain needs strong, stable,
decisive government and it is in the national interest that we get that on a
secure basis," he said, addressing the media in the St Stephen's club in
Westminster.

"Britain voted for change... for a new politics. It did not vote for party
political bickering, grandstanding and pointscoring...Wemust show leadership. We
must sort things out, as quickly as possible, for the good of the country."

Having made, like Brown, his bid for statesmanship, he too turned to wooing
Clegg. Tories and Lib Dems had much in common on education, the low-carbon
economy, and tax reduction, he said. His offer to work with the Lib Dems was,
said Cameron, "big, open and comprehensive".

The big and open question, however, concerned the voting reform so keenly
desired by the Lib Dems and so feared by the Tories. Cameron merely said: "The
Liberal Democrats have their ideas, we have our ideas."

The best he offered was "an all-party committee of inquiry on political and
electoral reform". Though superficially it sounded attractive, the Lib Dems'
forefathers had been here in the 1970s and 1990s, when governments looking for
their support agreed to commissions to look into the possibilities of PR. They
never came to anything. As Lord Oakeshott, the Lib Dem peer, put it: "We don't
need an inquiry to prove that winning one-eighth of the seats with one-third of
the votes is daylight robbery."

Yet senior Tories seemed dead set against reform. One senior member of the
shadow cabinet said: "We have offered the Lib Dems pretty much everything they
could realistically hope for on tax and public services. We are even ready to
invite them into government. The offer on PR is a fig leaf. If they want make it
a deal-breaker, let them. The public will just be bemused at their hissy fits."

At stake was who would run the country-and it was Clegg's turn to call or raise.

ON Friday afternoon, Clegg spoke to Cameron on the telephone, agreeing to
explore how they could co-operate. That evening two teams of negotiators sat
down together to discuss the outline of an agreement. On the Tory side were
Osborne, William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, Oliver Letwin, the affable
policy chief, and Llewellyn.

The Lib Dem team consisted of Danny Alexander, Clegg's chief of staff, Chris
Huhne, the home affairs spokesman, Laws, the schools spokesman, and Andrew
Stunell, the chief whip.

The Lib Dems were torn both ways. Clegg's instinct is to side with the Tories,
the party that clearly fared best. But under the Lib Dem constitution any
"substantial proposal that could affect the party's independence of political
action" has to be discussed with all the party's MPs and its "federal
executive".

Depending on how they react, any deal might also have to be put to a vote of
party members.

The omens were decidedly mixed. Soon after talks with the Tories began, many Lib
Dem tweeters began marking t h e i r p o s t s "@dontdoitnick".

Libdemvoice, a popular forum for party activists, carried the headline "Cameron
offers... er, not very much really".

One commenter wrote: "I cannot believe Clegg will take this Tory offer at face
value. On electoral reform there is no way Cameron will concede even the
possibility of PR." Another wrote: "We cannot shore up a Conservative government
when this country has shown a clear preference for progressive parties."

Other contributors were aghast that, having voted for the Lib Dems specifically
to keep the Tories out, Clegg might enable the opposite to happen.

John Prescott, the former deputy prime minister, mocked the potential coalition
with suitably mangled English. Beware the "Libservatives or Condemocrats" he
warned.

However, others were equally appalled at the thought that Clegg might change
tack to do a deal with Labour. One commenter wrote: "If you want a Lib Dem party
that looks like it is open to a nice fat political bribe, then back Labour. It
would be a huge betrayal of the British people."

Another wrote: "If Nick Clegg supports Labour then he is as morally bankrupt as
Gordon Brown with his 'change of mind' on political reform."

Behind the partisan passions, lay the cold, hard numbers of parliamentary seats.
All sides agreed the country needed stable government. Which alliance could
deliver it? A Labour-Lib Dem coalition would command 315 seats - still 11 short
of an overall majority.

The Lib Dem failure to make advances was suddenly proving crucial. Any pact with
Labour would be vulnerable to the whims of other minor parties.

Clegg was also well aware that if such a pact ended in disarray, the Lib Dems
would be punished at the next election.

By contrast, a deal with the Tories would create a bloc with 363 seats - a
commanding overall majority able to ensure stability.

The early signs last night were that there was some support for the Tory deal
142 Total number of women MPs 48 Number of Tory women MPs 27MPs from ethnic
minorities, up from 14 in 2005 1 Number of Green party MPs among the Lib Dems
who had gathered in Westminster. One source said that the party had been
impressed at how "openminded" the Conservative delegation had been in
negotiations.

But many traditional Tories are wary of Cameron conceding too much. Norman
Tebbit, pillar of the Thatcherite old school, urged Cameron to put any deal to a
vote of approval by Tory party members.

If "big, open and comprehensive" co-operation proves impossible to agree, a
third way beckons. Cameron could pursue a minority government with limited Lib
Dem support only on key issues. That is an option preferred by 19% in today's
YouGov poll. In such a scenario a second election would almost certainly follow
before long.

THOUGH Labour performed better than expected, Brown's days as prime minister
still seem numbered, despite his efforts to loiter. Even if Clegg turned to
Labour, he seems unwilling to tolerate Brown for long.

Mandelson reflected the mood saying: "I'm not ruling out or ruling in anything".

Potential successors as Labour leader are already jockeying for influence. David
Miliband, the foreign secretary, starts as favourite. On Friday he was sending
personal text messages of congratulation to dozens of newly elected MPs and
members whose seats had been in jeopardy.

Alan Johnson, the home secretary once seen as a leadership contender, is likely
to endorse Miliband, as will Mandelson.

The other main contender is likely to be Balls, who is positioning himself as
the "real Labour" candidate. During the campaign Balls had irritated cabinet
colleagues by expressing scepticism about the idea of a Lib-Lab coalition.
However, his tribal Labour position is popular with the party's rank and file.

"Ed's view, unlike the defeatist tendency, is that the party isn't broke," said
one ally. "There is no reason why we can't rebuild and come back to power
after."

The wild card in any leadership contest is Harriet Harman, the deputy leader.
Although pilloried in the tabloid press as "Hattie Harperson", she is immensely
popular within the party. Despite previously insisting she has no interest in
becoming leader, she may not be able to resist the demands of her admirers to
put her name forward .

For the Tories, the recriminations over why they did not achieve an overall
majority are just beginning, despite the fact that they may soon end up in
power.

Senior party sources claim that Andy Coulson, the director of communications and
former editor of the News of the World, is attempting to pin the blame on Steve
Hilton, Cameron's shaven-headed, trainer-wearing policy guru. Hilton is said to
have designed some of the much-mocked early poster campaigns.

Hilton, who is reportedly paid a salary of £276,000, would be a popular scalp
among Tory MPs, who resented his regular round-robin emails littered with
Californian psychobabble.

If Cameron has to offer a blood sacrifice to the rank and file, Hilton might be
the preferred victim rather than Osborne, the real architect of the campaign.

The most pressing problem, however, remains a hung parliament that is unlike any
before. The share of the vote taken by both Conservatives or Labour has been
falling, and minor parties are on the rise. UKIP, which won 900,000 votes,
appears to have deprived the Tories of 10 seats. Even the BNP, which often takes
support from Labour, polled 500,000 votes.

The bond markets that fund Britain's burgeoning debts will not tolerate
uncertainty for too long. Many involved in the negotiations will view their
attitude when they open for business on Monday morning with trepidation.

The momentum towards political and electoral realignments and reform is
gathering. This weekend the shape of Britain's future politics remains
uncertain. If no formal Tory-Lib Dem deal emerges, Cameron believes a looser
"supply and confidence" arrangement, in which the Lib Dems would offer limited
support, would not last long. A second election would follow soon.

As wags observed in the wake of the most perfectly hung election for decades:
the people have spoken... but what did they say?

IN THIS SECTION

Tory-Lib Dem pact is best for Britain EDITORIAL, P28

Cameron's plan B for Asda election DOMINIC LAWSON, P28

Scots keep status quo but can't stop change JENNY HJUL, P28

Murphy's Big Lie is still working? JOAN McALPINE, P29

IN BUSINESS

Leaderless Britain stokes crash fears BUSINESS, P1

IN MONEY

How to profit from political chaos MONEY, P3-5

The voting systems Clegg and Brown might discuss

ALTERNATIVE VOTE System preferred by Labour. Constituencies would remain but
voters rank candidates 1, 2, 3, etc until they no longer care or run out of
names.

If one candidate receives more than 50% of first votes, they become the MP.

If not, the candidate with the fewest first votes is eliminated and their second
votes are distributed among the remaining candidates.

The process continues until one candidate has more than half the vote .

Where it is used Australian House of Representatives and some US mayoral
elections. Pros MPs would be supported by larger majority of their constituents;
no need to redraw constituency boundaries; maintains an MP's links to a
constituency; eliminates tactical voting; helps promote single-party government
.

Cons Does too little to help smaller parties gain greater representation; voters
cannot choose between candidates from the same party as they can in other
systems; can cause "donkey voting" with voters randomly ranking candidates
unknown to the m.

SINGLE TRANSFERABLE VOTE

Favoured by the Liberal Democrats. Constituencies are enlarged to include
several MPs. Voters rank their preferred candidates 1, 2, 3, etc from a long
list until they no longer have a preference. A quota is then set by dividing the
total votes cast by the number of MPs to be elected plus one.

If a candidate passes the quota, they become an MP and a formula is used to pass
a portion of their surplus votes to the others.

If this does not provide sufficient winners, the candidates with the fewest
votes are eliminated and their votes are distributed until all the MPs are
elected .

Where it is used Assembly, European and local elections in Northern Ireland;
Scottish local elections; Republic of Ireland and Australian Senate.

Pros Fairer ratio of seats to votes, both locally and nationally; fewer votes
wasted; choice offered between candidates of the same party; no safe seats and
therefore no more campaigns concentrated in marginals; constituents have wider
choice of MPs to help them after the election. Cons Complicated formula;
boundary changes necessary; long lists of candidates; weaker links between MPs
and constituencies; undue power is given to smaller parties as one-party
government is less likely.

ALTERNATIVE VOTE PLUS

Could be a compromise for a pact between Labour and the Lib Dems. About 500 MPs
are elected using the alternative vote system (see above).

Voters would also have a second vote with which to choose from lists of
candidates posted by parties and covering a larger area, such as a county. The
voter then chooses their favourite party or a preferred candidate on that
party's list.

Each party's share of the second vote is counted. Parties under-represented in
seats as a result of the first vote would be allocated "county" MPs to correct
the imbalance. This would create, say, an extra 100 MPs.

Where it is used Nowhere. Proposed by a commission chaired by Lord Jenkins in
1998.

Pros Fairer distribution of seats to votes; voters have greater influence on
national election; eliminates tactical voting; keeps constituency link; boosts
third party while still leaving possibility of single-party government; smooths
out regional variations.

Cons Less proportional than single transferable vote; complicated ballot papers;
boundary changes necessary; voters have little choice between candidates in a
party; creates two classes of MP.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                               May 9, 2010 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY POLITICIAN NIGEL [...]

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 60 words


UK Independence Party politician Nigel Farage yesterday said he was the
"luckiest man alive" as he left hospital after surviving an election day air
crash.

The ex-MEP, 46, got cracked ribs and a chipped spine when his light aircraft
plunged to the ground near Brackley, Northants. He failed to be elected standing
against Commons speaker John Bercow in Buckingham.

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 9, 2010 Sunday 8:15 PM GMT

Just one individual prevented an overall Tory majority: David Cameron

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 683 words


The shrill denunciations of the media on election night by Joanne Cash, the
defeated Tory candidate in the supposedly "shoo-in" seat of Westminster North,
amounted to more than the chagrin of a failed political aspirant: they expressed
the rage of thwarted Entitlement. Cash was the candidate who resigned in a huff
last February, only to be reinstated by Dave, on which occasion she famously
Tweeted: "It's official DC has changed the party!!!!!!!!" Her message to
old-guard Conservatives was: "RIP dinosaurs."

Last Thursday, in political terms, it was RIP Cash. What does it tell us about
the judgment of the man who now aspires to be Prime Minister and lead us through
the perils of international global meltdown that he should have championed such
a candidate? His failure to win a majority was largely attributable to his
imposition on constituency associations of trendy, metropolitan, A-List
candidates. Their performance was abysmal.

In the notorious Tatler magazine feature on 10 young Cameronian stars published
in September 2008, Joanne Cash was tipped as a future Housing Minister. Equally
implausibly, Shaun Bailey was regarded as a future Home Secretary, Mark Clarke
as Trade and Industry Secretary and Annunziata Rees-Mogg as Defence Secretary
(honestly, I am not making this up). All of them crashed and burned last
Thursday: of the 10 much-hyped "Tatler" thrusters, only two were elected. Of the
original 100 A-List candidates, two-thirds were defeated.

Yet that was Cameron's Praetorian Guard. With 62 of them defeated, what
credibility does the enforced selection of candidates on grounds of politically
correct Blairite "image" retain? Arguably, the Entitled Ones deprived Dave of
his majority. Another, more easily documented aspect of the Tory defeat (for
that is what it was) relates to UKIP. As is being widely advertised across the
blogosphere, in at least 21 constituencies the UKIP vote was larger than the
Labour or Liberal Democrat majority over the Tories.

Since it is universally recognised that the overwhelming majority of UKIP voters
are disgruntled Tories, that is how the Eurosceptic wing of the Conservative
core vote took its revenge on Cast-Iron Cameron. I shall not replicate the
results here, since they have already gone "viral" online; but the figures are
incontrovertible: even if you subtract 10, 20, or 30 per cent from the UKIP vote
in those seats, to allow for minor defection from other parties, the UKIP votes
still outnumber the anti-Tory majority. After the postponed election in Thirsk,
the Tories will have 307 parliamentary seats; the seats lost through UKIP would
have brought that up to 328, a clear overall majority.

Again, Dave's arrogance, his dismissal of "fruitcakes and closet racists" and
reneging on his "cast-iron" guarantee of a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty cost
him an overall majority. So, either of these two "modernising" policies -
candidates imposed centrally by "localist" Dave and the betrayal over Europe -
was sufficient by itself to deny Cameron a majority. Add to that his infantile
but costly "Green" policy, his aggressive PC posturing - voting for the forced
closure of Catholic adoption agencies, pledging to compel faith schools to teach
homosexuality in contradiction of their beliefs, etc - and his pathetic,
unquantified "cap" on immigration, reducing it to "tens of thousands" a year
plus dependants and his position was a provocation to genuine Conservatives.

Even among the votes he secured, many were cast with the single-minded purpose
of destroying Gordon Brown, not out of any attraction to Dave. Conservative
Central Office, now trendily renamed CCHQ, has traditionally housed some serious
number-crunchers. Are we to believe they are not aware that the sole obstacle to
a majority Tory government was their own leader and his gang of infatuated
Blairite opportunists? It may be that the constituency associations are now
empty of all but Cameronian androids; if that is not the case, the insurgency
that is urgently necessary to restore the Conservative Party to electability
should start from the bottom up.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

DID UKIP COST TORIES TEN SEATS?

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 702 words


THE tiny UK Independence Party helped deprive the Conservatives of at least ten
seats by fielding candidates in constituencies the Tories had a good chance of
winning.

Nationally, UKIP picked up just 3 per cent of the vote. But in a string of seats
their support was enough to stop even Eurosceptic Tory candidates winning.

In the most glaring example, the anti-EU party helped oust the fiercely
Eurosceptic David Heathcoat-Amory in Wells, Somerset.

UKIP picked up 1,711 votes as the Tory MP lost to the Liberal Democrats by 800.

UKIP also helped to prop up a number of Labour ministers, including Schools
Secretary Ed Balls, Communities Secrehung Parliament in 36 years, the Tories
performed better even than Margaret Thatcher.

They gained 100 seats - the most for 80 years - and a percentage swing exceeding
that to Mrs Thatcher in 1979. But they still fell 20 seats short of a Commons
majority.

The pound and the London stock market took a battering because of the political
turmoil, with Mr Brown - who polled just 29 per cent of the vote - refusing to
shift from Downing Street.

He insisted that the constitution gave him the right to remain Prime Minister
and made his own bid to woo the Lib Dems, offering a coalition and a referendum
on the voting system.

Westminster's most dramatic day for decades began with a deflated Mr Clegg
conceding the Tories had the right to try to form a government.

They had won more votes and more seats than any other party, the Lib Dem leader
said, and now had to prove they were 'capable of seeking to govern in the
national interest'.

An emotional Mr Cameron appeared to be fighting back tears as he said he had
fought hard for an outright win, but insisted the Tories had always been a party
that would do the best for Britain.

He said a strong Conservative government with Lib Dem backing would end the
'economic incompetence, the social breakdown, the political division and the
mistrust that are the poisonous legacy of thirteen years of Labour misrule'.

Mr Cameron refused to accept controversial Lib Dem policies on immigration, the
EU and Trident, but said they could work together on tax, education, civil
liberties and environment policy. He also promised a cross-party commission on
electoral reform.

After a 'constructive' initial phone conversation between Mr Cameron and Mr
night claimed the party had deprived the Tories of wins in up to 15 seats, but
did not provide a full list.

He blamed the Tories for rejecting an electoral deal in which UKIP candidates
would have stood aside in return for a referendum on Britain leaving Europe. He
added: 'We are not responsible for the behaviour of the Conservative Party who
rejected the offer of a deal. The voice of our supporters is important and
massive and the only way to teach the Conservatives that is to hurt them.'

BNP IS REJECTED ACROSS THE COUNTRY

BNP leader Nick Griffin was 'smashed' into third place in his bid to enter the
Commons.

He also saw voters overwhelmingly reject his party's racist policies by kicking
them out of most of their seats in local elections.

Griffin had high hopes of success after winning seats for himself and a
colleague in the European Parliament last June.

He threw the bulk of his party's resources into contesting Barking, East London,
where his members until yesterday held 12 seats on the local council.

Sitting Labour MP Margaret Hodge however doubled her vote to 24,628 as Griffin
trailed in third with just 6,620.

Mrs Hodge said: 'The message from Britain to the BNP is clear - get out and stay
out.' Nationwide the BNP fought in 326 parliamentary seats, but after most
results were declared had seen its support inch up by only 1.83 per cent to
little more than half a million votes.

The BNP was comprehensively routed in the local elections. All 12 of its
councillors In Barking and Dagenham were toppled. With two-thirds of local
council results declared, it had lost 22 seats - retaining just 14.

Meanwhile, Labour doled out bloody noses to the Tories and the Lib Dems in the
local elections. The party seized control of eight extra Town Halls. Labour was
on course to win 300 extra council seats while the Tories were heading towards
losing 100 and the Lib Dems losing more than 60.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Farage 'scared of flying'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 132 words


UKIP politician Nigel Farage decided to go up in a plane to promote his election
bid despite being scared of flying, it was revealed last night.

The former MEP, 46, had a miracle escape when the plane crashed after the banner
it was trailing got wrapped round the tail fin. He is still in hospital with
broken ribs, a chipped spine and chest damage.

His former spin doctor Annabelle Fuller said Mr Farage had overcome a serious
car crash followed by testicular cancer as a younger man.

She said: "He has always showed inner strength which manifested itself yesterday
when he stepped into that tiny plane.

"He isn't comfortable with flying, but knows he has to get around."

Pilot Justin Adams, 45, was also still in hospital last night after the crash at
Hinton-in-the-Hedges, near Brackley, Northants.

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ESCAPE: Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Well, that was a waste of a sleepless night;
Vicki Woods shares David Dimbleby's pain as the hours - and cars - pass at a
stultifying pace

BYLINE: Vicki Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 674 words


Lord, that was a hard night's polling day. Never got to bed at all on Thursday.
We banked up the fire, opened a bottle, turned on the telly.

We're always prepared to go the long haul towards glad confident morning. Or
glad confident lunchtime, or even early afternoon. I never mind having missed an
entire night's sleep when a new dawn is breaking.

I like elections. I like firstpast-the-post, win/lose, in/out, sudden death.
Regicide goes deep in the bones of English people, I think. Doesn't everybody
want the midnight declaration and the removal vans in Downing Street next
morning? I mean, they're politicians after all. They knew what they were getting
into.

The first weird thing was the whiff of hanging chads as the polls closed. Oh,
look at all the people in queues, in the rain! Heavens, they are being turned
away from polling stations by men in fluorescent jackets!

Like in Third World countries run by dictators! "Extraordinary, unprecedented
scenes at polling stations as people are turned away," shouts a BBC reporter
under an umbrella. Women with trembling lips and creased faces are shouting at
the camera that they are being disfranchised.

Down my way, we didn't have any embarrassingly Third World polling glitches such
as those suffered by voters in Birmingham, Leeds, Sheffield, Manchester and
Chester. We had no lockouts at the polling station in the village hall, a vast
space, with four booths (which Hackney could have done with, given the churning
melee I was watching on telly). There was, it is true, a bit of a slip-up in the
Baughurst ward (some polling cards failed to arrive).

And the postal-vote ballot papers sent out to Preston Candover were suddenly
discovered to have named the Labour, Liberal Democrat and Ukip candidates but
completely failed to mention the Conservative. "So somebody," said my neighbour,
the headhunter's wife, "had to get into a car and hand-deliver corrected
postal-vote forms to every household that had requested one. Home delivery,
honestly. You shop, we drop."

Sir George Young was returned in the early hours of Friday morning with his
majority increased from an already heavenly 13,200 (in 2005) to a record 18,500.
He is a very good constituency MP, turns up for every village fete or Medieval
Fayre rain or shine and has never had a whiff of expenses problems. So that was
nice, bleeping up onscreen.

Very little else was, frankly.

At 1.50am, David Dimbleby said, "Whoo! This election is all at sixes and sevens.
David Blunkett just said Labour has lost but nobody knows who has won." I just
can't stand it when nobody knows who has won. I am too old to stay up all night
if nobody wins, and so is David Dimbleby. By 3.20am he was talking in a really
sleepy voice, partly to himself and partly to cars. "And now we're going over to
Nick Clegg, who is about to leave for his constituency count." Hours passed.
"Oh, here is yet another picture of a motor car." Lengthy pause. "With Nick
Clegg in it, possibly. And a lot of leylandii."

Eons crept by, and even he seemed to notice. "You know, these pictures of motor
cars are quite pretty in their way. But I think we'll move on." By 5.36am, it
was a hung parliament, deffo. My blackbird started hopping on to the step
outside the garden door and Jeremy Vine began to perform the most extraordinary
act of televisual business I ever saw, filling up the front benches of a virtual
House of Commons with avatars, who kept doing odd things such as crossing their
legs, or nodding. He said the Tories would have 306 seats and they needed 326
for an overall majority.

So it's going to be officially hung! Hung! Still there was no sign of Nick
Clegg. Kirsty Wark, poppyeyed from lack of sleep, began shrieking at David
Dimbleby around 6.15am. "In two hours' time, schoolchildren are coming in here
to swim!" she said. Her voice was ragged, dramatic, urgent. "And they still
haven't finished the count!" I should have gone to my bed long before this. I
think I'll go up now, actually.

Comment on Vicki Woods's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

The urgent need for economic stability means that the worst thing would be to
hold another election soon

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1459 words


SIR - I never thought that I would find myself agreeing with Simon Heffer but
his logic is irrefutable - "The worst that could happen is a second general
election" (Comment, April 28).

Agreement on the length of the new parliament is urgent and essential. Some
doom-mongers have claimed that a parliament without a clear overall majority
means inevitable instability. It needn't - if the parties agree a programme for
a fixed term. The case for doing so is compelling.

First, the current economic crisis demands consistent, continuous and consensual
measures, not more partisan squabbling. The latter would be inevitable in an
early "second election" campaign.

Secondly, the prime minister must be deterred from postponing vital but
unpopular decisions for party advantage - as occurred in the summer of 1974.

Thirdly, the public are certainly in no mood for relentless electioneering: if
politicians and the media relish election campaigns, they are in a small
minority.

Fourthly, the Queen must not be placed in the invidious position of a request
from the incumbent prime minister for an early dissolution, to assist his
party's prospects, before the economic chickens have come home to roost.

Finally, no election should ever again take place using the discredited
first-pastthe-post voting system. Any attempt by a party leader to pull the plug
on Parliament for another election, just when there may be a majority in the
Commons for reform, would be to swindle the public again.

The solution is near at hand. Last year we Liberal Democrats, in both Houses of
Parliament, promoted legislation to provide for a fixed-term parliament of four
years.

It seems highly likely that there will be a large cross-party majority of MPs in
favour of this change. The need to stabilise the financial markets should make
this a top priority. The legislation is ready: are our political leaders? Lord
Tyler London SW1 SIR - In Canada we have been blessed by minority governments
for the last few elections with no end in sight.

The blessing is that none of our three party leaders wishes to cause another
election too soon. Thus they cooperate, at least to some degree, certainly more
than they ever did before under a full majority.

At the same time the Prime Minister, Stephen Harper, is not free to indulge
himself.

A minority government prevents the politicians from doing very much at all, and
it turns out the country can run itself quite nicely without their interference.
Simon Ruddell Ladner, British Columbia, Canada SIR - I note that all three major
party leaders say that what we need now is a government that will govern in the
"national interest", almost as though this is a novel concept.

Who else's interest would they govern for? Not their own surely? Richard
Longthorp Howden, East Yorkshire SIR - For all the Lib Dems' and Labour's talk
of PR, neither mentioned Ukip or the BNP. Together these parties have polled 5
per cent of the vote but got no seats.

The BNP got more votes than the SNP.

This share of the vote would give them 30 odd seats under PR. This will never be
allowed to happen, in spite of Nick Clegg's talking about "fairness".

Steve Duckworth Horsley, Surrey SIR - The Lib-Dem vote increased slightly on a
bigger turn-out, but they won fewer seats. There is no mandate for PR. The
Conservatives failed to get an absolute majority only because of the unfair
constituency boundaries, which favour Labour and must be put right.

The country does not want PR enabling small parties to be in a position of
permanent power in hung parliaments. Arun Agarwal Henfield, West Sussex SIR - If
electoral reform is the Lib Dem price for supporting a minority Tory government,
it would be politically wise for the Conservatives to ensure that any new
electoral system is one under which they can actually win power outright.

The Alternative Vote system is the only form of proportional representation
under which this is possible, but only if combined with constituencies of equal
size and the ending of the over representation of Scotland, Wales and inner-city
Labour strongholds.

David Cameron is right not to rule out electoral reform if this avoids the
possibility of Labour introducing a voting system which could result in a
permanent centre-Left coalition.

Philip Duly Haslemere, Surrey SIR - I look forward to all those Liberal
Democrats elected with less than 50 per cent of the vote resigning on the basis
that the votes against them were proportionally greater. Colin H. Bond Vale,
Guernsey SIR - Perhaps we should adopt the system of voting used in EU
referendums, where the poll is run again and again until the "right" result is
obtained.

Colin Goodall Hazleton, Gloucestershire SIR - The ballot paper given to me to
place my cross had the names of the four candidates standing for election. In
the section showing the name of the Liberal Democrat candidate, "Nick Clegg's
Liberal party" was printed.

I have never seen such a thing before. George Mahoney Ferndown, Dorset SIR - In
retrospect, it might have been a strategic error for Nick Clegg to agree to
participate in the television debates. John O'Byrne Dublin SIR - Despite poor
results across the country, the UK Independence Party votes may well have denied
the Conservatives 20 or so seats and hence a working majority.

While in the shorter term this risks Europhile Lib Dem influence at the highest
level, sooner or later the Conservative leadership must recognise that they
stand little chance of a standalone Government unless and until they come to
their senses over the EU.

Until the EU implodes of course. Idris Francis Petersfield, Hampshire SIR - An
urgent answer is now required to the West Lothian question. The Conservatives
have a substantial overall majority of the MPs elected from English
constituencies.

It would be utterly undemocratic for the 59 MPs returned by Scottish voters
(with only one Conservative among them) to obstruct the clear mandate the
Conservatives have to legislate on English domestic issues, when Scottish
domestic issues are decided by Scottish MSPs, elected by Scottish voters, on
which the English electorate and the 533 English MPs have no say.

Edward Peters Selling, Kent SIR - It is clear that England wants the
Conservatives to govern it, and an English parliament would end the unfair West
Lothian issue for good.

Nick Denton West Molesey, Surrey SIR - A basic right in a democracy is that if
you can be bothered to turn up, you can vote. To wait for an hour and half only
to be turned away is a disgrace.

We've been doing this long enough for there to be contingency plans to cope with
exceptional turnouts, and, at an average of 65 per cent, this wasn't an
exceptional turnout.

R.M.S. Turner Edinburgh SIR - On Thursday night, I queued patiently at the busy
bar of my local pub. At 11pm the landlord called time and I wasn't allowed to
get a drink. Can I mount a legal challenge? Alan Carter Newcastle upon Tyne SIR
- Many other countries vote on a Sunday. We should do the same. This spreads the
load at polling stations, rather than an evening rush after work.

R.J. Jones Tamworth, Staffordshire SIR - What a shambles! Now we can't even
laugh at the Americans for electing George Bush twice.

Philip Edwardes-Ker Sark, Channel Islands SIR - As it turned out, the most
suitable election hymn (Letters, May 5) would have been Through the Night of
Doubt and Sorrow.

Jeremy M.J. Havard London SW3 SIR - Surely the most appropriate piece of music
is Handel's All We Like Sheep. Dr Donald Stevens Bournemouth, Dorset SIR -
Arriving with photo ID at the town hall, as my postal vote did not arrive, I was
told that as a Dutchman I could not vote in any but local elections. I have
spent 31 years casting illegal votes. How many other criminals can boast so long
a career and get away with it when caught? Tim Knoops Pembury, Kent SIR - Now
that Jacqui Smith is no longer an MP can we presume that she will no longer
require her "second home" in Redditch, for which she claimed large sums of money
through her MP's allowances? Instead can we presume that she will return to live
with her husband and children in her "main home" which she declared was a room
in her sister's house? Steve Guilford Cheltenham, Gloucestershire SIR - How nice
that the BBC had an election-night party. I take it everyone paid for their own
drinks.

John de Lange London N12 SIR - Having seen footage of the BBC election-night
party on the Thames, can I assume that if I'd turned up waving my TV Licence I
would have been admitted? John Wilson Princes Risborough, Buckinghamshire SIR -
I see that David Barnes, the Independent English Delegate candidate for the
Hertford and Stortford seat, polled no votes.

Truly independent - he appears not to have voted for himself.

Richard Nash London E1

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Conservative poster for the 1929 election - which produced a hung
parliament
GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Election 2010;
How Britain voted

SECTION: ELECTION 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 42504 words


David Cameron's Conservatives have won the most votes and the most seats in the
2010 General Election but failed to win an overall majority of seats... 1
ABERAVON *Hywel Francis (Lab) 16,073 51.92 Keith Davies (LD) 5,034 16.26
Caroline Jones (C) 4,411 14.25 Paul Nicholls-Jones (PC) 2,198 7.10 Kevin Edwards
(BNP) 1,276 4.12 Andrew Tutton (Ind) 919 2.97 Captain Beany (Bean) 558 1.80 Joe
Callan (UKIP) 489 1.58 Maj. 11,039 35.66 Lab hold. Swing 5.32 Lab to LD.
Electorate 50,789. Turnout 60.95% May 2005: Francis Lab 18,077 (60.05%). Waller
LD 4,140 (13.75%). Evans PC 3,545 (11.78%). Rees-Mogg C 3,064 (10.18%). Wright
Veritas 768 (2.55%). La Vey Green 510 (1.69%). Turnout 58.94%. 2 ABERCONWY Guto
Bebb (C) 10,734 35.82 Ronald Hughes (Lab) 7,336 24.48 Mike Priestley (LD) 5,786
19.31 Phil Edwards (PC) 5,341 17.82 Mike Wieteska (UKIP) 632 2.11 Louise
Wynne-Jones (Ch P) 137 0.46 Maj.

3,398 11.34 C gain from Lab. Electorate 44,593. Turnout 67.20% May 2005: Lab
8,994 (33.00%). C 7,924 (29.07%). LD 5,197 (19.07%). PC 3,818 (14.01%). Others
517 (1.90%). Green 512 (1.88%). UKIP 296 (1.09%). Turnout 61.98%. 3 ABERDEEN
NORTH *Frank Doran (Lab) 16,746 44.42 Joanna Strathdee (SNP) 8,385 22.24
Kristian Chapman (LD) 7,001 18.57 Stewart Whyte (C) 4,666 12.38 Roy Jones (BNP)
635 1.68 Ewan Robertson (SSP) 268 0.71 Maj. 8,361 2.18 Lab hold. Swing 1.00 SNP
to Lab. Electorate 64,808. Turnout 58.17% May 2005: Doran Lab 15,557 (42.47%).
Delaney LD 8,762 (23.92%). Stewart SNP 8,168 (22.30%). Anderson C 3,456 (9.43%).
Connon SSP 691 (1.89%). Turnout 55.75%. 4 ABERDEEN SOUTH *Anne Begg (Lab) 15,722
36.53 John Sleigh (LD) 12,216 28.39 Amanda Harvie (C) 8,914 20.71 Mark McDonald
(SNP) 5,102 11.86 Susan Ross (BNP) 529 1.23 Rhonda Reekie (Green) 413 0.96
Robert Green (SACL) 138 0.32 Maj. 3,506 8.15 Lab hold. Swing 2.45 LD to Lab.
Electorate 64,031. Turnout 67.21% May 2005: Begg Lab 15,272 (36.69%). Harris LD
13,924 (33.45%). Whyte C 7,134 (17.14%). Watt SNP 4,120 (9.90%). Reekie Green
768 (1.85%). Munro SSP 403 (0.97%). Turnout 62.11%. 5 ABERDEENSHIRE WEST &
KINCARDINE *Sir Robert Smith (LD) 17,362 38.42 Alex Johnstone (C) 13,678 30.26
Dennis Robertson (SNP) 7,086 15.68 Greg Williams (Lab) 6,159 13.63 Gary Raikes
(BNP) 513 1.14 Anthony Atkinson (UKIP) 397 0.88 Maj. 3,684 8.15 LD hold. Swing
4.89 LD to C. Electorate 66,110. Turnout 68.36% May 2005: Smith LD 19,285
(46.30%). Johnstone C 11,814 (28.37%). Barrowman Lab 5,470 (13.13%). Little SNP
4,700 (11.29%). Grant SSP 379 (0.91%). Turnout 63.54%. 6 AIRDRIE & SHOTTS Pamela
Nash (Lab) 20,849 58.16 Sophia Coyle (SNP) 8,441 23.55 Ruth Whitfield (C) 3,133
8.74 John Love (LD) 2,898 8.08 John McGeechan (Ind) 528 1.47 Maj. 12,408 34.61
Lab hold. Swing 3.93 Lab to SNP. Electorate 62,364. Turnout 57.48% May 2005:
Reid Lab 19,568 (59.01%). Balfour SNP 5,484 (16.54%). Watt LD 3,792 (11.44%).
Cottis C 3,271 (9.86%). Coats SSP 706 (2.13%). Rowan Scot Ind 337 (1.02%).
Turnout 53.52%. 7 ALDERSHOT +Gerald Howarth (C) 21,203 46.72 Adrian Collett (LD)
15,617 34.41 Jonathan Slater (Lab) 5,489 12.09 Robert Snare (UKIP) 2,041 4.50
Gary Crowd (Eng Ind) 803 1.77 Juliana Brimicombe (Ch P) 231 0.51 Maj. 5,586
12.31 C hold. Electorate 71,469. Turnout 63.50% May 2005: C 18,474 (44.03%). LD
12,129 (28.90%). Lab 9,113 (21.72%). Others 1,254 (2.99%). UKIP 992 (2.36%).
Turnout 63.61%. 8 ALDRIDGE-BROWNHILLS +Richard Shepherd (C) 22,913 59.31 Ashiq
Hussain (Lab) 7,647 19.79 Ian Jenkins (LD) 6,833 17.69 Karl Macnaughton (Green)
847 2.19 Sue Gray (Ch P) 394 1.02 Maj. 15,266 39.51 C hold. Electorate 59,355.
Turnout 65.09% May 2005: C 17,845 (48.21%). Lab 12,113 (32.72%). LD 4,406
(11.90%). Others 1,620 (4.38%). UKIP 1,032 (2.79%). Turnout 63.53%. 9 ALTRINCHAM
& SALE WEST +Graham Brady (C) 24,176 48.95 Jane Brophy (LD) 12,581 25.47 Tom
Ross (Lab) 11,073 22.42 Kenneth Bullman (UKIP) 1,563 3.16 Maj. 11,595 23.47 C
hold. Electorate 71,254. Turnout 69.32% May 2005: C 20,384 (47.01%). Lab 12,766
(29.44%). LD 9,489 (21.89%). UKIP 718 (1.66%). Turnout 67.78%. 10 ALYN & DEESIDE
*Mark Tami (Lab) 15,804 39.59 Will Gallagher (C) 12,885 32.27 Paul Brighton (LD)
7,308 18.31 Maurice Jones (PC) 1,549 3.88 John Walker (BNP) 1,368 3.43 James
Howson (UKIP) 1,009 2.53 Maj. 2,919 7.31 Lab hold. Swing 8.15 Lab to C.
Electorate 60,931. Turnout 65.52% May 2005: Tami Lab 17,331 (48.83%). Hale C
8,953 (25.22%). Brighton LD 6,174 (17.39%). Coombs PC 1,320 (3.72%). Crawford
UKIP 918 (2.59%). Armstrong-Braun FWP 378 (1.06%). Kilshaw Ind 215 (0.61%).
Davies Comm Brit 207 (0.58%). Turnout 60.22%. 11 AMBER VALLEY Nigel Mills (C)
17,746 38.61 +Judy Mallaber (Lab) 17,210 37.45 Tom Snowdon (LD) 6,636 14.44
Michael Clarke (BNP) 3,195 6.95 Sue Ransome (UKIP) 906 1.97 Sam Thing (Loony)
265 0.58 Maj. 536 1.17 C gain from Lab. Electorate 70,171. Turnout 65.49% May
2005: Lab 20,427 (46.45%). C 14,915 (33.92%). LD 5,446 (12.38%). Others 2,467
(5.61%). UKIP 718 (1.63%). Turnout 64.04%. 12 ANGUS *Mike Weir (SNP) 15,020
39.57 Alberto Costa (C) 11,738 30.92 Kevin Hutchens (Lab) 6,535 17.22 Sanjay
Samani (LD) 4,090 10.77 Martin Gray (UKIP) 577 1.52 Maj. 3,282 8.65 SNP hold.
Swing 2.22 C to SNP. Electorate 62,863. Turnout 60.39% May 2005: Weir SNP 12,840
(33.66%). Bushby C 11,239 (29.46%). Bradley Lab 6,850 (17.96%). Rennie LD 6,660
(17.46%). Manley SSP 556 (1.46%). Turnout 60.46%. 16 ARFON +Hywel Williams (PC)
9,383 35.98 Alan Pugh (Lab) 7,928 30.40 Robin Millar (C) 4,416 16.93 Sarah Green
(LD) 3,666 14.06 Elwyn Williams (UKIP) 685 2.63 Maj. 1,455 5.58 PC gain from
Lab. Electorate 41,198. Turnout 63.30% May 2005: Lab 8,484 (33.88%). PC 8,028
(32.06%). C 4,106 (16.40%). LD 3,942 (15.74%). UKIP 482 (1.92%). Turnout 58.24%.
17 ARGYLL & BUTE *Alan Reid (LD) 14,292 31.61 Gary Mulvaney (C) 10,861 24.03
David Graham (Lab) 10,274 22.73 Michael MacKenzie (SNP) 8,563 18.94 Elaine
Morrison (Green) 789 1.75 George Doyle (Ind) 272 0.60 John Black (Jacobite) 156
0.35 Maj. 3,431 7.59 LD hold. Swing 2.72 LD to C. Electorate 67,165. Turnout
67.31% May 2005: Reid LD 15,786 (36.52%). McGrigor C 10,150 (23.48%). Manson Lab
9,696 (22.43%). Strong SNP 6,716 (15.54%). Henderson SSP 881 (2.04%). Turnout
64.21%. 18 ARUNDEL & SOUTH DOWNS +Nick Herbert (C) 32,333 57.76 Derek Deedman
(LD) 15,642 27.94 Tim Lunnon (Lab) 4,835 8.64 Stuart Bower (UKIP) 3,172 5.67
Maj. 16,691 29.81 C hold. Electorate 77,564. Turnout 72.18% May 2005: C 25,968
(50.31%). LD 13,677 (26.50%). Lab 8,947 (17.33%). UKIP 2,713 (5.26%). Others 313
(0.61%). Turnout 70.79%. 19 ASHFIELD Gloria de Piero (Lab) 16,239 33.69 Jason
Zadrozny (LD) 16,047 33.30 Garry Hickton (C) 10,698 22.20 Edward Holmes (BNP)
2,781 5.77 Tony Ellis (Eng Dem) 1,102 2.29 Terry Coleman (UKIP) 933 1.94 Eddie
Smith (Ind) 396 0.82 Maj. 192 0.40 Lab hold. Electorate 77,379. Turnout 62.29%
May 2005: Lab 20,801 (48.70%). C 10,431 (24.42%). LD 5,910 (13.84%). Others
5,569 (13.04%). Turnout 57.07%. 20 ASHFORD +Damian Green (C) 29,878 54.14 Chris
Took (LD) 12,581 22.80 Chris Clark (Lab) 9,204 16.68 Jeffrey Elenor (UKIP) 2,508
4.54 Steve Campkin (Green) 1,014 1.84 Maj. 17,297 31.34 C hold. Electorate
81,269. Turnout 67.90% May 2005: C 25,225 (51.44%). Lab 12,957 (26.42%). LD
7,648 (15.60%). Green 1,664 (3.39%). UKIP 1,541 (3.14%). Turnout 65.40%. 21
ASHTON UNDER LYNE +David Heyes (Lab) 18,604 48.41 Seema Kennedy (C) 9,510 24.75
Paul Larkin (LD) 5,703 14.84 David Lomas (BNP) 2,929 7.62 Angela McManus (UKIP)
1,686 4.39 Maj. 9,094 23.66 Lab hold. Electorate 67,564. Turnout 56.88% May
2005: Lab 20,136 (58.48%). C 6,937 (20.15%). LD 4,017 (11.67%). Others 2,621
(7.61%). UKIP 721 (2.09%). Turnout 51.53%. 22 AYLESBURY +David Lidington (C)
27,736 52.17 Steven Lambert (LD) 15,118 28.44 Kathryn White (Lab) 6,695 12.59
Chris Adams (UKIP) 3,613 6.80 Maj. 12,618 23.73 C hold. Electorate 77,934.
Turnout 68.21% May 2005: C 23,103 (48.35%). LD 13,789 (28.86%). Lab 8,730
(18.27%). UKIP 2,161 (4.52%). Turnout 62.43%. 23 AYR, CARRICK & CUMNOCK *Sandra
Osborne (Lab) 21,632 47.14 William Grant (C) 11,721 25.54 Charles Brodie (SNP)
8,276 18.03 James Taylor (LD) 4,264 9.29 Maj. 9,911 21.60 Lab hold. Swing 0.30
Lab to C. Electorate 73,320. Turnout 62.59% May 2005: Osborne Lab 20,433
(45.36%). Jones C 10,436 (23.17%). Waugh LD 6,341 (14.08%). Brodie SNP 5,932
(13.17%). Sharp SSCUP 592 (1.31%). Steele SSP 554 (1.23%). McDaid Soc Lab 395
(0.88%). McCormack UKIP 365 (0.81%). Turnout 61.33%. 24 AYRSHIRE CENTRAL *Brian
Donohoe (Lab) 20,950 47.71 Maurice Golden (C) 8,943 20.36 John Mullen (SNP)
8,364 19.05 Andrew Chamberlain (LD) 5,236 11.92 James McDaid (Soc Lab) 422 0.96
Maj. 12,007 27.34 Lab hold. Swing 1.51 C to Lab. Electorate 68,352. Turnout
64.25% May 2005: Donohoe Lab 19,905 (46.43%). Clark C 9,482 (22.12%). Kennedy LD
6,881 (16.05%). Hanif SNP 4,969 (11.59%). Morton SSP 820 (1.91%). Cochrane Soc
Lab 468 (1.09%). Groves UKIP 346 (0.81%). Turnout 62.46%. 25 AYRSHIRE NORTH &
ARRAN *Katy Clark (Lab) 21,860 47.40 Patricia Gibson (SNP) 11,965 25.95 Philip
Lardner (C) 7,212 15.64 Gillian Cole-Hamilton (LD) 4,630 10.04 Louise McDaid
(Soc Lab) 449 0.97 Maj. 9,895 21.46 Lab hold. Swing 2.26 Lab to SNP. Electorate
74,953. Turnout 61.53% May 2005: Clark Lab 19,417 (43.92%). Connell C 8,121
(18.37%). Gurney SNP 7,938 (17.96%). White LD 7,264 (16.43%). Turbett SSP 780
(1.76%). Pursley UKIP 382 (0.86%). McDaid Soc Lab 303 (0.69%). Turnout 60.57%.
26 BANBURY +Tony Baldry (C) 29,703 52.81 David Rundle (LD) 11,476 20.41 Les
Sibley (Lab) 10,773 19.16 Dr David Fairweather (UKIP) 2,806 4.99 Alastair White
(Green) 959 1.71 Roseanne Edwards (Ind) 524 0.93 Maj. 18,227 32.41 C hold.
Electorate 86,986. Turnout 64.66% May 2005: C 25,170 (46.88%). Lab 15,080
(28.09%). LD 9,395 (17.50%). Green 1,514 (2.82%). Others 1,335 (2.49%). UKIP
1,191 (2.22%). Turnout 64.41%. 27 BANFF & BUCHAN Eilidh Whiteford (SNP) 15,868
41.25 Jimmy Buchan (C) 11,841 30.78 Glen Reynolds (Lab) 5,382 13.99 Galen Milne
(LD) 4,365 11.35 Richard Payne (BNP) 1,010 2.63 Maj. 4,027 10.47 SNP hold. Swing
10.67 SNP to C. Electorate 64,300. Turnout 59.82% May 2005: Salmond SNP 19,044
(51.17%). Wallace C 7,207 (19.37%). Anderson LD 4,952 (13.31%). Okasha Lab 4,476
(12.03%). Ross OCV 683 (1.84%). Kemp UKIP 442 (1.19%). Will SSP 412 (1.11%).
Turnout 56.76%. 28 BARKING +Margaret Hodge (Lab) 24,628 54.31 Simon Marcus (C)
8,073 17.80 Nick Griffin (BNP) 6,620 14.60 Dominic Carman (LD) 3,719 8.20 Frank
Maloney (UKIP) 1,300 2.87 George Hargreaves (Ch P) 482 1.06 Jayne Forbes (Green)
317 0.70 Crucial Chris Dowling (Loony) 82 0.18 Thomas Darwood (Ind) 77 0.17 Dapo
Sijuwola (RP) 45 0.10 Maj. 16,555 36.51 Lab hold. Electorate 73,864. Turnout
61.39% May 2005: Lab 18,293 (49.61%). C 6,110 (16.57%). BNP 5,997 (16.26%). LD
3,973 (10.78%). UKIP 1,291 (3.50%). Green 618 (1.68%). Others 589 (1.60%).
Turnout 48.24%. 29 BARNSLEY CENTRAL +Eric Illsley (Lab) 17,487 47.26 Christopher
Wiggin (LD) 6,394 17.28 Piers Tempest (C) 6,388 17.26 Ian Sutton (BNP) 3,307
8.94

David Silver (UKIP) 1,727 4.67 Donald Wood (Ind) 732 1.98 Tony Devoy (Ind) 610
1.65 Terry Robinson (Soc Lab) 356 0.96 Maj. 11,093 29.98 Lab hold. Electorate
65,543. Turnout 56.45% May 2005: Lab 17,805 (57.63%). LD 5,966 (19.31%). C 4,548
(14.72%). Others 2,578 (8.34%). Turnout 47.70%. 30 BARNSLEY EAST Michael Dugher
(Lab) 18,059 47.05 John Brown (LD) 6,969 18.16 James Hockney (C) 6,329 16.49
Colin Porter (BNP) 3,301 8.60 Tony Watson (UKIP) 1,731 4.51 Kevin Hogan (Ind)
712 1.85 Eddie Devoy (Ind) 684 1.78 Ken Capstick (Soc Lab) 601 1.57 Maj. 11,090
28.89 Lab hold. Electorate 68,435. Turnout 56.09% May 2005: Lab 22,808 (70.97%).
LD 4,510 (14.03%). C 4,078 (12.69%). Others 740 (2.30%). Turnout 48.82%. 31
BARROW & FURNESS John Woodcock (Lab Co-op) 21,226 48.11 John Gough (C) 16,018
36.30 Barry Rabone (LD) 4,424 10.03 John Smith (UKIP) 841 1.91 Mike Ashburner
(BNP) 840 1.90 Christopher Loynes (Green) 530 1.20 Brian Greaves (Ind) 245 0.56
Maj. 5,208 11.80 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 68,758. Turnout 64.17% May 2005: Lab
17,445 (45.17%). C 12,602 (32.63%). LD 6,870 (17.79%). Others 922 (2.39%). UKIP
786 (2.03%). Turnout 58.93%. 32 BASILDON & BILLERICAY +John Baron (C) 21,922
52.74 Allan Davies (Lab) 9,584 23.06 Mike Hibbs (LD) 6,538 15.73 Irene Bateman
(BNP) 1,934 4.65 Alan Broad (UKIP) 1,591 3.83 Maj. 12,338 29.68 C hold.
Electorate 65,482. Turnout 63.48% May 2005: C 18,699 (46.01%). Lab 14,140
(34.79%). LD 5,376 (13.23%). Others 1,435 (3.53%). UKIP 993 (2.44%). Turnout
62.30%. 33 BASILDON SOUTH & THURROCK EAST Stephen Metcalfe (C) 19,624 43.87
+Angela Smith (Lab Co-op) 13,852 30.96 Geoff Williams (LD) 5,977 13.36 Kerry
Smith (UKIP) 2,639 5.90 Chris Roberts (BNP) 2,518 5.63 None Of The Above X (ND)
125 0.28 Maj. 5,772 12.90 C gain from Lab. Electorate 71,815. Turnout 62.29% May
2005: Lab 17,195 (40.66%). C 16,290 (38.52%). LD 4,469 (10.57%). Others 2,565
(6.07%). UKIP 1,109 (2.62%). Green 662 (1.57%). Turnout 59.27%. 34 BASINGSTOKE
+Maria Miller (C) 25,590 50.52 John Shaw (LD) 12,414 24.51 Funda Pepperell (Lab)
10,327 20.39 Stella Howell (UKIP) 2,076 4.10 Steve Saul (BCP) 247 0.49 Maj.
13,176 26.01 C hold. Electorate 75,470. Turnout 67.12% May 2005: C 16,409
(38.82%). Lab 13,758 (32.55%). LD 9,261 (21.91%). Others 969 (2.29%). UKIP 942
(2.23%). Green 928 (2.20%). Turnout 60.96%. 35 BASSETLAW +John Mann (Lab) 25,018
50.46 Keith Girling (C) 16,803 33.89 David Dobbie (LD) 5,570 11.24 Andrea
Hamilton (UKIP) 1,779 3.59 Grahame Whithurst (Ind) 407 0.82 Maj. 8,215 16.57 Lab
hold. Electorate 76,542. Turnout 64.77% May 2005: Lab 24,413 (52.98%). C 16,157
(35.07%). LD 5,507 (11.95%). Turnout 60.75%. 36 BATH +Don Foster (LD) 26,651
56.60 Fabian Richter (C) 14,768 31.36 Hattie Ajderian (Lab) 3,251 6.90 Eric
Lucas (Green) 1,120 2.38 Ernie Warrender (UKIP) 890 1.89 Steve Hewett (Ch P) 250
0.53 ANON (ND) 69 0.15 Sean Geddis (Ind) 56 0.12 Robert Craig (South) 31 0.07
Maj. 11,883 25.24 LD hold. Electorate 65,603. Turnout 71.77% May 2005: LD 18,845
(45.45%). C 13,221 (31.88%). Lab 5,974 (14.41%). Green 2,494 (6.01%). UKIP 697
(1.68%). Others 235 (0.57%). Turnout 69.08%. 37 BATLEY & SPEN +Mike Wood (Lab)
21,565 42.19 Janice Small (C) 17,159 33.57 Neil Bentley (LD) 8,095 15.84 David
Exley (BNP) 3,685 7.21 Matt Blakeley (Green) 605 1.18 Maj. 4,406 8.62 Lab hold.
Electorate 76,732. Turnout 66.61% May 2005: Lab 20,249 (45.26%). C 14,189
(31.71%). LD 6,888 (15.39%). Others 2,668 (5.96%). Green 750 (1.68%). Turnout
60.79%. 38 BATTERSEA Jane Ellison (C) 23,103 47.35 +Martin Linton (Lab) 17,126
35.10 Layla Moran (LD) 7,176 14.71 Guy Evans (Green) 559 1.15 Christopher
MacDonald (UKIP) 505 1.04 Hugh Salmon (Battersea) 168 0.34 Tom Fox (Ind) 155
0.32 Maj. 5,977 12.25 C gain from Lab. Electorate 74,300. Turnout 65.67% May
2005: Lab 16,615 (40.67%). C 16,283 (39.85%). LD 5,906 (14.45%). Green 1,720
(4.21%). UKIP 334 (0.82%). Turnout 59.18%. 39 BEACONSFIELD +Dominic Grieve (C)
32,053 61.06 John Edwards (LD) 10,271 19.57 Jeremy Miles (Lab) 6,135 11.69
Delphine Gray-Fisk (UKIP) 2,597 4.95 Jem Bailey (Green) 768 1.46 Andrew Cowen
(MP Expense) 475 0.90 Quentin Baron (Ind) 191 0.36 Maj. 21,782 41.50 C hold.
Electorate 74,982. Turnout 70.00% May 2005: C 24,934 (54.09%). LD 10,140
(22.00%). Lab 8,963 (19.44%). UKIP 2,063 (4.48%). Turnout 63.16%. 40 BECKENHAM
Bob Stewart (C) 27,597 57.87 Steve Jenkins (LD) 9,813 20.58 Damien Egan (Lab)
6,893 14.45 Owen Brolly (UKIP) 1,551 3.25 Roger Tonks (BNP) 1,001 2.10 Ann
Garrett (Green) 608 1.28 Dan Eastgate (Eng Dem) 223 0.47 Maj. 17,784 37.29 C
hold. Electorate 66,219. Turnout 72.01% May 2005: C 25,002 (59.72%). Lab 8,089
(19.32%). LD 6,748 (16.12%). UKIP 1,189 (2.84%). Others 836 (2.00%). Turnout
65.33%. 41 BEDFORD Richard Fuller (C) 17,546 38.90 +Patrick Hall (Lab) 16,193
35.90 Henry Vann (LD) 8,957 19.86 Mark Adkin (UKIP) 1,136 2.52 William Dewick
(BNP) 757 1.68 Ben Foley (Green) 393 0.87 Samrat Bhandari (Ind) 120 0.27 Maj.
1,353 3.00 C gain from Lab. Electorate 68,491. Turnout 65.85% May 2005: Lab
17,657 (41.59%). C 14,244 (33.55%). LD 9,263 (21.82%). UKIP 1,011 (2.38%).
Others 283 (0.67%). Turnout 62.01%. 42 BEDFORDSHIRE MID +Nadine Dorries (C)
28,815 52.49 Linda Jack (LD) 13,663 24.89 David Reeves (Lab) 8,108 14.77 Bill
Hall (UKIP) 2,826 5.15 Malcolm Bailey (Green) 773 1.41 John Cooper (Eng Dem) 712
1.30 Maj. 15,152 27.60 C hold. Electorate 76,023. Turnout 72.21% May 2005: C
23,408 (46.61%). LD 11,815 (23.53%). Lab 11,261 (22.42%). UKIP 1,376 (2.74%).
Green 1,292 (2.57%). Others 1,070 (2.13%). Turnout 68.71%. 43 BEDFORDSHIRE NORTH
EAST +Alistair Burt (C) 30,989 55.78 Mike Pitt (LD) 12,047 21.69 Edward Brown
(Lab) 8,957 16.12 Brian Capell (UKIP) 2,294 4.13 Ian Seeby (BNP) 1,265 2.28 Maj.
18,942 34.10 C hold. Electorate 78,060. Turnout 71.17% May 2005: C 24,592
(49.87%). Lab 12,464 (25.27%). LD 10,295 (20.88%). UKIP 1,966 (3.99%). Turnout
68.39%. 44 BEDFORDSHIRE SOUTH WEST *Andrew Selous (C) 26,815 52.81 Rod Cantrill
(LD) 10,166 20.02 Jennifer Bone (Lab) 9,948 19.59 Martin Newman (UKIP) 2,142
4.22 Mark Tolman (BNP) 1,703 3.35 Maj. 16,649 32.79 C hold. Swing 0.69 LD to C.
Electorate 76,559. Turnout 66.32% May 2005: Selous C 22,114 (48.27%). Still Lab
13,837 (30.20%). Strange LD 7,723 (16.86%). Wise UKIP 1,923 (4.20%). Gurney
Forum 217 (0.47%). Turnout 61.83%. 49 BERMONDSEY & OLD SOUTHWARK +Simon Hughes
(LD) 21,590 48.35 Val Shawcross (Lab) 13,060 29.25 Loanna Morrison (C) 7,638
17.11 Stephen Tyler (BNP) 1,370 3.07 Tom Chance (Green) 718 1.61 Alan Kirkby
(Ind) 155 0.35 Steve Freeman (ND) 120 0.27 Maj. 8,530 19.10 LD hold. Electorate
77,623. Turnout 57.52% May 2005: LD 17,177 (47.65%). Lab 11,408 (31.64%). C
4,671 (12.96%). Green 1,096 (3.04%). Others 937 (2.60%). UKIP 763 (2.12%).
Turnout 48.76%. 50 BERWICK-UPON-TWEED *Sir Alan Beith (LD) 16,806 43.72
Anne-Marie Trevelyan (C) 14,116 36.72 Alan Strickland (Lab) 5,061 13.17 Michael
Weatheritt (UKIP) 1,243 3.23 Peter Mailer (BNP) 1,213 3.16 Maj. 2,690 7.00 LD
gain from C. Electorate 57,403. Turnout 66.96% May 2005: LD 19,147 (52.59%). C
10,562 (29.01%). Lab 6,697 (18.40%). Turnout 63.29%. 51 BERWICKSHIRE, ROXBURGH &
SELKIRK +Michael Moore (LD) 22,230 45.35 John Lamont (C) 16,555 33.78 Ian Miller
(Lab) 5,003 10.21 Paul Wheelhouse (SNP) 4,497 9.17 Sherry Fowler (UKIP) 595 1.21
Chris Black (Jacobite) 134 0.27 Maj. 5,675 11.58 LD hold. Swing 0.71 LD to C.
Electorate 73,826. Turnout 66.39% May 2005: Moore LD 18,993 (41.85%). Lamont C
13,092 (28.84%). Held Lab 7,206 (15.88%). Orr SNP 3,885 (8.56%). Hein Lib 916
(2.02%). McIver SSP 695 (1.53%). Neilson UKIP 601 (1.32%). Turnout 63.30%. 52
BETHNAL GREEN & BOW Rushanara Ali (Lab) 21,784 42.94 Ajmal Masroor (LD) 10,210
20.13 Abjol Miah (Respect) 8,532 16.82 Zakir Khan (C) 7,071 13.94 Jeffrey
Marshall (BNP) 1,405 2.77 Farid Bakht (Green) 856 1.69 Patrick Brooks (Ind) 277
0.55 Alexander Van Terheyden (Pirate) 213 0.42 Hasib Hikmat (Voice) 209 0.41
Haji Choudhury (Ind) 100 0.20 Ahmed Malik (Ind) 71 0.14 Maj. 11,574 22.82 Lab
gain from Respect. Electorate 81,243. Turnout 62.44% May 2005: Respect 14,015
(36.53%). Lab 13,211 (34.43%). LD 4,721 (12.31%). C 4,583 (11.95%). Green 1,730
(4.51%). Others 106 (0.28%). Turnout 51.50%. 53 BEVERLEY & HOLDERNESS +Graham
Stuart (C) 25,063 47.11 Craig Dobson (LD) 12,076 22.70 Ian Saunders (Lab) 11,224
21.10 Neil Whitelam (BNP) 2,080 3.91 Andrew Horsfield (UKIP) 1,845 3.47 Bill
Rigby (Green) 686 1.29 Ron Hughes (Ind) 225 0.42 Maj. 12,987 24.41 C hold.
Electorate 79,611. Turnout 66.82% May 2005: C 20,345 (40.94%). Lab 17,248
(34.71%). LD 9,784 (19.69%). UKIP 2,312 (4.65%). Turnout 64.18%. 54 BEXHILL &
BATTLE +Greg Barker (C) 28,147 51.56 Mary Varrall (LD) 15,267 27.97 James
Royston (Lab) 6,524 11.95 Stuart Wheeler (Trust) 2,699 4.94 Neil Jackson (BNP)
1,950 3.57 Maj. 12,880 23.60 C hold. Electorate 79,208. Turnout 68.92% May 2005:
C 27,316 (54.18%). LD 11,423 (22.66%). Lab 9,016 (17.88%). UKIP 2,659 (5.27%).
Turnout 66.82%. 55 BEXLEYHEATH & CRAYFORD +David Evennett (C) 21,794 50.47
Howard Dawber (Lab) 11,450 26.52 Karelia Scott (LD) 5,502 12.74 Stephen James
(BNP) 2,042 4.73 John Dunford (UKIP) 1,557 3.61 John Griffiths (Eng Dem) 466
1.08 Adrian Ross (Green) 371 0.86 Maj. 10,344 23.95 C hold. Electorate 64,985.
Turnout 66.45% May 2005: C 19,497 (46.53%). Lab 14,330 (34.20%). LD 5,494
(13.11%). UKIP 1,338 (3.19%). Others 1,241 (2.96%). Turnout 64.66%. 56
BIRKENHEAD +Frank Field (Lab) 22,082 62.51 Andrew Gilbert (C) 6,687 18.93 Stuart
Kelly (LD) 6,554 18.55 Maj. 15,395 43.58 Lab hold. Electorate 62,773. Turnout
56.27% May 2005: Lab 20,534 (64.83%). LD 5,896 (18.61%). C 5,246 (16.56%).
Turnout 49.94%. 57 BIRMINGHAM EDGBASTON +Gisela Stuart (Lab) 16,894 40.64
Deirdre Alden (C) 15,620 37.57 Roger Harmer (LD) 6,387 15.36 Trevor Lloyd (BNP)
1,196 2.88 Greville Warwick (UKIP) 732 1.76 Phil Simpson (Green) 469 1.13 Harry
Takhar (Impact) 146 0.35 Charith Fernando (Ch P) 127 0.31 Maj. 1,274 3.06 Lab
hold. Electorate 68,573. Turnout 60.62% May 2005: Lab 16,732 (43.10%). C 15,177
(39.09%). LD 4,972 (12.81%). Green 1,103 (2.84%). UKIP 841 (2.17%). Turnout
57.30%. 58 BIRMINGHAM ERDINGTON Jack Dromey (Lab) 14,869 41.83 Robert Alden (C)
11,592 32.61 Ann Holtom (LD) 5,742 16.15 Kevin McHugh (BNP) 1,815 5.11 Maria Foy
(UKIP) 842 2.37 Tony Tomkins (Ind) 240 0.68 Terry Williams (NF) 229 0.64 Timothy
Gray (Ch P) 217 0.61 Maj. 3,277 9.22

Lab hold. Electorate 66,405. Turnout 53.53% May 2005: Lab 17,037 (52.94%). C
7,360 (22.87%). LD 5,089 (15.81%). Others 1,928 (5.99%). UKIP 766 (2.38%).
Turnout 48.42%. 59 BIRMINGHAM HALL GREEN +Roger Godsiff (Lab) 16,039 32.92 Salma
Yaqoob (Respect) 12,240 25.12 Jerry Evans (LD) 11,988 24.60 Jo Barker (C) 7,320
15.02 Alan Blumenthal (UKIP) 950 1.95 Andrew Gardner (Ind) 190 0.39 Maj. 3,799
7.80 Lab hold. Electorate 76,580. Turnout 63.63% May 2005: Lab 17,708 (42.35%).
LD 11,059 (26.45%). C 6,226 (14.89%). Others 5,190 (12.41%). UKIP 1,223 (2.93%).
Green 403 (0.96%). Turnout 55.94%. 60 BIRMINGHAM HODGE HILL +Liam Byrne (Lab)
22,077 51.98 Tariq Khan (LD) 11,775 27.72 Shailesh Parekh (C) 4,936 11.62
Richard Lumby (BNP) 2,333 5.49 Waheed Rafiq (UKIP) 714 1.68 Peter Johnson (Soc
Dem) 637 1.50 Maj. 10,302 24.26 Lab hold. Electorate 75,040. Turnout 56.60% May
2005: Lab 19,437 (46.91%). LD 12,374 (29.86%). C 4,394 (10.60%). Others 3,923
(9.47%). UKIP 1,140 (2.75%). Green 167 (0.40%). Turnout 55.74%. 61 BIRMINGHAM
LADYWOOD Shabana Mahmood (Lab) 19,950 55.67 Ayoub Khan (LD) 9,845 27.47 Nusrat
Ghani (C) 4,277 11.94 Christopher Booth (UKIP) 902 2.52 Peter Beck (Green) 859
2.40 Maj. 10,105 28.20 Lab hold. Electorate 73,646. Turnout 48.66% May 2005: Lab
15,422 (52.64%). LD 8,618 (29.42%). C 2,470 (8.43%). UKIP 1,621 (5.53%). Others
1,081 (3.69%). Green 84 (0.29%). Turnout 45.11%. 62 BIRMINGHAM NORTHFIELD
+Richard Burden (Lab) 16,841 40.28 Keely Huxtable (C) 14,059 3.62 Mike Dixon
(LD) 6,550 15.66 Les Orton (BNP) 2,290 5.48 John Borthwick (UKIP) 1,363 3.26
Susan Pearce (Green) 406 0.97 Dick Rodgers (Good) 305 0.73 Maj. 2,782 6.65 Lab
hold. Electorate 71,338. Turnout 58.61% May 2005: Lab 19,900 (50.34%). C 12,021
(30.41%). LD 4,875 (12.33%). Others 1,860 (4.70%). UKIP 878 (2.22%). Turnout
55.18%. 63 BIRMINGHAM PERRY BARR +Khalid Mahmood (Lab) 21,142 50.28 Karen
Hamilton (LD) 9,234 21.96 William Norton (C) 8,960 21.31 Melvin Ward (UKIP)
1,675 3.98 John Tyrrell (Soc Lab) 527 1.25 Deborah Hey-Smith (Ch P) 507 1.21
Maj. 11,908 28.32 Lab hold. Electorate 71,304. Turnout 58.97% May 2005: Lab
17,919 (46.30%). LD 10,094 (26.08%). C 6,702 (17.32%). Others 3,063 (7.92%).
UKIP 920 (2.38%). Turnout 53.82%. 64 BIRMINGHAM SELLY OAK +Steve McCabe (Lab)
17,950 38.55 Nigel Dawkins (C) 14,468 31.07 David Radcliffe (LD) 10,371 22.27
Lynette Orton (BNP) 1,820 3.91 Jeffery Burgess (UKIP) 1,131 2.43 James Burn
(Green) 664 1.43 Samuel Leeds (Ch P) 159 0.34 Maj. 3,482 7.48 Lab hold.
Electorate 74,805. Turnout 62.25% May 2005: Lab 20,672 (46.84%). C 13,108
(29.70%). LD 7,651 (17.34%). Green 1,594 (3.61%). UKIP 1,106 (2.51%). Turnout
60.34%. 65 BIRMINGHAM YARDLEY +John Hemming (LD) 16,162 39.56 Lynnette Kelly
(Lab) 13,160 32.22 Meirion Jenkins (C) 7,836 19.18 Tanya Lumby (BNP) 2,153 5.27
Graham Duffen (UKIP) 1,190 2.91 Paul Morris (NF) 349 0.85 Maj. 3,002 7.35 LD
hold. Electorate 72,321. Turnout 56.48% May 2005: LD 16,485 (42.03%). Lab 13,621
(34.73%). C 4,142 (10.56%). Others 4,104 (10.46%). UKIP 670 (1.71%). Green 201
(0.51%). Turnout 54.49%. 66 BISHOP AUCKLAND *Helen Goodman (Lab) 16,023 38.95
Barbara Harrison (C) 10,805 26.27 Mark Wilkes (LD) 9,189 22.34 Adam Walker (BNP)
2,036 4.95 Sam Zair (LLPBPP) 1,964 4.77 Dave Brothers (UKIP) 1,119 2.72 Maj.
5,218 12.68 Lab hold. Electorate 68,370. Turnout 60.17% May 2005: Lab 19,065
(50.00%). LD 9,018 (23.65%). C 8,736 (22.91%). UKIP 1,309 (3.43%). Turnout
56.12%. 67 BLACKBURN +Jack Straw (Lab) 21,751 47.81 Michael Law-Riding (C)
11,895 26.14 Paul English (LD) 6,918 15.20 Robin Evans (BNP) 2,158 4.74 Bushra
Irfanullah (BIB) 1,424 3.13 Bobby Anwar (UKIP) 942 2.07 Grace Astley (Ind) 238
0.52 Janis Sharp (Ind) 173 0.38 Maj. 9,856 21.66 Lab hold. Electorate 72,331.
Turnout 62.90% May 2005: Lab 17,439 (42.14%). C 9,391 (22.69%). LD 8,518
(20.58%). Others 4,321 (10.44%). UKIP 944 (2.28%). Green 775 (1.87%). Turnout
57.67%. 68 BLACKLEY & BROUGHTON +Graham Stringer (Lab) 18,563 54.27 James
Edsberg (C) 6,260 18.30 William Hobhouse (LD) 4,861 14.21 Derek Adams (BNP)
2,469 7.22 Kay Phillips (Respect) 996 2.91 Bob Willescroft (UKIP) 894 2.61
Shafiq-Uz Zaman (Ch P) 161 0.47 Maj. 12,303 35.97 Lab hold. Electorate 69,489.
Turnout 49.22% May 2005: Lab 18,825 (62.49%). LD 5,765 (19.14%). C 3,927
(13.04%). UKIP 1,607 (5.33%). Turnout 45.86%. 69 BLACKPOOL NORTH & CLEVELEYS
Paul Maynard (C) 16,964 41.79 Penny Martin (Lab) 14,814 36.50 Bill Greene (LD)
5,400 13.30 Roy Hopwood (UKIP) 1,659 4.09 James Clayton (BNP) 1,556 3.83 Tony
Davies (Loony) 198 0.49 Maj. 2,150 5.30 C gain from Lab. Electorate 65,888.
Turnout 61.61% May 2005: Lab 17,470 (45.73%). C 14,229 (37.25%). LD 5,222
(13.67%). UKIP 1,278 (3.35%). Turnout 57.60%. 70 BLACKPOOL SOUTH +Gordon Marsden
(Lab) 14,448 41.06 Ron Bell (C) 12,597 35.80 Doreen Holt (LD) 5,082 14.44 Roy
Goodwin (BNP) 1,482 4.21 Hamish Howitt (UKIP) 1,352 3.84 Si Thu Tun (Integrity)
230 0.65 Maj. 1,851 5.26 Lab hold. Electorate 63,025. Turnout 55.84% May 2005:
Lab 16,232 (48.52%). C 10,321 (30.85%). LD 5,054 (15.11%). Others 1,113 (3.33%).
UKIP 731 (2.19%). Turnout 52.31%. 71 BLAENAU GWENT Nick Smith (Lab) 16,974 52.40
*Dai Davies (Blaenau Voice) 6,458 19.94 Matt Smith (LD) 3,285 10.14 Liz
Stevenson (C) 2,265 6.99 Rhodri Davies (PC) 1,333 4.11 Anthony King (BNP) 1,211
3.74 Mike Kocan (UKIP) 488 1.51 Alyson O'Connell (Soc Lab) 381 1.18 Maj. 10,516
32.46 Lab gain from Blaenau Voice. Swing to . Electorate 52,438. Turnout 61.78%
May 2005: Law Ind Law 20,505 (58.17%). Jones Lab 11,384 (32.29%). Thomas LD
1,511 (4.29%). Price PC 843 (2.39%). Lee C 816 (2.31%). Osborne UKIP 192
(0.54%). Turnout 66.14%. June 2006: Davies Ind Davies 12,543 (46.17%). Smith Lab
10,059 (37.03%). Lewis PC 1,755 (6.46%). Kitcher LD 1,477 (5.44%). Williams C
1,013 (3.73%). Hope Loony 318 (1.17%). Turnout 51.73%. 72 BLAYDON +Dave Anderson
(Lab) 22,297 49.64 Neil Bradbury (LD) 13,180 29.35 Glenn Hall (C) 7,159 15.94
Keith McFarlane (BNP) 2,277 5.07 Maj. 9,117 20.30 Lab hold. Electorate 67,808.
Turnout 66.24% May 2005: Lab 21,591 (51.63%). LD 15,843 (37.89%). C 3,356
(8.03%). UKIP 1,028 (2.46%). Turnout 62.22%. 73 BLYTH VALLEY *Ronnie Campbell
(Lab) 17,156 44.48 Jeffrey Reid (LD) 10,488 27.19 Barry Flux (C) 6,412 16.63
Steve Fairbairn (BNP) 1,699 4.41 James Condon (UKIP) 1,665 4.32 Barry Elliott
(Ind) 819 2.12 Allan White (Eng Dem) 327 0.85 Maj. 6,668 17.29 Lab hold. Swing
3.27 Lab to LD. Electorate 64,263. Turnout 60.01% May 2005: Campbell Lab 19,659
(54.95%). Reid LD 11,132 (31.12%). Windridge C 4,982 (13.93%). Turnout 56.21%.
74 BOGNOR REGIS & LITTLEHAMPTON +Nick Gibb (C) 24,087 51.41 Simon McDougall (LD)
11,024 23.53 Michael Jones (Lab) 6,580 14.04 Douglas Denny (UKIP) 3,036 6.48
Andrew Moffat (BNP) 1,890 4.03 Melissa Briggs (Ind) 235 0.50 Maj. 13,063 27.88 C
hold. Electorate 70,812. Turnout 66.16% May 2005: C 19,309 (45.15%). Lab 10,692
(25.00%). LD 9,357 (21.88%). UKIP 3,408 (7.97%). Turnout 63.17%. 75 BOLSOVER
+Dennis Skinner (Lab) 21,994 50.00 Lee Rowley (C) 10,812 24.58 Denise Hawksworth
(LD) 6,821 15.51 Martin Radford (BNP) 2,640 6.00 Ray Callaldine (UKIP) 1,721
3.91 Maj. 11,182 25.42 Lab hold. Electorate 72,766. Turnout 60.45% May 2005: Lab
26,331 (65.18%). LD 7,071 (17.50%). C 6,993 (17.31%). Turnout 56.14%. 76 BOLTON
NORTH EAST +David Crausby (Lab) 19,870 45.91 Deborah Dunleavy (C) 15,786 36.48
Paul Ankers (LD) 5,624 13.00 Neil Johnson (UKIP) 1,815 4.19 Norma Armston (You)
182 0.42 Maj. 4,084 9.44 Lab hold. Electorate 67,281. Turnout 64.32% May 2005:
Lab 17,486 (46.29%). C 12,959 (34.31%). LD 6,083 (16.10%). UKIP 662 (1.75%).
Others 582 (1.54%). Turnout 54.50%. 77 BOLTON SOUTH EAST Yasmin Qureshi (Lab)
18,782 47.42 Andy Morgan (C) 10,148 25.62 Donal O'Hanlon (LD) 6,289 15.88 Sheila
Spink (BNP) 2,012 5.08 Ian Sidaway (UKIP) 1,564 3.95 Alan Johnson (Green) 614
1.55 Navaid Syed (CPA) 195 0.49 Maj. 8,634 21.80 Lab hold. Electorate 69,928.
Turnout 56.64% May 2005: Lab 19,366 (55.71%). C 7,883 (22.68%). LD 6,298
(18.12%). UKIP 875 (2.52%). Others 343 (0.99%). Turnout 51.33%. 78 BOLTON WEST
Julie Hilling (Lab) 18,327 38.52 Susan Williams (C) 18,235 38.33 Jackie Pearcey
(LD) 8,177 17.19 Harry Lamb (UKIP) 1,901 4.00 Rachel Mann (Green) 545 1.15 Jimmy
Jones (Ind) 254 0.53 Doug Bagnall (You) 137 0.29 Maj. 92 0.19 Lab hold.
Electorate 71,250. Turnout 66.77% May 2005: Lab 19,137 (45.37%). C 14,096
(33.42%). LD 7,990 (18.94%). UKIP 597 (1.42%). Others 364 (0.86%). Turnout
61.24%. 79 BOOTLE +Joe Benton (Lab) 27,426 66.44 James Murray (LD) 6,245 15.13
Sohail Qureshi (C) 3,678 8.91 Paul Nuttall (UKIP) 2,514 6.09 Charles Stewart
(BNP) 942 2.28 Pete Glover (TUSC) 472 1.14 Maj. 21,181 51.31 Lab hold.
Electorate 71,426. Turnout 57.79% May 2005: Lab 26,243 (71.05%). LD 6,118
(16.56%). C 2,719 (7.36%). UKIP 1,202 (3.25%). Others 655 (1.77%). Turnout
50.77%. 80 BOSTON & SKEGNESS +Mark Simmonds (C) 21,325 49.45 Paul Kenny (Lab)
8,899 20.64 Philip Smith (LD) 6,371 14.77 Christopher Pain (UKIP) 4,081 9.46
David Owens (BNP) 2,278 5.28 Peter Wilson (Ind) 171 0.40 Maj. 12,426 28.81 C
hold. Electorate 70,529. Turnout 61.15% May 2005: C 19,991 (46.33%). Lab 13,600
(31.52%). UKIP 4,081 (9.46%). LD 4,034 (9.35%). Others 1,025 (2.38%). Green 420
(0.97%). Turnout 58.92%. 81 BOSWORTH +David Tredinnick (C) 23,132 42.62 Michael
Mullaney (LD) 18,100 33.35 Rory Palmer (Lab) 8,674 15.98 John Ryde (BNP) 2,458
4.53 Dutch Veldhuizen (UKIP) 1,098 2.02 James Lampitt (Eng Dem) 615 1.13 Michael
Brooks (Science) 197 0.36 Maj. 5,032 9.27 C hold. Electorate 77,296. Turnout
70.22% May 2005: C 21,210 (42.62%). Lab 15,875 (31.90%). LD 10,750 (21.60%).
UKIP 1,933 (3.88%). Turnout 65.65%. 82 BOURNEMOUTH EAST +Tobias Ellwood (C)
21,320 48.43 Lisa Northover (LD) 13,592 30.87 David Stokes (Lab) 5,836 13.26
David Hughes (UKIP) 3,027 6.88 Steven Humphrey (Ind) 249 0.57 Maj. 7,728 17.55 C
hold. Electorate 71,125. Turnout 61.90% May 2005: C 18,949 (45.29%). LD 13,075
(31.25%). Lab 7,761 (18.55%). UKIP 2,050 (4.90%). Turnout 58.96%. 83 BOURNEMOUTH
WEST Conor Burns (C) 18,808 45.15 Alasdair Murray (LD) 13,225 31.75 Sharon
Carr-Brown (Lab) 6,171 14.81 Philip Glover (UKIP) 2,999 7.20 Harvey Taylor (Ind)
456 1.09 Maj. 5,583 13.40 C hold. Electorate 71,753. Turnout 58.06% May 2005: C
14,476 (39.54%). LD 11,710 (31.98%). Lab 8,384 (22.90%). UKIP 2,043 (5.58%).
Turnout 53.88%. 84 BRACKNELL Phillip Lee (C) 27,327 52.41 Ray Earwicker (LD)
11,623 22.29 John Piasecki (Lab) 8,755 16.79 Murray Barter (UKIP) 2,297 4.41
Mark Burke (BNP) 1,253 2.40 David Young (Green) 825 1.58 Dan Haycocks (SMA) 60
0.12 Maj. 15,704 30.12 C hold. Electorate 76,885. Turnout 67.82% May 2005: C
22,789 (49.86%). Lab 12,752 (27.90%). LD 8,134 (17.80%). UKIP 1,622 (3.55%).
Others 407 (0.89%). Turnout 62.67%. 85 BRADFORD EAST David Ward (LD) 13,637
33.71 +Terry Rooney (Lab) 13,272 32.81 Mohammed Riaz (C) 10,860 26.84 Neville
Poynton (BNP) 1,854 4.58 Raja Hussain (Ind) 375 0.93 Peter Shields (Ind) 237
0.59 Gerry Robinson (NF) 222 0.55

Maj. 365 0.90 LD gain from Lab. Electorate 65,116. Turnout 62.13% May 2005: Lab
16,172 (44.06%). LD 10,945 (29.82%). C 6,392 (17.41%). Others 2,535 (6.91%).
Green 661 (1.80%). Turnout 54.12%. 86 BRADFORD SOUTH +Gerry Sutcliffe (Lab)
15,682 41.27 Matt Palmer (C) 11,060 29.11 Alun Griffiths (LD) 6,948 18.29 Sharon
Sutton (BNP) 2,651 6.98 Jamie Illingworth (UKIP) 1,339 3.52 James Lewthwaite (D
Nat) 315 0.83 Maj. 4,622 12.16 Lab hold. Electorate 63,580. Turnout 59.76% May
2005: Lab 17,009 (48.32%). C 8,565 (24.33%). LD 5,112 (14.52%). Others 3,283
(9.33%). Green 677 (1.92%). UKIP 552 (1.57%). Turnout 53.42%. 87 BRADFORD WEST
+Marsha Singh (Lab) 18,401 45.35 Zahid Iqbal (C) 12,638 31.15 David
Hall-Matthews (LD) 4,732 11.66 Jenny Sampson (BNP) 1,370 3.38 Arshad Ali
(Respect) 1,245 3.07 David Ford (Green) 940 2.32 Jason Smith (UKIP) 812 2.00
Neil Craig (D Nat) 438 1.08 Maj. 5,763 14.20 Lab hold. Electorate 62,519.
Turnout 64.90% May 2005: Lab 14,524 (39.70%). C 11,474 (31.36%). LD 6,967
(19.04%). Others 2,525 (6.90%). Green 1,093 (2.99%). Turnout 56.04%. 88
BRAINTREE +Brooks Newmark (C) 25,901 52.64 Bill Edwards (Lab) 9,780 19.88 Steve
Jarvis (LD) 9,247 18.79 Michael Ford (UKIP) 2,477 5.03 Paul Hooks (BNP) 1,080
2.19 Daisy Blench (Green) 718 1.46 Maj. 16,121 32.76 C hold. Electorate 71,162.
Turnout 69.14% May 2005: C 22,422 (49.94%). Lab 13,764 (30.66%). LD 6,100
(13.59%). Green 1,308 (2.91%). UKIP 1,076 (2.40%). Others 228 (0.51%). Turnout
64.22%. 89 BRECON & RADNORSHIRE *Roger Williams (LD) 17,929 46.16 Suzy Davies
(C) 14,182 36.51 Christopher Lloyd (Lab) 4,096 10.54 Janet Davies (PC) 989 2.55
Clive Easton (UKIP) 876 2.26 Dorienne Robinson (Green) 341 0.88 Jeffrey Green
(Ch P) 222 0.57 Lord Offa (Loony) 210 0.54 Maj. 3,747 9.65 LD hold. Swing 0.27
LD to C. Electorate 53,589. Turnout 72.49% May 2005: Williams LD 17,182
(44.81%). Davies C 13,277 (34.63%). Veale Lab 5,755 (15.01%). ap Gwynfor PC
1,404 (3.66%). Phillips UKIP 723 (1.89%). Turnout 69.49%. 90 BRENT CENTRAL
+Sarah Teather (LD) 20,026 44.18 +Dawn Butler (Lab) 18,681 41.22 Sachin Rajput
(C) 5,068 11.18 Shahar Ali (Green) 668 1.47 Errol Williams (Ch P) 488 1.08 Abdi
Duale (Respect) 230 0.51 Dean McCastree (Ind) 163 0.36 Maj. 1,345 2.97 LD gain
from Lab. Electorate 74,076. Turnout 61.19% May 2005: Lab 19,684 (50.13%). LD
12,215 (31.11%). C 5,142 (13.09%). Green 1,426 (3.63%). Others 800 (2.04%).
Turnout 55.49%. 91 BRENT NORTH +Barry Gardiner (Lab) 24,514 46.87 Harshadbhai
Patel (C) 16,486 31.52 James Allie (LD) 8,879 16.98 Atiq Malik (Ind) 734 1.40
Martin Francis (Green) 725 1.39 Sunita Webb (UKIP) 380 0.73 Jannen Vamadeva
(Ind) 333 0.64 Arvind Tailor (Eng Dem) 247 0.47 Maj. 8,028 15.35 Lab hold.
Electorate 83,896. Turnout 62.34% May 2005: Lab 21,751 (49.37%). C 12,921
(29.33%). LD 8,571 (19.46%). Others 811 (1.84%). Turnout 58.48%. 92 BRENTFORD &
ISLEWORTH Mary Macleod (C) 20,022 37.24 +Ann Keen (Lab) 18,064 33.60 Andrew
Dakers (LD) 12,718 23.65 Jason Hargreaves (UKIP) 863 1.61 John Hunt (Green) 787
1.46 Paul Winnet (BNP) 704 1.31 David Cunningham (Eng Dem) 230 0.43 Aamir Bhatti
(Ch P) 210 0.39 Evangeline Pillai (CPA) 99 0.18 Teresa Vanneck-Surplice (Ind) 68
0.13 Maj. 1,958 3.64 C gain from Lab. Electorate 83,546. Turnout 64.35% May
2005: Lab 17,092 (38.99%). C 13,459 (30.70%). LD 10,068 (22.97%). Others 1,641
(3.74%). Green 1,579 (3.60%). Turnout 52.83%. 93 BRENTWOOD & ONGAR +Eric Pickles
(C) 28,793 56.91 David Kendall (LD) 11,872 23.47 Heidi Benzing (Lab) 4,992 9.87
Michael McGough (UKIP) 2,037 4.03 Paul Morris (BNP) 1,447 2.86 Jess Barnecutt
(Green) 584 1.15 Robin Tilbrook (Eng Dem) 491 0.97 James Sapwell (Ind) 263 0.52
Danny Attfield (ND) 113 0.22 Maj. 16,921 33.45 C hold. Electorate 73,224.
Turnout 69.09% May 2005: C 24,865 (54.04%). LD 12,343 (26.82%). Lab 6,817
(14.81%). UKIP 1,836 (3.99%). Others 155 (0.34%). Turnout 67.92%. 94 BRIDGEND
+Madeleine Moon (Lab) 13,931 36.33 Helen Baker (C) 11,668 30.43 Wayne Morgan
(LD) 8,658 22.58 Nick Thomas (PC) 2,269 5.92 Brian Urch (BNP) 1,020 2.66 David
Fulton (UKIP) 801 2.09 Maj. 2,263 5.90 Lab hold. Electorate 58,700. Turnout
65.33% May 2005: Lab 14,621 (42.90%). C 8,532 (25.04%). LD 7,512 (22.04%). PC
2,350 (6.90%). Green 595 (1.75%). UKIP 469 (1.38%). Turnout 59.74%. 95
BRIDGWATER & SOMERSET WEST +Ian Liddell-Grainger (C) 24,675 45.28 Theo Butt
Philip (LD) 15,426 28.31 Kathryn Pearce (Lab) 9,332 17.13 Peter Hollings (UKIP)
2,604 4.78 Donna Treanor (BNP) 1,282 2.35 Charles Graham (Green) 859 1.58 Bob
Cudlipp (Ind) 315 0.58 Maj. 9,249 16.97 C hold. Electorate 76,560. Turnout
71.18% May 2005: C 23,140 (45.38%). Lab 13,059 (25.61%). LD 11,545 (22.64%).
UKIP 1,853 (3.63%). Green 1,391 (2.73%). Turnout 64.02%. 96 BRIGG & GOOLE Andrew
Percy (C) 19,680 44.86 +Ian Cawsey (Lab) 14,533 33.12 Richard Nixon (LD) 6,414
14.62 Nigel Wright (UKIP) 1,749 3.99 Stephen Ward (BNP) 1,498 3.41 Maj. 5,147
11.73 C gain from Lab. Electorate 67,345. Turnout 65.15% May 2005: Lab 18,795
(45.83%). C 15,578 (37.99%). LD 5,411 (13.19%). UKIP 1,226 (2.99%). Turnout
62.74%. 97 BRIGHTON KEMPTOWN Simon Kirby (C) 16,217 37.97 Simon Burgess (Lab
Co-op) 14,889 34.86 Juliet Williams (LD) 7,691 18.01 Ben Duncan (Green) 2,330
5.46 James Chamberlain-Webber (UKIP) 1,384 3.24 Dave Hill (TUSC) 194 0.45 Maj.
1,328 3.11 C gain from Lab. Electorate 66,017. Turnout 64.69% May 2005: Lab
14,939 (38.97%). C 13,086 (34.13%). LD 6,482 (16.91%). Green 2,506 (6.54%). UKIP
726 (1.89%). Others 599 (1.56%). Turnout 58.77%. 98 BRIGHTON PAVILION Dr
Caroline Lucas (Green) 16,238 31.33 Nancy Platts (Lab) 14,986 28.91 Charlotte
Vere (C) 12,275 23.68 Bernadette Millam (LD) 7,159 13.81 Nigel Carter (UKIP) 948
1.83 Ian Fyvie (Soc Lab) 148 0.29 Soraya Kara (R and E) 61 0.12 Leo Atreides
(ND) 19 0.04 Maj. 1,252 2.42 Green gain from Lab. Electorate 74,004. Turnout
70.04% May 2005: Lab 16,283 (36.39%). C 10,416 (23.28%). Green 9,804 (21.91%).
LD 7,174 (16.03%). UKIP 538 (1.20%). Others 526 (1.18%). Turnout 62.37%. 99
BRISTOL EAST +Kerry McCarthy (Lab) 16,471 36.59 Adeela Shafi (C) 12,749 28.32
Mike Popham (LD) 10,993 24.42 Brian Jenkins (BNP) 1,960 4.35 Philip Collins (
UKIP) 1,510 3.35 Glenn Vowles (Green) 803 1.78 Stephen Wright (Eng Dem) 347 0.77
Rae Lynch (TUSC) 184 0.41 Maj. 3,722 8.27 Lab hold. Electorate 69,448. Turnout
64.82% May 2005: Lab 19,236 (45.51%). C 11,901 (28.16%). LD 8,318 (19.68%).
Green 1,148 (2.72%). UKIP 1,131 (2.68%). Others 532 (1.26%). Turnout 63.05%. 100
BRISTOL NORTH WEST Charlotte Leslie (C) 19,115 37.97 Paul Harrod (LD) 15,841
31.47 Sam Townend (Lab) 13,059 25.94 Robert Upton (UKIP) 1,175 2.33 Ray Carr
(Eng Dem) 635 1.26 Alex Dunn (Green) 511 1.02 Maj. 3,274 6.50 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 73,469. Turnout 68.51% May 2005: Lab 18,649 (38.18%). C 15,868
(32.48%). LD 12,138 (24.85%). Others 1,393 (2.85%). UKIP 803 (1.64%). Turnout
68.78%. 101 BRISTOL SOUTH +Dawn Primarolo (Lab) 18,600 38.45 Mark Wright (LD)
13,866 28.66 Mark Lloyd Davies (C) 11,086 22.92 Colin Chidsey (BNP) 1,739 3.59
Colin McNamee (UKIP) 1,264 2.61 Charlie Bolton (Green) 1,216 2.51 Craig Clarke
(Eng Dem) 400 0.83 Tom Baldwin (TUSC) 206 0.43 Maj. 4,734 9.79 Lab hold.
Electorate 78,579. Turnout 61.56% May 2005: Lab 21,364 (48.59%). LD 10,436
(23.74%). C 8,623 (19.61%). Green 2,183 (4.97%). UKIP 1,361 (3.10%). Turnout
59.00%. 102 BRISTOL WEST +Stephen Williams (LD) 26,593 48.05 Paul Smith (Lab)
15,227 27.51 Nick Yarker (C) 10,169 18.37 Ricky Knight (Green) 2,090 3.78 Chris
Lees (UKIP) 655 1.18 Danny Kushlick (Ind) 343 0.62 Jon Baker (Eng Dem) 270 0.49
Maj. 11,366 20.54 LD hold. Electorate 82,728. Turnout 66.90% May 2005: LD 17,599
(39.06%). Lab 16,452 (36.51%). C 7,373 (16.36%). Green 2,545 (5.65%). UKIP 568
(1.26%). Others 519 (1.15%). Turnout 63.62%. 103 BROADLAND +Keith Simpson (C)
24,338 46.20 Daniel Roper (LD) 17,046 32.36 Allyson Barron (Lab) 7,287 13.83
Stuart Agnew (UKIP) 2,382 4.52 Edith Crowther (BNP) 871 1.65 Susan Curran
(Green) 752 1.43 Maj. 7,292 13.84 C hold. Electorate 73,168. Turnout 71.99% May
2005: C 20,442 (43.43%). LD 13,869 (29.47%). Lab 11,128 (23.64%). UKIP 1,627
(3.46%). Turnout 64.43%. 104 BROMLEY & CHISLEHURST +Bob Neill (C) 23,569 53.52
Sam Webber (LD) 9,669 21.96 Chris Kirby (Lab) 7,295 16.57 Emmett Jenner (UKIP)
1,451 3.29 Rowena Savage (BNP) 1,070 2.43 Roisin Robertson (Green) 607 1.38 Jon
Cheeseman (Eng Dem) 376 0.85 Maj. 13,900 31.56 C hold. Electorate 65,427.
Turnout 67.31% May 2005: C 18,024 (45.01%). Lab 9,788 (24.44%). LD 9,494
(23.71%). Green 1,470 (3.67%). UKIP 1,269 (3.17%). Turnout 62.68%. 105
BROMSGROVE Sajid Javid (C) 22,558 43.69 Sam Burden (Lab) 11,250 21.79 Philip
Ling (LD) 10,124 19.61 Steven Morson (UKIP) 2,950 5.71 Adrian Kriss (BIC) 2,182
4.23 Elizabeth Wainwright (BNP) 1,923 3.72 Mark France (Ind) 336 0.65 Ken
Wheatley (Ind) 307 0.59 Maj. 11,308 21.90 C hold. Swing 0.41 Lab to C.
Electorate 73,086. Turnout 70.64% May 2005: Kirkbride C 24,387 (51.01%). Jones
Lab 14,307 (29.92%). Haswell LD 7,197 (15.05%). Buckingham UKIP 1,919 (4.01%).
Turnout 67.56%. 106 BROXBOURNE *Charles Walker (C) 26,844 58.79 Michael Watson
(Lab) 8,040 17.61 Allan Witherick (LD) 6,107 13.38 Steve McCole (BNP) 2,159 4.73
Martin Harvey (UKIP) 1,890 4.14 Debbie LeMay (Eng Dem) 618 1.35 Maj. 18,804
41.18 C hold. Swing 6.43 Lab to C. Electorate 71,391. Turnout 63.95% May 2005:
Walker C 21,878 (53.85%). Bolden Lab 10,369 (25.52%). Porrer LD 4,973 (12.24%).
Emerson BNP 1,929 (4.75%). Harvey UKIP 1,479 (3.64%). Turnout 59.65%. 107
BROXTOWE Anna Soubry (C) 20,585 39.04 +Nick Palmer (Lab) 20,196 38.30 David
Watts (LD) 8,907 16.89 Mike Shore (BNP) 1,422 2.70 Chris Cobb (UKIP) 1,194 2.26
David Mitchell (Green) 423 0.80 Maj. 389 0.74 C gain from Lab. Electorate
72,042. Turnout 73.19% May 2005: Lab 20,089 (41.73%). C 17,950 (37.28%). LD
7,756 (16.11%). Green 896 (1.86%). Others 760 (1.58%). UKIP 695 (1.44%). Turnout
68.97%. 108 BUCKINGHAM +John Bercow (Speaker) 22,860 47.29 John Stevens (Ind)
10,331 21.37 Nigel Farage (UKIP) 8,401 17.38 Patrick Phillips (Ind) 2,394 4.95
Debbie Martin (Ind) 1,270 2.63 Lynne Mozar (BNP) 980 2.03 Colin Dale (Loony) 856
1.77 Geoff Howard (Ind) 435 0.90 David Hews (Ch P) 369 0.76 Anthony Watts (Ind)
332 0.69 Simon Strutt (Deficit) 107 0.22 Maj. 12,529 25.92 Speaker hold.
Electorate 74,996. Turnout 64.45% May 2005: C 28,781 (58.18%). Lab 10,065
(20.34%). LD 8,922 (18.03%). UKIP 1,705 (3.45%). Turnout 68.24%. 109 BURNLEY
Gordon Birtwistle (LD) 14,932 35.68 Julie Cooper (Lab) 13,114 31.34 Richard Ali
(C) 6,950 16.61 Sharon Wilkinson (BNP) 3,747 8.95 Andrew Brown (Ind) 1,876 4.48
John Wignall (UKIP) 929 2.22 Andrew Hennessey (Ind) 297 0.71 Maj. 1,818 4.34 LD
gain from Lab. Swing 9.58 Lab to LD. Electorate 66,616. Turnout 62.82% May 2005:
Ussher Lab 14,999 (38.48%). Birtwistle LD 9,221 (23.65%). Brooks Burnley 5,786
(14.84%). Miah C 4,206 (10.79%). Starr BNP 4,003 (10.27%). Slater Ind 392
(1.01%). McDowell UKIP 376 (0.96%). Turnout 59.18%. 110 BURTON Andrew Griffiths
(C) 22,188 44.53

Ruth Smeeth (Lab) 15,884 31.88 Michael Rodgers (LD) 7,891 15.84 Alan Hewitt
(BNP) 2,409 4.84 Philip Lancaster (UKIP) 1,451 2.91 Maj. 6,304 12.65 C gain from
Lab. Electorate 74,874. Turnout 66.54% May 2005: Lab 18,677 (42.10%). C 16,545
(37.29%). LD 5,538 (12.48%). Others 2,752 (6.20%). UKIP 856 (1.93%). Turnout
60.46%. 111 BURY NORTH David Nuttall (C) 18,070 40.19 Maryam Khan (Lab) 15,827
35.20 Richard Baum (LD) 7,645 17.00 John Maude (BNP) 1,825 4.06 Stephen Evans (
UKIP) 1,282 2.85 Bill Brison (Ind) 181 0.40 Graeme Lambert (Pirate) 131 0.29
Maj. 2,243 4.99 C gain from Lab. Electorate 66,759. Turnout 67.35% May 2005: Lab
17,064 (41.85%). C 15,005 (36.80%). LD 6,156 (15.10%). Others 2,115 (5.19%).
UKIP 438 (1.07%). Turnout 61.66%. 112 BURY SOUTH +Ivan Lewis (Lab) 19,508 40.42
Michelle Wiseman (C) 16,216 33.60 Vic D'Albert (LD) 8,796 18.22 Jean Purdy (BNP)
1,743 3.61 Paul Chadwick (UKIP) 1,017 2.11 Valerie Morris (Eng Dem) 494 1.02
George Heron (Green) 493 1.02 Maj. 3,292 6.82 Lab hold. Electorate 73,544.
Turnout 65.63% May 2005: Lab 21,807 (50.93%). C 12,028 (28.09%). LD 7,326
(17.11%). UKIP 1,097 (2.56%). Others 557 (1.30%). Turnout 58.49%. 113 BURY ST
EDMUNDS +David Ruffley (C) 27,899 47.51 David Chappell (LD) 15,519 26.43 Kevin
Hind (Lab) 9,776 16.65 John Howlett (UKIP) 3,003 5.11 Mark Ereira-Guyer (Green)
2,521 4.29 Maj. 12,380 21.08 C hold. Electorate 84,727. Turnout 69.30% May 2005:
C 24,549 (46.35%). Lab 14,469 (27.32%). LD 10,461 (19.75%). UKIP 1,873 (3.54%).
Green 1,607 (3.03%). Turnout 66.83%. 114 CAERPHILLY +Wayne David (Lab) 17,377
44.57 Maria Caulfield (C) 6,622 16.98 Lindsay Whittle (PC) 6,460 16.57 Kay David
(LD) 5,988 15.36 Laurence Reid (BNP) 1,635 4.19 Tony Jenkins (UKIP) 910 2.33
Maj. 10,755 27.58 Lab hold. Electorate 62,134. Turnout 62.75% May 2005: Lab
20,082 (55.44%). PC 6,565 (18.12%). C 5,334 (14.73%). LD 3,606 (9.96%). Others
636 (1.76%). Turnout 56.49%. 115 CAITHNESS, SUTHERLAND & EASTER ROSS *John
Thurso (LD) 11,907 41.39 John Mackay (Lab) 7,081 24.61 Jean Urquhart (SNP) 5,516
19.17 Alastair Graham (C) 3,744 13.01 Gordon Campbell (Ind) 520 1.81 Maj. 4,826
16.78 LD hold. Swing 6.38 LD to Lab. Electorate 47,257. Turnout 60.88% May 2005:
Thurso LD 13,957 (50.45%). Jamieson Lab 5,789 (20.93%). Shirron SNP 3,686
(13.32%). Ross C 2,835 (10.25%). Campbell Ind 848 (3.07%). Ivory SSP 548
(1.98%). Turnout 59.06%. 116 CALDER VALLEY Craig Whittaker (C) 20,397 39.39
Steph Booth (Lab) 13,966 26.97 Hilary Myers (LD) 13,037 25.18 John Gregory (BNP)
1,823 3.52 Greg Burrows (UKIP) 1,173 2.27 Kate Sweeny (Green) 858 1.66 Tim Cole
(Ind) 194 0.37 Barry Greenwood (Ind) 175 0.34 Paul Rogan (Eng Dem) 157 0.30 Maj.
6,431 12.42 C gain from Lab. Electorate 76,903. Turnout 67.33% May 2005: Lab
18,347 (38.50%). C 17,044 (35.76%). LD 9,007 (18.90%). Others 1,887 (3.96%).
Green 1,371 (2.88%). Turnout 66.03%. 117 CAMBERWELL & PECKHAM +Harriet Harman
(Lab) 27,619 59.19 Columba Blango (LD) 10,432 22.36 Andy Stranack (C) 6,080
13.03 Jenny Jones (Green) 1,361 2.92 Yohara Robby Munilla (Eng Dem) 435 0.93
Joshua Ogunleye (WRP) 211 0.45 Margaret Sharkey (Soc Lab) 184 0.39 Decima
Francis (Ind) 93 0.20 Steven Robbins (Ind) 87 0.19 Patricia Knox (ND) 82 0.18
Jill Mountford (Workers Lib) 75 0.16 Maj. 17,187 36.84 Lab hold. Electorate
78,618. Turnout 59.35% May 2005: Lab 24,529 (63.26%). LD 7,921 (20.43%). C 3,842
(9.91%). Green 1,796 (4.63%). UKIP 440 (1.13%). Others 245 (0.63%). Turnout
52.00%. 118 CAMBORNE & REDRUTH George Eustice (C) 15,969 37.58 +Julia
Goldsworthy (LD) 15,903 37.42 Jude Robinson (Lab) 6,945 16.34 Derek Elliott (
UKIP) 2,152 5.06 Loveday Jenkin (Meb Ker) 775 1.82 Euan McPhee (Green) 581 1.37
Robert Hawkins (Soc Lab) 168 0.40 Maj. 66 0.16 C gain from LD. Electorate
63,968. Turnout 66.43% May 2005: LD 13,830 (35.85%). Lab 11,097 (28.77%). C
9,874 (25.60%). Others 1,943 (5.04%). UKIP 1,833 (4.75%). Turnout 63.20%. 119
CAMBRIDGE Julian Huppert (LD) 19,621 39.14 Nick Hillman (C) 12,829 25.59 Daniel
Zeichner (Lab) 12,174 24.28 Tony Juniper (Green) 3,804 7.59 Peter Burkinshaw (
UKIP) 1,195 2.38 Martin Booth (TUSC) 362 0.72 Holborn Old (Ind) 145 0.29 Maj.
6,792 13.55 LD hold. Electorate 77,081. Turnout 65.04% May 2005: LD 21,278
(44.76%). Lab 15,444 (32.49%). C 8,200 (17.25%). Green 1,355 (2.85%). UKIP 660
(1.39%). Others 597 (1.26%). Turnout 58.98%. 120 CAMBRIDGESHIRE NORTH EAST
Stephen Barclay (C) 26,862 51.40 Lorna Spenceley (LD) 10,437 19.97 Peter Roberts
(Lab) 9,274 17.74 Robin Talbot (UKIP) 2,991 5.72 Susan Clapp (BNP) 1,747 3.34
Debra Jordan (Ind) 566 1.08 Graham Murphy (Eng Dem) 387 0.74 Maj. 16,425 31.43 C
hold. Electorate 73,224. Turnout 71.38% May 2005: C 22,249 (46.93%). Lab 14,523
(30.64%). LD 8,096 (17.08%). UKIP 2,538 (5.35%). Turnout 59.14%. 121
CAMBRIDGESHIRE NORTH WEST +Shailesh Vara (C) 29,425 50.49 Kevin Wilkins (LD)
12,748 21.87 Chris York (Lab) 9,877 16.95 Robert Brown (UKIP) 4,826 8.28 Stephen
Goldspink (Eng Dem) 1,407 2.41 Maj. 16,677 28.61 C hold. Electorate 88,857.
Turnout 65.59% May 2005: C 24,491 (46.22%). Lab 13,566 (25.60%). LD 12,128
(22.89%). UKIP 2,805 (5.29%). Turnout 63.31%. 122 CAMBRIDGESHIRE SOUTH +Andrew
Lansley (C) 27,995 47.40 Sebastian Kindersley (LD) 20,157 34.13 Tariq Sadiq
(Lab) 6,024 10.20 Robin Page (Ind) 1,968 3.33 Helene Davies-Green (UKIP) 1,873
3.17 Simon Saggers (Green) 1,039 1.76 Maj. 7,838 13.27 C hold. Electorate
78,995. Turnout 74.76% May 2005: C 24,621 (46.50%). LD 14,987 (28.31%). Lab
10,429 (19.70%). UKIP 1,467 (2.77%). Green 1,442 (2.72%). Turnout 68.15%. 123
CAMBRIDGESHIRE SOUTH EAST +Jim Paice (C) 27,629 47.97 Jonathan Chatfield (LD)
21,683 37.64 John Cowan (Lab) 4,380 7.60 Andy Monk (UKIP) 2,138 3.71 Simon
Sedgwick-Jell (Green) 766 1.33 Geoffrey Woollard (Ind) 517 0.90 Daniel Bell
(CPA) 489 0.85 Maj. 5,946 10.32 C hold. Electorate 83,068. Turnout 69.34% May
2005: C 24,422 (47.15%). LD 16,312 (31.49%). Lab 11,065 (21.36%). Turnout
64.25%. 124 CANNOCK CHASE Aidan Burley (C) 18,271 40.10 Susan Woodward (Lab)
15,076 33.09 Jon Hunt (LD) 7,732 16.97 Terence Majorowicz (BNP) 2,168 4.76
Malcolm McKenzie (UKIP) 1,580 3.47 Ron Turville (Ind) 380 0.83 Royston Jenkins
(Snouts) 259 0.57 Mike Walters (Ind) 93 0.20 Maj. 3,195 7.01 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 74,509. Turnout 61.15% May 2005: Lab 21,187 (50.98%). C 12,461
(29.99%). LD 5,820 (14.01%). UKIP 2,088 (5.02%). Turnout 57.43%. 125 CANTERBURY
+Julian Brazier (C) 22,050 44.81 Guy Voizey (LD) 16,002 32.52 Jean Samuel (Lab)
7,940 16.14 Howard Farmer (UKIP) 1,907 3.88 Geoff Meaden (Green) 1,137 2.31 Anne
Belsey (MRP) 173 0.35 Maj. 6,048 12.29 C hold. Electorate 76,808. Turnout 64.07%
May 2005: C 20,590 (44.49%). Lab 13,011 (28.11%). LD 9,935 (21.46%). Green 1,521
(3.29%). UKIP 902 (1.95%). Others 326 (0.70%). Turnout 66.41%. 126 CARDIFF
CENTRAL *Jenny Willott (LD) 14,976 41.43 Jenny Rathbone (Lab) 10,400 28.77 Karen
Robson (C) 7,799 21.57 Chris Williams (PC) 1,246 3.45 Susan Davies (UKIP) 765
2.12 Sam Coates (Green) 575 1.59 Ross Saunders (TUSC) 162 0.45 Mark Beech
(Loony) 142 0.39 Alun Mathias (Ind) 86 0.24 Maj. 4,576 12.66 LD hold. Swing 1.41
LD to Lab. Electorate 61,162. Turnout 59.11% May 2005: Willott LD 17,991
(49.79%). Jones Lab Coop 12,398 (34.31%). Mohindra C 3,339 (9.24%). Grigg PC
1,271 (3.52%). Raiz Respect 386 (1.07%). Hughes UKIP 383 (1.06%). Savoury Ind
168 (0.46%). Beany Bean 159 (0.44%). Taylor-Dawson Vote Dream 37 (0.10%).
Turnout 59.23%. 127 CARDIFF NORTH Jonathan Evans (C) 17,860 37.50 *Julie Morgan
(Lab) 17,666 37.09 John Dixon (LD) 8,724 18.32 Llywelyn Rhys (PC) 1,588 3.33
Lawrence Gwynn (UKIP) 1,130 2.37 Christopher von Ruhland (Green) 362 0.76 Derek
Thomson (Ch P) 300 0.63 Maj. 194 0.41 C gain from Lab. Swing 1.47 Lab to C.
Electorate 65,553. Turnout 72.66% May 2005: Morgan Lab 17,707 (39.04%). Morgan C
16,561 (36.51%). Dixon LD 8,483 (18.70%). Rowlands PC 1,936 (4.27%). Hulston
UKIP 534 (1.18%). Hobbs FWP 138 (0.30%). Taylor-Dawson Vote Dream 1 (0.00%).
Turnout 70.50%. 128 CARDIFF SOUTH & PENARTH +Alun Michael (Lab Co-op) 17,263
38.91 Simon Hoare (C) 12,553 28.29 Dominic Hannigan (LD) 9,875 22.26 Farida
Aslam (PC) 1,851 4.17 Simon Zeigler (UKIP) 1,145 2.58 George Burke (Ind) 648
1.46 Matt Townsend (Green) 554 1.25 Clive Bate (Ch P) 285 0.64 Robert Griffiths
(Comm) 196 0.44 Maj. 4,710 10.62 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 73,704. Turnout
60.20% May 2005: Lab 18,402 (46.60%). C 9,447 (23.92%). LD 7,824 (19.81%). PC
2,071 (5.24%). Green 729 (1.85%). UKIP 562 (1.42%). Others 452 (1.14%). Turnout
58.19%. 129 CARDIFF WEST +Kevin Brennan (Lab) 16,893 41.25 Angela Jones-Evans
(C) 12,143 29.65 Rachael Hitchinson (LD) 7,186 17.55 Mohammed Sarul Islam (PC)
2,868 7.00 Mike Henessey (UKIP) 1,117 2.73 Jake Griffiths (Green) 750 1.83 Maj.
4,750 11.60 Lab hold. Electorate 62,787. Turnout 65.23% May 2005: Lab 16,859
(44.86%). C 8,498 (22.61%). LD 6,392 (17.01%). PC 4,855 (12.92%). UKIP 807
(2.15%). Others 167 (0.44%). Turnout 58.18%. 130 CARLISLE John Stevenson (C)
16,589 39.31 Michael Boaden (Lab) 15,736 37.29 Neil Hughes (LD) 6,567 15.56 Paul
Stafford (BNP) 1,086 2.57 Michael Owen (UKIP) 969 2.30 John Reardon (Green) 614
1.45 John Metcalfe (TUSC) 376 0.89 Peter Howe (ND) 263 0.62 Maj. 853 2.02 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 65,263. Turnout 64.66% May 2005: Lab 17,701 (46.84%). C
12,616 (33.38%). LD 6,257 (16.56%). UKIP 874 (2.31%). Others 343 (0.91%).
Turnout 58.55%. 131 CARMARTHEN EAST & DINEFWR Jonathan Edwards (PC) 13,546 35.64
Christine Gwyther (Lab) 10,065 26.48 Andrew Morgan (C) 8,506 22.38 Bill Powell
(LD) 4,609 12.13 John Atkinson (UKIP) 1,285 3.38 Maj. 3,481 9.16 PC hold.
Electorate 52,385. Turnout 72.56% May 2005: PC 17,124 (45.85%). Lab 10,573
(28.31%). C 5,105 (13.67%). LD 3,626 (9.71%). UKIP 644 (1.72%). Others 272
(0.73%). Turnout 70.81%. 132 CARMARTHEN WEST & PEMBROKESHIRE SOUTH Simon Hart
(C) 16,649 41.10 +Nick Ainger (Lab) 13,226 32.65 John Gossage (LD) 4,890 12.07
John Dixon (PC) 4,232 10.45 Ray Clarke (UKIP) 1,146 2.83 Henry Langen (Ind) 364
0.90 Maj. 3,423 8.45 C gain from Lab. Electorate 57,519. Turnout 70.42% May
2005: Lab 14,090 (36.67%). C 12,047 (31.35%). PC 5,960 (15.51%). LD 5,435
(14.14%). UKIP 556 (1.45%). Others 341 (0.89%). Turnout 67.25%. 133 CARSHALTON &
WALLINGTON +Tom Brake (LD) 22,180 48.30 Dr Ken Andrew (C) 16,920 36.85 Shafi
Khan (Lab) 4,015 8.74 Frank Day (UKIP) 1,348 2.94 Charlotte Lewis (BNP) 1,100
2.40 George Dow (Green) 355 0.77 Maj. 5,260 11.46 LD hold. Electorate 66,520.
Turnout 69.03% May 2005: LD 16,870 (40.39%). C 15,645 (37.46%). Lab 7,234
(17.32%). UKIP 1,111 (2.66%). Green 908 (2.17%). Turnout 64.27%. 134 CASTLE
POINT Rebecca Harris (C) 19,806 43.99 *Bob Spink (Green Belt) 12,174 27.04
Julian Ware-Lane (Lab) 6,609 14.68 Brendan D'Cruz (LD) 4,232 9.40 Philip Howell
(BNP) 2,205 4.90

Maj. 7,632 16.95 C gain from Ind. Swing to . Electorate 67,284. Turnout 66.92%
May 2005: Spink C 22,118 (48.29%). Akehurst Lab 13,917 (30.39%). Sandbach LD
4,719 (10.30%). Hamper UKIP 3,431 (7.49%). Willis Green 1,617 (3.53%). Turnout
65.92%. 135 CEREDIGION +Mark Williams (LD) 19,139 50.03 Penri James (PC) 10,815
28.27 Luke Evetts (C) 4,421 11.56 Richard Boudier (Lab) 2,210 5.78 Elwyn
Williams (UKIP) 977 2.55 Leila Kiersch (Green) 696 1.82 Maj. 8,324 21.76 LD
hold. Electorate 59,043. Turnout 64.80% May 2005: LD 13,045 (36.52%). PC 12,827
(35.91%). C 4,426 (12.39%). Lab 4,309 (12.06%). Green 841 (2.35%). Others 268
(0.75%). Turnout 68.01%. 136 CHARNWOOD +Stephen Dorrell (C) 26,560 49.61 Robin
Webber-Jones (LD) 11,531 21.54 Eric Goodyer (Lab) 10,536 19.68 Cathy Duffy (BNP)
3,116 5.82 Miles Storier (UKIP) 1,799 3.36 Maj. 15,029 28.07 C hold. Electorate
74,473. Turnout 71.89% May 2005: C 22,230 (46.58%). Lab 13,617 (28.53%). LD
8,739 (18.31%). Others 1,737 (3.64%). UKIP 1,404 (2.94%). Turnout 66.28%. 137
CHATHAM & AYLESFORD Tracey Crouch (C) 20,230 46.18 +Jonathan Shaw (Lab) 14,161
32.33 John McClintock (LD) 5,832 13.31 Colin McCarthy-Stewart (BNP) 1,365 3.12
Steve Newton (UKIP) 1,314 3.00 Sean Varnham (Eng Dem) 400 0.91 Dave Arthur
(Green) 396 0.90 Maureen Smith (Ch P) 109 0.25 Maj. 6,069 13.85 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 71,122. Turnout 61.59% May 2005: Lab 17,960 (45.05%). C 14,671
(36.80%). LD 5,388 (13.52%). UKIP 1,178 (2.95%). Others 668 (1.68%). Turnout
60.64%. 138 CHEADLE +Mark Hunter (LD) 24,717 47.07 Ben Jeffreys (C) 21,445 40.84
Martin Miller (Lab) 4,920 9.37 Tony Moore (UKIP) 1,430 2.72 Maj. 3,272 6.23 LD
hold. Electorate 72,458. Turnout 72.47% May 2005: LD 23,671 (47.76%). C 19,999
(40.35%). Lab 4,889 (9.86%). UKIP 584 (1.18%). Others 421 (0.85%). Turnout
68.74%. 139 CHELMSFORD +Simon Burns (C) 25,207 46.17 Stephen Robinson (LD)
20,097 36.81 Peter Dixon (Lab) 5,980 10.95 Ken Wedon (UKIP) 1,527 2.80 Mike
Bateman (BNP) 899 1.65 Angela Thomson (Green) 476 0.87 Claire Breed (Eng Dem)
254 0.47 Ben Sherman (Beer) 153 0.28 Maj. 5,110 9.36 C hold. Electorate 77,529.
Turnout 70.42% May 2005: C 18,686 (39.46%). LD 14,328 (30.26%). Lab 12,749
(26.92%). UKIP 1,590 (3.36%). Turnout 61.13%. 140 CHELSEA & FULHAM +Greg Hands
(C) 24,093 60.45 Alexander Hilton (Lab) 7,371 18.49 Dirk Hazell (LD) 6,473 16.24
Julia Stephenson (Green) 671 1.68 Timothy Gittos (UKIP) 478 1.20 Brian McDonald
(BNP) 388 0.97 Roland Courtenay (Ind CCF) 196 0.49 George Roseman (Eng Dem) 169
0.42 Godfrey Spickernell (Blue) 17 0.04 Maj. 16,722 41.96 C hold. Electorate
66,295. Turnout 60.12% May 2005: C 19,003 (55.22%). Lab 8,750 (25.42%). LD 4,831
(14.04%). Green 1,443 (4.19%). UKIP 388 (1.13%). Turnout 52.59%. 141 CHELTENHAM
+Martin Horwood (LD) 26,659 50.50 Mark Coote (C) 21,739 41.18 James Green (Lab)
2,703 5.12 Peter Bowman (UKIP) 1,192 2.26 Dancing Ken Hanks (Loony) 493 0.93
Maj. 4,920 9.32 LD hold. Electorate 78,998. Turnout 66.82% May 2005: LD 18,877
(39.41%). C 18,561 (38.75%). Lab 5,652 (11.80%). Others 3,176 (6.63%). Green
1,030 (2.15%). UKIP 608 (1.27%). Turnout 62.45%. 142 CHESHAM & AMERSHAM +Cheryl
Gillan (C) 31,658 60.37 Tim Starkey (LD) 14,948 28.50 Anthony Gajadharsingh
(Lab) 2,942 5.61 Alan Stevens (UKIP) 2,129 4.06 Nick Wilkins (Green) 767 1.46
Maj. 16,710 31.86 C hold. Electorate 70,333. Turnout 74.57% May 2005: C 25,427
(53.52%). LD 12,453 (26.21%). Lab 6,479 (13.64%). Green 1,656 (3.49%). UKIP
1,496 (3.15%). Turnout 66.75%. 143 CHESTER, CITY OF Stephen Mosley (C) 18,995
40.60 +Christine Russell (Lab) 16,412 35.08 Elizabeth Jewkes (LD) 8,930 19.09
Allan Weddell (UKIP) 1,225 2.62 Ed Abrams (Eng Dem) 594 1.27 Tom Barker (Green)
535 1.14 John Whittingham (Ind) 99 0.21 Maj. 2,583 5.52 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 68,874. Turnout 67.94% May 2005: Lab 17,263 (38.98%). C 16,290
(36.79%). LD 9,657 (21.81%). UKIP 766 (1.73%). Others 308 (0.70%). Turnout
64.31%. 144 CHESTERFIELD Toby Perkins (Lab) 17,891 39.03 +Paul Holmes (LD)
17,342 37.83 Carolyn Abbott (C) 7,214 15.74 David Phillips (UKIP) 1,432 3.12 Ian
Jerram (Eng Dem) 1,213 2.65 Duncan Kerr (Green) 600 1.31 John Noneoftheabove
Daramy (Ind) 147 0.32 Maj. 549 1.20 Lab gain from LD. Electorate 71,878. Turnout
63.77% May 2005: LD 20,190 (46.96%). Lab 17,457 (40.61%). C 3,554 (8.27%). UKIP
977 (2.27%). Others 814 (1.89%). Turnout 59.95%. 145 CHICHESTER +Andrew Tyrie
(C) 31,427 55.34 Martin Lury (LD) 15,550 27.38 Simon Holland (Lab) 5,937 10.45
Andrew Moncrieff (UKIP) 3,873 6.82 Maj. 15,877 27.96 C hold. Electorate 81,462.
Turnout 69.71% May 2005: C 24,693 (47.99%). LD 14,236 (27.67%). Lab 9,553
(18.57%). UKIP 2,973 (5.78%). Turnout 65.19%. 146 CHINGFORD & WOODFORD GREEN
*Iain Duncan Smith (C) 22,743 52.76 Cath Arakelian (Lab) 9,780 22.69 Geoffrey
Seeff (LD) 7,242 16.80 Julian Leppert (BNP) 1,288 2.99 Nick Jones (UKIP) 1,133
2.63 Lucy Craig (Green) 650 1.51 None of The Above (Ind) 202 0.47 Barry White
(Ind) 68 0.16 Maj. 12,963 30.07 C hold. Swing 1.27 Lab to C. Electorate 64,831.
Turnout 66.49% May 2005: Duncan Smith C 20,555 (53.19%). Wright Lab 9,914
(25.65%). Beanse LD 6,832 (17.68%). McGough UKIP 1,078 (2.79%). White Ind 269
(0.70%). Turnout 62.96%. 147 CHIPPENHAM Duncan Hames (LD) 23,970 45.76 Wilfred
Emmanuel-Jones (C) 21,500 41.04 Greg Lovell (Lab) 3,620 6.91 Julia Reid (UKIP)
1,783 3.40 Michael Simpkins (BNP) 641 1.22 Samantha Fletcher (Green) 446 0.85
John Maguire (Eng Dem) 307 0.59 Richard Sexton (Ch P) 118 0.23 Maj. 2,470 4.72
LD hold. Electorate 72,105. Turnout 72.65% May 2005: LD 19,704 (42.42%). C
17,521 (37.72%). Lab 7,801 (16.80%). UKIP 1,419 (3.06%). Turnout 66.88%. 148
CHIPPING BARNET +Theresa Villiers (C) 24,700 48.81 Damien Welfare (Lab) 12,773
25.24 Stephen Barber (LD) 10,202 20.16 James Fluss (UKIP) 1,442 2.85 Kate
Tansley (Green) 1,021 2.02 Philip Clayton (Ind) 470 0.93 Maj. 11,927 23.57 C
hold. Electorate 77,798. Turnout 65.05% May 2005: C 20,825 (45.86%). Lab 15,368
(33.84%). LD 6,941 (15.29%). Green 1,273 (2.80%). UKIP 942 (2.07%). Others 59
(0.13%). Turnout 62.71%. 149 CHORLEY *Lindsay Hoyle (Lab) 21,515 43.23 Alan
Cullens (C) 18,922 38.02 Stephen Fenn (LD) 6,957 13.98 Nick Hogan (UKIP) 2,021
4.06 Chris Curtis (Ind) 359 0.72 Maj. 2,593 5.21 Lab hold. Electorate 70,950.
Turnout 70.15% May 2005: Lab 22,568 (50.84%). C 15,283 (34.43%). LD 6,537
(14.73%). Turnout 62.11%. 150 CHRISTCHURCH +Christopher Chope (C) 27,888 56.44
Martyn Hurll (LD) 12,478 25.25 Robert Deeks (Lab) 4,849 9.81 David Williams (
UKIP) 4,201 8.50 Maj. 15,410 31.18 C hold. Electorate 68,861. Turnout 71.76% May
2005: C 25,886 (55.30%). LD 11,246 (24.03%). Lab 7,297 (15.59%). UKIP 2,378
(5.08%). Turnout 70.35%. 151 CITIES OF LONDON & WESTMINSTER Mark Field (C)
19,264 52.16 David Rowntree (Lab) 8,188 22.17 Naomi Smith (LD) 7,574 20.51 Dr
Derek Chase (Green) 778 2.11 Paul Weston (UKIP) 664 1.80 Frank Roseman (Eng Dem)
191 0.52 Dennis Delderfield (Ind) 98 0.27 Jack Nunn (Pirate) 90 0.24 Mad Cap'n
Tom (Ind) 84 0.23 Maj. 11,076 29.99 C hold. Electorate 66,489. Turnout 55.54%
May 2005: C 15,449 (48.25%). Lab 8,097 (25.29%). LD 5,934 (18.53%). Green 1,373
(4.29%). Others 813 (2.54%). UKIP 353 (1.10%). Turnout 51.15%. 152 CLACTON
+Douglas Carswell (C) 22,867 53.03 Ivan Henderson (Lab) 10,799 25.04 Michael
Green (LD) 5,577 12.93 Jim Taylor (BNP) 1,975 4.58 Terry Allen (Tendring) 1,078
2.50 Chris Southall (Green) 535 1.24 Christopher Humphrey (Ind) 292 0.68 Maj.
12,068 27.99 C hold. Electorate 67,194. Turnout 64.18% May 2005: C 18,971
(44.45%). Lab 15,342 (35.95%). LD 5,776 (13.53%). UKIP 1,957 (4.59%). Others 631
(1.48%). Turnout 62.54%. 153 CLEETHORPES Martin Vickers (C) 18,939 42.12 *Shona
McIsaac (Lab) 14,641 32.56 Malcolm Morland (LD) 8,192 18.22 Stephen Harness (
UKIP) 3,194 7.10 Maj. 4,298 9.56 C gain from Lab. Swing 7.81 Lab to C.
Electorate 70,214. Turnout 64.04% May 2005: McIsaac Lab 18,889 (43.33%). Vickers
C 16,247 (37.27%). Lowis LD 6,437 (14.77%). Hardie UKIP 2,016 (4.63%). Turnout
61.61%. 154 CLWYD SOUTH Susan Elan Jones (Lab) 13,311 38.38 John Bell (C) 10,477
30.21 Bruce Roberts (LD) 5,965 17.20 Janet Ryder (PC) 3,009 8.68 Sarah Hynes
(BNP) 1,100 3.17 Nick Powell (UKIP) 819 2.36 Maj. 2,834 8.17 Lab hold.
Electorate 53,748. Turnout 64.53% May 2005: Lab 14,172 (45.21%). C 7,952
(25.37%). LD 4,853 (15.48%). PC 2,958 (9.44%). Others 803 (2.56%). UKIP 612
(1.95%). Turnout 61.23%. 155 CLWYD WEST +David Jones (C) 15,833 41.54 Donna
Hutton (Lab) 9,414 24.70 Llyr Huws Gruffydd (PC) 5,864 15.39 Michele Jones (LD)
5,801 15.22 Warwick Nicholson (UKIP) 864 2.27 David Griffiths (Ch P) 239 0.63
Joe Blakesley (Ind) 96 0.25 Maj. 6,419 16.84 C hold. Electorate 57,913. Turnout
65.81% May 2005: C 13,021 (36.12%). Lab 12,970 (35.98%). LD 4,801 (13.32%). PC
3,912 (10.85%). Others 820 (2.27%). UKIP 523 (1.45%). Turnout 65.09%. 156
COATBRIDGE, CHRYSTON & BELLSHILL *Tom Clarke (Lab) 27,728 66.60 Frances
McGlinchey (SNP) 7,014 16.85 Kenneth Elder (LD) 3,519 8.45 Fiona Houston (C)
3,374 8.10 Maj. 20,714 49.75 Lab hold. Swing 0.58 Lab to SNP. Electorate 70,067.
Turnout 59.42% May 2005: Clarke Lab 24,725 (64.48%). Ross SNP 5,206 (13.58%).
Ackland LD 4,605 (12.01%). Paterson C 2,775 (7.24%). Kinloch SSP 1,033 (2.69%).
Turnout 56.90%. 157 COLCHESTER +Bob Russell (LD) 22,151 48.01 Will Quince (C)
15,169 32.88 Jordan Newell (Lab) 5,680 12.31 John Pitts (UKIP) 1,350 2.93 Sidney
Chaney (BNP) 705 1.53 Peter Lynn (Green) 694 1.50 Eddie Bone (Eng Dem) 335 0.73
Garryck Noble (PP Essex) 35 0.08 Paul Shaw (ND) 20 0.04 Maj. 6,982 15.13 LD
hold. Electorate 74,062. Turnout 62.30% May 2005: LD 19,517 (47.68%). C 13,129
(32.07%). Lab 8,291 (20.25%). Turnout 56.54%. 158 COLNE VALLEY Jason McCartney
(C) 20,440 36.96 Nicola Turner (LD) 15,603 28.22 Debbie Abrahams (Lab) 14,589
26.38 Barry Fowler (BNP) 1,893 3.42 Melanie Roberts (UKIP) 1,163 2.10 Chas Ball
(Green) 867 1.57 Dr Jackie Grunsell (TUSC) 741 1.34 Maj. 4,837 8.75 C gain from
Lab. Electorate 80,062. Turnout 69.07% May 2005: Lab 17,862 (35.42%). C 16,595
(32.91%). LD 12,370 (24.53%). Others 2,232 (4.43%). Green 1,371 (2.72%). Turnout
65.27%. 159 CONGLETON Fiona Bruce (C) 23,250 45.79 Peter Hirst (LD) 16,187 31.88
David Bryant (Lab) 8,747 17.23 Lee Slaughter (UKIP) 2,147 4.23 Paul Edwards
(Ind) 276 0.54 Paul Rothwell (ND) 94 0.19 Adam Parton (Ind) 79 0.16 Maj. 7,063
13.91 C hold. Swing 2.30 C to LD. Electorate 73,692. Turnout 68.91% May 2005:
Winterton C 21,189 (45.39%). Milton Lab 12,943 (27.73%). Key LD 12,550 (26.88%).
Turnout 64.15%. 160 COPELAND +Jamie Reed (Lab) 19,699 46.04 Christopher
Whiteside (C) 15,866 37.08 Frank Hollowell (LD) 4,365 10.20 Clive Jefferson
(BNP) 1,474 3.44 Ted Caley-Knowles (UKIP) 994 2.32 Jill Perry (Green) 389 0.91
Maj. 3,833 8.96 Lab hold. Electorate 63,291. Turnout 67.60%

May 2005: Lab 18,198 (46.71%). C 13,041 (33.47%). LD 5,432 (13.94%). Others
1,396 (3.58%). UKIP 891 (2.29%). Turnout 62.20%. 161 CORBY Louise Bagshawe (C)
22,886 42.20 *Phil Hope (Lab) 20,991 38.70 Portia Wilson (LD) 7,834 14.44 Roy
Davies (BNP) 2,525 4.66 Maj. 1,895 3.49 C gain from Lab. Swing 3.31 Lab to C.
Electorate 78,305. Turnout 69.26% May 2005: Hope Lab Co-op 20,913 (43.10%).
Griffith C 19,396 (39.97%). Radcliffe LD 6,184 (12.74%). Gillman UKIP 1,278
(2.63%). Carey Soc Lab 499 (1.03%). Morris Ind 257 (0.53%). Turnout 66.48%. 162
CORNWALL NORTH +Dan Rogerson (LD) 22,512 48.06 Sian Flynn (C) 19,531 41.69
Miriel O'Connor (UKIP) 2,300 4.91 Janet Hulme (Lab) 1,971 4.21 Joanie Willett
(Meb Ker) 530 1.13 Maj. 2,981 6.36 LD hold. Electorate 68,662. Turnout 68.22%
May 2005: LD 17,812 (42.31%). C 14,920 (35.44%). Lab 5,272 (12.52%). UKIP 2,419
(5.75%). Others 1,675 (3.98%). Turnout 64.51%. 163 CORNWALL SOUTH EAST Sheryll
Murray (C) 22,390 45.13 Karen Gillard (LD) 19,170 38.64 Michael Sparling (Lab)
3,507 7.07 Stephanie McWilliam (UKIP) 3,083 6.21 Roger Creagh-Osborne (Green)
826 1.66 Roger Holmes (Meb Ker) 641 1.29 Maj. 3,220 6.49 C gain from LD.
Electorate 72,237. Turnout 68.69% May 2005: LD 21,795 (46.78%). C 16,310
(35.01%). Lab 4,873 (10.46%). UKIP 2,380 (5.11%). Others 1,228 (2.64%). Turnout
67.66%. 164 COTSWOLDS, THE +Geoffrey Clifton-Brown (C) 29,075 53.03 Mike Collins
(LD) 16,211 29.56 Mark Dempsey (Lab) 5,886 10.73 Adrian Blake (UKIP) 2,292 4.18
Kevin Lister (Green) 940 1.71 Alex Steel (Ind) 428 0.78 Maj. 12,864 23.46 C
hold. Electorate 76,728. Turnout 71.46% May 2005: C 24,907 (49.37%). LD 14,165
(28.08%). Lab 9,392 (18.62%). UKIP 1,595 (3.16%). Others 392 (0.78%). Turnout
67.24%. 165 COVENTRY NORTH EAST +Bob Ainsworth (Lab) 21,384 49.29 Hazel Noonan
(C) 9,609 22.15 Russell Field (LD) 7,210 16.62 Tom Gower (BNP) 1,863 4.29 Dave
Nellist (Soc Alt) 1,592 3.67 Chris Forbes (UKIP) 1,291 2.98 Ron Lebar (Ch M) 434
1.00 Maj. 11,775 27.14 Lab hold. Electorate 73,035. Turnout 59.40% May 2005: Lab
21,859 (56.93%). C 7,238 (18.85%). LD 6,352 (16.54%). Others 1,874 (4.88%). UKIP
1,076 (2.80%). Turnout 53.37%. 166 COVENTRY NORTH WEST +Geoffrey Robinson (Lab)
19,936 42.82 Gary Ridley (C) 13,648 29.31 Vincent McKee (LD) 8,344 17.92 Edward
Sheppard (BNP) 1,666 3.58 Mark Nattrass (UKIP) 1,295 2.78 John Clarke (Ind) 640
1.37 Justin Wood (Green) 497 1.07 Nikki Downes (Soc Alt) 370 0.79 William Sidhu
(Ch M) 164 0.35 Maj. 6,288 13.51 Lab hold. Electorate 72,871. Turnout 63.89% May
2005: Lab 20,084 (48.00%). C 11,150 (26.65%). LD 7,702 (18.41%). Others 2,171
(5.19%). UKIP 737 (1.76%). Turnout 60.10%. 167 COVENTRY SOUTH +Jim Cunningham
(Lab) 19,197 41.80 Kevin Foster (C) 15,352 33.43 Brian Patton (LD) 8,278 18.03
Mark Taylor (UKIP) 1,767 3.85 Judy Griffiths (Soc Alt) 691 1.50 Stephen Gray
(Green) 639 1.39 Maj. 3,845 8.37 Lab hold. Electorate 73,652. Turnout 62.35% May
2005: Lab 18,826 (45.83%). C 12,589 (30.65%). LD 7,229 (17.60%). Others 1,585
(3.86%). UKIP 846 (2.06%). Turnout 59.31%. 168 CRAWLEY Henry Smith (C) 21,264
44.76 Chris Oxlade (Lab) 15,336 32.28 John Vincent (LD) 6,844 14.41 Richard
Trower (BNP) 1,672 3.52 Chris French (UKIP) 1,382 2.91 Phil Smith (Green) 598
1.26 Arshad Khan (JP) 265 0.56 Andrew Hubner (Ind) 143 0.30 Maj. 5,928 12.48 C
gain from Lab. Swing 6.28 Lab to C. Electorate 72,781. Turnout 65.27% May 2005:
Moffatt Lab 16,411 (39.10%). Smith C 16,374 (39.01%). Sheard LD 6,503 (15.49%).
Trower BNP 1,277 (3.04%). Walters UKIP 935 (2.23%). Burnham Dem Soc All 263
(0.63%). Khan JP 210 (0.50%). Turnout 58.37%. 169 CREWE & NANTWICH +Edward
Timpson (C) 23,420 45.85 David Williams (Lab) 17,374 34.01 Roy Wood (LD) 7,656
14.99 James Clutton (UKIP) 1,414 2.77 Phil Williams (BNP) 1,043 2.04 Mike
Parsons (Ind) 177 0.35 Maj. 6,046 11.84 C gain from Lab. Electorate 77,460.
Turnout 65.95% May 2005: Lab 21,860 (48.42%). C 14,861 (32.92%). LD 8,421
(18.65%). Turnout 59.90%. 170 CROYDON CENTRAL Gavin Barwell (C) 19,657 39.51
Gerry Ryan (Lab Co-op) 16,688 33.54 Peter Lambell (LD) 6,553 13.17 +Andrew
Pelling (Ind) 3,239 6.51 Cliff Le May (BNP) 1,448 2.91 Ralph Atkinson (UKIP) 997
2.00 Bernice Golberg (Green) 581 1.17 James Gitau (Ch P) 264 0.53 John
Cartwright (Loony) 192 0.39 Michael Castle (Ind) 138 0.28 Maj. 2,969 5.97 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 78,880. Turnout 63.08% May 2005: Lab 18,745 (41.11%). C
18,417 (40.40%). LD 5,835 (12.80%). Green 1,009 (2.21%). UKIP 988 (2.17%).
Others 598 (1.31%). Turnout 60.11%. 171 CROYDON NORTH +Malcolm Wicks (Lab)
28,949 56.02 Jason Hadden (C) 12,466 24.12 Gerry Jerome (LD) 7,226 13.98 Shasha
Khan (Green) 1,017 1.97 Jonathan Serter (UKIP) 891 1.72 Novlette Williams (Ch P)
586 1.13 Mohommad Shaikh (Respect) 272 0.53 Ben Stevenson (Comm) 160 0.31
Mohamed Seyed (Ind) 111 0.21 Maj. 16,483 31.90 Lab hold. Electorate 85,212.
Turnout 60.65% May 2005: Lab 24,251 (53.62%). C 10,066 (22.26%). LD 7,788
(17.22%). Green 1,275 (2.82%). Others 1,047 (2.32%). UKIP 798 (1.76%). Turnout
52.69%. 172 CROYDON SOUTH +Richard Ottaway (C) 28,684 50.93 Simon Rix (LD)
12,866 22.84 Jane Avis (Lab) 11,287 20.04 Jeffrey Bolter (UKIP) 2,504 4.45
Gordon Ross (Green) 981 1.74 Maj. 15,818 28.08 C hold. Electorate 81,301.
Turnout 69.28% May 2005: C 26,478 (52.01%). Lab 12,250 (24.06%). LD 10,400
(20.43%). UKIP 1,104 (2.17%). Others 682 (1.34%). Turnout 63.44%. 173
CUMBERNAULD, KILSYTH & KIRKINTILLOCH EAST Gregg McClymont (Lab) 23,549 57.23
Julie Hepburn (SNP) 9,794 23.80 Rod Ackland (LD) 3,924 9.54 Stephanie Fraser (C)
3,407 8.28 William O'Neill (SSP) 476 1.16 Maj. 13,755 33.43 Lab hold. Swing 1.92
SNP to Lab. Electorate 64,037. Turnout 64.26% May 2005: McKenna Lab 20,251
(51.81%). Hepburn SNP 8,689 (22.23%). O'Donnell LD 5,817 (14.88%). Boswell C
2,718 (6.95%). O'Neill SSP 1,141 (2.92%). Elliott OCV 472 (1.21%). Turnout
60.37%. 174 CYNON VALLEY +Ann Clwyd (Lab) 15,681 52.49 Dafydd Trystan Davies
(PC) 6,064 20.30 Lee Thacker (LD) 4,120 13.79 Juliette Ash (C) 3,010 10.07 Frank
Hughes (UKIP) 1,001 3.35 Maj. 9,617 32.19 Lab hold. Electorate 50,656. Turnout
58.98% May 2005: Lab 18,329 (63.03%). PC 3,939 (13.55%). LD 3,547 (12.20%). C
2,498 (8.59%). UKIP 767 (2.64%). Turnout 60.24%. 175 DAGENHAM & RAINHAM +Jon
Cruddas (Lab) 17,813 40.27 Simon Jones (C) 15,183 34.33 Michael Barnbrook (BNP)
4,952 11.20 Joseph Bourke (LD) 3,806 8.60 Craig Litwin (UKIP) 1,569 3.55 Gordon
Kennedy (Ind) 308 0.70 Paula Watson (Ch P) 305 0.69 Debbie Rosaman (Green) 296
0.67 Maj. 2,630 5.95 Lab hold. Electorate 69,764. Turnout 63.40% May 2005: Lab
19,964 (49.17%). C 13,592 (33.47%). LD 3,676 (9.05%). Others 1,789 (4.41%). UKIP
1,585 (3.90%). Turnout 56.79%. 176 DARLINGTON Jenny Chapman (Lab) 16,891 39.38
Edward Legard (C) 13,503 31.48 Mike Barker (LD) 10,046 23.42 Amanda Foster (BNP)
1,262 2.94 Charlotte Bull (UKIP) 1,194 2.78 Maj. 3,388 7.90 Lab hold. Electorate
69,352. Turnout 61.85% May 2005: Lab 20,811 (52.29%). C 10,394 (26.12%). LD
7,346 (18.46%). UKIP 737 (1.85%). Others 509 (1.28%). Turnout 59.43%. 177
DARTFORD Gareth Johnson (C) 24,428 48.78 John Adams (Lab) 13,800 27.56 James
Willis (LD) 7,361 14.70 Gary Rogers (Eng Dem) 2,178 4.35 Richard Palmer (UKIP)
1,842 3.68 Stephane Tindame (Ind) 264 0.53 John Crockford (FDP) 207 0.41 Maj.
10,628 21.22 C gain from Lab. Electorate 76,271. Turnout 65.66% May 2005: Lab
19,518 (43.05%). C 18,658 (41.15%). LD 4,581 (10.10%). UKIP 1,361 (3.00%).
Others 1,224 (2.70%). Turnout 63.25%. 178 DAVENTRY Chris Heaton-Harris (C)
29,252 56.50 Christopher McGlynn (LD) 10,064 19.44 Paul Corazzo (Lab) 8,168
15.78 Jim Broomfield (UKIP) 2,333 4.51 Alan Bennett-Spencer (Eng Dem) 1,187 2.29
Steve Whiffen (Green) 770 1.49 Maj. 19,188 37.06 C hold. Electorate 71,451.
Turnout 72.46% May 2005: C 24,809 (52.99%). Lab 13,033 (27.84%). LD 6,797
(14.52%). UKIP 1,357 (2.90%). Others 822 (1.76%). Turnout 67.88%. 179 DELYN
*David Hanson (Lab) 15,083 40.78 Antoinette Sandbach (C) 12,811 34.64 Bill
Brereton (LD) 5,747 15.54 Peter Ryder (PC) 1,844 4.99 Jennifer Matthys (BNP) 844
2.28 Andrew Haigh (UKIP) 655 1.77 Maj. 2,272 6.14 Lab hold. Swing 6.70 Lab to C.
Electorate 53,470. Turnout 69.17% May 2005: Hanson Lab 15,540 (45.70%). Bell C
8,896 (26.16%). Jones LD 6,089 (17.91%). Thomas PC 2,524 (7.42%). Crawford UKIP
533 (1.57%). Williams Ind 422 (1.24%). Turnout 64.44%. 180 DENTON & REDDISH
+Andrew Gwynne (Lab) 19,191 50.99 Julie Searle (C) 9,360 24.87 Stephen
Broadhurst (LD) 6,727 17.87 William Robinson (UKIP) 2,060 5.47 Jeff Dennis (Ind)
297 0.79 Maj. 9,831 26.12 Lab hold. Electorate 64,765. Turnout 58.11% May 2005:
Lab 19,595 (57.64%). C 6,467 (19.02%). LD 5,541 (16.30%). Others 1,326 (3.90%).
UKIP 1,065 (3.13%). Turnout 52.54%. 181 DERBY NORTH Chris Williamson (Lab)
14,896 33.04 Stephen Mold (C) 14,283 31.68 Lucy Care (LD) 12,638 28.03 Peter
Cheeseman (BNP) 2,000 4.44 Elizabeth Ransome (UKIP) 829 1.84 David Gale (Ind)
264 0.59 David Geraghty (Pirate) 170 0.38 Maj. 613 1.36 Lab hold. Electorate
71,484. Turnout 63.06% May 2005: Lab 16,420 (42.07%). LD 10,729 (27.49%). C
10,120 (25.93%). Others 958 (2.45%). UKIP 805 (2.06%). Turnout 62.50%. 182 DERBY
SOUTH +Margaret Beckett (Lab) 17,851 43.34 Jack Perschke (C) 11,729 28.48 David
Batey (LD) 8,430 20.47 Stephen Fowke (UKIP) 1,821 4.42 Alan Graves (Ind) 1,357
3.29 Maj. 6,122 14.86 Lab hold. Electorate 71,012. Turnout 58.00% May 2005: Lab
21,370 (53.16%). LD 9,715 (24.17%). C 7,946 (19.77%). Others 608 (1.51%). UKIP
562 (1.40%). Turnout 64.68%. 183 DERBYSHIRE DALES +Patrick McLoughlin (C) 24,378
52.11 Joe Naitta (LD) 10,512 22.47 Colin Swindell (Lab) 9,061 19.37 Ian Guiver (
UKIP) 1,779 3.80 Josh Stockell (Green) 772 1.65 Nick The Flying Brick Delves
(Loony) 228 0.49 Amila Y'mech (Humanity) 50 0.11 Maj. 13,866 29.64 C hold.
Electorate 63,367. Turnout 73.82% May 2005: C 19,684 (46.51%). Lab 10,874
(25.69%). LD 10,308 (24.35%). UKIP 1,049 (2.48%). Others 410 (0.97%). Turnout
67.55%. 184 DERBYSHIRE MID Pauline Latham (C) 22,877 48.32 Hardyal Dhindsa (Lab)
11,585 24.47 Sally McIntosh (LD) 9,711 20.51 Lewis Allsebrook (BNP) 1,698 3.59
Anthony Kay (UKIP) 1,252 2.64 RU Seerius (Loony) 219 0.46 Maj. 11,292 23.85 C
hold. Electorate 66,297. Turnout 71.41% May 2005: C 20,050 (47.17%). Lab 14,721
(34.64%). LD 6,809 (16.02%). UKIP 923 (2.17%). Turnout 66.54%. 185 DERBYSHIRE
NORTH EAST +Natascha Engel (Lab) 17,948 38.16 Huw Merriman (C) 15,503 32.96
Richard Bull (LD) 10,947 23.27 James Bush (UKIP) 2,636 5.60 Maj. 2,445 5.20 Lab
hold. Electorate 71,422. Turnout 65.85% May 2005: Lab 20,675 (48.24%). C 11,111
(25.92%). LD 9,206 (21.48%). UKIP 1,871 (4.37%). Turnout 61.15%. 186 DERBYSHIRE
SOUTH Heather Wheeler (C) 22,935 45.49 Michael Edwards (Lab) 15,807 31.35

Alexis Diouf (LD) 8,012 15.89 Peter Jarvis (BNP) 2,193 4.35 Charles Swabey (UKIP
) 1,206 2.39 Paul Liversuch (Soc Lab) 266 0.53 Maj. 7,128 14.14 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 70,610. Turnout 71.40% May 2005: Lab 19,146 (42.87%). C 16,710
(37.41%). LD 5,738 (12.85%). Others 3,069 (6.87%). Turnout 66.86%. 187 DEVIZES
Claire Perry (C) 25,519 55.07 Fiona Hornby (LD) 12,514 27.00 Jurab Ali (Lab)
4,711 10.17 Patricia Bryant (UKIP) 2,076 4.48 Mark Fletcher (Green) 813 1.75
Martin Houlden (Ind) 566 1.22 Nic Coombe (Libertarian) 141 0.30 Maj. 13,005
28.06 C hold. Electorate 67,374. Turnout 68.78% May 2005: C 21,849 (51.03%). Lab
9,590 (22.40%). LD 9,549 (22.30%). UKIP 1,825 (4.26%). Turnout 65.30%. 188 DEVON
CENTRAL Mel Stride (C) 27,737 51.49 Philip Hutty (LD) 18,507 34.35 Moira
Macdonald (Lab) 3,715 6.90 Bob Edwards (UKIP) 2,870 5.33 Colin Mathews (Green)
1,044 1.94 Maj. 9,230 17.13 C hold. Electorate 71,204. Turnout 75.66% May 2005:
C 20,517 (43.76%). LD 18,179 (38.78%). Lab 5,429 (11.58%). UKIP 2,755 (5.88%).
Turnout 69.84%. 189 DEVON EAST +Hugo Swire (C) 25,662 48.33 Paull Robathan (LD)
16,548 31.17 Gareth Manson (Lab) 5,721 10.78 Mike Amor (UKIP) 4,346 8.19 Sharon
Pavey (Green) 815 1.54 Maj. 9,114 17.17 C hold. Electorate 73,109. Turnout
72.62% May 2005: C 22,535 (47.27%). LD 13,367 (28.04%). Lab 8,691 (18.23%). UKIP
2,679 (5.62%). Others 400 (0.84%). Turnout 68.00%. 190 DEVON NORTH +Nick Harvey
(LD) 24,305 47.36 Philip Milton (C) 18,484 36.02 Stephen Crowther (UKIP) 3,720
7.25 Mark Cann (Lab) 2,671 5.20 L'Anne Knight (Green) 697 1.36 Gary Marshall
(BNP) 614 1.20 Rodney Cann (Ind) 588 1.15 Nigel Vidler (Eng Dem) 146 0.28
Gerrard Sables (Comm Brit) 96 0.19 Maj. 5,821 11.34 LD hold. Electorate 74,508.
Turnout 68.88% May 2005: LD 22,869 (46.42%). C 17,593 (35.71%). Lab 4,379
(8.89%). UKIP 2,601 (5.28%). Green 1,826 (3.71%). Turnout 68.27%. 191 DEVON
SOUTH WEST +Gary Streeter (C) 27,908 55.97 Anna Pascoe (LD) 12,034 24.14 Luke
Pollard (Lab) 6,193 12.42 Hugh Williams (UKIP) 3,084 6.19 Vaughan Brean (Green)
641 1.29 Maj. 15,874 31.84 C hold. Electorate 70,059. Turnout 71.17% May 2005: C
20,831 (44.39%). Lab 11,389 (24.27%). LD 11,179 (23.82%). UKIP 3,532 (7.53%).
Turnout 68.22%. 192 DEVON WEST & TORRIDGE +Geoffrey Cox (C) 25,230 45.66 Adam
Symons (LD) 22,273 40.31 Robin Julian (UKIP) 3,021 5.47 Darren Jones (Lab) 2,917
5.28 Cathrine Simmons (Green) 1,050 1.90 Nick Baker (BNP) 766 1.39 Maj. 2,957
5.35 C hold. Electorate 76,574. Turnout 72.16% May 2005: C 21,520 (42.27%). LD
18,788 (36.91%). Lab 5,363 (10.54%). UKIP 3,232 (6.35%). Green 2,003 (3.93%).
Turnout 71.25%. 193 DEWSBURY Simon Reevell (C) 18,898 34.99 +Shahid Malik (Lab)
17,372 32.17 Andrew Hutchinson (LD) 9,150 16.94 Khizar Iqbal (Ind) 3,813 7.06
Roger Roberts (BNP) 3,265 6.05 Adrian Cruden (Green) 849 1.57 Michael Felse (Eng
Dem) 661 1.22 Maj. 1,526 2.83 C gain from Lab. Electorate 78,901. Turnout 68.45%
May 2005: Lab 18,278 (40.59%). C 14,279 (31.71%). LD 6,187 (13.74%). Others
5,379 (11.94%). Green 913 (2.03%). Turnout 59.28%. 194 DON VALLEY +Caroline
Flint (Lab) 16,472 37.93 Matthew Stephens (C) 12,877 29.65 Edward Simpson (LD)
7,422 17.09 Erwin Toseland (BNP) 2,112 4.86 William Shaw (UKIP) 1,904 4.38
Bernie Aston (Eng Dem) 1,756 4.04 Martin Williams (Ind) 887 2.04 Maj. 3,595 8.28
Lab hold. Electorate 73,214. Turnout 59.32% May 2005: Lab 21,674 (56.52%). C
10,341 (26.97%). LD 6,330 (16.51%). Turnout 53.35%. 195 DONCASTER CENTRAL +Rosie
Winterton (Lab) 16,569 39.69 Gareth Davies (C) 10,340 24.77 Patrick Wilson (LD)
8,795 21.07 Lawrence Parramore (Eng Dem) 1,816 4.35 John Bettney (BNP) 1,762
4.22 Michael Andrews (UKIP) 1,421 3.40 Scott Pickles (Ind) 970 2.32 Derek
Williams (R and E) 72 0.17 Maj. 6,229 14.92 Lab hold. Electorate 75,207. Turnout
55.51% May 2005: Lab 19,265 (51.00%). LD 8,940 (23.67%). C 7,040 (18.64%). UKIP
1,290 (3.42%). Others 1,239 (3.28%). Turnout 52.04%. 196 DONCASTER NORTH +Ed
Miliband (Lab) 19,637 47.34 Sophie Brodie (C) 8,728 21.04 Edward Sanderson (LD)
6,174 14.88 Pamela Chambers (BNP) 2,818 6.79 Wayne Crawshaw (Eng Dem) 2,148 5.18
Liz Andrews (UKIP) 1,797 4.33 Bill Rawcliffe (TUSC) 181 0.44 Maj. 10,909 26.30
Lab hold. Electorate 72,381. Turnout 57.31% May 2005: Lab 19,300 (51.11%). C
7,273 (19.26%). LD 5,919 (15.67%). Others 4,432 (11.74%). UKIP 841 (2.23%).
Turnout 52.63%. 197 DORSET MID & POOLE NORTH +Annette Brooke (LD) 21,100 45.10
Nick King (C) 20,831 44.52 Darren Brown (Lab) 2,748 5.87 Dave Evans (UKIP) 2,109
4.51 Maj. 269 0.57 LD hold. Electorate 72,647. Turnout 64.40% May 2005: LD
22,596 (49.97%). C 16,665 (36.85%). Lab 4,547 (10.06%). UKIP 1,412 (3.12%).
Turnout 72.09%. 198 DORSET NORTH +Bob Walter (C) 27,640 51.05 Emily Gasson (LD)
20,015 36.97 Mike Bunney (Lab) 2,910 5.37 Jeremy Nieboer (UKIP) 2,812 5.19 Anna
Hayball (Green) 546 1.01 Roger Monksummers (Loony) 218 0.40 Maj. 7,625 14.08 C
hold. Electorate 73,698. Turnout 73.46% May 2005: C 22,721 (46.41%). LD 18,521
(37.83%). Lab 4,709 (9.62%). UKIP 1,888 (3.86%). Green 1,117 (2.28%). Turnout
69.31%. 199 DORSET SOUTH Richard Drax (C) 22,667 45.05 *Jim Knight (Lab) 15,224
30.26 Ros Kayes (LD) 9,557 19.00 Mike Hobson (UKIP) 2,034 4.04 Brian Heatley
(Green) 595 1.18 Andy Kirkwood (YP) 233 0.46 Maj. 7,443 14.79 C gain from Lab.
Swing 9.26 Lab to C. Electorate 73,838. Turnout 68.14% May 2005: Knight Lab
20,231 (41.64%). Matts C 18,419 (37.91%). Oakes LD 7,647 (15.74%). Chalker UKIP
1,571 (3.23%). Hamilton LCA 282 (0.58%). Parkes Respect 219 (0.45%). Kirkwood
PRTYP 107 (0.22%). Bex Wessex Reg 83 (0.17%). Marchesi Soc Lab 25 (0.05%).
Turnout 68.75%. 200 DORSET WEST *Oliver Letwin (C) 27,287 47.59 Sue Farrant (LD)
23,364 40.75 Dr Steve Bick (Lab) 3,815 6.65 Oliver Chisholm (UKIP) 2,196 3.83
Susan Greene (Green) 675 1.18 Maj. 3,923 6.84 C hold. Swing 1.11 LD to C.
Electorate 76,869. Turnout 74.59% May 2005: Letwin C 24,763 (46.53%). McGuinness
LD 22,302 (41.90%). Roberts Lab 4,124 (7.75%). Guest UKIP 1,084 (2.04%). Greene
Green 952 (1.79%). Turnout 76.29%. 201 DOVER Charlie Elphicke (C) 22,174 44.01
+Gwyn Prosser (Lab) 16,900 33.54 John Brigden (LD) 7,962 15.80 Victor Matcham (
UKIP) 1,747 3.47 Dennis Whiting (BNP) 1,104 2.19 Michael Walters (Eng Dem) 216
0.43 David Clark (CPA) 200 0.40 George Lee-Delisle (Ind) 82 0.16 Maj. 5,274
10.47 C gain from Lab. Electorate 71,832. Turnout 70.14% May 2005: Lab 21,833
(45.35%). C 16,828 (34.95%). LD 7,605 (15.80%). UKIP 1,273 (2.64%). Others 606
(1.26%). Turnout 67.32%. 204 DUDLEY NORTH +Ian Austin (Lab) 14,923 38.66 Graeme
Brown (C) 14,274 36.98 Mike Beckett (LD) 4,066 10.53 Malcolm Davis (UKIP) 3,267
8.46 Ken Griffiths (BNP) 1,899 4.92 Kevin Inman (NF) 173 0.45 Maj. 649 1.68 Lab
hold. Electorate 60,838. Turnout 63.45% May 2005: Lab 15,682 (42.56%). C 11,576
(31.42%). Others 4,022 (10.92%). LD 3,868 (10.50%). UKIP 1,697 (4.61%). Turnout
61.27%. 205 DUDLEY SOUTH Chris Kelly (C) 16,450 43.10 Rachel Harris (Lab) 12,594
33.00 Jonathan Bramall (LD) 5,989 15.69 Philip Rowe (UKIP) 3,132 8.21 Maj. 3,856
10.10 C gain from Lab. Electorate 60,572. Turnout 63.01% May 2005: Lab 15,896
(43.96%). C 12,674 (35.05%). LD 4,587 (12.68%). Others 1,841 (5.09%). UKIP 1,165
(3.22%). Turnout 60.23%. 206 DULWICH & WEST NORWOOD +Tessa Jowell (Lab) 22,461
46.59 Jonathan Mitchell (LD) 13,096 27.16 Kemi Adegoke (C) 10,684 22.16 Shane
Collins (Green) 1,266 2.63 Elizabeth Jones (UKIP) 707 1.47 Maj. 9,365 19.42 Lab
hold. Electorate 72,817. Turnout 66.21% May 2005: Lab 17,590 (44.24%). C 9,737
(24.49%). LD 9,199 (23.14%). Green 2,498 (6.28%). Others 447 (1.12%). UKIP 285
(0.72%). Turnout 56.89%. 207 DUMFRIES & GALLOWAY *Russell Brown (Lab) 23,950
45.90 Peter Duncan (C) 16,501 31.63 Andrew Wood (SNP) 6,419 12.30 Richard Brodie
(LD) 4,608 8.83 William Wright (UKIP) 695 1.33 Maj. 7,449 14.28 Lab hold. Swing
4.27 C to Lab. Electorate 74,581. Turnout 69.95% May 2005: Brown Lab 20,924
(41.12%). Duncan C 18,002 (35.37%). Henderson SNP 6,182 (12.15%). Legg LD 4,259
(8.37%). Schofield Green 745 (1.46%). Dennis SSP 497 (0.98%). Smith OCV 282
(0.55%). Turnout 68.52%. 208 DUMFRIESSHIRE, CLYDESDALE & TWEEDDALE *David
Mundell (C) 17,457 38.04 Claudia Beamish (Lab) 13,263 28.90 Catriona Bhatia (LD)
9,080 19.79 Aileen Orr (SNP) 4,945 10.78 Steven McKeane (UKIP) 637 1.39 Alis
Ballance (Green) 510 1.11 Maj. 4,194 9.14 C hold. Swing 2.62 Lab to C.
Electorate 66,627. Turnout 68.88% May 2005: Mundell C 16,141 (36.18%). Marshall
Lab 14,403 (32.28%). Kenton LD 9,046 (20.28%). Wood SNP 4,075 (9.13%). MacTavish
SSP 521 (1.17%). Lee UKIP 430 (0.96%). Turnout 67.55%. 209 DUNBARTONSHIRE EAST
*Jo Swinson (LD) 18,551 38.69 Mary Galbraith (Lab) 16,367 34.13 Mark Nolan (C)
7,431 15.50 Iain White (SNP) 5,054 10.54 James Beeley (UKIP) 545 1.14 Maj. 2,184
4.55 LD hold. Swing 2.07 LD to Lab. Electorate 63,795. Turnout 75.16% May 2005:
Swinson LD 19,533 (41.81%). Lyons Lab 15,472 (33.11%). Jack C 7,708 (16.50%).
Sagan SNP 2,716 (5.81%). Callison Green 876 (1.87%). Page SSP 419 (0.90%).
Turnout 72.15%. 210 DUNBARTONSHIRE WEST Gemma Doyle (Lab) 25,905 61.29 Graeme
McCormick (SNP) 8,497 20.10 Helen Watt (LD) 3,434 8.12 Martyn McIntyre (C) 3,242
7.67 Mitch Sorbie (UKIP) 683 1.62 Katharine McGavigan (Soc Lab) 505 1.19 Maj.
17,408 41.19 Lab hold. Swing 5.50 SNP to Lab. Electorate 66,085. Turnout 63.96%
May 2005: McFall Lab Co-op 21,600 (51.94%). Chalmers SNP 9,047 (21.75%). Walker
LD 5,999 (14.42%). Murdoch C 2,679 (6.44%). Robertson SSP 1,708 (4.11%). Maher
UKIP 354 (0.85%). Dawson OCV 202 (0.49%). Turnout 61.34%. 211 DUNDEE EAST
*Stewart Hosie (SNP) 15,350 37.84 Katrina Murray (Lab) 13,529 33.35 Chris Bustin
(C) 6,177 15.23 Clive Sneddon (LD) 4,285 10.56 Shiona Baird (Green) 542 1.34
Mike Arthur (UKIP) 431 1.06 Angela Gorrie (SSP) 254 0.63 Maj. 1,821 4.49 SNP
hold. Swing 1.76 Lab to SNP. Electorate 65,471. Turnout 61.96% May 2005: Hosie
SNP 14,708 (37.20%). Luke Lab 14,325 (36.23%). Bustin C 5,061 (12.80%). Sneddon
LD 4,498 (11.38%). Duke SSP 537 (1.36%). Low UKIP 292 (0.74%). Allison Ind 119
(0.30%). Turnout 62.43%. 212 DUNDEE WEST *Jim McGovern (Lab) 17,994 48.47 Jim
Barrie (SNP) 10,716 28.86 John Barnett (LD) 4,233 11.40 Colin Stewart (C) 3,461
9.32 Andy McBride (Ind) 365 0.98 Jim McFarlane (TUSC) 357 0.96 Maj. 7,278 19.60
Lab hold. Swing 2.52 SNP to Lab. Electorate 63,013. Turnout 58.92% May 2005:
McGovern Lab 16,468 (44.59%). Fitzpatrick SNP 11,089 (30.02%). Garry LD 5,323
(14.41%). McKinlay C 3,062 (8.29%). McFarlane SSP 994 (2.69%). Turnout 56.09%.
21 3 DUNFERMLINE & FIFE WEST Thomas Docherty (Lab) 22,639 46.25 *Willie Rennie
(LD) 17,169 35.08

Joe McCall (SNP) 5,201 10.63 Belinda Hacking (C) 3,305 6.75 Otto Inglis (UKIP)
633 1.29 Maj. 5,470 11.18 Lab gain from LD. Swing 8.05 Lab to LD. Electorate
73,769. Turnout 66.35% May 2005: Squire Lab 20,111 (47.44%). Herbert LD 8,549
(20.17%). Chapman SNP 8,026 (18.93%). Smillie C 4,376 (10.32%). Archibald SSP
689 (1.63%). Borland UKIP 643 (1.52%). Turnout 59.90%. January 2006: Rennie LD
12,391 (35.83%). Stihler Lab 10,591 (30.63%). Chapman SNP 7,261 (21.00%). Ruxton
C 2,702 (7.81%). McAllion SSP 537 (1.55%). Hargreaves SCP 411 (1.19%). Minogue
Abolish Tolls 374 (1.08%). Borland UKIP 208 (0.60%). Rodgers Good 103 (0.30%).
Turnout 48.69%. 214 DURHAM, CITY OF *Roberta Blackman-Woods (Lab)20,496 44.31
Carol Woods (LD) 17,429 37.68 Nick Varley (C) 6,146 13.29 Ralph Musgrave (BNP)
1,153 2.49 Nigel Coghill-Marshall (UKIP) 856 1.85 Jonathan Collings (Ind) 172
0.37 Maj. 3,067 6.63 Lab hold. Swing 0.37 Lab to LD. Electorate 68,832. Turnout
67.20% May 2005: Blackman-Woods Lab 20,928 (47.17%). Woods LD 17,654 (39.79%).
Rogers C 4,179 (9.42%). Martin Veritas 1,603 (3.61%). Turnout 62.10%. 215 DURHAM
NORTH *Kevan Jones (Lab) 20,698 50.52 David Skelton (C) 8,622 21.05 Ian Lindley
(LD) 8,617 21.03 Pete Molloy (BNP) 1,686 4.12 Bruce Reid (UKIP) 1,344 3.28 Maj.
12,076 29.48 Lab hold. Electorate 67,548. Turnout 60.65% May 2005: Lab 23,932
(64.09%). LD 7,151 (19.15%). C 6,258 (16.76%). Turnout 55.38%. 216 DURHAM NORTH
WEST Pat Glass (Lab) 18,539 42.31 Owen Temple (LD) 10,927 24.94 Michelle Tempest
(C) 8,766 20.01 Watts Stelling (Ind) 2,472 5.64 Michael Stewart (BNP) 1,852 4.23
Andrew McDonald (UKIP) 1,259 2.87 Maj. 7,612 17.37 Lab hold. Electorate 70,618.
Turnout 62.05% May 2005: Lab 21,312 (53.94%). LD 7,869 (19.92%). C 6,463
(16.36%). Others 3,865 (9.78%). Turnout 57.87%. 217 DWYFOR MEIRIONNYDD +Elfyn
Llwyd (PC) 12,814 44.33 Simon Baynes (C) 6,447 22.30 Alwyn Humphreys (Lab) 4,021
13.91 Steve Churchman (LD) 3,538 12.24 Louise Hughes (Ind) 1,310 4.53 Frank
Wykes (UKIP) 776 2.68 Maj. 6,367 22.03 PC hold. Electorate 45,354. Turnout
63.73% May 2005: PC 15,228 (50.77%). Lab 6,522 (21.74%). C 4,253 (14.18%). LD
3,284 (10.95%). UKIP 709 (2.36%). Turnout 61.44%. 218 EALING CENTRAL & ACTON
Angie Bray (C) 17,944 38.02 Bassam Mahfouz (Lab) 14,228 30.14 Jon Ball (LD)
13,041 27.63 Julie Carter (UKIP) 765 1.62 Sarah Edwards (Green) 737 1.56 Suzanne
Fernandes (Ch P) 295 0.62 Sam Akaki (Ind EACPS) 190 0.40 Maj. 3,716 7.87 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 63,489. Turnout 74.34% May 2005: Lab 12,944 (33.36%). C
12,105 (31.20%). LD 11,883 (30.63%). Green 1,869 (4.82%). Turnout 56.03%. 219
EALING NORTH +Stephen Pound (Lab) 24,023 50.39 Ian Gibb (C) 14,722 30.88 Chris
Lucas (LD) 6,283 13.18 Dave Furness (BNP) 1,045 2.19 Ian De Wulverton (UKIP) 685
1.44 Christopher Warleigh-Lack (Green) 505 1.06 Petar Ljubisic (Ch P) 415 0.87
Maj. 9,301 19.51 Lab hold. Electorate 67,902. Turnout 70.22% May 2005: Lab
20,483 (46.92%). C 12,357 (28.30%). LD 8,390 (19.22%). Green 1,242 (2.84%). UKIP
692 (1.59%). Others 495 (1.13%). Turnout 60.16%. 220 EALING SOUTHALL +Virendra
Sharma (Lab) 22,024 51.51 Gurcharan Singh (C) 12,733 29.78 Nigel Bakhai (LD)
6,383 14.93 Suneil Basu (Green) 705 1.65 Mehboob Anil (Ch P) 503 1.18 Sati
Chaggar (Eng Dem) 408 0.95 Maj. 9,291 21.73 Lab hold. Electorate 60,379. Turnout
70.81% May 2005: Lab 19,634 (57.27%). C 6,494 (18.94%). LD 6,254 (18.24%). Green
1,612 (4.70%). Others 289 (0.84%). Turnout 54.95%. 221 EASINGTON Grahame Morris
(Lab) 20,579 58.94 Tara Saville (LD) 5,597 16.03 Richard Harrison (C) 4,790
13.72 Cheryl Dunn (BNP) 2,317 6.64 Martyn Aiken (UKIP) 1,631 4.67 Maj. 14,982
42.91 Lab hold. Electorate 63,873. Turnout 54.66% May 2005: Lab 23,043 (71.29%).
LD 4,169 (12.90%). C 3,472 (10.74%). Others 1,638 (5.07%). Turnout 51.82%. 222
EAST HAM +Stephen Timms (Lab) 35,471 70.42 Paul Shea (C) 7,645 15.18 Chris Brice
(LD) 5,849 11.61 Barry O'Connor (Eng Dem) 822 1.63 Judy Maciejowska (Green) 586
1.16 Maj. 27,826 55.24 Lab hold. Electorate 90,675. Turnout 55.55% May 2005: Lab
22,109 (53.58%). Respect 8,460 (20.50%). C 5,675 (13.75%). LD 4,442 (10.76%).
Others 580 (1.41%). Turnout 47.60%. 223 EAST KILBRIDE, STRATHAVEN & LESMAHAGOW
Michael McCann (Lab) 26,241 51.51 John McKenna (SNP) 11,738 23.04 Graham Simpson
(C) 6,613 12.98 John Loughton (LD) 5,052 9.92 Kirsten Robb (Green) 1,003 1.97
John Houston (Ind) 299 0.59 Maj. 14,503 28.47 Lab hold. Swing 1.19 Lab to SNP.
Electorate 76,534. Turnout 66.57% May 2005: Ingram Lab 23,264 (48.74%). Edwards
SNP 8,541 (17.89%). Oswald LD 7,904 (16.56%). Lewis C 4,776 (10.01%). Robb Green
1,575 (3.30%). Gentle Ind 1,513 (3.17%). Houston Ind Houston 160 (0.34%).
Turnout 63.53%. 224 EAST LOTHIAN Fiona O'Donnell (Lab) 21,919 44.59 Michael
Veitch (C) 9,661 19.65 Stuart Ritchie (LD) 8,288 16.86 Andrew Sharp (SNP) 7,883
16.04 James Mackenzie (Green) 862 1.75 Jon Lloyd (UKIP) 548 1.11 Maj. 12,258
24.93 Lab hold. Swing 0.28 Lab to C. Electorate 73,438. Turnout 66.94% May 2005:
Picking Lab 18,983 (41.47%). Butler LD 11,363 (24.82%). Stevenson C 7,315
(15.98%). McLennan SNP 5,995 (13.10%). Collie Green 1,132 (2.47%). Galbraith SSP
504 (1.10%). Robb UKIP 306 (0.67%). Thompson OCV 178 (0.39%). Turnout 64.48%.
225 EASTBOURNE Stephen Lloyd (LD) 24,658 47.31 +Nigel Waterson (C) 21,223 40.72
Dave Brinson (Lab) 2,497 4.79 Stephen Shing (Ind) 1,327 2.55 Roger Needham (UKIP
) 1,305 2.50 Colin Poulter (BNP) 939 1.80 Michael Baldry (Ind) 101 0.19 Keith
Gell (Ind) 74 0.14 Maj. 3,435 6.59 LD gain from C. Electorate 77,840. Turnout
66.96% May 2005: C 20,594 (43.06%). LD 19,922 (41.66%). Lab 5,142 (10.75%). UKIP
1,221 (2.55%). Green 943 (1.97%). Turnout 63.19%. 226 EASTLEIGH +Chris Huhne
(LD) 24,966 46.53 Maria Hutchings (C) 21,102 39.33 Leo Barraclough (Lab) 5,153
9.60 Ray Finch (UKIP) 1,933 3.60 Tony Stephen Pewsey (Eng Dem) 249 0.46 Dave
Stone (Ind) 154 0.29 Keith Low (Nat Dem) 93 0.17 Maj. 3,864 7.20 LD hold.
Electorate 77,435. Turnout 69.28% May 2005: LD 18,313 (38.33%). C 17,779
(37.21%). Lab 10,069 (21.08%). UKIP 1,615 (3.38%). Turnout 64.42%. 227 EDDISBURY
+Stephen O'Brien (C) 23,472 51.68 Robert Thompson (LD) 10,217 22.50 Pat Merrick
(Lab) 9,794 21.57 Charles Dodman (UKIP) 1,931 4.25 Maj. 13,255 29.19 C hold.
Electorate 65,306. Turnout 69.54% May 2005: C 20,272 (46.92%). Lab 13,864
(32.09%). LD 7,775 (18.00%). UKIP 1,292 (2.99%). Turnout 65.11%. 228 EDINBURGH
EAST Sheila Gilmore (Lab) 17,314 43.43 George Kerevan (SNP) 8,133 20.40 Beverley
Hope (LD) 7,751 19.44 Martin Donald (C) 4,358 10.93 Robin Harper (Green) 2,035
5.10 Gary Clark (TUSC) 274 0.69 Maj. 9,181 23.03 Lab hold. Swing 0.01 SNP to
Lab. Electorate 60,941. Turnout 65.42% May 2005: Strang Lab 15,899 (40.04%).
Mackenzie LD 9,697 (24.42%). Tymkewycz SNP 6,760 (17.02%). Brown C 4,093
(10.31%). Gillespie Green 2,266 (5.71%). Grant SSP 868 (2.19%). Harris DDTP 89
(0.22%). Clifford ND 37 (0.09%). Turnout 61.25%. 229 EDINBURGH NORTH & LEITH
*Mark Lazarowicz (Lab) 17,740 37.46 Kevin Lang (LD) 16,016 33.82 Iain McGill (C)
7,079 14.95 Calum Cashley (SNP) 4,568 9.65 Kate Joester (Green) 1,062 2.24 John
Hein (Lib) 389 0.82 Willie Black (TUSC) 233 0.49 David Jacobsen (Soc Lab) 141
0.30 Cameron MacIntyre (Ind) 128 0.27 Maj. 1,724 3.64 Lab hold. Swing 0.70 Lab
to LD. Electorate 69,204. Turnout 68.43% May 2005: Lazarowicz Lab Co-op 14,597
(34.23%). Crockart LD 12,444 (29.18%). Whyte C 7,969 (18.69%). Hutchison SNP
4,344 (10.19%). Sydenham Green 2,482 (5.82%). Scott SSP 804 (1.89%). Turnout
62.67%. 230 EDINBURGH SOUTH Ian Murray (Lab) 15,215 34.74 Fred Mackintosh (LD)
14,899 34.02 Neil Hudson (C) 9,452 21.58 Sandy Howat (SNP) 3,354 7.66 Steve
Burgess (Green) 881 2.01 Maj. 316 0.72 Lab hold. Swing 0.11 Lab to LD.
Electorate 59,354. Turnout 73.80% May 2005: Griffiths Lab 14,188 (33.23%).
MacLaren LD 13,783 (32.28%). Brown C 10,291 (24.10%). Sutherland SNP 2,635
(6.17%). Burgess Green 1,387 (3.25%). Robertson SSP 414 (0.97%). Turnout 70.00%.
231 EDINBURGH SOUTH WEST *Alistair Darling (Lab) 19,473 42.83 Jason Rust (C)
11,026 24.25 Tim McKay (LD) 8,194 18.02 Kaukab Stewart (SNP) 5,530 12.16 Clare
Cooney (Green) 872 1.92 Colin Fox (SSP) 319 0.70 Caroline Bellamy (Comm Lge) 48
0.11 Maj. 8,447 18.58 Lab hold. Swing 1.05 C to Lab. Electorate 66,359. Turnout
68.51% May 2005: Darling Lab 17,476 (39.79%). Buchan C 10,234 (23.30%). Clark LD
9,252 (21.06%). Elliott- Cannon SNP 4,654 (10.60%). Blair-Fish Green 1,520
(3.46%). Smith SSP 585 (1.33%). Boys UKIP 205 (0.47%). Turnout 65.43%. 232
EDINBURGH WEST Michael Crockart (LD) 16,684 35.92 Cameron Day (Lab) 12,881 27.73
Stewart Geddes (C) 10,767 23.18 Sheena Cleland (SNP) 6,115 13.17 Maj. 3,803 8.19
LD hold. Swing 11.35 LD to Lab. Electorate 65,161. Turnout 71.28% May 2005:
Barrett LD 22,417 (49.52%). Brogan C 8,817 (19.48%). Ghaleigh Lab 8,433
(18.63%). Cleland SNP 4,124 (9.11%). Spindler Green 964 (2.13%). Clark SSP 510
(1.13%). Turnout 68.85%. 233 EDMONTON +Andy Love (Lab Co-op) 21,665 53.66 Andrew
Charalambous (C) 12,052 29.85 Iarla Kilbane-Dawe (LD) 4,252 10.53 Roy Freshwater
(UKIP) 1,036 2.57 Jack Johnson (Green) 516 1.28 Erol Basarik (Reform) 379 0.94
Clive Morrison (Ch P) 350 0.87 David Mclean (Ind) 127 0.31 Maj. 9,613 23.81 Lab
Co-op hold. Electorate 63,902. Turnout 63.19% May 2005: Lab 20,357 (55.92%). C
10,045 (27.59%). LD 4,369 (12.00%). UKIP 818 (2.25%). Green 817 (2.24%). Turnout
57.47%. 234 ELLESMERE PORT & NESTON +Andrew Miller (Lab) 19,750 44.65 Stuart
Penketh (C) 15,419 34.86 Denise Aspinall (LD) 6,663 15.06 Henry Crocker (UKIP)
1,619 3.66 Jonathan Starkey (Ind) 782 1.77 Maj. 4,331 9.79 Lab hold. Electorate
63,097. Turnout 70.10% May 2005: Lab 20,449 (48.70%). C 13,736 (32.72%). LD
6,600 (15.72%). UKIP 1,201 (2.86%). Turnout 61.31%. 235 ELMET & ROTHWELL Alec
Shelbrooke (C) 23,778 42.62 James Lewis (Lab) 19,257 34.52 Stewart Golton (LD)
9,109 16.33 Sam Clayton (BNP) 1,802 3.23 Darren Oddy (UKIP) 1,593 2.86
Christopher Nolan (Ind) 250 0.45 Maj. 4,521 8.10 C gain from Lab. Electorate
77,724. Turnout 71.78% May 2005: Lab 24,416 (45.91%). C 18,338 (34.48%). LD
9,202 (17.30%). Others 1,231 (2.31%). Turnout 69.77%. 236 ELTHAM +Clive Efford
(Lab) 17,416 41.50 David Gold (C) 15,753 37.54 Steven Toole (LD) 5,299 12.63
Roberta Woods (BNP) 1,745 4.16 Ray Adams (UKIP) 1,011 2.41 Arthur Hayles (Green)
419 1.00 Mike Tibby (Eng Dem) 217 0.52 Andrew Graham (Ind) 104 0.25 Maj. 1,663
3.96 Lab hold. Electorate 62,590. Turnout 67.05% May 2005: Lab 16,135 (42.24%).
C 13,231 (34.64%). LD 6,636 (17.37%). Others 1,126 (2.95%). UKIP 1,067 (2.79%).
Turnout 58.47%. 237 ENFIELD NORTH Nick de Bois (C) 18,804 42.30 +Joan Ryan (Lab)
17,112 38.49 Paul Smith (LD) 5,403 12.15 Tony Avery (BNP) 1,228 2.76 Madge Jones
(UKIP) 938 2.11 Bill Linton (Green) 489 1.10 Anthony Williams (Ch P) 161 0.36
Raquel Weald (Eng Dem) 131 0.29 Anna Athow (WRP) 96 0.22 Gonul Daniels (Ind) 91
0.20 Maj. 1,692 3.81 C hold. Electorate 66,258. Turnout 67.09% May 2005: C
17,167 (43.11%). Lab 16,230 (40.76%).

LD 4,548 (11.42%). Others 1,167 (2.93%). UKIP 711 (1.79%). Turnout 60.33%. 238
ENFIELD SOUTHGATE +David Burrowes (C) 21,928 49.44 Bambos Charalambous (Lab)
14,302 32.25 Johar Khan (LD) 6,124 13.81 Peter Krakowiak (Green) 632 1.42 Bob
Brock (UKIP) 505 1.14 Dr Asit Mukhopadhyay (Ind) 391 0.88 Samad Billoo (Respect)
174 0.39 Ben Weald (Eng Dem) 173 0.39 Mal Malakounides (ND) 88 0.20 Jeremy
Sturgess (BB) 35 0.08 Maj. 7,626 17.19 C hold. Electorate 64,138. Turnout 69.15%
May 2005: C 18,134 (43.77%). Lab 17,007 (41.05%). LD 4,611 (11.13%). Green 1,155
(2.79%). UKIP 526 (1.27%). Turnout 63.47%. 239 EPPING FOREST +Eleanor Laing (C)
25,148 53.98 Ann Haigh (LD) 10,017 21.50 Katie Curtis (Lab) 6,641 14.26 Pat
Richardson (BNP) 1,982 4.25 Andrew Smith (UKIP) 1,852 3.98 Simon Pepper (Green)
659 1.41 Kim Sawyer (Eng Dem) 285 0.61 Maj. 15,131 32.48 C hold. Electorate
72,198. Turnout 64.52% May 2005: 7,787 (18.11%). Others 2,359 (5.49%). UKIP 970
(2.26%). Turnout 61.68%. 240 EPSOM & EWELL +Chris Grayling (C) 30,868 56.17
Jonathan Lees (LD) 14,734 26.81 Craig Montgomery (Lab) 6,538 11.90 Elizabeth
Wallace (UKIP) 2,549 4.64 Peter Ticher (RRG) 266 0.48 Maj. 16,134 29.36 C hold.
Electorate 78,104. Turnout 70.36% May 2005: C 26,832 (54.95%). LD 10,490
(21.48%). Lab 9,773 (20.01%). UKIP 1,738 (3.56%). Turnout 66.21%. 241 EREWASH
Jessica Lee (C) 18,805 39.47 Cheryl Pidgeon (Lab) 16,304 34.22 Martin Garnett
(LD) 8,343 17.51 Mark Bailey (BNP) 2,337 4.91 Jodie Sutton (UKIP) 855 1.79 Lee
Fletcher (Green) 534 1.12 Luke Wilkins (Ind) 464 0.97 Maj. 2,501 5.25 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 69,654. Turnout 68.40% May 2005: Lab 19,369 (44.72%). C
12,587 (29.06%). LD 5,850 (13.51%). Others 4,679 (10.80%). UKIP 824 (1.90%).
Turnout 62.61%. 242 ERITH & THAMESMEAD Teresa Pearce (Lab) 19,068 44.89 Colin
Bloom (C) 13,365 31.46 Alexander Cunliffe (LD) 5,116 12.04 Kevin Saunders (BNP)
2,184 5.14 Pamela Perrin (UKIP) 1,139 2.68 Laurence Williams (Eng Dem) 465 1.09
Abbey Akinoshun (ND) 438 1.03 Sid Cordle (CPA) 379 0.89 Marek Powley (Green) 322
0.76 Maj. 5,703 13.43 Lab hold. Electorate 69,918. Turnout 60.75% May 2005: Lab
19,890 (52.61%). C 10,020 (26.50%). LD 4,856 (12.84%). Others 1,620 (4.29%).
UKIP 1,419 (3.75%). Turnout 53.68%. 243 ESHER & WALTON Dominic Raab (C) 32,134
58.91 Lionel Blackman (LD) 13,541 24.83 Francis Eldergill (Lab) 5,829 10.69
Bernard Collignon (UKIP) 1,783 3.27 Tony Popham (Ind) 378 0.69 Chinners Chinnery
(Loony) 341 0.63 Mike Kearsley (Eng Dem) 307 0.56 Andy Lear (Best) 230 0.42 Maj.
18,593 34.09 C hold. Swing 8.97 LD to C. Electorate 75,338. Turnout 72.40% May
2005: Taylor C 21,882 (45.70%). Marsh LD 14,155 (29.56%). Taylor Lab 9,309
(19.44%). Collignon UKIP 1,582 (3.30%). Chinnery Loony 608 (1.27%). Cutler Soc
Lab 342 (0.71%). Turnout 62.24%. 244 EXETER +Ben Bradshaw (Lab) 19,942 38.17
Hannah Foster (C) 17,221 32.96 Graham Oakes (LD) 10,581 20.25 Keith Crawford (
UKIP) 1,930 3.69 Chris Gale (Lib) 1,108 2.12 Paula Black (Green) 792 1.52 Robert
Farmer (BNP) 673 1.29 Maj. 2,721 5.21 Lab hold. Electorate 77,157. Turnout
67.72% May 2005: Lab 20,887 (42.13%). C 12,328 (24.87%). LD 10,376 (20.93%).
Others 2,405 (4.85%). Green 1,896 (3.82%). UKIP 1,682 (3.39%). Turnout 64.34%.
245 FALKIRK *Eric Joyce (Lab) 23,207 45.70 John McNally (SNP) 15,364 30.26 Katie
Mackie (C) 5,698 11.22 Kieran Leach (LD) 5,225 10.29 Brian Goldie (UKIP) 1,283
2.53 Maj. 7,843 15.45 Lab hold. Swing 7.00 Lab to SNP. Electorate 81,869.
Turnout 62.02% May 2005: Joyce Lab 23,264 (50.85%). Love SNP 9,789 (21.40%).
Chomczuk LD 7,321 (16.00%). Potts C 4,538 (9.92%). Quinlan SSP 838 (1.83%).
Turnout 59.58%. 246 FAREHAM *Mark Hoban (C) 30,037 55.27 Alex Bentley (LD)
12,945 23.82 James Carr (Lab) 7,719 14.20 Steve Richards (UKIP) 2,235 4.11 Peter
Doggett (Green) 791 1.46 Joe Jenkins (Eng Dem) 618 1.14 Maj. 17,092 31.45 C
hold. Swing 1.73 LD to C. Electorate 75,878. Turnout 71.62% May 2005: Hoban C
24,151 (49.72%). Carr Lab 12,449 (25.63%). De Ste-Croix LD 10,551 (21.72%).
Mason- Apps UKIP 1,425 (2.93%). Turnout 66.91%. 247 FAVERSHAM & KENT MID +Hugh
Robertson (C) 26,250 56.20 David Naghi (LD) 9,162 19.61 Ash Rehal (Lab) 7,748
16.59 Sarah Larkins (UKIP) 1,722 3.69 Tim Valentine (Green) 890 1.91 Graham Kemp
(NF) 542 1.16 Hairy Knorm Davidson (Loony) 398 0.85 Maj. 17,088 36.58 C hold.
Electorate 68,858. Turnout 67.84% May 2005: C 21,295 (50.09%). Lab 12,368
(29.09%). LD 7,119 (16.74%). UKIP 1,124 (2.64%). Others 610 (1.43%). Turnout
65.27%. 248 FELTHAM & HESTON +Alan Keen (Lab Co-op) 21,174 43.63 Mark Bowen (C)
16,516 34.04 Munira Wilson (LD) 6,669 13.74 John Donnelly (BNP) 1,714 3.53 Jerry
Shadbolt (UKIP) 992 2.04 Elizabeth Anstis (Green) 530 1.09 Dharmendra Tripathi
(Ind) 505 1.04 Asa Khaira (Ind) 180 0.37 Roger Williams (Ind) 168 0.35 Matthew
Linley (WRP) 78 0.16 Maj. 4,658 9.60 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 81,058. Turnout
59.87% May 2005: Lab 18,978 (48.09%). C 11,380 (28.84%). LD 6,586 (16.69%).
Others 1,016 (2.57%). Green 888 (2.25%). UKIP 612 (1.55%). Turnout 47.86%. 250
FIFE NORTH EAST *Sir Menzies Campbell (LD) 17,763 44.34 Miles Briggs (C) 8,715
21.75 Mark Hood (Lab) 6,869 17.15 Rod Campbell (SNP) 5,685 14.19 Mike
Scott-Hayward (UKIP) 1,032 2.58 Maj. 9,048 22.58 LD hold. Swing 5.01 LD to C.
Electorate 62,969. Turnout 63.62% May 2005: Campbell LD 20,088 (52.10%). Scott-
Hayward C 7,517 (19.50%). King Lab 4,920 (12.76%). Campbell SNP 4,011 (10.40%).
Park Green 1,071 (2.78%). Pickard UKIP 533 (1.38%). Ferguson SSP 416 (1.08%).
Turnout 62.13%. 251 FILTON & BRADLEY STOKE Jack Lopresti (C) 19,686 40.76 Ian
Boulton (Lab) 12,772 26.44 Peter Tyzack (LD) 12,197 25.25 John Knight (UKIP)
1,506 3.12 David Scott (BNP) 1,328 2.75 Jon Lucas (Green) 441 0.91 Ruth Johnson
(Ch P) 199 0.41 Vote Zero None of the Above (ND) 172 0.36 Maj. 6,914 14.31 C
hold. Electorate 69,003. Turnout 70.00% May 2005: C 14,629 (35.47%). Lab 13,976
(33.89%). LD 11,703 (28.38%). UKIP 935 (2.27%). Turnout 62.45%. 252 FINCHLEY &
GOLDERS GREEN Mike Freer (C) 21,688 45.99 Alison Moore (Lab) 15,879 33.67 Laura
Edge (LD) 8,036 17.04 Susan Cummins (UKIP) 817 1.73 Donald Lyven (Green) 737
1.56 Maj. 5,809 12.32 C hold. Electorate 77,198. Turnout 61.09% May 2005: C
16,692 (39.80%). Lab 16,398 (39.10%). LD 7,186 (17.13%). Green 1,092 (2.60%).
UKIP 461 (1.10%). Others 110 (0.26%). Turnout 62.79%. 253 FOLKESTONE & HYTHE
Damian Collins (C) 26,109 49.45 Lynne Beaumont (LD) 15,987 30.28 Donald Worsley
(Lab) 5,719 10.83 Frank McKenna (UKIP) 2,439 4.62 Harry Williams (BNP) 1,662
3.15 Penny Kemp (Green) 637 1.21 David Plumstead (Ind) 247 0.47 Maj. 10,122
19.17 C hold. Electorate 78,003. Turnout 67.69% May 2005: C 27,587 (53.93%). LD
15,141 (29.60%). Lab 6,449 (12.61%). Green 777 (1.52%). UKIP 698 (1.36%). Others
501 (0.98%). Turnout 68.73%. 254 FOREST OF DEAN *Mark Harper (C) 22,853 46.87
Bruce Hogan (Lab) 11,789 24.18 Chris Coleman (LD) 10,676 21.89 Tim Congdon (UKIP
) 2,522 5.17 James Greenwood (Green) 923 1.89 Maj. 11,064 22.69 C hold. Swing
9.19 Lab to C. Electorate 68,419. Turnout 71.27% May 2005: Harper C 19,474
(40.88%). Owen Lab 17,425 (36.58%). Coleman LD 8,185 (17.18%). Hill UKIP 1,140
(2.39%). Tweedie Green 991 (2.08%). Reeve Ind 300 (0.63%). Morgan EEP 125
(0.26%). Turnout 70.87%. 256 FYLDE Mark Menzies (C) 22,826 52.25 Bill Winlow
(LD) 9,641 22.07 Liam Robinson (Lab) 8,624 19.74 Martin Bleeker (UKIP) 1,945
4.45 Philip Mitchell (Green) 654 1.50 Maj. 13,185 30.18 C hold. Electorate
65,917. Turnout 66.28% May 2005: C 21,053 (54.30%). Lab 9,936 (25.63%). LD 6,137
(15.83%). Others 1,647 (4.25%). Turnout 59.31%. 257 GAINSBOROUGH +Edward Leigh
(C) 24,266 49.27 Pat O'Connor (LD) 13,707 27.83 Jamie McMahon (Lab) 7,701 15.64
Steve Pearson (UKIP) 2,065 4.19 Malcolm Porter (BNP) 1,512 3.07 Maj. 10,559
21.44 C hold. Electorate 72,144. Turnout 68.27% May 2005: C 19,524 (43.84%). Lab
11,629 (26.11%). LD 11,578 (26.00%). UKIP 1,803 (4.05%). Turnout 64.67%. 258
GARSTON & HALEWOOD +Maria Eagle (Lab) 25,493 59.53 Paula Keaveney (LD) 8,616
20.12 Richard Downey (C) 6,908 16.13 Tony Hammond (UKIP) 1,540 3.60 Diana Raby
(Respect) 268 0.63 Maj. 16,877 39.41 Lab hold. Electorate 71,312. Turnout 60.05%
May 2005: Lab 22,433 (57.92%). LD 11,619 (30.00%). C 3,818 (9.86%). UKIP 697
(1.80%). Others 163 (0.42%). Turnout 53.26%. 259 GATESHEAD Ian Mearns (Lab)
20,712 54.14 Frank Hindle (LD) 8,163 21.34 Hazel Anderson (C) 5,716 14.94 Kevin
Scott (BNP) 1,787 4.67 John Tennant (UKIP) 1,103 2.88 Andy Redfern (Green) 379
0.99 Elaine Brunskill (TUSC) 266 0.70 David Walton (Ch P) 131 0.34 Maj. 12,549
32.80 Lab hold. Electorate 66,492. Turnout 57.54% May 2005: Lab 21,510 (61.42%).
LD 7,265 (20.74%). C 3,564 (10.18%). Others 1,519 (4.34%). UKIP 1,163 (3.32%).
Turnout 53.70%. 260 GEDLING +Vernon Coaker (Lab) 19,821 41.13 Bruce Laughton (C)
17,962 37.27 Julia Bateman (LD) 7,350 15.25 Stephen Adcock (BNP) 1,598 3.32 Dave
Marshall (UKIP) 1,459 3.03 Maj. 1,859 3.86 Lab hold. Electorate 70,590. Turnout
68.27% May 2005: Lab 20,982 (46.63%). C 16,647 (37.00%). LD 6,169 (13.71%). UKIP
785 (1.74%). Others 411 (0.91%). Turnout 63.88%. 261 GILLINGHAM & RAINHAM Rehman
Chishti (C) 21,624 46.22 +Paul Clark (Lab) 12,944 27.67 Andrew Stamp (LD) 8,484
18.13 Robert Oakley (UKIP) 1,515 3.24 Brian Ravenscroft (BNP) 1,149 2.46 Dean
Lacey (Eng Dem) 464 0.99 Trish Marchant (Green) 356 0.76 Gordon Bryan (ND) 141
0.30 George Meegan (Med Ind) 109 0.23 Maj. 8,680 18.55 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 70,865. Turnout 66.02% May 2005: Lab 18,009 (40.73%). C 17,994
(40.70%). LD 6,774 (15.32%). UKIP 1,180 (2.67%). Others 254 (0.57%). Turnout
64.02%. 262 GLASGOW CENTRAL Anas Sarwar (Lab) 15,908 52.02 Osama Saeed (SNP)
5,357 17.52 Chris Young (LD) 5,010 16.38 John Bradley (C) 2,158 7.06 Alastair
Whitelaw (Green) 800 2.62 Ian Holt (BNP) 616 2.01 James Nesbitt (SSP) 357 1.17
Ramsay Urquhart (UKIP) 246 0.80 Finlay Archibald (Pirate) 128 0.42 Maj. 10,551
34.50 Lab hold. Swing 0.54 SNP to Lab. Electorate 60,062. Turnout 50.91% May
2005: Sarwar Lab 13,518 (48.21%). Nelson LD 4,987 (17.79%). Kidd SNP 4,148
(14.79%). Sullivan C 1,757 (6.27%). Masterton Green 1,372 (4.89%). Gordon SSP
1,110 (3.96%). Hamilton BNP 671 (2.39%). Johnson Soc Lab 255 (0.91%). Greig OCV
139 (0.50%). McKenzie Comm Brit 80 (0.29%). Turnout 43.77%. 263 GLASGOW EAST
Margaret Curran (Lab) 19,797 61.55 *John Mason (SNP) 7,957 24.74 Kevin Ward (LD)
1,617 5.03 Hamira Khan (C) 1,453 4.52 Joseph Finnie (BNP) 677 2.10 Frances
Curran (SSP) 454 1.41 Arthur Thackeray (UKIP) 209 0.65 Maj. 11,840 36.81 Lab
gain from SNP. Swing 3.42 Lab to SNP. Electorate 61,516. Turnout 52.29% May
2005: Marshall Lab 18,775 (60.68%). McNeill SNP 5,268 (17.03%). Jackson LD 3,665
(11.85%). Thomson C 2,135 (6.90%). Savage SSP 1,096 (3.54%). Turnout 48.24%.
July 2008: Mason SNP 11,277 (43.08%). Curran Lab 10,912 (41.69%). Rankin C 1,639
(6.26%). Robertson LD 915 (3.50%). Curran SSP 555 (2.12%). McLeish Solidarity
512 (1.96%). Duke Green 232 (0.89%). Creighton Ind 67 (0.26%). Howitt

Choice 65 (0.25%). Turnout 42.18%. 264 GLASGOW NORTH *Ann McKechin (Lab) 13,181
44.51 Katy Gordon (LD) 9,283 31.35 Patrick Grady (SNP) 3,530 11.92 Erin Boyle
(C) 2,089 7.05 Martin Bartos (Green) 947 3.20 Thomas Main (BNP) 296 1.00 Angela
McCormick (TUSC) 287 0.97 Maj. 3,898 13.16 Lab hold. Swing 0.60 LD to Lab.
Electorate 51,416. Turnout 57.59% May 2005: McKechin Lab 11,001 (39.40%). Rodger
LD 7,663 (27.45%). McLean SNP 3,614 (12.94%). Pope C 2,441 (8.74%). Bartos Green
2,135 (7.65%). Tarlton SSP 1,067 (3.82%). Turnout 50.38%. 265 GLASGOW NORTH EAST
Willie Bain (Lab) 20,100 68.35 Billy McAllister (SNP) 4,158 14.14 Eileen
Baxendale (LD) 2,262 7.69 Ruth Davidson (C) 1,569 5.34 Walter Hamilton (BNP) 798
2.71 Graham Campbell (TUSC) 187 0.64 Kevin McVey (SSP) 179 0.61 Jim Berrington
(Soc Lab) 156 0.53 Maj. 15,942 54.21 Lab hold. Swing to . Electorate 59,859.
Turnout 49.13% May 2005: Martin Speaker 15,153 (53.32%). McLaughlin SNP 5,019
(17.66%). Kelly Soc Lab 4,036 (14.20%). Campbell SSP 1,402 (4.93%). Houston Scot
U 1,266 (4.45%). McLean BNP 920 (3.24%). Chambers Ind 622 (2.19%). Turnout
45.80%. November 2009: Bain Lab 12,231 (59.39%). Kerr SNP 4,120 (20.00%).
Davidson C 1,075 (5.22%). Baillie BNP 1,013 (4.92%). Sheridan Solidarity 794
(3.86%). Baxendale LD 474 (2.30%). Doherty Green 332 (1.61%). Smeaton Jury Team
258 (1.25%). McVey SSP 152 (0.74%). Hughes ND 54 (0.26%). McDaid Soc Lab 47
(0.23%). Brown Ind 32 (0.16%). Campbell TILT 13 (0.06%). Turnout 32.97%. 266
GLASGOW NORTH WEST *John Robertson (Lab) 19,233 54.05 Natalie McKee (LD) 5,622
15.80 Mags Park (SNP) 5,430 15.26 Richard Sullivan (C) 3,537 9.94 Moira Crawford
(Green) 882 2.48 Scott Mclean (BNP) 699 1.96 Marc Livingstone (Comm) 179 0.50
Maj. 13,611 38.25 Lab hold. Swing 4.31 LD to Lab. Electorate 60,968. Turnout
58.36% May 2005: Robertson Lab 16,748 (49.17%). Graham LD 6,655 (19.54%). Hendry
SNP 4,676 (13.73%). Roxburgh C 3,262 (9.58%). Wardrop Green 1,333 (3.91%). Irwin
SSP 1,108 (3.25%). Muir Soc Lab 279 (0.82%). Turnout 55.04%. 267 GLASGOW SOUTH
*Tom Harris (Lab) 20,736 51.72 Malcolm Fleming (SNP) 8,078 20.15 Shabnum
Mustapha (LD) 4,739 11.82 Davena Rankin (C) 4,592 11.45 Marie Campbell (Green)
961 2.40 Mike Coyle (BNP) 637 1.59 Brian Smith (TUSC) 351 0.88 Maj. 12,658 31.57
Lab hold. Swing 1.51 Lab to SNP. Electorate 65,029. Turnout 61.66% May 2005:
Harris Lab 18,153 (47.24%). Sanderson LD 7,321 (19.05%). MacLean SNP 4,860
(12.65%). McAlpine C 4,836 (12.58%). Allan Green 1,692 (4.40%). Stevenson SSP
1,303 (3.39%). Entwistle Soc Lab 266 (0.69%). Turnout 55.83%. 268 GLASGOW SOUTH
WEST +Ian Davidson (Lab Co-op) 19,863 62.50 Chris Stephens (SNP) 5,192 16.34
Isabel Nelson (LD) 2,870 9.03 Maya Henderson Forrest (C) 2,084 6.56 Tommy
Sheridan (TUSC) 931 2.93 David Orr (BNP) 841 2.65 Maj. 14,671 46.16 Lab Co-op
hold. Swing 0.65 SNP to Lab. Electorate 58,182. Turnout 54.62% May 2005:
Davidson Lab Co-op 18,653 (60.22%). Dornan SNP 4,757 (15.36%). Gordon LD 3,593
(11.60%). Brady C 1,786 (5.77%). Baldassara SSP 1,666 (5.38%). McConnachie Ind
Green 379 (1.22%). Shaw Soc Lab 143 (0.46%). Turnout 49.96%. 269 GLENROTHES
*Lindsay Roy (Lab) 25,247 62.34 David Alexander (SNP) 8,799 21.73 Harry Wills
(LD) 3,108 7.67 Sheila Low (C) 2,922 7.21 Kris Seunarine (UKIP) 425 1.05 Maj.
16,448 40.61 Lab hold. Swing 6.04 SNP to Lab. Electorate 67,893. Turnout 59.65%
May 2005: MacDougall Lab 19,395 (51.91%). Beare SNP 8,731 (23.37%). Riches LD
4,728 (12.65%). Don C 2,651 (7.09%). Rodger PPS 716 (1.92%). Balfour SSP 705
(1.89%). Smith UKIP 440 (1.18%). Turnout 56.14%. November 2008: Roy Lab 19,946
(55.11%). Grant SNP 13,209 (36.49%). Golden C 1,381 (3.82%). Wills LD 947
(2.62%). Parker SSCUP 296 (0.82%). Balfour SSP 212 (0.59%). Seunarine UKIP 117
(0.32%). McLeary Solidarity 87 (0.24%). Turnout 52.34%. 270 GLOUCESTER Richard
Graham (C) 20,267 39.92 +Parmjit Dhanda (Lab) 17,847 35.16 Jeremy Hilton (LD)
9,767 19.24 Mike Smith (UKIP) 1,808 3.56 Alan Platt (Eng Dem) 564 1.11 Bryan
Meloy (Green) 511 1.01 Maj. 2,420 4.77 C gain from Lab. Electorate 79,322.
Turnout 64.00% May 2005: Lab 22,289 (47.60%). C 16,226 (34.66%). LD 6,409
(13.69%). UKIP 1,116 (2.38%). Green 781 (1.67%). Turnout 62.50%. 271 GORDON
*Malcolm Bruce (LD) 17,575 36.03 Richard Thomson (SNP) 10,827 22.20 Barney
Crockett (Lab) 9,811 20.11 Ross Thomson (C) 9,111 18.68 Sue Edwards (Green) 752
1.54 Elise Jones (BNP) 699 1.43 Maj. 6,748 13.83 LD hold. Swing 7.61 LD to SNP.
Electorate 73,420. Turnout 66.43% May 2005: Bruce LD 20,008 (45.02%). Brotchie
Lab 8,982 (20.21%). Atkinson C 7,842 (17.65%). Strathdee SNP 7,098 (15.97%).
Paterson SSP 508 (1.14%). Turnout 61.78%. 272 GOSPORT Caroline Dinenage (C)
24,300 51.77 Rob Hylands (LD) 9,887 21.06 Graham Giles (Lab) 7,944 16.92 Andrew
Rice (UKIP) 1,496 3.19 Barry Bennett (BNP) 1,004 2.14 Bob Shaw (Eng Dem) 622
1.33 Andrea Smith (Green) 573 1.22 David Smith (Ind) 493 1.05 Charles Read (Ind)
331 0.71 Brian Hart (Ind) 289 0.62 Maj. 14,413 30.71 C hold. Swing 1.27 LD to C.
Electorate 72,720. Turnout 64.55% May 2005: Viggers C 19,268 (44.77%). Williams
Lab 13,538 (31.46%). Roberts LD 7,145 (16.60%). Bowles UKIP 1,825 (4.24%). Smith
Green 1,258 (2.92%). Turnout 60.51%. 273 GOWER *Martin Caton (Lab) 16,016 38.43
Byron Davies (C) 13,333 32.00 Mike Day (LD) 7,947 19.07 Darren Price (PC) 2,760
6.62 Adrian Jones (BNP) 963 2.31 Gordon Triggs (UKIP) 652 1.56 Maj. 2,683 6.44
Lab hold. Electorate 61,696. Turnout 67.54% May 2005: Lab 16,786 (42.45%). C
10,083 (25.50%). LD 7,291 (18.44%). PC 3,089 (7.81%). UKIP 1,264 (3.20%). Green
1,029 (2.60%). Turnout 65.43%. 274 GRANTHAM & STAMFORD Nicholas Boles (C) 26,552
50.29 Harrish Bisnauthsing (LD) 11,726 22.21 Mark Bartlett (Lab) 9,503 18.00
Christopher Robinson (BNP) 2,485 4.71 Tony Wells (UKIP) 1,604 3.04 Mark Horn
(Lincs Ind) 929 1.76 Maj. 14,826 28.08 C hold. Electorate 78,000. Turnout 67.69%
May 2005: C 21,746 (46.92%). Lab 14,438 (31.15%). LD 7,640 (16.49%). UKIP 1,482
(3.20%). Others 1,038 (2.24%). Turnout 62.96%. 275 GRAVESHAM *Adam Holloway (C)
22,956 48.53 Kathryn Smith (Lab Co-op) 13,644 28.84 Anna Arrowsmith (LD) 6,293
13.30 Geoffrey Clark (UKIP) 2,265 4.79 Steven Uncles (Eng Dem) 1,005 2.12
Richard Crawford (Green) 675 1.43 Alice Dartnell (Ind) 465 0.98 Maj. 9,312 19.69
C hold. Swing 9.12 Lab to C. Electorate 70,195. Turnout 67.39% May 2005:
Holloway C 19,739 (43.69%). Pond Lab 19,085 (42.24%). Parmenter LD 4,851
(10.74%). Coates UKIP 850 (1.88%). Nickerson Eng Ind 654 (1.45%). Turnout
65.76%. 276 GREAT GRIMSBY *Austin Mitchell (Lab) 10,777 32.70 Victoria Ayling
(C) 10,063 30.54 Andrew de Freitas (LD) 7,388 22.42 Henry Hudson (UKIP) 2,043
6.20 Steve Fyfe (BNP) 1,517 4.60 Ernie Brown (Ind) 835 2.53 Adrian Howe (PNDP)
331 1.00 Maj. 714 2.17 Lab hold. Swing 10.53 Lab to C. Electorate 61,229.
Turnout 53.82% May 2005: Mitchell Lab 15,512 (47.06%). Taylor C 7,858 (23.84%).
de Freitas LD 6,356 (19.28%). Fyfe BNP 1,338 (4.06%). Grant UKIP 1,239 (3.76%).
Brooks Green 661 (2.01%). Turnout 51.74%. 277 GREAT YARMOUTH Brandon Lewis (C)
18,571 43.13 *Tony Wright (Lab) 14,295 33.20 Simon Partridge (LD) 6,188 14.37
Alan Baugh (UKIP) 2,066 4.80 Bosco Tann (BNP) 1,421 3.30 Laura Biggart (Green)
416 0.97 Margaret McMahon-Morris (LTT) 100 0.23 Maj. 4,276 9.93 C gain from Lab.
Swing 8.66 Lab to C. Electorate 70,315. Turnout 61.23% May 2005: Wright Lab
18,850 (45.56%). Fox C 15,795 (38.17%). Newton LD 4,585 (11.08%). Poole UKIP
1,759 (4.25%). Skipper LCA 389 (0.94%). Turnout 60.07%. 278 GREENWICH & WOOLWICH
+Nick Raynsford (Lab) 20,262 49.19 Spencer Drury (C) 10,109 24.54 Joseph Lee
(LD) 7,498 18.20 Lawrence Rustem (BNP) 1,151 2.79 Andy Hewett (Green) 1,054 2.56
Edward Adeleye (Ch P) 443 1.08 Topo Wresniwiro (Eng Dem) 339 0.82 Onay Kasab
(TUSC) 267 0.65 Dr Tammy Alingham (Ind) 65 0.16 Maj. 10,153 24.65 Lab hold.
Electorate 65,489. Turnout 62.89% May 2005: Lab 18,636 (52.47%). LD 6,998
(19.70%). C 6,244 (17.58%). Green 1,579 (4.45%). Others 1,277 (3.60%). UKIP 783
(2.20%). Turnout 53.25%. 279 GUILDFORD +Anne Milton (C) 29,618 53.30 Sue Doughty
(LD) 21,836 39.30 Tim Shand (Lab) 2,812 5.06 Mazhar Manzoor (UKIP) 1,021 1.84
John Morris (PPN-V) 280 0.50 Maj. 7,782 14.00 C hold. Electorate 77,082. Turnout
72.09% May 2005: C 22,112 (43.45%). LD 22,023 (43.27%). Lab 5,033 (9.89%). Green
811 (1.59%). UKIP 636 (1.25%). Others 278 (0.55%). Turnout 67.05%. 280 HACKNEY
NORTH & STOKE NEWINGTON +Diane Abbott (Lab) 25,553 54.97 Keith Angus (LD) 11,092
23.86 Darren Caplan (C) 6,759 14.54 Matt Sellwood (Green) 2,133 4.59 Maxine
Hargreaves (Ch P) 299 0.64 Suzanne Moore (ND) 285 0.61 Knigel Knapp (Loony) 182
0.39 Paul Shaer (Ind) 96 0.21 Alessandra Williams (Ind) 61 0.13 Dr Jack
Pope-De-Locksley (Magna Carta)28 0.06 Maj. 14,461 31.11 Lab hold. Electorate
73,874. Turnout 62.93% May 2005: Lab 15,138 (48.96%). LD 7,136 (23.08%). C 4,512
(14.59%). Green 2,988 (9.66%). Others 1,146 (3.71%). Turnout 49.39%. 281 HACKNEY
SOUTH & SHOREDITCH +Meg Hillier (Lab) 23,888 55.74 Dave Raval (LD) 9,600 22.40
Simon Nayyar (C) 5,800 13.53 Polly Lane (Green) 1,493 3.48 Michael King (UKIP)
651 1.52 Ben Rae (Lib) 539 1.26 John Williams (Ch P) 434 1.01 Nusret Sen (DDP)
202 0.47 Paul Davies (Comm Lge) 110 0.26 Denny De La Haye (Ind) 95 0.22 Jane
Tuckett (Ind) 26 0.06 Michael Spinks (Ind) 20 0.05 Maj. 14,288 33.34 Lab hold.
Electorate 72,816. Turnout 58.86% May 2005: Lab 16,178 (52.70%). LD 6,549
(21.33%). C 4,230 (13.78%). Others 2,042 (6.65%). Green 1,698 (5.53%). Turnout
51.33%. 282 HALESOWEN & ROWLEY REGIS James Morris (C) 18,115 41.19 Sue Hayman
(Lab) 16,092 36.59 Philip Tibbets (LD) 6,515 14.81 Derek Baddeley (UKIP) 2,824
6.42 Derek Thompson (Ind) 433 0.98 Maj. 2,023 4.60 C gain from Lab. Electorate
63,693. Turnout 69.05% May 2005: Lab 19,199 (46.25%). C 15,189 (36.59%). LD
5,187 (12.49%). UKIP 1,940 (4.67%). Turnout 63.13%. 283 HALIFAX +Linda Riordan
(Lab) 16,278 37.37 Philip Allott (C) 14,806 33.99 Elisabeth Wilson (LD) 8,335
19.14 Tom Bates (BNP) 2,760 6.34 Diane Park (Ind Voice) 722 1.66 Jay Sangha (
UKIP) 654 1.50 Maj. 1,472 3.38 Lab hold. Electorate 70,380. Turnout 61.89% May
2005: Lab 16,658 (41.88%). C 13,177 (33.13%). LD 7,120 (17.90%). Others 2,818
(7.09%). Turnout 61.02%. 284 HALTEMPRICE & HOWDEN +David Davis (C) 24,486 50.24
Jon Neal (LD) 12,884 26.44 Danny Marten (Lab) 7,630 15.66 James Cornell (BNP)
1,583 3.25 Joanne Robinson (Eng Dem) 1,485 3.05 Shan Oakes (Green) 669 1.37 Maj.
11,602 23.81 C hold. Electorate 70,403. Turnout 69.23% May 2005: C 22,687
(47.00%). LD 17,607 (36.48%). Lab 6,514 (13.49%). Others 798 (1.65%). UKIP 665
(1.38%). Turnout 70.43%. 285 HALTON +Derek Twigg (Lab) 23,843 57.68 Ben Jones
(C) 8,339 20.17 Frank Harasiwka (LD) 5,718 13.83 Andrew Taylor (BNP) 1,563 3.78
John Moore (UKIP) 1,228 2.97 Jim Craig (Green) 647 1.57 Maj. 15,504 37.51 Lab
hold. Electorate 68,884. Turnout 60.01% Ma y 2005: Lab 23,436 (63.12%). C 7,376
(19.87%). LD 6,317 (17.01%). Turnout 53.62%. 286 HAMMERSMITH +Andy Slaughter
(Lab) 20,810 43.85 Shaun Bailey (C) 17,261 36.38 Merlene Emerson (LD) 7,567
15.95 Rollo Miles (Green) 696 1.47 Vanessa Crichton (UKIP) 551 1.16 Lawrence
Searle (BNP) 432 0.91 Stephen Brennan (Ind) 135 0.28 Maj. 3,549 7.48 Lab hold.
Electorate 72,348. Turnout 65.59% May 2005: Lab 18,463 (42.40%). C 14,790
(33.97%). LD 8,267 (18.99%). Green 1,767 (4.06%). UKIP 254 (0.58%). Turnout
58.57%. 287 HAMPSHIRE EAST Damian Hinds (C) 29,137 56.78 Adam Carew (LD) 15,640
30.48 Jane Edbrooke (Lab) 4,043 7.88 Hugh McGuinness (UKIP) 1,477 2.88 Matt
Williams (Eng Dem) 710 1.38 Don Jerrard (J & AC) 310 0.60 Maj. 13,497 26.30 C
hold. Electorate 72,250. Turnout 71.03% May 2005: C 21,441 (47.03%). LD 15,473
(33.94%). Lab 7,499 (16.45%). UKIP 1,176 (2.58%). Turnout 64.70%. 288 HAMPSHIRE
NORTH EAST +James Arbuthnot (C) 32,075 60.59 Denzil Coulson (LD) 13,478 25.46
Barry Jones (Lab) 5,173 9.77 Ruth Duffin (UKIP) 2,213 4.18 Maj. 18,597 35.13 C
hold. Electorate 72,196. Turnout 73.33% May 2005: C 22,784 (53.14%). LD 11,595
(27.04%). Lab 7,102 (16.56%). UKIP 1,397 (3.26%). Turnout 62.60%. 289 HAMPSHIRE
NORTH WEST +Sir George Young (C) 31,072 58.31 Thomas McCann (LD) 12,489 23.44
Sarah Evans (Lab) 6,980 13.10 Stan Oram (UKIP) 2,751 5.16 Maj. 18,583 34.87 C
hold. Electorate 76,040. Turnout 70.08% May 2005: C 25,079 (50.48%). LD 12,396
(24.95%). Lab 10,357 (20.85%). UKIP 1,851 (3.73%). Turnout 66.06%. 290 HAMPSTEAD
& KILBURN +Glenda Jackson (Lab) 17,332 32.81 Chris Philp (C) 17,290 32.73 Edward
Fordham (LD) 16,491 31.22 Bea Campbell (Green) 759 1.44 Magnus Nielsen (UKIP)
408 0.77 Victoria Moore (BNP) 328 0.62 Tamsin Omond (TOC) 123 0.23 Gene
Alcantara (Ind) 91 0.17 Maj. 42 0.08 Lab hold. Electorate 79,713. Turnout 66.27%
May 2005: Lab 15,138 (36.32%). LD 14,664 (35.19%). C 9,559 (22.94%). Green 1,948
(4.67%). UKIP 275 (0.66%). Others 91 (0.22%). Turnout 55.84%. 291 HARBOROUGH
+Edward Garnier (C) 26,894 48.95 Zuffar Haq (LD) 17,097 31.12 Kevin McKeever
(Lab) 6,981 12.71 Geoff Dickens (BNP) 1,715 3.12 Marrietta King (UKIP) 1,462
2.66 David Ball (Eng Dem) 568 1.03 Jeff Stephenson (Ind) 228 0.41 Maj. 9,797
17.83 C hold. Electorate 77,917. Turnout 70.52% May 2005: C 20,749 (42.95%). LD
16,702 (34.57%). Lab 9,334 (19.32%). UKIP 1,525 (3.16%). Turnout 64.07%. 292
HARLOW Robert Halfon (C) 19,691 44.88 +Bill Rammell (Lab) 14,766 33.65 David
White (LD) 5,990 13.65 Eddy Butler (BNP) 1,739 3.96 John Croft (UKIP) 1,591 3.63
Oluyemi Adeeko (Ch P) 101 0.23 Maj. 4,925 11.22 C gain from Lab. Electorate
67,439. Turnout 65.06% May 2005: Lab 16,434 (41.37%). C 16,204 (40.79%). LD
5,148 (12.96%). UKIP 994 (2.50%). Others 941 (2.37%). Turnout 62.35%. 293
HARROGATE & KNARESBOROUGH Andrew Jones (C) 24,305 45.74 Claire Kelley (LD)
23,266 43.79 Kevin McNerney (Lab) 3,413 6.42 Steven Gill (BNP) 1,094 2.06 John
Upex (UKIP) 1,056 1.99 Maj. 1,039 1.96 C gain from LD. Electorate 75,269.
Turnout 70.59% May 2005: LD 25,639 (52.10%). C 17,659 (35.88%). Lab 4,480
(9.10%). UKIP 845 (1.72%). Others 589 (1.20%). Turnout 66.67%. 294 HARROW EAST
Bob Blackman (C) 21,435 44.65 +Tony McNulty (Lab) 18,032 37.56 Nahid Boethe (LD)
6,850 14.27 Abhijit Pandya (UKIP) 896 1.87 Madeleine Atkins (Green) 793 1.65
Maj. 3,403 7.09 C gain from Lab. Electorate 68,554. Turnout 70.03% May 2005: Lab
19,366 (45.46%). C 16,432 (38.57%). LD 6,043 (14.19%). UKIP 757 (1.78%). Turnout
61.28%. 295 HARROW WEST +Gareth Thomas (Lab Co-op) 20,111 43.61 Dr Rachel Joyce
(C) 16,968 36.79 Christopher Noyce (LD) 7,458 16.17 Herbert Crossman (UKIP) 954
2.07 Rowan Langley (Green) 625 1.36 Maj. 3,143 6.82 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate
71,510. Turnout 64.49% May 2005: Lab 20,622 (48.63%). C 12,880 (30.37%). LD
7,919 (18.67%). UKIP 558 (1.32%). Others 427 (1.01%). Turnout 64.35%. 296
HARTLEPOOL *Iain Wright (Lab) 16,267 42.54 Alan Wright (C) 10,758 28.13 Reg
Clark (LD) 6,533 17.08 Stephen Allison (UKIP) 2,682 7.01 Ronnie Bage (BNP) 2,002
5.24 Maj. 5,509 14.41 Lab hold. Swing 12.82 Lab to C. Electorate 68,923. Turnout
55.49% May 2005: Wright Lab 18,251 (51.50%). Dunn LD 10,773 (30.40%). Vigar C
4,058 (11.45%). Springer UKIP 1,256 (3.54%). Harrison Soc Lab 373 (1.05%). Ryder
Green 288 (0.81%). Hobbs Ind 275 (0.78%). Headbanger Loony 162 (0.46%). Turnout
51.52%. 297 HARWICH & ESSEX NORTH +Bernard Jenkin (C) 23,001 46.94 James Raven
(LD) 11,554 23.58 Darren Barrenger (Lab) 9,774 19.95 Simon Anselmi (UKIP) 2,527
5.16 Stephen Robey (BNP) 1,065 2.17 Chris Fox (Green) 909 1.86 Peter Thompson
Bates (Ind) 170 0.35 Maj. 11,447 23.36 C hold. Electorate 70,743. Turnout 69.26%
May 2005: C 20,285 (42.61%). Lab 14,702 (30.89%). LD 9,162 (19.25%). UKIP 1,735
(3.64%). Green 1,718 (3.61%). Turnout 66.96%. 298 HASTINGS & RYE Amber Rudd (C)
20,468 41.09 +Michael Foster (Lab) 18,475 37.09 Nicholas Perry (LD) 7,825 15.71
Anthony Smith (UKIP) 1,397 2.80 Nicholas Prince (BNP) 1,310 2.63 Rodney Bridger
(Eng Dem) 339 0.68 Maj. 1,993 4.00 C gain from Lab. Electorate 78,000. Turnout
63.86% May 2005: Lab 18,519 (40.63%). C 17,363 (38.09%). LD 7,228 (15.86%). UKIP
1,233 (2.71%). Green 1,032 (2.26%). Others 207 (0.45%). Turnout 58.95%. 299
HAVANT +David Willetts (C) 22,433 51.10 Alex Payton (LD) 10,273 23.40 Robert
Smith (Lab) 7,777 17.71 Gary Kerrin (UKIP) 2,611 5.95 Fungus Addams (Eng Dem)
809 1.84 Maj. 12,160 27.70 C hold. Electorate 69,712. Turnout 62.98% May 2005: C
18,192 (44.33%). Lab 11,797 (28.75%). LD 8,293 (20.21%). Green 1,006 (2.45%).
UKIP 991 (2.41%). Others 757 (1.84%). Turnout 60.48%. 300 HAYES & HARLINGTON
+John McDonnell (Lab) 23,377 54.83 Scott Seaman-Digby (C) 12,553 29.44 Satnam
Kaur Khalsa (LD) 3,726 8.74 Chris Forster (BNP) 1,520 3.56 Andrew Cripps (NF)
566 1.33 Cliff Dixon (Eng Dem) 464 1.09 Jessica Lee (Green) 348 0.82 Aneel
Shahzad (Ch P) 83 0.19 Maj. 10,824 25.39 Lab hold. Electorate 70,233. Turnout
60.71% May 2005: Lab 20,844 (56.43%). C 10,250 (27.75%). LD 3,637 (9.85%).
Others 1,050 (2.84%). UKIP 623 (1.69%). Green 535 (1.45%). Turnout 55.30%. 301
HAZEL GROVE +Andrew Stunell (LD) 20,485 48.80 Annesley Abercorn (C) 14,114 33.62
Richard Scorer (Lab) 5,234 12.47 John Whittaker (UKIP) 2,148 5.12 Maj. 6,371
15.18 LD hold. Electorate 63,074. Turnout 66.56% May 2005: LD 19,423 (50.28%). C
11,729 (30.36%). Lab 6,219 (16.10%). UKIP 1,258 (3.26%). Turnout 61.32%. 302
HEMEL HEMPSTEAD +Mike Penning (C) 24,721 49.97 Dr Richard Grayson (LD) 11,315
22.87 Ayfer Orhan (Lab) 10,295 20.81 Janet Price (BNP) 1,615 3.26 David
Alexander (UKIP) 1,254 2.53 Mick Young (Ind) 271 0.55 Maj. 13,406 27.10 C hold.
Electorate 72,754. Turnout 68.00% May 2005: C 18,567 (40.12%). Lab 18,399
(39.75%). LD 7,823 (16.90%). UKIP 1,492 (3.22%). Turnout 64.29%. 303 HEMSWORTH
+Jon Trickett (Lab) 20,506 46.77 Ann Myatt (C) 10,662 24.32 Alan Belmore (LD)
5,667 12.93 Ian Womersley (Ind) 3,946 9.00 Ian Kitchen (BNP) 3,059 6.98 Maj.
9,844 22.45 Lab hold. Electorate 72,552. Turnout 60.43% May 2005: Lab 22,542
(58.67%). C 8,516 (22.16%). LD 6,034 (15.70%). Others 1,329 (3.46%). Turnout
54.30%. 304 HENDON Matthew Offord (C) 19,635 42.34 +Andrew Dismore (Lab) 19,529
42.11 Matthew Harris (LD) 5,734 12.36 Robin Lambert (UKIP) 958 2.07 Andrew Newby
(Green) 518 1.12 Maj. 106 0.23 C gain from Lab. Electorate 78,923. Turnout
58.76% May 2005: Lab 18,101 (45.15%). C 14,870 (37.09%). LD 5,657 (14.11%).
Green 724 (1.81%). UKIP 611 (1.52%). Others 124 (0.31%). Turnout 58.86%. 305
HENLEY +John Howell (C) 30,054 56.15 Andrew Crick (LD) 13,466 25.16 Richard
McKenzie (Lab) 5,835 10.90 Laurence Hughes (UKIP) 1,817 3.39 Mark Stevenson
(Green) 1,328 2.48 John Bews (BNP) 1,020 1.91 Maj. 16,588 30.99 C hold.
Electorate 75,005. Turnout 71.36% May 2005: C 26,208 (53.20%). LD 12,842
(26.07%). Lab 7,397 (15.02%). Green 1,600 (3.25%). UKIP 1,216 (2.47%). Turnout
67.78%. 306 HEREFORD & HEREFORDSHIRE SOUTH Jesse Norman (C) 22,366 46.23 Sarah
Carr (LD) 19,885 41.10 Philippa Roberts (Lab) 3,506 7.25 Valentine Smith (UKIP)
1,638 3.39 John Oliver (BNP) 986 2.04 Maj. 2,481 5.13 C gain from LD. Electorate
71,435. Turnout 67.73% May 2005: LD 19,793 (43.39%). C 18,704 (41.00%). Lab
4,678 (10.25%). Green 1,034 (2.27%). UKIP 1,007 (2.21%). Others 404 (0.89%).
Turnout 66.09%. 307 HEREFORDSHIRE NORTH +Bill Wiggin (C) 24,631 51.78 Lucy Hurds
(LD) 14,744 31.00 Neil Sabharwal (Lab) 3,373 7.09 Jonathan Oakton (UKIP) 2,701
5.68 Felicity Norman (Green) 1,533 3.22 John King (Ind) 586 1.23 Maj. 9,887
20.78 C hold. Electorate 66,525. Turnout 71.50% May 2005: C 23,422 (52.49%). LD
10,734 (24.05%). Lab 6,926 (15.52%). Green 2,092 (4.69%). UKIP 1,449 (3.25%).
Turnout 69.25%. 308 HERTFORD & STORTFORD +Mark Prisk (C) 29,810 53.83 Andrew
Lewin (LD) 14,373 25.95 Steve Terry (Lab) 7,620 13.76 David Sodey (UKIP) 1,716
3.10 Roy Harris (BNP) 1,297 2.34 Loucas Xenophontos (Ind) 325 0.59 Martin Adams
(Ind) 236 0.43 Maj. 15,437 27.88 C hold. Electorate 78,459. Turnout 70.58% May
2005: C 24,673 (50.20%). Lab 11,917 (24.25%). LD 9,056 (18.43%). Green 1,914
(3.89%). UKIP 1,017 (2.07%). Others 572 (1.16%). Turnout 66.53%. 309
HERTFORDSHIRE NORTH EAST +Oliver Heald (C) 26,995 53.53 Hugh Annand (LD) 11,801
23.40 David Kirkman (Lab) 8,291 16.44 Adrianne Smyth (UKIP) 2,075 4.12 Rosemary
Bland (Green) 875 1.74 Richard Campbell (Ind) 209 0.41 David Ralph (YRDPL) 143
0.28 Philip Reichardt (Ind) 36 0.07 Maj. 15,194 30.13 C hold. Electorate 72,200.
Turnout 69.84% May 2005: C 23,149 (48.07%). Lab 13,639 (28.32%). LD 9,782
(20.31%). UKIP 1,587 (3.30%). Turnout 66.67%. 310 HERTFORDSHIRE SOUTH WEST
+David Gauke (C) 30,773 54.23 Christopher Townsend (LD) 15,853 27.93 Harry Mann
(Lab) 6,526 11.50 Mark Benson (UKIP) 1,450 2.56 Deirdre Gates (BNP) 1,302 2.29
James Hannaway (Ind) 846 1.49 Maj. 14,920 26.29 C hold. Electorate 78,248.
Turnout 72.53% May 2005: C 23,927 (46.99%). LD 15,287 (30.02%). Lab 10,568
(20.76%). UKIP 1,133 (2.23%). Turnout 68.75%. 311 HERTSMERE *James Clappison (C)
26,476 56.01 Sam Russell (Lab) 8,871 18.77 Anthony Rowlands (LD) 8,210 17.37
David Rutter (UKIP) 1,712 3.62 Daniel Seabrook (BNP) 1,397 2.96 Arjuna
Krishna-Das (Green) 604 1.28 Maj. 17,605 37.24 C hold. Swing 5.59 Lab to C.
Electorate 73,062. Turnout 64.70% May 2005: Clappison C 22,665 (53.24%). Tebb
Lab 11,572 (27.18%). Davies LD 7,817 (18.36%). Dry Soc Lab 518 (1.22%). Turnout
63.00%. 312 HEXHAM Guy Opperman (C) 18,795 43.22 Andrew Duffield (LD) 13,007
29.91 Antoine Tinnion (Lab) 8,253 18.98 Steve Ford (Ind) 1,974 4.54 Quentin
Hawkins (BNP) 1,205 2.77 Colin Moss (Ind) 249 0.57 Maj. 5,788 13.31 C hold.
Electorate 61,375. Turnout 70.85% May 2005: C 17,463 (42.39%). Lab 12,506
(30.36%). LD 10,578 (25.68%). Others 650 (1.58%). Turnout 68.64%. 313 HEYWOOD &
MIDDLETON +Jim Dobbin (Lab) 18,499 40.11 Michael Holly (C) 12,528 27.16 Wera
Hobhouse (LD) 10,474 22.71 Peter Greenwood (BNP) 3,239 7.02 Victoria Cecil (UKIP
) 1,215 2.63 Chrissy Lee (Ind) 170 0.37 Maj. 5,971 12.95 Lab hold. Electorate
80,171. Turnout 57.53% May 2005: Lab 20,059 (48.31%). C 9,025 (21.74%). LD 8,403
(20.24%). Others 3,232 (7.78%). UKIP 800 (1.93%). Turnout 53.88%. 314 HIGH PEAK

Andrew Bingham (C) 20,587 40.90 Caitlin Bisknell (Lab) 15,910 31.61 Alistair
Stevens (LD) 10,993 21.84 Sylvia Hall (UKIP) 1,690 3.36 Peter Allen (Green) 922
1.83 Lance Dowson (Ind) 161 0.32 Tony Alves (ND) 74 0.15 Maj. 4,677 9.29 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 71,973. Turnout 69.94% May 2005: Lab 18,950 (41.12%). C
17,200 (37.32%). LD 8,946 (19.41%). UKIP 989 (2.15%). Turnout 66.10%. 315
HITCHIN & HARPENDEN +Peter Lilley (C) 29,869 54.60 Nigel Quinton (LD) 14,598
26.68 Oliver de Botton (Lab) 7,413 13.55 Graham Wilkinson (UKIP) 1,663 3.04
Richard Wise (Green) 807 1.48 Margaret Henderson (Ind) 109 0.20 Simon Byron (R
and E) 108 0.20 Eric Hannah (YRDPL) 90 0.16 Peter Rigby (Ind) 50 0.09 Maj.
15,271 27.91 C hold. Electorate 73,851. Turnout 74.08% May 2005: C 23,866
(49.41%). LD 12,802 (26.50%). Lab 10,593 (21.93%). UKIP 845 (1.75%). Others 199
(0.41%). Turnout 68.64%. 316 HOLBORN & ST PANCRAS +Frank Dobson (Lab) 25,198
46.11 Jo Shaw (LD) 15,256 27.92 George Lee (C) 11,134 20.37 Natalie Bennett
(Green) 1,480 2.71 Robert Carlyle (BNP) 779 1.43 Max Spencer (UKIP) 587 1.07
John Chapman (Ind) 96 0.18 Mikel Susperregi (Eng Dem) 75 0.14 Iain Meek (Ind) 44
0.08 Maj. 9,942 18.19 Lab hold. Electorate 86,863. Turnout 62.91% May 2005: Lab
19,872 (45.11%). LD 11,524 (26.16%). C 9,203 (20.89%). Green 3,299 (7.49%).
Others 152 (0.35%). Turnout 53.23%. 317 HORNCHURCH & UPMINSTER +Angela Watkinson
(C) 27,469 51.45 Kath McGuirk (Lab) 11,098 20.79 Karen Chilvers (LD) 7,426 13.91
William Whelpley (BNP) 3,421 6.41 Lawrence Webb (UKIP) 2,848 5.33 Melanie
Collins (Green) 542 1.02 David Durant (Ind) 305 0.57 Johnson Olukotun (Ch P) 281
0.53 Maj. 16,371 30.66 C hold. Electorate 78,487. Turnout 68.02% May 2005: C
23,375 (47.50%). Lab 15,317 (31.13%). Others 4,718 (9.59%). LD 4,184 (8.50%).
UKIP 1,071 (2.18%). Green 543 (1.10%). Turnout 63.28%. 318 HORNSEY & WOOD GREEN
*Lynne Featherstone (LD) 25,595 46.50 Karen Jennings (Lab) 18,720 34.01 Richard
Merrin (C) 9,174 16.67 Pete McAskie (Green) 1,261 2.29 Stephane De Roche (Ind)
201 0.37 Rohen Kapur (Ind) 91 0.17 Maj. 6,875 12.49 LD hold. Swing 3.72 Lab to
LD. Electorate 79,916. Turnout 68.87% May 2005: Featherstone LD 20,512 (43.34%).
Roche Lab 18,117 (38.28%). Forrest C 6,014 (12.71%). Forbes Green 2,377 (5.02%).
Freshwater UKIP 310 (0.65%). Turnout 61.77%. 319 HORSHAM +Francis Maude (C)
29,447 52.73 Godfrey Newman (LD) 17,987 32.21 Andrew Skudder (Lab) 4,189 7.50
Harry Aldridge (UKIP) 2,839 5.08 Nick Fitter (Green) 570 1.02 Steve Lyon (Ch P)
469 0.84 Jim Duggan (PPN-V) 253 0.45 Derek Kissach (Ind) 87 0.16 Maj. 11,460
20.52 C hold. Electorate 76,835. Turnout 72.68% May 2005: C 24,557 (49.34%). LD
13,777 (27.68%). Lab 8,316 (16.71%). UKIP 2,350 (4.72%). Others 770 (1.55%).
Turnout 67.13%. 320 HOUGHTON & SUNDERLAND SOUTH Bridget Phillipson (Lab) 19,137
50.33 Robert Oliver (C) 8,147 21.43 Chris Boyle (LD) 5,292 13.92 Colin Wakefield
(Ind) 2,462 6.48 Karen Allen (BNP) 1,961 5.16 Richard Elvin (UKIP) 1,022 2.69
Maj. 10,990 28.91 Lab hold. Electorate 68,729. Turnout 55.32% May 2005: Lab
23,007 (62.01%). C 6,021 (16.23%). LD 5,395 (14.54%). Others 2,682 (7.23%).
Turnout 53.22%. 321 HOVE Mike Weatherley (C) 18,294 36.72 +Celia Barlow (Lab)
16,426 32.97 Paul Elgood (LD) 11,240 22.56 Ian Davey (Green) 2,568 5.15 Paul
Perrin (UKIP) 1,206 2.42 Brian Ralfe (Ind) 85 0.17 Maj. 1,868 3.75 C gain from
Lab. Electorate 71,708. Turnout 69.47% May 2005: Lab 16,829 (37.44%). C 16,381
(36.44%). LD 8,077 (17.97%). Green 2,593 (5.77%). UKIP 577 (1.28%). Others 495
(1.10%). Turnout 62.78%. 322 HUDDERSFIELD +Barry Sheerman (Lab) 15,725 38.80
Karen Tweed (C) 11,253 27.77 James Blanchard (LD) 10,023 24.73 Andrew Cooper
(Green) 1,641 4.05 Rachel Firth (BNP) 1,563 3.86 Paul Cooney (TUSC) 319 0.79
Maj. 4,472 11.04 Lab hold. Electorate 66,316. Turnout 61.11% May 2005: Lab
16,402 (46.38%). LD 8,519 (24.09%). C 7,447 (21.06%). Green 1,633 (4.62%).
Others 1,361 (3.85%). Turnout 56.61%. 323 HULL EAST Karl Turner (Lab) 16,387
47.94 Jeremy Wilcock (LD) 7,790 22.79 Christine Mackay (C) 5,667 16.58 Mike
Hookem (UKIP) 2,745 8.03 Joe Uttley (NF) 880 2.57 Mike Burton (Eng Dem) 715 2.09
Maj. 8,597 25.15 Lab hold. Electorate 67,530. Turnout 50.62% May 2005: Lab
18,361 (56.06%). LD 6,621 (20.21%). C 4,258 (13.00%). Others 3,513 (10.73%).
Turnout 47.60%. 324 HULL NORTH +Diana Johnson (Lab) 13,044 39.18 Denis Healy
(LD) 12,403 37.26 Victoria Aitken (C) 4,365 13.11 John Mainprize (BNP) 1,443
4.33 Paul Barlow (UKIP) 1,358 4.08 Martin Deane (Green) 478 1.44 Michael Cassidy
(Eng Dem) 200 0.60 Maj. 641 1.93 Lab hold. Electorate 64,082. Turnout 51.95% May
2005: Lab 14,679 (52.26%). LD 7,295 (25.97%). C 3,730 (13.28%). Others 1,527
(5.44%). Green 858 (3.05%). Turnout 46.10%. 325 HULL WEST & HESSLE +Alan Johnson
(Lab) 13,378 42.46 Mike Ross (LD) 7,636 24.24 Gary Shores (C) 6,361 20.19 Ken
Hordon (UKIP) 1,688 5.36 Edward Scott (BNP) 1,416 4.49 Peter Mawer (Eng Dem) 876
2.78 Keith Gibson (TUSC) 150 0.48 Maj. 5,742 18.23 Lab hold. Electorate 69,017.
Turnout 45.65% May 2005: Lab 15,244 (55.06%). LD 5,814 (21.00%). C 5,741
(20.73%). Others 889 (3.21%). Turnout 44.76%. 326 HUNTINGDON +Jonathan Djanogly
(C) 26,516 48.86 Martin Land (LD) 15,697 28.93 Anthea Cox (Lab) 5,982 11.02 Ian
Curtis (UKIP) 3,258 6.00 Jonathan Salt (Ind) 1,432 2.64 John Clare (Green) 652
1.20 Toby Jug (Loony) 548 1.01 Carrie Holliman (APP) 181 0.33 Maj. 10,819 19.94
C hold. Electorate 83,557. Turnout 64.94% May 2005: C 24,541 (50.76%). LD 12,889
(26.66%). Lab 8,898 (18.40%). UKIP 2,021 (4.18%). Turnout 62.62%. 327 HYNDBURN
Graham Jones (Lab) 17,531 41.08 Karen Buckley (C) 14,441 33.84 Andrew Rankine
(LD) 5,033 11.79 David Shapcott (BNP) 2,137 5.01 Granville Barker (UKIP) 1,481
3.47 Kevin Logan (CPA) 795 1.86 Kerry Gormley (Green) 463 1.09 Christopher Reid
(Eng Dem) 413 0.97 Craig Hall (Ind) 378 0.89 Maj. 3,090 7.24 Lab hold.
Electorate 67,221. Turnout 63.48% May 2005: Lab 18,308 (45.70%). C 12,780
(31.90%). LD 5,750 (14.35%). Others 2,468 (6.16%). UKIP 753 (1.88%). Turnout
58.79%. 328 ILFORD NORTH +Lee Scott (C) 21,506 45.74 Sonia Klein (Lab) 16,102
34.25 Alex Berhanu (LD) 5,966 12.69 Danny Warville (BNP) 1,545 3.29 Henri van
der Stighelen (UKIP) 871 1.85 Caroline Allen (Green) 572 1.22 Robert Hampson
(CPA) 456 0.97 Maj. 5,404 11.49 C hold. Electorate 71,995. Turnout 65.31% May
2005: C 18,349 (43.77%). Lab 16,614 (39.64%). LD 5,778 (13.78%). UKIP 883
(2.11%). Others 293 (0.70%). Turnout 61.13%. 329 ILFORD SOUTH *Mike Gapes (Lab
Co-op) 25,301 49.42 Toby Boutle (C) 14,014 27.38 Anood Al-Samerai (LD) 8,679
16.95 Wilson Chowdhry (Green) 1,319 2.58 Terry Murray (UKIP) 1,132 2.21 John
Jestico (King George) 746 1.46 Maj. 11,287 22.05 Lab Co-op hold. Swing 0.22 C to
Lab. Electorate 75,246. Turnout 68.03% May 2005: Gapes Lab Co-op 20,856
(48.85%). Metcalfe C 11,628 (27.24%). Lake LD 8,761 (20.52%). Rana BPP 763
(1.79%). Taylor UKIP 685 (1.60%). Turnout 53.61%. 330 INVERCLYDE *David Cairns
(Lab) 20,993 55.98 Innes Nelson (SNP) 6,567 17.51 Simon Hutton (LD) 5,007 13.35
David Wilson (C) 4,502 12.00 Peter Campbell (UKIP) 433 1.15 Maj. 14,426 38.47
Lab hold. Swing 3.64 SNP to Lab. Electorate 59,209. Turnout 63.34% May 2005:
Cairns Lab 18,318 (50.75%). McMillan SNP 7,059 (19.56%). Herbison LD 6,123
(16.96%). Fraser C 3,692 (10.23%). Landels SSP 906 (2.51%). Turnout 60.88%. 331
INVERNESS, NAIRN, BADENOCH & STRATHSPEY *Danny Alexander (LD) 19,172 40.72 Mike
Robb (Lab) 10,407 22.10 John Finnie (SNP) 8,803 18.70 Jim Ferguson (C) 6,278
13.33 Dr Donald Boyd (Ch P) 835 1.77 Donnie MacLeod (Green) 789 1.68 Ross
Durance (UKIP) 574 1.22 George MacDonald (TUSC) 135 0.29 Kit Fraser (Joy) 93
0.20 Maj. 8,765 18.61 LD hold. Swing 4.62 Lab to LD. Electorate 72,528. Turnout
64.92% May 2005: Alexander LD 17,830 (40.29%). Stewart Lab 13,682 (30.92%).
Thompson SNP 5,992 (13.54%). Rowantree C 4,579 (10.35%). MacLeod Green 1,065
(2.41%). Lawson Publican 678 (1.53%). MacDonald SSP 429 (0.97%). Turnout 63.55%.
332 IPSWICH Ben Gummer (C) 18,371 39.14 +Chris Mole (Lab) 16,292 34.71 Mark
Dyson (LD) 8,556 18.23 Chris Streatfield (UKIP) 1,365 2.91 Dennis Boater (BNP)
1,270 2.71 Tim Glover (Green) 775 1.65 Kim Christofi (Ch P) 149 0.32 Peter
Turtill (Ind) 93 0.20 Sally Wainman (Ind) 70 0.15 Maj. 2,079 4.43 C gain from
Lab. Electorate 78,371. Turnout 59.90% May 2005: Lab 19,020 (42.92%). C 13,785
(31.10%). LD 9,368 (21.14%). UKIP 1,207 (2.72%). Others 940 (2.12%). Turnout
60.09%. 333 ISLE OF WIGHT *Andrew Turner (C) 32,810 46.70 Jill Wareham (LD)
22,283 31.71 Mark Chiverton (Lab) 8,169 11.63 Mike Tarrant (UKIP) 2,435 3.47
Geof Clynch (BNP) 1,457 2.07 Ian Dunsire (Eng Dem) 1,233 1.75 Bob Keats (Green)
931 1.33 Paul Martin (Mid England) 616 0.88 Pete Harris (Ind) 175 0.25 Paul
Randle-Jolliffe (Ind) 89 0.13 Edward Corby (Ind) 66 0.09 Maj. 10,527 14.98 C
hold. Swing 2.22 C to LD. Electorate 109,966. Turnout 63.90% May 2005: Turner C
32,717 (48.95%). Rowlands LD 19,739 (29.53%). Chiverton Lab 11,484 (17.18%).
Tarrant UKIP 2,352 (3.52%). Corby Ind 551 (0.82%). Turnout 61.30%. 334 ISLINGTON
NORTH *Jeremy Corbyn (Lab) 24,276 54.49 Rhodri Jamieson-Ball (LD) 11,875 26.65
Adrian Berrill-Cox (C) 6,339 14.23 Emma Dixon (Green) 1,348 3.03 Dominic Lennon
(UKIP) 716 1.61 Maj. 12,401 27.83 Lab hold. Swing 3.25 LD to Lab. Electorate
68,120. Turnout 65.41% May 2005: Corbyn Lab 16,118 (51.18%). Willoughby LD 9,402
(29.85%). Talbot C 3,740 (11.88%). Nott Green 2,234 (7.09%). Turnout 53.90%. 335
ISLINGTON SOUTH & FINSBURY *Emily Thornberry (Lab) 18,407 42.26 Bridget Fox (LD)
14,838 34.07 Antonia Cox (C) 8,449 19.40 James Humphreys (Green) 710 1.63
Rose-Marie McDonald (UKIP) 701 1.61 John Dodds (Eng Dem) 301 0.69 Richard Deboo
(Animals) 149 0.34 Maj. 3,569 8.19 Lab hold. Swing 3.32 LD to Lab. Electorate
67,649. Turnout 64.38% May 2005: Thornberry Lab 12,345 (39.87%). Fox LD 11,861
(38.31%). McLean C 4,594 (14.84%). Humphries Green 1,471 (4.75%). Theophanides
UKIP 470 (1.52%). Gardner Loony 189 (0.61%). Gidden Ind 31 (0.10%). Turnout
53.61%. 336 ISLWYN Christopher Evans (Lab Co-op) 17,069 49.20 Daniel Thomas (C)
4,854 13.99 Steffan Lewis (PC) 4,518 13.02 Asghar Ali (LD) 3,597 10.37 Dave Rees
(Ind) 1,495 4.31 John Voisey (BNP) 1,320 3.81 Jason Crew (UKIP) 936 2.70 Paul
Taylor (Ind) 901 2.60 Maj. 12,215 35.21 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 54,826.
Turnout 63.27% May 2005: Lab 21,795 (64.35%). PC 4,213 (12.44%). LD 4,128
(12.19%). C 3,735 (11.03%). Turnout 60.24%. 337 JARROW +Stephen Hepburn (Lab)
20,910 53.91 Jeffrey Milburn (C) 8,002 20.63 Tom Appleby (LD) 7,163 18.47 Andy
Swaddle (BNP) 2,709 6.98 Maj. 12,908 33.28 Lab hold. Electorate 64,350. Turnout
60.27% May 2005: 4,485 (12.79%). UKIP 1,664 (4.74%). Others 400 (1.14%). Turnout
54.76%. 338 KEIGHLEY Kris Hopkins (C) 20,003 41.94 Jane Thomas (Lab) 17,063
35.78 Nader Fekri (LD) 7,059 14.80 Andrew Brons (BNP) 1,962 4.11 Paul Latham (
UKIP) 1,470 3.08 Steven Smith (NF) 135 0.28 Maj. 2,940 6.16 C gain from Lab.
Swing 8.32 Lab to C. Electorate 65,893. Turnout 72.38% May 2005: Cryer Lab
20,720 (44.74%). Poulsen C 15,868 (34.26%). Fekri LD 5,484 (11.84%). Griffin BNP
4,240 (9.16%). Turnout 67.88%. 339 KENILWORTH & SOUTHAM +Jeremy Wright (C)
25,945 53.57 Nigel Rock (LD) 13,393 27.65 Nicholas Milton (Lab) 6,949 14.35 John
Moore (UKIP) 1,214 2.51 James Harrison (Green) 568 1.17 Joe Rukin (Ind) 362 0.75
Maj. 12,552 25.92 C hold. Electorate 59,630. Turnout 81.22% May 2005: C 22,245
(50.35%). Lab 11,289 (25.55%). LD 9,736 (22.04%). UKIP 910 (2.06%). Turnout
70.20%. 340 KENSINGTON +Sir Malcolm Rifkind (C) 17,595 50.06 Sam Gurney (Lab)
8,979 25.54 Robin Meltzer (LD) 6,872 19.55 Caroline Pearson (UKIP) 754 2.15
Zahra-Melan Ebrahimi-Fardouee (Green)753 2.14 Eddie Adams (Green Soc) 197 0.56
Maj. 8,616 24.51 C hold. Electorate 65,961. Turnout 53.29% May 2005: 6,467
(20.13%). Green 1,468 (4.57%). UKIP 372 (1.16%). Others 208 (0.65%). Turnout
51.82%. 341 KETTERING +Philip Hollobone (C) 23,247 49.12 Phil Sawford (Lab)
14,153 29.90 Chris Nelson (LD) 7,498 15.84 Clive Skinner (BNP) 1,366 2.89 Derek
Hilling (Eng Dem) 952 2.01 Dave Bishop (BP Elvis) 112 0.24 Maj. 9,094 19.21 C
hold. Electorate 68,837. Turnout 68.75% May 2005: C 19,274 (42.95%). Lab 19,098
(42.56%). LD 5,488 (12.23%). UKIP 1,015 (2.26%). Turnout 69.18%. 342 KILMARNOCK
& LOUDOUN Cathy Jamieson (Lab Co-op) 24,460 52.54 George Leslie (SNP) 12,082
25.95 Janette McAlpine (C) 6,592 14.16 Sebastian Tombs (LD) 3,419 7.34 Maj.
12,378 26.59 Lab Co-op hold. Swing 3.49 SNP to Lab. Electorate 74,131. Turnout
62.80% May 2005: Browne Lab 20,976 (47.26%). Coffey SNP 12,273 (27.65%). Smith C
5,026 (11.32%). Lang LD 4,945 (11.14%). Kerr SSP 833 (1.88%). Robertson UKIP 330
(0.74%). Turnout 60.92%. 343 KINGSTON & SURBITON +Edward Davey (LD) 28,428 49.78
Helen Whately (C) 20,868 36.54 Max Freedman (Lab) 5,337 9.34 Jonathan Greensted
(UKIP) 1,450 2.54 Chris Walker (Green) 555 0.97 Monkey the Drummer (Loony) 247
0.43 Anthony May (CPA) 226 0.40 Maj. 7,560 13.24 LD hold. Electorate 81,116.
Turnout 70.41% May 2005: LD 25,637 (51.10%). C 16,553 (32.99%). Lab 6,610
(13.17%). Others 712 (1.42%). UKIP 661 (1.32%). Turnout 67.71%. 344 KINGSWOOD
Chris Skidmore (C) 19,362 40.42 +Roger Berry (Lab) 16,917 35.31 Sally Fitzharris
(LD) 8,072 16.85 Neil Dowdney (UKIP) 1,528 3.19 Michael Carey (BNP) 1,311 2.74
Nick Foster (Green) 383 0.80 Michael Blundell (Eng Dem) 333 0.70 Maj. 2,445 5.10
C gain from Lab. Electorate 66,361. Turnout 72.19% May 2005: Lab 20,498
(45.91%). C 14,353 (32.15%). LD 8,054 (18.04%). UKIP 1,073 (2.40%). Others 669
(1.50%). Turnout 69.19%. 345 KIRKCALDY & COWDENBEATH *Gordon Brown (Lab) 29,559
64.54 Douglas Chapman (SNP) 6,550 14.30 John Mainland (LD) 4,269 9.32 Lindsay
Paterson (C) 4,258 9.30 Peter Adams (UKIP) 760 1.66 Susan Archibald (Ind) 184
0.40 Donald MacLaren of MacLaren (Ind) 165 0.36 Derek Jackson (Land) 57 0.12
Maj. 23,009 50.24 Lab hold. Swing 3.33 SNP to Lab. Electorate 73,665. Turnout
62.18% May 2005: Brown Lab 24,278 (58.09%). Bath SNP 6,062 (14.50%).
Cole-Hamilton LD 5,450 (13.04%). Randall C 4,308 (10.31%). West SSP 666 (1.59%).
Adams UKIP 516 (1.23%). Parker Scot Senior 425 (1.02%). Kwantes Ind K 47
(0.11%). Sargent Ind 44 (0.11%). Turnout 58.37%. 346 KNOWSLEY +George Howarth
(Lab) 31,650 70.87 Flo Clucas (LD) 5,964 13.35 David Dunne (C) 4,004 8.97 Steven
Greenhalgh (BNP) 1,895 4.24 Anthony Rundle (UKIP) 1,145 2.56 Maj. 25,686 57.52
Lab hold. Electorate 79,561. Turnout 56.13% May 2005: 4,709 (11.23%). Others
1,336 (3.19%). Turnout 53.78%. 348 LANARK & HAMILTON EAST *Jim Hood (Lab) 23,258
49.96 Clare Adamson (SNP) 9,780 21.01 Colin McGavigan (C) 6,981 15.00 Douglas
Herbison (LD) 5,249 11.28 Duncan McFarlane (Ind) 670 1.44 Rob Sale (UKIP) 616
1.32 Maj. 13,478 28.95 Lab hold. Swing 0.34 SNP to Lab. Electorate 74,773.
Turnout 62.26% May 2005: Hood Lab 20,072 (46.05%). Grieve LD 8,125 (18.64%).
Wilson SNP 7,746 (17.77%). Pettigrew C 5,576 (12.79%). Reilly SSP 802 (1.84%).
Mackay UKIP 437 (1.00%). McFarlane Ind 416 (0.95%). Mawhinney OCV 415 (0.95%).
Turnout 59.11%. 349 LANCASHIRE WEST *Rosie Cooper (Lab) 21,883 45.14 Adrian
Owens (C) 17,540 36.19 John Gibson (LD) 6,573 13.56 Damon Noone (UKIP) 1,775
3.66 Peter Cranie (Green) 485 1.00 David Braid (Clause 28) 217 0.45 Maj. 4,343
8.96 Lab hold. Swing 2.57 Lab to C. Electorate 75,975. Turnout 63.80% May 2005:
Cooper Lab 20,746 (48.07%). Doran C 14,662 (33.98%). Kemp LD 6,059 (14.04%).
Freeman UKIP 871 (2.02%). Garrett Eng Dem 525 (1.22%). Braid Clause 28 292
(0.68%). Turnout 57.71%. 350 LANCASTER & FLEETWOOD Eric Ollerenshaw (C) 15,404
36.07 Clive Grunshaw (Lab) 15,071 35.29 Stuart Langhorn (LD) 8,167 19.13 Gina
Dowding (Green) 1,888 4.42 Fred McGlade (UKIP) 1,020 2.39 Debra Kent (BNP) 938
2.20 Keith Riley (Ind) 213 0.50 Maj. 333 0.78 C gain from Lab. Electorate
69,908. Turnout 61.08% May 2005: Lab 16,496 (42.43%). C 13,068 (33.61%). LD
6,081 (15.64%). Green 2,278 (5.86%). UKIP 953 (2.45%). Turnout 59.51%. 351 LEEDS
CENTRAL +Hilary Benn (Lab) 18,434 49.30 Michael Taylor (LD) 7,789 20.83 Alan
Lamb (C) 7,541 20.17 Kevin Meeson (BNP) 3,066 8.20 Dave Procter (Ind) 409 1.09
We Beat The Scum One-Nil (ND) 155 0.41 Maj. 10,645 28.47 Lab hold. Electorate
64,698. Turnout 57.80% May 2005: Lab 20,236 (59.50%). LD 7,320 (21.52%). C 4,320
(12.70%). Others 1,641 (4.83%). UKIP 491 (1.44%). Turnout 44.33%. 352 LEEDS EAST
+George Mudie (Lab) 19,056 50.40 Barry Anderson (C) 8,763 23.17 Andrew Tear (LD)
6,618 17.50 Trevor Brown (BNP) 2,947 7.79 Michael Davies (Green Soc) 429 1.13
Maj. 10,293 27.22 Lab hold. Electorate 65,067. Turnout 58.11% May 2005: Lab
21,423 (59.79%). C 7,734 (21.59%). LD 6,172 (17.23%). Others 500 (1.40%).
Turnout 56.14%. 353 LEEDS NORTH EAST +Fabian Hamilton (Lab) 20,287 42.68 Matthew
Lobley (C) 15,742 33.12 Aqila Choudhry (LD) 9,310 19.59 Warren Hendon (UKIP) 842
1.77 Tom Redmond (BNP) 758 1.59 Celia Foote (Green Soc) 596 1.25 Maj. 4,545 9.56
Lab hold. Electorate 67,899. Turnout 70.01% May 2005: Lab 19,937 (45.72%). C
13,175 (30.22%). LD 9,454 (21.68%). Others 1,038 (2.38%). Turnout 64.59%. 354
LEEDS NORTH WEST +Greg Mulholland (LD) 20,653 47.50 Julia Mulligan (C) 11,550
26.56 Judith Blake (Lab) 9,132 21.00 Geoffrey Bulmer (BNP) 766 1.76 Mark
Thackray (UKIP) 600 1.38 Martin Hemingway (Green) 508 1.17 Alan Procter (Eng
Dem) 153 0.35 Trevor Bavage (Green Soc) 121 0.28 Maj. 9,103 20.93 LD hold.
Electorate 65,399. Turnout 66.49% May 2005: LD 15,328 (36.87%). Lab 13,264
(31.91%). C 11,151 (26.82%). Green 1,103 (2.65%). Others 726 (1.75%). Turnout
62.77%. 355 LEEDS WEST Rachel Reeves (Lab) 16,389 42.29 Ruth Coleman (LD) 9,373
24.19 Joe Marjoram (C) 7,641 19.72 Joanna Beverley (BNP) 2,377 6.13 David
Blackburn (Green) 1,832 4.73 Jeff Miles (UKIP) 1,140 2.94 Maj. 7,016 18.10 Lab
hold. Electorate 67,453. Turnout 57.45% May 2005: Lab 19,831 (56.21%). LD 6,132
(17.38%). C 4,967 (14.08%). Green 2,544 (7.21%). Others 1,166 (3.30%). UKIP 643
(1.82%). Turnout 52.78%. 356 LEICESTER EAST +Keith Vaz (Lab) 25,804 53.76 Jane
Hunt (C) 11,722 24.42 Ali Asghar (LD) 6,817 14.20 Colin Gilmore (BNP) 1,700 3.54
Mo Taylor (Green) 733 1.53 Felicity Ransome (UKIP) 725 1.51 Avtar Sadiq (UPS)
494 1.03 Maj. 14,082 29.34 Lab hold. Electorate 72,986. Turnout 65.76% May 2005:
Lab 24,765 (58.72%). C 8,365 (19.83%). LD 6,945 (16.47%). Others 2,100 (4.98%).
Turnout 61.91%. 357 LEICESTER SOUTH +Sir Peter Soulsby (Lab) 21,479 45.58
Parmjit Singh Gill (LD) 12,671 26.89 Ross Grant (C) 10,066 21.36 Adrian Waudby
(BNP) 1,418 3.01 Dave Dixey (Green) 770 1.63 Christopher Lucas (UKIP) 720 1.53
Maj. 8,808 18.69 Lab hold. Electorate 77,175. Turnout 61.06% May 2005: Lab
16,702 (39.35%). LD 12,975 (30.57%). C 7,556 (17.80%). Others 3,824 (9.01%).
Green 1,389 (3.27%). Turnout 57.70%. 358 LEICESTER WEST Elizabeth Kendall (Lab)
13,745 38.37 Celia Harvey (C) 9,728 27.16 Peter Coley (LD) 8,107 22.63 Gary
Reynolds (BNP) 2,158 6.02 Stephen Ingall (UKIP) 883 2.47 Geoff Forse (Green) 639
1.78 Steven Huggins (Ind) 181 0.51 Steve Score (TUSC) 157 0.44 Shaun Dyer
(Pirate) 113 0.32 David Bowley (Ind) 108 0.30 Maj. 4,017 11.21 Lab hold.
Electorate 64,900. Turnout 55.19% May 2005: Lab 16,420 (50.80%). C 7,881
(24.38%). LD 5,906 (18.27%). Green 1,561 (4.83%). Others 552 (1.71%). Turnout
52.59%. 359 LEICESTERSHIRE NORTH WEST Andrew Bridgen (C) 23,147 44.55 Ross
Willmott (Lab) 15,636 30.10 Paul Reynolds (LD) 8,639 16.63 Ian Meller (BNP)
3,396 6.54 Martin Green (UKIP) 1,134 2.18 Maj. 7,511 14.46 C gain from Lab.
Swing 11.98 Lab to C. Electorate 71,219. Turnout 72.95% May 2005: Taylor Lab
Co-op 21,449 (45.50%). Le Page C 16,972 (36.00%). Keyes LD 5,682 (12.05%). Blunt
UKIP 1,563 (3.32%). Potter BNP 1,474 (3.13%). Turnout 66.85%. 360 LEICESTERSHIRE
SOUTH +Andrew Robathan (C) 27,000 49.47 Aladdin Ayesh (LD) 11,476 21.03 Sally
Gimson (Lab) 11,392 20.87 Paul Preston (BNP) 2,721 4.99 John Williams (UKIP)
1,988 3.64 Maj. 15,524 28.44 C hold. Electorate 76,639. Turnout 71.21% May 2005:
C 22,183 (45.41%). Lab 14,479 (29.64%). LD 9,294 (19.03%). Others 1,704 (3.49%).
UKIP 1,188 (2.43%). Turnout 65.26%. 361 LEIGH +Andy Burnham (Lab) 21,295 48.04
Shazia Awan (C) 9,284 20.94 Chris Blackburn (LD) 8,049 18.16 Gary Chadwick (BNP)
2,724 6.14 Mary Lavelle (UKIP) 1,535 3.46 Norman Bradbury (Ind) 988 2.23 Terry
Dainty (Ind) 320 0.72 Ryan Hessell (Ch P) 137 0.31 Maj. 12,011 27.09 Lab hold.
Electorate 76,350. Turnout 58.06% May 2005: Lab 22,544 (57.82%). LD 7,446
(19.10%). C 6,393 (16.40%). Others 2,604 (6.68%). Turnout 51.31%. 362 LEWES
+Norman Baker (LD) 26,048 52.00 Jason Sugarman (C) 18,401 36.74 Hratche
Koundarjian (Lab) 2,508 5.01 Peter Charlton (UKIP) 1,728 3.45 Susan Murray
(Green) 729 1.46 David Lloyd (BNP) 594 1.19 Ondrej Soucek (Ind) 80 0.16 Maj.
7,647 15.27 LD hold. Electorate 68,708. Turnout 72.90% May 2005: LD 24,071
(51.52%). C 16,182 (34.64%). Lab 4,370 (9.35%). Green 1,063 (2.28%). UKIP 1,033
(2.21%). Turnout 69.75%. 363 LEWISHAM DEPTFORD +Joan Ruddock (Lab) 22,132 53.69
Tam Langley (LD) 9,633 23.37 Gemma Townsend (C) 5,551 13.47 Darren Johnson
(Green) 2,772 6.72 Ian Page (Soc Alt) 645 1.56 Malcolm Martin (CPA) 487 1.18
Maj. 12,499 30.32 Lab hold. Electorate 67,058. Turnout 61.47%

May 2005: Lab 19,245 (55.37%). LD 6,233 (17.93%). C 4,413 (12.70%). Green 3,501
(10.07%). Others 742 (2.13%). UKIP 626 (1.80%). Turnout 50.86%. 364 LEWISHAM
EAST Heidi Alexander (Lab) 17,966 43.06 Pete Pattisson (LD) 11,750 28.16
Jonathan Clamp (C) 9,850 23.61 Roderick Reed (UKIP) 771 1.85 Priscilla Cotterell
(Green) 624 1.50 James Rose (Eng Dem) 426 1.02 George Hallam (CNBPG) 332 0.80
Maj. 6,216 14.90 Lab hold. Electorate 65,926. Turnout 63.28% May 2005: Lab
17,897 (47.63%). C 9,139 (24.32%). LD 7,482 (19.91%). Green 1,591 (4.23%). UKIP
844 (2.25%). Others 625 (1.66%). Turnout 54.78%. 365 LEWISHAM WEST & PENGE +Jim
Dowd (Lab) 18,501 41.09 Alex Feakes (LD) 12,673 28.14 Chris Phillips (C) 11,489
25.52 Peter Staveley (UKIP) 1,117 2.48 Romayne Phoenix (Green) 931 2.07 Stephen
Hammond (CPA) 317 0.70 Maj. 5,828 12.94 Lab hold. Electorate 69,022. Turnout
65.24% May 2005: Lab 18,801 (46.28%). LD 11,022 (27.13%). C 8,787 (21.63%). UKIP
1,036 (2.55%). Green 982 (2.42%). Turnout 57.41%. 366 LEYTON & WANSTEAD John
Cryer (Lab) 17,511 43.60 Farooq Qureshi (LD) 11,095 27.63 Ed Northover (C) 8,928
22.23 Graham Wood (UKIP) 1,080 2.69 Ashley Gunstock (Green) 562 1.40 Jim Clift
(BNP) 561 1.40 Sonika Bhatti (Ch P) 342 0.85 Martin Levin (Ind Fed) 80 0.20 Maj.
6,416 15.98 Lab hold. Electorate 63,541. Turnout 63.20% May 2005: Lab 15,748
(45.84%). LD 8,495 (24.73%). C 7,825 (22.78%). Green 1,522 (4.43%). UKIP 610
(1.78%). Others 155 (0.45%). Turnout 53.90%. 367 LICHFIELD +Michael Fabricant
(C) 28,048 54.40 Ian Jackson (LD) 10,365 20.10 Steve Hyden (Lab) 10,230 19.84
Karen Maunder (UKIP) 2,920 5.66 Maj. 17,683 34.29 C hold. Electorate 72,586.
Turnout 71.04% May 2005: C 23,009 (48.69%). Lab 15,218 (32.20%). LD 7,502
(15.87%). UKIP 1,529 (3.24%). Turnout 66.74%. 368 LINCOLN Karl McCartney (C)
17,163 37.54 +Gillian Merron (Lab) 16,105 35.22 Reg Shore (LD) 9,256 20.24
Robert West (BNP) 1,367 2.99 Nick Smith (UKIP) 1,004 2.20 Ernest Coleman (Eng
Dem) 604 1.32 Gary Walker (Ind) 222 0.49 Maj. 1,058 2.31 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 73,540. Turnout 62.17% May 2005: Lab 17,563 (43.71%). C 13,757
(34.24%). LD 7,387 (18.38%). UKIP 1,475 (3.67%). Turnout 57.26%. 369 LINLITHGOW
& FALKIRK EAST *Michael Connarty (Lab) 25,634 49.82 Tam Smith (SNP) 13,081 25.42
Stephen Glenn (LD) 6,589 12.81 Andrea Stephenson (C) 6,146 11.95 Maj. 12,553
24.40 Lab hold. Swing 0.13 SNP to Lab. Electorate 80,907. Turnout 63.59% May
2005: Connarty Lab 22,121 (47.69%). Guthrie SNP 10,919 (23.54%). Glenn LD 7,100
(15.31%). Veitch C 5,486 (11.83%). Hendry SSP 763 (1.64%). Turnout 60.45%. 370
LIVERPOOL RIVERSIDE +Louise Ellman (Lab) 22,998 59.27 Richard Marbrow (LD) 8,825
22.74 Kegang Wu (C) 4,243 10.94 Tom Crone (Green) 1,355 3.49 Peter Stafford
(BNP) 706 1.82 Pat Gaskell (UKIP) 674 1.74 Maj. 14,173 36.53 Lab hold.
Electorate 74,539. Turnout 52.05% May 2005: Lab 19,342 (59.24%). LD 7,611
(23.31%). C 2,963 (9.08%). Green 1,707 (5.23%). UKIP 528 (1.62%). Others 498
(1.53%). Turnout 42.64%. 371 LIVERPOOL WALTON Steve Rotheram (Lab) 24,709 71.96
Patrick Moloney (LD) 4,891 14.24 Adam Marsden (C) 2,241 6.53 Peter Stafford
(BNP) 1,104 3.22 Joe Nugent (UKIP) 898 2.62 John Manwell (CPA) 297 0.87 Daren
Ireland (TUSC) 195 0.57 Maj. 19,818 57.72 Lab hold. Electorate 62,612. Turnout
54.84% May 2005: Lab 23,070 (71.75%). LD 5,459 (16.98%). C 2,069 (6.43%). UKIP
1,075 (3.34%). Others 480 (1.49%). Turnout 46.76%. 372 LIVERPOOL WAVERTREE
Luciana Berger (Lab Co-op) 20,132 53.10 Colin Eldridge (LD) 12,965 34.20 Andrew
Garnett (C) 2,830 7.46 Neil Miney (UKIP) 890 2.35 Rebecca Lawson (Green) 598
1.58 Kim Singleton (Soc Lab) 200 0.53 Steven McEllenborough (BNP) 150 0.40 Frank
Dunne (Ind) 149 0.39 Maj. 7,167 18.90 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 62,518. Turnout
60.64% May 2005: Lab 16,181 (49.51%). LD 13,270 (40.60%). C 2,107 (6.45%). UKIP
652 (2.00%). Others 471 (1.44%). Turnout 47.81%. 373 LIVERPOOL WEST DERBY
Stephen Twigg (Lab Co-op) 22,953 64.14 Paul Twigger (LD) 4,486 12.54 Stephen
Radford (Lib) 3,327 9.30 Pamela Hall (C) 3,311 9.25 Hilary Jones (UKIP) 1,093
3.05 Kai Andersen (Soc Lab) 614 1.72 Maj. 18,467 51.61 Lab Co-op hold.
Electorate 63,082. Turnout 56.73% May 2005: Lab 18,547 (60.55%). LD 4,673
(15.26%). Others 4,304 (14.05%). C 2,519 (8.22%). UKIP 589 (1.92%). Turnout
45.68%. 374 LIVINGSTON Graeme Morrice (Lab) 23,215 48.46 Lis Bardell (SNP)
12,424 25.93 Charles Dundas (LD) 5,316 11.10 Alison Adamson-Ross (C) 5,158 10.77
David Orr (BNP) 960 2.00 Alistair Forrest (UKIP) 443 0.92 Ally Hendry (SSP) 242
0.51 Jim Slavin (Ind) 149 0.31 Maj. 10,791 22.52 Lab hold. Swing 3.51 Lab to
SNP. Electorate 75,924. Turnout 63.10% May 2005: Cook Lab 22,657 (51.10%).
Constance SNP 9,560 (21.56%). Dundas LD 6,832 (15.41%). Ross C 4,499 (10.15%).
Nimmo SSP 789 (1.78%). Turnout 58.07%. September 2005: Devine Lab 12,319
(41.79%). Constance SNP 9,639 (32.70%). Dundas LD 4,362 (14.80%). Lindhurst C
1,993 (6.76%). Robertson Green 529 (1.79%). Nimmo SSP 407 (1.38%). Adams UKIP
108 (0.37%). Brown Ind 55 (0.19%). Allman AFC 33 (0.11%). Gardner SPGB 32
(0.11%). Turnout 38.59%. 375 LLANELLI *Nia Griffith (Lab) 15,916 42.49 Myfanwy
Davies (PC) 11,215 29.94 Christopher Salmon (C) 5,381 14.36 Myrddin Edwards (LD)
3,902 10.42 Andrew Marshall (UKIP) 1,047 2.79 Maj. 4,701 12.55 Lab hold. Swing
3.96 Lab to PC. Electorate 55,637. Turnout 67.33% May 2005: Griffith Lab 16,592
(46.94%). Baker PC 9,358 (26.48%). Phillips C 4,844 (13.71%). Rees LD 4,550
(12.87%). Turnout 63.48%. 377 LOUGHBOROUGH Nicky Morgan (C) 21,971 41.58 +Andy
Reed (Lab Co-op) 18,227 34.50 Mike Willis (LD) 9,675 18.31 Kevan Stafford (BNP)
2,040 3.86 John Foden (UKIP) 925 1.75 Maj. 3,744 7.09 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 77,502. Turnout 68.18% May 2005: Lab 19,261 (41.19%). C 17,445
(37.31%). LD 8,354 (17.87%). UKIP 1,112 (2.38%). Others 588 (1.26%). Turnout
63.03%. 378 LOUTH & HORNCASTLE +Sir Peter Tapsell (C) 25,065 49.64 Fiona Martin
(LD) 11,194 22.17 Patrick Mountain (Lab) 8,760 17.35 Julia Green (BNP) 2,199
4.35 Pat Nurse (UKIP) 2,183 4.32 Daniel Simpson (Lincs Ind) 576 1.14 Colin Mair
(Eng Dem) 517 1.02 Maj. 13,871 27.47 C hold. Electorate 77,650. Turnout 65.03%
May 2005: C 21,598 (46.40%). Lab 11,785 (25.32%). LD 9,554 (20.53%). UKIP 3,611
(7.76%). Turnout 62.24%. 379 LUDLOW *Philip Dunne (C) 25,720 52.78 Heather Kidd
(LD) 15,971 32.77 Anthony Hunt (Lab) 3,272 6.71 Christopher Gill (UKIP) 2,127
4.36 Christina Evans (BNP) 1,016 2.08 Jacqui Morrish (Green) 447 0.92 Alan
Powell (Loony) 179 0.37 Maj. 9,749 20.01 C hold. Swing 7.82 LD to C. Electorate
66,631. Turnout 73.14% May 2005: Dunne C 20,979 (45.08%). Green LD 18,952
(40.72%). Knowles Lab 4,974 (10.69%). Gaffney Green 852 (1.83%). Zuckerman UKIP
783 (1.68%). Turnout 72.07%. 380 LUTON NORTH +Kelvin Hopkins (Lab) 21,192 49.26
Jeremy Brier (C) 13,672 31.78 Rabi Martins (LD) 4,784 11.12 Colin Brown (UKIP)
1,564 3.64 Shelley Rose (BNP) 1,316 3.06 Simon Hall (Green) 490 1.14 Maj. 7,520
17.48 Lab hold. Electorate 65,062. Turnout 66.12% May 2005: Lab 19,095 (48.60%).
C 12,656 (32.21%). LD 6,130 (15.60%). UKIP 1,259 (3.20%). Others 152 (0.39%).
Turnout 56.88%. 381 LUTON SOUTH Gavin Shuker (Lab Co-op) 14,725 34.88 Nigel
Huddleston (C) 12,396 29.36 Qurban Hussain (LD) 9,567 22.66 Esther Rantzen (Ind
Rantzen) 1,872 4.43 Tony Blakey (BNP) 1,299 3.08 Charles Lawman (UKIP) 975 2.31
Stephen Rhodes (Ind) 463 1.10 Marc Scheimann (Green) 366 0.87 Joe Hall (Ind) 264
0.63 Faruk Choudhury (Ind) 130 0.31 Stephen Lathwell (Ind) 84 0.20 Frank Sweeney
(WRP) 75 0.18 Maj. 2,329 5.52 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 59,962. Turnout 70.40%
May 2005: Lab 16,577 (42.78%). C 10,879 (28.08%). LD 8,729 (22.53%). UKIP 953
(2.46%). Others 820 (2.12%). Green 790 (2.04%). Turnout 53.79%. 382 MACCLESFIELD
David Rutley (C) 23,503 46.95 Roger Barlow (LD) 11,544 23.06 Adrian Heald (Lab)
10,164 20.30 Brendan Murphy (Macc Ind) 2,590 5.17 Jacqueline Smith (UKIP) 1,418
2.83 John Knight (Green) 840 1.68 Maj. 11,959 23.89 C hold. Electorate 73,417.
Turnout 68.18% May 2005: C 22,735 (49.64%). Lab 13,271 (28.98%). LD 8,945
(19.53%). Others 848 (1.85%). Turnout 62.50%. 383 MAIDENHEAD +Theresa May (C)
31,937 59.45 Tony Hill (LD) 15,168 28.24 Pat McDonald (Lab) 3,795 7.06 Kenneth
Wight (UKIP) 1,243 2.31 Tim Rait (BNP) 825 1.54 Peter Forbes (Green) 482 0.90
Peter Prior (F and R) 270 0.50 Maj. 16,769 31.22 C hold. Electorate 72,844.
Turnout 73.75% May 2005: C 25,434 (51.81%). LD 17,784 (36.23%). Lab 4,476
(9.12%). Others 704 (1.43%). UKIP 692 (1.41%). Turnout 70.33%. 384 MAIDSTONE &
THE WEALD Helen Grant (C) 23,491 48.01 Peter Carroll (LD) 17,602 35.98 Rav
Seeruthun (Lab) 4,769 9.75 Gareth Kendall (UKIP) 1,637 3.35 Stuart Jeffery
(Green) 655 1.34 Gary Butler (NF) 643 1.31 Heidi Simmonds (Ch P) 131 0.27 Maj.
5,889 12.04 C hold. Electorate 71,041. Turnout 68.87% May 2005: C 23,088
(51.79%). LD 10,166 (22.80%). Lab 9,983 (22.39%). UKIP 1,343 (3.01%). Turnout
65.13%. 385 MAKERFIELD Yvonne Fovargue (Lab) 20,700 47.29 Itrat Ali (C) 8,210
18.76 David Crowther (LD) 7,082 16.18 Bob Brierley (Ind) 3,424 7.82 Ken Haslam
(BNP) 3,229 7.38 John Mather (Ind) 1,126 2.57 Maj. 12,490 28.53 Lab hold.
Electorate 73,641. Turnout 59.44% May 2005: Lab 22,913 (62.06%). C 5,010
(13.57%). LD 4,215 (11.42%). Others 3,990 (10.81%). UKIP 790 (2.14%). Turnout
49.66%. 386 MALDON +John Whittingdale (C) 28,661 59.84 Elfreda Tealby-Watson
(LD) 9,254 19.32 Swatantra Nandanwar (Lab) 6,070 12.67 Jesse Pryke (UKIP) 2,446
5.11 Len Blaine (BNP) 1,464 3.06 Maj. 19,407 40.52 C hold. Electorate 68,861.
Turnout 69.55% May 2005: C 23,889 (56.31%). Lab 10,258 (24.18%). LD 6,360
(14.99%). UKIP 1,917 (4.52%). Turnout 62.86%. 387 MANCHESTER CENTRAL +Tony Lloyd
(Lab) 21,059 52.74 Marc Ramsbottom (LD) 10,620 26.60 Suhail Rahuja (C) 4,704
11.78 Tony Trebilcock (BNP) 1,636 4.10 Gayle O'Donovan (Green) 915 2.29 Nicola
Weatherill (UKIP) 607 1.52 Ron Sinclair (Soc Lab) 153 0.38 John Cartwright (Ind)
120 0.30 Jonty Leff (WRP) 59 0.15 Robert Skelton (SEP) 54 0.14 Maj. 10,439 26.15
Lab hold. Electorate 90,110. Turnout 44.31% May 2005: Lab 18,004 (59.35%). LD
6,368 (20.99%). C 3,168 (10.44%). Green 1,264 (4.17%). Others 986 (3.25%). UKIP
547 (1.80%). Turnout 41.77%. 388 MANCHESTER GORTON +Gerald Kaufman (Lab) 19,211
50.13 Qassim Afzal (LD) 12,508 32.64 Caroline Healy (C) 4,224 11.02 Justine Hall
(Green) 1,048 2.73 Karen Reissman (TUSC) 507 1.32 Mohammed Zulfikar (Respect)
337 0.88 Peter Harrison (Ch P) 254 0.66 Tim Dobson (Pirate) 236 0.62 Maj. 6,703
17.49

Lab hold. Electorate 75,933. Turnout 50.47% May 2005: Lab 17,224 (53.14%). LD
10,869 (33.53%). C 3,194 (9.85%). UKIP 785 (2.42%). Others 340 (1.05%). Turnout
45.74%. 389 MANCHESTER WITHINGTON +John Leech (LD) 20,110 44.66 Lucy Powell
(Lab) 18,216 40.45 Christopher Green (C) 5,005 11.11 Brian Candeland (Green) 798
1.77 Bob Gutfreund-Walmsley (UKIP) 698 1.55 Yasmin Zalzala (Ind) 147 0.33 Marcus
Farmer (Ind) 57 0.13 Maj. 1,894 4.21 LD hold. Electorate 74,371. Turnout 60.55%
May 2005: LD 16,195 (42.26%). Lab 15,664 (40.87%). C 3,972 (10.36%). Green 1,623
(4.23%). Others 442 (1.15%). UKIP 430 (1.12%). Turnout 55.36%. 390 MANSFIELD
+Joseph Meale (Lab) 18,753 38.75 Tracy Critchlow (C) 12,741 26.33 Michael Wyatt
(LD) 7,469 15.43 Andre Camilleri (Mansfield Ind) 4,339 8.97 David Hamilton (UKIP
) 2,985 6.17 Rachel Hill (BNP) 2,108 4.36 Maj. 6,012 12.42 Lab hold. Electorate
80,069. Turnout 60.44% May 2005: Lab 21,988 (50.11%). C 8,212 (18.71%). Others
7,525 (17.15%). LD 6,157 (14.03%). Turnout 56.96%. 391 MEON VALLEY George
Hollingbery (C) 28,818 56.24 Liz Leffman (LD) 16,693 32.58 Howard Linsley (Lab)
3,266 6.37 Steve Harris (UKIP) 1,490 2.91 Pat Harris (Eng Dem) 582 1.14 Sarah
Coats (APP) 255 0.50 Graeme Quar (Ind) 134 0.26 Maj. 12,125 23.66 C hold.
Electorate 70,488. Turnout 72.69% May 2005: C 22,228 (45.88%). LD 19,850
(40.98%). Lab 5,141 (10.61%). UKIP 1,225 (2.53%). Turnout 71.16%. 392 MERIDEN
+Caroline Spelman (C) 26,956 51.68 Ed Williams (Lab) 10,703 20.52 Simon Slater
(LD) 9,278 17.79 Frank O'Brien (BNP) 2,511 4.81 Barry Allcock (UKIP) 1,378 2.64
Elly Stanton (Green) 678 1.30 Nikki Sinclaire (RA) 658 1.26 Maj. 16,253 31.16 C
hold. Electorate 83,826. Turnout 62.23% May 2005: C 22,975 (47.63%). Lab 15,563
(32.27%). LD 8,075 (16.74%). UKIP 1,620 (3.36%). Turnout 60.13%. 393 MERTHYR
TYDFIL & RHYMNEY *Dai Havard (Lab) 14,007 43.67 Amy Kitcher (LD) 9,951 31.02
Maria Hill (C) 2,412 7.52 Clive Tovey (Ind) 1,845 5.75 Glyndwr Cennydd Jones
(PC) 1,621 5.05 Richard Barnes (BNP) 1,173 3.66 Adam Brown (UKIP) 872 2.72 Alan
Cowdell (Soc Lab) 195 0.61 Maj. 4,056 12.64 Lab hold. Swing 16.92 Lab to LD.
Electorate 54,715. Turnout 58.62% May 2005: Havard Lab 18,129 (60.48%). Rees LD
4,195 (13.99%). Turner PC 2,972 (9.91%). Berry C 2,680 (8.94%). Greer FWP 1,030
(3.44%). Parry UKIP 699 (2.33%). Marsden Soc Lab 271 (0.90%). Turnout 54.92%.
394 MIDDLESBROUGH +Sir Stuart Bell (Lab) 15,351 45.89 Chris Foote-Wood (LD)
6,662 19.91 John Walsh (C) 6,283 18.78 Joan McTigue (Ind) 1,969 5.89 Michael
Ferguson (BNP) 1,954 5.84 Robert Parker (UKIP) 1,236 3.69 Maj. 8,689 25.97 Lab
hold. Electorate 65,148. Turnout 51.35% May 2005: Lab 18,486 (57.59%). LD 6,010
(18.72%). C 5,283 (16.46%). Others 1,552 (4.84%). UKIP 768 (2.39%). Turnout
48.65%. 395 MIDDLESBROUGH SOUTH & CLEVELAND EAST Tom Blenkinsop (Lab) 18,138
39.25 Paul Bristow (C) 16,461 35.62 Nick Emmerson (LD) 7,340 15.88 Stuart
Lightwing (UKIP) 1,881 4.07 Shaun Gatley (BNP) 1,576 3.41 Mike Allen (Ind) 818
1.77 Maj. 1,677 3.63 Lab hold. Electorate 72,664. Turnout 63.60% May 2005: Lab
22,021 (50.35%). C 13,925 (31.84%). LD 6,034 (13.80%). Others 1,099 (2.51%).
UKIP 658 (1.50%). Turnout 60.87%. 396 MIDLOTHIAN *David Hamilton (Lab) 18,449
47.01 Colin Beattie (SNP) 8,100 20.64 Ross Laird (LD) 6,711 17.10 James
Callander (C) 4,661 11.88 Ian Baxter (Green) 595 1.52 Gordon Norrie (UKIP) 364
0.93 George McCleery (Ind) 196 0.50 Willie Duncan (TUSC) 166 0.42 Maj. 10,349
26.37 Lab hold. Swing 1.07 Lab to SNP. Electorate 61,387. Turnout 63.93% May
2005: Hamilton Lab 17,153 (45.49%). Mackintosh LD 9,888 (26.23%). Beattie SNP
6,400 (16.97%). McGill C 3,537 (9.38%). Gilfillan SSP 726 (1.93%). Turnout
62.17%. 397 MILTON KEYNES NORTH +Mark Lancaster (C) 23,419 43.46 Andrew Pakes
(Lab) 14,458 26.83 Jill Hope (LD) 11,894 22.07 Michael Phillips (UKIP) 1,772
3.29 Richard Hamilton (BNP) 1,154 2.14 Alan Francis (Green) 733 1.36 John Lennon
(CPA) 206 0.38 Matt Bananamatt Fensome (Loony) 157 0.29 Anant Vyas (Ind) 95 0.18
Maj. 8,961 16.63 C gain from Lab. Electorate 85,841. Turnout 62.78% May 2005:
Lab 18,767 (37.89%). C 17,919 (36.18%). LD 10,215 (20.62%). UKIP 1,400 (2.83%).
Green 1,090 (2.20%). Others 142 (0.29%). Turnout 63.38%. 398 MILTON KEYNES SOUTH
Iain Stewart (C) 23,034 41.63 *Phyllis Starkey (Lab) 17,833 32.23 Peter Jones
(LD) 9,787 17.69 Philip Pinto (UKIP) 2,074 3.75 Matthew Tait (BNP) 1,502 2.71
Katrina Deacon (Green) 774 1.40 Suzanne Nti (CPA) 245 0.44 Jonathan Worth (NFP)
84 0.15 Maj. 5,201 9.40 C gain from Lab. Electorate 90,487. Turnout 61.15% May
2005: Lab 20,104 (40.80%). C 18,607 (37.76%). LD 7,483 (15.18%). UKIP 1,750
(3.55%). Green 1,336 (2.71%). Turnout 61.47%. 399 MITCHAM & MORDEN +Siobhain
McDonagh (Lab) 24,722 56.45 Melanie Hampton (C) 11,056 25.24 Diana Coman (LD)
5,202 11.88 Tony Martin (BNP) 1,386 3.16 Andrew Mills (UKIP) 857 1.96 Smarajit
Roy (Green) 381 0.87 Rathy Alagaratnam (Ind) 155 0.35 Ernest Redgrave (Ind) 38
0.09 Maj. 13,666 31.20 Lab hold. Electorate 65,939. Turnout 66.42% May 2005: Lab
22,526 (56.72%). C 9,787 (24.64%). LD 5,543 (13.96%). Green 1,388 (3.49%).
Others 472 (1.19%). Turnout 60.78%. 400 MOLE VALLEY *Sir Paul Beresford (C)
31,263 57.55 Alice Humphreys (LD) 15,610 28.73 James Dove (Lab) 3,804 7.00 Leigh
Jones (UKIP) 2,752 5.07 Rob Sedgwick (Green) 895 1.65 Maj. 15,653 28.81 C hold.
Swing 2.27 LD to C. Electorate 72,612. Turnout 74.81% May 2005: Beresford C
27,060 (54.76%). Butt LD 15,063 (30.48%). Bi Lab 5,310 (10.75%). Payne UKIP
1,475 (2.98%). Meekins Veritas 507 (1.03%). Turnout 72.48%. 401 MONMOUTH *David
Davies (C) 22,466 48.29 Hamish Sandison (Lab) 12,041 25.88 Martin Blakebrough
(LD) 9,026 19.40 Jonathan Clark (PC) 1,273 2.74 Derek Rowe (UKIP) 1,126 2.42
Steve Millson (Green) 587 1.26 Maj. 10,425 22.41 C hold. Swing 6.25 Lab to C.
Electorate 62,768. Turnout 74.11% May 2005: Davies C 21,396 (46.87%). Edwards
Lab 16,869 (36.95%). Hobson LD 5,852 (12.82%). Clark PC 993 (2.18%). Bufton UKIP
543 (1.19%). Turnout 72.36%. 402 MONTGOMERYSHIRE Glyn Davies (C) 13,976 41.33
+Lembit Opik (LD) 12,792 37.83 Heledd Fychan (PC) 2,802 8.29 Nick Colbourne
(Lab) 2,407 7.12 David Rowlands (UKIP) 1,128 3.34 Milton Ellis (NF) 384 1.14
Bruce Lawson (Ind) 324 0.96 Maj. 1,184 3.50 C gain from LD. Electorate 48,730.
Turnout 69.39% May 2005: LD 15,548 (50.29%). C 8,500 (27.50%). Lab 3,794
(12.27%). PC 2,156 (6.97%). UKIP 916 (2.96%). Turnout 66.26%. 403 MORAY *Angus
Robertson (SNP) 16,273 39.69 Douglas Ross (C) 10,683 26.05 Kieron Green (Lab)
7,007 17.09 James Paterson (LD) 5,956 14.53 Donald Gatt (UKIP) 1,085 2.65 Maj.
5,590 13.63 SNP hold. Swing 0.50 SNP to C. Electorate 65,925. Turnout 62.20% May
2005: Robertson SNP 14,196 (36.59%). Halcro- Johnston C 8,520 (21.96%). Hutchens
Lab 7,919 (20.41%). Gorn LD 7,460 (19.23%). Anderson SSP 698 (1.80%). Turnout
58.37%. 404 MORECAMBE & LUNESDALE David Morris (C) 18,035 41.35 +Geraldine Smith
(Lab) 17,169 39.36 Leslie Jones (LD) 5,971 13.69 Mark Knight (UKIP) 1,843 4.23
Chris Coates (Green) 598 1.37 Maj. 866 1.99 C gain from Lab. Electorate 69,965.
Turnout 62.34% May 2005: Lab 20,266 (49.06%). C 15,417 (37.32%). LD 5,627
(13.62%). Turnout 61.55%. 405 MORLEY & OUTWOOD +Ed Balls (Lab Co-op) 18,365
37.59 Antony Calvert (C) 17,264 35.34 James Monaghan (LD) 8,186 16.76 Chris
Beverley (BNP) 3,535 7.24 David Daniel (UKIP) 1,506 3.08 Maj. 1,101 2.25 Lab
Co-op hold. Electorate 74,200. Turnout 65.84% May 2005: Lab 19,024 (45.96%). C
10,355 (25.02%). Others 7,851 (18.97%). LD 4,159 (10.05%). Turnout 58.47%. 406
MOTHERWELL & WISHAW *Frank Roy (Lab) 23,910 61.11 Marion Fellows (SNP) 7,104
18.16 Stuart Douglas (LD) 3,840 9.82 Patsy Gilroy (C) 3,660 9.36 Ray Gunnion
(TUSC) 609 1.56 Maj. 16,806 42.96 Lab hold. Swing 0.97 SNP to Lab. Electorate
66,918. Turnout 58.46% May 2005: Roy Lab 21,327 (57.47%). MacQuarrie SNP 6,105
(16.45%). Snowden LD 4,464 (12.03%). Finnie C 3,440 (9.27%). MacEwan SSP 1,019
(2.75%). Carter Free Scot 384 (1.03%). Thompson OCV 370 (1.00%). Turnout 55.40%.
407 NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR *Angus MacNeil (SNP) 6,723 45.68 Donald John MacSween
(Lab) 4,838 32.87 Murdo Murray (Ind) 1,412 9.59 Jean Davis (LD) 1,097 7.45
Sheena Norquay (C) 647 4.40 Maj. 1,885 12.81 SNP hold. Swing 1.20 Lab to SNP.
Electorate 22,266. Turnout 66.10% May 2005: MacNeil SNP 6,213 (44.90%).
MacDonald Lab 4,772 (34.49%). Davis LD 1,096 (7.92%). Hargreaves OCV 1,048
(7.57%). Maciver C 610 (4.41%). Telfer SSP 97 (0.70%). Turnout 64.13%. 408 NEATH
*Peter Hain (Lab) 17,172 46.26 Alun Llewelyn (PC) 7,397 19.93 Frank Little (LD)
5,535 14.91 Emmeline Owens (C) 4,847 13.06 Michael Green (BNP) 1,342 3.62 James
Bevan (UKIP) 829 2.23 Maj. 9,775 26.33 Lab hold. Electorate 57,186. Turnout
64.91% May 2005: Lab 18,835 (52.59%). PC 6,125 (17.10%). LD 5,112 (14.27%). C
4,136 (11.55%). Others 951 (2.66%). Green 658 (1.84%). Turnout 62.53%. 409 NEW
FOREST EAST +Julian Lewis (C) 26,443 52.85 Terry Scriven (LD) 15,136 30.25 Peter
Sopowski (Lab) 4,915 9.82 Peter Day (UKIP) 2,518 5.03 Beverley Golden (Green)
1,024 2.05 Maj. 11,307 22.60 C hold. Electorate 72,858. Turnout 68.68% May 2005:
C 23,333 (49.41%). LD 15,680 (33.20%). Lab 5,787 (12.25%). UKIP 2,422 (5.13%).
Turnout 66.05%. 410 NEW FOREST WEST +Desmond Swayne (C) 27,980 58.82 Mike
Plummer (LD) 11,084 23.30 Janice Hurne (Lab) 4,666 9.81 Martin Lyon (UKIP) 2,783
5.85 Janet Richards (Green) 1,059 2.23 Maj. 16,896 35.52 C hold. Electorate
68,332. Turnout 69.62% May 2005: C 24,646 (55.91%). LD 8,463 (19.20%). Lab 7,295
(16.55%). UKIP 1,839 (4.17%). Green 1,837 (4.17%). Turnout 66.08%. 411 NEWARK
+Patrick Mercer (C) 27,590 53.86 Dr Ian Campbell (Lab) 11,438 22.33 Pauline
Jenkins (LD) 10,246 20.00 Tom Irvine (UKIP) 1,954 3.81 Maj. 16,152 31.53 C hold.
Electorate 71,785. Turnout 71.36% May 2005: C 22,950 (50.50%). Lab 12,873
(28.33%). LD 8,354 (18.38%). UKIP 1,267 (2.79%). Turnout 63.33%. 412 NEWBURY
+Richard Benyon (C) 33,057 56.42 David Rendel (LD) 20,809 35.52 Hannah Cooper
(Lab) 2,505 4.28 David Black (UKIP) 1,475 2.52 Adrian Hollister (Green) 490 0.84
Brian Burgess (Ind) 158 0.27 David Yates (AD) 95 0.16 Maj. 12,248 20.90 C hold.
Electorate 83,411. Turnout 70.24% May 2005: C 26,343 (49.00%). LD 22,891
(42.58%). Lab 3,191 (5.94%). UKIP 844 (1.57%). Others 495 (0.92%). Turnout
72.62%. 413 NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME *Paul Farrelly (Lab) 16,393 37.95 Robert
Jenrick (C) 14,841 34.36 Nigel Jones (LD) 8,466 19.60 David Nixon (UKIP) 3,491
8.08 Maj. 1,552 3.59 Lab hold. Swing 8.39 Lab to C. Electorate 69,433. Turnout
62.21% May 2005: Farrelly Lab 18,053 (45.37%). Lefroy C 9,945 (24.99%). Johnson
LD 7,528 (18.92%). Nixon UKIP 1,436 (3.61%). Dawson BNP 1,390 (3.49%). Dobson
Green 918 (2.31%). Harvey-Lover Veritas 518 (1.30%). Turnout 58.16%.

414 NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE

CENTRAL

Chi Onwurah (Lab) 15,694 45.95

Gareth Kane (LD) 8,228 24.09

Nick Holder (C) 6,611 19.35

Ken Booth (BNP) 2,302 6.74

Martin Davies (UKIP) 754 2.21

John Pearson (Green) 568 1.66

Maj. 7,466 21.86

Lab hold. Electorate 60,507. Turnout 56.45%

May 2005: Lab 16,466 (50.58%). LD 8,957 (27.51%). C 5,400 (16.59%). Green 1,254
(3.85%). Others 477 (1.47%). Turnout 56.51%.

415 NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE

EAST +Nicholas Brown (Lab) 17,043 45.04

Wendy Taylor (LD) 12,590 33.27

Dominic Llewellyn (C) 6,068 16.04

Alan Spence (BNP) 1,342 3.55

Andrew Gray (Green) 620 1.64

Martin Levy (Comm) 177 0.47

Maj. 4,453 11.77

Lab hold. Electorate 64,487. Turnout 58.68%

May 2005: Lab 17,588 (52.79%). LD 10,601 (31.82%).

C 4,344 (13.04%). Others 787 (2.36%). Turnout 55.30%. 416 NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE
NORTH Catherine McKinnell (Lab) 17,950 40.85 Ronald Beadle (LD) 14,536 33.08
Stephen Parkinson (C) 7,966 18.13 Terry Gibson (BNP) 1,890 4.30 Ian Proud (UKIP)
1,285 2.92 Anna Heyman (Green) 319 0.73 Maj. 3,414 7.77 Lab hold. Electorate
67,110. Turnout 65.48% May 2005: Lab 20,361 (49.85%). LD 13,483 (33.01%). C
6,004 (14.70%). Others 997 (2.44%). Turnout 61.64%. 417 NEWPORT EAST *Jessica
Morden (Lab) 12,744 36.99 Ed Townsend (LD) 11,094 32.21 Dawn Parry (C) 7,918
22.99 Keith Jones (BNP) 1,168 3.39 Fiona Cross (PC) 724 2.10 David Rowlands (
UKIP) 677 1.97 Liz Screen (Soc Lab) 123 0.36 Maj. 1,650 4.79 Lab hold. Swing
8.35 Lab to LD. Electorate 54,437. Turnout 63.28% May 2005: Morden Lab 14,389
(45.21%). Townsend LD 7,551 (23.73%). Collings C 7,459 (23.44%). Asghar PC 1,221
(3.84%). Thomas UKIP 945 (2.97%). Screen Soc Lab 260 (0.82%). Turnout 57.91%.
418 NEWPORT WEST *Paul Flynn (Lab) 16,389 41.26 Matthew Williams (C) 12,845
32.34 Veronica German (LD) 6,587 16.58 Timothy Windsor (BNP) 1,183 2.98 Hugh
Moelwyn Hughes (UKIP) 1,144 2.88 Jeff Rees (PC) 1,122 2.82 Pippa Bartolotti
(Green) 450 1.13 Maj. 3,544 8.92 Lab hold. Swing 3.18 Lab to C. Electorate
62,111. Turnout 63.95% May 2005: Flynn Lab 16,021 (44.84%). Morgan C 10,563
(29.56%). Flanagan LD 6,398 (17.91%). Salkeld PC 1,278 (3.58%). Moelwyn Hughes
UKIP 848 (2.37%). Varley Green 540 (1.51%). Arjomand Ind 84 (0.24%). Turnout
59.27%. 420 NEWTON ABBOT Anne-Marie Morris (C) 20,774 43.03 +Richard
Younger-Ross (LD) 20,251 41.94 Patrick Canavan (Lab) 3,387 7.01 Jackie Hooper (
UKIP) 3,088 6.40 Corinne Lindsey (Green) 701 1.45 Keith Sharp (Ind) 82 0.17 Maj.
523 1.08 C gain from LD. Electorate 69,343. Turnout 69.63% May 2005: LD 20,967
(45.57%). C 16,137 (35.07%). Lab 5,233 (11.37%). UKIP 2,990 (6.50%). Others 685
(1.49%). Turnout 68.92%. 421 NORFOLK MID George Freeman (C) 25,123 49.49 David
Newman (LD) 11,267 22.19 Elizabeth Hughes (Lab) 8,857 17.45 Toby Coke (UKIP)
2,800 5.52 Tim Birt (Green) 1,457 2.87 Christine Kelly (BNP) 1,261 2.48 Maj.
13,856 27.29 C hold. Electorate 74,260. Turnout 68.36% May 2005: C 22,265
(46.54%). Lab 14,472 (30.25%). LD 9,186 (19.20%). UKIP 1,914 (4.00%). Turnout
65.56%. 422 NORFOLK NORTH +Norman Lamb (LD) 27,554 55.48 Trevor Ivory (C) 15,928
32.07 Phil Harris (Lab) 2,896 5.83 Michael Baker (UKIP) 2,680 5.40 Andrew
Boswell (Green) 508 1.02 Simon Mann (Ind) 95 0.19 Maj. 11,626 23.41 LD hold.
Electorate 67,841. Turnout 73.20% May 2005: LD 26,410 (53.23%). C 17,835
(35.95%). Lab 4,439 (8.95%). UKIP 817 (1.65%). Others 116 (0.23%). Turnout
72.73%. 423 NORFOLK NORTH WEST +Henry Bellingham (C) 25,916 54.22 William
Summers (LD) 11,106 23.23 Manish Sood (Lab) 6,353 13.29 John Gray (UKIP) 1,841
3.85 David Fleming (BNP) 1,839 3.85 Michael de Whalley (Green) 745 1.56 Maj.
14,810 30.98 C hold. Electorate 73,207. Turnout 65.29% May 2005: C 22,920
(49.94%). Lab 14,503 (31.60%). LD 6,780 (14.77%). UKIP 1,694 (3.69%). Turnout
61.61%. 424 NORFOLK SOUTH +Richard Bacon (C) 27,133 49.34 Jacky Howe (LD) 16,193
29.45 Mick Castle (Lab) 7,252 13.19 Evan Heasley (UKIP) 2,329 4.24 Helen
Mitchell (BNP) 1,086 1.97 Jo Willcott (Green) 1,000 1.82 Maj. 10,940 19.89 C
hold. Electorate 76,165. Turnout 72.20% May 2005: C 22,172 (44.18%). LD 15,453
(30.79%). Lab 11,153 (22.22%). UKIP 1,407 (2.80%). Turnout 69.07%. 425 NORFOLK
SOUTH WEST Elizabeth Truss (C) 23,753 48.33 Stephen Gordon (LD) 10,613 21.59
Peter Smith (Lab) 9,119 18.55 Kay Hipsey (UKIP) 3,061 6.23 Dennis Pearce (BNP)
1,774 3.61 Lori Allen (Green) 830 1.69 Maj. 13,140 26.73 C hold. Electorate
74,298. Turnout 66.15% May 2005: C 20,435 (44.97%). Lab 13,618 (29.97%). LD
8,719 (19.19%). UKIP 2,166 (4.77%). Others 506 (1.11%). Turnout 62.05%. 426
NORMANTON, PONTEFRACT & CASTLEFORD +Yvette Cooper (Lab) 22,293 48.21 Nick
Pickles (C) 11,314 24.47 Chris Rush (LD) 7,585 16.40 Graham Thewlis-Hardy (BNP)
3,864 8.36 Gareth Allen (Ind) 1,183 2.56 Maj. 10,979 23.74 Lab hold. Electorate
82,239. Turnout 56.23% May 2005: Lab 27,630 (65.34%). C 7,022 (16.61%). LD 4,704
(11.12%). Others 2,931 (6.93%). Turnout 53.32%. 427 NORTHAMPTON NORTH Michael
Ellis (C) 13,735 34.11 +Sally Keeble (Lab) 11,799 29.30 Andrew Simpson (LD)
11,250 27.94 Ray Beasley (BNP) 1,316 3.27 Jim Macarthur (UKIP) 1,238 3.07 Tony
Lochmuller (Green) 443 1.10 Eamonn Fitzpatrick (Ind) 334 0.83 Timothy Webb (Ch
P) 98 0.24 Malcolm Mildren (Ind) 58 0.14 Maj. 1,936 4.81 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 64,230. Turnout 62.70% May 2005: Lab 14,352 (38.67%). C 11,012
(29.67%). LD 10,000 (26.94%). UKIP 921 (2.48%). Others 831 (2.24%). Turnout
57.20%. 428 NORTHAMPTON SOUTH +Brian Binley (C) 15,917 40.84 Clyde Loakes (Lab)
9,913 25.43 Paul Varnsverry (LD) 7,579 19.44 Tony Clarke (Ind) 2,242 5.75 Derek
Clark (UKIP) 1,897 4.87 Kevin Sills (Eng Dem) 618 1.59 Julie Hawkins (Green) 363
0.93 Dave Green (NSPS) 325 0.83 Kevin Willsher (Ind) 65 0.17 Liam Costello (SMA)
59 0.15 Maj. 6,004 15.40 C gain from Lab. Electorate 66,923. Turnout 58.24% May
2005: Lab 15,906 (41.57%). C 14,461 (37.79%). LD 5,199 (13.59%). Others 1,905
(4.98%). UKIP 791 (2.07%). Turnout 58.86%. 429 NORTHAMPTONSHIRE SOUTH Andrea
Leadsom (C) 33,081 55.24 Scott Collins (LD) 12,603 21.04 Matthew May (Lab)
10,380 17.33 Barry Mahoney (UKIP) 2,406 4.02 Tony Tappy (Eng Dem) 735 1.23
Marcus Rock (Green) 685 1.14 Maj. 20,478 34.19 C hold. Electorate 82,032.
Turnout 73.01% May 2005: C 25,628 (51.57%). Lab 14,272 (28.72%). LD 8,516
(17.14%). UKIP 1,277 (2.57%). Turnout 67.59%. 430 NORWICH NORTH +Chloe Smith (C)
17,280 40.59 John Cook (Lab) 13,379 31.43 John Stephen (LD) 7,783 18.28 Glenn
Tingle (UKIP) 1,878 4.41 Jessica Goldfinch (Green) 1,245 2.92 Thomas Richardson
(BNP) 747 1.75 Bill Holden (Ind) 143 0.34 Andrew Holland (Ch P) 118 0.28 Maj.
3,901 9.16 C gain from Lab. Electorate 65,258. Turnout 65.24% May 2005: Lab
19,212 (47.11%). C 12,443 (30.51%). LD 6,551 (16.06%). Green 1,321 (3.24%). UKIP
949 (2.33%). Others 308 (0.76%). Turnout 61.88%. 431 NORWICH SOUTH Simon Wright
(LD) 13,960 29.36 +Charles Clarke (Lab) 13,650 28.71 Antony Little (C) 10,902
22.93 Adrian Ramsay (Green) 7,095 14.92 Steve Emmens (UKIP) 1,145 2.41 Leonard
Heather (BNP) 697 1.47 Gabriel Polley (WRP) 102 0.21 Maj. 310 0.65 LD gain from
Lab. Electorate 73,649. Turnout 64.56% May 2005: Lab 15,275 (37.40%). LD 12,252
(30.00%). C 8,917 (21.83%). Green 3,032 (7.42%). Others 770 (1.89%). UKIP 596
(1.46%). Turnout 59.00%. 432 NOTTINGHAM EAST Christopher Leslie (Lab Co-op)
15,022 45.37 Sam Boote (LD) 8,053 24.32 Ewan Lamont (C) 7,846 23.70 Pat Wolfe (
UKIP) 1,138 3.44 Benjamin Hoare (Green) 928 2.80 Parvaiz Sardar (Ch P) 125 0.38
Maj. 6,969 21.05 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 58,707. Turnout 56.40% May 2005: Lab
13,651 (46.69%). C 6,568 (22.46%). LD 6,389 (21.85%). Green 1,517 (5.19%). UKIP
742 (2.54%). Others 373 (1.28%). Turnout 48.92%. 433 NOTTINGHAM NORTH +Graham
Allen (Lab) 16,646 48.55 Martin Curtis (C) 8,508 24.82 Tim Ball (LD) 5,849 17.06
Bob Brindley (BNP) 1,944 5.67 Irenea Marriott (UKIP) 1,338 3.90 Maj. 8,138 23.74
Lab hold. Electorate 63,240. Turnout 54.21% May 2005: Lab 18,545 (59.14%). C
5,675 (18.10%). LD 5,452 (17.39%). UKIP 1,684 (5.37%). Turnout 48.46%. 434
NOTTINGHAM SOUTH Lilian Greenwood (Lab) 15,209 37.29 Rowena Holland (C) 13,437
32.94 Tony Sutton (LD) 9,406 23.06 Tony Woodward (BNP) 1,140 2.79 Ken Browne (
UKIP) 967 2.37 Matthew Butcher (Green) 630 1.54 Maj. 1,772 4.34 Lab hold.
Electorate 67,441. Turnout 60.48% May 2005: Lab 15,939 (45.91%). C 9,274
(26.71%). LD 8,158 (23.50%). UKIP 1,347 (3.88%). Turnout 51.42%. 435 NUNEATON
Marcus Jones (C) 18,536 41.52 Jayne Innes (Lab) 16,467 36.88 Christina Jebb (LD)
6,846 15.33 Martyn Findley (BNP) 2,797 6.26 Maj. 2,069 4.63 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 67,837. Turnout 65.81% May 2005: Lab 18,652 (46.64%). C 14,758
(36.90%). LD 5,008 (12.52%). UKIP 1,574 (3.94%). Turnout 58.92%. 436 OCHIL &
PERTHSHIRE SOUTH *Gordon Banks (Lab) 19,131 37.91 Annabelle Ewing (SNP) 13,944
27.63 Gerald Michaluk (C) 10,342 20.49 Graeme Littlejohn (LD) 5,754 11.40 David
Bushby (UKIP) 689 1.37 Hilary Charles (Green) 609 1.21 Maj. 5,187 10.28 Lab
hold. Swing 4.40 SNP to Lab. Electorate 75,115. Turnout 67.19% May 2005: Banks
Lab 14,645 (31.36%). Ewing SNP 13,957 (29.89%). Smith C 10,021 (21.46%).
Whittingham LD 6,218 (13.32%). Baxter Green 978 (2.09%). Campbell SSP 420
(0.90%). Bushby UKIP 275 (0.59%). Kelly Free Scot 183 (0.39%). Turnout 66.02%.
437 OGMORE +Huw Irranca-Davies (Lab) 18,644 53.81 Emma Moore (C) 5,398 15.58
Jackie Radford (LD) 5,260 15.18 Danny Clark (PC) 3,326 9.60 Kay Thomas (BNP)
1,242 3.58 Carolyn Passey (UKIP) 780 2.25 Maj. 13,246 38.23 Lab hold. Electorate
55,527. Turnout 62.40% May 2005: Lab 19,542 (60.96%). LD 4,703 (14.67%). C 4,540
(14.16%). PC 3,274 (10.21%). Turnout 59.54%. 438 OLD BEXLEY & SIDCUP +James
Brokenshire (C) 24,625 54.13 Rick Everitt (Lab) 8,768 19.27 Duncan Borrowman
(LD) 6,996 15.38 John Brooks (BNP) 2,132 4.69 David Coburn (UKIP) 1,532 3.37
Elaine Cheeseman (Eng Dem) 520 1.14 John Hemming-Clark (Save QM) 393 0.86
Jonathan Rooks (Green) 371 0.82 Napoleon Dynamite (Loony) 155 0.34 Maj. 15,857
34.86 C hold. Electorate 65,665. Turnout 69.28% May 2005: C 21,151 (50.00%). Lab
11,842 (27.99%). LD 5,862 (13.86%). UKIP 1,920 (4.54%). Others 1,531 (3.62%).
Turnout 65.21%. 439 OLDHAM EAST & SADDLEWORTH +Phil Woolas (Lab) 14,186 31.86
Elwyn Watkins (LD) 14,083 31.63 Kashif Ali (C) 11,773 26.44 Alwyn Stott (BNP)
2,546 5.72 David Bentley (UKIP) 1,720 3.86 Gulzar Nazir (Ch P) 212 0.48 Maj. 103
0.23 Lab hold. Electorate 72,765. Turnout 61.18% May 2005: Lab 17,381 (42.53%).
LD 13,136 (32.15%). C 7,256 (17.76%). Others 2,247 (5.50%). UKIP 843 (2.06%).
Turnout 56.76%. 440 OLDHAM WEST & ROYTON +Michael Meacher (Lab) 19,503 45.45
Kamran Ghafoor (C) 10,151 23.66 Mark Alcock (LD) 8,193 19.09 David Joines (BNP)
3,049 7.11 Helen Roberts (UKIP) 1,387 3.23 Shahid Miah (Respect) 627 1.46 Maj.
9,352 21.79 Lab hold. Electorate 72,651. Turnout 59.06% May 2005: Lab 18,637
(48.37%). LD 8,183 (21.24%). C 8,127 (21.09%). Others 2,606 (6.76%). UKIP 981
(2.55%). Turnout 54.01%. 441 ORKNEY & SHETLAND Alistair Carmichael (LD) 11,989
61.97 Mark Cooper (Lab) 2,061 10.65 John Mowat (SNP) 2,042 10.56 Frank Nairn (C)
2,032 10.50 Robert Smith (UKIP) 1,222 6.32 Maj. 9,928 51.32 LD hold. Swing 6.98
Lab to LD. Electorate 33,085. Turnout 58.47% May 2005: Carmichael LD 9,138
(51.50%). Meade Lab 2,511 (14.15%). Nairn C 2,357 (13.28%). Mowat SNP 1,833
(10.33%). Aberdein SSP 992 (5.59%). Dyble UKIP 424 (2.39%). Cruickshank LCA 311
(1.75%). Nugent Free Scot 176 (0.99%). Turnout 53.69%. 442 ORPINGTON Joseph
Johnson (C) 29,200 59.70 David McBride (LD) 12,000 24.53 Stephen Morgan (Lab)
4,400 9.00 Mick Greenhough (UKIP) 1,360 2.78 Tess Culnane (BNP) 1,241 2.54
Tamara Galloway (Green) 511 1.04 Chriss Snape (Eng Dem) 199 0.41 Maj. 17,200
35.17 C hold. Electorate 67,732. Turnout 72.21% May 2005: C 24,800 (51.24%). LD
19,579 (40.45%). Lab 2,893 (5.98%). UKIP 1,131 (2.34%). Turnout 72.41%. 443
OXFORD EAST +Andrew Smith (Lab) 21,938 42.47 Steve Goddard (LD) 17,357 33.60
Edward Argar (C) 9,727 18.83 Sushila Dhall (Green) 1,238 2.40 Julia Gasper (UKIP
) 1,202 2.33 David O'Sullivan (SEP) 116 0.22 Roger Crawford (Parenting) 73 0.14
Maj. 4,581 8.87 Lab hold. Electorate 81,886. Turnout 63.08% May 2005: Lab 16,294
(35.92%). LD 15,962 (35.19%). C 7,863 (17.34%). Others 2,423 (5.34%). Green
2,029 (4.47%). UKIP 786 (1.73%). Turnout 57.50%. 444 OXFORD WEST & ABINGDON
Nicola Blackwood (C) 23,906 42.33 +Evan Harris (LD) 23,730 42.01 Richard Stevens
(Lab) 5,999 10.62 Paul Williams (UKIP) 1,518 2.69 Chris Goodall (Green) 1,184
2.10 Keith Mann (APP) 143 0.25 Maj. 176 0.31 C gain from LD. Electorate 86,458.
Turnout 65.33% May 2005: LD 23,418 (46.13%). C 16,602 (32.70%). Lab 8,056
(15.87%). Green 1,929 (3.80%). UKIP 763 (1.50%). Turnout 67.05%. 445 PAISLEY &
RENFREWSHIRE NORTH *Jim Sheridan (Lab) 23,613 54.03 Mags MacLaren (SNP) 8,333
19.07 Alistair Campbell (C) 6,381 14.60 Ruaraidh Dobson (LD) 4,597 10.52 Gary
Pearson (Ind) 550 1.26 Chris Rollo (SSP) 233 0.53 Maj. 15,280 34.96 Lab hold.
Swing 4.03 SNP to Lab. Electorate 63,704. Turnout 68.61% May 2005: Sheridan Lab
18,697 (45.73%). Wilson SNP 7,696 (18.82%). Hutton LD 7,464 (18.26%). Lardner C
5,566 (13.61%). McGregor SSP 646 (1.58%). McGavigan Soc Lab 444 (1.09%). Pearson
UKIP 372 (0.91%). Turnout 64.82%. 446 PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE SOUTH *Douglas
Alexander (Lab) 23,842 59.61 Andy Doig (SNP) 7,228 18.07 Gordon McCaskill (C)
3,979 9.95 Ashay Ghai (LD) 3,812 9.53 Paul Mack (Ind) 513 1.28 Jimmy Kerr (SSP)
375 0.94 William Hendry (Ind) 249 0.62 Maj. 16,614 41.54 Lab hold. Swing 3.27
SNP to Lab. Electorate 61,197. Turnout 65.36% May 2005: Alexander Lab 19,904
(52.57%). McCartin LD 6,672 (17.62%). Doig SNP 6,653 (17.57%). Begg C 3,188
(8.42%). Hogg SSP 789 (2.08%). Matthew Paisley 381 (1.01%). Rodgers Ind 166
(0.44%). Broadbent Soc Lab 107 (0.28%). Turnout 62.91%. 447 PENDLE Andrew
Stephenson (C) 17,512 38.88 *Gordon Prentice (Lab) 13,927 30.92 Afzal Anwar (LD)
9,095 20.19 James Jackman (BNP) 2,894 6.42 Graham Cannon (UKIP) 1,476 3.28
Richard Masih (Ch P) 141 0.31 Maj. 3,585 7.96 C gain from Lab. Swing 6.63 Lab to
C. Electorate 66,417. Turnout 67.82% May 2005: Prentice Lab 15,250 (37.08%).
Ellison C 13,070 (31.78%). Anwar LD 9,528 (23.16%). Boocock BNP 2,547 (6.19%).
Cannon UKIP 737 (1.79%). Turnout 63.36%. 448 PENISTONE & STOCKSBRIDGE +Angela
Smith (Lab) 17,565 37.76 Spencer Pitfield (C) 14,516 31.21 Ian Cuthbertson (LD)
9,800 21.07 Paul James (BNP) 2,207 4.74 Grant French (UKIP) 1,936 4.16 Paul
McEnhill (Eng Dem) 492 1.06 Maj. 3,049 6.55 Lab hold. Electorate 68,501. Turnout
67.91% May 2005: Lab 19,047 (45.16%). LD 10,430 (24.73%). C 9,996 (23.70%).
Others 2,010 (4.77%). UKIP 696 (1.65%). Turnout 62.06%. 449 PENRITH & THE BORDER
Rory Stewart (C) 24,071 53.39 Peter Thornton (LD) 12,830 28.46 Barbara Cannon
(Lab) 5,834 12.94 John Stanyer (UKIP) 1,259 2.79 Chris Davidson (BNP) 1,093 2.42
Maj. 11,241 24.93 C hold. Electorate 64,548. Turnout 69.85% May 2005: C 21,689
(51.39%). LD 10,894 (25.81%). Lab 8,042 (19.05%). UKIP 1,032 (2.45%). Others 549
(1.30%). Turnout 66.70%. 450 PERTH & PERTHSHIRE NORTH *Pete Wishart (SNP) 19,118
39.61 Peter Lyburn (C) 14,739 30.54 Jamie Glackin (Lab) 7,923 16.41 Peter
Barrett (LD) 5,954 12.34 Douglas Taylor (Trust) 534 1.11 Maj. 4,379 9.07 SNP
hold. Swing 2.88 C to SNP. Electorate 72,141. Turnout 66.91% May 2005: Wishart
SNP 15,469 (33.68%). Taylor C 13,948 (30.37%). Maughan Lab 8,601 (18.73%).
Campbell LD 7,403 (16.12%). Stott SSP 509 (1.11%). Turnout 64.79%. 451
PETERBOROUGH +Stewart Jackson (C) 18,133 40.36 Ed Murphy (Lab) 13,272 29.54 Nick
Sandford (LD) 8,816 19.62 Frances Fox (UKIP) 3,007 6.69 Rob King (Eng Dem) 770
1.71 Fiona Radic (Green) 523 1.16 John Swallow (Ind) 406 0.90 Maj. 4,861 10.82 C
hold. Electorate 70,316. Turnout 63.89% May 2005: C 19,414 (43.29%). Lab 15,409
(34.36%). LD 7,487 (16.70%). UKIP 1,436 (3.20%). Others 1,098 (2.45%). Turnout
59.05%. 452 PLYMOUTH MOOR VIEW +Alison Seabeck (Lab) 15,433 37.16 Matthew Groves
(C) 13,845 33.34 Stuart Bonar (LD) 7,016 16.90 Bill Wakeham (UKIP) 3,188 7.68
Roy Cook (BNP) 1,438 3.46 Wendy Miller (Green) 398 0.96 David Marchesi (Soc Lab)
208 0.50 Maj. 1,588 3.82 Lab hold. Electorate 67,261. Turnout 61.74% May 2005:
Lab 17,739 (44.39%). C 9,999 (25.02%). LD 7,583 (18.98%). UKIP 3,071 (7.69%).
Others 1,568 (3.92%). Turnout 58.27%. 453 PLYMOUTH SUTTON & DEVONPORT Oliver
Colville (C) 15,050 34.29 +Linda Gilroy (Lab Co-op) 13,901 31.67 Judy Evans (LD)
10,829 24.67 Andrew Leigh (UKIP) 2,854 6.50 Tony Brown (Green) 904 2.06 Brian
Gerrish (Ind) 233 0.53 Robert Hawkins (Soc Lab) 123 0.28 Maj. 1,149 2.62 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 71,035. Turnout 61.79% May 2005: Lab 16,370 (40.68%). C
11,898 (29.56%). LD 9,102 (22.62%). UKIP 2,645 (6.57%). Others 230 (0.57%).
Turnout 55.51%. 454 PONTYPRIDD Owen Smith (Lab) 14,220 38.78 Michael Powell (LD)
11,435 31.18 Lee Gonzalez (C) 5,932 16.18 Ioan Bellin (PC) 2,673 7.29 David
Bevan (UKIP) 1,229 3.35 Simon Parsons (Soc Lab) 456 1.24 Donald Watson (Ch P)
365 1.00 John Matthews (Green) 361 0.98 Maj. 2,785 7.59 Lab hold. Electorate
58,219. Turnout 62.99% May 2005: Lab 18,534 (54.22%). LD 6,840 (20.01%). C 3,949
(11.55%). PC 3,757 (10.99%). UKIP 871 (2.55%). Others 233 (0.68%). Turnout
63.16%. 455 POOLE +Robert Syms (C) 22,532 47.50 Philip Eades (LD) 14,991 31.60
Jason Sanderson (Lab) 6,041 12.74 Nick Wellstead (UKIP) 2,507 5.29 David Holmes
(BNP) 1,188 2.50 Ian Northover (Ind) 177 0.37 Maj. 7,541 15.90 C hold.
Electorate 64,661. Turnout 73.36% May 2005: C 18,296 (43.41%). LD 12,261
(29.09%). Lab 9,561 (22.69%). UKIP 1,479 (3.51%). Others 547 (1.30%). Turnout
63.96%. 456 POPLAR & LIMEHOUSE +Jim Fitzpatrick (Lab) 18,679 40.00 Tim Archer
(C) 12,649 27.09 +George Galloway (Respect) 8,160 17.47 Jonathan Fryer (LD)
5,209 11.15 Wayne Lochner (UKIP) 565 1.21 Andrew Osborne (Eng Dem) 470 1.01
Chris Smith (Green) 449 0.96 Kabir Mahmud (Ind) 293 0.63 Mohammed Hoque (Ind)
167 0.36 Jim Thornton (Ind) 59 0.13 Maj. 6,030 12.91 Lab hold. Electorate
74,956. Turnout 62.30% May 2005: Lab 12,463 (35.33%). C 8,640 (24.49%). Others
8,329 (23.61%). LD 4,919 (13.94%). Green 925 (2.62%). Turnout 50.07%. 457
PORTSMOUTH NORTH Penny Mordaunt (C) 19,533 44.27 +Sarah McCarthy-Fry (Lab Co-op)
12,244 27.75 Darren Sanders (LD) 8,874 20.11 Mike Fitzgerald (UKIP) 1,812 4.11
David Knight (Eng Dem) 1,040 2.36 Iain Maclennan (Green) 461 1.04 Mick Tosh
(TUSC) 154 0.35 Maj. 7,289 16.52 C gain from Lab. Electorate 70,329. Turnout
62.73% May 2005: Lab 15,858 (38.52%). C 15,543 (37.75%). LD 8,361 (20.31%). UKIP
1,407 (3.42%). Turnout 60.11%. 458 PORTSMOUTH SOUTH +Mike Hancock (LD) 18,921
45.85 Flick Drummond (C) 13,721 33.25 John Ferrett (Lab) 5,640 13.67 Christopher
Martin (UKIP) 876 2.12 Geoff Crompton (BNP) 873 2.12 Tim Dawes (Green) 716 1.74
Ian DuCane (Eng Dem) 400 0.97 Les Cummings (J & AC) 117 0.28 Maj. 5,200 12.60 LD
hold. Electorate 70,242. Turnout 58.75% May 2005: LD 15,370 (41.63%). C 12,415
(33.62%). Lab 8,268 (22.39%). UKIP 869 (2.35%). Turnout 57.42%. 459 PRESELI
PEMBROKESHIRE +Stephen Crabb (C) 16,944 42.79 Mari Rees (Lab) 12,339 31.16 Nick
Tregoning (LD) 5,759 14.54 Henry Jones-Davies (PC) 3,654 9.23 Richard Lawson (
UKIP) 906 2.29 Maj. 4,605 11.63 C hold. Electorate 57,419. Turnout 68.97% May
2005: C 14,261 (36.38%). Lab 13,660 (34.85%). LD 5,105 (13.02%). PC 4,895
(12.49%). UKIP 504 (1.29%). Green 499 (1.27%). Others 275 (0.70%). Turnout
70.00%. 460 PRESTON +Mark Hendrick (Lab Co-op) 15,668 48.20 Mark Jewell (LD)
7,935 24.41 Nerissa Warner-O'Neill (C) 7,060 21.72 Richard Muirhead (UKIP) 1,462
4.50 George Ambroze (Ch P) 272 0.84 Krishna Tayya (Ind) 108 0.33 Maj. 7,733
23.79 Lab Co-op hold. Electorate 62,460. Turnout 52.04% May 2005: Lab 14,663
(48.65%). C 6,325 (20.99%). LD 5,986 (19.86%). Others 2,318 (7.69%). UKIP 845
(2.80%). Turnout 54.18%. 461 PUDSEY Stuart Andrew (C) 18,874 38.45 Jamie Hanley
(Lab) 17,215 35.07 Jamie Matthews (LD) 10,224 20.83 Ian Gibson (BNP) 1,549 3.16
David Dews (UKIP) 1,221 2.49 Maj. 1,659 3.38 C gain from Lab. Electorate 69,257.
Turnout 70.87% May 2005: Lab 20,120 (45.41%). C 14,916 (33.66%). LD 8,044
(18.15%). UKIP 1,229 (2.77%). Turnout 65.94%. 462 PUTNEY +Justine Greening (C)
21,223 52.04 Stuart King (Lab) 11,170 27.39 James Sandbach (LD) 6,907 16.94
Bruce Mackenzie (Green) 591 1.45 Peter Darby (BNP) 459 1.13 Hugo Wareham (UKIP)
435 1.07 Maj. 10,053 24.65 C hold. Electorate 63,370. Turnout 64.36% May 2005: C
15,193 (42.35%). Lab 13,470 (37.55%). LD 5,861 (16.34%). Green 972 (2.71%). UKIP
380 (1.06%). Turnout 59.79%. 463 RAYLEIGH & WICKFORD +Mark Francois (C) 30,257
57.81 Susan Gaszczak (LD) 7,919 15.13 Michael Le-Surf (Lab) 7,577 14.48 John
Hayter (Eng Dem) 2,219 4.24 Tino Callaghan (UKIP) 2,211 4.22 Anthony Evennett
(BNP) 2,160 4.13 Maj. 22,338 42.68 C hold. Electorate 75,905. Turnout 68.96% May
2005: C 25,556 (53.87%). Lab 12,573 (26.50%). LD 7,336 (15.46%). UKIP 1,972
(4.16%). Turnout 63.98%.

464 READING EAST +Rob Wilson (C) 21,269 42.55 Gareth Epps (LD) 13,664 27.34
Anneliese Dodds (Lab) 12,729 25.47 Adrian Pitfield (UKIP) 1,086 2.17 Rob White
(Green) 1,069 2.14 Joan Lloyd (Ind) 111 0.22 Michael Turberville (Ind) 57 0.11
Maj. 7,605 15.21 C hold. Electorate 74,922. Turnout 66.72% May 2005: C 15,386
(35.65%). Lab 14,647 (33.94%). LD 10,517 (24.37%). Green 1,519 (3.52%). UKIP 834
(1.93%). Others 257 (0.60%). Turnout 58.49%. 465 READING WEST Alok Sharma (C)
20,523 43.18 Naz Sarkar (Lab) 14,519 30.55 Daisy Benson (LD) 9,546 20.08 Bruce
Hay (UKIP) 1,508 3.17 Howard Thomas (CSP) 852 1.79 Adrian Windisch (Green) 582
1.22 Maj. 6,004 12.63 C gain from Lab. Electorate 72,118. Turnout 65.91% May
2005: Lab 19,362 (45.04%). C 14,431 (33.57%). LD 6,781 (15.77%). UKIP 1,196
(2.78%). Green 950 (2.21%). Others 267 (0.62%). Turnout 59.91%. 466 REDCAR Ian
Swales (LD) 18,955 45.17 *Vera Baird (Lab) 13,741 32.75 Steve Mastin (C) 5,790
13.80 Martin Bulmer (UKIP) 1,875 4.47 Kevin Broughton (BNP) 1,475 3.52 Hannah
Walter (TUSC) 127 0.30 Maj. 5,214 12.43 LD gain from Lab. Swing 21.80 Lab to LD.
Electorate 67,125. Turnout 62.51% May 2005: Baird Lab 19,968 (51.38%). Swales LD
7,852 (20.21%). Lehrle C 6,954 (17.89%). McGlade Ind 2,379 (6.12%). Harris BNP
985 (2.53%). Walker UKIP 564 (1.45%). Taylor Soc Lab 159 (0.41%). Turnout
58.05%. 467 REDDITCH Karen Lumley (C) 19,138 43.48 +Jacqui Smith (Lab) 13,317
30.25 Nicholas Lane (LD) 7,750 17.61 Anne Davis (UKIP) 1,497 3.40 Andy Ingram
(BNP) 1,394 3.17 Kevin White (Green) 393 0.89 Vincent Schittone (Eng Dem) 255
0.58 Scott Beverley (Ch P) 101 0.23 Paul Swansborough (Ind) 100 0.23 Derek
Fletcher (Nobody) 73 0.17 Maj. 5,821 13.22 C gain from Lab. Electorate 68,550.
Turnout 64.21% May 2005: Lab 18,166 (43.69%). C 16,003 (38.49%). LD 5,975
(14.37%). UKIP 1,432 (3.44%). Turnout 63.59%. 468 REIGATE +Crispin Blunt (C)
26,688 53.40 Jane Kulka (LD) 13,097 26.21 Robert Hull (Lab) 5,672 11.35 Joe Fox
(UKIP) 2,089 4.18 Keith Brown (BNP) 1,345 2.69 Jonathan Essex (Green) 1,087 2.17
Maj. 13,591 27.19 C hold. Electorate 71,604. Turnout 69.80% May 2005: C 21,198
(48.56%). LD 10,105 (23.15%). Lab 9,388 (21.51%). UKIP 1,952 (4.47%). Others
1,008 (2.31%). Turnout 65.19%. 469 RENFREWSHIRE EAST *Jim Murphy (Lab) 25,987
50.77 Richard Cook (C) 15,567 30.42 Gordon Macdonald (LD) 4,720 9.22 Gordon
Archer (SNP) 4,535 8.86 Donald MacKay (UKIP) 372 0.73 Maj. 10,420 20.36 Lab
hold. Swing 3.16 C to Lab. Electorate 66,249. Turnout 77.26% May 2005: Murphy
Lab 20,815 (43.91%). Cook C 14,158 (29.87%). Macdonald LD 8,659 (18.27%). Bhutta
SNP 3,245 (6.85%). Henderson SSP 528 (1.11%). Turnout 72.14%. 470 RHONDDA *Chris
Bryant (Lab) 17,183 55.30 Geraint Davies (PC) 5,630 18.12 Paul Wasley (LD) 3,309
10.65 Philip Howe (Ind) 2,599 8.36 Juliet Henderson (C) 1,993 6.41 Taffy John (
UKIP) 358 1.15 Maj. 11,553 37.18 Lab hold. Swing 7.48 Lab to PC. Electorate
51,554. Turnout 60.27% May 2005: Bryant Lab 21,198 (68.06%). Jones PC 4,956
(15.91%). Roberts LD 3,264 (10.48%). Stuart- Smith C 1,730 (5.55%). Turnout
61.03%. 471 RIBBLE VALLEY +Nigel Evans (C) 26,298 50.30 Paul Foster (Lab) 11,529
22.05 Allan Knox (LD) 10,732 20.53 Stephen Rush (UKIP) 3,496 6.69 Tony Johnson
(ND) 232 0.44 Maj. 14,769 28.25 C hold. Electorate 78,068. Turnout 66.98% May
2005: C 20,693 (44.92%). Lab 13,740 (29.83%). LD 10,404 (22.58%). UKIP 1,229
(2.67%). Turnout 61.51%. 472 RICHMOND (YORKS) +William Hague (C) 33,541 62.80
Lawrence Meredith (LD) 10,205 19.11 Eileen Driver (Lab) 8,150 15.26 Leslie Rowe
(Green) 1,516 2.84 Maj. 23,336 43.69 C hold. Electorate 79,478. Turnout 67.20%
May 2005: C 29,793 (59.33%). Lab 10,343 (20.60%). LD 8,500 (16.93%). Green 1,581
(3.15%). Turnout 64.55%. 473 RICHMOND PARK Zac Goldsmith (C) 29,461 49.71 +Susan
Kramer (LD) 25,370 42.81 Eleanor Tunnicliffe (Lab) 2,979 5.03 Peter Dul (UKIP)
669 1.13 James Page (Green) 572 0.97 Susan May (CPA) 133 0.22 Charles Hill (Ind)
84 0.14 Maj. 4,091 6.90 C gain from LD. Electorate 77,060. Turnout 76.91% May
2005: LD 23,771 (46.65%). C 20,158 (39.56%). Lab 4,711 (9.25%). Green 1,379
(2.71%). Others 478 (0.94%). UKIP 454 (0.89%). Turnout 73.24%. 474 ROCHDALE
Simon Danczuk (Lab) 16,699 36.38 +Paul Rowen (LD) 15,810 34.44 Mudasir Dean (C)
8,305 18.09 Chris Jackson (NF) 2,236 4.87 Colin Denby (UKIP) 1,999 4.35 Mohammed
Salim (IZB) 545 1.19 John Whitehead (Ind) 313 0.68 Maj. 889 1.94 Lab hold.
Electorate 78,952. Turnout 58.15% May 2005: Lab 17,547 (40.86%). LD 17,398
(40.52%). C 4,493 (10.46%). Others 2,487 (5.79%). UKIP 568 (1.32%). Green 448
(1.04%). Turnout 57.24%. 475 ROCHESTER & STROOD Mark Reckless (C) 23,604 49.20
Teresa Murray (Lab) 13,651 28.46 Geoffrey Juby (LD) 7,800 16.26 Ron Sands (Eng
Dem) 2,182 4.55 Simon Marchant (Green) 734 1.53 Maj. 9,953 20.75 C hold.
Electorate 73,882. Turnout 64.93% May 2005: C 18,877 (42.64%). Lab 18,374
(41.51%). LD 5,468 (12.35%). UKIP 1,547 (3.49%). Turnout 62.41%. 476 ROCHFORD &
SOUTHEND EAST +James Duddridge (C) 19,509 46.86 Kevin Bonavia (Lab) 8,459 20.32
Graham Longley (LD) 8,084 19.42 James Moyies (UKIP) 2,405 5.78 Geoff Strobridge
(BNP) 1,856 4.46 Andrew Vaughan (Green) 707 1.70 Anthony Chytry (Ind) 611 1.47
Maj. 11,050 26.54 C hold. Electorate 71,080. Turnout 58.57% May 2005: C 17,449
(45.38%). Lab 12,142 (31.58%). LD 5,668 (14.74%). UKIP 1,863 (4.85%). Green
1,328 (3.45%). Turnout 55.48%. 477 ROMFORD +Andrew Rosindell (C) 26,031 56.00
Rachel Voller (Lab) 9,077 19.53 Helen Duffett (LD) 5,572 11.99 Robert Bailey
(BNP) 2,438 5.25 Gerard Batten (UKIP) 2,050 4.41 Dr Peter Thorogood (Eng Dem)
603 1.30 Gary Haines (Green) 447 0.96 Philip Hyde (Ind) 151 0.32 David Sturman
(Ind) 112 0.24 Maj. 16,954 36.48 C hold. Electorate 71,193. Turnout 65.29% May
2005: C 24,442 (57.66%). Lab 12,322 (29.07%). LD 3,572 (8.43%). Others 1,088
(2.57%). UKIP 965 (2.28%). Turnout 61.95%. 478 ROMSEY & SOUTHAMPTON NORTH
Caroline Nokes (C) 24,345 49.75 +Sandra Gidley (LD) 20,189 41.25 Aktar Beg (Lab)
3,116 6.37 John Meropoulos (UKIP) 1,289 2.63 Maj. 4,156 8.49 C gain from LD.
Electorate 66,901. Turnout 73.15% May 2005: LD 19,217 (43.60%). C 19,013
(43.14%). Lab 4,816 (10.93%). UKIP 1,025 (2.33%). Turnout 66.42%. 479 ROSS, SKYE
& LOCHABER *Charles Kennedy (LD) 18,335 52.63 John McKendrick (Lab) 5,265 15.11
Alasdair Stephen (SNP) 5,263 15.11 Donald Cameron (C) 4,260 12.23 Eleanor Scott
(Green) 777 2.23 Philip Anderson (UKIP) 659 1.89 Ronnie Campbell (Ind) 279 0.80
Maj. 13,070 37.52 LD hold. Swing 3.14 LD to Lab. Electorate 51,836. Turnout
67.21% May 2005: Kennedy LD 19,100 (58.70%). Conniff Lab 4,851 (14.91%). Hodgson
C 3,275 (10.07%). Will SNP 3,119 (9.59%). Jardine Green 1,097 (3.37%). Anderson
UKIP 500 (1.54%). Macleod SSP 412 (1.27%). Grant Ind 184 (0.57%). Turnout
64.42%. 480 ROSSENDALE & DARWEN Jake Berry (C) 19,691 41.78 +Janet Anderson
(Lab) 15,198 32.25 Robert Sheffield (LD) 8,541 18.12 David Duthie (UKIP) 1,617
3.43 Kevin Bryan (NF) 1,062 2.25 Michael Johnson (Eng Dem) 663 1.41 Tony Melia
(Impact) 243 0.52 Mike Sivieri (Ind) 113 0.24 Maj. 4,493 9.53 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 73,003. Turnout 64.56% May 2005: Lab 19,024 (43.00%). C 15,328
(34.64%). LD 6,587 (14.89%). Others 1,736 (3.92%). Green 829 (1.87%). UKIP 740
(1.67%). Turnout 61.60%. 481 ROTHER VALLEY +Kevin Barron (Lab) 19,147 40.95
Lynda Donaldson (C) 13,281 28.40 Wesley Paxton (LD) 8,111 17.35 Will Blair (BNP)
3,606 7.71 Tina Dowdall (UKIP) 2,613 5.59 Maj. 5,866 12.55 Lab hold. Electorate
72,841. Turnout 64.19% May 2005: Lab 20,929 (51.55%). C 9,371 (23.08%). LD 6,549
(16.13%). Others 2,020 (4.98%). UKIP 1,728 (4.26%). Turnout 57.69%. 482
ROTHERHAM +Denis MacShane (Lab) 16,741 44.64 Jackie Whiteley (C) 6,279 16.74
Rebecca Taylor (LD) 5,994 15.98 Marlene Guest (BNP) 3,906 10.41 Peter Thirlwall
(Ind) 2,366 6.31 Caven Vines (UKIP) 2,220 5.92 Maj. 10,462 27.89 Lab hold.
Electorate 63,565. Turnout 59.00% May 2005: Lab 19,371 (57.74%). LD 5,506
(16.41%). C 4,464 (13.31%). Others 1,986 (5.92%). UKIP 1,318 (3.93%). Green 905
(2.70%). Turnout 54.11%. 483 RUGBY Mark Pawsey (C) 20,901 44.03 Andy King (Lab)
14,901 31.39 Jerry Roodhouse (LD) 9,434 19.87 Mark Badrick (BNP) 1,375 2.90 Roy
Sandison (Green) 451 0.95 Barry Milford (UKIP) 406 0.86 Maj. 6,000 12.64 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 68,914. Turnout 68.88% May 2005: Lab 20,047 (43.53%). C
17,650 (38.32%). LD 6,896 (14.97%). UKIP 905 (1.97%). Others 557 (1.21%).
Turnout 67.40%. 484 RUISLIP, NORTHWOOD & PINNER +Nick Hurd (C) 28,866 57.50
Anita McDonald (Lab) 9,806 19.53 Thomas Papworth (LD) 8,345 16.62 Jason Pontey (
UKIP) 1,351 2.69 Ian Edward (NF) 899 1.79 Graham Lee (Green) 740 1.47 Ruby
Akhtar (Ch P) 198 0.39 Maj. 19,060 37.96 C hold. Electorate 70,873. Turnout
70.84% May 2005: C 23,652 (54.73%). Lab 10,378 (24.01%). LD 7,049 (16.31%).
Others 841 (1.95%). UKIP 650 (1.50%). Green 648 (1.50%). Turnout 62.37%. 485
RUNNYMEDE & WEYBRIDGE *Philip Hammond (C) 26,915 55.90 Andrew Falconer (LD)
10,406 21.61 Paul Greenwood (Lab) 6,446 13.39 Toby Micklethwait (UKIP) 3,146
6.53 Jenny Gould (Green) 696 1.45 David Sammons (Ind) 541 1.12 Maj. 16,509 34.29
C hold. Swing 0.38 LD to C. Electorate 72,566. Turnout 66.35% May 2005: Hammond
C 22,366 (51.39%). Greenwood Lab 10,017 (23.01%). Bolton LD 7,771 (17.85%).
Micklethwait UKIP 1,719 (3.95%). Gilman Green 1,180 (2.71%). Collett Loony 358
(0.82%). Osman UKC 113 (0.26%). Turnout 58.68%. 486 RUSHCLIFFE +Kenneth Clarke
(C) 27,470 51.17 Karrar Khan (LD) 11,659 21.72 Andrew Clayworth (Lab) 11,128
20.73 Matthew Faithfull (UKIP) 2,179 4.06 Richard Mallender (Green) 1,251 2.33
Maj. 15,811 29.45 C hold. Electorate 72,955. Turnout 73.59% May 2005: C 23,156
(48.02%). Lab 13,224 (27.42%). LD 8,351 (17.32%). Green 1,692 (3.51%). UKIP
1,175 (2.44%). Others 624 (1.29%). Turnout 69.97%. 487 RUTHERGLEN & HAMILTON
WEST Tom Greatrex (Lab Co-op) 28,566 60.80 Graeme Horne (SNP) 7,564 16.10 Ian
Robertson (LD) 5,636 12.00 Malcolm Macaskill (C) 4,540 9.66 Janice Murdoch (UKIP
) 675 1.44 Maj. 21,002 44.70 Lab Co-op hold. Swing 1.51 SNP to Lab. Electorate
76,408. Turnout 61.49% May 2005: McAvoy Lab Co-op 24,054 (55.60%). Robertson LD
7,942 (18.36%). Park SNP 6,023 (13.92%). Crerar C 3,621 (8.37%). Bonnar SSP
1,164 (2.69%). Murdoch UKIP 457 (1.06%). Turnout 58.46%. 488 RUTLAND & MELTON
+Alan Duncan (C) 28,228 51.12 Grahame Hudson (LD) 14,228 25.77 John Morgan (Lab)
7,893 14.29 Peter Baker (UKIP) 2,526 4.57 Keith Addison (BNP) 1,757 3.18 Leigh
Higgins (Ind) 588 1.06 Maj. 14,000 25.35 C hold. Electorate 77,185. Turnout
71.54%

May 2005: C 25,328 (51.23%). Lab 12,330 (24.94%). LD 9,183 (18.58%). UKIP 1,562
(3.16%). Others 1,033 (2.09%). Turnout 65.34%. 489 SAFFRON WALDEN +Sir Alan
Haselhurst (C) 30,155 55.46 Peter Wilcock (LD) 14,913 27.43 Barbara Light (Lab)
5,288 9.73 Roger Lord (UKIP) 2,228 4.10 Christine Mitchell (BNP) 1,050 1.93 Reza
Hossain (Green) 735 1.35 Maj. 15,242 28.03 C hold. Electorate 76,035. Turnout
71.51% May 2005: C 25,086 (50.84%). LD 14,603 (29.60%). Lab 6,995 (14.18%).
Others 1,335 (2.71%). UKIP 1,320 (2.68%). Turnout 68.80%. 490 ST ALBANS +Anne
Main (C) 21,533 40.76 Sandy Walkington (LD) 19,228 36.39 Roma Mills (Lab) 9,288
17.58 John Stocker (UKIP) 2,028 3.84 Jack Easton (Green) 758 1.43 Maj. 2,305
4.36 C hold. Electorate 70,058. Turnout 75.42% May 2005: C 16,921 (37.26%). Lab
15,587 (34.33%). LD 11,547 (25.43%). UKIP 706 (1.55%). Others 649 (1.43%).
Turnout 68.53%. 491 ST AUSTELL & NEWQUAY Stephen Gilbert (LD) 20,189 42.74
Caroline Righton (C) 18,877 39.96 Lee Jameson (Lab) 3,386 7.17 Dick Cole (Meb
Ker) 2,007 4.25 Clive Medway (UKIP) 1,757 3.72 James Fitton (BNP) 1,022 2.16
Maj. 1,312 2.78 LD hold. Electorate 76,346. Turnout 61.87% May 2005: LD 21,747
(47.28%). C 16,024 (34.83%). Lab 6,335 (13.77%). UKIP 1,895 (4.12%). Turnout
64.91%. 492 ST HELENS NORTH +Dave Watts (Lab) 23,041 51.71 Paul Greenall (C)
9,940 22.31 John Beirne (LD) 8,992 20.18 Gary Robinson (UKIP) 2,100 4.71 Stephen
Whatham (Soc Lab) 483 1.08 Maj. 13,101 29.40 Lab hold. Electorate 74,985.
Turnout 59.42% May 2005: Lab 23,993 (57.35%). LD 8,728 (20.86%). C 7,884
(18.85%). UKIP 1,231 (2.94%). Turnout 55.69%. 493 ST HELENS SOUTH & WHISTON
+Shaun Woodward (Lab) 24,364 52.87 Brian Spencer (LD) 10,242 22.23 Val Allen (C)
8,209 17.81 James Winstanley (BNP) 2,040 4.43 John Sumner (UKIP) 1,226 2.66 Maj.
14,122 30.65 Lab hold. Electorate 77,975. Turnout 59.10% May 2005: Lab 22,820
(55.59%). LD 11,833 (28.82%). C 4,977 (12.12%). UKIP 781 (1.90%). Others 643
(1.57%). Turnout 53.20%. 494 ST IVES +Andrew George (LD) 19,619 42.72 Derek
Thomas (C) 17,900 38.98 Philippa Latimer (Lab) 3,751 8.17 Mick Faulkner (UKIP)
2,560 5.57 Tim Andrewes (Green) 1,308 2.85 Jonathan Rogers (Cornish D) 396 0.86
Simon Reed (Meb Ker) 387 0.84 Maj. 1,719 3.74 LD hold. Electorate 66,930.
Turnout 68.61% May 2005: LD 22,651 (51.84%). C 11,940 (27.33%). Lab 5,473
(12.53%). UKIP 1,889 (4.32%). Green 1,738 (3.98%). Turnout 67.78%. 495 SALFORD &
ECCLES +Hazel Blears (Lab) 16,655 40.10 Norman Owen (LD) 10,930 26.32 Matthew
Sephton (C) 8,497 20.46 Tina Wingfield (BNP) 2,632 6.34 Duran O'Dwyer (UKIP)
1,084 2.61 David Henry (TUSC) 730 1.76 Stephen Morris (Eng Dem) 621 1.50 Richard
Carvath (Ind) 384 0.92 Maj. 5,725 13.78 Lab hold. Electorate 75,482. Turnout
55.02% May 2005: Lab 18,183 (55.43%). LD 7,476 (22.79%). C 5,528 (16.85%). UKIP
1,618 (4.93%). Turnout 45.51%. 496 SALISBURY John Glen (C) 23,859 49.21 Nick
Radford (LD) 17,893 36.91 Tom Gann (Lab) 3,690 7.61 Frances Howard (UKIP) 1,392
2.87 Sean Witheridge (BNP) 765 1.58 Nick Startin (Green) 506 1.04 King Arthur
(Ind) 257 0.53 John Holme (Ind) 119 0.25 Maj. 5,966 12.31 C hold. Electorate
67,429. Turnout 71.90% May 2005: C 21,085 (46.40%). LD 12,225 (26.90%). Lab
8,455 (18.61%). UKIP 1,884 (4.15%). Green 1,555 (3.42%). Others 240 (0.53%).
Turnout 68.53%. 497 SCARBOROUGH & WHITBY *Robert Goodwill (C) 21,108 42.83
Annajoy David (Lab) 12,978 26.33 Tania Exley-Moore (LD) 11,093 22.51 Michael
James (UKIP) 1,484 3.01 Trisha Scott (BNP) 1,445 2.93 Dilys Cluer (Green) 734
1.49 Peter Popple (Ind) 329 0.67 Juliet Boddington (Green Soc) 111 0.23 Maj.
8,130 16.50 C hold. Swing 6.92 Lab to C. Electorate 75,443. Turnout 65.32% May
2005: Goodwill C 19,248 (41.03%). Quinn Lab 18,003 (38.38%). Exley-Moore LD
7,495 (15.98%). Dixon Green 1,214 (2.59%). Abbott UKIP 952 (2.03%). Turnout
63.56%. 498 SCUNTHORPE Nic Dakin (Lab) 14,640 39.53 Caroline Johnson (C) 12,091
32.65 Neil Poole (LD) 6,774 18.29 Jane Collins (UKIP) 1,686 4.55 Douglas Ward
(BNP) 1,447 3.91 Natalie Hurst (Green) 396 1.07 Maj. 2,549 6.88 Lab hold.
Electorate 63,089. Turnout 58.70% May 2005: Lab 17,815 (52.04%). C 9,177
(26.81%). LD 5,835 (17.05%). UKIP 1,403 (4.10%). Turnout 54.44%. 499 SEDGEFIELD
+Phil Wilson (Lab) 18,141 45.10 Neil Mahapatra (C) 9,445 23.48 Alan Thompson
(LD) 8,033 19.97 Mark Walker (BNP) 2,075 5.16 Brian Gregory (UKIP) 1,479 3.68
Paul Gittins (Ind) 1,049 2.61 Maj. 8,696 21.62 Lab hold. Electorate 64,727.
Turnout 62.14% May 2005: Lab 23,943 (58.97%). C 5,745 (14.15%). Others 5,486
(13.51%). LD 4,786 (11.79%). UKIP 639 (1.57%). Turnout 62.35%. 500 SEFTON
CENTRAL Bill Esterson (Lab) 20,307 41.90 Debi Jones (C) 16,445 33.93 Richard
Clein (LD) 9,656 19.92 Peter Harper (UKIP) 2,055 4.24 Maj. 3,862 7.97 Lab hold.
Electorate 67,512. Turnout 71.78% May 2005: Lab 18,776 (45.60%). C 13,826
(33.58%). LD 7,915 (19.22%). Others 356 (0.86%). UKIP 306 (0.74%). Turnout
60.78%. 501 SELBY & AINSTY Nigel Adams (C) 25,562 49.42 Jan Marshall (Lab)
13,297 25.71 Tom Holvey (LD) 9,180 17.75 Darren Haley (UKIP) 1,635 3.16 Duncan
Lorriman (BNP) 1,377 2.66 Graham Michael (Eng Dem) 677 1.31 Maj. 12,265 23.71 C
hold. Electorate 72,789. Turnout 71.07% May 2005: C 22,554 (47.15%). Lab 20,494
(42.84%). LD 4,785 (10.00%). Turnout 68.92%. 502 SEVENOAKS +Michael Fallon (C)
28,076 56.82 Alan Bullion (LD) 10,561 21.38 Gareth Siddorn (Lab) 6,541 13.24
Chris Heath (UKIP) 1,782 3.61 Paul Golding (BNP) 1,384 2.80 Louise Uncles (Eng
Dem) 806 1.63 Mark Ellis (Ind) 258 0.52 Maj. 17,515 35.45 C hold. Electorate
69,591. Turnout 71.00% May 2005: C 22,982 (51.37%). LD 9,922 (22.18%). Lab 9,492
(21.22%). UKIP 1,355 (3.03%). Others 984 (2.20%). Turnout 66.02%. 503 SHEFFIELD
BRIGHTSIDE & HILLSBOROUGH +David Blunkett (Lab) 21,400 54.99 Jonathan Harston
(LD) 7,768 19.96 John Sharp (C) 4,468 11.48 John Sheldon (BNP) 3,026 7.78 Pat
Sullivan (UKIP) 1,596 4.10 Maxine Bowler (TUSC) 656 1.69 Maj. 13,632 35.03 Lab
hold. Electorate 68,186. Turnout 57.07% May 2005: Lab 23,126 (69.59%). LD 4,325
(13.02%). C 3,250 (9.78%). Others 1,537 (4.63%). UKIP 992 (2.99%). Turnout
49.99%. 504 SHEFFIELD CENTRAL Paul Blomfield (Lab) 17,138 41.33 Paul Scriven
(LD) 16,973 40.93 Andrew Lee (C) 4,206 10.14 Jillian Creasy (Green) 1,556 3.75
Tracey Smith (BNP) 903 2.18 Jeffrey Shaw (UKIP) 652 1.57 Rod Rodgers (Ind) 40
0.10 Maj. 165 0.40 Lab hold. Electorate 69,519. Turnout 59.65% May 2005: Lab
15,463 (46.54%). LD 10,438 (31.42%). C 3,046 (9.17%). Green 1,901 (5.72%).
Others 1,823 (5.49%). UKIP 554 (1.67%). Turnout 55.01%. 505 SHEFFIELD HALLAM
+Nick Clegg (LD) 27,324 53.44 Nicola Bates (C) 12,040 23.55 Jack Scott (Lab)
8,228 16.09 Nigel James (UKIP) 1,195 2.34 Steve Barnard (Green) 919 1.80 David
Wildgoose (Eng Dem) 586 1.15 Martin Fitzpatrick (Ind) 429 0.84 Ray Green (Ch P)
250 0.49 Mark Adshead (Loony) 164 0.32 Maj. 15,284 29.89 LD hold. Electorate
69,378. Turnout 73.70% May 2005: LD 21,253 (46.35%). C 13,837 (30.18%). Lab
8,160 (17.80%). Green 1,171 (2.55%). Others 810 (1.77%). UKIP 621 (1.35%).
Turnout 67.91%. 506 SHEFFIELD HEELEY +Meg Munn (Lab) 17,409 42.59 Simon
Clement-Jones (LD) 11,602 28.39 Anne Crampton (C) 7,081 17.33 John Beatson (BNP)
2,260 5.53 Charlotte Arnott (UKIP) 1,530 3.74 Gareth Roberts (Green) 989 2.42
Maj. 5,807 14.21 Lab hold. Electorate 65,869. Turnout 62.05% May 2005: Lab
20,418 (54.05%). LD 8,078 (21.39%). C 5,428 (14.37%). Others 1,579 (4.18%).
Green 1,379 (3.65%). UKIP 891 (2.36%). Turnout 57.70%. 507 SHEFFIELD SOUTH EAST
+Clive Betts (Lab) 20,169 48.71 Gail Smith (LD) 9,664 23.34 Nigel Bonson (C)
7,202 17.39 Christopher Hartigan (BNP) 2,345 5.66 Jonathan Arnott (UKIP) 1,889
4.56 Steven Andrew (Comm Brit) 139 0.34 Maj. 10,505 25.37 Lab hold. Electorate
67,284. Turnout 61.54% May 2005: Lab 22,023 (60.28%). LD 6,180 (16.91%). C 5,250
(14.37%). UKIP 1,606 (4.40%). Others 1,477 (4.04%). Turnout 54.70%. 508 SHERWOOD
Mark Spencer (C) 19,211 39.24 Emilie Oldknow (Lab) 18,997 38.81 Kevin Moore (LD)
7,283 14.88 James North (BNP) 1,754 3.58 Margot Parker (UKIP) 1,490 3.04 Russ
Swan (Ind) 219 0.45 Maj. 214 0.44 C gain from Lab. Electorate 71,043. Turnout
68.91% May 2005: Lab 21,327 (49.38%). C 14,458 (33.47%). LD 5,806 (13.44%). UKIP
1,601 (3.71%). Turnout 61.83%. 509 SHIPLEY +Philip Davies (C) 24,002 48.56 Susan
Hinchcliffe (Lab) 14,058 28.44 John Harris (LD) 9,890 20.01 Kevin Warnes (Green)
1,477 2.99 Maj. 9,944 20.12 C hold. Electorate 67,689. Turnout 73.02% May 2005:
C 18,077 (38.83%). Lab 17,627 (37.87%). LD 7,059 (15.16%). Others 2,189 (4.70%).
Green 1,599 (3.43%). Turnout 68.09%. 510 SHREWSBURY & ATCHAM *Daniel Kawczynski
(C) 23,313 43.95 Charles West (LD) 15,369 28.97 Jon Tandy (Lab) 10,915 20.58
Peter Lewis (UKIP) 1,627 3.07 James Whittall (BNP) 1,168 2.20 Alan Whittaker
(Green) 565 1.07 James Gollings (Impact) 88 0.17 Maj. 7,944 14.98 C hold. Swing
0.06 LD to C. Electorate 75,438. Turnout 70.32% May 2005: Kawczynski C 18,960
(37.70%). Ion Lab 17,152 (34.10%). Burt LD 11,487 (22.84%). Lewis UKIP 1,349
(2.68%). Bullard Green 1,138 (2.26%). Gollins Ind 126 (0.25%). Harris Online 84
(0.17%). Turnout 68.72%. 511 SHROPSHIRE NORTH *Owen Paterson (C) 26,692 51.46
Ian Croll (LD) 10,864 20.95 Ian McLaughlan (Lab) 9,406 18.13 Sandra List (UKIP)
2,432 4.69 Phil Reddall (BNP) 1,667 3.21 Steve Boulding (Green) 808 1.56 Maj.
15,828 30.52 C hold. Swing 0.33 LD to C. Electorate 78,926. Turnout 65.72% May
2005: Paterson C 23,061 (49.58%). Samuels Lab 12,041 (25.89%). Bourne LD 9,175
(19.73%). Smith UKIP 2,233 (4.80%). Turnout 63.30%. 512 SITTINGBOURNE & SHEPPEY
Gordon Henderson (C) 24,313 50.05 Angela Harrison (Lab) 11,930 24.56 Keith
Nevols (LD) 7,943 16.35 Ian Davison (UKIP) 2,610 5.37 Lawrence Tames (BNP) 1,305
2.69 Mad Mike Young (Loony) 319 0.66 David Cassidy (Ind) 158 0.33 Maj. 12,383
25.49 C hold. Electorate 75,354. Turnout 64.47% May 2005: C 17,933 (41.72%). Lab
17,911 (41.67%). LD 5,478 (12.74%). UKIP 989 (2.30%). Others 671 (1.56%).
Turnout 65.20%. 513 SKIPTON & RIPON Julian Smith (C) 27,685 50.59 Helen Flynn
(LD) 17,735 32.41 Claire Hazelgrove (Lab) 5,498 10.05 Rodney Mills (UKIP) 1,909
3.49 Bernard Allen (BNP) 1,403 2.56 Roger Bell (Ind) 315 0.58 Dylan Gilligan
(Youth) 95 0.17 Robert Leakey (Currency) 84 0.15 Maj. 9,950 18.18 C hold.
Electorate 77,381. Turnout 70.72% May 2005: C 24,747 (50.01%). LD 13,151
(26.58%).

Lab 9,038 (18.26%). UKIP 2,274 (4.60%). Others 274 (0.55%). Turnout 66.13%. 514
SLEAFORD & NORTH HYKEHAM Stephen Phillips (C) 30,719 51.60 David Harding-Price
(LD) 10,814 18.17 James Normington (Lab) 10,051 16.88 Marianne Overton (Lincs
Ind) 3,806 6.39 Rodger Doughty (UKIP) 2,163 3.63 Mike Clayton (BNP) 1,977 3.32
Maj. 19,905 33.44 C hold. Electorate 85,550. Turnout 69.59% May 2005: C 26,566
(50.56%). Lab 13,879 (26.41%). LD 9,485 (18.05%). UKIP 2,614 (4.97%). Turnout
66.75%. 515 SLOUGH +Fiona Mactaggart (Lab) 21,884 45.84 Diana Coad (C) 16,361
34.27 Chris Tucker (LD) 6,943 14.54 Peter Mason-Apps (UKIP) 1,517 3.18 Miriam
Kennet (Green) 542 1.14 Sunil Chaudhary (Ch P) 495 1.04 Maj. 5,523 11.57 Lab
hold. Electorate 77,068. Turnout 61.95% May 2005: Lab 18,434 (46.19%). C 10,510
(26.34%). LD 6,681 (16.74%). Others 1,999 (5.01%). UKIP 1,470 (3.68%). Green 813
(2.04%). Turnout 53.89%. 516 SOLIHULL +Lorely Burt (LD) 23,635 42.87 Maggie
Throup (C) 23,460 42.55 Sarah-Jayne Merrill (Lab) 4,891 8.87 Andrew Terry (BNP)
1,624 2.95 John Ison (UKIP) 1,200 2.18 Neill Watts (RA) 319 0.58 Maj. 175 0.32
LD gain from C. Electorate 77,863. Turnout 70.80% May 2005: C 20,058 (39.65%).
LD 19,934 (39.41%). Lab 7,902 (15.62%). Others 1,752 (3.46%). UKIP 937 (1.85%).
Turnout 67.41%. 517 SOMERSET NORTH +Dr Liam Fox (C) 28,549 49.27 Brian Mathew
(LD) 20,687 35.70 Steven Parry-Hearn (Lab) 6,448 11.13 Susan Taylor (UKIP) 2,257
3.90 Maj. 7,862 13.57 C hold. Electorate 77,304. Turnout 74.95% May 2005: C
21,631 (41.81%). LD 15,624 (30.20%). Lab 11,267 (21.78%). Green 1,309 (2.53%).
UKIP 1,272 (2.46%). Others 633 (1.22%). Turnout 71.76%. 518 SOMERSET NORTH EAST
Jacob Rees-Mogg (C) 21,130 41.27 +Dan Norris (Lab) 16,216 31.67 Gail Coleshill
(LD) 11,433 22.33 Peter Sandell (UKIP) 1,754 3.43 Michael Jay (Green) 670 1.31
Maj. 4,914 9.60 C hold. Electorate 67,412. Turnout 75.96% May 2005: C 18,149
(39.10%). Lab 17,937 (38.64%). LD 9,096 (19.60%). UKIP 1,013 (2.18%). Others 221
(0.48%). Turnout 71.48%. 519 SOMERTON & FROME +David Heath (LD) 28,793 47.50
Annunziata Rees-Mogg (C) 26,976 44.51 David Oakensen (Lab) 2,675 4.41 Barry
Harding (UKIP) 1,932 3.19 Niall Warry (Leave EU) 236 0.39 Maj. 1,817 3.00 LD
hold. Electorate 81,548. Turnout 74.33% May 2005: LD 23,341 (43.75%). C 22,746
(42.64%). Lab 5,775 (10.82%). UKIP 1,004 (1.88%). Others 484 (0.91%). Turnout
69.25%. 520 SOUTH HOLLAND & THE DEEPINGS +John Hayes (C) 29,639 59.06 Jennifer
Conroy (LD) 7,759 15.46 Gareth Gould (Lab) 7,024 14.00 Richard Fairman (UKIP)
3,246 6.47 Roy Harban (BNP) 1,796 3.58 Ashley Baxter (Green) 724 1.44 Maj.
21,880 43.60 C hold. Electorate 76,243. Turnout 65.83% May 2005: C 26,549
(57.00%). Lab 11,422 (24.52%). LD 5,995 (12.87%). UKIP 1,867 (4.01%). Others 747
(1.60%). Turnout 61.49%. 521 SOUTH RIBBLE Lorraine Fullbrook (C) 23,396 45.47
+David Borrow (Lab) 17,842 34.67 Peter Fisher (LD) 7,271 14.13 David Duxbury (
UKIP) 1,895 3.68 Rosalind Gauci (BNP) 1,054 2.05 Maj. 5,554 10.79 C gain from
Lab. Electorate 75,822. Turnout 67.87% May 2005: Lab 20,642 (44.26%). C 18,114
(38.84%). LD 6,854 (14.70%). UKIP 1,029 (2.21%). Turnout 63.43%. 522 SOUTH
SHIELDS +David Miliband (Lab) 18,995 52.02 Karen Allen (C) 7,886 21.59 Stephen
Psallidas (LD) 5,189 14.21 Donna Watson (BNP) 2,382 6.52 Shirley Ford (Green)
762 2.09 Siamak Kaikavoosi (Ind) 729 2.00 Victor Thompson (Ind) 316 0.87 Sam
Navabi (Ind) 168 0.46 Roger Nettleship (Anti-War) 91 0.25 Maj. 11,109 30.42 Lab
hold. Electorate 63,294. Turnout 57.70% May 2005: Lab 19,529 (60.78%). LD 6,161
(19.18%). C 5,667 (17.64%). Others 773 (2.41%). Turnout 50.71%. 523 SOUTHAMPTON
ITCHEN +John Denham (Lab) 16,326 36.76 Royston Smith (C) 16,134 36.33 David
Goodall (LD) 9,256 20.84 Alan Kebbell (UKIP) 1,928 4.34 John Spottiswoode
(Green) 600 1.35 Tim Cutter (TUSC) 168 0.38 Maj. 192 0.43 Lab hold. Electorate
74,532. Turnout 59.59% May 2005: Lab 19,493 (48.28%). C 11,014 (27.28%). LD
8,373 (20.74%). UKIP 1,495 (3.70%). Turnout 54.78%. 524 SOUTHAMPTON TEST +Alan
Whitehead (Lab) 17,001 38.48 Jeremy Moulton (C) 14,588 33.01 David Callaghan
(LD) 9,865 22.33 Pearline Hingston (UKIP) 1,726 3.91 Chris Bluemel (Green) 881
1.99 Charles Sanderson (Ind) 126 0.29 Maj. 2,413 5.46 Lab hold. Electorate
71,931. Turnout 61.43% May 2005: Lab 18,022 (44.21%). C 10,205 (25.03%). LD
9,826 (24.10%). Green 1,482 (3.64%). UKIP 1,232 (3.02%). Turnout 55.99%. 525
SOUTHEND WEST +David Amess (C) 20,086 46.06 Peter Welch (LD) 12,816 29.39 Thomas
Flynn (Lab) 5,850 13.42 Garry Cockrill (UKIP) 1,714 3.93 Tony Gladwin (BNP)
1,333 3.06 Barry Bolton (Green) 644 1.48 Dr Vel (Ind) 617 1.41 Terry Phillips
(Eng Dem) 546 1.25 Maj. 7,270 16.67 C hold. Electorate 66,527. Turnout 65.55%
May 2005: C 18,726 (46.16%). LD 9,718 (23.95%). Lab 9,190 (22.65%). Others 1,552
(3.83%). UKIP 1,383 (3.41%). Turnout 61.14%. 526 SOUTHPORT *John Pugh (LD)
21,707 49.61 Brenda Porter (C) 15,683 35.84 Jim Conalty (Lab) 4,116 9.41 Terry
Durrance (UKIP) 2,251 5.14 Maj. 6,024 13.77 LD hold. Swing 2.23 C to LD.
Electorate 67,202. Turnout 65.11% May 2005: Pugh LD 19,093 (46.34%). Bigley C
15,255 (37.03%). Brant Lab 5,277 (12.81%). Durrance UKIP 749 (1.82%). Givens YPB
589 (1.43%). Forster Veritas 238 (0.58%). Turnout 60.61%. 527 SPELTHORNE Kwasi
Kwarteng (C) 22,261 47.06 Mark Chapman (LD) 12,242 25.88 Adam Tyler-Moore (Lab)
7,789 16.47 Christopher Browne (UKIP) 4,009 8.47 Ian Swinglehurst (Ind) 314 0.66
Rod Littlewood (Best) 244 0.52 Paul Couchman (TUSC) 176 0.37 John Gore (CIP) 167
0.35 Grahame Leon-Smith (Ind Fed) 102 0.22 Maj. 10,019 21.18 C hold. Swing 6.11
C to LD. Electorate 70,479. Turnout 67.12% May 2005: Wilshire C 21,620 (50.48%).
Dibble Lab 11,684 (27.28%). James LD 7,318 (17.09%). Browne UKIP 1,968 (4.60%).
Schwark UKC 239 (0.56%). Turnout 61.49%. 528 STAFFORD Jeremy Lefroy (C) 22,047
43.88 +David Kidney (Lab) 16,587 33.02 Barry Stamp (LD) 8,211 16.34 Roy Goode (
UKIP) 1,727 3.44 Roland Hynd (BNP) 1,103 2.20 Mike Shone (Green) 564 1.12 Maj.
5,460 10.87 C gain from Lab. Electorate 70,587. Turnout 71.17% May 2005: Lab
19,970 (43.20%). C 18,118 (39.19%). LD 6,613 (14.31%). UKIP 1,525 (3.30%).
Turnout 66.94%. 529 STAFFORDSHIRE MOORLANDS Karen Bradley (C) 19,793 45.17
+Charlotte Atkins (Lab) 13,104 29.91 Henry Jebb (LD) 7,338 16.75 Steve Povey (
UKIP) 3,580 8.17 Maj. 6,689 15.27 C hold. Electorate 62,071. Turnout 70.59% May
2005: C 16,671 (39.73%). Lab 15,053 (35.87%). LD 7,377 (17.58%). UKIP 2,862
(6.82%). Turnout 67.79%. 530 STAFFORDSHIRE SOUTH Gavin Williamson (C) 26,834
53.20 Kevin McElduff (Lab) 10,244 20.31 Sarah Fellows (LD) 8,427 16.71 Mike
Nattrass (UKIP) 2,753 5.46 David Bradnock (BNP) 1,928 3.82 Andrew Morris (Ind)
254 0.50 Maj. 16,590 32.89 C hold. Electorate 73,390. Turnout 68.73% May 2005: C
13,794 (50.65%). Lab 5,448 (20.00%). LD 3,654 (13.42%). UKIP 2,757 (10.12%).
Others 1,144 (4.20%). Green 437 (1.60%). Turnout 37.62%. 531 STALYBRIDGE & HYDE
Jonathan Reynolds (Lab) 16,189 39.60 Rob Adlard (C) 13,445 32.89 John Potter
(LD) 6,965 17.04 Anthony Jones (BNP) 2,259 5.53 John Cooke (UKIP) 1,342 3.28
Ruth Bergan (Green) 679 1.66 Maj. 2,744 6.71 Lab hold. Electorate 69,037.
Turnout 59.21% May 2005: Lab 17,779 (49.72%). C 9,324 (26.07%). LD 5,584
(15.62%). Others 1,399 (3.91%). Green 1,088 (3.04%). UKIP 586 (1.64%). Turnout
53.87%. 532 STEVENAGE Stephen McPartland (C) 18,491 41.41 Sharon Taylor (Lab
Co-op) 14,913 33.40 Julia Davies (LD) 7,432 16.64 Marion Mason (UKIP) 2,004 4.49
Andrew Green (BNP) 1,007 2.26 Charles Vickers (Eng Dem) 366 0.82 Stephen
Phillips (No vote) 327 0.73 David Cox (Ind) 80 0.18 Andrew Ralph (YRDPL) 31 0.07
Maj. 3,578 8.01 C gain from Lab. Electorate 68,937. Turnout 64.77% May 2005: Lab
17,602 (43.10%). C 14,314 (35.05%). LD 7,500 (18.36%). UKIP 1,272 (3.11%).
Others 152 (0.37%). Turnout 62.63%. 533 STIRLING *Anne McGuire (Lab) 19,558
41.80 Bob Dalrymple (C) 11,204 23.94 Alison Lindsay (SNP) 8,091 17.29 Graham
Reed (LD) 6,797 14.53 Mark Ruskell (Green) 746 1.59 Paul Henke (UKIP) 395 0.84
Maj. 8,354 17.85 Lab hold. Swing 3.47 C to Lab. Electorate 66,080. Turnout
70.81% May 2005: McGuire Lab 15,729 (36.00%). Kerr C 10,962 (25.09%). Holdsworth
LD 9,052 (20.72%). McGlinchey SNP 5,503 (12.60%). Illingworth Green 1,302
(2.98%). Sheret SSP 458 (1.05%). McDonald Ind 261 (0.60%). Willis OCV 215
(0.49%). Desmond UKIP 209 (0.48%). Turnout 67.68%. 534 STOCKPORT +Ann Coffey
(Lab) 16,697 42.67 Stephen Holland (C) 9,913 25.33 Stuart Bodsworth (LD) 9,778
24.99 Duncan Warner (BNP) 1,201 3.07 Mike Kelly (UKIP) 862 2.20 Peter Barber
(Green) 677 1.73 Maj. 6,784 17.34 Lab hold. Electorate 63,525. Turnout 61.59%
May 2005: Lab 18,119 (52.32%). C 8,137 (23.50%). LD 7,419 (21.42%). UKIP 955
(2.76%). Turnout 53.98%. 535 STOCKTON NORTH Alex Cunningham (Lab) 16,923 42.85
Ian Galletley (C) 10,247 25.94 Philip Latham (LD) 6,342 16.06 James Macpherson
(BNP) 1,724 4.36 +Frank Cook (Ind) 1,577 3.99 Gordon Parkin (UKIP) 1,556 3.94
Ian Saul (Eng Dem) 1,129 2.86 Maj. 6,676 16.90 Lab hold. Electorate 67,363.
Turnout 58.63% May 2005: Lab 20,800 (54.84%). C 8,058 (21.25%). LD 7,061
(18.62%). UKIP 1,023 (2.70%). Others 986 (2.60%). Turnout 58.10%. 536 STOCKTON
SOUTH James Wharton (C) 19,577 38.93 +Dari Taylor (Lab) 19,245 38.27 Jacquie
Bell (LD) 7,600 15.11 Neil Sinclair (BNP) 1,553 3.09 Peter Braney (UKIP) 1,471
2.93 Yvonne Hossack (Ind) 536 1.07 Ted Strike (Ch P) 302 0.60 Maj. 332 0.66 C
gain from Lab. Electorate 74,552. Turnout 67.45% May 2005: Lab 20,692 (47.65%).
C 14,858 (34.22%). LD 6,979 (16.07%). UKIP 894 (2.06%). Turnout 62.46%. 537
STOKE-ON-TRENT CENTRAL Tristram Hunt (Lab) 12,605 38.82 John Redfern (LD) 7,039
21.68 Norsheen Bhatti (C) 6,833 21.04 Simon Darby (BNP) 2,502 7.71 Carol Lovatt
(UKIP) 1,402 4.32 Paul Breeze (Ind) 959 2.95 Gary Elsby (Ind) 399 1.23 Brian
Ward (City Ind) 303 0.93 Alby Walker (Ind) 295 0.91 Matthew Wright (TUSC) 133
0.41 Maj. 5,566 17.14 Lab hold. Electorate 60,995. Turnout 53.23% May 2005: Lab
15,068 (52.41%). LD 5,351 (18.61%). C 4,977 (17.31%). Others 2,424 (8.43%). UKIP
930 (3.23%). Turnout 48.70%. 538 STOKE-ON-TRENT NORTH +Joan Walley (Lab) 17,815
44.32 Andy Large (C) 9,580 23.83 John Fisher (LD) 7,120 17.71 Melanie Baddeley
(BNP) 3,196 7.95 Geoffrey Locke (UKIP) 2,485 6.18 Maj. 8,235 20.49 Lab hold.
Electorate 72,052. Turnout 55.79% May 2005: Lab 20,064 (55.84%). C 6,398
(17.81%). LD 4,845 (13.48%). Others 3,157 (8.79%). UKIP 1,469 (4.09%). Turnout
50.89%.

539 STOKE-ON-TRENT SOUTH +Rob Flello (Lab) 15,446 38.76 James Rushton (C) 11,316
28.40 Zulfiqar Ali (LD) 6,323 15.87 Michael Coleman (BNP) 3,762 9.44 Mark Barlow
(UKIP) 1,363 3.42 Terry Follows (Staffs Ind) 1,208 3.03 Mark Breeze (Ind) 434
1.09 Maj. 4,130 10.36 Lab hold. Electorate 68,031. Turnout 58.58% May 2005:
5,529 (15.06%). Others 4,110 (11.19%). UKIP 1,009 (2.75%). Turnout 54.21%. 540
STONE +Bill Cash (C) 23,890 50.58 Christine Tinker (LD) 10,598 22.44 Jo Lewis
(Lab) 9,770 20.69 Andrew Illsley (UKIP) 2,481 5.25 Damon Hoppe (Green) 490 1.04
Maj. 13,292 28.14 C hold. Electorate 66,979. Turnout 70.51% May 2005: C 21,178
(48.41%). Lab 12,987 (29.69%). LD 8,154 (18.64%). UKIP 1,425 (3.26%). Turnout
67.00%. 541 STOURBRIDGE Margot James (C) 20,153 42.67 +Lynda Waltho (Lab) 14,989
31.73 Christopher Bramall (LD) 7,733 16.37 Maddy Westrop (UKIP) 2,103 4.45
Robert Weale (BNP) 1,696 3.59 Will Duckworth (Green) 394 0.83 Alun Nicholas
(Ind) 166 0.35 Maj. 5,164 10.93 C gain from Lab. Electorate 69,637. Turnout
67.83% May 2005: Lab 18,469 (42.16%). C 17,189 (39.24%). LD 6,982 (15.94%). UKIP
1,163 (2.66%). Turnout 63.88%. 543 STRATFORD-ON-AVON Nadhim Zahawi (C) 26,052
51.55 Martin Turner (LD) 14,706 29.10 Robert Johnston (Lab) 4,809 9.51 Brett
Parsons (UKIP) 1,846 3.65 George Jones (BNP) 1,097 2.17 Neil Basnett (Ind) 1,032
2.04 Karen Varga (Green) 527 1.04 Fred Bishop (Eng Dem) 473 0.94 Maj. 11,346
22.45 C hold. Electorate 69,516. Turnout 72.71% May 2005: C 23,452 (51.29%). LD
12,524 (27.39%). Lab 7,077 (15.48%). Green 1,463 (3.20%). UKIP 1,212 (2.65%).
Turnout 69.17%. 544 STREATHAM Chuka Umunna (Lab) 20,037 42.78 Chris Nicholson
(LD) 16,778 35.82 Rahoul Bhansali (C) 8,578 18.31 Rebecca Findlay (Green) 861
1.84 Geoffrey Macharia (Ch P) 237 0.51 Janus Polenceus (Eng Dem) 229 0.49 Paul
Lepper (WRP) 117 0.25 Maj. 3,259 6.96 Lab hold. Electorate 74,531. Turnout
62.84% May 2005: Lab 17,699 (46.96%). LD 11,115 (29.49%). C 6,138 (16.28%).
Green 2,072 (5.50%). UKIP 366 (0.97%). Others 302 (0.80%). Turnout 51.85%. 545
STRETFORD & URMSTON Kate Green (Lab) 21,821 48.59 Alex Williams (C) 12,886 28.69
Steve Cooke (LD) 7,601 16.92 David Owen (UKIP) 1,508 3.36 Margaret Westbrook
(Green) 916 2.04 Samuel Jacob (Ch P) 178 0.40 Maj. 8,935 19.90 Lab hold.
Electorate 70,091. Turnout 64.07% May 2005: Lab 20,061 (51.37%). C 11,751
(30.09%). LD 5,429 (13.90%). Others 950 (2.43%). UKIP 863 (2.21%). Turnout
63.88%. 546 STROUD Neil Carmichael (C) 23,679 40.84 +David Drew (Lab Co-op)
22,380 38.60 Dennis Andrewartha (LD) 8,955 15.45 Martin Whiteside (Green) 1,542
2.66 Steve Parker (UKIP) 1,301 2.24 Alan Lomas (Ind) 116 0.20 Maj. 1,299 2.24 C
gain from Lab. Electorate 78,305. Turnout 74.03% May 2005: Lab 21,592 (40.15%).
C 20,596 (38.30%). LD 7,499 (13.95%). Green 3,056 (5.68%). UKIP 1,032 (1.92%).
Turnout 70.13%. 547 SUFFOLK CENTRAL & IPSWICH NORTH Daniel Poulter (C) 27,125
50.78 Andrew Aalders-Dunthorne (LD) 13,339 24.97 Bhavna Joshi (Lab) 8,636 16.17
Roy Philpot (UKIP) 2,361 4.42 Andrew Stringer (Green) 1,452 2.72 Mark Trevitt
(Ind) 389 0.73 Richard Vass (New Party) 118 0.22 Maj. 13,786 25.81 C hold.
Electorate 75,848. Turnout 70.43% May 2005: C 21,570 (44.53%). Lab 13,784
(28.46%). LD 9,808 (20.25%). UKIP 1,681 (3.47%). Green 1,593 (3.29%). Turnout
67.07%. 548 SUFFOLK COASTAL Therese Coffey (C) 25,475 46.41 Daisy Cooper (LD)
16,347 29.78 Adam Leeder (Lab) 8,812 16.05 Stephen Bush (UKIP) 3,156 5.75 Rachel
Fulcher (Green) 1,103 2.01 Maj. 9,128 16.63 C hold. Electorate 76,687. Turnout
71.58% May 2005: C 23,391 (44.57%). Lab 13,717 (26.14%). LD 11,610 (22.12%).
UKIP 2,014 (3.84%). Green 1,753 (3.34%). Turnout 67.21%. 549 SUFFOLK SOUTH +Tim
Yeo (C) 24,550 47.75 Nigel Bennett (LD) 15,861 30.85 Emma Bishton (Lab) 7,368
14.33 David Campbell Bannerman (UKIP) 3,637 7.07 Maj. 8,689 16.90 C hold.
Electorate 72,498. Turnout 70.92% May 2005: C 20,551 (42.07%). LD 13,887
(28.43%). Lab 11,954 (24.47%). UKIP 2,461 (5.04%). Turnout 68.80%. 550 SUFFOLK
WEST Matthew Hancock (C) 24,312 50.56 Belinda Brooks-Gordon (LD) 11,262 23.42
Ohid Ahmed (Lab) 7,089 14.74 Ian Smith (UKIP) 3,085 6.42 Ramon Johns (BNP) 1,428
2.97 Andrew Appleby (Ind) 540 1.12 Colin Young (CPA) 373 0.78 Maj. 13,050 27.14
C hold. Electorate 74,413. Turnout 64.62% May 2005: C 21,439 (48.90%). Lab
12,704 (28.98%). LD 7,539 (17.20%). UKIP 2,161 (4.93%). Turnout 60.79%. 551
SUNDERLAND CENTRAL Julie Elliott (Lab) 19,495 45.91 Lee Martin (C) 12,770 30.07
Paul Dixon (LD) 7,191 16.93 John McCaffrey (BNP) 1,913 4.51 Pauline
Featonby-Warren (UKIP) 1,094 2.58 Maj. 6,725 15.84 Lab hold. Electorate 74,485.
Turnout 57.01% May 2005: Lab 18,543 (50.03%). C 9,079 (24.50%). LD 6,249
(16.86%). Others 3,193 (8.61%). Turnout 50.68%. 552 SURREY EAST Sam Gyimah (C)
31,007 56.75 David Lee (LD) 14,133 25.87 Mathew Rodda (Lab) 4,925 9.01 Helena
Windsor (UKIP) 3,770 6.90 Martin Hogbin (Loony) 422 0.77 Sandy Pratt (Ind) 383
0.70 Maj. 16,874 30.88 C hold. Swing 0.72 C to LD. Electorate 76,855. Turnout
71.09% May 2005: Ainsworth C 27,659 (56.16%). Pursehouse LD 11,738 (23.83%).
Bridge Lab 7,288 (14.80%). Stone UKIP 2,158 (4.38%). Matthews LCA 410 (0.83%).
Turnout 66.60%. 553 SURREY HEATH *Michael Gove (C) 31,326 57.64 Alan Hilliar
(LD) 14,037 25.83 Matthew Willey (Lab) 5,552 10.22 Mark Stroud (UKIP) 3,432 6.31
Maj. 17,289 31.81 C hold. Swing 4.58 LD to C. Electorate 77,690. Turnout 69.95%
May 2005: Gove C 24,642 (51.49%). Harper LD 13,797 (28.83%). Lowe Lab 7,989
(16.69%). Smith UKIP 1,430 (2.99%). Turnout 62.90%. 554 SURREY SOUTH WEST
+Jeremy Hunt (C) 33,605 58.69 Mike Simpson (LD) 17,287 30.19 Richard Mollet
(Lab) 3,419 5.97 Roger Meekins (UKIP) 1,486 2.60 Cherry Allan (Green) 690 1.21
Helen Hamilton (BNP) 644 1.12 Luke Leighton (Pirate) 94 0.16 Arthur Price (Ind)
34 0.06 Maj. 16,318 28.50 C hold. Electorate 77,980. Turnout 73.43% May 2005: C
26,903 (50.62%). LD 20,934 (39.39%). Lab 4,171 (7.85%). UKIP 967 (1.82%). Others
172 (0.32%). Turnout 70.00%. 555 SUSSEX MID +Nicholas Soames (C) 28,329 50.72
Serena Tierney (LD) 20,927 37.47 David Boot (Lab) 3,689 6.60 Marc Montgomery (
UKIP) 1,423 2.55 Paul Brown (Green) 645 1.15 Stuart Minihane (BNP) 583 1.04
Baron Von Thunderclap (Loony) 259 0.46 Maj. 7,402 13.25 C hold. Electorate
77,182. Turnout 72.37% May 2005: C 24,715 (48.25%). LD 18,253 (35.64%). Lab
6,567 (12.82%). UKIP 1,683 (3.29%). Turnout 68.87%. 556 SUTTON & CHEAM +Paul
Burstow (LD) 22,156 45.67 Philippa Stroud (C) 20,548 42.36 Kathy Allen (Lab)
3,376 6.96 John Clarke (BNP) 1,014 2.09 David Pickles (UKIP) 950 1.96 Peter
Hickson (Green) 246 0.51 John Dodds (Eng Dem) 106 0.22 Matthew Connolly (CPA) 52
0.11 Martin Cullip (Libertarian) 41 0.08 Dr Brian Hammond (UK Integrity) 19 0.04
Maj. 1,608 3.31 LD hold. Electorate 66,658. Turnout 72.77% May 2005: LD 20,255
(46.86%). C 17,566 (40.64%). Lab 5,116 (11.84%). Others 288 (0.67%). Turnout
67.24%. 557 SUTTON COLDFIELD +Andrew Mitchell (C) 27,303 53.97 Robert Pocock
(Lab) 10,298 20.36 Richard Brighton (LD) 9,117 18.02 Robert Grierson (BNP) 1,749
3.46 Edward Siddall-Jones (UKIP) 1,587 3.14 Joe Rooney (Green) 535 1.06 Maj.
17,005 33.61 C hold. Electorate 74,489. Turnout 67.91% May 2005: C 24,235
(52.58%). Lab 11,917 (25.85%). LD 7,679 (16.66%). UKIP 2,262 (4.91%). Turnout
62.76%. 558 SWANSEA EAST *Sian James (Lab) 16,819 51.47 Robert Speht (LD) 5,981
18.30 Christian Holliday (C) 4,823 14.76 Dic Jones (PC) 2,181 6.67 Clive Bennett
(BNP) 1,715 5.25 David Rogers (UKIP) 839 2.57 Tony Young (Green) 318 0.97 Maj.
10,838 33.17 Lab hold. Swing 1.66 Lab to LD. Electorate 59,823. Turnout 54.62%
May 2005: James Lab 17,457 (56.62%). Speht LD 6,208 (20.13%). Bland C 3,103
(10.06%). Couch PC 2,129 (6.90%). Holloway BNP 770 (2.50%). Jenkins UKIP 674
(2.19%). Young Green 493 (1.60%). Turnout 52.43%. 559 SWANSEA WEST Geraint
Davies (Lab) 12,335 34.66 Peter May (LD) 11,831 33.24 Rene Kinzett (C) 7,407
20.81 Harri Roberts (PC) 1,437 4.04 Alan Bateman (BNP) 910 2.56 Tim Jenkins (
UKIP) 716 2.01 Keith Ross (Green) 404 1.14 Ian McCloy (Ind) 374 1.05 Rob
Williams (TUSC) 179 0.50 Maj. 504 1.42 Lab hold. Swing 5.74 Lab to LD.
Electorate 61,334. Turnout 58.03% May 2005: Williams Lab 13,833 (41.81%).
Kinzett LD 9,564 (28.91%). Abdel-Haq C 5,285 (15.97%). Roberts PC 2,150 (6.50%).
Shrewsbury Green 738 (2.23%). Ford UKIP 609 (1.84%). Holley Veritas 401 (1.21%).
Williams Soc Alt 288 (0.87%). Pank LCA 218 (0.66%). Turnout 57.10%. 560 SWINDON
NORTH Justin Tomlinson (C) 22,408 44.55 Victor Agarwal (Lab) 15,348 30.52 Jane
Lock (LD) 8,668 17.23 Stephen Halden (UKIP) 1,842 3.66 Reginald Bates (BNP)
1,542 3.07 Bill Hughes (Green) 487 0.97 Maj. 7,060 14.04 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 78,391. Turnout 64.16% May 2005: Lab 19,311 (45.11%). C 16,636
(38.86%). LD 5,502 (12.85%). UKIP 959 (2.24%). Others 403 (0.94%). Turnout
60.80%. 561 SWINDON SOUTH Robert Buckland (C) 19,687 41.78 +Anne Snelgrove (Lab)
16,143 34.26 Damon Hooton (LD) 8,305 17.63 Robin Tingey (UKIP) 2,029 4.31 Jenni
Miles (Green) 619 1.31 Alastair Kirk (Ch P) 176 0.37 Karsten Evans (Ind) 160
0.34 Maj. 3,544 7.52 C gain from Lab. Electorate 72,622. Turnout 64.88% May
2005: Lab 17,227 (40.41%). C 15,734 (36.91%). LD 7,244 (16.99%). Green 1,234
(2.89%). UKIP 941 (2.21%). Others 246 (0.58%). Turnout 58.97%. 562 TAMWORTH
Christopher Pincher (C) 21,238 45.78 *Brian Jenkins (Lab) 15,148 32.65 Jenny
Pinkett (LD) 7,516 16.20 Paul Smith (UKIP) 2,253 4.86 Charlene Detheridge (Ch P)
235 0.51 Maj. 6,090 13.13 C gain from Lab. Swing 9.50 Lab to C. Electorate
72,693. Turnout 63.82% May 2005: Jenkins Lab 18,801 (42.98%). Pincher C 16,232
(37.11%). Bennion LD 6,175 (14.12%). Eston Veritas 1,320 (3.02%). Simpson UKIP
1,212 (2.77%). Turnout 61.03%. 563 TATTON +George Osborne (C) 24,687 54.58 David
Lomax (LD) 10,200 22.55 Richard Jackson (Lab) 7,803 17.25 Sarah Flannery (Ind)
2,243 4.96 Michael Gibson (Poetry) 298 0.66 Maj. 14,487 32.03 C hold. Electorate
65,689. Turnout 68.86% May 2005: C 21,415 (51.47%). Lab 9,878 (23.74%). LD 9,066
(21.79%). UKIP 1,006 (2.42%). Others 239 (0.57%). Turnout 63.91%. 564 TAUNTON
DEANE +Jeremy Browne (LD) 28,531 49.06 Mark Formosa (C) 24,538 42.20 Martin
Jevon (Lab) 2,967 5.10 Tony McIntyre (UKIP) 2,114 3.64 Maj. 3,993 6.87 LD hold.
Electorate 82,537. Turnout 70.45% May 2005: LD 25,159 (44.41%). C 23,291
(41.11%). Lab 6,844 (12.08%). UKIP 1,355 (2.39%). Turnout 69.28%. 565 TELFORD
+David Wright (Lab) 15,974 38.67 Tom Biggins (C) 14,996 36.30

Phil Bennion (LD) 6,399 15.49 Denis Allen (UKIP) 2,428 5.88 Phil Spencer (BNP)
1,513 3.66 Maj. 978 2.37 Lab hold. Electorate 65,061. Turnout 63.49% May 2005:
Lab 18,119 (48.14%). C 12,468 (33.13%). LD 5,301 (14.08%). UKIP 1,748 (4.64%).
Turnout 58.67%. 566 TEWKESBURY +Laurence Robertson (C) 25,472 47.20 Alistair
Cameron (LD) 19,162 35.51 Stuart Emmerson (Lab) 6,253 11.59 Brian Jones (UKIP)
2,230 4.13 Matthew Sidford (Green) 525 0.97 George Ridgeon (Loony) 319 0.59 Maj.
6,310 11.69 C hold. Electorate 76,655. Turnout 70.39% May 2005: C 22,238
(48.18%). LD 13,108 (28.40%). Lab 9,364 (20.29%). Green 1,442 (3.12%). Turnout
62.23%. 567 THANET NORTH +Roger Gale (C) 22,826 52.66 Michael Britton (Lab)
9,298 21.45 Laura Murphy (LD) 8,400 19.38 Rosamund Parker (UKIP) 2,819 6.50 Maj.
13,528 31.21 C hold. Electorate 69,432. Turnout 62.43% May 2005: C 19,126
(47.93%). Lab 13,008 (32.60%). LD 6,205 (15.55%). UKIP 1,566 (3.92%). Turnout
59.20%. 568 THANET SOUTH Laura Sandys (C) 22,043 47.99 +Dr Stephen Ladyman (Lab)
14,426 31.41 Peter Bucklitsch (LD) 6,935 15.10 Trevor Shonk (UKIP) 2,529 5.51
Maj. 7,617 16.58 C hold. Electorate 71,596. Turnout 64.16% May 2005: C 19,003
(41.21%). Lab 18,193 (39.46%). LD 5,631 (12.21%). UKIP 2,205 (4.78%). Green 888
(1.93%). Others 188 (0.41%). Turnout 65.06%. 570 THORNBURY & YATE +Steve Webb
(LD) 25,032 51.91 Matthew Riddle (C) 17,916 37.15 Roxanne Egan (Lab) 3,385 7.02
Jenny Knight (UKIP) 1,709 3.54 Thomas Beacham (Ind Fed) 126 0.26 Anthony
Clements (ND) 58 0.12 Maj. 7,116 14.76 LD hold. Electorate 64,092. Turnout
75.24% May 2005: LD 25,622 (54.33%). C 14,562 (30.88%). Lab 5,122 (10.86%).
Green 922 (1.96%). UKIP 818 (1.73%). Others 114 (0.24%). Turnout 73.64%. 571
THURROCK Jackie Doyle-Price (C) 16,869 36.81 Carl Morris (Lab) 16,777 36.61
Carys Davis (LD) 4,901 10.70 Emma Colgate (BNP) 3,618 7.90 Clive Broad (UKIP)
3,390 7.40 Arinola Araba (Ch P) 266 0.58 Maj. 92 0.20 C gain from Lab.
Electorate 92,390. Turnout 49.60% May 2005: Lab 19,017 (46.20%). C 13,659
(33.18%). LD 4,555 (11.06%). Others 2,526 (6.14%). UKIP 1,409 (3.42%). Turnout
54.50%. 572 TIVERTON & HONITON Neil Parish (C) 27,614 50.30 Jon Underwood (LD)
18,294 33.33 Vernon Whitlock (Lab) 4,907 8.94 Daryl Stanbury (UKIP) 3,277 5.97
Cathy Connor (Green) 802 1.46 Maj. 9,320 16.98 C hold. Electorate 76,810.
Turnout 71.47% May 2005: C 23,961 (46.68%). LD 14,954 (29.13%). Lab 6,851
(13.35%). UKIP 2,466 (4.80%). Others 1,701 (3.31%). Green 1,399 (2.73%). Turnout
70.43%. 573 TONBRIDGE & MALLING *Sir John Stanley (C) 29,723 57.92 Elizabeth
Simpson (LD) 11,545 22.50 Daniel Griffiths (Lab) 6,476 12.62 David Waller (UKIP)
1,911 3.72 Steve Dawe (Green) 764 1.49 Mike Easter (NF) 505 0.98 Lisa Rogers
(Eng Dem) 390 0.76 Maj. 18,178 35.43 C hold. Swing 1.02 LD to C. Electorate
71,790. Turnout 71.48% May 2005: Stanley C 24,357 (52.88%). Hayman Lab 11,005
(23.89%). Barstow LD 8,980 (19.50%). Waller UKIP 1,721 (3.74%). Turnout 67.30%.
574 TOOTING +Sadiq Khan (Lab) 22,038 43.51 Mark Clarke (C) 19,514 38.52 Nasser
Butt (LD) 7,509 14.82 Strachan McDonald (UKIP) 624 1.23 Roy Vickery (Green) 609
1.20 Susan John-Richards (Ind) 190 0.38 Shereen Paul (Ch P) 171 0.34 Maj. 2,524
4.98 Lab hold. Electorate 73,836. Turnout 68.60% May 2005: Lab 18,129 (42.70%).
C 12,960 (30.53%). LD 8,314 (19.58%). Green 1,731 (4.08%). Others 892 (2.10%).
UKIP 431 (1.02%). Turnout 59.35%. 575 TORBAY +Adrian Sanders (LD) 23,126 46.99
Marcus Wood (C) 19,048 38.71 David Pedrick-Friend (Lab) 3,231 6.57 Julien
Parrott (UKIP) 2,628 5.34 Ann Conway (BNP) 709 1.44 Sam Moss (Green) 468 0.95
Maj. 4,078 8.29 LD hold. Electorate 76,151. Turnout 64.62% May 2005: LD 18,943
(41.77%). C 16,216 (35.76%). Lab 6,555 (14.45%). UKIP 3,634 (8.01%). Turnout
60.25%. 576 TORFAEN *Paul Murphy (Lab) 16,847 44.76 Jonathan Burns (C) 7,541
20.03 David Morgan (LD) 6,264 16.64 Rhys ab Elis (PC) 2,005 5.33 Jennifer Noble
(BNP) 1,657 4.40 Fred Wildgust (Ind) 1,419 3.77 Gareth Dunn (UKIP) 862 2.29
Richard Turner-Thomas (Ind) 607 1.61 Owen Clarke (Green) 438 1.16 Maj. 9,306
24.72 Lab hold. Swing 8.19 Lab to C. Electorate 61,178. Turnout 61.53% May 2005:
Murphy Lab 20,472 (56.90%). Ramsay C 5,681 (15.79%). Watkins LD 5,678 (15.78%).
Preece PC 2,242 (6.23%). Rowlands UKIP 1,145 (3.18%). Turner-Thomas Ind 761
(2.12%). Turnout 59.30%. 577 TOTNES Dr Sarah Wollaston (C) 21,940 45.86 Julian
Brazil (LD) 17,013 35.56 Carole Whitty (Lab) 3,538 7.40 Jeff Beer (UKIP) 2,890
6.04 Lydia Somerville (Green) 1,181 2.47 Mike Turner (BNP) 624 1.30 Simon Drew
(Ind) 390 0.82 Dr Stephen Hopwood (Ind) 267 0.56 Maj. 4,927 10.30 C hold.
Electorate 67,937. Turnout 70.42% May 2005: C 20,009 (42.81%). LD 17,316
(37.05%). Lab 5,674 (12.14%). UKIP 3,537 (7.57%). Others 199 (0.43%). Turnout
69.71%. 578 TOTTENHAM *David Lammy (Lab) 24,128 59.30 David Schmitz (LD) 7,197
17.69 Sean Sullivan (C) 6,064 14.90 Jenny Sutton (TUSC) 1,057 2.60 Anne Gray
(Green) 980 2.41 Winston McKenzie (UKIP) 466 1.15 Neville Watson (Ind People)
265 0.65 Abimbola Kadara (Ch P) 262 0.64 Sheik Thompson (Ind) 143 0.35 Errol
Carr (Ind) 125 0.31 Maj. 16,931 41.61 Lab hold. Swing 0.22 LD to Lab. Electorate
69,933. Turnout 58.18% May 2005: Lammy Lab 18,343 (57.93%). Hoban LD 5,309
(16.77%). MacDougall C 4,278 (13.51%). Alder Respect 2,014 (6.36%). McAskie
Green 1,457 (4.60%). Durrani Soc Lab 263 (0.83%). Turnout 47.81%. 579 TRURO &
FALMOUTH Sarah Newton (C) 20,349 41.73 Terrye Teverson (LD) 19,914 40.83
Charlotte Mackenzie (Lab) 4,697 9.63 Harry Blakeley (UKIP) 1,911 3.92 Loic Rich
(Meb Ker) 1,039 2.13 Ian Wright (Green) 858 1.76 Maj. 435 0.89 C gain from LD.
Electorate 70,598. Turnout 69.08% May 2005: LD 17,406 (40.97%). C 13,475
(31.72%). Lab 8,090 (19.04%). UKIP 2,447 (5.76%). Others 1,062 (2.50%). Turnout
65.07%. 580 TUNBRIDGE WELLS +Greg Clark (C) 28,302 56.24 David Hallas (LD)
12,726 25.29 Gary Heather (Lab) 5,448 10.83 Victor Webb (UKIP) 2,054 4.08 Hazel
Dawe (Green) 914 1.82 Andrew McBride (BNP) 704 1.40 Farel Bradbury (Ind) 172
0.34 Maj. 15,576 30.95 C hold. Electorate 72,042. Turnout 69.85% May 2005: C
23,099 (50.67%). LD 11,527 (25.29%). Lab 9,309 (20.42%). UKIP 1,653 (3.63%).
Turnout 66.08%. 581 TWICKENHAM *Vince Cable (LD) 32,483 54.39 Deborah Thomas (C)
20,343 34.06 Brian Tomlinson (Lab) 4,583 7.67 Brian Gilbert (UKIP) 868 1.45
Steve Roest (Green) 674 1.13 Chris Hurst (BNP) 654 1.10 Harry Cole (R and E) 76
0.13 Paul Armstrong (Magna Carta) 40 0.07 Maj. 12,140 20.33 LD hold. Swing 0.52
C to LD. Electorate 79,861. Turnout 74.78% May 2005: Cable LD 26,696 (51.65%).
Maynard C 16,731 (32.37%). Whitington Lab 5,868 (11.35%). Gower Green 1,445
(2.80%). Orchard UKIP 766 (1.48%). Gilbert Ind 117 (0.23%). Weiss Vote Dream 64
(0.12%). Turnout 71.77%. 582 TYNEMOUTH +Alan Campbell (Lab) 23,860 45.30 Wendy
Morton (C) 18,121 34.41 John Appleby (LD) 7,845 14.90 Dorothy Brooke (BNP) 1,404
2.67 Natasha Payne (UKIP) 900 1.71 Julia Erskine (Green) 538 1.02 Maj. 5,739
10.90 Lab hold. Electorate 75,680. Turnout 69.59% May 2005: Lab 22,752 (48.28%).
C 17,262 (36.63%). LD 7,109 (15.09%). Turnout 66.04%. 583 TYNESIDE NORTH Mary
Glindon (Lab) 23,505 50.65 David Ord (LD) 10,621 22.89 Gagan Mohindra (C) 8,514
18.35 John Burrows (BNP) 1,860 4.01 Claudia Blake (UKIP) 1,306 2.81 Bob Batten
(NF) 599 1.29 Maj. 12,884 27.76 Lab hold. Electorate 77,690. Turnout 59.73% May
2005: Lab 23,713 (59.38%). LD 8,784 (22.00%). C 7,438 (18.63%). Turnout 55.40%.
587 UXBRIDGE & RUISLIP SOUTH +John Randall (C) 21,758 48.27 Sidharath Garg (Lab)
10,542 23.39 Michael Cox (LD) 8,995 19.96 Dianne Neal (BNP) 1,396 3.10 Mark
Wadsworth (UKIP) 1,234 2.74 Mike Harling (Green) 477 1.06 Roger Cooper (Eng Dem)
403 0.89 Francis Mcallister (NF) 271 0.60 Maj. 11,216 24.88 C hold. Electorate
71,168. Turnout 63.34% May 2005: C 17,712 (44.44%). Lab 10,534 (26.43%). LD
9,034 (22.67%). Others 1,047 (2.63%). Green 876 (2.20%). UKIP 655 (1.64%).
Turnout 58.60%. 588 VALE OF CLWYD +Chris Ruane (Lab) 15,017 42.26 Matt Wright
(C) 12,508 35.20 Paul Penlington (LD) 4,472 12.59 Caryl Wyn Jones (PC) 2,068
5.82 Ian Si'Ree (BNP) 827 2.33 Tom Turner (UKIP) 515 1.45 Mike Butler (Green
Soc) 127 0.36 Maj. 2,509 7.06 Lab hold. Electorate 55,781. Turnout 63.70% May
2005: Lab 14,977 (45.88%). C 10,348 (31.70%). LD 3,865 (11.84%). PC 2,346
(7.19%). Others 728 (2.23%). UKIP 380 (1.16%). Turnout 65.77%. 589 VALE OF
GLAMORGAN Alun Cairns (C) 20,341 41.80 Alana Davies (Lab) 16,034 32.95 Eluned
Parrott (LD) 7,403 15.21 Ian Johnson (PC) 2,667 5.48 Kevin Mahoney (UKIP) 1,529
3.14 Rhodri Thomas (Green) 457 0.94 John Harrold (Ch P) 236 0.48 Maj. 4,307 8.85
C gain from Lab. Electorate 70,262. Turnout 69.27% May 2005: Lab 19,068
(40.79%). C 17,494 (37.42%). LD 6,171 (13.20%). PC 2,426 (5.19%). UKIP 822
(1.76%). Others 767 (1.64%). Turnout 68.52%. 590 VAUXHALL +Kate Hoey (Lab)
21,498 49.77 Caroline Pidgeon (LD) 10,847 25.11 Glyn Chambers (C) 9,301 21.53
Joseph Healy (Green) 708 1.64 Jose Navarro (Eng Dem) 289 0.67 Lana Martin (Ch P)
200 0.46 Daniel Lambert (Soc) 143 0.33 Jeremy Drinkall (WP) 109 0.25 James
Kapetanos (APP) 96 0.22 Maj. 10,651 24.66 Lab hold. Electorate 74,811. Turnout
57.73% May 2005: Lab 17,928 (51.75%). LD 9,425 (27.21%). C 5,048 (14.57%). Green
1,538 (4.44%). Others 461 (1.33%). UKIP 244 (0.70%). Turnout 48.42%. 591
WAKEFIELD +Mary Creagh (Lab) 17,454 39.27 Alex Story (C) 15,841 35.64 David
Smith (LD) 7,256 16.33 Ian Senior (BNP) 2,581 5.81 Miriam Hawkins (Green) 873
1.96 Mark Harrop (Ind) 439 0.99 Maj. 1,613 3.63 Lab hold. Electorate 70,834.
Turnout 62.74% May 2005: Lab 18,497 (44.05%). C 11,148 (26.55%). LD 7,889
(18.79%). Others 3,171 (7.55%). Green 818 (1.95%). UKIP 467 (1.11%). Turnout
61.45%. 592 WALLASEY +Angela Eagle (Lab) 21,578 51.80 Leah Fraser (C) 13,071
31.38 Steve Pitt (LD) 5,693 13.67 Derek Snowden (UKIP) 1,205 2.89 Emmanuel Mwaba
(Ind) 107 0.26 Maj. 8,507 20.42 Lab hold. Electorate 65,915. Turnout 63.19% May
2005: Lab 20,752 (54.51%). C 11,622 (30.53%). LD 4,843 (12.72%). UKIP 855
(2.25%). Turnout 57.78%. 593 WALSALL NORTH +David Winnick (Lab) 13,385 36.99
Helyn Clack (C) 12,395 34.25 Nadia Fazal (LD) 4,754 13.14 Christopher Woodall
(BNP) 2,930 8.10 Elizabeth Hazell (UKIP) 1,737 4.80 Peter Smith (Dem Lab) 842
2.33 Babar Shakir (Ch P) 144 0.40 Maj. 990 2.74 Lab hold. Electorate 65,183.
Turnout 55.52% May 2005: Lab 16,008 (48.23%). C 9,107 (27.44%). LD 4,102
(12.36%). Others 2,762 (8.32%). UKIP 1,215 (3.66%). Turnout 52.17%. 594 WALSALL
SOUTH Valerie Vaz (Lab) 16,211 39.65 Richard Hunt (C) 14,456 35.36 Dr Murli
Sinha (LD) 5,880 14.38 Derek Bennett (UKIP) 3,449 8.44

Gulzaman Khan (Ch P) 482 1.18 Mohammed Mulia (ND) 404 0.99 Maj. 1,755 4.29 Lab
hold. Electorate 64,830. Turnout 63.06% May 2005: Lab 18,739 (49.20%). C 10,829
(28.43%). LD 3,738 (9.81%). Others 2,922 (7.67%). UKIP 1,861 (4.89%). Turnout
59.98%. 595 WALTHAMSTOW Stella Creasy (Lab) 21,252 51.84 Farid Ahmed (LD) 11,774
28.72 Andy Hemsted (C) 5,734 13.99 Judith Chisholm-Benli (UKIP) 823 2.01 Daniel
Perrett (Green) 767 1.87 Nancy Taaffe (TUSC) 279 0.68 Ashar Mall (Ch P) 248 0.60
Paul Warburton (Ind) 117 0.29 Maj. 9,478 23.12 Lab hold. Swing 0.04 Lab to LD.
Electorate 64,625. Turnout 63.43% May 2005: Gerrard Lab 17,323 (50.29%). Ahmed
LD 9,330 (27.09%). Wright C 6,254 (18.16%). Brock UKIP 810 (2.35%). Taaffe Soc
Alt 727 (2.11%). Turnout 54.60%. 596 WANSBECK Ian Lavery (Lab) 17,548 45.85
Simon Reed (LD) 10,517 27.48 Campbell Storey (C) 6,714 17.54 Stephen Finlay
(BNP) 1,418 3.70 Linda Lee-Stokoe (UKIP) 974 2.54 Nic Best (Green) 601 1.57
Malcolm Reid (Ind) 359 0.94 Michael Flynn (Ch P) 142 0.37 Maj. 7,031 18.37 Lab
hold. Swing 5.19 Lab to LD. Electorate 63,045. Turnout 60.71% May 2005: Murphy
Lab 20,315 (55.19%). Reed LD 9,734 (26.44%). Scrope C 5,515 (14.98%). Best Green
1,245 (3.38%). Turnout 58.34%. 597 WANTAGE +Ed Vaizey (C) 29,284 51.98 Alan
Armitage (LD) 15,737 27.93 Steven Mitchell (Lab) 7,855 13.94 Jacqueline Jones (
UKIP) 2,421 4.30 Adam Twine (Green) 1,044 1.85 Maj. 13,547 24.04 C hold.
Electorate 80,456. Turnout 70.03% May 2005: C 22,424 (43.08%). LD 14,385
(27.64%). Lab 12,467 (23.95%). Green 1,334 (2.56%). UKIP 796 (1.53%). Others 646
(1.24%). Turnout 68.11%. 598 WARLEY +John Spellar (Lab) 20,240 52.89 Jasbir
Parmar (C) 9,484 24.78 Edward Keating (LD) 5,929 15.49 Nigel Harvey (UKIP) 2,617
6.84 Maj. 10,756 28.11 Lab hold. Electorate 63,106. Turnout 60.64% May 2005: Lab
19,232 (54.91%). C 8,026 (22.91%). LD 4,635 (13.23%). Others 2,398 (6.85%). UKIP
735 (2.10%). Turnout 57.23%. 599 WARRINGTON NORTH +Helen Jones (Lab) 20,135
45.54 Paul Campbell (C) 13,364 30.23 David Eccles (LD) 9,196 20.80 Albert Scott
(Ind) 1,516 3.43 Maj. 6,771 15.32 Lab hold. Electorate 71,601. Turnout 61.75%
May 2005: Lab 21,101 (52.89%). C 9,719 (24.36%). LD 7,449 (18.67%). UKIP 1,057
(2.65%). Others 573 (1.44%). Turnout 55.30%. 600 WARRINGTON SOUTH David Mowat
(C) 19,641 35.79 Nick Bent (Lab) 18,088 32.96 Jo Crotty (LD) 15,094 27.51 James
Ashington (UKIP) 1,624 2.96 Steph Davies (Green) 427 0.78 Maj. 1,553 2.83 C gain
from Lab. Electorate 80,506. Turnout 68.16% May 2005: Lab 19,503 (41.22%). C
15,166 (32.05%). LD 11,361 (24.01%). UKIP 833 (1.76%). Others 453 (0.96%).
Turnout 61.51%. 601 WARWICK & LEAMINGTON Chris White (C) 20,876 42.58 +James
Plaskitt (Lab) 17,363 35.41 Alan Beddow (LD) 8,977 18.31 Christopher Lenton (
UKIP) 926 1.89 Ian Davison (Green) 693 1.41 Jim Cullinane (Ind) 197 0.40 Maj.
3,513 7.16 C gain from Lab. Electorate 58,030. Turnout 84.49% May 2005: Lab
18,980 (44.70%). C 14,587 (34.35%). LD 6,739 (15.87%). Green 1,425 (3.36%). UKIP
731 (1.72%). Turnout 65.72%. 602 WARWICKSHIRE NORTH Dan Byles (C) 18,993 40.18
+Mike O'Brien (Lab) 18,939 40.07 Stephen Martin (LD) 5,481 11.60 Jason Holmes
(BNP) 2,106 4.46 Steven Fowler (UKIP) 1,335 2.82 David Lane (Eng Dem) 411 0.87
Maj. 54 0.11 C gain from Lab. Electorate 70,143. Turnout 67.38% May 2005: Lab
20,735 (47.37%). C 14,051 (32.10%). LD 5,923 (13.53%). Others 1,910 (4.36%).
UKIP 1,155 (2.64%). Turnout 62.88%. 603 WASHINGTON & SUNDERLAND WEST +Sharon
Hodgson (Lab) 19,615 52.54 Ian Cuthbert (C) 8,157 21.85 Peter Andras (LD) 6,382
17.09 Ian McDonald (BNP) 1,913 5.12 Linda Hudson (UKIP) 1,267 3.39 Maj. 11,458
30.69 Lab hold. Electorate 68,910. Turnout 54.18% May 2005: Lab 22,327 (68.79%).
LD 5,267 (16.23%). C 4,864 (14.99%). Turnout 47.41%. 604 WATFORD Richard
Harrington (C) 19,291 34.94 Sal Brinton (LD) 17,866 32.36 *Claire Ward (Lab)
14,750 26.72 Andrew Emerson (BNP) 1,217 2.20 Graham Eardley (UKIP) 1,199 2.17
Ian Brandon (Green) 885 1.60 Maj. 1,425 2.58 C gain from Lab. Electorate 80,798.
Turnout 68.33% May 2005: Lab 16,572 (33.56%). LD 15,421 (31.23%). C 14,631
(29.63%). Green 1,466 (2.97%). UKIP 1,292 (2.62%). Turnout 64.95%. 605 WAVENEY
Peter Aldous (C) 20,571 40.22 +Bob Blizzard (Lab) 19,802 38.72 Alan Dean (LD)
6,811 13.32 Jack Tyler (UKIP) 2,684 5.25 Graham Elliott (Green) 1,167 2.28 Louis
Barfe (Ind) 106 0.21 Maj. 769 1.50 C gain from Lab. Electorate 78,532. Turnout
65.12% May 2005: Lab 22,492 (45.36%). C 16,542 (33.36%). LD 7,495 (15.11%). UKIP
1,862 (3.75%). Green 1,198 (2.42%). Turnout 63.62%. 606 WEALDEN +Charles Hendry
(C) 31,090 56.56 Chris Bowers (LD) 13,911 25.31 Lorna Blackmore (Lab) 5,266 9.58
Dan Docker (UKIP) 3,319 6.04 David Jonas (Green) 1,383 2.52 Maj. 17,179 31.25 C
hold. Electorate 76,537. Turnout 71.82% May 2005: C 25,166 (50.41%). LD 12,354
(24.75%). Lab 8,334 (16.69%). Green 2,166 (4.34%). UKIP 1,901 (3.81%). Turnout
66.31%. 607 WEAVER VALE Graham Evans (C) 16,953 38.54 John Stockton (Lab) 15,962
36.29 Peter Hampson (LD) 8,196 18.63 Colin Marsh (BNP) 1,063 2.42 Paul Remfry (
UKIP) 1,018 2.31 Howard Thorp (Green) 338 0.77 Mike Cooksley (Ind) 270 0.61 Tom
Reynolds (Ind) 133 0.30 Will Charlton (Ind) 57 0.13 Maj. 991 2.25 C gain from
Lab. Electorate 66,538. Turnout 66.11% May 2005: Lab 17,196 (45.71%). C 11,919
(31.68%). LD 7,435 (19.76%). UKIP 1,072 (2.85%). Turnout 55.64%. 608
WELLINGBOROUGH +Peter Bone (C) 24,918 48.23 Jayne Buckland (Lab) 13,131 25.42
Kevin Barron (LD) 8,848 17.13 Adrian Haynes (UKIP) 1,636 3.17 Rob Walker (BNP)
1,596 3.09 Terry Spencer (Eng Dem) 530 1.03 Jonathan Hornett (Green) 480 0.93
Paul Crofts (TUSC) 249 0.48 Gary Donaldson (Ind) 240 0.46 Marcus Lavin (Ind) 33
0.06 Maj. 11,787 22.82 C hold. Electorate 76,857. Turnout 67.22% May 2005: C
20,860 (42.70%). Lab 20,250 (41.45%). LD 5,637 (11.54%). UKIP 1,125 (2.30%).
Others 983 (2.01%). Turnout 65.82%. 609 WELLS Tessa Munt (LD) 24,560 43.96
*David Heathcoat-Amory (C) 23,760 42.53 Andy Merryfield (Lab) 4,198 7.51 Jake
Baynes (UKIP) 1,711 3.06 Richard Boyce (BNP) 1,004 1.80 Chris Briton (Green) 631
1.13 Maj. 800 1.43 LD gain from C. Swing 3.59 C to LD. Electorate 79,432.
Turnout 70.33% May 2005: Heathcoat-Amory C 23,071 (43.56%). Munt LD 20,031
(37.82%). Whittle Lab 8,288 (15.65%). Reed UKIP 1,575 (2.97%). Turnout 68.04%.
610 WELWYN HATFIELD *Grant Shapps (C) 27,894 56.96 Mike Hobday (Lab) 10,471
21.38 Paul Zukowskyj (LD) 8,010 16.36 David Platt (UKIP) 1,643 3.35 Jill Weston
(Green) 796 1.63 Nigel Parker (Ind) 158 0.32 Maj. 17,423 35.58 C hold. Swing
11.14 Lab to C. Electorate 72,058. Turnout 67.96% May 2005: Shapps C 22,172
(49.58%). Johnson Lab 16,226 (36.29%). Bedford LD 6,318 (14.13%). Turnout
68.15%. 611 WENTWORTH & DEARNE +John Healey (Lab) 21,316 50.62 Michelle Donelan
(C) 7,396 17.57 Nick Love (LD) 6,787 16.12 John Wilkinson (UKIP) 3,418 8.12
George Baldwin (BNP) 3,189 7.57 Maj. 13,920 33.06 Lab hold. Electorate 72,586.
Turnout 58.01% May 2005: Lab 23,810 (61.79%). LD 6,259 (16.24%). C 5,301
(13.76%). Others 1,798 (4.67%). UKIP 1,365 (3.54%). Turnout 54.36%. 612 WEST
BROMWICH EAST +Tom Watson (Lab) 17,657 46.53 Alistair Thompson (C) 10,961 28.88
Ian Garrett (LD) 4,993 13.16 Terry Lewin (BNP) 2,205 5.81 Mark Cowles (Eng Dem)
1,150 3.03 Steve Grey (UKIP) 984 2.59 Maj. 6,696 17.64 Lab hold. Electorate
62,824. Turnout 60.41% May 2005: Lab 20,183 (55.75%). C 8,236 (22.75%). LD 4,464
(12.33%). Others 2,689 (7.43%). UKIP 628 (1.73%). Turnout 58.21%. 613 WEST
BROMWICH WEST +Adrian Bailey (Lab) 16,263 44.96 Andrew Hardie (C) 10,612 29.34
Sadie Smith (LD) 4,336 11.99 Russ Green (BNP) 3,394 9.38 Mac Ford (UKIP) 1,566
4.33 Maj. 5,651 15.62 Lab hold. Electorate 65,013. Turnout 55.64% May 2005: Lab
17,058 (53.67%). C 7,237 (22.77%). Others 3,456 (10.87%). LD 3,229 (10.16%).
UKIP 802 (2.52%). Turnout 51.63%. 614 WEST HAM +Lyn Brown (Lab) 29,422 62.67
Virginia Morris (C) 6,888 14.67 Martin Pierce (LD) 5,392 11.48 Stan Gain (CPA)
1,327 2.83 Kamran Malik (Ind) 1,245 2.65 Michael Davidson (NF) 1,089 2.32 Kim
Gandy (UKIP) 766 1.63 Jane Lithgow (Green) 645 1.37 Grace Agbogun-Toko (Ind) 177
0.38 Maj. 22,534 47.99 Lab hold. Electorate 85,313. Turnout 55.03% May 2005: Lab
19,989 (51.73%). Respect 7,715 (19.96%). C 4,659 (12.06%). LD 3,926 (10.16%).
Green 1,144 (2.96%). Others 802 (2.08%). UKIP 409 (1.06%). Turnout 44.87%. 615
WESTMINSTER NORTH +Karen Buck (Lab) 17,377 43.88 Joanne Cash (C) 15,251 38.51
Mark Blackburn (LD) 5,513 13.92 Tristan Smith (Green) 478 1.21 Stephen Curry
(BNP) 334 0.84 Jasna Badzak (UKIP) 315 0.80 Dr Ali Bahaijoub (Ind) 101 0.26
Edward Roseman (Eng Dem) 99 0.25 Gabriela Fajardo (Ch P) 98 0.25 Abby Dharamsey
(Ind) 32 0.08 Maj. 2,126 5.37 Lab hold. Electorate 66,739. Turnout 59.33% May
2005: Lab 12,823 (39.88%). C 10,703 (33.28%). LD 6,322 (19.66%). Green 1,523
(4.74%). Others 409 (1.27%). UKIP 376 (1.17%). Turnout 50.81%. 616 WESTMORLAND &
LONSDALE +Tim Farron (LD) 30,896 60.01 Gareth McKeever (C) 18,632 36.19 Jonathan
Todd (Lab) 1,158 2.25 John Mander (UKIP) 801 1.56 Maj. 12,264 23.82 LD hold.
Electorate 67,881. Turnout 75.85% May 2005: LD 21,829 (45.95%). C 21,023
(44.25%). Lab 3,712 (7.81%). UKIP 632 (1.33%). Others 309 (0.65%). Turnout
70.76%. 617 WESTON-SUPER-MARE +John Penrose (C) 23,356 44.31 Mike Bell (LD)
20,665 39.20 David Bradley (Lab) 5,772 10.95 Paul Spencer (UKIP) 1,406 2.67
Peryn Parsons (BNP) 1,098 2.08 John Peverelle (Eng Dem) 275 0.52 Steve Satch
(Ind) 144 0.27 Maj. 2,691 5.10 C hold. Electorate 78,487. Turnout 67.17% May
2005: C 19,760 (40.35%). LD 17,672 (36.08%). Lab 9,151 (18.68%). UKIP 1,204
(2.46%). Others 1,190 (2.43%). Turnout 65.68%. 618 WIGAN Lisa Nandy (Lab) 21,404
48.49 Michael Winstanley (C) 10,917 24.73 Mark Clayton (LD) 6,797 15.40 Alan
Freeman (UKIP) 2,516 5.70 Charles Mather (BNP) 2,506 5.68 Maj. 10,487 23.76 Lab
hold. Electorate 75,564. Turnout 58.41% May 2005: Lab 23,017 (58.13%). C 7,516
(18.98%). LD 6,699 (16.92%). UKIP 1,338 (3.38%). Others 1,026 (2.59%). Turnout
52.07%. 619 WILTSHIRE NORTH +James Gray (C) 25,114 51.57 Mike Evemy (LD) 17,631
36.20 Jason Hughes (Lab) 3,239 6.65 Charles Bennett (UKIP) 1,908 3.92 Phil
Chamberlain (Green) 599 1.23 Philip Allnatt (Ind) 208 0.43 Maj. 7,483 15.37 C
hold. Electorate 66,313. Turnout 73.44% May 2005: C 22,321 (49.72%). LD 15,433
(34.37%). Lab 5,365 (11.95%). UKIP 1,200 (2.67%). Others 578 (1.29%). Turnout
69.52%. 620 WILTSHIRE SOUTH WEST +Andrew Murrison (C) 25,321 51.66 Trevor Carbin
(LD) 14,954 30.51 Rebecca Rennison (Lab) 5,613 11.45

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

How Ukip cost Tories a clear majority;
MARGINALS

BYLINE: John Bingham ;Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 466 words


THE UK Independence Party's small but significant showing at the polls may have
cost David Cameron a majority in the Commons, voting figures suggest.

Although the Eurosceptic group suffered a dismal election night, failing to make
a breakthrough in mainstream politics, it may inadvertently have handed the
pro-European Liberal Democrats the chance of a role in government.

Analysis of results shows that in at least 21 key marginal seats, Ukip's share
of the vote was enough to allow Labour or the Lib Dems to see off strong Tory
challenges.

The extra victories would have been enough to hand David Cameron an outright
majority in the Commons.

Schools Secretary Ed Balls's Morley and Outwood constituency was among those
where the result might have been different.

Mr Balls survived with a majority of only 1,101 while Ukip polled 1,506 in the
contest.

Ruth Kelly's former seat of Bolton West and Glenda Jackson's Hampstead and
Kilburn seat in north London might have fallen to the Tories had it not been for
Ukip's presence.

Former Conservative voters who defected to the Eurosceptic party said that
disappointment over Mr Cameron's position on a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty
could have cost him a majority.

Despite its high hopes, Ukip did not pick up a single seat and managed just
three per cent of the overall vote, just over 900,000 ballots.

The party had considered it might hit at least five per cent and pass the one
million votes barrier following its success in last year's European Parliament
elections.

But a spokesman said it had achieved a "solid" performance, with a 50 per cent
increase in support since the 2005 election.

Ukip's key target had been to unseat John Bercow, the Speaker, but Nick Farage,
its former leader, could only muster third place.

The Speaker is, by tradition, unopposed by the main parties and Mr Bercow held
Buckingham with a majority of more than 12,000.

Mr Farage was still in hospital with minor injuries yesterday after being
injured when a light aircraft in which he was a passenger crashed in
Northamptonshire on Thursday.

The plane, towing an election banner, had been in the air for 15 minutes when it
nosedived and hit the ground.

It is thought the banner may have become tangled up in the tail fin. Police are
investigating.

Ukip fielded 560 candidates this time, but increased its vote from the 603,000
it won nationally in 2005.

A spokesman said: "We are realistic and did not expect to come from where we are
overnight in a first past the post system. Of course we are disappointed but an
increase of 50 per cent is not bad in anyone's book."

Mr Farage's agent, Dave Fowler said: "I assure Ukip voters and supporters that
although we have lost this battle, the war carries on."

21 the number of seats where Ukip's votes were enough to have allowed a Tory
win.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

From A-list to Zac, voters refused to follow the script

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 469 words


THIS was the election that will have the psephologists - those political anoraks
who watch the movement of votes - scratching their heads in bemusement.

Not that long ago, there was something called a uniform swing which meant it was
easy to see from early on election night who was going to win. Voters tended to
behave in the same way, especially in the marginals that determine the outcome
of the election. So, if there was a 6 per cent swing against Labour to the
Conservatives, that was generally replicated everywhere. So when the Tories won
Basildon in 1992 in one of the first counts of that poll, everyone knew they
would win the election.

But on Thursday night, it did not happen. In Scotland, there was a swing to
Labour largely because the SNP is in power north of the border. Some Labour
heartlands, like the North East, saw double digit swings to the Tories, largely
because the Labour vote collapsed. There was a lot of tactical voting and in
some seats the expenses scandal probably played a part - as with the ejection of
Jacqui Smith in Redditch and Ann Keen in Brentford. Local issues clearly matter.
One of the biggest swings, nearly 20 per cent, was in Redcar, where the
Government's failure to save the steelworks did for Vera Baird.

In London, the Tories failed to get a swing much above five per cent which left
key seats out of reach. Yet they still took Richmond from the Lib Dems, though
that might have owed much to the candidate, Zac Goldsmith. Other high-profile
Liberals, like Lembit Öpik and Evan Harris, lost seats as the Lib Dem surge
failed to happen. Yet one of the last seats to declare, Westmorland and
Lonsdale, showed a 20 per cent swing to the Lib Dems.

These differential swings meant results were often surprising. Tory targets like
Bolton North East remained in Labour hands and in others, such as Somerton and
Frome, the Ukip vote kept the Conservatives out. The socalled A-listers, chosen
to reflect the inclusive new Tory party, did not fare well.

Joanne Cash failed in Westminster. So, too, did Shaun Bailey in Hammersmith and
Philippa Stroud in Sutton, all seats the Tories would have won had the swing not
been so variable, especially in London. Oddly, the exit poll announced at 10pm
was nonetheless almost exactly on the money, giving the Tories 36 per cent of
the vote overall.

David Cameron's achievement was considerable. He faced the biggest uphill
struggle for the Tories at any election since the Second World War and needed a
swing of almost 7 per cent for an overall majority.

Even to get where he did, Mr Cameron gained more seats for the Tories than at
any election since 1931 and did so with just a handful in Scotland or Wales.

The biggest post-war swing was 10.3 per cent from Tories to Labour in 1997.
Since then, Labour has lost more than five million votes.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Disgraced MPs are driven out by angry voters;
THE EXPENSES FILES

BYLINE: Holly Watt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 963 words


MORE than 10 former MPs embroiled in the expenses scandal went down to defeat in
the election as voters showed their anger at the ballot box.

Jacqui Smith, the former Home Secretary, was the most high-profile casualty and
looked close to tears at the declaration in Redditch as she was defeated by the
Conservative Karen Lumley.

Last year, Miss Smith was ordered to apologise to Parliament after claiming
expenses on her family home in Redditch, while designating her sister's home in
London as her main residence.

She also submitted claims for adult films viewed by her husband, Richard Timney.

Labour's Phil Hope, who repaid £41,709 in taxpayerfunded expenses that he
claimed for furniture, fittings and other items for his London flat, was
dislodged by Louise Bagshawe, the new Conservative MP for Corby.

Ann Keen, a health minister who, with her husband, was nicknamed Mr and Mrs
Expenses, was thrown out when Brentford & Isleworth fell to the Tories.

Her husband, Alan Keen, survived in Feltham & Heston, despite criticism for
claiming thousands of pounds on a flat in Waterloo 10 miles from his main home.

In Harrow East, the Conservative candidate Bob Blackman defeated former minister
Tony McNulty.

Mr McNulty had admitted claiming expenses on a second home, occupied by his
parents, which was eight miles from his main property.

David Heathcoat-Amory lost his seat in Wells to the Liberal Democrats after 27
years as a Conservative MP.

He repaid £29,691.93 in expenses, which included more than 550 sacks of manure
for his garden.

Shahid Malik, the Communities Minister whose claims included £730 for a massage
chair and £2,600 for a home cinema system, was defeated by the Tories in
Dewsbury.

Despite Nick Clegg's repeated insistence that the Liberal Democrats had not been
affected by expenses claims, the party lost vital seats when several of their
candidates involved in the scandal were thrown out by voters.

Lembit Opik, who tried to claim £2,499 for a plasma television, lost his seat in
Montgomeryshire.

Mr Opik's claim was rejected because he bought the television while Parliament
was dissolved before the 2005 election.

Lib Dem Richard Younger-Ross, Sandra Gidley and Paul Holmes were dislodged after
John Lyon, the parliamentary standards commissioner, criticised them for taking
large windfall payments from the developers of the Dolphin Square flats in
Pimlico to give up their right to cheap rents.

Anthony Wright, who was defending the Great Yarmouth seat, and who was paid
£10,000 by the developers, lost to the Conservatives' Brandon Lewis.

Several other figures criticised for their expenses held their seats. Eric
Illsley, who faces a police inquiry over his council tax claims, held on for
Labour in Barnsley Central.

He claimed more than £10,000 over four years, although the council tax on his
London flat was £3,966 over the period. John Bercow, the Commons Speaker,
retained his large majority in Buckingham, after repaying £6,508 in capital
gains tax that he saved when he sold two properties in 2003.

The Conservative Eleanor Laing survived in Epping Forest despite repaying
£25,000 in capital gains tax after making £1million profit on a second home
subsidised by the taxpayer.

Hazel Blears, a former Cabinet minister, survived in Salford and Eccles, despite
enraging Labour activists when she walked out of the Government the day before
last year's local elections.

Miss Blears had claimed expenses on three properties in a year. Conservative
Anne Main held on in St Albans after surviving a deselection attempt by her
local party and being ordered to apologise to Parliament for letting her
daughter live rent-free at her taxpayer-funded home. Conservative Nadine
Dorries, who is under investigation by Mr Lyon, was re-elected in Mid
Bedfordshire.

Another Tory, Bill Cash, won at Stone after repaying £15,000 he claimed to rent
his daughter Laetitia's flat. During this period, Mr Cash owned a flat in
Pimlico, which was closer to Parliament than his daughter's property.

Alan Duncan, the shadow prisons minister, held onto the safe seat of Rutland and
Melton, despite claiming thousands of pounds for gardening costs.

Mr Duncan was removed from the Conservative front bench last year after he said
that MPs had been "forced to live on rations" and "treated like ****" since the
expenses scandal.

A record number of more than 140 MPs, including the Tory couple Andrew MacKay
and Julie Kirkbride, did not contest their seats, nor did Labour's Elliot
Morley, David Chaytor and Jim Devine, who are facing fraud trials over their
expenses.

Goners

Jacqui Smith gained notoriety after claiming cost of adult films viewed by her
husband.

Ann Keen one half of the couple nicknamed Mr and Mrs Expenses after claiming on
a flat in Waterloo 10 miles from her main home.

Tony McNulty pictured - made claims on a second home eight miles from his main
property which was occupied by his parents.

Shahid Malik tried to claim £730 for a massage chair and £2,600 for a home
cinema system.

David Heathcoat-Amory claimed for more than 550 sacks of manure for his garden
and ordered to repay £29,691.

Lembit Opik tried to claim £2,499 for a 42in plasma TV.

Survivors

Hazel Blears claimed expenses on three different properties in a year and repaid
more than £13,000 in capital gains tax.

Eleanor Laing pictured - ordered to repay £25,000 in capital gains tax after
making £1million profit on her taxpayersubsidised second home.

Nadine Dorries facing parliamentary inquiry into her expenses.

John Bercow second home "flipper" survived challenge from independent candidates
and Ukip, although the Speaker is usually re-elected without competition.

Eric Illsley facing a police inquiry for over-claiming on his council tax.

Anne Main allowed daughter to live rentfree in her taxpayerfunded second home.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Shahid Malik after losing his seat in Dewsbury
Jacqui Smith, the former home secretary, was visibly upset as she lost her
Redditch seat to the Conservatives' Karen Lumley
MATTHEW LEWIS/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip misses its vital targets;
EUROSCEPTICS

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 199 words


THE UK Independence Party had a miserable night as it once again failed to make
a mainstream breakthrough.

The eurosceptics did not pick up a single seat and managed just three per cent
of the vote - a little more than 900,000. The party had hoped to reach at least
five per cent and pass the million votes barrier.

Gawain Towler, a Ukip spokesman, insisted that, while not winning a seat was
disappointing, Ukip had achieved a 50 per cent increase in support since the
2005 election, when it collected 603,000 votes. He said: "We are realistic and
did not expect to come from where we are overnight."

The party's key target had been to unseat John Bercow, the House of Commons
Speaker, from his Buckingham seat, but Ukip's Nigel Farage could only muster
third place.

Mr Farage was still in hospital yesterday after the light aircraft in which he
was a passenger crashed on Thursday in Northamptonshire. The plane was towing an
election banner which is thought to have become tangled in the tail fin.

Mr Bercow remained in place with a majority of more than 12,000.

Mr Farage's agent, Dave Fowler, said on his behalf: "I assure Ukip supporters
that, although we have lost this battle, the war carries on."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Poll peaks The stories that stood out

SECTION: ELECTION 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 371 words


15April Maybe it's his fond memories of Rio but Lord Mandelson cannot resist a
dance when Tico-Tico music (Brazilian two-step) floods Blackpool Tower ballroom.

"Some people have it in them," says dance partner, Hannah Rita-Mackenzie.

15April Ash from the Icelandic volcano grounds flights across Europe, leaving
thousands of people desperately searching for a way to avoid the 24-hour
election coverage.

15April History is made when the three main party leaders take part in Britain's
first televised election debate. The set is borrowed from Going for Gold, but
it's a triumph for Nick Clegg, once viewers realise who he is.

16April Cleggmania sweeps the country. The Lib Dems shoot into second place in
the polls. Figures show that more than nine million people tuned in to watch the
debate, more than for Coronation Street. Mind you, 41 million adults didn't.

17April Nigel Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence Party, expresses
his love for sterling by paying his election deposit in 500 pound coins.

20April David Cameron tears the head off a giant chicken which has been stalking
him for several days. Chicken turns out to be Daily Mirror reporter wanting to
know about Lord Ashcroft - remember him? Press hounding of Clegg results in
Twitter hashtag nickcleggsfault in which everything from the Black Death to
Simon Cowell's trousers are blamed on the Lib Dem leader.

22April All eyes on Clegg for second debate, but main news of the day is that
Unilever, the makers of Marmite, have issued an injunction against the British
National Party after a jar of the love-it-or-hate-it spread is featured in a
party election broadcast.

23April Gordon Brown lets the country into a closely-guarded secret when he
admits that he lacks style.

24April "Go back to your constituencies and prepare for government moment" when
poll for The People newspaper puts Lib Dems joint first with the Conservatives.
Ipsos-Mori shows the Tories on 36, Labour on 30 and Lib Dems on 23. Bit of a
difference.

27April Philip Lardner, Conservative candidate for North Ayrshire and Arran, is
suspended for website entry describing gay people as "not normal". Turns out
that Mr Lardner once described Ian Smith, leader of racist Rhodesia, as a
"hero".

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How the big names fared;
In brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 505 words


Balls keeps his head after recount

Ed Balls clung on to his seat after a recount to deny the Conservatives victory
in their "decapitation strategy". The Children's Secretary, who is a potential
successor to Gordon Brown as Labour leader, held off the Tories in Morley and
Outwood, West Yorks, with a majority of 1,001. He had a majority of more than
10,000 in his previous seat of Normanton, which was taken into the new
constituency.

Bercow-and Farage-survive

John Bercow, the Speaker, fended off competition from Nigel Farage, the former
leader of Ukip, to retain his seat of Buckingham. Mr Farage was still in
hospital after his plane crash and could not attend the count. In accordance
with convention, the main parties did not field candidates.

Former home secretary beaten

Charles Clarke lost his Norwich South seat to the Liberal Democrats. Simon
Wright overturned the former home secretary's majority of 3,653 to take the seat
by 310 votes. Mr Clarke, who has repeatedly criticised Gordon Brown's
leadership, said he was "sad" but added that he accepted "the decision of the
people". He blamed the defeat on the fact that "we were not able to make our
case."

Defeated Rantzen may try again

Esther Rantzen, the television presenter and the most high-profile of a number
of independent candidates, was comprehensively beaten in Luton South, receiving
just 1,872 votes. She said she had not expected to win but would not rule out
standing again.

High turnout helps Goldsmith

Zac Goldsmith won Richmond Park in south-west London from the Liberal Democrats.
The millionaire environmental campaigner beat Susan Kramer, the former Lib Dem
transport spokesman, in a significant blow to Nick Clegg. Goldsmith had feared
losing as the campaign drew to a close but secured a seven per cent swing from
the Lib Dems on a remarkably high turnout of 77 per cent.

East End shows lack of Respect

George Galloway's Respect party was kicked out in east London. It was well
beaten by Labour's Rushanara Ali in Bethnal Green and Bow, the seat Mr Galloway
won in 2005. Mr Galloway this time stood in neighbouring Poplar & Limehouse,
where he finished third.

Jackson holds on, but only just

Glenda Jackson was another who won for Labour by the narrowest of margins,
beating her Conservative rival in Hampstead and Kilburn by just 42 votes. The
Liberal Democrat candidate was only a further 799 votes behind. Speaking about
her party's performance, the 73-year-old former transport minister said: "It's
clearly the case that we've taken more than a bit of a drubbing." She described
the vote as "disturbing".

Robinson loss hits Tory hopes

Peter Robinson, the beleaguered First Minister of Northern Ireland, lost the
Commons seat he had held for more than 30 years. The DUP leader, who has for
months been reeling from controversies over his personal affairs and those of
his wife, Iris, lost East Belfast to the Alliance Party.

Telegraph blogs

Telegraph.co.uk's star bloggers, including Norman Tebbit and Benedict Brogan,
analyse what a hung parliament will mean.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A million votes lost by Tories

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 68 words


UKIP had a tidy election night, chalking up a three per cent share of the vote
despite not having a chance of winning a seat. Nearly a million voters chose to
state their rejection of the EU rather than succumb to the temptation to back
David Cameron in order to be rid of Gordon Brown. Memo to Cameron: insulting
UKIP supporters by calling them "fruitcakes and closet racists" was not the
smartest of ideas.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

National: Election 2010: Results: fringe: Ukip: Anti-Europe party misses target
and fails Lord Tebbit

BYLINE: Alexandra Topping

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 411 words


The UK Independence party, which promised to shake up the general election by
commanding at least 5% of the vote, fell well short of its target and failed to
pick up a seat.

The party aimed to woo at least 1 million voters with its anti-European message,
but only polled just over 900,000, 3% of the vote.

But Ukip insisted that although it was disappointed at failing to win a seat it
had put in a "solid" performance, and had increased its number of votes by 50%
since the 2005 election.

Its main target was Buckingham, held by John Bercow, Speaker of the House of
Commons. But the party's candidate, former leader Nigel Farage, who was lucky to
be alive after the light aircraft in which he was travelling crashed in
Northamptonshire on Thursday, failed to make an impact and finished in third
place.

Before the election, Lord Tebbit gave his tacit support for Farage, arguing that
Bercow could not "describe himself as a Conservative any more" and suggested
that Tories would look for another alternative; but Bercow survived easily, with
a majority of more than 12,000.

Ludlow, another target for Ukip, was held by Conservative Philip Dunne with
52.8% of the vote, with Ukip coming in fourth place, polling 2,127 and only 4.4%
of the vote.

In Labour-held Barking, also targeted by the anti-Europe party, Ukip's Frank
Maloney only managed 1,300 votes, coming in fifth place with 2.9%.

But there was some cheer for the party in Boston and Skegness where it managed
to attract 4,081 votes, and 9.5% of votes polled, putting it into fourth place.

According to the party it performed well in some constituencies in the
south-west and east of England.

In Essex, Ukip's Jesse Pryke was up 0.6% on 2005 in Maldon, with 5.1% of the
vote and 2,446 votes in fourth place, ahead of the BNP's 1,464.

Simon Anselmi was also up 1.5% in Harwich and Essex North, beating the BNP with
2,527 votes and 5.2% of the vote, and in Braintree, Ukip's Michael Ford gained
2,477 votes and 5% of the vote, again, ahead of the BNP.

Ukip fielded 560 candidates and was anticipating a higher success rate in
keeping their deposits, which the party managed in only 47 seats five years ago.
The result was up on the 603,000 votes it won nationally in 2005 when it had
around 2% of the vote, Ukip said.

In Buckingham, Farage's election agent, Dave Fowler, said in a statement on
behalf of the former party leader: "I assure Ukip voters and supporters that
although we have lost this battle, the war carries on."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

National: Election 2010: Results: fringe: Tim Dowling: Farage finishes behind
Bercow and Flipper

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 568 words


On the campaign trail a few weeks ago I watched as Nigel Farage give a TV
interview in a Buckingham pub. He was saying he wanted to send an earthquake
through British politics. A Ukip member who had been looking on admiringly
turned toward me and said: "If he went under a bus tomorrow, we'd be buggered."

On election day Ukip got a glimpse of a future without its most famous
candidate. While counters sorted ballots in the Aylesbury Civic Centre, Farage
was in John Radcliffe hospital, recovering from injuries sustained in a plane
crash. He stood down as leader of Ukip last year in order to throw his hat in
the ring in Buckingham, defying convention by standing against the Speaker, John
Bercow.

With the result not being announced until the day after the election (Buckingham
and Aylesbury both use the Civic Centre; Aylesbury went first), this was, in the
circumstances, a count of no account. There was no Labour or Lib Dem candidate;
Bercow is no longer officially (or ideologically, his critics would say) a Tory.
And the most entertainingly outspoken runner, Farage, would not be present. The
scene at the count was a perfect picture of the brisk gentility by which
Britain's broken electoral system conducts itself. The count took place at 12
tables, in near silence. There were cardigans on the backs of most of the
chairs.

Ukip and a crowd of other independents - there were 11 candidates on the ballot
in all - had been seeking to capitalise on a tide of anger surging through
Buckingham. Voters were unhappy about being asked to return the Speaker to the
Commons unopposed, particularly in Princes Risborough, which had been moved into
the constituency. They said they felt disenfranchised. But they were also upset
about Bercow flipping his second home - a man dressed as a dolphin called
Flipper campaigned on behalf of independent candidate John Stevens. On the
doorstep voters seemed to be in a mood to protest, but they were largely
undecided as to how to proceed. They would have voted for the dolphin if they
could.

As the returning officer brought the candidates to the stage, the result was a
foregone conclusion. Bercow was defending a majority of over 18,000. The
constituency is overwhelmingly Tory. He was returned with a reduced but still
unassailable majority of 12,529. John Stevens and Flipper came second with
10,331 votes, ahead of Farage on 8,401. The BNP vote was outstripped by the
number of spoilt ballot papers: 1,067. "You should have seen some of the
comments on them," one observer said. But in the end the anger blew itself out.
There was to be no political earthquake, at least not here. The protest vote was
split, and eight of the 11 candidates lost their deposits.

In his speech Bercow, wearing a green and yellow rosette with his own face on
it, thanked his wife Sally, an approved Labour party candidate, for her vote,
and alluded to the disfranchisement issue and the large number of voters on the
doorstep who expressed "surprise, confusion . . ." "Disgust," added a woman
behind me. ". . . or plain discontent," said Bercow.

Farage's agent read out a polite, good-natured and conciliatory statement,
during which Bercow nodded approval with vigour. Farage was all the more missed.

The only exuberance came from Colin Dale, the Monster Raving Loony party
candidate, who received 856 votes. "I don't know about you lot," he said, "but
I'm having a whale of a time."

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

Letter: Constitutional safeguards will be needed

BYLINE: Dr Charles Dannreuther

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 143 words


In Brighton Pavilion, where I live, the Greens won 33% of the vote in which 97%
voted for Green, Conservative, Labour or Lib Dem. But nationally the BNP scored
twice as many votes as the Greens. If the BNP had co-ordinated its protest vote
in Barking by uniting with Ukip it would have only needed support from the
Monster Raving Loony party to challenge the Conservatives for second place.
Clegg et al assume those protesting against the establishment parties should
participate equally in the decision-making procedures of this country. Yet
Germany and other PR systems also enjoy constitutional safeguards protecting
their democracies from extremists, which have come in useful during turbulent
economic times. Without linking the two, electoral reform is dangerous. But
without reform, will there be a government?

Dr Charles Dannreuther

University of Leeds

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

If not Clameron or Clown, how about the Spanish option?

BYLINE: Tim Baleguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 653 words

ABSTRACT

Tim Bale: A national government ruling with support from regionalist parties
works for right and left parties in Spain

FULL TEXT

Most of the post-election graphics in the papers sliced up the pie between
Tories, Labour, Lib Dems, and "others". Understandable given the need for
clarity. But odd in the circumstances. Right now, those others - and how many
seats they command - could play a hugely important role in getting Britain a
government.

If "Clameron" (a Lib Dem-Tory deal, whether it be a full-blown coalition or a
confidence and supply arrangement) goes nowhere, then the next most obvious
option is "Clown" (a Lib-Lab deal). But that option is by no means simple.

For one thing, it might be a misnomer - surely the Lib Dems would demand the
incumbent PM step down, either immediately or after a set period (some sort of
"sunset clause") during which the deficit is tackled and a reform of the
electoral system is agreed.

For another, a Lib-Lab coalition can't command a majority in the House. It would
therefore need the support on confidence and supply of at least some of those
nebulous others.

The maths is interesting. Labour and the Lib-Dems control 315 seats, meaning
they need 11 more to give them the minimum they need to pass legislation. A deal
with one regionalist party the government is used to dealing with - the
Democratic Unionists - only gives them eight more.

Technically this might be feasible because Sinn Fein MPs will not take up their
seats. But such a deal would attract accusations that special favours would be
given to one "side" in Northern Ireland - not an image London would like to
project, particularly in Washington.

Tot up the total seats controlled by the nationalist parties in Scotland, Wales
and Northern Ireland and they total 12 - an overall majority of one. This sounds
good but SNP demands, notwithstanding  for electoral reform, may be more than
any government in London could stomach. And the presence of the SDLP would
presumably raise concerns in the unionist community.

Perhaps, then, if Plaid can be persuaded, the SNP could be dropped out and
replaced by the DUP, giving a Labour-Lib Dem minority coalition (with 315 seats
remember) a cushion of 14.

This, if you like, is the "Spanish option". The national government in Madrid
rules as a minority with the support of the regionalist parties in Spain's
autonomous communities.

The downside is a step-by-step drain of power from the centre to the regions -
one that might even end in complete independence for those regions that want it.
The upside is stable, durable government.

Interestingly, the system seems to work for Spain whether the centre-right or
the centre-left is in power. It's hard to see, however, the British
Conservatives - always resistant to devolution - in going for it.

Then again it's hard to see how they can run any kind of minority government.
Forget Spain, think Scandinavia or New Zealand. There minority government works,
too - and again it works for the centre-right as well as the centre-left. But
there is one pre-condition, namely that conservative minority governments are
able to rely for confidence and supply on a party to their right, normally of
the populist radical right variety - tough on immigration, hard-line on law and
order, and often none too keen on tax and spend.

For the Scandinavian option to work for the Tories, they'd really need, say, a
bunch of UKIP MPs to be in there with them. But they're not, so it can't. Unless
it could pull off a deal with the Lib Dems, a Conservative minority government
in the UK would have to operate essentially not (as in Scandinavia and New
Zealand) by relying on a party on its right flank or by turning right and then
left depending on the issue at hand, but instead by holding a gun to its head in
the face of a nationalist/centre-left majority. Not an attractive proposition.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

What Green victory?

BYLINE: Julian Bagginiguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 563 words

ABSTRACT

Julian Baggini: Caroline Lucas's win in Brighton does not signify a national
breakthrough. The Green's share of the vote went down

FULL TEXT

"The Green jinx has at last been lifted," , in response to Caroline Lucas's
election as the Green Party's first full MP. "The word historic fits the bill,"
said the elated woman herself. But amid the flying organic English perry corks,
I'm afraid someone has to poop the party. If you find this result exciting, then
you should find the performance of UKIP and the BNP even more frightening.

The stark facts are these. Nationally, the Green Party's share of the vote
actually went down 0.1% to 1%. In terms of vote share, the BNP (1.9%) and UKIP
(3.1%) both did better than the Greens. Nearly twice as many voted BNP as did
Green, while three times more people backed UKIP. The BNP almost tripled its
support compared to 2005, while UKIP received around half as many votes again as
last time.

Victory in Brighton may have been intoxicating for a while, but in the cold
light of day, the reflective equivalent of a triple espresso is sorely needed.
First to sober up should be George Monbiot. "If the Greens, despite all the
odds, can take a seat in a first-past-the-post election," he wrote, "think of
what they'll be able to do if, as now seems possible, we get proportional
representation." Less than UKIP and the BNP, it seems. If the thought of what
electoral reform could do for Greens makes you salivate, then the thought of
what it could do for the far-right should make you soil your pants.

Next in line for some much-needed caffeination is Caroline Lucas. "All the
evidence shows that once Greens have their foot in the door they are here to
stay," she said. But what look like the tides of history could very well turn
out to be the tides of politics, which ebb and flow much more rapidly.  is
perhaps the instructive example here. They got their foot in the door with
George Galloway in 2005, and now they're outside of Westminster again. Like the
Greens they had significant but thin support nationally, but one seat where
everything lined up for them.  looks like it could be as much of a one-off as
Bethnal Green and Bow.

Finally, the philosopher and Green Party European candidate  also needs to sober
up. "A century ago, the Labour Party won its first seats in Westminster. Just a
generation later, it formed its first government"  at openDemocracy. "Now, we'll
be similarly unstoppable."

But in 1910 Labour won 6.3% of the vote and got 42 seats. To compare Caroline
Lucas's victory shows that even philosophers can be better at wishful thinking
than the critical variety.

None of what I said is anti-Green. These are simple truths that even the most
fervent supporters of the party must see clearly, if they are to build on what
is indeed a historic opportunity to move the party up to the next level. What
must be realised is that the election result itself is, on balance, at least as
dispiriting than it is heartening, especially when you look at the far-right's
showing. There is no unstoppable momentum or inevitability to the Green Party's
rise. To take advantage of what is without doubt a great victory in Brighton,
Caroline Lucas needs to see things how they really are, not as they looked
bathed in the light of Friday's Green dawn on the South Coast.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

TWELVE HOURS THAT LEFT THE NATION DAZED AND CONFUSED;
For those following the results as they were declared, it was as draining a
night as it was for the politicians. Paul Vallely reports

BYLINE: Paul Vallely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2523 words


Oh what a night. It should perhaps have been clear from the outset that the 12
hours which followed the closure of the polls would be full of odd little ups
and downs, and twists and turns, as had been the campaign which preceded the
long journey into night and beyond.

22.00 Two signals intertwined from the moment the polls closed. There was the
first of a string of reports of hundreds of voters being disenfranchised by
chaos in under-staffed and under-equipped polling stations. Officials had
slammed the doors shut at 10 o'clock regardless of how many people were queuing
outside, many of them having stood in line for an hour or more.

At the same time, the television channels published the result exit polls for
which 17,000 voters had been interviewed after they had voted. The result
predicted the Conservatives would get 307 seats, Labour 255, the Liberal
Democrats 59 and others 29. That would mean a hung parliament with the Tories 19
seats short and no single party able to command a majority. Across the nation,
politicians began to do back-of-the-envelope calculations about the deals that
would need to be made.

22.08 The first to go public with his views was the Home Secretary Alan Johnson.
"The Tories seem to have done very well. Our vote has held up," he said, no
doubt relieved that Labour had not been relegated to third place as some had
earlier predicted. But for the Liberal Democrats "it sounds like the air has
gone out of their tyre", he concluded. How accurate would that instant verdict
prove? The night that followed was long and tortuous and full of false starts
and surprises.

22:1 The tone was set by an early exchange between Labour's deputy leader,
Harriet Harman, and the Conservative education spokesman, Michael Gove. "The
country hasn't turned overwhelming towards the Conservatives," Ms Harman said.
But this was a difficult time and "the country needs a strong and stable
government". Moreover "it's clear we need to change the voting system", she
added, sending out Labour's first signals of the evening to the Liberal
Democrats about the outline of the deal Labour would offer in an attempt to stay
in power.

No, said Mr Gove, the country had signalled "a comprehensive rejection of Gordon
Brown and a vote for change". The Tories had benefited from the biggest swing to
them in more than 80 years and they would do all they could "to provide a stable
and responsible government". The battlelines were drawn in the debate over who
would have the right to govern in the event of a hung parliament.

As sixth-formers sprinted with ballot boxes into the count in Sunderland, which
was striving to be the first constituency to declare a result, Peter Mandeslon,
Labour's election eminence grise, was sending out even more overt signals. Asked
by Jeremy Paxman on BBC One how he'd feel about Labour doing a deal with the
Liberal Democrats he replied: "I have no problem in principle". In a hung
parliament the British constitution allowed the sitting party to have the first
crack at forming a government, he said smoothly. For the Tories, Theresa May
proclaimed that the voters had issued a clear repudiation of Gordon Brown. "It's
rather more nuanced than that," Lord Mandelson replied. But was it?

22:26 For a start many people did not believe what the poll was saying. Exit
polls had been accurate at the last election, the Liberal Democrat, Simon
Hughes, told Sky TV, but wildly out the time before. The exit poll result was
"very strange", said the Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman Vince Cable. It did
not take into account postal votes, insisted the party's former leader, Paddy
Ashdown. Even the ex-Labour leader Neil Kinnock pronounced that the Liberal
Democrat figure was "almost certainly wrong". The editor of the ConservativeHome
blog, Tim Montgomerie, said that he expected both the Tories and Liberal
Democrats to get more seats than the poll predicted. Only Lord Mandelson was
more reserved, predicting that the night would be a "cliff-hanger".

22:52 The first result, thanks to the sprinting sixth-formers, was from Houghton
and Sunderland South. The first MP of the new parliament was Bridget Phillipson,
aged just 26, who held the seat for Labour. But the swing to the Tories - 8.4
per cent - was bigger than expected, and than the poll predicted. A national
swing of that order would give the Conservatives an outright majority.

That idea was reinforced with the next seat, also in Sunderland, which showed an
11.6 per cent swing, double that of Margaret Thatcher in 1979.

Tory spin doctors began texting and tweeting briefing notes saying Labour had
lost this election and that the result was historic - the most seats and biggest
swing for the Tories since 1931. It was a basis for government. In the money
market, gamblers began placing bets on the exit poll having overstated Labour.
But then came the third Sunderland seat, and a swing of only 4.8 per cent even
though the Tories had expected to do best there.

The evening's pattern of "no pattern" had begun to be set, though one consistent
factor was that smaller parties - and the Liberal Democrats - were not getting
the breakthroughs that pundits, punters and pollsters had predicted. But perhaps
things would settle?

23:00 And yet that was certainly not happening in the polling stations. The full
extent of the chaos there was by now emerging with angry scenes inside and
outside those stations where local people had been prevented from voting by lack
of ballot papers, long queues and the prompt closure of the booths. Police were
called in several cities. In Sheffield, disenfranchised voters blockaded a
polling station to prevent the ballot boxes being taken to the count. Sky TV had
amateur footage of outraged voters berating polling officials.

23:46 Telling details began to emerge about smaller parties. The vote of the
British National Party had doubled in Washington and Sunderland West where it
had saved its deposit. In Northern Ireland the Ulster Unionists, on whom David
Cameron could be forced to rely, were doing badly.

23:57 The Foreign Secretary David Miliband joined in the public semaphore to the
Liberal Democrats as he arrived at the count in his South Shields constituency.
"If no party ends up with a majority, then no party has a right to a monopoly of
power," he repeated, which meant voters were instructing the parties to do
deals. There's then "an injunction from voters on parties to talk to each
other", he added. The veteran Conservative, Ken Clarke, countered that it would
be "a travesty" if Gordon Brown tried to hang on to power, but he conceded
urbanely that this election was the most complex in which he had ever taken
part.

00:49 As if in confirmation of that, the first big shock of the evening
followed. Northern Ireland's First Minister, Peter Robinson, was ousted by
voters against the run of success for his Democratic Unionist Party. Few were in
doubt that it was linked at disapproval by Presbyterian voters of the financial
and sexual scandals surrounding him and his wife.

01:03 Not long after came the next big surprise. The Conservatives took
Kingswood - their first gain - with a massive swing of 9.4 per cent. This was
only 135rd on their list of target seats. It seemed to presage an outright Tory
victory. The result, said Labour's Ed Miliband, was "obviously very
disappointing for us".

Others went further. The former Labour home secretary David Blunkett within
minutes confessed publicly that he expected a Tory majority. He was the first
senior Labour figure to say Gordon Brown had lost the election. "The big swings
bode extremely ill," he said, adding that it was not for him, but the Prime
Minister, to concede defeat. Labour needed to regroup and rethink.

And yet contrary signals continued. The Liberal Democrats held Torbay, in the
first indication of a possible setback for the Tories. Then Labour held the Tory
target seat of Rutherglen in Scotland, with the Liberal Democrats going from
second to third and the SNP showing a small improvement. "My big worry is that
the Tories are going to win very few seats in Scotland," twittered Tim
Montgomerie. "If we form a government in London that's going to be tricky".

01:09North of the border the Prime Minister did not seem to share that view.
Gordon Brown stood in public for the first time as he waited for his own result.
His face was drawn and his smile was thin. By his side his wife Sarah looked
stunned and nervous. Her smile did not shift the sadness in her eyes.

The Labour leader spoke about the house nearby where he grew up, the church
where his father preached and he learned about social justice and the town where
he learned what true friendship is. He delivered an apologia pro vita sua
listing the achievements of which he was most proud: "The minimum wage, the
child tax credit, the NHS renewed, more police officers, half a million children
out of poverty, two million more jobs than in 1997". It was elegiac and
valedictory in its tone. The outcome of the vote was not yet known but he would,
he said, do his duty. It was a speech shot through with ambiguity, but his eyes
spoke of defeat and disappointment.

01:07 The top Liberal Democrat target seat of Guildford had stayed Conservative.
Yet Labour held Tooting, which the Tories had felt an easy win. "The people have
spoken but we don't quite know what they have said," quipped Labour's Ed
Miliband. The former editor of The Sun, Kelvin McKenzie, was sure of one thing
the voters had done. "They have punctured the Liberal Democrat balloon," he
said. The public, which so recently had enthused that it agreed with Nick,
clearly did so no longer.

But the seats were still falling unpredictably. Labour held the key seat of
Gedling with almost no swing to the Tories who could also not take Telford. Yet
in Guildford analysis showed the Liberal Democrats had gone backwards not
forwards and they had failed to take Torbay. The Battersea and Tooting results
were declared from the same town hall in Wandsworth but pointed in opposite
directions. The SNP held Angus, a top Tory target seat.

02:15 Things were looking good for the Tories, but not consistently good enough
for an overall majority. Then came the first recount of the evening, in
Broxtowe. (Eventually it went Tory.) But what was predictable was the
unpredictable performance of the Liberal Democrats. A massive shock came for
them when Lembit Opik's seat went to the Tories with a whopping 13.2 per cent
swing. The dour electorate of Montgomeryshire, where folk are "very chapel", did
not seem to approve of his Cheeky Girls antics. It seemed to be evidence, as
with Peter Robinson, and a series of Labour defeats which shortly followed, that
voters were determined to punish sitting MPs for personal conduct of which they
disapproved.

02:41 Super-posh Tory Annunziata Rees-Mogg, who refused spin doctors' advice to
tone down her name to Nancy Mogg, was given the thumbs-down in Somerton and
Frome. A devastated-looking former home secretary Jacqui Smith, who claimed for
two porn films bought by her husband on expenses, was ousted in Redditch. And
the curmudgeonly sniper Charles Clarke lost his seat in Norwich South.

03:05 But the seat of David Cameron was never in doubt. He knocked up 33,973
votes, the biggest so far, at Witney. In a subdued speech he did not claim
victory for his party, though he pronounced a resounding defeat for Gordon
Brown. "It's already clear that the Labour government has lost its mandate to
govern this country," he said. "It's clear the country wants change and that
change is going to require new leadership." There were still too many seats to
declare. There was a curious lack of drama about the proceedings. It was a night
of waiting in which feelings on all sides oscillated between hope and
apprehension.

03:40 Gordon Brown, so down at his count, perked up on the flight back to
London. His spinners briefed the press that his "do my duty" speech was not the
prelude to farewell but an indication of his readiness to do deals in the event
of a hung parliament. There was, he was convinced, still everything to play for.
Labour and the Liberal Democrats might yet have enough seats combined to be able
to outvote the Tories and their Unionist allies. And there were yet developments
in Labour's favour. As the plane sat on the runway in Edinburgh news came that,
despite his "bigoted woman" gaffe, Labour had secured victory in Rochdale. There
was more bad news for the Liberal Democrats; their combative MP Dr Evan Harris
lost Oxford West. Not long after, Mr Brown's closet ally, the schools secretary
Ed Balls, avoided a much-predicted "Portillo moment" by fighting off the BNP in
Morley and Outwood.

04:32 The main bookmakers were now offering odds of 11-2 on no overall majority.
Half an hour later the Conservatives had 310 seats - the same number as Labour
and the Liberal Democrats combined. Nothing was settled. Half an hour more and
the editor of the ConservativeHome blog, was saying he "no longer believes a
Tory majority is possible".

05:52 Though the Green Party's Caroline Lucas won Brighton Pavilion, becoming
the party's first Westminster MP, elsewhere the Greens were only averaging about
1.5 per cent of the vote. But the green Tory Zac Goldsmith took Richmond Park
from the Liberal Democrats on a huge 77 per cent turnout. And though both the
BNP and UKIP were doing better than the Greens, Labour's Margaret Hodge held
Barking with 24,628 votes - a hugely increased majority - smashing Nick Griffin,
leader of the British National Party, into third with 6,620.

06:06 A different kind of nationalism was troubling the Conservatives. The BBC
now predicted the final vote in England would have the Conservatives on 299,
Labour on 194, Liberal Democrats on 39 and others on 1. That would give David
Cameron a clear overall majority in England, but he would be denied that elusive
UK-wide majority because of his party's terrible showing in Wales and Scotland.
The Tory party chairman Eric Pickles went on television looking very glum to
insist that Labour had got a worse vote even than in the time of Michael Foot.
He was clearly immensely irritated by Harriet Harman's serenely pronouncing that
it was Gordon Brown's "constitutional duty" to try to form a government despite
the sweeping Conservative gains.

07:48 It all seemed to be going Labour's way. On Sky News the Liberal Democrat
energy spokesman Simon Hughes was saying the "ball is in Gordon Brown's court".
Not long after, Lord Mandelson was lubriciously insinuating that a Lib-Lab deal
could have many permutations, one of which might not involve Mr Brown at all.

08:25Mr Brown was back in Downing Street, having ignored questions about whether
he might be resigning. He was asleep by the time it was announced that Labour's
Glenda Jackson had held Hampstead and Kilburn with a majority of just 42 votes.

10:44 He was perhaps still asleep when Nick Clegg got off the train from
Sheffield and announced that he intended to stick to his view that the party
with most votes and seats - the Conservatives - should seek to form a
government. The game had changed decisively yet again.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                  May 8, 2010
                                 First Edition

Despite all the excitement, one in three voters decided to stay at home;
In varying degrees, all three main parties faltered in this election. And a
third of the electorate delivered the message that they were not worth bothering
with at all Analysis

BYLINE: John Curtice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 893 words


In the end Mr Cameron just could not pull ahead sufficiently to get past the 326
mark. Indeed with no more than 307 seats - assuming the party wins the delayed
contest in Thirsk and Malton on 27 May - Mr Cameron did not even do well enough
to ensure he had an impeded path to the door of 10 Downing St.

At just over 5 per cent the overall swing from Labour to the Conservatives was
well below the 6.9 per cent figure that it had been anticipated the
Conservatives would need to secure an overall majority. Meanwhile, hopes the
party would be able to make up the difference by doing better in Labour held
marginals largely proved unfounded.

The average swing in seats where Labour were defending a majority of 20 per cent
or less was, at 5.6 per cent, only slightly above that across the UK as a whole.
For all the controversy that Lord Ashcroft's funding of the Tory effort in
marginal seats has caused, in the event it seems to have made very little
difference at all.

Mr Cameron's hopes were dashed primarily by results at opposite ends of the
country. In Scotland there was actually a small swing from the Conservatives to
Labour. As a result the Conservatives failed to make any gains north of the
border at all, leaving the party with just a single Scottish representative. The
23-point difference between the Tories' share of the vote in England and that in
Scotland is now at its largest ever.

At the same time the Tories stumbled in London, where the swing was only 2.5 per
cent. This seems to have been part of a wider pattern across the country whereby
constituencies with relatively high ethnic minority populations proved
relatively resistant to the Conservative appeal. A repeat of a pattern that was
also evident in the 2008 Mayoral election in London, it seems that Mr Cameron's
attempts to reach out to the country's non-white population, not least by
promoting ethnic minority candidates, have fallen on deaf ears.

Meanwhile, as the Tories probably feared, capturing Liberal Democrat seats
proved a tall order. On average there was actually a small swing to the Liberal
Democrats in seats where the party was defending less than a 10 per cent
majority. However, some Local Democrat MPs, including most notably Lembit Opik
in Montgomery, still came unstuck. But these were compensated in part by some
unexpected gains too.

Even so, overall the Liberal Democrats' performance must have come as a deep
disappointment to the party. Although there were signs in the final week of the
campaign that the party's surge was gradually fading away, none of the final
polls had suggested the party had fallen all the way back to the 23 per cent it
secured in 2005. Yet in the event that this was almost what happened, while the
party actually won fewer seats than last time.

Doubtless this disappointment will be the subject of considerable anguished
enquiry by the Liberal Democrats. Questions will, of course, be asked of the
pollsters too. Yet this should not hide the fact that this election marked a
further decline in the hold of the two largest parties on the affections of the
electorate.

Altogether just two-thirds of those who voted on Thursday backed either Labour
or the Conservatives. This is the lowest proportion they have obtained jointly
at any election since 1918. For although the Liberal Democrats only did slightly
better than they did five years ago, support for a wide variety of other parties
(including nationalist parties in Scotland and Wales) increased by four points
to 12 per cent - the highest proportion since the passing of the First Reform
Act in 1832.

The most notable small party success was achieved by Caroline Lucas who has
become the country's first Green MP. Yet in truth hers was an isolated
achievement. On average the party won just 2 per cent of the vote in those seats
it contested, down over a point on average in those seats it also fought both
times. In contrast both UKIP and the BNP averaged a little under 4 per cent of
the vote, and in both cases saw their vote nudge up on last time by one and two
points respectively - though Nick Griffin was unable to make any advance for the
BNP in Barking.

But it was Labour that clearly took the biggest hit. With just under a 30 per
cent share of the vote the party managed to avoid the ignominy of winning fewer
seats than Michael Foot secured in 1983, but otherwise it was still its worst
performance since 1918. This was hardly the fate that was supposed to befall New
Labour after 13 years in power.

Hidden behind the headlines of the various party ups and downs was, however, a
warning to all parties. Even though the election was widely presented in the
media as one of the most exciting and unpredictable in loving memory, voters
were still reluctant to go the polls. At 65 per cent turnout was only up by four
points on the low figure of 61 per cent in 2005. This means that despite all the
media frenzy, turnout was still lower than it had been at any election between
1922 and 1997.

As the politicians scramble for advantage in the wake of the hung parliament
result those who opted to vote have delivered, they might remember that one in
three voters still did not think any of them were worth bothering with at all.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics, Strathclyde University

NEW POLITiCAL LANDSCAPE

8-9 The winners and losers in 649 constituencies across the land

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Protest votes speak volumes for Bercow;
SPEAKER

BYLINE: Tom Peck

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 226 words


Although ukip's Nigel Farage remained in hospital after the light-aircraft crash
that almost killed him on polling day, scenes at the Buckingham count, where he
stood for Parliament, remained decidedly colourful.

The incumbent, John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, temporarily shook off the
allusions to giant dolphin "Flipper" that had dogged him throughout the campaign
in an attempt to highlight his administrative dexterity when it came to
second-home delegation.

In the event, Mr Bercow's 22,860 votes comfortably saw off Mr Farage, who
finished third with 8,410. Second place went to John Stevens, of The
Buckinghamshire Campaign for Democracy, standing in protest at Mr Bercow's
expenses claims and the convention that the other major parties offer no
candidate to contest the Speaker's seat.

In his acceptance speech, Mr Bercow acknowledged the anger of his constituents,
made plain by the high number of spoilt ballot papers, and pledged to report
their concerns to the Commons, but refused to be drawn on how his role might be
affected by a hung parliament.

He paid tribute to his "not exactly identikit political wife" Sally, who lost
her bid to become a Labour councillor in Westminster's St James's ward.

A Ukip spokesman confirmed Mr Farage had recovered sufficiently from his chipped
spine, broken ribs and damaged sternum to ask for a gin and tonic.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

THE ACTION UNFOLDS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 557 words


6.40am Nick Clegg, looking deflated despite having comfortably held his seat in
Sheffield Hallam, acknowledged that the Liberal Democrats "simply didn't achieve
what we hoped".

7.00 Gordon Brown arrived back in Downing Street, ignoring questions shouted at
him by waiting journalists wanting to know whether he intended to resign.

9.46 Labour holds Erith and Thamesmead, in south-east London. This was the point
at which the Tories could not win a Commons majority and a hung parliament was
confirmed.

10.01 The Lib Dems privately indicated that Mr Clegg was holding to the line he
had taken throughout the campaign, that if one party secured the highest numbers
of votes and the highest number of MPs, that party had the right to be the first
to try to form a government.

10.26 Gordon Brown, still Prime Minister and not yet accepting defeat, announced
that he had asked the Cabinet Secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, to arrange for the
Civil Service to provide support on request to parties engaged in horse trading
to form a government.

10.40 Nick Clegg arrived at the Liberal Democrat headquarters in Cowley Street,
Westminster, and announced that it was up to the Tories to prove they are
"capable of seeking to govern in the national interest". It was, in effect, a
public invitation to David Cameron to ring him and make an offer. He also
insisted that there would have to be "real reforms" to fix "our broken electoral
system".

11.15 Conservatives sources indicated that David Cameron would have something to
say very soon, about forming a government that would be "strong and stable with
broad support, that acts in the national interest".

12.55pm Nick Clegg left Lib Dem headquarters and was driven to his home in
Putney, where he would be awaiting David Cameron's call.

1.40 Gordon Brown appeared on the steps of Downing Street to make what amounted
to a plea to the Lib Dems to save his Government. He said that the country needs
"strong, stable and principled government", and offered a referendum on creating
a fairer voting system. Meanwhile, one area of uncertainty was cleared. Though
no one knew who would be running the Government, they at least knew who would be
in charge in the Commons. The returning officer in Buckingham announced that the
Speaker, John Bercow, had held his seat, in Buckingham, against the former Ukip
leader Nigel Farage and other independents.

2.00 David Cameron held a conference call with members of his Shadow Cabinet to
tell them the offer he intended to make to the Lib Dems.

2.30 David Cameron delivered a statement in London's St Stephen's Club setting
out what he called a "big, open and comprehensive offer" to the Liberal
Democrats. It included promises to push some Lib Dem policies up the political
agenda and to set up an all-party committee into electoral reform.

3.45 Cameron and Clegg talked privately on the telephone.

4.34 An announcement that the Conservatives had held Torridge and West Devon
meant the counting was finally over, except in Thirsk where it has had to be
delayed for three weeks because of the death of a Ukip candidate. Assuming the
Conservatives hold Thirsk, the Conservatives will have 307 seats, exactly the
number predicted in the first exit poll on Thursday night. It puts them 19 short
of the figure of 326, which would have assured them an outright majority in the
Commons.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

BLUE MURDER;
ELECTION 2010 THE BACKLASH

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1012 words


THE Conservatives were plunged into bitter infighting yesterday when David
Cameron failed to clinch election victory.

Billionaire backer Lord Ashcroft, who bankrolled the Tory campaign, surfaced to
say that the leader's decision to take part in TV debates cost the party a
majority.

Policy chief Oliver Letwin and Michael Gove have also come under fire for
championing the "Big Society" - branded as too vague and wishy-washy by many
MPs.

But most anger has been directed at marketing guru Steve Hilton, who persuaded
Mr Cameron to base his manifesto on the idea - and also came up with the
disastrous airbrushed billboard ads.

Lord Ashcroft, who has given more than pounds 4million since Mr Cameron took
charge, came out of the shadows just hours after the polls closed.

DEBATES

He told the BBC: "I think from the time the Conservatives were ahead we then had
the debates, which has turned everything topsy-turvy and what were natural
assumptions before those debates changed the whole of the playing field.

"This is the type of result we are now seeing as a consequence of the debates."

The Tories were 10 points ahead when the election was called a month ago.

And Lord Ashcroft said: "If you took a pure strategic hindsight view, then you'd
say you'd much prefer the Conservatives going into today 10 points ahead than
three or four points." The deputy party chairman has spent years pumping cash
into marginal seats in a bid to buy the keys to No10.

The peer was cut adrift by Mr Cameron after it emerged that he had gone back on
a pledge to move to Britain for tax purposes in return for a peerage.

But Lord Ashcroft, who has avoided paying an estimated pounds 127million, denied
the row over his "non-dom" status had cost Tories outright power.

Many others in the party also blame Mr Cameron's decision to agree to the TV
debates which gave the Lib Dems equal billing.

Nick Clegg's performance forced the Tories on to the defensive and stole the
message of "change" that was central to the Tory push for power.

And even Tory MPs who enthusiastically backed the "Big Society" - getting
charities and voluntary groups to take over the running of public services -
thought the idea was too wishy-washy for an election.

Right-wingers also wanted firmer promises on traditional Tory issues such as
immigration and crime.

Phillip Blond, Mr Cameron's policy guru, said they did not offer ordinary people
"another stake in the economy", like they did with share ownership and council
houses in the 80s. Steve Hilton was also criticised for the airbrushed
billboards that did his pal's image so much damage in January.

Some MPs on the right now want to see highly paid Mr Hilton, who worked from Los
Angeles for a spell, cast aside as a "blood sacrifice". Tory insider Peter
Bingle said that "heads need to roll" after a poor campaign.

Mr Bingle said: "Somebody needs to take the blame and resign or be fired. Tory
activists are angry and depressed!" Writing on internet site Twitter, the PR
chief added: "It is time for change in the party. We need some Tories directing
the next campaign so we win it."

And activists lined up on website Conservative Home to criticise the leaders and
suggest Mr Cameron should quit. Many said he had blundered by pandering to
liberal voters and handpicking "A-list" candidates. Others were furious that
Conservative Campaign HQ briefed journalists that they had won a working
majority before polls closed.

One said: "David Cameron is a disgrace and should quit now." One activist named
Shellshocked added: "Make way for a better leader David Cameron & George
Osborne. The sooner Boris Johnson is installed the better."

The failure to win a majority also meant an election night party fell flat.
Party bigwigs, media cheerleaders and donors - led by Lord Ashcroft - had booked
out Mayfair restaurant Scott's so 150 guests could watch the results roll in and
toast Cameron's arrival at No10.

But it turned into a wake as it became clear the Tory leader had failed to seal
the deal. Early arrivals included former leader Michael Howard, ex-British
Midland boss Sir Michael Bishop and Arcadia owner Sir Philip Green.

Other celebrities were TV fashion gurus Trinny Woodall and Susannah Constantine,
and Earl Spencer, the brother of Diana, Princess of Wales. Guests were served
champagne, oysters and caviar. They then sat for an pounds 83-a-head menu
including steamed white asparagus with Iberico de Bellota ham followed by fillet
of Bannockburn beef with creamed spinach and morel & Madeira sauce. There was
also a specially made Eton Mess made with blueberries to honour David Cameron -
but guests were left with a bitter taste, and as the last stragglers left in the
early hours, the mood was decidedly glum.

15,284 06.00am: Labour's Margaret Hodge holds Barking with 24,628 votes -
defeating the BNP's Nick Griffin on only 6,620 and finishing third.

06.35am: Nick Clegg keeps his Sheffield Hallam seat with increased majority of
15,284.

Says it's been a "disappointing night for the Lib Dems".

0 9. 4 2 a m : It is confirmed - the UK has ended up with a hung parliament.

10.44am: Clegg appears to rule out coalition with Labour. Says party with most
votes and seats should try to form a government.

10.54am: George Galloway loses new Poplar and Limehouse poll in East London.
Labour minister Jim Fitzpatrick wins.

01.17pm: Police say they are investigating how a 14-yearold boy managed to vote
in Wyre and Preston North.

01.59pm: Speaker John Bercow easily holds his Buckingham seat with majority of
12,529. His main challenger was UKIP's Nigel Farage, who was injured in a plane
crash on Thursday.

02.35pm: Cameron says increase in seats is bigger than Margaret Thatcher
achieved in 1979 but admits party "must accept" it failed to win a majority. He
makes a "big, open and comprehensive offer" to the Lib Dems to work together in
government.

649 04.41pm: Last of the 649 seats declares - Tory Geoffrey Cox holds Torridge
and West Devon. Only Thirsk and Malton to go - where election has been delayed
until May 27 following death of a candidate.

ROUTLEDGE & PARSONS: PAGES 6&7

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLUE Trinny & Susannah COSTLY Lord Ashcroft FAILURE AT POLLS David
Cameron arrives to make his speech in the aftermath yesterday RETURN PM Brown at
No 10 yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

OUT ON HIS BIG EARS;
ELECTION 2010 LOSERS AND WINNERS

BYLINE: JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 658 words


CHARLES Clarke was out on his ears last night as he headed the list of big names
ousted from Parliament.

The former Home Secretary - a fierce critic of Gordon Brown - lost Norwich South
to the Lib Dems by 310 votes.

Bitter to the end, Mr Clarke said in his acceptance speech: "I blame my loss on
the fact that we were not able to make our case."

But viewers were denied their "Portillo moment" when Schools Secretary Ed Balls
clung on to the new seat of Morley & Outwood with a majority of 1,101.

The Tories had run a high-profile campaign against Mr Balls, backed with cash
from billionaire donor Lord Ashcroft, but in the end they failed to match
Labour's scalp of Tory Michael Portillo in 1997.

Among the Labour ministers who did fall to the Tories were health minister Mike
O'Brien in Warwickshire North, disabled minister Jonathan Shaw in Chatham &
Aylesford, international development Mike Foster in Worcester, communities
minister Shahid Malik in Dewsbury and employment minister Jim Knight in Dorset
South.

The roll call of ousted ministers also include armed forces minister Bill
Rammell, who lost Harlow to the Conservatives, health minister Gillian Merron in
Lincoln, transport secretary Chris Mole in Ipswich and transport minister Paul
Clark who, lost the seat in Gillingham and Rainham.

Mr Malik was one of many MPs who may have fallen foul of a public backlash over
his expenses.

The scandal was also thought to be behind the defeat of Ann Keen in Brentford &
Isleworth and Phil Hope in Corby.

But there was some cheer for Labour yesterday as the popular Karen Buck held off
a challenge from "Cameron Cutie" Joanne Cash in Westminster North.

An emotional Ms Cash launched into an emotional tirade at the media after the
result of her 2,126 defeat was announced.

She accused the press of telling lies about her and her husband Octavius Black,
an Eton contemporary of David Cameron.

Ms Cash ranted: "I would first of all like to thank my husband Octavius who has
had many, many lies told about him in the press.

"This is a very strange night up and down the country, there are very strange
results everywhere.

"But the Westminster North media have played an incredibly powerful role, and we
have to face the question about what their role will be, going forward.

"Are they going to tell the truth or are they going to trash people, lie about
their families?" Her tirade was met with mock jeers and laughter from the rival
campaign teams gathered at the venue.

The heckling prompted the Oxford-educated barrister to snap: "I come from an
ordinary background, I was state school educated.

"So for the record, press, you are on notice. No more lies."

Other A-list Conservatives to stumble in the election included Shaun Bailey in
Hammersmith, the "black farmer" Wilfred Emmanual-Jones at Chippenham and
Annunziata Rees-Mogg in Somerset & Frome.

The UK also has its first Green Party MP after leader Caroline Lucas won the
seat of Brighton Pavilion with a majority of 1,252 over Labour's Nancy Platts.

Celebrating with her husband Richard Savage, jubilant Ms Lucas said: "Thank you
so much for putting the politics of hope above the politics of fear."

But other independent MPs fared less well. Former doctor Richard Taylor lost
Wyre Forest in Worcestershire to the Tories, while the independent Dai Davies
was ousted by Labour from Blaenau Gwent.

And UKIP's Nigel Farage, who was nearly killed polling day when a light plane he
was in crashed near a Northamptonshire airfield, fell well short of trying to
oust the Speaker John Bercow in Buckingham.

TV campaigner Esther Rantzen looked to have lost her deposit after her protest
vote against expenses-hit Margaret Moran in Luton South saw her limp home in a
dismal fourth place.

Lib Dems to fall included the frontbencher Evan Harris in Oxford West and
Abingdon and Julia Goldsworthy in Camborne & Redruth.

But the party's Sarah Teather beat Dawn Butler in the newly-created seat of
Brent Central in North London.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BITTER LOSER Defeated Charles Clarke last night TIRADE Tory Ms Cash
rants after losing out to Labour's Karen Buck in Westminster DELIGHT Caroline
celebrates becoming UK's first Green MP JUBILANT With husband JOY Ed Balls
smiles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

Britain - Message to Griffin: Get lost;
Voters humiliate BNP as hopes for first MP come crashing down

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin, Home Affairs Reporter

LENGTH: 357 words


The fascist BNP suffered a humiliating drubbing at the Westminster polls on
Thursday, failing to make a serious dent in any of its target constituencies.

In Barking Labour comfortably saw off BNP leader Nick Griffin's challenge
(pictured) after a concerted anti-BNP campaign by Hope not Hate, Unite Against
Fascism and others.

Labour MP Margaret Hodge held the seat with 24,628 votes, over 16,000 more than
any other candidate. The BNP came in third with 6,620 votes.

Ms Hodge used her victory speech to tell Griffin to "pack his bags" and get out.

She said voters had "overwhelmingly chosen to support a democratic politics,
built on tolerance, on fairness and on decency. Not a fascist politics built on
division, prejudice and hatred."

"The lesson from Barking to the BNP is clear: Get out and stay out, you're not
wanted here and your vile politics have no place in British democracy.

"Pack your bags and go," she said.

In neighbouring Dagenham and Rainham Labour MP Jon Cruddas secured 17,813 votes,
holding his seat and beating the BNP into third place.

Meanwhile in the fascist party's other key target seat of Stoke-on-Trent Central
BNP deputy leader Simon Darby, despite his confident predictions, failed to
trouble the three main parties. The seat was held by Labour with the BNP
trailing in in fourth place just ahead of the UK Independence party.

Across Yorkshire and Humber, where the BNP secured a victory in the European
elections, it also failed to make any significant impact on the polls.

Commenting on the failure of the BNP Westminster vote to materialise a spokesman
for Hope not Hate, which has campaigned extensively in Barking and Stoke, told
the Star: "The BNP got well and truly trounced in Stoke and in both Dagenham and
Barking. Their candidates in and around London have done very badly.

"We have fought a long campaign in these areas working in conjunction with
numerous groups and political parties. We have worked really hard to get the
message across.

"The levels of commitment from our volunteers has been absolutely fantastic. We
haven't been scared off by BNP threats but have stood our ground."

paddym@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday

Britain - Left candidates - Red days as socialists Gain;
Around 20 left Labour candidates secure Commons seats after a strong showing

BYLINE: Roger Bagley in Parliament

LENGTH: 385 words


Left Labour candidates chalked up some impressive results, ensuring a socialist
grouping of around 20 MPs in the new Parliament yesterday.

Labour Representation Committee chairman John McDonnell won a thumping majority
of 10,824 in Hayes and Harlington, scooping up 54.8 per cent of the vote.

He is a leading sponsor of the People's Agenda, urging a big fight against
spending cuts, public ownership of key industries including banks, taxing the
rich, repeal of anti-union laws and a massive council housebuilding programme.

Tireless activist Jeremy Corbyn increased his share of the poll by 3 per cent in
Islington North to secure 24,276 votes - a 12,401 majority over the Liberal
Democrats.

In Luton North, socialist economics expert Kelvin Hopkins also increased his
share of the poll. He won 21,192 votes, a 7,520 majority over the Tory
candidate.

Veteran campaigner Michael Meacher was returned in Oldham West & Royton with
19,503 votes, a majority of 9,352. The BNP came in fourth with 3,049 votes.

National Union of Mineworkers president Ian Lavery entered Parliament as the new
MP for the north-east constituency of Wansbeck.

And renowned miners' MP Dennis Skinner achieved a comfortable majority of 11,182
over the Conservatives in Bolsover.

However, Mr Skinner's share of the poll dropped by 15 per cent, with a
disturbing vote of 2,640 (6 per cent) for the racist BNP and 1,721 for Ukip (3.9
per cent).

In Newport West, indefatigable parliamentary terrier Paul Flynn was returned
with a majority of 3,544 over the Tories.

Leading Scottish leftwinger Katy Clark easily beat the SNP in Ayrshire North and
Arran, chalking up a majority of 9,895.

And former Morning Star journalist John Cryer was returned to Parliament with a
majority of 6,416 in Leyton and Wanstead.

Left MP David Drew narrowly lost his seat in the highly marginal constituency of
Stroud, while energetic backbencher Gordon Prentice lost to the Tories in Pendle
by a margin of 3,585.

Other left MPs returning to the Commons include Diane Abbott (Hackney North),
Ronnie Campbell (Blyth Valley), Martin Caton (Gower), Nia Griffith (Llanelli),
David Hamilton (Midlothian), David Heyes (Ashton-under-Lyne), Austin Mitchell
(Great Grimsby), Linda Riordan (Halifax) and Mike Wood (Batley and Spen).

rogerbagley@peoples-press.com

Labour left results: p10-11.

LOAD-DATE: May 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ELECTION 2010 WINNERS AND LOSERS IN EVERY CONSTITUENCY

SECTION: ELECTION 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 1 words

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DITCHED ... DUP's Peter Robinson lost in Belfast East
CRASHED ... UKIP's Nigel Farage lost out in Buckingham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Polls apart from nation;
myView

BYLINE: PETER KELLNER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 114 words


THE people have spoken, and none of the parties can take much comfort in what
they have said.

The message to Labour is: "We don't trust you any more. You are no longer fit to
govern alone." To the Tories it's: "We're not yet convinced you have put your
sleazy, divided past behind you."

And to the Liberal Democrats: "We enjoyed our mid-campaign fling with you but
Nick Clegg doesn't have the strength or experience for a lasting relationship."

UKIP was told "you are irrelevant"; the BNP "push off"; the Greens "get real";
and Scottish Nationalists "you're past it".

Had there been a "none of the above" party, it could have won by a landslide.
Another election looks likely before long.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Pilot: I'm in agony

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 137 words


THE pilot of the plane which crashed carrying ex-UKIP chief Nigel Farage during
a polling day stunt said last night: "I hurt all over."

Justin Adams, 45 - in hospital with severe friction burns to his right arm and
other injuries - also admitted: "I'm lucky to be alive."

His sister Helen Authers said: "He told me how at the height of the drama he had
requested an emergency landing in a ploughed field, to soften the impact. But
the plane suddenly flipped and landed on its cockpit."

Dad-of-two Mr Adams, of Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, and Mr Farage were trapped in
the cockpit after crashing at 70mph at a private airfield near Brackley,
Northants.

The Polish Wilga plane nosedived after a 15ft "Vote UKIP" banner it was towing
wrapped round the tail fin.

Mr Farage, 46, suffered broken ribs and damage to his spine and breastbone.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Greens' first seat

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 133 words


GREEN party activists celebrated getting their first MP - with fairtrade
champagne and a veggie fry-up.

Leader Caroline Lucas, 50, won Brighton Pavilion constituency after nearly 30
years in the wilderness for the party.

The mum of two declared: "Once you get the first person to break through then
more will follow."

She took the seat from Labour with 16,238 votes to Labour's 14,986.

The UK had been the only major European country without a Green MP - despite
them fielding 335 candidates.

Policies include a tax on bankers' bonuses, speed limits of 20mph in towns and
55mph on motorways.

THE pilot of the plane which crashed carrying ex-UKIP chief Nigel Farage said:
"I hurt all over." Justin Adams, 45, of Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, has severe
friction burns to his arm. He said: "I'm lucky to be alive."

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

ROMPUY BUMPY FOR NIG

BYLINE: Donald MacLeod

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 120 words


LIKEABLE UKIP balloon Nigel Farage almost came a cropper when his light aircraft
crashed on election day.

Rumours that rival candidate John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, was behind it are
entirely groundless.

Even though he does scarily resemble Lord Farquaad - the little bad guy from
Shrek.

Methinks Euro President Herman Van Rompuy, who Farage recently likened to a damp
rag, may be behind it.

After all, Van Rompuy does remind me of the Nazi dentist in Marathon Man.

And you should always beware the quiet ones!

A POLL has revealed that "The Perfect Street" would include neighbours such as
The Queen, David Cameron and Cheryl Cole.

Sounds more like Purgatory Place to me.

Who on earth are they polling? Psychiatric patients?

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOWN ... UKIP's Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 8, 2010 Saturday 1:40 PM GMT

UK Election live blog

BYLINE: By Will Heaven

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 13747 words


This live blog has been migrated. Find today'sUK Election live blog here.

7.04pm Daniel Hannan writes that an entente with the Lib Dems is not impossible.
It's one of today's must-reads:

Is it possible to reach an accommodation with the Lib Dems based on fiscal
tightening? I think so. The two parties are divided over timing, not principle.
On the campaign trail, Nick Clegg claimed that deferring the cuts was a
whizz-bang piece of Keynesian pump-priming. But he is privately aware that
postponement will make the cuts more painful when they come - as the Greeks are
now discovering. With polling day out of the way, Cleggie no longer has any
reason to deny the truth.

7.03pm Neil O'Brien, the director of policy exchange, asks on his Telegraph
blog: "Do the Liberal Democrats and Tories agree enough on policy for a 'change
coalition'?" He concludes:

...a change coalition (either a full coalition or a minority government) would
see some treasured ideas dumped on both sides. But much could be done even
without any legislation. And there are a huge number of areas where the
Conservatives and Lib Dems can find agreement to legislate. To their surprise,
many Tories may find that - now that the heat of the election is over - they too
"agree with Nick" (at least, sometimes). Who'd ever have thought it?

7.00pm Harry Mount writes that the Green People's Republic of Brighton has
elected its President: "You'll remember the People's Republic of Santa Monica
and its sister state, the People's Republic of Islington. Well, there's a new
independent country and it's the Green Republic of Brighton."

6.02pm (WH) So, the final election results are as follows:


     ·    Conservatives: 307 seats (+97)
     ·    Labour: 258 seats (-91)
     ·    Liberal Democrats: 57 seats (-5)
     ·    Scottish National Party: 6 seats (no change)
     ·    Democratic Unionists: 8 seats (- 1)
     ·    Sinn Fein: 5 seats (no change)
     ·    Plaid Cymru: 3 seats (no change)
     ·    Social Democratic and Labour Party (SDLP): 3 seats (no change)
     ·    Green Party: 1 seats (+ 1)
     ·    Alliance: 1 seat (+ 1)
     ·    Others: 1 seat (Lady Sylvia Herman)


5.07pm David Cameron and Nick Clegg have spoken by phone, the BBC reports. They
have agreed on one thing: that they will speak again later.

4.57pm                     Damian Thompson has been speaking to an influential
Tory source, who tells him:

Dave knows exactly where the Liberal Democrat fault lines lie. On cutting the
deficit, Right-wing Lib Dems will support him and Left-wing ones won't.
Crucially, the former are over-represented among MPs compared to the membership.
On PR, some Lib Dems (by and large the ones who agree with Cameron about budget
cuts sooner rather than later) are willing to accept the Tory fig leaf, whatever
shape it takes. It's a mistake to think that all Lib Dem MPs are obsessed with
"voting reform"; some just pretend to be...

4.33pm Edmund Conway, the Telegraph's economics editor, says "Cameron and Clegg
have 48 hours to forge a deal on the deficit."He argues on his blog:

Fail to come up with this; give the impression of deadlock, and given today's
market reaction I would be rather worried. And we're not talking here about the
kind of sterling fall that can be described as a benign devaluation, such as we
have had over the past two years, but a full blown 1970s-style fall, one which
betrays the fact that investors have completely lost confidence in the ability
of the Government (or whatever passes for it) to address the biggest deficit in
modern history.

4.18pm With characteristic vigour, Gerald Warner argues on his blog that David
Cameron's campaign was a disaster for the Conservative Party. He writes on his
blog: "Any competent leader at the head of a bog-standard, identifiably Tory,
real-world Conservative Party would be ensconced in Number 10 today with an
overall majority of around 100."

4.13pm Read David Cameron's statement in full.

4.05pm Byrony Gordon says there is only one clear winner of this election: David
Dimbleby.

3.32pm (WH) Update on that phantom Nick Clegg statement from the BBC's Laura
Kuenssberg: "Lib source-Cam statement is 'significant step-likely to be proper
response later but Clegg has to meet MP s tmrw so unlikely to be any d ..." -
looks like she's battling with the constraints of Twitter, but you get the
picture.

3.24pm David Hughes believes that Cameron's speech was "the real deal" and that
Gordon Brown should "clear his desk". On his blog, he writes:

...Then came Cameron, and this was the real deal. He opened by reminding us that
we are at war in Afghanistan - that seemed to have slipped Brown's and Clegg's
minds -before offering his party faithful some pretty solid guarantees of where
his negotiating position starts and ends. It was astonishingly detailed, which
suggests that there has already been some pretty intensive talking done between
the two parties. By the time he'd finished, there was a real sense that what he
was talking about was almost a government of national unity. Given that we are
in  a deep national crisis, that's no bad thing.  The big question now is can
Cameron and Clegg sell this to their respective parties?

3.23pm Robert Colvile argues that this is a good day for the Tories:

I'm as disappointed as anyone on the Right that the Conservatives have fallen
short of an overall majority, and certainly Cameron and his team have made some
mistakes over the past few years. There's also something to the idea that they
need to change their management style, and win over the alienated backbenchers
on whom they'll rely. But the I-told-you-sos that are already emerging - Hi,
James! -  are a little extreme...

3.22pm Guido Fawkes (aka Paul Staines), who has long backed a Tory/Lib-Dem
alliance, argues on his blog:

Now is an historic opportunity to reform politics for the better, to open up
politics and government, to roll back an authoritarian state.  If the Tory right
is too small minded to allow Cameron to do a deal with Clegg then they are as
stupid as they are short-sighted.  This is an historic opportunity to realign
politics along a liberal-conservative axis.  It is the chance to destroy the
Labour Party as a party of government forever. If the price is real reform of
the electoral system than that is a price well worth paying to free us from the
economic destruction wrought time and time again, decade after decade, by a
statist, big government Labour Party.  Fraser Nelson, the editor of the
Spectator, says he will fight Cameron.

Don't do it my friend, at least see what deal is on the table, this is the
chance to achieve Margaret Thatcher's ultimate ambition of two competing
non-socialist parties of government.

3.20pm Toby Young blogs on a potential pact between the Tories and Liberal
Democrats. He notes Cameron's omission on Tory education policy:

Rather frustratingly, the Conservative leader didn't include "free schools" in
the list of policies he wouldn't compromise on or that the two parties are
aligned on. But I suspect the Tories will want to move forward on this front and
I think it's doubtful the Lib Dems will demand any concessions on education
policy. If Michael Gove is the Secretary of State at the DCSF on Monday I think
it's safe to assume it will be full speed ahead.

3.15pm Meanwhile, the remaining seats are being declared. The Tories lose St
Ives to the Lib Dems by 1719 votes. And again, the UKIP result for that
constituency easily covers the vote gap: their candidate Mick Faulkner received
2,560 votes.

3.10pm (WH) A significant poll from ComRes doing the rounds on Twitter: 81 per
cent think that the leader of the party with the most votes should be Prime
Minister.

3.02pm (WH) Two Telegraph bloggers live the BBC with Andrew Neil and Alastair
Campbell. James Delingpole - who says Britain will soon be carpeted with wind
farms to placate the "greenies"- and Daniel Hannan - who notes that electoral
reform doesn't necesssarily mean proportional representation.

2.52pm Three responses to Cameron' s speech worth taking into account.


     ·    Fraser Nelson: In entering coalition talks, Cameron tests his
          authority within party. Inquiry into electoral reform? The Spectator
          cannot support this.
     ·    Guido Fawkes: Don't do it Fraser. This is an historic chance to
          destroy the Labour Party as a party of government if only Tory
          tribalists can see the strategic opportunity.
     ·    Alastair Campbell: Cameron apparently stopped by shadow cabinet from
          going further. Europe and PR clearly very difficult


2.50pm Rumour that Nick Clegg due to speak soon has been dismissed by Nick
Robinson as highly unlikely.

2.42pm (WH)DavidCameron began with thanks to Tories for the election result and
the campaign. "We gained more seats than at any election for the last 80 years,"
he said,emphasisingthat the Conservatives won 2 million more votes than Labour,
who had the worse loss of seats since 1931. Labour won't be involved in the
present negotiations, he implies. But then he stresses that, although a minority
government could work, the state of the economy means that a government
involving theConservativesand Liberal Democrats working together is the way
forward. Hebelieves"with all my heart" the offer to Nick Clegg - which will
involve compromise for the Tories - is in the interests of the country. BUT: all
options remain open, in terms of the formality of the agreement.

2.38pm (WH) More to follow, but key quote from David Cameron: "I want to make a
big, open and comprehensive offer to the Liberal Democrats."

2.30pm (WH)Cameron to speak shortly. And Clegg, says David Dimbleby, to respond
afterwards. This is the crucial half hour.

2.13pm Toby Young, our pollster-in-chief, asks, "Who predicted result
correctly?"

2.10pm (WH) A quick video recap to Nick Clegg's statement this morning, by far
the most important of the day so far.

2.08pm We are now awaiting David Cameron's statement - at 2.30pm - from St.
Stephen's Constitutional Club. "This is the most difficult moment for Cameron in
his political career," Andrew Marr says on the BBC.

2.06pm                     Fraser Nelson tweets: "Cameron has 2.03m more votes
than Brown (so far). His share of vote: 36.2% Blair had 35.3% in 2005. This is
the Tory case for minority government."

2.03pm (WH) Rumours suggest today's Evening Standard splash runs something like
this: "Get out of Number 10, Gordon."

2.02pm (WH) Iain Dale says Gordon Brown's mini=speech was "a desperate statement
from a desperate politician." He points out that Gordon Brown hasn't promised
PR, but a referendum on PR. An important distinction.

1.52pm (RC) I suspect many will have a rather Cromwellian reaction to Brown's
appearance outside No 10: "Depart, I say; and let us be done with you. In the
name of God, go!"

1.48pm (WH) Gordon Brown's statement: "With the outcome of the General
Election," he starts, "we findourselvesin apositionunkown to this generation
ofpoliticians." He spoke "as Prime Minister, not as Labour Party leader." And
then stated: "If talks between Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg come to nothing, then I
would be willing to talk to Mr Clegg." Brown suggested that the common ground
between Labour and the Lib Dems would be the economy, and electoral reform. He
said that there would have to be an urgent referendum on electoral reform.

13.41pm As we wait for Gordon Brown's statement outside Number 10, Benedict
Brogan says "Get your pitchforks ready, Labour is planning a coalition of the
losers."

1.18pm Ian Cowie asks whether a coalition government could herald new, US-style
taxes. He writes on his blog:

A new 'citizenship tax' for all British passport holders - including expatriates
- could help a hung Parliament ease ballooning budget deficits without hurting
most voters, accountants claim.

They say Britain may  follow the American Internal Revenue Service example and
require every citizen to file tax returns regardless of their country of
residence.

1.14pm Benedict Brogan says it still looks like Cameron will be PM. But the
Tories, he notes, are an unforgiving bunch: "Mr Cameron has delivered a historic
achievement but as we have always argued at the Telegraph, the odds have been
stacked against him. But the Tories are an unforgiving party. Trust the
Conservatives to start knifing each other when Gordon Brown is still sitting
there in No10."

1.07pm On his blog,James Delingpole comments on the failure of David Cameron's
"A-listers" to win their respective seats. Calling them "Cameron's cuties", he
says:

I first started having serious doubts about the Cameron project at a charity
quiz a month or so after he'd taken over as party leader. On my table was an
Oxford contemporary who should have been a shoo-in for a Tory seat. Bright,
personable, hard-working and incredibly dedicated, he'd come from a fairly
humble, state-educated background and planned his whole life with a view to
serving his country as an MP. That's why, after Oxford, he'd taken a job in the
City which he thoroughly loathed but which he knew would give him the financial
security he needed for when he started to campaign for parliamentary office.
There was just one problem...

1.06pm one Tory MP, Douglas Carswell, says it is time to consider electoral
reform. He writes on his blog:

Ask me if we need electoral reform five years ago, and I'd have said an emphatic
"no". But then I spent five years in the House of Commons. I've seen what
happens when 7 out of 10 MPs come from safe seats. One party fiefdoms means an
unhappy lack of choice and competition in our politics.

Choice and competition raise standards and output in business and commerce.
It's time for the centre right to apply that logic to politics, too. Some forms
of PR would make matters worse, insulating 9 out of 10 MPs from proper
accountability.  But a different sort of electoral reform would make MPs much
more accountable.

1.04pm (RC) Jack Dromey gets a very amusing pasting from Paxman, insistingthat
the country doesn't want a Conservative government. It certainlydoesn't want a
Labour one, points out Paxo.

12.55pm Iain Dale is under from Will Strawpressure to streak down Whitehall
(Dale promised to if last night's exit poll was accurate). "Stop perving!",
replies the indignant Tory blogger on Twitter.

12.48pm                     Drudge reports that Britain is "all hung up":

12.43pm                     Iain Martin at the WSJ writes that Clegg is not in a
position to dictate terms to David Cameron:

Nick Clegg has just been absolutely humiliated. (This inconvenient fact is being
mostly skimmed over by the BBC today for some reason). Clegg's new politics is a
smoking ruin. Cleggmania is destined to be an amusing trivia question in years
to come. He has actually lost seats. His vote share has barely gone up. He is in
no position to dictate terms to anyone, and I stronly suspect he's bright enough
to know it.

12.15pm (WH) Fraser Nelson notes on Twitter: "Griffin failed but BNP vote
strong. 542,000 votes so far, up from 192,000 last election. Share of vote to
1.7pc (so far) from 0.7pc."

12.12pm (WH) A reader emails me the full Boris Johnson Paxman exchange
(11.41am), saying it has been the highlight so far today.

Boris: "I think if our new government is to be a Wall's sausage, the meat of
that sausage should be Conservatism. Of course there will be plenty of other
bits and pieces in there like bread and what have you, but the meat should be
the Conservatives."

Paxman: "Will it be a chipolata or Cumberland sausage?"

Boris: "Enough of this gastronomic metaphor, I have tired of it."

Paxman: "But you started it!"

12.03pm Robert Colvile says Nick Clegg is right: the system is broken. And he's
not talking about electoral reform. Meanwhile, Robert points out, Bryony Gordon
has written in today's paper about the horrors of Andrew Neil's "sinking ship"
of celebrities. She writes:

Ring-a-ding-ding! All aboard the BBC boat, where the corporation has assembled
for the licence-fee payer the cream of political commentators. Yes, here we have
one Bruce Forsyth, expert on, er, the paso doble, irritating catchphrases and
now, it would seem, the general election. Brucie tells the camera that he is
feeling "uncomfortable", as no doubt the viewers are, too.

But Bryony adds that Sky wasn't much better:

Sky News had inexplicably chosen last night to launch their high definition
service, so you could see every crease on Adam Boulton's giant head, and every
bead of sweat on elected MPs as they thanked their wives, their agents. Oscar
night for ugly people, it was. With really bad celebrity boat parties.

11.58am Neil O'Brien, Director of Policy Exchange, asks on his Telegraph blog:
Just who are these new MPs then?

11.57am                     Damian Thompson writes that the Lib Dems are
stuffed:

The Lib Dems cannot afford to contest another election for a long time. They
haven't got the money, and they haven't got enough MPs to force David Cameron to
grant them true proportional representation. Dave will offer them PR in the
Lords, fixed terms, perhaps a referendum on AV (not proportional representation,
not even close) and, er, that's it.

11.56am Ian Cowie, the Telegraph's Personal Finance editor, reports on his blog
that the markets are wrong to mark down sterling and gilts this
morning,according to the chief investment officer of Switzerland's oldest
private bank.

11.51am Left Foot Forward, the blog edited by Will Straw, tweets the following
statement: "Britain has voted for a progressive majority intent on change."
Guido quickly responds: "Reality check. Change doesn't mean the same people in
government."

11.43am Mirror hack Kevin Maguire writes on Twitter: "Cameron statement 2.30pm.
Is he resigning? Not winning's hard."

11.41am "The meat in the sausage must be conservatism," Boris Johnson tells
Jeremy Paxman. Before adding: "The government of London will carry on,
regardless."

11.33am                     Paul Waugh notes the following exchange between Lord
Mandelson and Gary Gibbon on Channel 4 news and says that "the Dark Lord" has
made it clear that it's game over if Labour and the Lib Dems can't form a
majority:

Gary Gibbon: "If at the end of the day, and we have the numbers in front of us,
Labour plus the Lib Dems doesn't get you to a majority, it's game over isn't it?
Gordon's got to pack his bags?"

Mandelson: "It means that he would I think have no alternative but to look to
form a minority government offered by the Conservatives in the scenario you
describe, but with all the limitations and shortcomings of that minority
government."

11.30am                      On his Wall Street Journal blog, Iain Martin says
Britain should prepare for Cameron as PM. He writes:

[Labour] haven't, on the current projections, got the numbers. It seems that
this was the reluctant initial conclusion of a Labour summit at dawn at the
party's HQ. Brown, Mandelson, campaign supremo Douglas Alexander and other
senior figures met. They did the sums. Add together the likely number of Labour
seats and Lib Dem seats and it comes to well short of the 326 required. Labour
also thinks, as the Tories seem to, that the projections of 309 understates a
bit where the Tories will end up. It would only be a runner if the Tories were
down below that and the other two could get clearly more seats than Cameron.

11.27am (WH) We are expecting Cameron to say how he will try to form "strong and
stable government" at 2.30pm. Meanwhile, Downing Street sources have told Laura
Kuenssberg that Gordon Brown "won't speak to Clegg until all the results are in
- so probably nothing until at least 3.30pm."

11.20am                     Jeremy Warner notes that the pound has spiked, after
Nick Clegg "backed" the Tories.

11.15am (WH) Breaking: David Cameron will issue a statement at 2:30pm.

11.13am Harry Mount says a hung parliament shows how crucial the Queen is: "We
are literally in a state of anarchy - meaning, from the Greek, "without a
leader". But, still, no one's taking to the streets, and an underlying
confidence remains that a Prime Minister will eventually be found."

11.12am (WH)Philip Johnston writes in today's Telegraph (6am edition), reminding
the Delingpoles among us that David Cameron'sachievement cannot be overstated:

At the outset of the campaign, Mr Cameron faced the biggest uphill struggle the
Conservatives had experienced at any election since the Second World War.

As polling stations closed yesterday, they needed a swing of almost seven per
cent to win an overall majority, far greater even than the 5.2 per cent achieved
by Margaret Thatcher in 1979.

11.00am                      David Hughes writes on his blog: "Well, we are
going to have to get used to this. We have just been hanging on every word of
the party leader trailing a distant third in this election for he is the king
maker. Nick Clegg has just repeated his campaign undertaking that the party with
the biggest mandate should have the first chance of forming a government, so the
Tories it is. But he threw the ball firmly into their court, asking David
Cameron to show he is ready to govern in the national interest. The
horse-trading has started - and Gordon Brown may be in for a rather difficult
day."

10.41am "Last night was a disappointment for the Liberal Democrats," says Nick
Clegg outside his party HQ. "I've also said the party with the most votes and
the most seats has the first right to form a government... And I stick by that.
It is now for the Conservative Party to prove that it can govern in the national
interest."

10.4oam                     Harry Mount says there has been a collapse
inblockparty voting. He argues:

Voters haven't moved en masse from one party to another. Instead, people have
voted idiosyncratically, individually and locally, with wildly varying results
in different constituencies. For all the talk of the TV debates swinging block
votes in one direction or another, it hasn't happened. This is not what David
Cameron was thinking of when he talked about the joys of localism.

10.34am                     Philip Johnston says David Cameron will be Prime
Minister. He asks: "if you were Nick Clegg why would you want to prop up a
discredited government like Mr Brown's? More to the point, if you were an
aspiring Labour leader, for instance Ed Balls or David Miliband, why would you
want to sit in a patchwork Cabinet sustained, presumably, by a motley collection
of minor parties, like a Green or a nationalist? It would be an unstable
Ministry that would be smashed at the subsequent general election."

10.20am Damian Thompson asks if the Guardian, which predicted an outright win
for David Cameron - and backed the Lib Dems - could have got it more wrong? He
concludes: "So far as we can tell, Guardian readers did what they usually do:
they ignored Mr Rusbridger's instructions and voted Labour. Because, although
comment is free, facts are sacred, and one of the facts to emerge from the last
week of the election was that Nick Clegg was full of hot air."

10.14am David Hughes wonder if Nick Clegg will fall for 'old politics' - or if
he will stick to his promise to talk first to the party with the most seats. He
writes:

Am I missing something? Didn't Nick Clegg assure us throughout the election
campaign that in the event of a hung Parliament, he would back the party with
the biggest popular mandate. He acted coy, of course, and would not
notspecifywhether that meant share of vote or number of seats.

10.07am (DT) So, a quick recap of The Guardian's coverage of this election.
Sitting in front of me is this morning's final edition of the paper, which
reports "initial results suggesting that the Tories could win a narrow overall
majority".

10.00am Ian Cowie writes on his blog what a hung parliament could mean for your
personal finances:

The last hung Parliament led to very hard times for savers and homebuyers but
City experts are divided about whether today's indecisive general election
result will also hit pension fund values and mortgage costs.

The last time a British election failed to produce a clear majority - as appears
to be the case today - was in February, 1974. At that time, the FTSE All Share
Index - a broad measure of the stock market - fell nearly 15pc in a month and
ended the year more than 50pc below where it began.

9.38am (CR) The Telegraph's Mary Riddell writes that Brown is fighting on;
meanwhile Tracy Corrigan warns that this morning's moderate market reaction to
the uncertainty could swiftly turn brutal. The Queen, at least, is anything but
jittery, says Christopher Howse.

9.11am                                              (Ceri Radford)
Some reaction from the blogosphere:

Like James Delingpole, Peter Hoskin's thoughts are turning to vengeance. Let the
recriminations begin, he writes on CoffeeHouse:

The problem for the party leaders is that they are not plotting their courses in
calm waters. There will be plenty of anger in Tory circles that they didn't
manage to achieve a majority. Labour can hardly be pleased that they've sunk
close to Michael Foot levels of support - and many will argue that a different
leader will be better placed to organise a coalition with Clegg. And the Lib
Dems will, I imagine, be completely shellshocked. Nothing has really gone to
plan for anyone.

Iain Dale, meanwhile, wants the head of the Electoral Commission's chairwoman on
a platter for the shambolic scenes at some polling stations:

The conduct of this election has been the most unprofessional ever. If the
chairwoman of the Electoral Commission had anything about her she would resign,
as would the chairman of the Association of Returning Officers. They have failed
the country and need to be held to account for it.

And on the New Statesman blog, George Eaton writes that this was not the
disaster for Labour that many feared (or hoped for/prayed for/dreamed of with
tears misting their eyes, depending.)

Finally, after weeks of level-pegging with the Lib Dems in the opinion polls,
Labour has reaffirmed its position as the dominant centre-left party. Clegg's
claim that the election had turned into a "two-horse race" between the Tories
and the Lib Dems now looks astonishingly hubristic.

The newly-humbled Lib Dems may well be tempted to form a partnership of
principle with Labour, rather than an alliance of convenience with the Tories.

8.48am (DT) Tory Right-winger James Delingpole has been sitting, smiling grimly,
for the last month, finger on the trigger but holding his fire just in case the
Conservative modernisers proved him wrong. Now he's blazing away on his
Telegraph blog:

I do think we are now entitled to ask ourselves whether Steve Hilton was worth
the 200,000 plus he has been paid this last five years to act as the chief
architect of this stunning Tory victory. And whether next time, they might
consider asking someone more red-bloodedly Tory than Oliver Letwin - Yasmin
Alibhai-Brown, maybe, or Johann Hari - to take charge of the manifesto.

And also to dwell sadly on what might have been - if only the Conservatives had
gone into this election offering us some clear blue water, rather than a
mish-mash of libtard platitudes.

They detoxified the brand all right. But in doing so they also destroyed it.

8.38am Stephen Pollard, editor of the Jewish Chronicle and former Labour
supporter, says on Twitter:

If Lab politburo remove Brown for Lib deal they'll reveal their contempt for
democracy: no other Lab figure took part in debates.

8.33am And here's a happy little Tweet from bien pensant music critic and
novelist Jessica Duchen: "Zut alors. i cannot believe Zac bloody Goldsmith is
really our new MP! WTF?!?"

8.17am From Benedict Brogan's latest blog post:

Peter Mandelson appears to have told the BBC just now that if the price of a
coalition is Gordon Brown's head, that could be arranged.

8.09am (DT) Uh-oh, Joanne Cash isn't taking her defeat very well, judging by
this Tweet: "I feel some dread for our country as it hurls itself off a cliff
face at such a time."

8.07am Our blogger Lord Tebbit, former Conservative Party chairman, tells David
Cameron: do not form a coalition, above all with the Lib Dems, decisively
rejected by the electorate.

7.43am: (DT) David Dimbleby interviewing an exhausted Michael Gove, who looks as
if his contact lenses are giving him hell. Dimbleby keeps asking him whether he
approves of Ted Heath's frantic attempts to form an alliance with Jeremy Thorpe
in February 1974. Gove knows his electoral history backwards, so he's able to
bat away the analogy by pointing out that Brown has been far more
comprehensively beaten than Heath in terms of the popular vote. What he can't
tell us is whether Dave will do a deal, or with whom. Not a happy man.

7.38am: Prediction from Matthew d'Ancona: "David Cameron will form a minority
government propped up by votes from Ulster".

7.30am Our blogger Ed West is also fascinated by Dr Harris' defenestration:

Harris, whose sterling work trying to reform the libel lawsand promotion of
science has earned him a hugeandsycophantic following on Twitter,said he did not
expect a week ago to lose his seat. Perhaps that's why he spent all his time on
social networking sites retweeting all of his lackeys' grovelling praise.

7.18am: (DT) Glenda Jackson in trouble in Hampstead and Kilburn: apparently only
70 votes separate her from her opponent. Why is she putting herself through all
this at her age? She'll be 74 in a couple of days.

7.09am Tweet from Kate Maltby, a Tory in America: "Conservatives have won the
popular vote. If they don't form the next government we can never look Florida
in the eyes again."

6.55am (DT) I've just blogged on the humiliation of the Lib Dems, with special
reference to "Dr Death", Evan Harris, whose political career passed away
suddenly and not at all peacefully this morning.

6.15am (DT) Phone call from Dan Hannan, just escaped from what he describes as a
very badly run count in North Kent. "There have been phenomenal swings to the
Tories in the Medway towns, among the white working class whose parents voted
Labour and have been totally let down by them," he says. He's delighted by the
double-digit swing to Douglas Carswell, MP for Clacton, Eurosceptic ideological
soulmate and co-author of The Plan, a localist blueprint for renewing Britain
that Hannan really ought to get round to plugging on his blog one day.

6.06am Johann Hari mourns "devastating loss" of Evan Harris.

6.00am (DT) Margaret Hodge trounces Nick Griffin in Barking: 24,600 to his
6,600. Note that the Tories are only on 8,000. Meanwhile, a scowling Evan Harris
blames a "crazy electoral system" for losing his seat by 176 votes. A week ago,
he wasn't expecting to lose, he says. I'd make that a day ago.

5.50am (DT) Caroline Lucas wins Brighton Pavilion for the Green Party. A trimph
for "the politics of hope over the politics of fear," she says. Hmm. And, yes,
Zac Goldsmith has taken Richmond Park. So that's another Green victory, sort of.
But he's also a Eurosceptic; I've heard Norman Tebbit say nice things about him.

5.47am (DT) Has Zac Goldsmith won Richmond? That's what Twitter is saying.
Meanwhile, St Vince holds on to his fat majority in Twickenham: north of 12,000.
But with a less than 1 per cent swing to the Lib Dems.

5.40am (DT) Tory Alok Sharma wipes out Labour MP Martin Salter's 5,000 majority
in Reading West. Salter, a Telegraph election blogger, stood down. He's a wily
old bird (excellent constituency MP, incidentally) and I reckon he saw this
coming.

5.35am (DT) Now that (very nice) Tory chick-lit novelist Louise Bagshawe has
been elected for Corby, can we PLEASE have an end to her ultra-chirpy on-message
Tweets?

5.25am (DT) Philippa Stroud and Shaun Bailey have failed to land their seats.
With Joanne Cash down, that makes a trio of disasters for the Cameroons.
Watching the count at Hammersmith now; Bailey looks crushed. And no wonder -
this handsome, charismatic young black activist has been massively lionised by
the Tory in-crowd.

5.16am (DT) Tim Montgomerie tweets that ConservativeHome no longer believes that
a Tory majority is possible.

5.08am (DT) Joanne Cash's failure to take Westminster North will hit Cameron
hard: CCHQ had to send in bug guns to rescue her after a ludicrous factional
battle among local Tories led her to step down in a 24-hour hissy fit. She's
bright and fun, a real loss to the Conservatives, but she has just handed a
victory to Dave' enemies in the party.

5.05am (WH)The big question: will Gordon do a Mugabe?

4.58am (WH)Charles Clarke loses his seat. Joanne Cash fails to gain Westminster
North.

4.57am (WH) Over two third of the seats have been declared, says Fiona Bruce.
Yes, we are

4.56am (WH) Ed Balls keeps his seat. "And the possibility of being Labour
leader," notes Nick Robinson.

4.37am (WH)Jacqui Smith has lost her seat. As has Shahid Malik. Two MPs'
expenses "scalps".

4.32am (DT) Lib Dem Evan Harris is out in Oxford West! For pro-lifers, opponents
of abortion and euthanasia, this is literally an answer to prayers. "Dr Death",
so called because of his passion for medical "terminations", has himself been
terminated and will have to go back to his patients. Meanwhile, a former TV
personality gets 1,800 votes in Luton. "Esther Rantzen fails to win", says the
headline, which is putting it mildly.

4.19am Douglas Murray writes: "Labour losses, Lib Dems failing to live up to any
hype and the Conservatives failing to make gains they should have walked
through. Itlooks likewe the people have turned out in record numbers to punish
the major parties equally. And, judging from Scotland, the minority parties
too.Fun for the time being but this is going to spell mayhem over the coming
days."

4.17am Our very own Raf Sanchez has been speaking to Tessa Jowell in Lambeth:

Tessa Jowell, the Olympics Minister, has hinted broadly that she expects Labour
to try and form a coalition with the Liberal Democrats if the Conservatives fall
short of an overall majority.

She tells the Telegraph: "I think that what we're seeing being played out here
is something that the public have been calling out for - which is a new kind of
politics focused on less tribalism and where different parties do agree to work
together."

"I think that the most significant thing is that the Tories have failed to make
the advance that they expected, and indeed that many polls predicted," she adds.

4.15am The crowd on Andrew Neil's boat is lookingincreasinglyjaded. Nick Cohen
wonderfully coherent. But Ian Hislop - a Lib Dem supporter - looking glum. And
now: "two stars from the apprentice"...(DT) Nick Cohen explains the Lib Dem
humiliation: "Left-wing, working-class Britain was terrified by folk memories of
a Tory government."

3.54am                     Henry Macrory tweets: "Louise Bagshawe elected in
Corby." Meanwhile, Fraser Nelson adds: "Balls is safe, my spies tell me - so no
Portillo moment. All told, that exit poll I ridiculed earlier on looks horribly
accurate."

3.45am Raf Sanchez sends this picture: the counts for Streatham and Vauxhall
taking place inside Lambeth town hall.

3.42am (WH)ConservativestakeCarlisle with a swing of 7 per cent.

3.40am Raf Sanchez writes:

Tessa Jowell, the Olympics minister, has just arrived for her count, which is
also taking place at Lambeth town hall."What an extraordinary night," she tells
us. Hoping to speak to her more fully in a moment.

3.39am (WH) Over a third of seats have been declared - we are on course for a
hung parliament, it would seem. And that 10pm exit poll looks more accurate that
it was immediately assumed.

3.13am Cristina Odone reports on her evening at the smartest election parties in
town:

It took a blind man to see clearest tonight. David Blunkett was the first Labour
spokesman to talk the truth: Labour would not get a majority. As he said it in
Sheffield, cheers went up in a corner of west London. Fashionable Little Venice,
to be precise, where Harriet Sergeant, journalist, and Virginia Fraser, Frank
Johnson's widow,  held an election party at a splendid house that screamed
"Mansion Tax".

Sergeant has been campaigning in Hammersmith for Shaun Bailey, the Conservative
candidate. The guests were no less Tory. Charles Moore, Tessa Keswick, Peter
Oborne, and a cluster of Frasers cheered at every Conservative gain. "Will they
have Harriet Harman on, I wonder?" murmured one of the clan, as the BBC wheeled
on Tessa Jowell and Margaret Hodge. "Harriet? She's horrid!" screeched someone.
And then, realising this could be a faux pas, "Oh, she's your cousin, isn't
she?"  (Lady Longford, the Fraser matriarch, was Harman's aunt). "Don't worry" a
Fraser piped up, "Harriet doesn't like us. She hates being reminded that she's
part of our family."

As we were shown footage of hooded youths being turned away from polling
stations in Manchester and Hackney, one guest unsportingly called out:
"Brilliant! They looked like Lib Dem supporters." In fact, the orderly queues to
vote were a testament to how the media has misrepresented this election: voters
were not steeped in cynicism and indifference, the Lib Dems did not  walk on
water, and the BNP did not make significant gains. (The one media outlet that
did get the Lib Dems right was The Economist, whose editorial was quoted by one
guest: Cleggmania was "a holiday romance". )

If David Blunkett put his finger on an unpalatable truth for Labour, Alastair
Campbell got to the Tories' Achilles' heel when he told Andrew Neil that
everyone had predicted a Tory victory by midnight. Instead, there was all to
play for. What accounted for this? I asked one of my fellow guests, a Tory
supporter close to Cameron. "Cameron's clever and can be steely in conflict. But
he called it wrong on Ashcroft, the marriage tax and George Osborne. I have some
business up in North Yorkshire and they told me there that Ken Clarke as
Chancellor would have been worth 20 points up there. If he's right, Cameron's
miscalculated badly." That remains to be seen.

3.03am (WH) Cameron speaks in Witney: "I believe it is already clear that the
Labour party has lost its mandate to govern this country." That is clear enough.
But has he won one?

2.58am (WH)Very significant: in Somerton and Frome, Conservative candidate
Annunziata Rees-Mogg lost to Lib Dem David Heath by 28,793 to 26,976 votes - a
difference of 1817. The UKIP vote for thatconstituency? 1,932. Ouch.

2.49am Lembit Opik appears on BBC news. Jeremy Paxman asks him if it had
anything to do with the cheeky girls. He did not look impressed.

2.46am Douglas Murray writes: "Acatastrophe for the Conservatives. Annunziata
Rees-Mogg, after a very hard-fought campaign, failing to take Somerset and
Frome. Only a couple of years agocertain press were touting herasa future
Conservative Defence Secretary. Her failure in Somerset is a very worrying
portent for the Tories at this election."

2.45am Janet Daley comments:

Is this theultimatepoetic justice: the LibDems finally got the share of media
attention and public exposure they alwayswanted. And what happened? Thevoters
discovered what their actual policies were.End of the illusion that they were
the harmless protest party who could be safely chosen as the protest option when
you wanted to kick both the major parties. Exposure turned out to be
double-edged.

2.44am Douglas Murray writes: "If the story of the campaign was the Clegg factor
then the story of the election looks like that theLib Dems were thedog that
didn't bark. What an amazing disconnect between viewer reactions and vooting
booth crosses."

2.42am Harry Mount notes: "Alastair Campbell has changed tack massively, on Sky
News now, attacking the press for giving Gordon Brown a hard time. Until now, he
has stuck to the line of saying how brilliant Gordon Brown is; now he has turned
defensive."

2.39am (WH) Annunziata Rees-Mogg has not won Somerton and Frome. That was number
11 on the Tory hit-list. If only she had changed her name to Nancy...

2.34am Tim Collard, Telegraph blogger and Labour supporter, writes: "Some Tory
victories, but none in the North. I've always said that Labour would hold the
North. Yes, it's gone a bit pear-shaped in the South and the Midlands, but Tory
hopes of a majority depend on a bit of a breakthrough in our region, or at least
on some Lib Dem gains from us up here. Sorry, Dave."

2.29am Ed West comments:"Opik has gone! Parliament's most entertaining man, both
advertantly and inadvertantly, has gone. A shame really -he's theleast
insufferably smug and sanctimonious Liberal Democrat in Britain."

2.28am David Hughes writes: "A great result for Glyn Davies in Montgomeryshire,
zapping the human anagram and playboy Lembit Opik. Davies is one of the most
engaging men in politics and also writes a great blog. He will add to the gaiety
of Westminster no end."

2.26am (RC) Oliver Letwin stays and Lembit Opik goes. Could have got verygood
odds on that - illustrates how brilliantly unpredictable tonightis becoming.

2.25am (WH) Lembit Opik has lost his seats to the Conservatives in
Montgomeryshire, Wales. A swing of 13.2 per cent! Forget Cleggmania - and Ed
Balls. This is the "Portillo moment" of this election, iftheremust be one.

2.23am (RC) One thing worth noting is that Ukip have been polling in the three
(orvery low four) figures across the board. For all the talk ofdisililusioned
Tories, those who couldn't bring themselves to vote forCameron seem to have
stayed at home rather than crossed the floor.

2.15am (WH) Jeremy Paxman asks Sayeeda Warsi, "You're not doing very well, are
you?" He notes that the Tories failed to win "Gelding", a target seat. He meant
Gedling, of course, not the other thing.

2.02am (RC) For all Labour's contortions about tactical voting, the message
fromGuildford is clear: Lib Dem voters won't support Labour to help themtopple a
Tory. Tactical voting will probably, as in previous years, beanti-incumbent.
Meanwhile, Ed Miliband continues mildy sickeningMandelsonian attempt to portray
a vote for Labour as a vote forelectoral reform.

2.01am (RC) Where are the Lib Dems? They've held their own in straight
fightsagainst the Tories, but the general picture is of a Tory/Labourbattle.
Maybe the exit poll was right...

1.57am Raf Sanchez writes:

Just spoken to a tired-looking Chuka Umunna, who claims to have had just under
200 activists out canvassing today - an extraordinary figure if it's true.He
says: "We gave it our all and now will deal with the result. I'm happy and I'm
incredibly proud of my team."

Going to try and find Chris Nicholson, the Liberal Democrat candidate and
Umunna's only real competition in Streatham.

1.56am Tim Collard responds: "And no Tory gain in Tooting either! only a 3.6%
swing. Shouldn't the Tories be doing better than this after 13 years of death
and destruction from Labour?"

1.55am Douglas Murray says: "Very disappointing result for Tories in Tooting.
Mark Clarke fought a good campaign andhad things beenwhat they were only a
couple of years ago for the Tories heshould have romped to victory against Sadiq
Khan tonight."

1.54am (WH) A reader emails to ask, referring to the problems at polling
stations: "Why doesn't someone say that the voters had from 7am to 10pm tonight
to vote and they shouldn't have left it so late?"

Well, one answer to this question is here on this Facebook group, titled
"Discrimination against students at St. Johns Ranmoor polling station". The
group description says it is for:

...Anyone who started queuing after 5.30pm (correct me if it also affected
people who started queuing before this point) who werediscriminatedagainst in
the speed of which they were able to vote because of the creation of a seperate
faster queue for local "residents"

This is shocking. If it is true, why were the student not treated like other
voters?

1.45am Janet Daley comments: "Lib Dems have failed to take Durham from
Labour:serious disappointment for them. The big story of the night may well be
the stunning failure of the Lib Dems. When I predicted that a large poorportion
of the Lib Dem support would evaporate on polling day, I did not anticipate
anything as major as this."

1.44am Tim Collard says: "And we've held the City of Durham, on a small majority
against the Lib Dems! We're holding the North, as I've always predicted! No real
sign of any shift in the BBC exit polls."

1.40am (WH) Can anyone explain the man standing behind Gordon Brown. I gather he
is Derek Jackson from the "Land is Power" party. What's the fist for?Ed West
writes:

Who's the nutter making the black power fist in Kirkaldy? There's also a guy in
a kilt, and someone wearing a yellow council donkey jacket. Gordon Brown thanks
everyone for the "dignified" way they've conducted the campaign there.

Fist man.

1.36am Douglas Murray notes: "A revealing comments from David Blunkett just now
when asked about Lib-Dem co-alition possibilities. He says the Labour party
should now 'Unite the anti-Conservative forces'. Anyone else hear a small 'c'
being used there as well as the big one? First shiver of the night."

1.28am (RC) Wales proving resistant to the Cameron effect - is his charm
peculiarly English?

1.26am Ed West notes: "I keep on hearing people - Alastair Campbell the latest -
saying that "Britain is a progressive country", based on the fact that the Lib
Dems and Labour together have a majority of the overall vote. It will be
interesting to see how PR affects thatassessment."

1.25am (RC) Sylvia Hermon wins as an independent in North Down, which
confirmsanecdotal evidence that Cameron's Ulster Unionist/Tory pact (orrather,
the botched way it was handled) has done severe damage to theUUP. Hermon was a
v. popular UUP MP who couldn't bring herself tostand as a Tory ally. For all
Daniel Hannan's talk about thenormalisation of Ulster politics the power
ofpersonalityremains strong in the province.

1.22am Benedict Brogan writes on his blog that Prime Minister Cameron would make
national security his first announcement:

I'll take the stonking 11.5 per cent swing to the Tories in Washington and
Sunderland West as permission to talk about what Prime Minister Cameron's first
day might be like, even if Sunderland Central produced a swing of just 4.8 per
cent(shall we split the difference?).

I gather that what is already a fairly well scripted day - scripted by the Civil
Service that is -  the 'Tories in power with majority' scenario would involve
Gordon Brown saying his farewells to staff at about 12.30, before heading for
the Palace at 1pm to tender his resignation to the Queen. Mr Cameron will follow
him there at about 1.30 to kiss hands, and then the serious work begins...

1.19am Mary Riddell writes: "Big gain for the Tories in Kingswood. Exactly what
Labour was fearing. But LibDems easily hold Torbay againt Tory challenge. So no
discernible pattern yet, but no cause either for Conservative glee at this very
early stage."

1.14am On the Finance channel, Jonathan Sibun is following the markets' reaction
to the election results. He writes:

The initial signs are far from clear. The pound is flip-flopping higher and
lower against the dollar, most recently up by three-quarters of a cent to just
over $1.49. I'll also keep an eye on the Gilt markets and FTSE index futures,
both of which open at 1am, and keep you up to speed with market reaction from
leading analysts and commentators as I have it.

1.11am (WH) Lib Dems hold Torbay. The swing from the Lib Dems to the
Conservatives is1.1 per cent. Meanwhile, on the BBC, Emily Maitliss is
struggling with an expensive piece of BBC Swingometer-type machinery. "Shall I
kick it?", she asks.

1.08am Tim Collard, rooting for Labour, writes: "Some nasty-looking swings in
Durham North and Darlington. And Kingswood, though I don't mind that as the Tory
is quite a good historian. But I don't like the look of the pro-Tory swing at
all, though it seems less serious in the seats we're really fighting."

1.07am (RC) Stonking swing in Kingswood, but equally intriguing is a shot
ofCameron at his count - bright green wallpaper makes it look like aHollywood
CGI studio. Expect the Na'vi to be Photoshopped in byinternet wags within the
hour.

1.06am (WH) 9.4 per cent swing to theConservatives inKingswood. If this is
reflected across the UK, the Tories would win a majority. And David Cameron
would be Prime Minister by the weekend.

1.03am Janet Daley asks: "Why on earth is the BBC still banging on about the
exit poll which has been made redundant by the swing to the Tories in the actual
results? The last two results insafe Labour seats have produced swings of
between 8 and 9 per cent to Conservatives?"

12.59am Raf Sanchez, a Telegraph reporter, is at a party for Labour candidate
Chuka Umunna's supporters next to the Town Hall in Brixton, where the count is
taking place. He writes:

Chuka Umunna'scampaigners look tired but are quietly confident and taking heart
from what looks like smothered support for the Liberal Democrats, Labour's main
challenger in Streatham. "Here it's looking good for us... Across the country?",
one activist begins before trailing off.

12.57am Neil Midgley comments: "BBC looking increasingly embarrassed by their
boat party. First the power goes out, taking Andrew Neil (on the boat) off the
air. Now power is back but Neil is reduced to interviewing Joan Collins, Richard
Wilson and Maureen Lipman. Much noise of clinking glasses - and tumbleweed."

12.56am Mary Riddell notes: "Extraordinary result in Belfast East. Peter
Robinson gone. Will his DUP party be in any shape to do the deal that was
supposed, according to some reports, to shore up any minority Tory government?"

12.54am James Kirkup writes: "And here's Dave, enjoying a quiet pint with some
close friends. And 30hacks."

12.51am PhilipJohnston, assistant editor of the Daily Telegraph, says
"justifying problems at the polling stations with talk of a high turnout is
nonsense. In 1992, the turnout wasalmost 80 per cent. The system coped perfectly
then."

12.45am (WH) John Mothersole, Returning Officer for Sheffield, blames a
"phenomenal turnout" and the student demographic for late problems at polling
stations. "We need to get this right," he says, looking understandably sweaty.

12.41am (WH) Electoral commission representative speaking on BBC. It's clear
that the heads of some Returning Officers are going to roll. It gets worse. From
Manchester, Heidi Blake has reported on ourparallelnews article: "As many as 200
voters were turned away from polling stations in Manchester Withington when
doors closed at 10pm.The hyper-marginal constituency is one of Labour's key
targets, with a swing of just 0.7 per cent required to wrest it from John Leech,
the Liberal Democrat incumbent. Officials confirmed that "a couple of dozen
voters" were turned away, but denied reports that the number ran into hundreds."

12.38am David Hughes writes:

The BBC's correspondent in Brighton has just announced that Caroline Lucas of
the Green Party has taken Brighton Pavilion - a fantastic breakthrough. He then
pointed out that they haven't actually started counting the votes yet. Public
service broadcasting at its very best.

12.36am Ed West writes: "Greens on course to win a seat, according to BBC. The
Beebfocuses on smaller parties, BNP in Barking and Greens in Brighton
Pavilion.One are considered cuddly hippies, the others practically subhuman, but
you could put an ethically-sourced, fair trade cigarette paper between the two
anti-globalisation partieson economic policy."

12.34am (RC) Cameron on the way to the count in my home constituency of Witney,
viathe pub - good man. Given that he won 51 per cent of the vote last time -
when he wasn't even particularly well-known nationally - I don't think he's got
much to worry about. (Dab hand with a fete, I can exclusively reveal.)

12.34am David Cameron heads towards his vote count in Witney, followed by a
BBChelicopter.

12.28am James Kirkup writes:

I'm outside the New Inn in Witney, where David Cameron will soon drop in fora
pre-results drink. I'm tempted to make a joke about the Conservativesbeing happy
to make use of Labour's 24-hour drinking laws. But frankly, myfingers are too
cold to type one. In the meantime, feel free to make yourown gags.

12.27am (WH) David Dimbleby talks to Rory Cellan-Jones, the BBC's Technology
Correspondent and Digital Election Correspondent: "Now you've been
looking...er... at Twitter and Facebook, haven't you? But Facebook's been taken
down, hasn't it, after it was hacked?" Just about sums it up: this has NOT been
the digital election, despite delusions to the contrary.

12.24am David Hughes writes:

Good grief. The BBC's "party" hosted by Andrew Neil is turning into a hoot and a
half - he's just "interviewed" David Starkey, Simon Schama - two brilliant
historians - who gave every indication of not having a clue about politics, and
Martin Amis, who knew even less than they did. The blessed Joan Collins rescued
things by looking terrific and talking sense - the trio of intellectuals managed
neither.

12.21am Mary Riddell reports:

Brown off to his count. His aides, drinking Diet Coke and tea, have no idea
where we shall end up tomorrow. Seems to me that there are already two losers,
on the early showing. The first is celebrity politics. Where did all that
Cleggmania go? Second loser are those newspapers who urged their readers to vote
LibDem, to Labour's detriment. Will be interesting, if Clegg's fortunes don't
improve greatly, to see how they reflect on their choice, with Greece and the
world markets in turmoil and the Tories (possibly prematurely) claiming victory.

12.20am (DT)Speculationthat Chris Huhne, current holder of the hotly contested
Smuggest Liberal Democrat title, may fail to hold on to his seat. *Falls to his
knees in supplicatory prayer*.

12.19am (WH) Here's a question: which part of the BBC licence fee paid for
Andrew Neil's yacht on the Thames, which is packed withageingcelebrities. We've
seen Joan Collins, Armando Iannucci, David Starkey and Martin Amis so far. Yes,
that is champagne at the taxpayers' expense.

12.11am (WH) Failed voters tell the BBC: "We thought in a democracy we'd be
allowed to vote."

12.09am (DT) George Osborne asked on Sky why the Conservatives aren't heading
for a triumphant majority, but rather grabbing "low-hanging fruits", as Fraser
Nelson puts it. And he can't offer the handy explanation that this is a
three-horse race, because it isn't. Instead, Osborne talks about greatest number
of seats gained since 1741 (or whenever). Prevarication.

12.08am (WH)An unprecedented statement from the Electoral Commision: "The
ElectoralCommissionwill beundertakinga thoroughh review of what hashappened.
There should have been sufficientresourcesallocated..."

12.02am Mary Riddell writes: "So the Tories' big hope in Sunderland Central
didn't work out. We're not yet seeing any hard evidence of the sort of swing
that might unseat Ed Balls. Too early to infer anything, but any Tory
triumphalism may be premature. So might any Labour relief. Still interesting
that first test of Ashcroft money appears not to have produced dividends."

12.01am Douglas Murray notes: "In a shocking, and rather surprising, example of
BBC bias, Nick Robinson appears to be wearing a Carlton Club tie."

May 7. 12.00am (WH) In Chester, a marginal seat held by Labour, the BBC reports
that more than 600 people were turned away from polling stations - because the
electoral register had not been properly updated. As David Dimbleby points out,
this is scandalous. It will likely to lead to a legal challenge.

11.57pm                     (RC) Labour still talking up coalitions, hung
parliaments, letting the people's voice be heard. Let's be clear: there's no way
they can stay if things stay like this.

11.55pm The Tories say their front-page YouTube advert got 8m views today,
reports Rory Cellan-Jones on Twitter.Impressivestuff. Second, Tim Montgomerie
warns that "a few results from target seats will be necessary before we can get
a true idea of tonight's result."

11.50pm Fraser Nelson, editor of the Spectator, writes on Twitter: "Money makets
now say Tories will have majority. Who do we believe: exit polls or markets?"

11.48pm (RC) The swings in Sunderland so far are all very well, but all eyes
will be on Sunderland Central, where the Tories need a 12.8 per cent swing -
230th on their target list, but they've poured in resources. If they win this
one, it's champagne corks in CCHQ... "Who are yer? Who are yer?" chant the
Labour activists, as Sunderland Central stays in their hands. Turnout 57 per
cent - up from 50 per cent last time - and swing to Tories of 4.8 per cent, more
in line with the BBC exit poll. The fightback starts here.

11.46pm Tim Collard writes: "And now, the one Sunderland seat which Labour had
to defend seriously! Only a 4.8% swing. We haven't lost yet."

11.45pm Ed West notes: "Labour take third Sunderland seat. Isit justmy premature
middle-aged or is the cheering at election counts getting more moronic? They
were shouting "who are you?" I'm sure they didn't do this when all men wore
hats."

11.43pm (DT) One explanation for the Lib Dems' poor showing, not just in the
exit poll but in the north-eastern seats that have declared so far: we forget
how freakishly well they did in those seats in 2005, thanks to the Iraq war and
low turnout by fed-up Labour voters. Jeff Randall points out that the betting
exchanges reckon the Lib Dems will get 70 plus seats - but that's only the
markets, and in any case 70 is a dismal result compared to Clegg's expectations.

11.44pm Ed West writes:

I almost voted Liberal Democrat today.I live in a closely fought Labour/Liberal
Democrat constituency and would never vote for either, but for different
reasons, until I received a letter from Ken Livingstone, of all people, telling
me the Labour candidate is his sort of Labour politician (ie hard-Left nut)and
has his endorsement.I wondered if it was a Liberal Democrat black ops job -
they're not exactly the cleanest fighters.

11.38pm Janet Daley writes: "Second result of the night: in one of Labour's
safest seats, there has been an 11 percent swing to the Tories! Truly
remarkable. Amd further confirmation of LibDem collapse: they have dropped from
second to third place. If this pattern continues, Tories will have a real
majority."

11.37pm Tim Collard, Labour supporter, writes: "First two results showing a
fairly swingeing swing from Lab to Con in Sunderland. But both were safe Labour,
with 50% of the vote in both cases: if Labour fail to that extent to get the
vote out in the seats which really matter, then we're in trouble."He adds:

How does it come about that so many people are left queueing outside polling
stations at 10 p.m.? I don't ever remember that happening before. In my
constituency we were chivvying them up much earlier, by pointing out that it
looked like rain later. The polls were open for fifteen hours for Pete's sake.

11.36pm Ed West writes: "Not entirely convinced by the BBC's domino of
expense-scandal MPs. Not entirely their worst ever general election graphic but
I wonder where the BBC tradition of creating outlandish graphics sprang from.
And whose job it is to think up the graphics? I'd suggest showing the vulnerable
MPs as hanged men with the swing opening the trapdoor. It can't be any more
disturbing than Jeremy Vine in a cowboy outfit." (See Robert Colvile at 11.31pm)

11.34pm David Hughes writes:

Voters being turned away from polling stations is becoming a big, big story.
What are the rules? This is what the Electoral Commission's powerpoint
presentation to returning officers states:

Polling stationsMust close at 10 pm


     ·    Make sure the doors are closed
     ·    Anyone who has been issued with a ballotpaper by 10 pm must be allowed
          to vote
     ·    However cannot issue after 10pm, even ifelector was in a queue at 10pm
     ·    Seal ballot box in the presence ofcandidates, election and polling
          agents,accredited observers, ElectoralCommission representatives and
          PoliceOfficers on duty.
     ·    Agents entitled to affixseal.


From what we are hearing, this has been observed in some polling stations but
not in others. Can't we even run elections any more?

11.33pm                     (RC) Washington & Sunderland kept by Labour - as was
always going to happen - but with a swing from Labour to Tories of double what
Thatcher managed (and more than Blair got the other way). Blimey...
Incidentally, the reason results are announced by the "Acting" Returning Officer
is because the real Returning Officer is the relevant high sheriff/lord mayor.
So there you go.

11.31pm (RC)Why do they let Jeremy Vine play around with stupid computer
graphics? It's not as bad as his ghastly cowboy gear (see video here) but it's
still pretty ropey.

11.30pm                     Mary Riddell writes:

In Gordon Brown's home in Scotland, there's no despondency yet. He and his close
aides say the Tories must be 'gobsmacked', having privately predicted a majority
as high as 20. Mr Brown has 'no problem' with a Labour deal with the LibDems -
all in the cause of a 'stable government.' No one in the PM's camp can believe
Nick Clegg has done as badly as predicted. They warn (despite taking some
comfort from David Cameron's worse than expected prediction) that the exit poll
should be treated with 'great scepticism'. Mr Brown has been catching up with
some sleep. He'll be off to his count soon.

11.28pm (DT) If the Liberal Democrat vote surge has failed to materialise, why
is that? Perhaps there's a clue in a column by David Aaronovitch in today's
Times. He says he would have liked to vote for his "nice, gay, Lib Dem
candidate", but was shocked by a sly, mendacious leaflet from the local party.
He concludes: "So on polling morning, as I walk down the hill to the school, I
think the country needs Mr Cameron as PM. I think the country needs a Lib-Dem
inspired reform of the electoral system. And I think the country needs a Labour
Party that can still be the best hope for social justice at home and progress
abroad. I don't want to see that party, as seems possible, humiliated tonight.
So I'll be voting Labour."

11.19pm Jeremy Warner writes on his blog that the exit polls indicate an unhappy
day for markets:

London markets are already primed for turbulence after the sell-off on Wall
Street last night. On the basis of the exit polls, the outcome of the UK
election is hardly going to help. If the polls are right - and for all the well
rehearsed reasons about exit polls, that's a big if - there's going to be no
overall majority for the Tories. Governing as a minority is notoriously
difficult. Tough, decisive action becomes harder, compromise and horsetrading
the order of the day. In such circumstances, there is bound to be scepticism
about the new Government's ability to implement the necessary degree of deficit
reduction.

11.17pm Benedict Brogan says that, though David Cameron hasn't won a single
seat, "already his achievement is enormous." He writes on his blog:

BBC bosses were anxious about the exit poll and how to handle it. Their fear was
that it would bear no resemblance to the final outcome. But it's all we've got,
and the obvious point is that with 307 seats David Cameron has his hand on the
No10 door-knob. On these numbers, he can contemplate forming a government
without too much haggling. BTW I stick by my forecast of a Tory majority of 9.

11.10pm Douglas Murray writes:

If Douglas Alexander says "We'll wait and see" one more time I'm throwing the
control at him. We are familiar with the passage of time Douglas.Why turn up
ontelevision only to tell people they won't know anything until you're off?

11.07pm (RC) Controversy is growing over people being turned away from voting
booths - 200 people were turned away at 10pm in Sheffield, apparently. Nick
Robinson says that Lewisham kept polls open an extra half-hour, Manchester had
people turned away... high turnout seems to have had unforeseen and potentially
damaging consequences.

11.06pm Cristina Odone, Telegraph blogger, is at an election party in Albany,
Piccadilly, run by Texan millionaire academic Philip Bobbitt, formerly one of
Tony Blair's grandest American supporters. She reports:

Champagne is being swilled vigorously, as people stand around these huge,
beautiful sets of rooms - very swish indeed. But what a shock! As the exit poll
was announced, Prince Michael of Kent stood in a corner, grinning from ear to
ear. At the opposite of the room, former New Statesman editor John Lloyd, always
hangdog, looked utterly devastated. Difficult to tell Labour supporters from Lib
Dems, but general incredulity: "I cannot believe this, we are f-----" gasped a
man from a pro-Europe think tank. Happy muttering from a gaggle of bankers:
"Britain is going to be safe," said one.

11.03pm Neil Midgley: "So far, ITV doing the best coverage. Studio smaller than
BBC, but BBC plagued by minor technical problems and really, really boring
graphics. Teresa May is wearing a silver trouser suit and gold shoes."

11.00pm (RC) 8.4 per cent swing to Tories in Sunderland South - low-ish turnout,
but expect that to be higher for closer seats. Still, there will be smiles on
Tory faces if that kind of swing is replicated nationally.Especially noteworthy
was collapse in Labour vote - down 12 per cent while Tories were up by 5.
Meanwhile, DUP already rubbing their hands, says BBC News, about the bribes they
can extract from Tories for support. No cuts in Ulster, plus a few other
"sweeties".

10.57pm Douglas Murray writes from Vienna: "There's no way the exit pollsare
right re. the Lib Dems.And I for one have a terrible feeling that the reported
turn-outs in certain areas spells a much better evening for Mr Clegg than some
of us wish for him..."

10.51pm Houghton & Sunderland South result: Labour safe win, but swing to
Conservatives from 2005 is 8.4 per cent.

10.48pm (RC) Nate Silver at fivethirtyeight.com, who predicted the US election
with uncanny accuracy, has his own exit predictions - Tories at 341, Labour 219,
Lib Dems 62. He's still urging caution, but definitely thinks the Tories will
hit the 327 they need for an absolute majority. (Hat-tip: Danny Finkelstein).

10.42pm (RC) And lurking behind it all, there's the deficit - events in Greece,
and the slide in the markets in New York today show this might be an election
that's better to lose.

10.40pm                     (RC) Effectively, we're in Spin Alley again, as each
party deploys its spokesmen to put the best face on a situation none of them
will be entirely happy with. Lines are already being deployed - Labour suddenly
arguing for PR, for example - but it's all pretty meaningless until the results
come in.

10.39pm (DT) Harriet Harman is playing the "count all the votes" card, reacting
to reports that "disgruntled would-be voters" didn't manage to cast their votes
before 10pm. Echoes of the Democrats in the US races of 2000 and 2004.

10.34pm (DT) And now Sky wheels out its most magisterial commentator. "The PM
had lamb's stew for dinner, I'm told. I'm sure he's going to find those figures
very hard to swallow." Thanks, Kay Burley!

10.32pm Daniel Hannan says: "I'm going to stick my neck out here. I believe the
exit poll predictions will move during the night: the Tories and LiobDems will
do better, Labour worse."

10.30pm Raf Sanchez, a Telegraph reporter (who will shortly depart for Streatham
for the count there), has spotted an amusing tweet from Arnold Schwarzenegger.
It's not even the right David Cameron.

@Schwarzenegger: Just called @davidcameron to congratulate him on the victory.
We know the Conservatives had a great day

10.29pm (RC) Further to Jeremy Warner's comment (at 10.21pm), the pound is
already down another cent against the dollar.

10.26pm Toby Young, Telegraph blogger and pollster-in-chief, writes:

Absolutely shocking exit poll result. What happened to the Lib Dem vote? Great
news that the Tories are above 300 - Brown will have to resign and David Cameron
will be our next Prime Minister - but it looks as though Labour have
convincingly come second. Having said that, Ipsos MORI underestimated the Lib
Dem vote in 2005 and have probably underestimed it this time. But even If you
increase the number of Lib Dem seats by 20 it's still a poor result.

10.25pm Neil Midgley notes: "Julie Etchingham on ITV seems to be wearing a chic
black trouser suit and a bright red scoop neck top. Is she partisan? No - I am
informed that the trouser suit is in fact navy blue."

10.24pm (DT) Jeremy Hunt, Tory Culture spokesman and normally a fount of good
sense, interprets the exit poll as a "very decisive rejection of Labour". I
would have said 255 seats after a spectacularly disastrous third term was a
pretty impressive showing. I just rang our Labour activist blogger Tim Collard,
who sounds despondent at the prospect of Labour achieving only 30 per cent of
the vote - but what did he expect? Like so many commentators, however, he's wary
of that Lib Dem projection.

10.23pm Henry Macrory, Tory Head of Press, tweets: "Labour are on course to lose
the most seats since 1931."

10.21pm                     Jeremy Warner comments on the exit poll's
implication for the market:

On the basis of the exit polls, it doesn't look as if it will be a happy day in
the markets tomorrow. Already primed for a beating after the sell-off on Wall
Street over night, the stock market isn't going to take a hung parliament well.
As a minority government, the Tories will find it hard to achieve the deficit
reduction the markets demand. So another bad day for the pound, gilts and share
prices should be anticipated.

10.17pm                                          (RC) Is it me, or is there
something a bit needy about Sunderland's desperate race to be first with the
result?

10.16pm (RC) I'd like to give a personal shout-out to my cousin Oliver Colvile,
the Tory candidate in Plymouth Sutton and Devonport, who's trying to overturn a
notional Labour majority of 4,300. His ability to conjure coins from behind
people's ears could come in very handy when tackling the deficit.

10.14pm Benedict Brogan comments: "The exit poll result is a very good starting
point for David Cameron, who really had to break the 300 mark. The Lib Dem
result? I don't believe it for a second."

10.11pm Janet Daley writes: "If the exit poll is correct, the LibDembubble has
well and truly burst. On this showing they would not have the moral right to
behave as kingmakers or power brokers. If thisturns out to be reliable, it
probably means that the immigration issue hit them much harder than was
predicted."

10.10pm The Telegraph's chief leader writer, David Hughes, gives his analysis on
the exit poll:

Nineteen seats short for David Cameron. That's the prediction of tonight's exit
poll. It gives the Tories 307 seats, Labour 255, and the Liberal Democrats 59.
This puts us in hung Parliament territory, with Mr Cameron tantalisingly close
to having more seats than Labour and Lib Dem combined (314). Given that it is
only an exit poll, it suggests the next few hours are going to be very tense
indeed. Nick Clegg will be shattered by this. The star of the campaign, on this
showing he is going to lose seats, not gain them. Here's a bit of background on
how the exit poll is conducted, courtesy of Anthony Wells of UK Polling Report.
It is carried out at around 130 polling stations, and they conduct about 18, 000
interviews. Interviewers stop everynth person coming out the polling station,
and give them a mock ballot paper to fill in, if someone refuses they are not
replaced by another person. Every hour the papers are collected and phoned back
to HQ, where they are weighted for differential response rates. The aim of the
exit poll is to predict the seat totals, not the share of the vote, and the
people doing the analysis try to work out if there are different shifts in
support in different types of seat. In terms of past accuracy, the exit poll
last time got the Labour majority exactly right (though they were slightly off
with Conservative and Lib Dem seats). In the next few hours we are going to see
if it is on the money in 2010.

10.08pm (DT) Only 59 seats for the Lib Dems? "I'm a little bit suspicious of
that figure, but I'm no psephologist." says Adam Boulton on Sky. It is indeed
astonishing. "I don't think politics will ever be the same again," says Alan
Johnson, a supporter of PR. But, if the exit poll is accurate, this is a
conventional distribution of seats, if inconvenient for Prime Minister Cameron.
And a devastating shock for Clegg's supporters.

10.07pm (RC) Prophetic stuff from Damian Thompson, assuming exit poll is
accurate. Meanwhile,Tim Montgomerie of ConservativeHome insists the Tories will
do better than poll suggests.

10.06pm Neil Midgley writes: "ITV's 3D graphics of pugilistic cartoon party
leaders far better than BBC's paving stones. And a huge chunk of the graphics
wall behind Dimbleby failed in the first five minutes, meaning that the camera
had to pull in tight on him. Now the BBC's microphone on Michael Gove isn't
working. Not a great start for the BBC."

10.04pm (RC) Remember that despite the focus on 326 seats, the number at which
the Tories hit an absolute majority, they can have a working majority with fewer
seats: Sinn Fein, for example, never turn up at Westminster out of principle.

10.03pm (RC) The BBC's exit poll is in, and the real shock is that the Lib Dems
appear to have dropped three seats. That's very hard to believe, but points to a
far better than expected performance for Labour.

10.00pm The BBC/ITN/Sky exit poll indicates that it will be a hung parliament,
with the Conservatives winning the most seats, but falling 19 seats short of a
majority.

Conservatives: 307

Labour:255

Liberal Democrats: 59

Other: 29

9.56pm (DT)I love Guido's line: "Tonight Labour will become, not make, history."
But what would it take for that prediction to come true? If Labour has twice as
many seats as the Lib Dems, albeit with a lower share of the popular vote, how
does that make them history? I read so many death notices for the Labour Party
when I was a student in the 1980s that I'm sceptical. Another question: what
will it take for the Liberal Democrats to fail to make history? If they very
narrowly beat Labour in the popular vote but fall well short of 100 seats, Lib
Dems claims of mould-breaking will sound a bit hollow.

9.54pm (RC) Talking of polls, they've been all over the place this election,
perhaps reflecting the volatility and uncertainty among voters. Complicating
matters is that - as Toby Young argues in his useful bluffer's guide - the
figure for the national swing isn't the greatest guide, given the various
regional battles, and the three-way Con-Lib, Con-Lab, Lib-Lab tussles.

9.52pm                     Harry Mount writes on his blog that the Lack of
election fever shows how strong British democracy still is:

The lack of excitement at electionsshows how deeply embedded the democratic
process is in Britain. No need to wave a finger dipped in purple ink in the air;
no need to queue at 3 in the morning; no thrill in the air at my polling station
in a pretty Victorian primary school.

9.50pm Telegraph blogger - and lifelong Labour supporter -Tim Collard writes:

It's been a fairly good day for Labour in the Tory target seat of Lancaster and
Fleetwood. Getting the vote out here can feel like getting blood out of a stone,
but it's absolutely crucial, and our hearts sank as grey clouds started massing
in late afternoon. Fortunately a great big beaming socialist sun same out at 7
p.m. and our figures started perking up.

For some reason the count here doesn't start until 9 a.m. tomorrow. Our chairman
can't understand it. "Western Isles are counting on the night. Orkney and
Shetland are counting on the night." But the poor dears are just too tired. And
there isn't even a concurrent council election.

9.42pm (WH) The big story of the day - which was nearly a tragedy - was the
plane crash involving former UKIP leader Nigel Farage.Daniel Hannan writes on
his blog that Farage "always hated flying".

9.39pm Fraser Nelson, editor of the Spectator, tweets optimistically:

Beautiful red sky over London tonight. Perfect prelude to blue dawn.

9.33pm  (RC) David Cameron has been criticised over the past few weeks for
failing to establish a clear lead over Labour, but let's not forget what a
mountain the Tories had to climb - because of the distribution of seats, he
needs the largest swing to the Tories since the war to get the barest majority.

In fact, even if Labour gets 5 per cent less of the vote, it could still have
more seats. Of course, this imbalance is far worse for the Lib Dems - as I've
written before, on a crude calculation they need 13 per cent more of the vote to
get the same number of seats as Labour.

Hence Charles Moore's mischievous report in the Spectator that if they come
second in the popular vote, and Labour third, the Lib Dems are planning to storm
the Commons Chamber and claim the benches normally occupied by the official
Opposition.

9.20pm The three party leaders have voted. If you haven't, you have 40 minutes
until polling stations close...

9.00pm (WH) It's just one hour until the until the joint BBC/ITN/Sky exit poll
is released. And, aside from the result, the question on everyone's lips is
this: will it be as accurate as the 2005 exit poll, which accurately predicted
Labour's 66 seat majority. Unlikely,John Curtice of Strathclyde
Universitysuggests in his paper Exit polling in a cold climate: the
BBC-ITVexperience in Britain in 2005. He writes:

Never before in the historyof exit polling in Britain has the overall majority
been predicted with such accuracy. Such an exact forecast of the headline
majority could not of course have been made without a fair measure of luck.since
many House of Commons seats are very closely contested.

(H/TChris Giles)

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 8, 2010 Saturday 12:56 PM GMT

We Eurosceptics fail at the polls - again

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 497 words


Yet again, a largely Eurosceptic country has elected a largely pro-Brussels
legislature. A senior UKIP friend has run the figures, and tells me that UKIP
cost the Tories 17 seats. If so, UKIP has probably let the Lib Dems into office:
with five Sinn Fein MPs refusing to take their seats, 323 Conservative MPs would
have constituted a bare majority.

Many of my regular commenters will read no further, and will fill the section
that follows with angry screeds to the effect that Cameron and Clegg are as bad
as each other, that neither wants to leave the EU, that it's all a Lib-Lab-Con
etc etc. But that's not my point. In any general election, people can vote from
whatever motives they please, and I've never been in the business of blaming the
electorate.

No, my argument is a different one, and it has to do with how our constitution
works. A rift has opened between Parliament and people on the issue of European
integration. As in every other country in the EU, MPs are more pro-Brussels than
their constituents. In France, 89 per cent of deputies voted for the European
Constitution, but only 46 per cent of voters. In the Netherlands, those figures
were 92 per cent and 37 per cent, in Ireland 91 per cent and 47 per cent. Here,
the handful of Conservative candidates who ran on an explicitly anti-EU ticket -
Philip Davies, Philip Hollobone, Mark Reckless, Douglas Carswell - were rewarded
with vast swings.

We need to find ways to align la Grande Bretagne officielle with laGrande
Bretagne profonde. Lib Dems are quick with their solution: proportional
representation. But PR, as practised in most of Europe, makes the rift even
wider, concentrating power in the hands of party leaders, not local voters.
While it is possible to envisage a voting system more representative than our
current one, it is also possible to envisage many worse options.

There are, however, several ways to make politicians more responsive: ideas
first set out in The Plan, which have since found their way into the
Conservative and Lib Dem programmes. These include recall mechanisms, citizens'
initiative procedures, open primaries, fewer quangos, and end to prime
ministerial patronage powers, and more use of referendums. By all means let
proponents of a new voting system come up with a system that would represent a
clear improvement on the present one. (Roy Jenkins' idea, AV Plus, is not an
option, being more or less explicitly designed to produce Lib-Lab coalitions.)
But, in the mean time, let's push ahead with other ideas that would diffuse and
democratise power.

Let's start with a referendum on EU membership. If the Lib Dems want a
plebiscite on the voting system, fine: referendums are always and everywhere a
good thing, serving to remind politicians that they work for the rest of us. But
it would be preposterous to hold a referendum on how we handle the few powers
that Brussels has left us, without first holding a vote on whether EU law should
have primacy in the United Kingdom.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 8, 2010 Saturday 11:51 AM GMT

The Tories will lose the next election if they enter into a coalition with the
tainted Lib Dems

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 562 words


What a mess!What an unholy mess!The unloseable election against the worst
government in British history finishes in talks to establish the terms on which
the losers' party with only 23 per cent of the votes and only 57 seats
mightgraciously allow the party with 36 per cent of the votes and 307 seats to
form a government.

This was the election in which the poisonous legacy of Blair's NuLab plan forthe
irreversible change of Britain claimed another victim.

This kingdom, the mother country of modern democracy,is now shown up as
incompetent evenin managing an election. Not since the Reform Acts of the 19th
century have we turned away electorsby the hundred from the polls nor been faced
with widespread allegations of ballot rigging even in our capital city.

As I say, what an unholy, unmitigatedmess. And to cap it all, the leader of the
party which should have walked away with a massive majority overa government
whose reckless spending haslanded us withGreek-style debtsis engaged in talks
with the losing third party over the terms on which he might be allowed to form
a government.

In my view Mr Cameron should make it plain that while he would be willing to
form a government and would welcome support from any party, he wouldoffer no
hostages, nor concessions as a condition of office.

If that sent off Mr Clegg to do a deal with his soulmates in a Lib Dem-NuLab
arrangement or coalition, so be it.It could not last long, for at the most it
would only delay NuLab a trifleon the path to economic disaster whichit has
pursued these last 13 years.

This Parliament will not last its potential five-year span. This election did
not complete the purge of the sickness of New Labour.It is the next election
which will decide the fate of the country - and the Conservative Party will not
win that election if itis taintedwith the contamination of coalition with a
party which puts the interests of Our Masters in Brussels ahead of the interests
of the British people.

Mr. Cameron's priority may beto get into No 10.What matters to the rest of us is
what he would do when he got there.

I am sorry that in the midst of this fast-moving political soap opera I have not
been able to take up the many comments posted here. None the less, they have
made interesting reading. In particular I should thank the very many of you who
owned up to taking my advice to vote Conservative to rid us of NuLab,
particularly those like 'Robert Eve' whose heart said vote UKIP but head said
vote Tory.And poor 'bionic raspberry'! What a dilemma in a Plaid Cymru seat. Who
would not vote UKIP as a gesture of defiance?

I am still left puzzled by those who keep on about how dreadful the Thatcher
years were, without being able to explain why she kept polling more votes than
Blair ever did, or Brown, or Clegg, or even, bless me, Mr Cameron has.

'Robinson' tried to explain to me something that he thought I might have missed
despite being a Trade Minister for three years.Yes, I did know that some aid is
tied to the purchase of British goods and services.But I wonder if he has ever
thought that when times are hard that money might be better spent buying goods
and services to be used here rather than in China.

Finally, might I say to some of you that a goodargument is seldom enhanced by
puerileor vulgar abuse and a bad one is made even worse.

In what interesting times we live, I am sorry to say.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

election watch

BYLINE: Caitlin Moran

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 1285 words


10

DOWN TUKIP

Election Watch loves a headline that conveys an emotional rollercoaster
back-story. In this respect, then, EW's favourite headline of the election was
the BBC's "UKIP regrets 'Blow Up Iran' quote." It's got it all. You can
practically see the sweat on the party spokesman's upper lip as he made that
first, painful phonecall: "Er, you know that interview we did this morning?"

As an extra thrill, there's the rank unfeasibility of the plan in the first
place. Let's face it - UKIP consists of three mad old Bufton-Tuftons, a dog
(presumably fairly uninformed) and Bob Spink. Blow Up Iran? A more realistic
aim, EW suspects, would be "Blow Up Ian".

9 UP STONY

Blair The press might have greeted Tony Blair's late entry into Labour's
campaign as a cross between The Fonz arriving going "Ayyyyye!", and Jack
Nicholson shouting "Here's Johnny!", but one sector of the media happy to see
him was the US production team for Dancing with the Stars. They want the former
Prime Minister for the next series, and have already offered him £250,000.

The executive producer, Conrad Green, said: "Tony, you've done everything you
can as PM, you've done your bit for the Middle East - now come and put on your
sequins!" Not even EW is so addled as to believe that Blair will really do the
show. But now we know the marketplace, we can work backwards to conclude that
the SNP's Mike Weir could definitely get Hole in the Wall.

8 DOWN The xx

Look at the xx. Just look at them. The kind of pallid, rat-haired, Marlboro
Menthol-smoking, critically acclaimed, posturally ruined alt-rock sulkers EW has
spent its life adoring. Let's imagine, for a minute, what would be their
ultimate nightmare scenario - more so even than their mums coming into their
bedrooms, and opening a window. That's right: a week in which David Cameron
revealed that he liked "daytime cuddles", and Samantha revealed her favourite
band is the xx. This means that the xx album, widely regarded as one of the
classic shagging albums of the past ten years, is the soundtrack to Tory
"afternoon delight". EW expects the xx to implode in self-loathing by Monday.

7 DOWN

Philippa Stroud

You know you're dealing with the Best Election Ever when bizarre allegations
emerge that the Tory candidate for Sutton &Cheam, Philippa Stroud, conducted
exorcisms on teenage lesbians. Awlright! This is even better than, like, Neil
Kinnock falling over in the sea that time!

As a living embodiment of the phrase "a live one", Stroud founded a church that
some former members claim tried to "cure" homosexuals by "driving out their
demons". "The session ended with her and others praying over me, calling out the
demons," one young woman said.

While Stroud, who lost to a Lib Dem, denies that she thinks homosexuality is an
illness, EW just has to say: AMAZING. It would LOVE to see a politician with the
kind of self-belief to take on Michelangelo, Tchaikovsky, Alexander the Great,
or the one in the hat from Scissor Sisters, and "un-gay" them.

YOU GO, GIRLFRIEND!

6 UP

The future

"We're talking about the future of our country. We're not talking about who is
going to be the next presenter of a TV game show," Gordon Brown said of Nick
Clegg last week, in much the way EW sniffily repudiates women with naturally
unmottled legs. But what show would Clegg present? Going for Gold Tie? The Great
Clegg Race? Sale of The Centre-y? 5DOWN ntUKIP plane EW hopes (while wishing the
occupants a speedy recovery) that you enjoy the simplicity and beauty of this
joke.

4 DOWN The Queen

Election Watch isn't sure who is allowed to be political during an election. It
knows that the Queen can't be, obviously - although what are the chances that
the ruling member of the aristocracy is a raving Marxist? Using its
Establishment Calculator, EW calculates that there are "none chances".
Similarly, newsreaders must be impartial, and it would be weird if anyone on
CBBC started shouting about the Lisbon treaty's "ratchet clauses".

But whither Lego? Is Lego allowed to be political? In Legoland Windsor this week
the Lego Downing Street had a Lego Nick Clegg and Lego David Cameron appear,
carrying a Lego Gordon Brown out of No 10. Is this the start of Early Learning
satire? When do the Weebles start being sarcastic? EW NEEDS TO KNOW.

3 DOWN BBC News

Graphics Department While a number of phrases battled it out as the Election
2010 catchphrase - "I agree with Nick," "Big Society", "What IS Big Society?",
"Get real!", "These two" and "If the Tories get in again, I'm going to kill
myself" - the most widely used was "hung Parliament". It was "hung Parliament"
here, there and everywhere. Given its omnipresence, it was a moment of
grammatical tragedy when the BBC chose to illustrate this concept by wheeling a
gigantic polystyrene Big Ben to Parliament Square, and hanging it from a noose.

No, no, dears ... that would be a "hanged Parliament", which isn't the phrase at
all. Big Ben is also not Parliament; no decisions are made in a clocktower. Of
course, it's not the clocktower that's called Big Ben anyway - just the bell
inside. EW must now leave to push its glasses up its nose, and have a weak lemon
drink.

2DOWN nt Nick Clegg's foot Election Watch doesn't like to be a Cassandra, it
really doesn't - not least because she was the dreariest of the characters in
Only Fools and Horses - but it sees terrible times ahead for Nick Clegg and his
celebrity supporters. Well, Clegg and one of his new celebrity supporters: Colin
Firth, aka Mr Darcy.

Regular readers of our sister column, Celebrity Watch, will know that Firth is
an unexpected source of trouble. On the set of Mamma Mia!, he inspired the
impressionable Amanda Seyfried, 24, to get a tattoo on her foot. What was the
tattoo of? A lovely, significant dolphin, perhaps, or maybe something wise in
Chinese. Like "wise". Or "Chinese". No. It was the word "minge".

Well. EW doesn't want to cast aspersions on either Clegg's ability to hold his
beer or Firth's levels of gentlemanliness, but it is a worry that by 2am on the
first Liberal Democrat post-election minibreak, Firth will be coming out of a
tattoo parlour, accompanied by a tipsy Clegg - who will have a newly inked
"BUMHOLE" on his heel.

1 UP Sex

"We're all at sixes and sevens here," David Dimbleby - the doyen of election
broadcasters - admitted at 3am yesterday, during what posterity will surely mark
as the "WTF?" election.

And he was right. Instead of the customary procession of electoral candidates'
"sad loser faces" and "jubilant winner faces", feeds to town halls across
Britain merely registered thousands and thousands of party workers counting on
their fingers and saying ridiculous things such as: "Well, if David Cameron
became Prime Minister, Vince Cable could be Chancellor, and then Peter Mandelson
could go to the Foreign Office", as if forming a coalition government was like
working out who should play guitar in Band Aid: the Edge or Gary Kemp.

Given this maelstrom of confusion, Britain's response was that of humanity
through the ages when faced with uncertainty: perving. With no real results
coming through until 3am, most viewers used Election Night 2010 to rub their
thighs at the TV and go: "Phwoargh."

Channel 4 was off to a roaring start with its alternative election night, in
which only Jimmy Carr's objectionable bum-face marred an otherwise faultless
procession of totty: David Mitchell, Lauren Laverne and Charlie Brooker, whose
new, louche, "permed-Elvis" quiff has the potential to change the parameters of
men's hair in the 21st century. Over on the BBC, meanwhile, the phrase "Miliband
sandwich" became common viewer parlance. The Miliband brothers have this kind of
... sex chimp thing going on. It makes EW want to get zoo-y with them.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

In the echoing halls of election night, it seems the rich aren't that different

BYLINE: Libby Purves

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 789 words


In the drab echoing halls where votes are counted, a hundred tiny moments cut
through the muddle and tedium of the longest night and make you smile for
democracy. Mine came in Richmond FE college sports hall, sometime after 5am.

In a corner, on a hard plastic chair behind a coffee machine, resting her head
on the bare brick wall sat the 72-year-old Lady Annabel Goldsmith, icon of
bygone nightclub glamour and widow of a choleric billionaire, now waiting
patient and exhausted as a spent racehorse. At her feet, Manolos kicked off and
eyes fixed on her in daughterly concern, sat Jemima Khan, a newer generation's
upmarket pin-up.

The youngest brother Ben, meanwhile, stared hopelessly for the third hour
running at the drinks machine, wondering which of the unbroken buttons might
produce something drinkable (easy: none. The café had closed at two. You never
saw so many journalists crazed with caffeine-deprivation). The whole family had
been at the count most of the night supporting Zac Goldsmith, maverick
environmentalist and surprising Conservative candidate for Richmond Park. It
must have been the greatest assembly of killer cheekbones ever reflected in the
battered plastic fascia of that student vending machine. Even in Richmond.

The Goldsmiths weren't confident, not at all. Zac, breezing round the count
since midnight smiling courteously at every colour of rosette, was frankly
gasping at his 4,000 majority over the sitting MP, Susan Kramer. "I thought it
was really, really close. Didn't expect this at all." The sitting MP,
incidentally, was not sighted in the hall until minutes before the declaration,
perhaps aware of the potential indignity of being ignored while the press
followed the young Apollo round, gazing up like baby birds and clicking
adoringly. She had fought a bruisingly personal campaign and had been dubbed an
"attack dog" . Jemima, reluctantly posing for the cameras arm-in-arm with her
little brother the MP, glanced back at the quiet matriarch of their clan and
said: "My mother has been out canvassing three hours a day, for ages. She's 72,
it's astonishing".

"Well, I did it for Jimmy too, when he was so ill," said Sir James's widow,
wearily happy it was over. "The Referendum Party. It's so difficult. Feels as if
you're intruding."

She was glad to leave. "My poor dogs didn't know what was happening, I never go
out in the middle of the night." Easy to laugh, yet there is something
touchingly human about any family gathering round a first-time candidate, unsure
whether to hope, buffeted by brash media. And it is a pleasingly levelling sight
to see such a rich, privileged, easy-living tribe spending all night sitting
humbly and politely, awaiting the verdict of thirty thousand strangers in booths
with pencil-stubs on strings . There must have been a hundred such moments on
that weird and Dimble-baffling election night. It felt for once as if everything
was up for grabs: whispers and gasps circulated. Here a popular Lib Dem
skewered, there a no-hoper storming a citadel; ministers falling or surviving
against the odds, Luton snubbing St Esther, Lembit Öpik felled by a surprise
electoral asteroid shower, and everybody gathering round UKIP rosette-wearers
inquiring in genuine anxiety about Nigel Farage.

And almost the best thing was that the soothsayers and pundits were so wrong. It
wasn't a furiously apathetic low turnout: it was a modern record, with voting
slips running out and scuffles in the polling queue. It wasn't all about
disillusioned protest votes favouring the fringe parties: the voters confounded
prediction by going for real possibilities. The vaunted Lib-Dem bubble sank, as
one alarmed tweeter put it, "like a brick in milk".

The BNP and UKIP tanked, and apart from the Green in Brighton, rarely have the
minor parties had such dismissive votes - many under 1,000. Nobody was
particularly amused by the Equality for the Undead Party, or the Birthday Party,
or others that normally provide light relief. On May 6, 2010, the electorate got
serious.

So now it is the politicians' turn to do the same, and to put aside pride and
tribalism. Back to Zac Goldsmith, happily shocked by his famous victory and
struggling to be civil to ten competing microphones and cameras. Will he give
the Tory whips trouble, I asked? Will he stick to his guns in a hung Parliament,
if it means voting against the party whose rosette he wears, and through which
he has vowed to "weave a green thread" ? "Oh yes" he said, unblinking amid the
flashbulbs. "If it's a good idea I'll vote for it, wherever it comes from".

Well. It may not happen. But just for a second it felt like a blithe new dawn.
Clearly, I need some sleep.

It must have been the greatest assembly of killer cheekbones

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Manolos kicked off, Jemima Khan waits with her mother for the
declaration

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Consolation for Labour in town hall polls

BYLINE: Jill Sherman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 92

LENGTH: 372 words


Labour found much-needed solace yesterday in the local election results by
gaining eight councils and at least 240 seats.

With final results still coming in last night, Labour was the only party to make
net gains in elections to 166 authorities, including all 32 London boroughs.

The Conservatives were on course to lose eight councils and more than 80 seats.
Significantly, the party lost Bury in Greater Manchester - a key Tory gain in
2006 - Mole Valley in Surrey and Brentwood in Essex, all to no overall control.
The Liberal Democrats also had a disappointing result with the loss of at least
two councils, Liverpool and Rochdale, and 62 seats.

Labour workers were delighted, however, when the party exceeded all expectations
by seizing control in Coventry, Doncaster, Liverpool, Enfield, Hartlepool and
Oxford. At the beginning of the election campaign the party was expected to make
about 100 gains, rising from a low base in the last set of similar election
results in 2006.

As the TV debates started dominating the campaign it seemed more likely that the
Lib Dems would be the biggest gainers and workers on the ground were claiming
that "Cleggmania" had also infiltrated councils.

Yesterday's results painted a different picture.

Labour, which suffered a haemorrhageing of council seats over the past five
years, picked up seats all over the country from the Conservatives and the Lib
Dems.

The Tories, who did very well in 2006, expected to make some losses but they
will be disappointed in their performance in some of Labour's northern
heartlands, where they had started making inroads.

The Lib Dems, who had hoped to seize a handful of London councils and one or two
outside the capital, were equally crestfallen. The Clegg factor, on which
everyone had pinned their hopes, failed to play for them nationally or locally.

Labour was delighted after making a clean sweep of seats in Barking and
Dagenham, taking all 51 places to retain control of the London borough. The
previous council included 12 members of the BNP, two Conservatives, and a
handful of independents. The BNP failed to make any gains and lost 22 seats
across the country while UKIP, a victor in the European and local elections last
year, also lost five seats.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tick-tock of the election

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3,4,5,6,7,8,9,11,12,13,14,15,17,19,20,21,22,23

LENGTH: 1530 words


22.00

Polls close. Exit poll puts Tories on 307 seats, Labour on 255 and Lib Dems on a
surprisingly low 59

22.30

Arnold Schwarzenegger "Just called @davidcameron to congratulate him on victory"

22.35

Harriet Harman seems to reach out to the Lib Dems: "A lot of people are saying
we need to change the voting system"

22.40

Reports of people being turned away from polling booths. A disenfranchised mob
gathers outside Nick Clegg's house to complain

22.55

First result: Labour hold Houghton & Sunderland South, which prides itself on
its early declarations. Students speed ballot boxes along human chains

23.12

Lord Mandelson stays positive: "Many people have turned away from the Labour
Party but what they haven't done is fly into the arms of the Conservatives"

23.53

Protesters hold sit-ins in Hackney and block transfers of ballot boxes in
Sheffield - angry at being unable to vote because of 10pm queues

23.59

Iain Dale "Incredible that the Lib Dems are only predicted 59 seats. I'll run
naked down Whitehall if that turns out to be true"

00.00

Graham Linehan

"As the saying goes, 'Widdecombe frown, don't get too down. Widdecombe smile,
hide in bed for a while' "

00.17

Counting is suspended in Londonderry after a suspicious vehicle is abandoned
outside. Bomb disposal experts are called

00.29

Kenneth Clarke says that it is the end for the Prime Minister: "The one
certainty is that Gordon Brown has been removed from office"

00.50

Peter Robinson, Northern Ireland's First Minister and the DUP leader, has lost
his seat in Belfast East to the Alliance Party

01.10

Kingswood is the first Conservative gain. "It's very disappointing," says Ed
Miliband, of the 9.4 per cent swing

01.37

Gordon Brown holds Kirkcaldy, with 30,000 votes. He says there's "no greater
privilege than to serve in Parliament the people you have grown up with" in what
sounds close to a concession speech

01.50

Guildford, the Liberal Democrats' top target seat, has been retained by the
Conservatives

02.25

Lembit Öpik loses Montgomeryshire: "In politics you have to be willing to
contemplate the possibility of defeat"

02.30

Philip Schofield

"Bye-bye Lembit Öpik!!! Now that''s cheeky :)"

02.40

"This is not a country with a Conservative majority," says Alastair Campbell.
"We're looking at a hung Parliament"

03.05

David Cameron secures his own seat of Witney and says: "The Labour Government
has lost its mandate to govern"

03.39

Chris Addison "Still to come: Dimbleby demanding George Alagiah keep a bottle of
Châteauneuf-du-Pape up his shirt until it reaches acceptable drinking
temperature"

03.45

Britain's first two female Asian MPs are elected in rapid succession. Shabana
Mahmood in Birmingham Ladywood then Priti Patel in Witham

03.55

The Liberal Democrats fail in Oxford East - fourth on their target list - as it
becomes clear that the 10pm exit poll is startlingly accurate

04.10

The women of Rochdale stay true to Labour, but did Gillian Duffy vote?

04.32

The country is denied a new "Portillo moment" as Ed Balls, the Schools
Secretary, holds out, winning by 1,100 votes: "I must say it was quite close"

04.34

Esther Rantzen, the most prominent celebrity candidate of the campaign, is
crushed in Luton South, winning fewer than 2,000 votes

04.42

Shahid Malik loses his Dewsbury seat to the Conservatives, Labour's biggest
casualty so far...

04.50

... until Jacqui Smith is defeated in Redditch. She thanks her husband, who
ordered porn with taxpayers' money, for his "unfailing support"

05.00

Charles Clarke, another former Labour Home Secretary, and critic of Gordon
Brown, loses his seat in Norwich South to the Liberal Democrats. He looks
furious

05.22

Joanne Cash, a Cameron A-lister, fails to take Westminster North after Labour's
support in the capital holds up

05.35

A third former Labour Home Secretary makes the news. This time it's David
Blunkett, saying that Labour has clearly lost the election

05.52

Caroline Lucas becomes the first Green MP by taking Brighton Pavilion from
Labour

06.00

Robert Llewellyn tweets: "When I heard news about Brighton Pavilion, Caroline
Lucas as 1st Green MP. I gave a gentle, energy-conserving cheer"

07.15

The pound is at its lowest level against the dollar for a year. Is Greece or the
hung Parliament to blame?

07.35

The Tories will negotiate. "We are ready to talk to other parties to make sure
we can proceed on the most stable foundations," says Michael Gove

07.45

Guido Fawkes "Gordon Brown said to be nailing down doors in SW1 hideout,
shouting 'You'll never take me alive, posh boy' "

08.00

David Schneider "So far this morning I've got a paper cut and the kettle has
broken. Life under the Tories. Don't say I didn't warn you"

08.28

Glenda Jackson holds Hampstead for Labour - by 42 votes. Conservatives now have
287 seats, Labour 240, Lib Dems 51

08.41

The country's first-past-the-post system, Lord Mandelson claims, "is on its last
legs"

09.30

The National Union of Students says: "Where students and others have been
disenfranchised, local authorities should hang their heads in shame"

09.37

Chris Addison "CBeebies' exit poll turns out to have been vastly inaccurate.
Big, furry, costume heads will roll"

09.49

A hung Parliament is now inescapable - even if the Conservatives gain all the
remaining seats, they cannot win a majority

10.14

Nicola Blackwood, a trained opera singer and the new Conservative MP for Oxford
West & Abingdon, fulfils her first election pledge by singing on the radio after
defeating the Lib Dems' Evan Harris

10.20

David Miliband "Just woken up to hear someone on BBC saying I was talking to
vince cable. Nonsense! I've been having a kip!"

10.33

Mr Brown releases a statement: "As I said last night, it is my duty as Prime
Minister to take all steps to ensure Britain has a strong, stable and principled
government"

10.43

Mr Clegg says that he will talk first to the party with the most seats - the
Conservatives

10.50

Armando Iannucci "During his chat, Brown promised Gillian Duffy a casting vote.
This will now come into play"

12.19

Gabriela Irimia, of the Cheeky Girls, says of her defeated former lover Lembit
Öpik: "The voters have lost a dedicated man who cared for his constituency and
the people in it. It was his life"

12.28

Jo Johnson, younger brother of the Mayor of London, wins the safe Tory seat of
Orpington. Can Mr Cameron cope with two Johnsons?

12.40

Labour takes back Bethnal Green & Bow with 42.9 per cent of the vote, five years
after the seat was lost to George Galloway and the Respect Party

13.42

Gordon Brown speaks from Downing Street, saying that he respects "the position
of Mr Clegg in stating that he wishes first to make contact" with Mr Cameron.

14.35

Mr Cameron announces he wants a partnership with the Lib Dems. He says: "I want
to make a big, open and comprehensive offer to the Liberal Democrats"

14.40

After several minutes of warm words, Mr Cameron reaches the sticking point of
electoral reform: "The Liberal Democrats have their ideas. We have our ideas"

14.54

In Lancashire police launch an investigation into how Alfie McKenzie, 14, from
Carleton, managed to vote in Wyre & Preston North

15.08

A defiant Nigel Farage passes a message from his hospital bed: "I assure UKIP
voters and supporters that although we have lost this battle, the war carries
on"

15.32

Sinn Féin's Michelle Gildernew hangs on by her fingernails in Fermanagh & South
Tyrone. Only four votes separate her from the independent Rodney Connor

16.21

Sir John Major says that Gordon Brown's attempt to hold on to power is
"beginning to look undignified"

16.55

William Hague is asked if Lib Dems could be offered Cabinet posts. "David
Cameron hasn't excluded that possibility," he says

17.00

Paul Waugh "The nation flirted with him but in the end sd: 'I don't agree with
Nick'. Tonight, the big Q is 'Who does *Nick* agree with?'."

17.01

William Hague announces that Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg have spoken on the phone
and will have further talks over the weekend

17.28

Lord Steel of Aikwood's mobile phone goes off live on the BBC - amid the
uncertainty, broadcasters are scrabbling for talking heads

17.46

Final results: Conservatives 306 seats (net gain of 97); Labour 258 seats (net
loss of 91); Lib Dems: 57 seats (net loss of 5)

17.47

Sally Bercow, the Speaker's wife, loses her attempt to win a Labour seat on
Westminster Council

17.52

Billy Bragg "It's official - the BNP have been wiped out in Barking & Dagenham.
Lost every seat"

18.05

Caitlin Moran "I hope this all comes down to hand-to-hand combat, man to man,
naked, in a barn, like God intended"

18.20

Liberal Democrat-Conservative negotiations will be attended by Osborne, Hague,
Letwin and Llewellyn for the Tories and Huhne, Alexander, Stunell and Laws for
the Lib Dems

18.22 Ed

Miliband said that he "recognised the verdict of the people" but suggested that
Britain's voting system was "creaking"

18.50

Jenny Watson, chairwoman of the Electoral Commission, calls the voting system
Victorian. She says the chaos of Thursday night will "never happen again"

18.52

UK Labour The party claims that "A record-breaking no of people joined the
Labour Party today. 1,000% increase on usual daily rate"

19.02

A local election in Great Yarmouth ends in a tie. Charlie Marsden, Labour,
unseats his Conservative opponent after the winner is determined by drawing from
a pack of cards

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 8, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Injured Farage loses battle with Speaker

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 159 words


As Nigel Farage, the first man to contest the Speaker's seat in England since
the 1980s, drifted in and out of consciousness, nursing broken ribs and a
chipped sternum in hospital, a few miles away John Bercow was returned as MP for
Buckingham.

Mr Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence Party, had been due in
Aylesbury Civic Centre yesterday to hear the result after a campaign that had
focused on the Speaker's expenses. But after a crash on Thursday morning in a
light aircraft, the former commodities broker and his seriously injured pilot
were absent.

Had Mr Farage been able to leave the John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, he would
have heard that he had won 8,401 votes, ranking him third after Mr Bercow, a
Conservative - who secured 22,860 - and John Stevens, an independent, who won
10,331. Almost 1,000 ballot papers were spoilt, with many voters angry at the
convention that blocks main parties from fielding candidates against the
Speaker.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

I JUST HOPE THAT THE PLANE DOESN'T CRASH

BYLINE: BY MICHAEL SEAMARK AND ANDY DOLAN

LENGTH: 1005 words


WHAT UKIP'S NIGEL FARAGE JOKED MOMENTS BEFORE THIS HAPPENED...

BLOOD streaming down his face, party rosette still attached to his pinstriped
suit, Nigel Farage is dragged from the wreckage of a light aircraft.

The flight was to have been one final stunt on election day for the flamboyant
Ukip candidate - and it was almost the last thing he ever did.

Barely an hour after polling stations opened, the MEP, standing against Commons
Speaker John Bercow in one of the key Westminster parliamentary battles, planned
to fly over the Buckingham constituency towing a Ukip banner.

Pulling on a cigarette before climbing into the two-seater aircraft at a rural
airfield, the controversial politician had joked: 'I just hope the plane doesn't
blow up and crash.' Shortly after take-off the single-engined plane nosedived
into the grass at 70mph.

The cockpit crumpled on impact, the engine sheared off and the plane flipped
over on its roof. Mr Farage was found in the wreckage saying: 'I'm scared, I'm
scared, I'm scared.'

Both men were left still strapped in, bent double and face down under the
wrecked aircraft.

Yet astonishingly, both 46-year-old Mr Farage and pilot Justin Adams - whose
shoes were torn off with the force of the crash - escaped without
life-threatening injury. In hospital last night, the politician said: 'We've
both had a miraculous escape. We are both very lucky to be alive.'

First reports suggest the outspoken Eurosceptic might literally have been caught
up in his own publicity. Witnesses say the banner, declaring 'Vote for your
country - Vote Ukip', apparently became tangled on the plane's tail fin as it
flew low across the airfield to provide photoopportunities to invited cameramen.

The cause of the accident is unlikely to be made public for months but industry
experts say if the heavy banner snagged the tailplane it could have pulled down
the aircraft's elevators - causing it to nosedive.

Mr Farage's campaign manager Chris Adams, visibly shaken as he visited the crash
site, said: 'We had a banner attached to the back of the plane which basically
got wrapped around the tail. The pilot had sent out a May Day signal and it
crash dived. I'm absolutely shocked and stunned to see how anyone got out of
that alive.'

Mr Farage, a twice-married father of four, was initially taken to the nearby
Horton General Hospital in Banbury but transferred to the John Radcliffe
Hospital in Oxford where he is likely to stay 'for a few days'. He broke two
ribs in the crash, chipped his spine and and might have damaged his sternum.

Mr Farage had already voted by post. The Buckingham result will be announced
today but there is no requirement for him to attend, whatever the result.

The pilot, who is in his early forties, was airlifted to Walsgrave Hospital,
Coventry. He had injuries to his leg and back but was expected to be discharged
from hospital today.

Never shy of publicity, Mr Farage had invited photographers to the small
Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield near Brackley, Northamptonshire, to take pictures
before the plane took off. It was the the third and final time he had taken part
in such a stunt during the election campaign. Both previous flights involved the
same plane, pilot and banner. The photo-opportunity had not started well, with
the pilot taking seven attempts to hook the plane to the banner, which was
tethered to a device on the ground.

When it finally engaged, the aircraft - a Polish designed and built PZL-104
Wilgar - circled for five minutes, giving ample opportunity for pictures, before
disaster struck.

Photographer Neil Hall said: 'One minute it was in the air, the next it was a
cloud of dust. It simply nosedived without any warning.

'I was horrified and drove across the airfield with his PR colleague, Duncan
Barkes, expecting to find two dead bodies.

'It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened. I could see
Nigel's leg sticking out, and feared he was dead. Then I heard him moaning "get
me out', 'get me out". We managed to pull

Nigel out. Blood was pouring from his mouth. I think he had cut his lip with his
tooth. He was dazed and confused. He was conscious but utterly scared. I'm
surprised he did not break his neck.

'When he got out he kept asking for his phone. I said, "Nigel, you're in shock"
and he just said, "I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared". He had a cigarette and
then felt a bit better. The pilot was conscious but had his legs trapped. Duncan
spoke to him and he said the banner had got caught in the tail.'

Mr Barkes said: 'Nigel's main concern when he was in the ambulance afterwards
was for the welfare of the pilot, who was trapped in the wreckage. Our thoughts
are with the family of the pilot today.'

Asked about how the incident might affect the party's campaign, he said: 'The
main thing today is the survival of two men. It's not about political points
today.'

Mr Bercow said: 'I was concerned to learn of this morning's crash. I wish Nigel
Farage and his pilot a full and speedy recovery.'

The plane is owned by Sky Banners Ltd, based in Dunsfold Park, near Guildford,
Surrey, and run by Mr Adams, an experienced commercial pilot. It charges between
6275 and 6350 an hour for towing a banner. This was not the first time it had
been involved in an accident. After dropping its banner, it crash landed in
August 2006 at Dunsfold Aerodrome, near Cranleigh, Surrey. Inspectors found that
the pitot tube, which measures airspeed, had come loose and the right front wing
spar had broken in the drama.

A crash report was unable to ascertain the cause of the incident. The plane had
a certificate of airworthiness valid until July 1, 2010. Mr Adams's sister-Helen
Authers, was at his bedside yesterday. She said: 'Justin is in no state to talk
at the moment. He has suffered a terrible ordeal.'

The crash is being investigated by the Air Accidents Investigation Branch
supported by Northamptonshire Police.

Detective Chief Inspector Martin Kinchin said: 'Looking at the wreckage behind
me, I think you can make your own judgment as to how lucky they were.'

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UKIP'S NIGE IN LUCKY ESCAPE

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 5 words


UKIP'S NIGE IN LUCKY ESCAPE PAGE 7

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

'QUOTE OF THE DAY..'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 13 words


"I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared!" UKIP's Nigel Farage when his plane crashed

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP'S NIGEL IN MIRACLE ESCAPE;
Plane crashes during election day stunt

BYLINE: TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 448 words


UKIP politician Nigel Farage said he was "lucky to be alive" last night after
his plane crashed during an election day stunt.

The MEP's light aircraft nosedived when a 15ft banner bearing a party slogan got
wrapped around its tail.

The aircraft went into freefall and smashed into a field, flipping upside-down.

Moments before the plane took to the skies at 8am yesterday, Farage had joked:
"I just hope it doesn't blow up and crash."

And it emerged that the plane was on its third flight of the day after
photographers had missed the photo-opportunity.

Pilot Justin Adams called an ambulance on his mobile from his side of the
wreckage.

Last night, former UKIP leader Farage said: "We've both had a miraculous escape.
We are both very lucky to be alive."

The "dazed and confused" politician was taken to hospital with two broken ribs,
a chipped spine and sternum damage.

Adams, 45, was taken to the major trauma centre at Coventry and Walsgrave
Hospital.

He suffered spinal injuries after the crash at Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield
near Brackley, Northants. Both men were last night recovering from "non-life
threatening" injuries.

Photographer Neil Hall was on the ground with UKIP spokesman Duncan Barkes at
the time of the crash. A passing cyclist also helped rescue Farage from the
wreckage. Snapper Neil said: "One minute it was in the air, the next it was a
cloud of dust. I was horrified.

"We drove across the airfield expecting to find two bodies.

"It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened.

"Blood was pouring from Nigel's mouth. I think he had cut his lip with his
tooth.

"He was dazed and confused. He just said 'I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared.'"

The Polish plane's banner to push the party's anti-Europe message read: "Vote
for your country - Vote UKIP."

Farage resigned his party leadership to stand against Commons Speaker John
Bercow in Buckingham, despite the convention that rival parties do not challenge
the Speaker.

Farage is to stay in Oxford's John Radcliffe Hospital for observation and will
not attend today's election count.

Bercow, 47, said: "I was concerned to learn of this morning's crash. I wish
Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy recovery."

UKIP spokesman Barkes said: "Nigel's main concern when he was in the ambulance
was the welfare of the pilot, who was trapped in the wreckage.

"The plane was on its roof. They were hung upside down."

Detective Chief Inspector Martin Kinchin, of Northants Police added: "Looking at
the wreckage, I think you can make your own judgment as to how lucky they were."

The Department of Transport's Air Accident Investigation Branch said last night
that it will look in to the incident.

tom.hutchison@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUT FOR THE COUNT: Farage is freed from the wreckage by a passerby.
Below: Bloodied with spokesman Duncan Barkes
Pictures: INS /NEIL HAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UKIP'S NIGEL IN MIRACLE ESCAPE;
Plane crashes during election day stunt

BYLINE: TOM HUTCHISON

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 445 words


UKIP politician Nigel Farage said he was "lucky to be alive" last night after
his plane crashed during an election day stunt.

The MEP's light aircraft nosedived when a 15ft banner bearing a party slogan got
wrapped around its tail.

The plane smashed into a field, flipping upside-down.

Moments before taking to the skies at 8am yesterday, Mr Farage had joked: "I
just hope it doesn't blow up and crash."

The "dazed and confused" politician was taken to Oxford's John Radcliffe
Hospital with two broken ribs, a chipped spine and sternum damage.

He is expected to be in hospital for several days.

The pilot, Justin Adams, 45, was taken to Coventry and Walsgrave Hospital.

He suffered spinal injuries in the crash at Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield near
Brackley, Northants.

He is said to be in a stable condition but will remain in hospital for
observation.

Last night, the former UKIP leader said: "We've both had a miraculous escape. We
are both very lucky to be alive."

Mr Farage's wife Kirsten was at his bedside earlier yesterday but has since
returned to their home in Westerham, Kent, to care for their two children.

Photographer Neil Hall was on the ground at the time of the crash and said: "One
minute it was in the air, the next it was a cloud of dust. I was horrified. We
drove across the airfield expecting to find two bodies.

"It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened.

"Blood was pouring from Nigel's mouth. I think he had cut his lip with his
tooth.

"He was dazed and confused. He just said: 'I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared.'"
The Polish-made plane's banner to push the party's anti-Europe message read:
"Vote for your country - Vote UKIP."

His spokesman Duncan Barkes said last night that Mr Farage was "shaken up",
adding: "He's just been worried about the pilot. Yes it's May 6, but today is
about people, not politics."

Mr Barkes added: "He is not going anywhere today. There is no way he will be at
the count."

UKIP leader Lord Pearson could now attend the count for the Buckingham seat,
which will be held today.

Lord Pearson said: "Despite being in considerable pain, we deduce that Nigel's
back to something like his normal form.

"He told UKIP's Banbury candidate Dr Sebastian Fairweather: 'Stop worrying about
me, get back out there and get out the vote.'"

Mr Farage resigned his party leadership to stand against Commons Speaker John
Bercow in Buckingham, despite the convention that rival parties do not challenge
the Speaker.

Mr Bercow, 47, said: "I was concerned to learn of this morning's crash. I wish
Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy recovery."

An investigation into the accident has been launched.

tom.hutchison@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUT FOR THE COUNT: Mr Farage is freed from the wreckage by a passerby.
Below, bloodied with spokesman Duncan Barkes
Pictures: INS /NEIL HAL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Last path the post; no final tally until May 27;
DELAYS

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 175 words


THE last election result will not be formally completed until almost the end of
the month, because voting in one seat has been delayed.

Thirsk and Malton in North Yorkshire will vote on May 27.

The poll was delayed because of the death in April of John Boakes, the UK
Independence Party candidate.

Because the campaign was formally under way at the time of his death the
constituency's vote was delayed to allow the party to select a new candidate.
The seat is expected to go to the Conservatives. Several other seats that the
Tories need to win for a Commons majority are not declaring their results until
today.

They include Cheltenham, where results are expected at noon.

Others are Warwick and Leamington, which ranks around 116 on the Conservative
target list, and Argyll and Bute, held by the Lib Dems in 2005.

Lancaster and Fleetwood, and Morcambe and Lunesdale will both report at around
3pm.

The last seat expected to declare today is Westmorland and Lonsdale, another Lib
Dem seat high on the Tory target list.

It will not declare until around 5pm.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Minister 'was acting illegally';
VOTING ROW

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 126 words


MARGARET HODGE was accused last night of breaking electoral law by allegedly
attempting to solicit votes in polling stations.

The UK Independence Party claimed that the Culture Minister had used "undue
influence" by speaking to voters inside venues.

Today, the party will lodge a formal complaint to the returning officer in Mrs
Hodge's constituency of Barking, east London, where she has been MP since 1994.

A spokesman for the Labour candidate dismissed the accusations as "ridiculous"
and said Mrs Hodge was simply saying "hello" to voters.

Kim Gandy, the agent for Frank Maloney, the Ukip candidate, said: "She was
inside the polling station openly chatting to voters. You do not do that. You do
not go in there and talk to voters. To me it is undue influence."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 5;
                                National Edition

BNP leader Griffin's bid falls short;
FAR RIGHT

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 131 words


NICK GRIFFIN, the leader of the British National Party, was defeated soundly in
his attempt to take Barking in east London.

Margaret Hodge, the Labour minister, held the mainly white, working-class
constituency, receiving 24,628 votes - over 16,000 more than any other
candidate. The leader of the far-Right party said the "hugely high" turnout of
61.8 per cent had counted against him.

But Mrs Hodge was accused of breaking electoral law by allegedly attempting to
solicit votes in polling stations.

The UK Independence Party will lodge a formal complaint, claiming that the
Culture Minister had used "undue influence" by speaking to voters inside venues.

A spokesman for the Labour candidate dismissed the accusations as "ridiculous"
and said Mrs Hodge was simply saying "hello" to voters.

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 4;
                                National Edition

Ukip's Farage 'lucky' to survice air crash;
AIR ACCIDENT

BYLINE: Richard Edwards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 551 words


NIGEL FARAGE, the former UK Independence Party leader, had an extraordinary
escape yesterday when his plane nosedived into a field during an election stunt.

The politician was pulled semi-conscious from the wreckage, muttering, "I'm
scared, I'm scared", witnesses said, his face swollen and blood running across
his cheek.

Police said that he and Justin Adams, the pilot, were "extremely lucky" to have
walked away with only minor injuries after the Ukip banner they were towing
apparently became tangled in the tail fin of their plane.

Mr Adams sent a Mayday signal as the plane went down.

His 46-year-old passenger, who is contesting Speaker John Bercow's seat in
Buckingham, was found suspended upside down in his cockpit seat, bent double.

Mr Farage was pulled from the wreckage dressed in a pinstripe suit with a Ukip
rosette still attached. In a statement last night, he said: "We've both had a
miraculous escape. We are both very lucky to be alive."

Minutes before the accident, as they prepared to take off from
Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield, near Brackley, Northants at 8am, he had joked: "I
just hope the plane doesn't blow up and crash."

They circled the airfield six times attempting to pick up the 15ft banner, which
carried the slogan "Vote for your country - Vote Ukip".

The seventh attempt succeeded and they were preparing to fly over
Buckinghamshire and Oxfordshire when the plane turned over and fell from the
sky. Neil Hall, a pho-tographer who rushed to help with a passing cyclist, said:
"His plane was about 10 metres off the ground when the banner became tangled in
the rear tail rudder, and it nosedived quickly into the ground.

"I was horrified and drove across the airfield expecting to find two dead
bodies. It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened. I could
see Nigel's leg sticking out, and feared he was dead. Then I heard him moaning
'Get me out, get me out'".

Mr Farage suffered two broken ribs, a small chip to his spine and a damaged
breastbone.

He was taken to a local hospital then to the John Radcliffe in Oxford where he
was met by his wife Kirsten. He is expected to be kept in for a few days and to
miss the count in Buckingham today.

His spokesman said he had been able to walk to the ambulance, and had
immediately asked for a cigarette. Justin Adams, an old boy of Radley in his
early forties with 25 years experience as a pilot, was taken to Walsgrave
Hospital in Coventry with leg and back injuries but his condition was not
life-threatening.

Mr Farage, a colourful MEP and the party's chief spokesman, gave up its
presidency to run against Mr Bercow who, as Speaker, is traditionally not
opposed. He had not cast his vote before the accident.

Mr Bercow said: "I wish Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy recovery."

Police are investigating and the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) has
started an inquiry.

The aircraft involved was a 15-year-old PZL-104 Wilga 35A, a Polish fixed-wing
plane often used for crop spraying.

The same aircraft was involved in another incident four years ago when it was
towing a banner and a wing spar broke, but it landed safely.

The plane had a certificate of airworthiness valid until July this year.

An AAIB spokesman con-firmed an investigation was under way and refused to
speculate on the cause of the crash.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A passer-by helps Nigel Farage from the wreckage of his plane after he
became trapped (above). Investigators began an inquiry into what went wrong
NEIL HALL/INS; DARREN STAPLES/REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The renegade Former Tory who left over Maastricht and called Europe's president
a damp rag

BYLINE: Caroline Gammell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 283 words


Nigel Farage likes to be seen smoking a cigarette and clutching a pint of real
ale.

Fond of being the Tory renegade, the former leader of Ukip has long been a
controversial figure. Born in April 1964, he was educated at Dulwich College and
pursued a career as a stockbroker in the City. He joined the Tory party at an
early age but left in 1992 when John Major signed the Maastricht Treaty.

A year later, he founded Ukip and in 1999 was elected as an MEP, before being
made its leader in 2006.

He stepped down from the top post in November to concentrate on fighting John
Bercow's seat. He has stood in three general elections as well as three
by-elections, including Bromley and Chislehurst in 2006, when he took 8 per cent
of the vote and beat Labour into fourth.

In 2004, he told the European Parliament that Jacques Barrot, the Commission
vice-president, had been convicted in France for embezzling public funds.

When it was reported that Mr Farage had received nearly £2million in expenses
and allowances over a decade in Brussels, he said it had been spent on promoting
Ukip's anti-EU message.

In 2006, he drove an armoured personnel carrier to the Tory spring conference,
to signify that his party was "parking its tank" on David Cameron's lawn.

He was fined by the European Parliament in March after describing Herman van
Rompuy, the new president of Europe, as a man with "all the charisma of a damp
rag". Despite his politics, Mr Farage's second wife, Kirsten Mehr, is German.
They have two daughters and he has two sons from his first marriage to Grainne
Hayes. In 2005, he was alleged to have had a fling with a Latvian woman, but
claimed he had simply fallen asleep at her house.

Caroline Gammell

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How did he get out alive?;
UKIP's Farage injured as plane crashes in election stunt

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 448 words


FORMER UKIP leader Nigel Farage had an amazing escape yesterday when his light
aircraft crashed as an election stunt went horribly wrong.

With blood dripping down his face, he was pulled semi-conscious from the
wreckage muttering "I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared".

The plane was towing a UKIP banner which is believed to have become caught in
the tail fin, causing the aircraft to plunge to the ground shortly after
take-off.

Speaking from his hospital bed last night, the 46-year-old Euro-MP said: "Both
the pilot and I had a miraculous escape and we are lucky to be alive."

Mr Farage was said to be stable. He has two broken ribs, a chipped spine and
damage to his sternum.

Pilot Justin Adams, who had to be cut from the wreckage, was airlifted to
hospital in Coventry but his injuries turned out not to be as serious as first
thought. He is expected to be allowed home today after treatment for an injured
foot.

The pair had taken off from Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield in Northamptonshire at
8am yesterday to fly over the Buckingham constituency where Mr Farage was
standing in the General Election against Commons Speaker John Bercow.

A UKIP spokesman said: "We have had reports that either the banner got snagged
up or there were crosswinds and it was an unfamiliar airfield to the pilot."

The Polish-built Wilga came to a halt upside down. Bent double and still
strapped into his seat, Mr Farage was found face down under the plane. He was
pulled from the wreckage wearing his trademark pinstripe suit, shirt and tie,
and a UKIP rosette.

Moments before take-off Mr Farage had smoked a cigarette and joked: "I just hope
the plane doesn't blow up and crash."

UKIP worker Duncan Barkes said: "One minute the plane was in the air, flying
with the banner over the airfield. It happened so quickly. The plane flipped
over on its top and we could see there were limbs moving. The pilot was very
clearly trapped."

Mr Farage's spokesman said: "As soon as he came out he wanted a cigarette. You
wouldn't expect anything else really."

He was taken to the Horton Hospital in Banbury, Oxfordshire, but later moved to
the bigger and better equipped John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford by ambulance
after doctors decided he needed specialist care. His wife Kirsten spent some
time at his bedside before returning home to Kent to look after their two
children.

Mr Farage's injuries will keep him from today's election count in Buckingham. He
is expected to be in hospital for a few days.

The Air Accident Investigation Branch has launched an inquiry into the crash.

Mr Farage gave up the leadership of UKIP last year to concentrate on his bid to
unseat Tory Mr Bercow, who last night wished him a "speedy recovery".

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage is dragged bleeding from the wreck by a passer-by, top,
and party worker Duncan Barkes, right. Inset, Farage joking before take-off
Pictures: INS/NEIL HALL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

QUOTE OF THE DAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 24 words


'Both the pilot and I had a miraculous escape and we are lucky to be alive'

UKIP CANDIDATE NIGEL FARAGE TALKS OF HIS DRAMATIC ELECTION DAY PLANE CRASH

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

UKIP Nigel's amazing escape

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 15 words


Nigel Farage lies injured after his plane crashed during an election stunt
yesterday

PAGE 3

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: NEIL HALL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: Decision time: The rituals of an X in a box - but this time it's
different: After a polite and familiar start to the day Oliver Burkeman observes
big queues at polling stations, fierce late campaigning and a social media
frenzy - all betraying the fact that this is a truly momentous political moment

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1671 words


On the surface, much was as you might have expected: the weather a mixture of
drizzle and sun, the party leaders tight-lipped and smiling as they cast their
votes, and almost everyone polite and well-behaved - including the protesters
who scaled the roof of David Cameron's polling stations, delaying his vote.

Yet beneath the playing-out of Britain's timeworn election day rituals was the
unmistakable sense of a political moment that, for once, mattered.

Fuelled by differing mixtures of passion, disillusionment and anger, and amid
anecdotal reports of unusually high turnouts, British voters seemed willing to
countenance the possibility that the standard politician's cliche - "this is the
most important election in a generation" - might actually, this time, be true.
The exit poll produced by the major broadcasters suggested the intense
engagement in the process would result in a hung parliament with the
Conservatives the largest party, Labour in second place and a far poorer Liberal
Democrat performance than had been predicted.

The beginning of election day was marked, around an hour after polls opened at
7am, by an event so bizarre that nobody could have ever have predicted it.

A light aircraft carrying the former leader of the UK Independence party, Nigel
Farage, nosedived and crashed into a Northamptonshire field, reportedly after
becoming entangled in the Ukip banner it was pulling. Yet Farage, who is running
against the Commons Speaker John Bercow in Buckingham, walked away from the
badly crumpled plane largely unscathed, his pilot also avoiding life-threatening
injury. "I am lucky to be alive," Farage said later, in what soon established
itself as the understatement of the day.

The hardline Eurosceptic's plane - a Polish-built aircraft, as was soon pointed
out - had apparently just taken off from Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield. It was
towing a banner reading "Vote for your country - vote Ukip", which party
officials said may have become entangled in the tailfin. The 46-year-old Farage
crawled from the wreck with blood streaming down his face, muttering: "I'm
scared, I'm scared, I'm scared." He was taken to a hospital in Banbury and later
transferred to Oxford's John Radcliffe hospital. The pilot, Justin Adams, was
airlifted to hospital in Coventry.

Forty-four million people were eligible to vote, and anecdotal reports of long
queues outside polling stations in London, Bristol, Liverpool and elsewhere
suggested that they were doing so in droves. Ladbrokes slashed their odds on
turnout reaching at least 70% - around 10% more than in the last two general
elections - from 15-8 to 5-4.

"Loads and loads of people will vote in this one," predicted London's mayor,
Boris Johnson. "I think this election campaign has delivered an amazing
rejoinder or rebuke to all those people who said young people weren't interested
in politics and that politics was leaving the people behind." Newspaper readers
had woken to the final strident efforts of many titles to elbow the result in
their preferred direction, at the end of an election campaign marked by panicky
attacks from the Conservative-supporting press against Nick Clegg, whose
unexpected rise dashed David Cameron's hopes of an easy path to victory.

Rupert Murdoch's Sun carried a cover image of Cameron as Barack Obama, with the
caption "Our only hope", while the Daily Mail used images of unrest in Athens to
imply that "anarchy and murder" might break out in Britain were the Tory leader
to be denied a decisive majority. The Labour-backing Mirror reproduced a
photograph of a youthful Cameron in bow tie and tails at Oxford University's
Bullingdon Club, even though the picture's copyright owners have prohibited its
use. "David Cameron does not understand us. And he can never understand us," the
paper said, referring to the old Etonian as "old salmon-chops" and "not the
sharpest knife in life's cutlery box".

The 2010 race for Downing Street had been billed as the first "social media
election", and hours before the official release of the first exit poll at 10pm,
the social networking service Twitter was the venue for early hints of what the
results might reveal.

On its Twitter feed, the polling organisation ICM reported "rumours of (an) exit
poll showing Tories on 39%", enough for an overall majority, with Labour and the
Liberal Democrats fighting for second place.

Meanwhile, the Radio 4 broadcaster Martha Kearney tweeted rumours from sources
inside the parties, apparently in breach of BBC rules on reporting of election
results while the polls remained open.

"Senior Tory tells me they have small overall majority," she wrote, while a
Labour campaign source had told her the Conservatives would win 310-320 seats,
just short of a majority, with 280 seats for Labour. The messages were later
deleted.

The familiar choreography of election day unfolded, of course - but in ways that
hinted that showed changes afoot in British politics.

One such sign was the mountain of excited photographers and multiple television
crews greeting Clegg as he emerged to vote at a Methodist church in his home
constituency of Sheffield Hallam. His wife, Miriam Gonzalez Durantez,
accompanied him, but did not give him her vote: as a Spanish citizen, she could
lend only moral support.

Afterwards, he invited the campaign-wearied members of his travelling press pack
back to his home for tea and cakes - a reference to an interview in which he had
defended claiming expenses for home improvements in the grounds that his home
belonged to the taxpayer. Cameron, accompanied by his wife Samantha, was the
first of the main party leaders to cast his vote.

But that moment was delayed for two hours by protesters who scaled the roof of
Spelsbury memorial hall, in the Oxfordshire village of Witney, and unfurled a
banner reading "Britons know your place - vote Eton, vote Tory." They refused to
descend at first, arguing that they were not preventing anyone from casting a
ballot, but eventually complied with police requests.

Gordon Brown, so often a glowering and tired-looking presence during the
campaign, seemed in genuinely high spirits as he stepped to one side to usher
his wife, Sarah, into their polling station at the North Queensferry community
centre, overlooking the Firth of Forth. "Good to see you," was all he said to
reporters afterwards, climbing back into a chauffeured Jaguar.

Like the other leaders, he planned no further public appearances during the day.
Clegg had plans for a country hike, while Cameron's spokeswoman said he had
"spent two hours chopping logs," an exercise reminiscent of George Bush's
favoured pastime, clearing brush.

Amid the largely smooth progress of the day, there were isolated reports of
anomalies.

Police were called to the Ben Jonson primary school in Tower Hamlets after
voters complained of intimidation, the East London Advertiser reported. Three
polling stations in Willesden, north-west London, were temporarily closed early
in the day when it emerged that voters had been given ballot papers for the
wrong constituency. The stations later reopened, and Brent council said it was
telephoning the affected voters to ask them to return.

Farage was also not the only candidate to suffer injury in the course of
last-minute campaigning yesterday.

Joe Benton, Labour's incumbent candidate in Bootle, Merseyside, had the tip of
his finger bitten off by a dog while posting an election leaflet through a door,
rendering him unable to cast a vote for himself or to attend the vote count in
his constituency.

In the birthplace of the New Labour project - which seemed, one way or another,
to be coming to a close yesterday - the Liberal Democrats were hopeful of
seizing the seat of Islington South and Finsbury.

Around the corner from Richmond Crescent in Islington, where a bleary-eyed,
nightgown-clad Cherie Blair opened the door to a flower delivery and a phalanx
of photographers on 2 May, 1997, postal worker Ernest Rose declared himself
finished with Labour.

"I saw Blair speaking at a union meeting when he was a junior (shadow) minister
and I said to my friends, 'This bloke lives round the corner from me, but I
don't think I can trust him,' " he said. "And I have to say, looking back on it
all now, I think I've been justified." Equally disenchanted with the
Conservatives and Lib Dems, he had cast his vote for the animal rights party
Animals Count.

But Alex Obradovich, a health worker, provided an example of the "third-party
squeeze" that the Lib Dems feared.

"I thought I'd really like to vote for the Liberals, but then I thought, I'd be
doing it to make a statement. And that little 'x' isn't going to say all the
things I want it to say," she said.

"So I voted Labour. I wish there was a little space where you could write in
everything you wanted to tell them."

Alongside the day's sense of momentousness were the usual eccentricities of a
British general election: the voters casting their ballots in the stunning
setting of Caerhays castle in Cornwall, others in shipping containers, while
residents of Chettisham, Cambridgeshire, voted in the bedroom of a bungalow
belonging to Caermelia Bond, a 61-year-old retired hairdresser. ("I don't insist
on people taking off their shoes before they come in," she said. "I'll Hoover
later.")

And there was the hapless candidate standing in Chingford and Woodford Green
under the name "None of the Above", whose listing as "Above, None of the" meant
he came first on the ballot paper.

Yet such quirks, in some elections the only real source of interest during the
hours of voting, yesterday could not distract from the feeling that bigger
things were happening, that fiercer passions were aroused, and that, whether
briefly or more lastingly, the political process had come to count for
something.

What exactly that portended only the final results would reveal.

Captions:

David and Samantha Cameron after voting in his constituency of Witney

Nick Clegg and his wife Miriam leave their local polling station. She cannot
vote because she is a Spanish citizen

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: The night: The polls had closed but the war of words went on deep
into the night: After a polite start to the day Oliver Burkeman observes
frenetic spinning by leading politicians and uproar at some polling stations,
reflecting the fact that this is a momentous political event

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1795 words


On the surface, for most of the day, much was as you might have expected: the
weather a mixture of drizzle and sun, the party leaders tight-lipped and smiling
as they cast their votes, and almost everyone polite and well-behaved -
including the protesters who scaled the roof of David Cameron's local polling
station, delaying his vote. Yet beneath the playing-out of Britain's timeworn
election rituals was the unmistakable feeling of a political moment that, for
once, genuinely mattered.

As the night wore on, results pointed to the narrowest of Conservative
victories. Yet an hour or so before sunrise the outcome grew less clear, and
talk of coalitions and hung parliaments was only gathering pace.

And with hundreds of voters being turned away from polling stations across the
country, that restrained sense of the election's significance was beginning to
erupt into anger.

Amid reports of unusually high turnouts, British voters seemed willing to
countenance the possibility that the standard politician's cliche - "this is the
most important election in a generation" - might, this time, be true.

But their passionate engagement brought anything but a swift conclusion, leaving
Tory and Labour politicians fighting deep into the night, live on television, as
if to try to force each other out of power by the sheer force of their words.

The first solid hint of the evening's outcome came at 10pm, when the main exit
poll commissioned by the major broadcasters pointed to a hung parliament, with
the Conservatives 19 seats short of a majority, a severe defeat for Labour, and
the Liberal Democrats performing far worse than predicted. That was enough for
the governor of California, Arnold Schwarzenegger, to call Cameron to
congratulate him on his "victory".

But the first trickle of results brought no clarity to the confusion. As
predicted, the north-eastern constituency of Houghton and Sunderland South was
the first to declare, shortly before 11pm, delivering a solid Labour majority,
but with a swing that would have delivered 10 Downing Street to Cameron if
replicated nationally. But soon after, Sunderland Central brought a Tory swing
of just 4.8%, well short of an overall majority.

Continued wild discrepancies in swings sent leading politicians of both parties
into frenzied action, not just spinning the results in their favour but
frequently, it seemed, carrying out negotiations about the shape of a future
government through their appearances on BBC, ITV, and Sky.

Peter Mandelson and Harriet Harman were the first to hint on air at the
possibility of a Labour-Lib Dem coalition, and soon after midnight, the Scottish
secretary, Jim Murphy, was explicitly proposing it. Asked whether Labour would
consider a coalition conditional on Gordon Brown's leaving office, Mandelson
declined to answer.

At the same time, shadow chancellor George Osborne began to shuttle frantically
between TV stations to insist that the exit polls showed that Labour "cannot
continue in government", and needed to "get real".

That viewpoint seemed prescient when, just after 1am, the Conservatives seized
the bellwether constituency of Kingswood in Gloucestershire - far down their
list of target seats - with a huge swing of 9.4%, one of several large swings in
the early morning, including Basildon South, home of Essex man.

Nearing 2.30, stoking fears of a disastrous night for the Lib Dems, the Tories
achieved their first "decapitation" - a visibly shocked Lembit Opik, in
once-safe Montgomeryshire - while evading their own biggest risk of high-profile
embarrassment: Oliver Letwin held Dorset West.

Yet the night's ceaseless unpredictabilities denied Cameron any right to relax.
Unpleasant surprises for the Tories abounded: they failed to win Torbay from the
Lib Dems or Tooting from Labour, then at around 2.50am - after a recount, and
much later than expected - were declared the losers in Birmingham Edgbaston, the
fabled seat that signalled the last end of a political era when it switched to
Labour in 1997. It remained Labour last night. So did Rochdale, home of Gillian
Duffy: Bigotgate failed to cause a local meltdown. Every piece of news from
Scotland seemed to buoy Labour, while the vertiginously divergent swings around
the country gave the Lib Dems their moments, too: they seized Eastbourne, and
denied Annunziata Rees-Mogg a victory in Somerton and Frome.

Against this backdrop, the unexpected soon became the norm, and when the
controversy-stricken Northern Ireland first minister Peter Robinson lost his
seat in the early hours, it merely added to the sense that nothing could be
taken for granted.

And thus the night diverged into two competing narratives - the dominant one, in
which Cameron was slated to win a majority, and the counterpoint, fading then
returning, in which the chance of a Lib-Lab coalition remained. When Brown won
an increased majority in his Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath constituency, he
permitted himself a brief smile, then delivered a moving speech that perfectly
encapsulated the night's ambiguities. It felt mostly like a valedictory look
back at Labour's achievements, and his wife's body language spoke of defeat. Yet
in suggesting he might "play my part in Britain having a strong, stable and
principled government," and championing "far-reaching reform to our electoral
system", he clearly left propped open the door to coalition.

When Cameron appeared just before 3am to claim his victory in Witney, alongside
a prank candidate dressed as Jesus, he was forced to choose his words carefully.
"I believe it is already clear that the Labour government has lost its mandate
to govern our country," he said, but he could say little more. All eyes were on
Nick Clegg, who went into Friday morning in the staggeringly strange role of
both deflated underachiever and potential kingmaker.

Outside the bubble of spin and negotiation, meanwhile, a troubling second theme
to the night was developing, as tales began to mount of voters turned away from
overwhelmed polling stations when voting closed at 10pm.

Police were reportedly called to polling stations in the London neighbourhoods
of Islington and Dalston; in the latter, a sit-in took place. Labour activists
complained that up to 600 voters had been turned away in Chester, a marginal
held by Labour at the last election with a majority of just 941, and there were
similar problems in Birmingham and Sheffield. "I feel totally frustrated - I
feel as if I've been robbed of my right to vote," one elector in Clegg's
Sheffield Hallam constituency told Sky News. Added another: "There's been
British troops dying to give the Afghans the vote, and here, in the mother of
democracies, they closed the polls and lots and lots of people are being
disenfranchised." The Electoral Commission promised a thorough investigation.

As if to signify that this would be no ordinary election day, its beginning had
been marked, around an hour after polls opened at 7am, by an event so bizarre
that nobody could have ever have predicted it. A light aircraft carrying the
former leader of the UK Independence party, Nigel Farage, nosedived and crashed
into a Northamptonshire field, reportedly after becoming entangled in the Ukip
banner it was pulling. Yet Farage, who is running against the Commons Speaker
John Bercow in Buckingham, walked away from the badly crumpled plane largely
unscathed, his pilot also avoiding life-threatening injury. "I am lucky to be
alive," Farage said later, in what soon established itself as the understatement
of the day.

Forty-four million people were eligible to vote, and reports of long queues
outside polling stations in London, Bristol, Liverpool and elsewhere suggested
that they were doing so in droves.

Newspaper readers had woken to the final strident efforts of many titles to
elbow the result in their preferred direction. Rupert Murdoch's Sun carried a
cover image of Cameron as Barack Obama, with the caption "Our only hope", while
the Daily Mail used images of unrest in Athens to imply that "anarchy and
murder" might break out in Britain were the Tory leader to be denied a decisive
majority.

The 2010 race for Downing Street had been billed as the first "social media
election", and hours before the official release of the first exit poll at 10pm,
the social networking service Twitter was the venue for early hints of what the
results might reveal. On its Twitter feed, the polling organisation ICM reported
"rumours of (an) exit poll showing Tories on 39%", enough for an overall
majority, with Labour and the Liberal Democrats fighting for second place.

Meanwhile, the Radio 4 broadcaster Martha Kearney tweeted rumours from sources
inside the parties, apparently in breach of BBC rules on reporting of election
results while the polls remained open. The messages were later deleted.

The familiar choreography of election day unfolded, of course - but in ways that
hinted of changes afoot in British politics. One such sign was the mountain of
excited photographers and multiple television crews greeting Nick Clegg as he
emerged to vote at a Methodist church in his home constituency of Sheffield
Hallam.

Cameron, accompanied by his wife Samantha, was the first of the main party
leaders to cast his vote. But that moment was delayed for two hours by
protesters who scaled the roof of Spelsbury memorial hall, in the Oxfordshire
village of Witney, and unfurled a banner reading "Britons know your place - vote
Eton, vote Tory."

Gordon Brown, so often a glowering and tired-looking presence during the
campaign, seemed in genuinely high spirits as he stepped to one side to usher
his wife, Sarah, into their polling station at the North Queensferry community
centre, overlooking the Firth of Forth.

Alongside the day's sense of momentousness were the usual eccentricities of a
British general election: the voters casting their ballots in the stunning
setting of Caerhays castle in Cornwall, others in shipping containers, while
residents of Chettisham, Cambridgeshire, voted in the bedroom of a bungalow
belonging to Carmelia Bond, a 61-year-old retired hairdresser. ("I don't insist
on people taking off their shoes before they come in," she said. "I'll Hoover
later.") And there was the hapless candidate standing in Chingford and Woodford
Green under the name "None of the Above", whose listing as "Above, None of the"
meant he came first on the ballot paper.

Yet such quirks, in some elections the only real source of interest during the
hours of voting, yesterday could not distract from the feeling that bigger
things were happening.

As the politicians continued fighting to define the night's direction, the
broader sense in the country was that fierce passions had been aroused, and that
politics, whether briefly or lastingly, counted for something.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: The reckoning: Around Britain: Dorset: Relief for Letwin at
increased majority: Basildon 'Essex man' turns back to the right

BYLINE: Sam Jones

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 264 words


Oliver Letwin, the architect of the Conservative election manifesto and the
strategist who helped propel David Cameron to the party leadership, this morning
increased his majority in West Dorset.

Letwin won 27,287 votes, comfortably beating his Liberal Democrat challenger,
Sue Farrant, who polled 23,364 votes. For Labour, Steve Bick limped in third
with 3,815 votes. Ukip attracted 2,196 votes, and the Greens 675.

Letwin's victory will come as a relief to the Tories. "It's too early to tell
what this night will bring, but I very much hope that we will be able to wake up
tomorrow morning to a change of government that this country desperately needs,"
he told supporters at the count.

Estimates of the turnout suggested it had been very high, at 74.8%.

The West Dorset seat, which has been in Tory hands since 1945, had been number
14 on the Lib Dem hit list. Despite its rich blue history, the constituency has
only narrowly remained Conservative in recent elections.

Letwin won the seat in 1997 by 1,840 votes, far fewer than the 8,011 majority
his predecessor, James Spicer, secured in 1992. In 2001, he saw his majority
further cut by the Lib Dems, and he held on to the seat by 1,414 votes. Four
years later, he managed to increase his majority to 2,461. This morning, it rose
to 3,923.

Letwin has been at the centre of Tory efforts to square the party's Thatcherite
past with Cameron's attempts to be seen as more progressive. He and Steve
Hilton, the director of strategy, were the prime movers behind the Tory
manifesto with its much-hyped emphasis on the big society. Sam Jones

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: Aftermath: A normal Thursday for town excluded from election

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 501 words


There could hardly be anywhere nicer to escape the sound and fury of election
day, but the one corner of the United Kingdom exempt from the hoo-ha saw little
change from an ordinary Thursday spoiled by thin drizzle.

Maybe that was keeping ballot box refugees away, speculated staff at the
Blacksmith's Arms in Thirsk, where regulars called in as usual and nothing else
interrupted the usual pattern of a weekday afternoon.

The daily round continued equally peacefully in Malton, the other half of the
only constituency in the country where not a single vote was cast. The death of
UKIP's candidate John Boakes on 22 April triggered the unusual constitutional
device of "countermanding", or annulling an election. Thirsk and Malton's
Yorkshiremen and women must wait three weeks, until Thursday, 27 May.

Local election officers have done their best to spread the news in the last
fortnight, but inevitably it didn't get through to everyone. A device so rare
that it has happened only seven times in parliamentary elections (including the
last one, when the Liberal Democrat in South Staffordshire died during the
campaign) needed more time to explain.

"We've had people turn up at village halls this morning getting extremely
confused as to why there was no polling booth there," said Jonathan Roberts,
Labour's challenger to Tory Anne Mackintosh whose notional majority (this is a
new seat, with major boundary changes) is a whopping 14,117.

Roberts spent part of the day trying to get the message out, along with his own
policies, to hamlets between the huge White Horse carved on Sutton Bank and the
grand old fortress of Edwardian liberalism at Castle Howard.

"People are feeling a bit strange," agreed Mike Skehan, town clerk of Malton,
who woke like most of his neighbours to final appeals to do something which none
of them can, thanks to the countermanding. "It's peaceful, I suppose, but there
is quite a lot of discontent that the election law works like this, and that we
can't take part along with everyone else."

Ditto on the seafront at Filey, whose serene North Sea bay has been added to a
constituency which, in landscape terms, has everything. Peter Hepworth, on a day
off and out from York for a trip with his two children, said: "One or two of the
shopkeepers have said how odd it seems. I mustn't get under the spell. I've to
vote when we get back home."

Thirsk and Malton's trance may be reversed with a vengeance on 27 May, which
will provide a high-profile verdict on any dealing which follows an uncertain
result in the rest of the country.

Roberts jumped on to a train to London yesterday afternoon "to do some media
work on how Thirsk and Malton could become a key battleground".

Skehan said: "If one side wins a definite victory, then I expect we'll all go to
sleep again. But if it's a 'draw', then look out Thirsk and Malton: the whole
political circus will descend on us. Let's enjoy this break."

Captions:

Thirsk and Malton: a constituency with everything, in landscape terms, but no
vote

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: On the ground: Farage hurt as stunt backfires: Plane crashes
after getting tangled in poll banner Ukip candidate and pilot in 'miraculous
escape'

BYLINE: Owen Bowcott

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 438 words


The former leader of the UK Independence party, Nigel Farage, was being treated
for head and chest injuries last night after a light aircraft in which he was
flying for an election day stunt nosedived into the ground, crushing the
cockpit.

The MEP, who is standing for parliament in Buckingham against the Speaker of the
House of Commons, John Bercow, was pulled out of the wreckage, his face bloodied
and badly bruised. As soon as he was freed, he asked for his mobile phone and
lit a cigarette, witnesses said.

Although "in and out of consciousness" after the crash, his condition was said
to be "not life-threatening". He was initially taken to Horton General hospital
in Banbury but later transferred to John Radcliffe hospital in Oxford after
complaining of chest and midriff pains.

In a statement by his spokesman, Duncan Barkes, Farage said of the crash, which
also injured the pilot, Justin Adams: "We've both had a miraculous escape"

A hospital spokeswoman said Farage was likely to remain "for a few days".

Barkes added: "He is not going anywhere today. There is no way he will be at the
count tomorrow. He's got two broken ribs, a small chip to his spine and damage
to his sternum." The pilot, who had to be cut from the wreckage, is in a stable
condition in hospital, Barkes said.

The plane crashed at 8am yesterday beside Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield in
Northamptonshire. Ukip's chief spokesman had climbed into the
Polish-manufactured PZL-104 Wilga 35A fixed-wing aircraft for a flypast.

The plane was towing a banner with the slogan "Vote for your country - vote
Ukip'. It had completed several low passes for photographers. On its last turn
the banner appeared to get tangled in the tail fin and the aircraft - 10 metres
(30 ft) up - turned over and plunged into the ground.

Neil Hall, a photographer for the INS agency in Reading who had been asked by
the MEP to capture the stunt, said: "One minute (the aircraft) was in the air,
the next it was a cloud of dust. It simply nosedived without any warning.

"It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened. I could see
Nigel's leg sticking out, and feared he was dead.

"Then I heard him moaning saying 'Get me out'. With the help of a passing
cyclist, we managed to pull Nigel out. Blood was pouring from his mouth."

The crash is being investigated by the Air Accidents Investigation Branch,
supported by Northamptonshire police; there was no suggestion of sabotage.

Captions:

Ukip's Nigel Farage is helped free from the wreckage of the light aircraft that
plunged to the ground while towing a party slogan in Northamptonshire yesterday
Photograph: Neil Hall/INS

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: On the ground: Great flurries of Cameron's best boilerplate
signify nothing, as the prize eludes him: John Harris watches the Tory leader,
with silent Samantha in tow, work the ranks of eccentrics, no-hopers and party
faithful in Witney

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 597 words


They arrived at Witney leisure centre at 1.02am. Him, greyer than you'd imagine,
but with skin as peach-perfect as ever; her, looking a bit like a scared Disney
animal, encased in purple. They swept around the candidates, activists and
vote-counters, and David Cameron dispensed the usual boilerplate: "Great to see
you . . . long day . . . thanks for your work . . . Great to see you . . . long
day."

For some reason, he stopped longest to talk to what must be the entire
membership of the local Labour party. In keeping with a campaign that has surely
set the cause of female emancipation back at least 10 years, Samantha uttered
barely a word.

In the bar, Green candidate Stuart McDonald was complaining about the intrusive
security. "I took my trousers down," he said. "They had their hands in my
pockets - everything. They said they'd do the same for Cameron. I bet."

The Tory leader sat at a table with Andy Coulson, working on his speech in great
flurries of black, spidery handwriting that said everything about the queasily
uncertain moment. If anyone attempted to snatch a look at the work in progress,
Coulson shot them a look that - in Wapping, at least - would kill.

The upstairs gallery was awash with rumour, of a sort. Sky TV burbled away, but
more attention was being paid to whispers that a reporter from an American news
magazine had been chucked out of the nearby New Inn after being too persistent
with the local Tories. Over the last few days, this is what life has been like
here: the staid social fabric of the Cotswolds borders torn asunder by frantic
members of the international media (yesterday, I watched a gaggle of Italian TV
people, shattering the calm of Witney high street by yelling at the window of
Cameron's HQ from outside a local tea shop - even the al fresco smokers looked
offended).

As the wee hours began, the parade of eccentrics and no-hopers paced the bar:
the Monster Raving Loonies' barrel-dimensioned Alan Hope, Colin Bex from the
Wessex Regionalists, and the self-styled comedy terrorist Aaron "Oh, my sides"
Barschak - who, in protest against the Campsfield immigration removal centre,
had come dressed as Jesus.

Aside from Ukip's impossibly tweedy Nikolai Tolstoy (a scion of the dynasty, and
only too keen to say so), most of them had the David Brent-esque look of office
pranksters at 3pm on a drizzly Comic Relief day. Understandably, the local Tory
militia paid them no attention. Instead, they tried to keep calm.

"Far too early to tell," said Graham Haslam, a true-blue resident of the village
of Bampton, a place so manicured it looks like a supersized Hornby model railway
layout. With every wildly varying swing number, they looked more vexed. "I can't
give you a prediction," he sighed. He later looked ahead to a Tory majority of
nine, but looked less than convinced.

As did Cameron, who increased his local majority to 22,000, but gave the only
speech he could, contortedly equivocal and lacking any good news for his tribe.
Labour had lost its mandate, "new leadership" was required, and he would strain
his every sinew "to do what is right for our country" and somehow secure "good,
strong, stable government" - but he sounded distinctly like a man denied his
prize. His retinue then legged it, leaving head-scratching local Tories in its
wake. No one was giving much away, but the upshot was obvious: as with Mrs C,
their man had said close to nothing at all.

Captions:

David Cameron celebrates winning his seat of Witney last night with Monster
Raving Loony William Hill Party candidate Alan Hope. Photograph: Stefan Rousseau

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

G2: Alexander Chancellor: I agreed it was time for a change - but change to
what? Like many others at this election, I was undecided till the last

BYLINE: Alexander Chancellor

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 948 words


Like four in 10 of the electorate, I woke up yesterday morning still uncertain
how I was going to vote. One option, of course, was not to vote at all, thus
showing contempt for all politicians of all parties after last year's expenses
scandal. But that wouldn't have been quite honest, as I don't hold more than a
few politicians in contempt. And anyway, the country has got to have a
government of some kind, and one might as well use one's rare democratic
opportunity to help choose it. But choosing a government in this election was
not going to be easy because polls predicted a hung parliament, and in that
event it would be up to the Liberal Democrats (assuming they came third) to
decide if the country were to be led by a Labour or a Conservative prime
minister.

Given that the Lib Dems were committed to supporting whichever of the other two
parties did best in the election, the obvious thing to do was to vote for
whichever of these one preferred. On the main issue of the day, the economy,
neither would be frank about the Greek-type pain it was planning to inflict upon
us if elected. But since it was clear that any government of whatever hue would
have to make huge spending cuts and raise taxes, the choice had to be based on
one's view of the abilities of their leaders, Gordon Brown and David Cameron.
Brown boasted of his experience and competence, Cameron of his energy and
leadership qualities. But it was under Brown that we had got into this mess, and
Cameron had in my view shown a dismal failure of leadership over Europe by
forming an unholy alliance with a bunch of weirdos in the European parliament in
order to placate his Eurosceptic fringe.

Well, my first decision was that I really couldn't vote Labour. The party had
been in power too long and done too many unforgivable things, such as taking
Britain to war against Iraq, to deserve a fourth term. I agreed it was time for
a change, but change to what? I was wondering about voting Tory, but something
was holding me back. "Vote for change, vote Conservative" seemed an implausible
campaign slogan; for Conservatives have never been associated with change. The
only times I have ever wanted to vote Tory have been when I have longed for
everything to stay the same. What the Conservatives mean by change is, in fact,
no more than a change of government, which is what every opposition party in
every election always wants. If it was change I was going to get, I wanted it to
be a little more inspiring than that.

Before going to the polling station, I went out to get the morning papers and
was almost driven back into the arms of the Conservatives by the Daily Mirror's
display on its front page of that famous Bullingdon Club photograph. Cameron has
at least done enough by now for his privileged background not to be held against
him. There was, however, another reason for not voting Conservative. I live and
vote in the constituency of South Northamptonshire, where the Conservative
candidate is called Andrea Leadsom. She is a wife and mother of three, living in
a village within three miles of me, and she seems to be an excellent woman,
devoted to the cause of giving children a good start in life. But her official
biography states that she "has enjoyed a 25-year career in the banking and
finance industry, having been financial institutions director at Barclays Bank,
managing director of a London hedge fund, and more recently, head of corporate
governance for Invesco Perpetual, one of the UK's largest retail fund managers".
That is a background that it is still too early

to forgive.

The change proposed by Nick Clegg was no clearer than Cameron's, but it sounded
rather loftier. This election, he kept saying, would be "the first chance in a
generation to change Britain for good". What did he mean by "for good"? I
imagine he meant permanently changing the electoral system to give the Lib Dems
a sporting chance of one day forming a government again. By bringing in
proportional representation, he would end the duopoly of what he called the
"old" parties and usher in a force that was fresh and new - in other words,
himself. He would have us forget that there is no party older than the Liberal
party, which has its origins in the 17th century. Even old Labour is a great
deal newer than that.

I went down to the polling station in the village hall in the hope that talking
to people there might help me make up my mind. But Stoke Bruerne was deserted,
apart from a man noisily trimming his garden hedge, and I was the only person
voting. The only people at the polling station were the two elderly ladies in
charge of the ballot. (In fact, the only stir in the whole constituency
yesterday was caused by reports of Nigel Farage crashing his plane near Brackley
by attaching a Ukip banner to its tail.)

Conservative newspapers, including the Sun and the Daily Mail, had been warning
loudly against the dangers of a hung parliament and urging us to vote Tory to
avoid it, but I decided in the end to accept Tony Blair's advice in the Guardian
and vote for the party whose policies I preferred. And what party was that? I
had hardly thought about it before, but it suddenly occurred to me it was the
Lib Dems. On Iraq and on Europe, two issues on which I have strong feelings,

I found myself more on their side than on anyone else's. And luckily, it didn't
actually matter how I voted, because in South Northamptonshire the Conservative
was bound to win.

This week:

Alexander went on the eve of the election to see Roman Polanski's film The
Ghost, based on Robert Harris's thriller about a former Labour prime minister:
"Most enjoyable, and a reminder that voting Labour would not be a good idea."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: Results

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 4884 words


Aberavon

* Labour hold

Hywel Francis (Lab) 16,073 (51.92%)

Keith Davies (LD) 5,034 (16.26%)

Caroline Jones (C) 4,411 (14.25%)

Paul Nicholls-Jones (PC) 2,198 (7.10%)

Kevin Edwards (BNP) 1,276 (4.12%)

Andrew Tutton (Ind) 919 (2.97%)

Captain Beany (Bean) 558 (1.80%)

Joe Callan (UKIP) 489 (1.58%)

Labour majority 11,039 (35.66%)

5.32% swing Lab to LDElectorate 50,789

Turnout 30,958 (60.95%)

Aberconwy

* Conservative gain from Labour

Boundary change

Guto Bebb (C) 10,734 (35.82%)

Ronald Hughes (Lab) 7,336 (24.48%)

Mike Priestley (LD) 5,786 (19.31%)

Phil Edwards (PC) 5,341 (17.82%)

Mike Wieteska (UKIP) 632 (2.11%)

Louise Wynne-Jones (Ch P) 137 (0.46%)

Conservative majority 3,398 (11.34%)

7.63% swing Lab to CElectorate 44,593

Turnout 29,966 (67.20%)

Aberdeen South

* Labour hold

Anne Begg (Lab) 15,722 (36.53%)

John Sleigh (LD) 12,216 (28.39%)

Amanda Harvie (C) 8,914 (20.71%)

Mark McDonald (SNP) 5,102 (11.86%)

Susan Ross (BNP) 529 (1.23%)

Rhonda Reekie (Green) 413 (0.96%)

Robert Green (SACL) 138 (0.32%)

Labour majority 3,506 (8.15%)

2.45% swing LD to LabElectorate 64,031

Turnout 43,034 (67.21%)

Aberdeenshire West & Kincardine

* Liberal Democrat hold

Sir Robert Smith (LD) 17,362 (38.42%)

Alex Johnstone (C) 13,678 (30.26%)

Dennis Robertson (SNP) 7,086 (15.68%)

Greg Williams (Lab) 6,159 (13.63%)

Gary Raikes (BNP) 513 (1.14%)

Anthony Atkinson (UKIP) 397 (0.88%)

Liberal Democrat majority 3,684 (8.15%)

4.89% swing LD to CElectorate 66,110

Turnout 45,195 (68.36%)

Airdrie & Shotts

* Labour hold

Pamela Nash (Lab) 20,849 (58.16%)

Sophia Coyle (SNP) 8,441 (23.55%)

Ruth Whitfield (C) 3,133 (8.74%)

John Love (LD) 2,898 (8.08%)

John McGeechan (Ind) 528 (1.47%)

Labour majority 12,408 (34.61%)

3.93% swing Lab to SNPElectorate 62,364

Turnout 35,849 (57.48%)

Aldershot

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Gerald Howarth (C) 21,203 (46.72%)

Adrian Collett (LD) 15,617 (34.41%)

Jonathan Slater (Lab) 5,489 (12.09%)

Robert Snare (UKIP) 2,041 (4.50%)

Gary Crowd (Eng Ind) 803 (1.77%)

Juliana Brimicombe (Ch P) 231 (0.51%)

Conservative majority 5,586 (12.31%)

1.41% swing C to LDElectorate 71,469

Turnout 45,384 (63.50%)

Aldridge-Brownhills

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Richard Shepherd (C) 22,913 (59.31%)

Ashiq Hussain (Lab) 7,647 (19.79%)

Ian Jenkins (LD) 6,833 (17.69%)

Karl Macnaughton (Green) 847 (2.19%)

Sue Gray (Ch P) 394 (1.02%)

Conservative majority 15,266 (39.51%)

12.01% swing Lab to CElectorate 59,355

Turnout 38,634 (65.09%)

Alyn & Deeside

* Labour hold

Mark Tami (Lab) 15,804 (39.59%)

Will Gallagher (C) 12,885 (32.27%)

Paul Brighton (LD) 7,308 (18.31%)

Maurice Jones (PC) 1,549 (3.88%)

John Walker (BNP) 1,368 (3.43%)

James Howson (UKIP) 1,009 (2.53%)

Labour majority 2,919 (7.31%)

8.15% swing Lab to CElectorate 60,931

Turnout 39,923 (65.52%)

Angus

* Scottish National Party hold

Mike Weir (SNP) 15,020 (39.57%)

Alberto Costa (C) 11,738 (30.92%)

Kevin Hutchens (Lab) 6,535 (17.22%)

Sanjay Samani (LD) 4,090 (10.77%)

Martin Gray (UKIP) 577 (1.52%)

Scottish National Party majority 3,282 (8.65%)

2.22% swing C to SNPElectorate 62,863

Turnout 37,960 (60.39%)

Antrim East

* DUP hold

Boundary change

Sammy Wilson (DUP) 13,993 (45.88%)

Rodney McCune (UCUNF) 7,223 (23.68%)

Gerry Lynch (Alliance) 3,377 (11.07%)

Oliver McMullan (SF) 2,064 (6.77%)

Justin McCamphill (SDLP) 2,019 (6.62%)

Samuel Morrison (TUV) 1,826 (5.99%)

DUP majority 6,770 (22.20%)

Electorate 60,204

Turnout 30,502 (50.66%)

Antrim North

* DUP hold

Boundary change

Ian Paisley Junior (DUP) 19,672 (46.40%)

Jim Allister (TUV) 7,114 (16.78%)

Daithi McKay (SF) 5,265 (12.42%)

Irwin Armstrong (UCUNF) 4,634 (10.93%)

Declan O'Loan (SDLP) 3,738 (8.82%)

Jayne Dunlop (Alliance) 1,368 (3.23%)

Lyle Cubitt (ND) 606 (1.43%)

DUP majority 12,558 (29.62%)

Electorate 73,338

Turnout 42,397 (57.81%)

Antrim South

* DUP hold

Boundary change

William McCrea (DUP) 11,536 (33.92%)

Sir Reg Empey (UCUNF) 10

Rod Littlewood (Best) 244 (0.52%)

Paul Couchman (TUSC) 167 (0.35%)

John Gore (CIP) 167 (0.35%)

Grahame Leon-Smith (Ind Fed) 102 (0.22%)

Conservative majority 10,019 (21.18%)

6.10% swing C to LDElectorate 70,479

Turnout 47,295 (67.11%)

Stafford

* Conservative gain from Labour

Boundary change

Jeremy Lefroy (C) 22,047 (43.88%)

David Kidney (Lab) 16,587 (33.02%)

Barry Stamp (LD) 8,211 (16.34%)

Roy Goode (UKIP) 1,727 (3.44%)

Roland Hynd (BNP) 1,103 (2.20%)

Mike Shone (Green) 564 (1.12%)

Conservative majority 5,460 (10.87%)

7.44% swing Lab to CElectorate 70,587

Turnout 50,239 (71.17%)

Staffordshire Moorlands

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Karen Bradley (C) 19,793 (45.17%)

Charlotte Atkins (Lab) 13,104 (29.91%)

Henry Jebb (LD) 7,338 (16.75%)

Steve Povey (UKIP) 3,580 (8.17%)

Conservative majority 6,689 (15.27%)

5.71% swing Lab to CElectorate 62,071

Turnout 43,815 (70.59%)

Staffordshire South

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Gavin Williamson (C) 26,834 (53.20%)

Kevin McElduff (Lab) 10,244 (20.31%)

Sarah Fellows (LD) 8,427 (16.71%)

Mike Nattrass (UKIP) 2,753 (5.46%)

David Bradnock (BNP) 1,928 (3.82%)

Andrew Morris (Ind) 254 (0.50%)

Conservative majority 16,590 (32.89%)

1.12% swing Lab to CElectorate 73,390

Turnout 50,440 (68.73%)

Stirling

* Labour hold

Anne McGuire (Lab) 19,558 (41.80%)

Bob Dalrymple (C) 11,204 (23.94%)

Alison Lindsay (SNP) 8,091 (17.29%)

Graham Reed (LD) 6,797 (14.53%)

Mark Ruskell (Green) 746 (1.59%)

Paul Henke (UKIP) 395 (0.84%)

Labour majority 8,354 (17.85%)

3.47% swing C to LabElectorate 66,080

Turnout 46,791 (70.81%)

Stockton North

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Alex Cunningham (Lab) 16,923 (42.85%)

Ian Galletley (C) 10,247 (25.94%)

Philip Latham (LD) 6,342 (16.06%)

James Macpherson (BNP) 1,724 (4.36%)

Frank Cook (Ind) 1,577 (3.99%)

Gordon Parkin (UKIP) 1,556 (3.94%)

Ian Saul (Eng Dem) 1,129 (2.86%)

Labour majority 6,676 (16.90%)

8.35% swing Lab to CElectorate 67,363

Turnout 39,498 (58.63%)

Stockton South

* Conservative gain from Labour

Boundary change

James Wharton (C) 19,577 (38.93%)

Dari Taylor (Lab) 19,245 (38.27%)

Jacquie Bell (LD) 7,600 (15.11%)

Neil Sinclair (BNP) 1,553 (3.09%)

Peter Braney (UKIP) 1,471 (2.93%)

Yvonne Hossack (Ind) 536 (1.07%)

Ted Strike (Ch P) 302 (0.60%)

Conservative majority 332 (0.66%)

7.05% swing Lab to CElectorate 74,552

Turnout 50,284 (67.45%)

Stoke-On-Trent Central

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Tristram Hunt (Lab) 12,605 (38.82%)

John Redfern (LD) 7,039 (21.68%)

Norsheen Bhatti (C) 6,833 (21.04%)

Simon Darby (BNP) 2,502 (7.71%)

Carol Lovatt (UKIP) 1,402 (4.32%)

Paul Breeze (Ind) 959 (2.95%)

Gary Elsby (Ind) 399 (1.23%)

Brian Ward (City Ind) 303 (0.93%)

Alby Walker (Ind) 295 (0.91%)

Matthew Wright (TUSC) 133 (0.41%)

Labour majority 5,566 (17.14%)

8.33% swing Lab to LDElectorate 60,995

Turnout 32,470 (53.23%)

Stoke-On-Trent North

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Joan Walley (Lab) 17,815 (44.32%)

Andy Large (C) 9,580 (23.83%)

John Fisher (LD) 7,120 (17.71%)

Melanie Baddeley (BNP) 3,196 (7.95%)

Geoffrey Locke (UKIP) 2,485 (6.18%)

Labour majority 8,235 (20.49%)

8.77% swing Lab to CElectorate 72,052

Turnout 40,196 (55.79%)

Stone

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Bill Cash (C) 23,890 (50.58%)

Christine Tinker (LD) 10,598 (22.44%)

Jo Lewis (Lab) 9,770 (20.69%)

Andrew Illsley (UKIP) 2,481 (5.25%)

Damon Hoppe (Green) 490 (1.04%)

Conservative majority 13,292 (28.14%)

0.81% swing C to LDElectorate 66,979

Turnout 47,229 (70.51%)

Strangford

* DUP hold

Boundary change

Jim Shannon (DUP) 14,926 (45.92%)

Mike Nesbitt (UCUNF) 9,050 (27.84%)

Deborah Girvan (Alliance) 2,828 (8.70%)

Claire Hanna (SDLP) 2,164 (6.66%)

Terry Williams (TUV) 1,814 (5.58%)

Michael Coogan (SF) 1,161 (3.57%)

Barbara Haig (Green) 562 (1.73%)

DUP majority 5,876 (18.08%)

Electorate 60,539

Turnout 32,505 (53.69%)

Stratford-On-Avon

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Nadhim Zahawi (C) 26,052 (51.55%)

Martin Turner (LD) 14,706 (29.10%)

Robert Johnston (Lab) 4,809 (9.51%)

Brett Parsons (UKIP) 1,846 (3.65%)

George Jones (BNP) 1,097 (2.17%)

Neil Basnett (Ind) 1,032 (2.04%)

Karen Varga (Green) 527 (1.04%)

Fred Bishop (Eng Dem) 473 (0.94%)

Conservative majority 11,346 (22.45%)

0.72% swing C to LDElectorate 69,516

Turnout 50,542 (72.71%)

Stroud

* Conservative gain from Labour

Boundary change

Neil Carmichael (C) 23,679 (40.84%)

David Drew (Lab Co-op) 22,380 (38.60%)

Dennis Andrewartha (LD) 8,955 (15.45%)

Martin Whiteside (Green) 1,542 (2.66%)

Steve Parker (UKIP) 1,301 (2.24%)

Alan Lomas (Ind) 116 (0.20%)

Conservative majority 1,299 (2.24%)

2.05% swing Lab to CElectorate 78,305

Turnout 57,973 (74.03%)

Suffolk Central & Ipswich North

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Daniel Poulter (C) 27,125 (50.78%)

Andrew Aalders-Dunthorne (LD) 13,339 (24.97%)

Bhavna Joshi (Lab) 8,636 (16.17%)

Roy Philpot (UKIP) 2,361 (4.42%)

Andrew Stringer (Green) 1,452 (2.72%)

Mark Trevitt (Ind) 389 (0.73%)

Richard Vass (New Party) 118 (0.22%)

Conservative majority 13,786 (25.81%)

0.76% swing LD to CElectorate 75,848

Turnout 53,420 (70.43%)

Suffolk Coastal

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Therese Coffey (C) 25,475 (46.41%)

Daisy Cooper (LD) 16,347 (29.78%)

Adam Leeder (Lab) 8,812 (16.05%)

Stephen Bush (UKIP) 3,156 (5.75%)

Rachel Fulcher (Green) 1,103 (2.01%)

Conservative majority 9,128 (16.63%)

2.91% swing C to LDElectorate 76,687

Turnout 54,893 (71.58%)

Suffolk South

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Tim Yeo (C) 24,550 (47.75%)

Nigel Bennett (LD) 15,861 (30.85%)

Emma Bishton (Lab) 7,368 (14.33%)

David Campbell Bannerman (UKIP) 3,637 (7.07%)

Conservative majority 8,689 (16.90%)

1.63% swing LD to CElectorate 72,498

Turnout 51,416 (70.92%)

Suffolk West

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Matthew Hancock (C) 24,312 (50.56%)

Belinda Brooks-Gordon (LD) 11,262 (23.42%)

Ohid Ahmed (Lab) 7,089 (14.74%)

Ian Smith (UKIP) 3,085 (6.42%)

Ramon Johns (BNP) 1,428 (2.97%)

Andrew Appleby (Ind) 540 (1.12%)

Colin Young (CPA) 373 (0.78%)

Conservative majority 13,050 (27.14%)

2.28% swing C to LDElectorate 74,413

Turnout 48,089 (64.62%)

Sunderland Central

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Julie Elliott (Lab) 19,495 (45.91%)

Lee Martin (C) 12,770 (30.07%)

Paul Dixon (LD) 7,191 (16.93%)

John McCaffrey (BNP) 1,913 (4.51%)

Pauline Featonby-Warren (UKIP) 1,094 (2.58%)

Labour majority 6,725 (15.84%)

4.85% swing Lab to CElectorate 74,485

Turnout 42,463 (57.01%)

Surrey East

* Conservative hold

Sam Gyimah (C) 31,007 (56.75%)

David Lee (LD) 14,133 (25.87%)

Mathew Rodda (Lab) 4,925 (9.01%)

Helena Windsor (UKIP) 3,770 (6.90%)

Martin Hogbin (Loony) 422 (0.77%)

Sandy Pratt (Ind) 383 (0.70%)

Conservative majority 16,874 (30.88%)

0.72% swing C to LDElectorate 76,855

Turnout 54,640 (71.09%)

Surrey Heath

* Conservative hold

Michael Gove (C) 31,326 (57.64%)

Alan Hilliar (LD) 14,037 (25.83%)

Matthew Willey (Lab) 5,552 (10.22%)

Mark Stroud (UKIP) 3,432 (6.31%)

Conservative majority 17,289 (31.81%)

4.58% swing LD to CElectorate 77,690

Turnout 54,347 (69.95%)

Surrey South West

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Jeremy Hunt (C) 33,605 (58.69%)

Mike Simpson (LD) 17,287 (30.19%)

Richard Mollet (Lab) 3,419 (5.97%)

Roger Meekins (UKIP) 1,486 (2.60%)

Cherry Allan (Green) 690 (1.21%)

Helen Hamilton (BNP) 644 (1.12%)

Luke Leighton (Pirate) 94 (0.16%)

Arthur Price (Ind) 34 (0.06%)

Conservative majority 16,318 (28.50%)

8.63% swing LD to CElectorate 77,980

Turnout 57,259 (73.43%)

Sutton & Cheam

* Liberal Democrat hold

Boundary change

Paul Burstow (LD) 22,156 (45.67%)

Philippa Stroud (C) 20,548 (42.36%)

Kathy Allen (Lab) 3,376 (6.96%)

John Clarke (BNP) 1,014 (2.09%)

David Pickles (UKIP) 950 (1.96%)

Peter Hickson (Green) 246 (0.51%)

John Dodds (Eng Dem) 106 (0.22%)

Matthew Connolly (CPA) 52 (0.11%)

Martin Cullip (Libertarian) 41 (0.08%)

Brian Hammond (UK Integrity) 19 (0.04%)

Liberal Democrat majority 1,608 (3.31%)

1.45% swing LD to CElectorate 66,658

Turnout 48,508 (72.77%)

Sutton Coldfield

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Andrew Mitchell (C) 27,303 (53.97%)

Robert Pocock (Lab) 10,298 (20.36%)

Richard Brighton (LD) 9,117 (18.02%)

Robert Grierson (BNP) 1,749 (3.46%)

Edward Siddall-Jones (UKIP) 1,587 (3.14%)

Joe Rooney (Green) 535 (1.06%)

Conservative majority 17,005 (33.61%)

3.44% swing Lab to CElectorate 74,489

Turnout 50,589 (67.91%)

Swansea East

* Labour hold

Sian James (Lab) 16,819 (51.47%)

Robert Speht (LD) 5,981 (18.30%)

Christian Holliday (C) 4,823 (14.76%)

Dic Jones (PC) 2,181 (6.67%)

Clive Bennett (BNP) 1,715 (5.25%)

David Rogers (UKIP) 839 (2.57%)

Tony Young (Green) 318 (0.97%)

Labour majority 10,838 (33.17%)

1.66% swing Lab to LDElectorate 59,823

Turnout 32,676 (54.62%)

Swansea West

* Labour hold

Geraint Davies (Lab) 12,335 (34.66%)

Peter May (LD) 11,831 (33.24%)

Rene Kinzett (C) 7,407 (20.81%)

Harri Roberts (PC) 1,437 (4.04%)

Alan Bateman (BNP) 910 (2.56%)

Tim Jenkins (UKIP) 716 (2.01%)

Keith Ross (Green) 404 (1.14%)

Ian McCloy (Ind) 374 (1.05%)

Rob Williams (TUSC) 179 (0.50%)

Labour majority 504 (1.42%)

5.74% swing Lab to LDElectorate 61,334

Turnout 35,593 (58.03%)

Swindon South

* Conservative gain from Labour

Boundary change

Robert Buckland (C) 19,687 (41.78%)

Anne Snelgrove (Lab) 16,143 (34.26%)

Damon Hooton (LD) 8,305 (17.63%)

Robin Tingey (UKIP) 2,029 (4.31%)

Jenni Miles (Green) 619 (1.31%)

Alastair Kirk (Ch P) 176 (0.37%)

Karsten Evans (Ind) 160 (0.34%)

Conservative majority 3,544 (7.52%)

5.51% swing Lab to CElectorate 72,622

Turnout 47,119 (64.88%)

Tamworth

* Conservative gain from Labour

Christopher Pincher (C) 21,238 (45.78%)

Brian Jenkins (Lab) 15,148 (32.65%)

Jenny Pinkett (LD) 7,516 (16.20%)

Paul Smith (UKIP) 2,253 (4.86%)

Charlene Detheridge (Ch P) 235 (0.51%)

Conservative majority 6,090 (13.13%)

9.50% swing Lab to CElectorate 72,693

Turnout 46,390 (63.82%)

Tatton

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

George Osborne (C) 24,687 (54.58%)

David Lomax (LD) 10,200 (22.55%)

Richard Jackson (Lab) 7,803 (17.25%)

Sarah Flannery (Ind) 2,243 (4.96%)

Michael Gibson (Poetry) 298 (0.66%)

Conservative majority 14,487 (32.03%)

1.17% swing LD to CElectorate 65,689

Turnout 45,231 (68.86%)

Taunton Deane

* Liberal Democrat hold

Boundary change

Jeremy Browne (LD) 28,531 (49.06%)

Mark Formosa (C) 24,538 (42.20%)

Martin Jevon (Lab) 2,967 (5.10%)

Tony McIntyre (UKIP) 2,114 (3.64%)

Liberal Democrat majority 3,993 (6.87%)

1.78% swing C to LDElectorate 82,537

Turnout 58,150 (70.45%)

Telford

* Labour hold

Boundary change

David Wright (Lab) 15,974 (38.67%)

Tom Biggins (C) 14,996 (36.30%)

Phil Bennion (LD) 6,399 (15.49%)

Denis Allen (UKIP) 2,428 (5.88%)

Phil Spencer (BNP) 1,513 (3.66%)

Labour majority 978 (2.37%)

6.32% swing Lab to CElectorate 65,061

Turnout 41,310 (63.49%)

Thanet North

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Roger Gale (C) 22,826 (52.66%)

Michael Britton (Lab) 9,298 (21.45%)

Laura Murphy (LD) 8,400 (19.38%)

Rosamund Parker (UKIP) 2,819 (6.50%)

Conservative majority 13,528 (31.21%)

7.94% swing Lab to CElectorate 69,432

Turnout 43,343 (62.43%)

Thanet South

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Laura Sandys (C) 22,043 (47.99%)

Stephen Ladyman (Lab) 14,426 (31.41%)

Peter Bucklitsch (LD) 6,935 (15.10%)

Trevor Shonk (UKIP) 2,529 (5.51%)

Conservative majority 7,617 (16.58%)

7.41% swing Lab to CElectorate 71,596

Turnout 45,933 (64.16%)

Thornbury & Yate

* Liberal Democrat hold

Boundary change

Steve Webb (LD) 25,032 (51.91%)

Matthew Riddle (C) 17,916 (37.15%)

Roxanne Egan (Lab) 3,385 (7.02%)

Jenny Knight (UKIP) 1,709 (3.54%)

Thomas Beacham (Ind Fed) 126 (0.26%)

Anthony Clements (ND) 58 (0.12%)

Liberal Democrat majority 7,116 (14.76%)

4.35% swing LD to CElectorate 64,092

Turnout 48,226 (75.24%)

Tiverton & Honiton

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Neil Parish (C) 27,614 (50.30%)

Jon Underwood (LD) 18,294 (33.33%)

Vernon Whitlock (Lab) 4,907 (8.94%)

Daryl Stanbury (UKIP) 3,277 (5.97%)

Cathy Connor (Green) 802 (1.46%)

Conservative majority 9,320 (16.98%)

0.28% swing C to LDElectorate 76,810

Turnout 54,894 (71.47%)

Tonbridge & Malling

* Conservative hold

Sir John Stanley (C) 29,723 (57.92%)

Elizabeth Simpson (LD) 11,545 (22.50%)

Daniel Griffiths (Lab) 6,476 (12.62%)

David Waller (UKIP) 1,911 (3.72%)

Steve Dawe (Green) 764 (1.49%)

Mike Easter (NF) 505 (0.98%)

Lisa Rogers (Eng Dem) 390 (0.76%)

Conservative majority 18,178 (35.43%)

1.02% swing LD to CElectorate 71,790

Turnout 51,314 (71.48%)

Tooting

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Sadiq Khan (Lab) 22,038 (43.51%)

Mark Clarke (C) 19,514 (38.52%)

Nasser Butt (LD) 7,509 (14.82%)

Strachan McDonald (UKIP) 624 (1.23%)

Roy Vickery (Green) 609 (1.20%)

Susan John-Richards (Ind) 190 (0.38%)

Shereen Paul (Ch P) 171 (0.34%)

Labour majority 2,524 (4.98%)

3.60% swing Lab to CElectorate 73,836

Turnout 50,655 (68.60%)

Torbay

* Liberal Democrat hold

Boundary change

Adrian Sanders (LD) 23,126 (46.99%)

Marcus Wood (C) 19,048 (38.71%)

David Pedrick-Friend (Lab) 3,231 (6.57%)

Julien Parrott (UKIP) 2,628 (5.34%)

Ann Conway (BNP) 709 (1.44%)

Sam Moss (Green) 468 (0.95%)

Liberal Democrat majority 4,078 (8.29%)

1.14% swing C to LDElectorate 76,151

Turnout 49,210 (64.62%)

Torfaen

* Labour hold

Paul Murphy (Lab) 16,847 (44.76%)

Jonathan Burns (C) 7,541 (20.03%)

David Morgan (LD) 6,264 (16.64%)

Rhys ab Elis (PC) 2,005 (5.33%)

Jennifer Noble (BNP) 1,657 (4.40%)

Fred Wildgust (Ind) 1,419 (3.77%)

Gareth Dunn (UKIP) 862 (2.29%)

Richard Turner-Thomas (Ind) 607 (1.61%)

Owen Clarke (Green) 438 (1.16%)

Labour majority 9,306 (24.72%)

8.19% swing Lab to CElectorate 61,178

Turnout 37,640 (61.53%)

Totnes

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Sarah Wollaston (C) 21,940 (45.86%)

Julian Brazil (LD) 17,013 (35.56%)

Carole Whitty (Lab) 3,538 (7.40%)

Jeff Beer (UKIP) 2,890 (6.04%)

Lydia Somerville (Green) 1,181 (2.47%)

Mike Turner (BNP) 624 (1.30%)

Simon Drew (Ind) 390 (0.82%)

Stephen Hopwood (Ind) 267 (0.56%)

Conservative majority 4,927 (10.30%)

2.27% swing LD to CElectorate 67,937

Turnout 47,843 (70.42%)

Tunbridge Wells

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Greg Clark (C) 28,302 (56.24%)

David Hallas (LD) 12,726 (25.29%)

Gary Heather (Lab) 5,448 (10.83%)

Victor Webb (UKIP) 2,054 (4.08%)

Hazel Dawe (Green) 914 (1.82%)

Andrew McBride (BNP) 704 (1.40%)

Farel Bradbury (Ind) 172 (0.34%)

Conservative majority 15,576 (30.95%)

2.79% swing LD to CElectorate 72,042

Turnout 50,320 (69.85%)

Tyrone West

* SF hold

Pat Doherty (SF) 18,050 (48.42%)

Thomas Buchanan (DUP) 7,365 (19.76%)

Ross Hussey (UCUNF) 5,281 (14.17%)

Joe Byrne (SDLP) 5,212 (13.98%)

Michael Bower (Alliance) 859 (2.30%)

Ciaran McClean (Ind) 508 (1.36%)

SF majority 10,685 (28.67%)

3.79% swing DUP to SFElectorate 61,148

Turnout 37,275 (60.96%)

Ulster Mid

* SF hold

Martin McGuinness (SF) 21,239 (52.00%)

Ian McCrea (DUP) 5,876 (14.39%)

Tony Quinn (SDLP) 5,826 (14.26%)

Sandra Overend (UCUNF) 4,509 (11.04%)

Walter Millar (TUV) 2,995 (7.33%)

Ian Butler (Alliance) 397 (0.97%)

SF majority 15,363 (37.62%)

6.73% swing DUP to SFElectorate 64,594

Turnout 40,842 (63.23%)

Upper Bann

* DUP hold

Thomas Simpson (DUP) 14,000 (33.83%)

Harry Hamilton (UCUNF) 10,639 (25.71%)

John O'Dowd (SF) 10,237 (24.74%)

Dolores Kelly (SDLP) 5,276 (12.75%)

Brendan Heading (Alliance) 1,231 (2.97%)

DUP majority 3,361 (8.12%)

Electorate 74,732

Turnout 41,383 (55.38%)

Vale Of Clwyd

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Chris Ruane (Lab) 15,017 (42.26%)

Matt Wright (C) 12,508 (35.20%)

Paul Penlington (LD) 4,472 (12.59%)

Caryl Wyn Jones (PC) 2,068 (5.82%)

Ian Si'Ree (BNP) 827 (2.33%)

Tom Turner (UKIP) 515 (1.45%)

Mike Butler (Green Soc) 127 (0.36%)

Labour majority 2,509 (7.06%)

3.56% swing Lab to CElectorate 55,781

Turnout 35,534 (63.70%)

Vale Of Glamorgan

* Conservative gain from Labour

Boundary change

Alun Cairns (C) 20,341 (41.80%)

Alana Davies (Lab) 16,034 (32.95%)

Eluned Parrott (LD) 7,403 (15.21%)

Ian Johnson (PC) 2,667 (5.48%)

Kevin Mahoney (UKIP) 1,529 (3.14%)

Rhodri Thomas (Green) 457 (0.94%)

John Harrold (Ch P) 236 (0.48%)

Conservative majority 4,307 (8.85%)

6.11% swing Lab to CElectorate 70,262

Turnout 48,667 (69.27%)

Walsall South

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Valerie Vaz (Lab) 16,211 (39.65%)

Richard Hunt (C) 14,456 (35.36%)

Murli Sinha (LD) 5,880 (14.38%)

Derek Bennett (UKIP) 3,449 (8.44%)

Gulzaman Khan (Ch P) 482 (1.18%)

Mohammed Mulia (ND) 404 (0.99%)

Labour majority 1,755 (4.29%)

8.24% swing Lab to CElectorate 64,830

Turnout 40,882 (63.06%)

Wantage

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Ed Vaizey (C) 29,284 (51.98%)

Alan Armitage (LD) 15,737 (27.93%)

Steven Mitchell (Lab) 7,855 (13.94%)

Jacqueline Jones (UKIP) 2,421 (4.30%)

Adam Twine (Green) 1,044 (1.85%)

Conservative majority 13,547 (24.04%)

4.30% swing LD to CElectorate 80,456

Turnout 56,341 (70.03%)

Warley

* Labour hold

Boundary change

John Spellar (Lab) 20,240 (52.89%)

Jasbir Parmar (C) 9,484 (24.78%)

Edward Keating (LD) 5,929 (15.49%)

Nigel Harvey (UKIP) 2,617 (6.84%)

Labour majority 10,756 (28.11%)

1.94% swing Lab to CElectorate 63,106

Turnout 38,270 (60.64%)

Warwickshire North

* Conservative gain from Labour

Boundary change

Dan Byles (C) 18,993 (40.18%)

Mike O'Brien (Lab) 18,939 (40.07%)

Stephen Martin (LD) 5,481 (11.60%)

Jason Holmes (BNP) 2,106 (4.46%)

Steven Fowler (UKIP) 1,335 (2.82%)

David Lane (Eng Dem) 411 (0.87%)

Conservative majority 54 (0.11%)

7.69% swing Lab to CElectorate 70,143

Turnout 47,265 (67.38%)

Washington & Sunderland West

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Sharon Hodgson (Lab) 19,615 (52.54%)

Ian Cuthbert (C) 8,157 (21.85%)

Peter Andras (LD) 6,382 (17.09%)

Ian McDonald (BNP) 1,913 (5.12%)

Linda Hudson (UKIP) 1,267 (3.39%)

Labour majority 11,458 (30.69%)

11.56% swing Lab to CElectorate 68,910

Turnout 37,334 (54.18%)

Wealden

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Charles Hendry (C) 31,090 (56.56%)

Chris Bowers (LD) 13,911 (25.31%)

Lorna Blackmore (Lab) 5,266 (9.58%)

Dan Docker (UKIP) 3,319 (6.04%)

David Jonas (Green) 1,383 (2.52%)

Conservative majority 17,179 (31.25%)

2.79% swing LD to CElectorate 76,537

Turnout 54,969 (71.82%)

Wellingborough

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Peter Bone (C) 24,918 (48.23%)

Jayne Buckland (Lab) 13,131 (25.42%)

Kevin Barron (LD) 8,848 (17.13%)

Adrian Haynes (UKIP) 1,636 (3.17%)

Rob Walker (BNP) 1,596 (3.09%)

Terry Spencer (Eng Dem) 530 (1.03%)

Jonathan Hornett (Green) 480 (0.93%)

Paul Crofts (TUSC) 249 (0.48%)

Gary Donaldson (Ind) 240 (0.46%)

Marcus Lavin (Ind) 33 (0.06%)

Conservative majority 11,787 (22.82%)

10.78% swing Lab to CElectorate 76,857

Turnout 51,661 (67.22%)

Welwyn Hatfield

* Conservative hold

Grant Shapps (C) 27,894 (56.96%)

Mike Hobday (Lab) 10,471 (21.38%)

Paul Zukowskyj (LD) 8,010 (16.36%)

David Platt (UKIP) 1,643 (3.35%)

Jill Weston (Green) 796 (1.63%)

Nigel Parker (Ind) 158 (0.32%)

Conservative majority 17,423 (35.58%)

11.14% swing Lab to CElectorate 72,058

Turnout 48,972 (67.96%)

Wentworth & Dearne

* Labour hold

Boundary change

John Healey (Lab) 21,316 (50.62%)

Michelle Donelan (C) 7,396 (17.57%)

Nick Love (LD) 6,787 (16.12%)

John Wilkinson (UKIP) 3,418 (8.12%)

George Baldwin (BNP) 3,189 (7.57%)

Labour majority 13,920 (33.06%)

7.49% swing Lab to CElectorate 72,586

Turnout 42,106 (58.01%)

West Bromwich East

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Tom Watson (Lab) 17,657 (60.99%)

Ian Garrett (LD) 4,993 (17.25%)

Terry Lewin (BNP) 2,205 (7.62%)

Alistair Thompson (C) 1,961 (6.77%)

Mark Cowles (Eng Dem) 1,150 (3.97%)

Steve Grey (UKIP) 984 (3.40%)

Labour majority 12,664 (43.74%)

0.16% swing LD to LabElectorate 62,824

Turnout 28,950 (46.08%)

West Bromwich West

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Adrian Bailey (Lab) 16,263 (44.96%)

Andrew Hardie (C) 10,612 (29.34%)

Sadie Smith (LD) 4,336 (11.99%)

Russ Green (BNP) 3,394 (9.38%)

Mac Ford (UKIP) 1,566 (4.33%)

Labour majority 5,651 (15.62%)

7.64% swing Lab to CElectorate 65,013

Turnout 36,171 (55.64%)

Weston-Super-Mare

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

John Penrose (C) 23,356 (44.31%)

Mike Bell (LD) 20,665 (39.20%)

David Bradley (Lab) 5,772 (10.95%)

Paul Spencer (UKIP) 1,406 (2.67%)

Peryn Parsons (BNP) 1,098 (2.08%)

John Peverelle (Eng Dem) 275 (0.52%)

Steve Satch (Ind) 144 (0.27%)

Conservative majority 2,691 (5.10%)

0.42% swing LD to CElectorate 78,487

Turnout 52,716 (67.17%)

Wigan

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Lisa Nandy (Lab) 21,404 (48.49%)

Michael Winstanley (C) 10,917 (24.73%)

Mark Clayton (LD) 6,797 (15.40%)

Alan Freeman (UKIP) 2,516 (5.70%)

Charles Mather (BNP) 2,506 (5.68%)

Labour majority 10,487 (23.76%)

7.69% swing Lab to CElectorate 75,564

Turnout 44,140 (58.41%)

Wiltshire North

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

James Gray (C) 25,114 (51.57%)

Mike Evemy (LD) 17,631 (36.20%)

Jason Hughes (Lab) 3,239 (6.65%)

Charles Bennett (UKIP) 1,908 (3.92%)

Phil Chamberlain (Green) 599 (1.23%)

Philip Allnatt (Ind) 208 (0.43%)

Conservative majority 7,483 (15.37%)

0.01% swing LD to CElectorate 66,313

Turnout 48,699 (73.44%)

Wiltshire South West

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Andrew Murrison (C) 25,321 (51.66%)

Trevor Carbin (LD) 14,954 (30.51%)

Rebecca Rennison (Lab) 5,613 (11.45%)

Michael Cuthbert-Murray (UKIP) 2,684 (5.48%)

Crispin Black (Ind) 446 (0.91%)

Conservative majority 10,367 (21.15%)

1.15% swing LD to CElectorate 71,645

Turnout 49,018 (68.42%)

Windsor

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Adam Afriyie (C) 30,172 (60.85%)

Julian Tisi (LD) 11,118 (22.42%)

Amanjit Jhund (Lab) 4,910 (9.90%)

John-Paul Rye (UKIP) 1,612 (3.25%)

Peter Phillips (BNP) 950 (1.92%)

Derek Wall (Green) 628 (1.27%)

Peter Hooper (Ind) 198 (0.40%)

Conservative majority 19,054 (38.42%)

8.05% swing LD to CElectorate 69,511

Turnout 49,588 (71.34%)

Witham

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Priti Patel (C) 24,448 (52.20%)

Margaret Phelps (LD) 9,252 (19.75%)

John Spademan (Lab) 8,656 (18.48%)

David Hodges (UKIP) 3,060 (6.53%)

James Abbott (Green) 1,419 (3.03%)

Conservative majority 15,196 (32.45%)

1.06% swing C to LDElectorate 66,750

Turnout 46,835 (70.16%)

Witney

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

David Cameron (C) 33,973 (58.81%)

Dawn Barnes (LD) 11,233 (19.44%)

Joe Goldberg (Lab) 7,511 (13.00%)

Stuart Macdonald (Green) 2,385 (4.13%)

Nikolai Tolstoy (UKIP) 2,001 (3.46%)

Howling Hope (Loony) 234 (0.41%)

Paul Wesson (Ind) 166 (0.29%)

Johnnie Cook (Ind) 151 (0.26%)

Colin Bex (Wessex Reg) 62 (0.11%)

Aaron Barschak (Ind) 53 (0.09%)

Conservative majority 22,740 (39.36%)

6.29% swing LD to CElectorate 78,766

Turnout 57,769 (73.34%)

Worcestershire Mid

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Peter Luff (C) 27,770 (54.52%)

Margaret Rowley (LD) 11,906 (23.38%)

Robin Lunn (Lab) 7,613 (14.95%)

John White (UKIP) 3,049 (5.99%)

Gordon Matthews (Green) 593 (1.16%)

Conservative majority 15,864 (31.15%)

0.04% swing LD to CElectorate 72,171

Turnout 50,931 (70.57%)

Worcestershire West

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Harriett Baldwin (C) 27,213 (50.31%)

Richard Burt (LD) 20,459 (37.82%)

Penelope Barber (Lab) 3,661 (6.77%)

Caroline Bovey (UKIP) 2,119 (3.92%)

Malcolm Victory (Green) 641 (1.18%)

Conservative majority 6,754 (12.49%)

3.23% swing LD to CElectorate 73,270

Turnout 54,093 (73.83%)

Workington

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Tony Cunningham (Lab) 17,865 (45.51%)

Judith Pattinson (C) 13,290 (33.85%)

Stan Collins (LD) 5,318 (13.55%)

Martin Wingfield (BNP) 1,496 (3.81%)

Stephen Lee (UKIP) 876 (2.23%)

Rob Logan (Eng Dem) 414 (1.05%)

Labour majority 4,575 (11.65%)

5.66% swing Lab to CElectorate 59,607

Turnout 39,259 (65.86%)

Worsley & Eccles South

* Labour hold

Boundary change

Barbara Keeley (Lab) 17,892 (42.91%)

Iain Lindley (C) 13,555 (32.51%)

Richard Gadsden (LD) 6,883 (16.51%)

Andrew Townsend (UKIP) 2,037 (4.88%)

Paul Whitelegg (Eng Dem) 1,334 (3.20%)

Labour majority 4,337 (10.40%)

7.61% swing Lab to CElectorate 72,473

Turnout 41,701 (57.54%)

Wrekin, The

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Mark Pritchard (C) 21,922 (47.69%)

Paul Kalinauckas (Lab Co-op) 12,472 (27.13%)

Ali Cameron-Daw (LD) 8,019 (17.44%)

Malcolm Hurst (UKIP) 2,050 (4.46%)

Susan Harwood (BNP) 1,505 (3.27%)

Conservative majority 9,450 (20.56%)

8.85% swing Lab to CElectorate 65,544

Turnout 45,968 (70.13%)

Wrexham

* Labour hold

Ian Lucas (Lab) 12,161 (36.88%)

Tom Rippeth (LD) 8,503 (25.79%)

Gareth Hughes (C) 8,375 (25.40%)

Arfon Jones (PC) 2,029 (6.15%)

Melvin Roberts (BNP) 1,134 (3.44%)

John Humberstone (UKIP) 774 (2.35%)

Labour majority 3,658 (11.09%)

5.67% swing Lab to LDElectorate 50,872

Turnout 32,976 (64.82%)

Wycombe

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Steven Baker (C) 23,423 (48.64%)

Steve Guy (LD) 13,863 (28.79%)

Andrew Lomas (Lab) 8,326 (17.29%)

John Wiseman (UKIP) 2,123 (4.41%)

Madassar Khokar (Ind) 228 (0.47%)

David Fitton (Ind) 188 (0.39%)

Conservative majority 9,560 (19.85%)

4.83% swing C to LDElectorate 74,502

Turnout 48,151 (64.63%)

Wyre & Preston North

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Ben Wallace (C) 26,877 (52.38%)

Danny Gallagher (LD) 11,033 (21.50%)

Cat Smith (Lab) 10,932 (21.31%)

Nigel Cecil (UKIP) 2,466 (4.81%)

Conservative majority 15,844 (30.88%)

3.86% swing C to LDElectorate 71,201

Turnout 51,308 (72.06%)

Wyre Forest

* Conservative gain from Ind CHC

Boundary change

Mark Garnier (C) 18,793 (36.92%)

Richard Taylor (Ind CHC) 16,150 (31.73%)

Nigel Knowles (Lab) 7,298 (14.34%)

Neville Farmer (LD) 6,040 (11.87%)

Michael Wrench (UKIP) 1,498 (2.94%)

Gordon Howells (BNP) 1,120 (2.20%)

Conservative majority 2,643 (5.19%)

7.35% swing Ind CHC to CElectorate 76,711

Turnout 50,899 (66.35%)

Yeovil

* Liberal Democrat hold

Boundary change

David Laws (LD) 31,843 (55.71%)

Kevin Davis (C) 18,807 (32.90%)

Lee Skevington (Lab) 2,991 (5.23%)

Nigel Pearson (UKIP) 2,357 (4.12%)

Robert Baehr (BNP) 1,162 (2.03%)

Liberal Democrat majority 13,036 (22.81%)

2.74% swing C to LDElectorate 82,314

Turnout 57,160 (69.44%)

Ynys Mon

* Labour hold

Albert Owen (Lab) 11,490 (33.36%)

Dylan Rees (PC) 9,029 (26.21%)

Anthony Ridge-Newman (C) 7,744 (22.48%)

Matt Wood (LD) 2,592 (7.53%)

Peter Rogers (Ind) 2,225 (6.46%)

Elaine Gill (UKIP) 1,201 (3.49%)

David Owen (Ch P) 163 (0.47%)

Labour majority 2,461 (7.14%)

1.82% swing PC to LabElectorate 50,075

Turnout 34,444 (68.78%)

York Outer

* Conservative gain from Liberal Democrat

Boundary change

Julian Sturdy (C) 22,912 (42.99%)

Madeleine Kirk (LD) 19,224 (36.07%)

James Alexander (Lab) 9,108 (17.09%)

Judith Morris (UKIP) 1,100 (2.06%)

Cathy Smurthwaite (BNP) 956 (1.79%)

Conservative majority 3,688 (6.92%)

3.68% swing LD to CElectorate 74,965

Turnout 53,300 (71.10%)

Yorkshire East

* Conservative hold

Boundary change

Greg Knight (C) 24,328 (47.47%)

Robert Adamson (LD) 10,842 (21.15%)

Paul Rounding (Lab) 10,401 (20.29%)

Chris Daniels (UKIP) 2,142 (4.18%)

Gary Pudsey (BNP) 1,865 (3.64%)

Ray Allerston (Soc Dem) 914 (1.78%)

Michael Jackson (Green) 762 (1.49%)

Conservative majority 13,486 (26.31%)

0.06% swing C to LDElectorate 80,342

Turnout 51,254 (63.79%)

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

by the people, of the people;
The Election Project uses pictures by members of the public to document the
campaign. Hannah Duguid reports

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 703 words


An image of David Cameron's face grins out from the depths of a translucent bin
bag. It is a Conservative Party campaign flyer that has been thrown away, and a
man known as Mill Hill Mike has taken a photograph of it. The boxing promoter
Frank Maloney stands arm-in-arm with a Del Boy look-a-like as they canvass votes
for Ukip in Barking. In Doncaster, Ed Miliband plays pool with a group of lads
in tracksuits. And a bunch of red balloons hanging at a white ceiling are given
the title "Politics as Art" by the photographer, who is Ed Balls, the Children's
Secretary.

This is the general election documented by the people. It is how we see
ourselves, in all our mundane glory. The Election Project has been organised by
Simon Roberts, who was commissioned by Parliament to photograph the general
election. He has been driving around the country in his motor home, taking
pictures during the campaign. Along with his own photography, he has set up a
web forum where members of the public can post their own photographs of the
election. Almost 1,000 images have been posted.

There are street posters, old ladies, and politicians trudging around with their
helpers handing out leaflets. Prospective candidates set up trestle tables in
high streets from which they will try to win votes. Even Lord Mandelson must
come down to earth. He sits with his arm around a group of delighted - and
delightful - old ladies in Blackpool. In another photograph a pub landlord has
pinned a photograph of Gordon Brown to the door, underneath the word "Barred".

The images are humorous and insightful; they warm the heart and break it too.
They are funny, angry, disgruntled and tedious.

Over a Conservative poster that reads "I have never voted Tory before, but..."
someone has scrawled: "Let's keep it that way". A more uplifting image shows a
billboard for Hugo Swire, the MP for East Devon, which has been painted sky blue
and decorated with flowers; the "o" of his name has been rubbed out so that the
only remaining text reads "Hug". A photograph of boarded-up shops in Bradford
reveals the bare bones of the economic crisis. There are photographs of
Parliament, and other pictures reveal the farce that politics can become.
There's a Lord Kitchener-style advertising poster of David Cameron pointing at
passers-by and saying "I need YOU to get me into Number 10..." . And there's
poor old Brian Haw, who has been protesting in Parliament Square for 3,212 days.

The pictures are fascinating because they show how we are, and what we do, as
political beings.

"By using other people's photographs, I am getting them involved in their own
representation. Photography is a democratic art form. Everyone has a camera. I
thought it would be interesting to get the public involved in the process, for
people to think about politics through photography. It's a glimpse of how the
public are feeling," says Roberts.

The project has been likened to Mass Observation during the war years, in which
the material of everyday life was gathered through questionnaires and writing.
It was described as anthropology of ourselves, which is what the Election
Project is turning out to be. Aside from the media hustle, we can see what the
general election is like for ordinary people.

"This will be the most photographed election ever. There are hordes of news
photographers and the demand for news is so much greater. It's a 24-hour
election," says Roberts.

From the Conservative candidate who camps with his posters on an M11 slipway (he
says that's where he'll reach the greatest number of voters) to the frenzy
surrounding Nick Clegg in the Tesco car park in Warrington, Roberts has seen
many things on the road. Along with the public's photographs, he will exhibit 80
prints of his own in Portcullis House, later this year.

"I am waiting for the egg-throwing picture to turn up. I will never be around
for the ultimate moment of the campaign but that's not to say that we can't get
the image as part of the archive," says Roberts.

"What has struck me is that we think of political campaigning as high tech, but
most of the time it's trestle tables, leaflets and knocking on people's doors."

To upload your election photographs go to: www.theelectionproject.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Farage 'lucky to be alive' after his plane crash-lands in field

BYLINE: Michael Savage Political Correspondent

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 531 words


nigel farage, Ukip's highest-profile election candidate, had a miraculous escape
yesterday after his aircraft crashed following a last-minute election stunt. The
party's former leader admitted he was "lucky to be alive" after he was pulled
bloodied and semi-conscious from the wreckage of a light aircraft that
crash-landed in a Northamptonshire airfield.

He was later found to have chipped his spine and damaged his ribs and sternum.
The aircraft hit trouble when the election banner it was towing, asking voters
to "Vote for your country - vote Ukip", became entangled in its tail fin. Mr
Farage had been in bright spirits before the aircraft took off, joking with
photographers ahead of his final act of electioneering.

He had been hoping to pick up some extra votes in his bid to unseat the former
Commons Speaker John Bercow in the Tory stronghold of Buckingham. However, as
the plane took off at around 8am yesterday, the banner seemed to get caught up
in the aircraft's tail.

It crash-landed in Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield moments later. Mr Farage was
found bent double underneath the plane, still strapped in to his seat but was
pulled out with his Ukip rosette unscathed. The pilot had to be cut from the
wreckage and was airlifted to Walsgrave Hospital in Coventry.

The plane had already made one successful trip from Winchester before taking off
again from Hinton, where the accident happened. Mr Farage had planned to take to
the skies over Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire and Northamptonshire during the
morning. He was taken to Horton General Hospital in Banbury, Oxfordshire. He was
later transferred to the John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, where he was due to
stay overnight.

The incident means he will be unable to attend his own election count. Mr
Bercow, his main election rival, was one of the first to offer sympathy to Mr
Farage.

"I was concerned to learn of this morning's crash," he said. "I wish Nigel
Farage and his pilot a full and speedy recovery."

His wife, Sally, also made her concern clear. "Shocked at news that Ukip's Nigel
Farage has been involved in plane crash," she said on the social networking site
Twitter. "But glad he appears to be OK."

Chris Adams, Mr Farage's campaign manager, was clearly upset as he visited the
wreckage of the Polish fixed-wing aircraft yesterday. "Apparently the plane
nosedived," he said. "The pilot had sent out a May Day signal and it basically
crash-dived. It's all a bit of a shock, especially on polling day." Mr Farage
drifted in and out of consciousness as he was freed from the plane, which had
flipped on to its roof on impact.

Lord Pearson, Ukip's leader, said Mr Farage had been visited by his wife in
hospital. "Despite being in considerable pain, we deduce that Nigel is back to
something like his normal form," he said. "He told Ukip's Banbury candidate, Dr
Sebastian Fairweather, who gained access to him in hospital, to 'stop worrying
about me, get back out there and get out the vote'.

"We also understand that the injuries to the pilot, Justin Adams, may be less
serious than previously feared, though we have been unable to speak to his
family. It is clear that both men had a remarkably lucky escape," he added.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

I'M SCARED I'M SCARED I'M SCARED;
UKIP BIGWIG FARAGE IN PLANE CRASH TERROR

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 778 words


BLOODIED ex-UKIP chief Nigel Farage groaned in agony and terror as he was pulled
from a horror plane crash yesterday.

Mr Farage, 46, was the sole passenger in a light aircraft when a UKIP banner it
was trailing apparently became wrapped around the plane's tail fin.

It nosedived 35ft into a field and finished upside down.

The MEP - dazed and with blood streaming down his face - was pulled clear of the
crushed cockpit, moaning: "I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared."

Mr Farage, a Commons candidate for Buckingham, miraculously walked away with
just two broken ribs and injuries to his spine and breast-bone.

Pilot Justin Adams was more seriously injured and was airlifted to hospital. His
condition was last night stable and not life-threatening.

Mr Farage, also recovering in hospital, said in a statement: "We have both had a
miraculous escape. We are both very lucky to be alive."

Det Chief Insp Martin Kinchin, standing by the mangled machinery in
Hinton-in-the-Hedges, Northants, agreed and said: "Looking at the wreckage you
can make your own judgment as to how lucky they were.

"They were lucky to come out with not very serious injuries."

His comments were echoed by a witness who saw the 8am crash.

The man said: "The pilot was coming around to do another run and then it fell
out of the sky and flipped over on its front. It was all over in a couple of
seconds. I really thought they had both died. Mr Farage walked out of the plane
but you could see he was in shock."

The politician's campaign manager, Chris Adams, added: "I'm absolutely shocked
and stunned to see how anyone got out of that alive."

The single-engine Polish-built aircraft had been trailing a banner with the
slogan: "Vote For Your Country - Vote UKIP".

The plane had been airborne for just 10 minutes and was trying to land in
overcast conditions when it crashed. The pilot had issued a mayday.

Photographer Neil Hall, who was invited by Mr Farage to take snaps of the stunt,
told of the dramatic scenes as it plunged to earth. Neil, 30, said: "The plane
was about 10 metres off the ground when the banner became tangled in the rear
tail rudder and it nosedived quickly.

"One minute it was in the air, the next it was a cloud of dust.

"I was horrified and drove across the airfield with his PR colleague expecting
to find two dead bodies.

"It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened. I saw Nigel's
leg sticking out and feared he was dead.

"Then I heard him moaning, 'Get me out'."

They pulled Mr Farage free with the help of a passer-by. Neil said: "He was
dazed and confused. I said, 'You're in shock'. He said, 'I'm scared, I'm scared,
I'm scared'."

The dad of two is being treated at John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, where a
spokeswoman said he was likely to remain "for a few days".

A UKIP spokesman said Mr Farage was itching to return to the political fray. He
said: "Nigel is bored, restless and wanting a smoke.

"Both he and the pilot have spent all day asking how the other is doing.

"They want to keep him under observation but he's desperate to get out." Mr
Farage has broken electoral convention by standing against Commons Speaker John
Bercow in his Buckingham seat. Mr Bercow said: "I was concerned to learn of the
crash. I wish Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy recovery."

10m

APRIL 15: Ten million people watch Brown and Clegg savage Cameron's plans for
cuts in Britain's first TV leaders' debate. Clegg clear winner.

APRIL 17: Cameron warns voters not to deliver a hung Parliament and Tories
sharpen their knives for Clegg.

30%

APRIL 18: Cameron launches an operation to "kill" Nick Clegg. Lib Dems up 10
points in a week on 30%, ahead of Labour and just three points behind Tories.

APRIL 19: Brown orders the Navy to rescue thousands of Britons stranded abroad
by a volcanic ash cloud.

APRIL 20: After days of chasing Cameron the Mirror chicken finally catches up.
Cameron also pulls out of a JCB factory visit after a "peerages for favours"
row.

APRIL 21: Brown calls for a "new politics", suggesting a Lib-Lab alliance could
keep Tories out of power but Clegg brands him "desperate". Cameron hit by an egg
thrown by a student.

APRIL 22: Clegg's rivals raise their game and attack him over immigration and
defence in second TV debate but instant polls still hail him winner. A Tory
arrested after brawl during a campaign visit by John Prescott.

APRIL 24: Brown declares he is going to "up the tempo" of Labour's campaign and
is serenaded by an Elvis impersonator in bizarre stunt.

APRIL 25: Dozens of stars including David Tennant, Eddie Izzard and Peter Kay,
warn the Tories would wreck the BBC. Clegg says he wants Brown out of No10 as
the price of any deal with Labour.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY He lies trapped under wreck RESCUE MEP is hauled clear from
aircraft BLOODIED Mr Farage SMILE Esther Rantzen in Luton CAMP-AIGN Caravan in
Ford, Wilts CURLS Booth in Hull hairdresser's CHEERS Pub in London used as poll
station EAGER Voters queue to place crosses in Bristol SUPPORT Gordon Brown fans
in Fife MAYOR Boris Johnson in London STAR TURN SuBo at her local Blackburn
station GRINS William and Ffion Hague at Marrick, N Yorks SPEECH David Blunkett
out and about in Sheffield CLEGGMANIA Leader in Sheffield GAINING LEADS Dogs at
Camserney in Scottish country

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                 Ulster Edition

I'M SCARED I'M SCARED I'M SCARED;
ELECTION 2010: ACCIDENT

BYLINE: ADRIAN SHAW

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 778 words


BLOODIED ex-UKIP chief Nigel Farage groaned in agony and terror as he was pulled
from a horror plane crash yesterday.

Mr Farage, 46, was the sole passenger in a light aircraft when a UKIP banner it
was trailing apparently became wrapped around the plane's tail fin.

It nosedived 35ft into a field and finished upside down.

The MEP - dazed and with blood streaming down his face - was pulled clear of the
crushed cockpit, moaning: "I'm scared, I'm scared, I'm scared."

Mr Farage, a Commons candidate for Buckingham, miraculously walked away with
just two broken ribs and injuries to his spine and breast-bone.

Pilot Justin Adams was more seriously injured and was airlifted to hospital. His
condition was last night stable and not life-threatening.

Mr Farage, also recovering in hospital, said in a statement: "We have both had a
miraculous escape. We are both very lucky to be alive."

Det Chief Insp Martin Kinchin, standing by the mangled machinery in
Hinton-in-the-Hedges, Northants, agreed and said: "Looking at the wreckage you
can make your own judgment as to how lucky they were.

"They were lucky to come out with not very serious injuries."

His comments were echoed by a witness who saw the 8am crash.

The man said: "The pilot was coming around to do another run and then it fell
out of the sky and flipped over on its front. It was all over in a couple of
seconds. I really thought they had both died. Mr Farage walked out of the plane
but you could see he was in shock."

The politician's campaign manager, Chris Adams, added: "I'm absolutely shocked
and stunned to see how anyone got out of that alive."

The single-engine Polish-built aircraft had been trailing a banner with the
slogan: "Vote For Your Country - Vote UKIP".

The plane had been airborne for just 10 minutes and was trying to land in
overcast conditions when it crashed. The pilot had issued a mayday.

Photographer Neil Hall, who was invited by Mr Farage to take snaps of the stunt,
told of the dramatic scenes as it plunged to earth. Neil, 30, said: "The plane
was about 10 metres off the ground when the banner became tangled in the rear
tail rudder and it nosedived quickly.

"One minute it was in the air, the next it was a cloud of dust.

"I was horrified and drove across the airfield with his PR colleague expecting
to find two dead bodies.

"It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened. I saw Nigel's
leg sticking out and feared he was dead.

"Then I heard him moaning, 'Get me out'."

They pulled Mr Farage free with the help of a passer-by. Neil said: "He was
dazed and confused. I said, 'You're in shock'. He said, 'I'm scared, I'm scared,
I'm scared'."

The dad of two is being treated at John Radcliffe Hospital in Oxford, where a
spokeswoman said he was likely to remain "for a few days".

A UKIP spokesman said Mr Farage was itching to return to the political fray. He
said: "Nigel is bored, restless and wanting a smoke.

"Both he and the pilot have spent all day asking how the other is doing.

"They want to keep him under observation but he's desperate to get out."

Mr Farage has broken electoral convention by standing against Commons Speaker
John Bercow in his Buckingham seat. Mr Bercow said: "I was concerned to learn of
the crash. I wish Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy recovery."

10m

APRIL 15: Ten million people watch Brown and Clegg savage Cameron's plans for
cuts in Britain's first TV leaders' debate. Clegg clear winner.

APRIL 17: Cameron warns voters not to deliver a hung Parliament and Tories
sharpen their knives for Clegg.

30%

APRIL 18: Cameron launches an operation to "kill" Nick Clegg. Lib Dems up 10
points in a week on 30%, ahead of Labour and just three points behind Tories.

APRIL 19: Brown orders the Navy to rescue thousands of Britons stranded abroad
by a volcanic ash cloud.

APRIL 20: After days of chasing Cameron the Mirror chicken finally catches up.
Cameron also pulls out of a JCB factory visit after a "peerages for favours"
row.

APRIL 21: Brown calls for a "new politics", suggesting a Lib-Lab alliance could
keep Tories out of power but Clegg brands him "desperate". Cameron hit by an egg
thrown by a student.

APRIL 22: Clegg's rivals raise their game and attack him over immigration and
defence in second TV debate but instant polls still hail him winner. A Tory
arrested after brawl during a campaign visit by John Prescott.

APRIL 24: Brown declares he is going to "up the tempo" of Labour's campaign and
is serenaded by an Elvis impersonator in bizarre stunt.

APRIL 25: Dozens of stars including David Tennant, Eddie Izzard and Peter Kay,
warn the Tories would wreck the BBC. Clegg says he wants Brown out of No10 as
the price of any deal with Labour.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LUCKY He lies trapped under wreck RESCUE MEP is hauled clear from
aircraft BLOODIED Mr Farage EAGER Voters queue to place crosses in Bristol
CHEERS Pub in London used as poll station CURLS Booth in Hull hairdresser's
SMILE Esther Rantzen in Luton CAMP-AIGN Caravan in Ford, Wilts GRINS William and
Ffion Hague at Marrick, N Yorks STAR TURN SuBo at her local Blackburn station
MAYOR Boris Johnson in London SUPPORT Gordon Brown fans in Fife GAINING LEADS
Dogs at Camserney in Scottish country CLEGGMANIA Leader in Sheffield SPEECH
David Blunkett out and about in Sheffield

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

Britain - UKIP candidate injured after plane stunt ends in crash

LENGTH: 160 words


UKIP candidate Nigel Farage has been injured when a light aircraft he was using
for an election stunt plummeted to the ground.

Mr Farage was in a plane towing a banner bearing the slogan "Vote for your
country - Vote Ukip" when it went down at a Northamptonshire airfield.

There was speculation that the accident, in which Mr Farage suffered head
injuries, was caused when the banner got tangled up in the plane.

The MEP - who is standing in the general election in Buckingham against House of
Commons speaker John Bercow - was taken to hospital with non life-threatening
injuries following the crash at Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield, near Brackley.

The plane went down just after 8am also injuring the pilot, who was airlifted to
Walsgrave Hospital in Coventry.

The plane had been due to fly over Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire and
Northamptonshire and the crash is now being investigated by the Air Accidents
Investigation Branch, supported by Northamptonshire Police.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

RIGHT WING BRINGS DOWN UKIP;
EX-CHIEF FARAGE IN PLANE CRASH

BYLINE: ANDREW PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 543 words


OUTSPOKEN UKIP candidate Nigel Farage had an astonishing escape yesterday when a
plane he was in crashed during a polling day stunt.

The light aircraft was towing a 15ft-long banner urging voters to back the party
when it suddenly banked to the right and nosedived into the ground.

Former party leader Mr Farage, 46, was trapped upside down in the shattered
cockpit with pilot Justin Adams.

The controversial politician, wearing a pin-stripe suit and UKIP rosette, was
pulled out, semi-conscious and bleeding from cuts to his face.

Onlookers said he was saying: "I'm scared, I'm scared."

Mr Farage, who managed to walk to an ambulance, was being treated last night for
fractured ribs and damage to his spine and breastbone.

Rescuers took more than an hour to free Mr Adams. He suffered a minor foot
injury and was expected to be discharged from hospital today.

Problems The accident happened at 7.45am at a private airfield near Brackley,
Northants.

Mr Farage, an MEP and UKIP's chief spokesman, took the flight as part of his bid
to unseat Commons Speaker John Bercow in Buckingham.

An onlooker said that shortly before take-off Mr Farage smoked a cigarette and
joked: "I just hope the plane doesn't blow up and crash."

The Polish Wilga aircraft, with Mr Farage next to the pilot, got airborne at the
SEVENTH attempt after problems hooking it to a device holding the banner.

It was believed it got caught in crosswinds as it banked for photographers and
the trailing banner enveloped the tail fin.

Neil Hall, 30, one of the snappers, told The Sun: 7The plane was about 35ft up
when it nosedived. One minute it was in the air, the next it was a cloud of
dust. I was horrified and drove across expecting to find dead bodies.

It looked like the front had completely flattened. I could see Nigel's leg
sticking out.

Then I heard him moaning. We managed to pull Nigel out. Blood was pouring from
his mouth. He was conscious but utterly scared. 8 Pensioner Albert Thomas, a
Tory voter, also helped rescue Mr Farage. The 77-year-old had been trying to see
what the banner said when he saw the plane "drop like a stone".

He said: "I rushed over. Mr Farage was partly out of the plane. I helped him up.
That was a lucky man."

Albert helped call 999 and stayed until help arrived, before cycling to his home
in the nearby village of Charlton.

He said "I only later realised one man was well known."

Mr Farage said in a statement from his bed at John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford:
"We are very lucky to be alive."

He was visited by wife Kirsten who later returned to their home in Westerham,
Kent, to care for their two children.

Another UKIP candidate, Dr Sebastian Fairweather, 61, broke off from canvassing
in Banbury, Oxfordshire, to see his colleague. Mr Farage thanked him for his
concern but said: "Stop worrying about me. Get on with the vote."

UKIP leader Lord Pearson, said that proved he was "back to normal". Last night
it was revealed the single-engined plane was involved in another accident four
years ago - also when it was towing a banner.

A report said a wing spar broke but the 1995-registered aircraft landed safely.
A Surrey firm hires it out for up to £350 an hour. Lord Pearson may now attend
the count for the Buckingham seat in place of Mr Farage.

a.parker@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Smile ... Mr Farage moments before taking off
Horror ... the plane lies wrecked on the ground
Trapped ... pilot's bare foot behind Mr Farage
Stunned ... UKIP candidate after being freed from plane
Probe ... investigators examine remains of the aircraft
Dazed ... bloodied Mr Farage waits for the ambulance
Agony . . Mr Farage grimaces in pain as Albert Thomas, 77, helps to pull him
from the plane. Top, the aircraft circles, towing the banner, just before it
nosedived into the airfield TURNOUT NICE AGAIN: SEE PAGE 8 AND 9
Hurt ... Mr Farage and, inset, minutes before crash

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

LOCKOUT AT POLLS;
ELECTION 2010: SCANDAL 'TO TRIGGER LEGAL FIGHT' Thousands denied vote in queue
farce

BYLINE: CLODAGH HARTLEY; TOM WELLS; ROBIN PERRIE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1252 words


THOUSANDS of furious voters were locked out of polling stations amid chaotic
scenes last night.

Police were called in to disperse angry crowds after the polls closed at 10pm,
leaving hundreds frustrated at being denied their right to vote.

The extraordinary scenes were played out up and down the country as election
officials struggled to cope with a surge in voter turnout.

Areas hit included Manchester Gorton, Birmingham Ladywood, Sheffield Hallam and
the London suburbs of Lewisham, Hackney, Stoke Newington, Shoreditch and
Islington.

Some polling stations saw sit-in protests, while queues snaked around the block
in other areas including Leeds and Ealing, West London.

Some polling stations even RAN OUT of ballot papers because of the unexpectedly
high turnout.

Voters in Liverpool Wavertree had to wait for new forms to be delivered.

Officials apologised but said everyone who wanted to vote did.

Labour protested at another shambles as at least 600 were turned away in the
marginal Chester seat because polling lists had not been updated.

Last night the Electoral Commission admitted there was "serious concern" and
promised a full review in constituencies where people were unable to vote.
Labour's Lord Mandelson said the chaos could lead to legal challenges, adding:
"Returning officers should have brought everyone in and locked the door."

Tory chairman Eric Pickles fumed: "It's ridiculous."

One group in Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg's Sheffield Hallam constituency turned up
at his house to protest after they were turned away.

Hundreds were left queuing in the rain due to "administrative problems" caused
by an unexpected rush at the Ranmoor Polling Station.

One pregnant woman queued for THREE HOURS - only to find the doors closed before
she could vote.

Police were called and one woman was threatened with arrest when she tried to
stop a ballot box leaving.

Cops also dispersed a crowd of about 100 who refused to leave a library after
being unable to vote in a neighbouring Sheffield seat.

One voter said: "We were told there was an empty polling station elsewhere in
the constituency yet we couldn't vote after queuing two hours in the rain. It
was utter chaos."

Furious Helen Robinson, from Birmingham, told The Sun: "My husband and I arrived
at 6.30pm and the queue was around the block.

"We came back at 9pm, queued for an hour and were turned away. The police were
called as no one would leave. Everyone is furious."

Emma Simpson, 28, of Shoreditch, East London, said: "I was in the polling
station when they stopped me at the table. The person in front of me got to vote
but I didn't - it was outrageous. There must have been 200 denied the chance. As
far as I''m concerned this election isn't legal."

Under Britain's electoral laws, polling station doors must close at 10pm and no
one can be issued with a ballot paper after that time.

But police said one London polling station was still open at 10.30.

Experts predicted the highest turnout since the 77 per cent in 1992.

Earlier, warm sunny weather in the South East brought many out, and one party
teller in Chingford, East London, said: "They've been streaming in from the
moment the polls opened."

But there was concern for Labour in the North as rain and cold put off
supporters.

c.hartley@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Ten

The first results of general election

ANTRIM NORTH

DUP hold

Paisley Junior, Ian (DUP) . . . . 19,672

Allister, Jim (TUV) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,114

McKay, Daithi (SF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,265

Armstrong, Irwin (UCUNF) . . . . . . . 4,634

O'Loan, Declan (SDLP) . . . . . . . . . . . 3,738

Dunlop, Jayne (Alliance) . . . . . . . . . . 1,368

Cubitt, Lyle (ND) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 606

DUP maj 12,558 (29.62%)

215

ARFON

PC gain Lab

Williams, Hywel (PC) . . . . . . . . . . . . 9,383

Pugh, Alan (Lab) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,928

Millar, Robin (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,416

Green, Sarah (LD) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,666

Williams, Elwyn (UKIP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 685

PC maj 1,455 (5.58%)

3.70% swing Lab to PC

BELFAST EAST

Alliance gain DUP

Long, Naomi (Alliance) . . . . . . . . 12,839

Robinson, Peter (DUP) . . . . . . . . . . . 11,306

Ringland, Trevor (UCUNF) . . . . . . . 7,305

Vance, David (TUV) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,856

Donnelly, Niall (SF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 817

Muldoon, Mary (SDLP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 365

Alliance maj 1,533 (4.45%)

22.87% swing DUP to Alliance

HOUGHTON & SUNDERLAND SOUTH

Lab hold

Phillipson, Bridget (Lab) . . . . . . 19,137

Oliver, Robert (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,147

Boyle, Chris (LD) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,292

Wakefield, Colin (Ind) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,462

Allen, Karen (BNP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,961

Elvin, Richard (UKIP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,022

Lab maj 10,990 (28.91%)

8.44% swing Lab to C

LAGAN VALLEY

DUP hold

Donaldson, Jeffrey (DUP) . . . . 18,199

Trimble, Daphne (UCUNF) . . . . . . . 7,713

Lunn, Trevor (Alliance) . . . . . . . . . . . . 4,174

Harbinson, Keith (TUV) . . . . . . . . . . . 3,154

Heading, Brian (SDLP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,835

Butler, Paul (SF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,465

DUP maj 10,486 (28.70%)

106

SUNDERLAND CENTRAL

Lab hold

Elliott, Julie (Lab) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19,495

Martin, Lee (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 12,770

Dixon, Paul (LD) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 7,191

McCaffrey, John (BNP) . . . . . . . . . . . 1,913

Featonby-Warren, Pauline (UKIP)

. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . 1,094

Lab maj 6,725 (15.84%)

4.85% swing Lab to C

THORNBURY & YATE

LD hold

Webb, Steve (LD) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 25,032

Riddle, Matthew (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 17,916

Egan, Roxanne (Lab) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 3,385

Knight, Jenny (UKIP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,709

Beacham, Thomas (Ind Fed) . . . . 126

Clements, Anthony (ND) . . . . . . . . . . . . .. 58

LD maj 7,116 (14.76%)

4.35% swing LD to C

TORBAY

LD hold

Sanders, Adrian (LD) . . . . . . . . . . . 23,126

Wood, Marcus (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19,048

Pedrick-Friend, David (Lab) . . . . . 3,231

Parrott, Julien (UKIP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2,628

Conway, Ann (BNP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 709

Moss, Sam (Green) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 468

LD maj 4,078 (8.29%)

1.14% swing C to LD

TYRONE WEST

SF hold

*Doherty, Pat (SF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 18,050

Buchanan, Thomas (DUP) . . . . . . . 7,365

Hussey, Ross (UCUNF) . . . . . . . . . . 5,281

Byrne, Joe (SDLP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,212

Bower, Michael (Alliance) . . . . . . . . . . . 859

McClean, Ciaran (Ind) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 508

SF maj 10,685 (28.67%)

3.79% swing DUP to SF

UPPER BANN

DUP hold

Simpson, Thomas (DUP) . . . . . 14,000

Hamilton, Harry (UCUNF) . . . . . 10,639

O'Dowd, John (SF) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 10,237

Kelly, Dolores (SDLP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 5,276

Heading, Brendan (Alliance) . . . . 1,231

DUP maj 3,361 (8.12%) 344

WASHINGTON & SUNDERLAND WEST

Lab hold

Hodgson, Sharon (Lab) . . . . . . . 19,615

Cuthbert, Ian (C) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 8,157

Andras, Peter (LD) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 6,382

McDonald, Ian (BNP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,913

Hudson, Linda (UKIP) . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1,267

Lab maj 11,458 (30.69%)

11.56% swing Lab to C

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Long wait ... queue outside polling station in Leeds
Frustrated ... locals unable to cast votes in Sheffield

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 4;
                                    Scotland

Albert, 77 cycles to rescue as he sees aircraft fall

BYLINE: ANDREW PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 290 words


A PENSIONER out cycling rode to help rescue stricken Nigel Farage yesterday.

Albert Thomas, 77, a Tory voter, saw the plane carrying the UKIP candidate "drop
like a stone".

He had been wondering what the towed banner said.

Albert explained: "I was in a position where I thought I would be able to read
it and the blooming thing came down.

"It nosedived then ploughed along the ground.

"It took a moment for the horror of what I had seen to dawn on me.

"I says to myself, 'That didn't do it any good', and then it flashed through my
mind, 'It's crashed'.

"I pedalled over as quickly as I could, dropped my bike and rushed to the
wreckage.

"I didn't stop to think. I wouldn't say I was scared, but if they had been dead
that would have been a different kettle of fish. I was very relieved to hear the
pilot speak.

"Mr Farage was partly out of the plane.

"I helped him up. That was a lucky man.

"The pilot was sort of twisted up a bit.

"He had one leg partly free, but the other was twisted up underneath him.

"He was moaning a bit so he was in a bit of pain.

"I sort of freed his other leg, but there was nothing else I could do.

"They were on the phone and they said, 'Are you from round about here?' "Then he
handed me the phone to speak to a 999 woman on the other end to say just where
they were.

"Then I stayed with them until the heavy mob got there."

Albert held pilot Justin Adams's arm while a paramedic gave him a painkilling
injection - then he coolly cycled to his home in the nearby village of Charlton.

Albert said: "I'm glad they're both going to be all right, but I didn't really
want to get involved.

"It was only later I realised one of the men was well known.

"I heard they're something to do with this voting. I never did get to read the
banner."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Albert . . 999 phone call

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 4;
                                    Scotland

RIGHT WING BRINGS DOWN UKIP

BYLINE: ANDREW PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 235 words


OUTSPOKEN UKIP candidate Nigel Farage had an astonishing escape yesterday when a
plane he was in crashed during a polling day stunt.

The light aircraft was towing a 15ft-long banner urging voters to back the party
when it suddenly banked to the right and nosedived into the ground.

Ex-party leader Mr Farage, 46, was trapped upside down in the shattered cockpit
with pilot Justin Adams.

The controversial politician, wearing a pin-stripe suit and UKIP rosette, was
pulled out, semi-conscious and bleeding from cuts to his face. Onlookers said he
was saying: "I'm scared, I'm scared."

Mr Farage, who managed to walk to an ambulance, was being treated last night for
fractured ribs and damage to his spine and breastbone.

Alive Rescuers took more than an hour to free Mr Adams. He suffered a minor foot
injury. The accident happened at 7.45am at a private airfield near Brackley,
Northants. Mr Farage, an MEP, took the flight as part of his bid to unseat
Commons Speaker John Bercow, in Buckingham.

The Polish Wilga aircraft, with Mr Farage next to the pilot, got airborne at the
SEVENTH attempt after problems hooking it to a device holding the banner.

It was believed it got caught in crosswinds as it banked for photographers and
the trailing banner enveloped the tail fin. Mr Farage said in a statement from
his hospital bed: "We've both had a miraculous escape. We are very lucky to be
alive."

scottish-sun@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Smile ... Mr Farage just before taking off
Probe ... investigators examine the aircraft
Dazed ... Mr Farage waits for ambulance
Agony ... Mr Farage grimaces in pain as Albert Thomas helps to pull him from
plane. Top, the aircraft circles, towing the banner, just before crash

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Right wing grounds UKIP man

BYLINE: ANDREW PARKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 319 words


OUTSPOKEN UKIP candidate Nigel Farage had an astonishing escape yesterday when a
plane he was in crashed during a polling day stunt.

The light aircraft was towing a 15ft long banner urging voters to back the party
when it suddenly banked to the right and nosedived into the ground.

Former party leader Mr Farage, 46, was trapped upside down in the shattered
cockpit with pilot Justin Adams.

The controversial politician, wearing a pin-stripe suit and UKIP rosette, was
pulled out, semi-conscious and bleeding from cuts to his face. Onlookers said he
was saying: "I'm scared, I'm scared."

Mr Farage, who managed to walk to an ambulance, was being treated last night for
fractured ribs and damage to his spine and breastbone.

Unseat Rescuers took more than an hour to free Mr Adams. He suffered a minor
foot injury in the accident which happened at 7.45am at a private airfield near
Brackley, Northants.

An onlooker said that shortly before take-off Mr Farage, an MEP and UKIP's chief
spokesman, smoked a cigarette and joked: "I just hope the plane doesn't blow up
and crash."

The aircraft, with Mr Farage next to the pilot, got airborne at the SEVENTH
attempt after problems hooking it to a device holding the banner.

It was believed it got caught in crosswinds as it banked for photographers and
the trailing banner enveloped the tail fin.

Neil Hall, 30, one of the snappers, told The Sun: "The plane was about 35ft off
the ground when it nosedived. One minute it was in the air, the next it was a
cloud of dust.

"I was horrified and drove across expecting to find two dead bodies.

"It looked like the front of the plane had completely flattened. I could see
Nigel's leg sticking out.

"Then I heard him moaning, saying, 'Get me out, get me out'.

"Blood was pouring from his mouth. He was dazed and confused. He was conscious
but utterly scared." Mr Farage said: "We've both had a miraculous escape. We are
very lucky to be alive."

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dazed ... Farage is pulled out

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

PM-blast Sood: I'm not going to count

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 458 words


THE Labour candidate who called Gordon Brown our "worst Prime Minister ever"
said he would not be attending his own vote count - in protest at his treatment
by the party.

North West Norfolk MP hopeful Manish Sood vowed to stay at home in Leicester and
watch the results on TV instead.

He said the party had let him down - and he had even complained to police after
receiving anonymous "threats".

Mr Sood, 38, said: "I had no chance of winning anyway but I've been disowned by
the party.

"They won't share information with me. I've not had the support I was promised.
There's no point in going."

He added: "I've also had a number of threats which I've asked the police to
investigate."

Mr Sood spoke out against Mr Brown earlier this week. He said the Prime Minister
was "incompetent" and had failed to deal with issues including immigration. The
candidate added: "He owes an apology to the people and the Queen."

Labour officials blasted him for the outburst. Local party chairman David Collis
called him a "dreadful candidate". He claimed the party had often considered
deselecting him but decided it "wasn't worth the effort".

Mr Brown brushed off the remarks. Mr Sood's Tory opponent Henry Bellingham won
in 2005 with a 9,180 majority.

THE FIRST RESULTS

HOUGHTON AND SUNDERLAND SOUTH

Lab hold Phillipson, Bridget (Lab) .
................................................. 19,137 Oliver, Robert (C) .
................................................. 8,147 Boyle, Chris (LD) .
................................................. 5,292 Wakefield, Colin (Ind) .
................................................. 2,462 Allen, Karen (BNP) .
................................................. 1,961 Elvin, Richard (UKIP) .
................................................. 1,022 Lab maj 10,990 (28.91%)
8.44% swing Lab to C

SUNDERLAND CENTRAL

Lab hold Elliott, Julie (Lab) .
................................................. 19,495 Martin, Lee (C) .
................................................. 12,770 Dixon, Paul (LD) .
................................................. 7,191 McCaffrey, John (BNP) .
................................................. 1,913 Featonby-Warren, Pauline
(UKIP) ................................................. . 1,094 Lab maj 6,725
(15.84%) 4.85% swing Lab to C

WASHINGTON AND SUNDERLAND WEST

Lab hold Hodgson, Sharon (Lab) .
................................................. 19,615 Cuthbert, Ian (C) .
................................................. 8,157 Andras, Peter (LD) .
................................................. 6,382 McDonald, Ian (BNP) .
................................................. 1,913 Hudson, Linda (UKIP) .
................................................. 1,267

Lab maj 11,458 (30.69%) 11.56% swing Lab to C

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Brown 'worst' ... Sood

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                         May 7, 2010 Friday 3:39 PM GMT

Just who are these new MPs then?

BYLINE: By Neil O'Brien

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 540 words


There are going to be some really interesting new faces in Parliament after this
election.

Firstly, big gains for the green contingent. Not just the talentedCaroline
Lucas, who has captured Brighton Pavilion for the Greens, but arguablyZac
Goldsmith too.

On the Labour front, I think it's fascinating that Gisela Stuart has hung on in
Birmingham Edgbaston (even she was surprised). The Conservatives will be
disappointed not to take the seat, but it may be some consolation for them to
know that the worst people in the Labour party will hate this too. During the
row over the EU Constitution she campaigned for a referendum, despite an
incredible amount of bullying and intimidation from the centre. Clearly Brummies
want someone with a mind of their own.

Among the new intake Chuka Umunna in Streatham is the big star (cursed only by
constant descriptions of him as the "British Obama" - which I'm sure he hates).
The brainy Emma Reynolds in Wolverhampton North East is one to watch too.

There are some really interesting Tory gains.

George Eustice has (just) managed to wrest Camborne and Redruth from the Lib
Dems. A former farmer, he once stood for UKIP and is now the first former UKIP
candidate in Parliament. Later he ran the successful campaign against joining
the single currency, and went on to be David Cameron's head of Communications.
He's well connected to the Cameroons, but never likely to give up his roots in
the real world. When he ran the Tories press office he worked practically 24
hours a day - and has won the seat through immensely hard graft. They've elected
a very strong guy.

James Morris has taken Halesowen and Rowley Regis. He ran a successful IT
business, then got heavily into local renewal. He founded a campaign for more
voluntary action, and has been running a think tank called Localis which brings
together lots of the most successful local government leaders. He is highly
organised and knows a lot about how to get things done.

Chris Kelly has taken Dudley South. A conviction politician, I'd expect him to
be firmly on the no-nonsense wing of the party, which seems to have chimed with
Midlands voters.

George Freeman is a biotech entrepreneur. Super-personable, he has taken the new
seat of mid-Norfolk. He knows loads about the NHS and is an extremely can-do
guy. He has been trying to finance a new rail line in Norfolk - and I'm sure he
will do some interesting things in Parliament.

Charlotte Leslie and Chris Skidmore have relived Labour of Bristol North West
and Kingswood respectively. Is it too early to talk about a Bristol set? Both of
them have a lot in common: liberal conservatives with vast brains, both have
been in the Bow Group, and already advised the Conservative leadership. (Full
disclosure: Charlotte has also written, brilliantly, for Policy Exchange). They
both seem certain to be influential in the future. Chris is a professional
author and Charlotte has been working for the Autistic Society.

Politics is going to be pretty crazy in the near future. I think its great that
some really interesting and very committed people have arrived at Westminster.
Good luck to all of them.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Most read at timesonline.co.uk

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 56 words


1 Tories scent victory in poll lead 2 UKIP's Nigel Farage in air crash 3 BNP man
punches Asian 4 US bomb suspect's "dry run" 5 Russian forces storm oil tanker 6
Spurs for Champions League 7 Greece on brink as three killed 8 Air crash black
boxes located 9 Captain Kirk's $600m earnings 10 Mumbai terrorist weeps as he is
sentenced to death

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The X factor;
David Cameron is close to power, according to exit poll

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 505 words


David Cameron emerged in pole position last night from a substantial exit poll
that pointed towards the first hung Parliament in three and a half decades.

It forecast that the Tories would win 307 seats, Labour 255 and the Liberal
Democrats 59. Such an outcome would leave Mr Cameron short of the 326 that would
guarantee him a Commons majority, but perhaps with enough seats to form a
minority administration without going into coalition.

However, the figures came with a health warning from psephologists and
politicians, who said that the exercise of surveying 18,000 at 130 polling
stations may have underestimated the Liberal Democrat vote.

As the polls closed, Tory officials tried to play down a sense of anticipation
and Labour aides privately accepted that they were in for a long and possibly
uncomfortable night. Liberal Democrats expressed "cautious optimism" that
Cleggmania had carried through to a breakthrough at the ballot box.

Labour's high command refused to surrender and set the scene for days of
possible haggling over who has the right to govern.

Harriet Harman, the party's deputy leader, went straight on to the airwaves to
declare: "It's clear that the country hasn't turned overwhelmingly to
Conservatives."

She said that the country needed "strong and stable" government and that
constitutional conventions - in which Mr Brown remains Prime Minister until he
decides to quit - needed to be respected.

The exit poll, and the uncertainties surrounding its prediction, promised a
night of election drama not seen since 1992, when John Major upset the form book
to see off Neil Kinnock. It also promised possibly the closest result since
1974, when Harold Wilson emerged with the largest number of seats for the Labour
Opposition but without an overall majority.

As Britain voted, Wall Street suffered one of its worst trading sessions, with
the Dow Jones industrial average falling 1,000 points, more than 9 per cent. The
market later rebounded.

The NOP/Ipsos MORI poll, conducted for the BBC, ITV and Sky, offered the first
snapshot of how Britain voted at the end of the most closely fought campaign for
a generation.

A similar exercise was accurate in 2005, forecasting Labour's 66-seat majority.
But the sample was very low on Labour-Liberal Democrat marginals and may have
underestimated the third party's performance.

It also failed to take account of postal votes - predicted to be as many as one
in five of the total - which were cast when enthusiasm for Mr Clegg was at its
height.

Polling day nearly ended in tragedy when an election stunt went horribly wrong.
Nigel Farage, the former UKIP leader standing in Buckingham against John Bercow,
the Commons Speaker, and the pilot of the light aircraft, Justin Adams, had a
"miraculous escape" after the UKIP banner that they were towing apparently
became tangled with the aircraft's tail.

Had Mr Farage failed to survive the crash, the Buckingham poll would have been
rerun in four weeks, and the new Commons would have had to elect a Speaker other
than Mr Bercow.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anecdotal evidence suggested the highest voter turnout in two decades,
with some polling stations struggling to cope. Exit polls suggested that the
country was on course for a hung Parliament
PAUL ROGERS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP man injured as air stunt goes wrong

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 9 words


UKIP man injured as air stunt goes wrong News, pages 6, 7

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Danger flaps in the wind;
Pilot's view

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 305 words


Towing banners is one of the most hazardous activities in aviation. Mr Farage
and his pilot were lucky to survive owing to the lack of fire, the landing on
grass rather than the hard runway and the ruggedness of the Polish-built
aircraft.

The most tricky moment in banner-towing is the pick-up, when the aircraft flies
a low pass to hook the banner, which is strung between two poles. Mr Farage's
aircraft, owned by the Sky Banners company, may have been making its pick-up
when it ran out of control. This was suggested by police accounts that the
aircraft had just taken off and was returning to the airfield.

The main risk is that the banner becomes caught on a wheel. It can also snag on
obstructions and drag down the aircraft. In this case, the pilot pulls a lever
and drops it. With Mr Farage's Wilga the banner would appear to have been
released since it landed some distance away.

Some accounts suggested that the Wilga could have stalled at a low height.
Stalls occur when an aircraft flies too slowly, often while turning or climbing
steeply. Pilots and passengers survive accidents usually because the aircraft
reaches the ground under some degree of control or if a stall has occurred at
very low altitude, such as just after take-off or just before landing.

In 2005 a pilot and passenger were killed at Bracklesham Bay, West Sussex, when
their banner-towing Cessna entered a stall while climbing away after dropping
off its banner at the end of a flight. The investigation speculated that the
banner hook might have jammed the rudder but it found no evidence and mainly
blamed pilot fatigue.

The Wilga in Mr Farage's accident is one of a long line of popular, reliable
Polish-made aircraft that are designed for utility use such as glider and
banner-towing. It takes off in a short distance and is designed to fly very
slowly.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Wilga towing the UKIP banner

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'I hope the plane doesn't blow up and crash. I'm scared, I'm scared';
UKIP man injured as air stunt goes wrong. David Brown reports.

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 851 words


Nigel Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence Party, was dragged from
the wreckage of an aircraft that crashed yesterday morning while pulling an
election banner.

The MEP had been trapped upside down beneath the shattered fuselage still in his
seatbelt after the aircraft nosedived about 10m (32ft) to the ground when the
banner became tangled in the tail fin. Mr Farage, a candidate in the Buckingham
constituency against John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons, was
knocked unconscious. He sustained facial injuries, broken ribs and a chipped
spine.

Moments before take-off he had drawn on a cigarette and joked: "I just hope the
plane doesn't blow up and crash." The 15ft banner, which read "Vote for your
country - Vote UKIP", became tangled around the tail about ten minutes into the
flight as the aircraft circled to provide publicity shots. The pilot, Justin
Adams, 45, of Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, had previously tried six times
unsuccessfully before hooking the banner in a flying manoeuvre at the
Hinton-inthe-Hedges airfield, near Brackley, Northamptonshire.

Mr Farage, 46, who resigned as the leader of UKIP last year, was taken initially
to Horton Hospital in Banbury, but was later transferred to the John Radcliffe
Hospital in Oxford. His wife, Kirsten, was at his bedside. He is expected to
remain in hospital for five to six days. Doctors said that he had smashed two
ribs, had a small chip to the spine and damage to his sternum.

The pilot was believed to have suffered spinal injuries and was taken to
Walsgrave Hospital in Coventry by air ambulance. Mr Farage said last night: "The
pilot and I have had a miraculous escape. I am bloody lucky to be alive, I
thought we weren't going to make it."

Explaining his decision to join the banner-towing flight for the third time
during the campaign, he told a friend: "I wanted to go up on election day as I
did not want to be pictured like other politicians at a boring ballot box." On
discharge from hospital, he said he planned to "go to the pub and have a decent
glass of rioja".

On the eve of election day, he told Ann Treneman, the Times sketchwriter, that
his motto is "work hard, play harder". He added: "I had cancer when I was young
and after that I promised that I would do it my way and have a thoroughly good
time."

Neil Hall, a photographer who was asked by Mr Farage, an MEP for South East of
England, to capture the publicity stunt on camera, said he had feared that both
men had been killed.

"His plane was about 10m off the ground when the banner became tangled in the
rear tail rudder, and it nosedived quickly into the ground," said Mr Hall, 30,
of the INS News Agency. "One minute it was in the air, the next it was a cloud
of dust. It simply nosedived without any warning."

Mr Hall said that he had driven across to the crash site with Duncan Barkes, Mr
Farage's spokesman, expecting to find two dead bodies. "It looked like the front
of the plane had completely flattened. I could see Nigel's leg sticking out and
feared he was dead. Then I heard him moaning saying, 'Get me out, Get me out'.
Blood was pouring from his mouth. I think he had cut his lip with his tooth. He
was dazed and confused. He was conscious, but utterly scared.

"When he got out he just kept asking for his phone. He said 'I've lost my
phone'. I said 'Nigel you're in shock' and he just said 'I'm scared, I'm scared,
I'm scared'. He had a cigarette and then felt a bit better.

"He did not know what to do with himself. It was complete shock. One minute he
was in his plane thinking about his campaign or something and the next minute he
was trapped in a crashed plane. I'm surprised he did not break his neck."

The Air Accidents Investigation Branch has started an inquiry into the crash,
which involved a 15-year-old Polish-built PZL-104 Wilga 35.

Detective Chief Inspector Martin Kinchin, of Northamptonshire Police, said:
"Looking at the wreckage behind me, I think you can make your own judgment as to
how lucky they were."

A party UKIP spokesman said: "UKIP is sure everybody involved in today's general
election will join us in hoping and praying that the pilot recovers from his
injuries as soon as possible."

Mr Bercow said his thoughts were with Mr Farage. "I was concerned to learn of
this morning's crash. I wish Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy
recovery," he said.

The aircraft had been involved in another accident while towing a banner four
years ago. An official investigation reported that it "staggered" in the air
after a wing spar snapped.

A controversial voice

A former commodity broker and MEP since 1999, Nigel Farage was elected UKIP's
leader in 2006

In February he said that Herman van Rompuy, the EU President, had "the charisma
of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk"

Twice married, with four children, he was unrepentant at having received nearly
£2m in EU expenses, saying that it had been spent on promoting UKIP's anti-EU
message

Brackley Steane Banbury M40 A422 A421 Hinton-in-the- Hedges airfield 2 miles
Stean Ban ur b HH H 2 miles Photographer Neil Hall was on the spot when plane
crashed

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage is helped from the wreck. Initially only his legs could be
seen after the aircraft nose-dived and flipped. He finally emerged bleeding
before he and the injured pilot were taken to hospital
Photographs: Neil Hall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We've just punished Brown for Bigotgate, say voters

BYLINE: Russell Jenkins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 273 words


A bouquet of faded yellow roses, from the Liberal Democrats, abandoned in the
porch, is the only sign of Gillian Duffy's hurried departure.

The 65-year-old grandmother, below, departed the day after Gordon Brown sat in
her living room humbly apologising for calling her a bigot, and is now in Canada
on holiday. She has refused to post her vote for Labour since she stepped out
for a loaf.

It is beginning to emerge just how severely the Prime Minister will be punished
for his gaffe, and whether "Bigotgate" has, as the Rochdale Observer banner at
the local newsagent suggested, cost Mr Brown the election.

Irene White, 66, a neighbour of Mrs Duffy, voted early and marked her cross for
UKIP. She said: "I have just punished Gordon Brown."

She added: "It is not every day that the Prime Minister goes out of his way to
visit your neighbour's house just to say sorry. It might not make a lot of
difference to people down south but we know the lady involved and what kind of
person she is. There was a sense of being personally offended."

Irene Fletcher, 71, said: "I think there is a lot of things said in the heat of
the moment like Mr Brown's using the word bigot, but you just don't hear them,"
she said. "Unfortunately we did hear it this time. It has probably cost Labour a
lot of votes".

Julie Gala, 45, a midwife, said: "It worried me that if he was saying that to a
lady who was simply asking him a reasonable question in a polite manner, what
else could he be saying about other people?" A sign at a house several doors
from Mrs Duffy's semi says: "No canvassers, sales reps, catalogues, or hawkers",
but nothing about prime ministers.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Election chaos;
Voters turned away across the country as polls close ; Early signs that Cameron
will lead the biggest party

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Francis Elliott ; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 762 words


David Cameron was on course to head the largest party in the Commons last night
as huge numbers of voters turned the most closely fought election in a
generation into a cliff-hanger.

Exit polling pointed to the first hung Parliament for three and a half decades,
with the Tories in pole position.

The forecast gave Mr Cameron more than 300 seats, Labour some 250 and the
Liberal Democrats about 60.

Such an outcome would leave Mr Cameron short of the 326 seats that would
guarantee him a Commons majority - although he may have enough seats to form a
minority administration without going into coalition. But the closing of the
polls was marred by chaotic scenes across the country as thousands of people
were turned away from polling stations without being able to cast a vote.

Amid signs that voters had been galvanised by the excitement of the first
televised leaders' debates, polling stations in many areas were swamped. Police
were called to Islington South, a key marginal, and election officials shut the
doors on late surges of voters in Leeds, Manchester, and Nick Clegg's
constituency in Sheffield.

Harriet Harman, the deputy Labour leader, conceded that some results in close
seats may be open to legal challenge.

In Chester, which had a Labour majority of 973, more than 600 voters were
reportedly turned away because voting lists weren't up to date.

In Sheffield, a returning officer was forced to apologise publicly as some
voters in Mr Clegg's own seat were denied the right to vote.

Alice Meakin, 18, was turned away after queuing for more than an hour. "At
school we've had talks saying how it is really important that we should go out
and vote and now we can't. I was really excited because it's my first chance to
vote." The Electoral Commission promised a review.

As the first results offered little real evidence of the national picture,
Labour and the Tories both claimed that an inconclusive result gave them
legitimacy as Britain entered electoral territory uncharted since 1974.

Within minutes of the polls closing, the Tories said that such a projected
outcome amounted to a decisive rejection of Gordon Brown and Labour. "They have
been rejected by the British people and Britain needs a change of government,"
said George Osborne.

Labour high command dug in, making clear that Mr Brown would not give up power
lightly. Lord Mandelson stressed that the initiative lay with the Prime Minister
to form a government. He said that the forecast showed that people didn't want a
"pure Labour government", keeping open the door to a pact with the Liberal
Democrats.

The exchanges set the scene for what could develop into days of haggling.

Early results in three safe Labour seats in the North East all showed
significant, though unsuccessful, swings to the Tories - 8.4 per cent in
Houghton and Sunderland South, 11.6 per cent in Washington and Sunderland West
and 4.8 per cent in Sunderland Central. Mr Cameron needs a uniform swing of 6
per cent to win an overall majority.

The uncertainties promised a night of election drama not seen since 1992 - when
John Major upset the form book to see off Neil Kinnock - and possibly the
closest result since 1974, when Harold Wilson emerged with the largest number of
seats for the Labour opposition but without an overall majority.

As Britain voted, Wall Street suffered one its worst trading sessions, with the
Dow Jones Industrial Average falling 1,000 points, more than 9 per cent. At one
point it lost 500 points in a matter of seconds amid fears that Europe could be
engulfed Greece's debt crisis, but the market rebounded.

The NOP/Ipsos Mori poll, conducted for the BBC, ITV and Sky, offered the first
snapshot of how Britain voted at the end of the most closely fought campaign for
a generation.

Experts warned that the survey of 18,000 voters from 130 polling stations may
have underestimated the Liberal Democrat vote. It also failed to take account of
postal votes - predicted to be as many as one in five of the total - which were
cast when enthusiasm for Mr Clegg was at its height.

Polling day nearly ended in tragedy when an election stunt went horribly wrong.
Nigel Farage, the former UKIP leader standing in Buckingham against John Bercow,
the Commons Speaker, and the pilot of the light aircraft, Justin Adams, had a
"miraculous escape" after the UKIP banner that they were towing apparently
became tangled with the aircraft's tail.

Had Mr Farage failed to survive the crash, the Buckingham poll would have been
rerun in four weeks, and the new Commons would have had to elect a Speaker other
than Mr Bercow.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The most closely fought race in a generation inspired young people to
turn out in their droves to cast their ballots These students in Sheffield
arrived before the polls closed but were told to let elderly people in first and
lost their vote
PHOTOGRAPHS: ELIZABETH EELE, CRAIG SHEPHEARD/PIN AND DAVID HARTLEY
Turnout appeared to be the highest in years, with people were queueing in St
Albans before polling began at 7am

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

We've just punished Brown for bigot gaffe, say voters

BYLINE: Russell Jenkins

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 308 words


A bouquet of faded yellow roses, from the Liberal Democrats, abandoned in the
porch, is the only sign of Gillian Duffy's hurried departure.

The 65-year-old grandmother, below, left the day after Gordon Brown sat in her
living room humbly apologising for calling her a bigot, and is now in Canada on
holiday. She had declared herself unwilling to post her vote for Labour since
the day she stepped out for a loaf of bread and bumped into the Prime Minister.

It is becoming clear just how severe Mr Brown's punishment is and whether the
gaffe has, as the Rochdale Observer banner at the local newsagent suggested,
cost him the election.

Irene White, 66, who lives a few doors up from Mrs Duffy, voted early and marked
her cross for UKIP. She said: "I have just punished Gordon Brown." She added:
"Nothing like that has ever happened around here before. It is not every day
that the Prime Minister goes out of his way to visit your neighbour's house just
to say sorry.

"It might not make a lot of difference to people down south but we know the lady
involved and we know what kind of person she is. There was a sense of being
personally offended."

Irene Fletcher, 71, said: "I think there is a lot of things said in the heat of
the moment like Mr Brown's using the word bigot, but you just don't hear them.
Unfortunately, we did hear it this time. It has probably cost Labour a lot of
votes."

Julie Gala, 45, a midwife, said that the row was confirmation, if any were
needed, in her choice of whom to vote for. She said: "It worried me that if he
was saying that to a lady who was simply asking him a reasonable question in a
polite manner. What else could he be saying about other people?" A sign in the
front window of a house several doors from Mrs Duffy's semi says: "No
canvassers, sales reps, catalogues, or hawkers", but nothing about prime
ministers.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Class act unruffled by polling station protest before exercising his privilege
to vote

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 557 words


David Cameron headed to the local pub as the count in his home constituency
began, to take a reinforcing drink ahead of what was certain to be a long night.
The mood among local Conservatives was anxious, with early exit polls appearing
to show that the party would fall short of an overall majority.

The count in Witney, whereMrCameron is defending a granite 14,000 majority, took
place in a lime green sports hall at Windrush Leisure Centre in Witney.

MrCameron spent the day at his constituency home, a cottage in a small hamlet
about 20 minutes' drive from Witney. The Conservative leader, who ended a
36-hour cross-country campaigning marathon on Wednesday, caught up with some
much-needed sleep during the day, after voting earlier in the morning .

In shades of Abraham Lincoln, nicknamed the "rail splitter", Mr Cameron spent
part of the day chopping logs, a form of relaxation he has recommended in the
past, and then had dinner with his family and a handful of close aides.

Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former actor and governor of California, never slow
on the trigger, telephoned Mr Cameron to offer his congratulations just minutes
after the first exit polls. "Even though results aren't in we know the
Conservatives had a great day," he reportedly said.

Opposing Mr Cameron in Witney were Dawn Barnes, for the Liberal Democrats, and
Joe Goldberg, Labour. In addition Count Nikolai Dmitrievich Tolstoy-Miloslavsky,
the Anglo-Russian historian and distant relative of the writer, was standing for
the UK Independence Party. Also standing was self-styled "comedy terrorist"
Aaron Barschak, who infamously slipped into Prince William's 21st birthday
party. Mr Barschak stood as an independent in the Brent East by-election of
2003, coming 14th out of 16 and attracting 37 votes.

In a mark of local entrepreneurship, a hot dog van outside the sports hall was
(unofficially) taking last-minute bets up until the moment polls closed.

Earlier Mr Cameron was made to wait for two hours to vote after protesters
climbed on to the roof of his local polling station in Witney and unfurled a
banner reading: "Britons know your place. Vote Eton - vote Tory." That the
protest took place too late to have any effect on the outcome is a sign,
perhaps, of how little impact Mr Cameron's privileged education has had on the
election.

Mr Cameron had been spotted earlier carrying eggs to his home from a farm
outside this pretty Oxfordshire town. The Tory leader, who is considered a dab
hand in the kitchen, was asked if he was making omelettes. "I was and I broke
some eggs," he said.

This was the nearest he had come to an egg since one was hurled at him during a
campaign event in Cornwall.

Despite the unscheduled delay, Mr Cameron was the first of the three party
leaders to vote yesterday. Asked how he was feeling, he said: "Good, thanks. I
amfeeling good, I will leave it at that." This was his shortest statement in
four weeks of campaigning. Witney is a quiet Oxfordshire town, among the most
picturesque English constituencies. The pace of life is slow here. As the people
voted, the protesters were released without charge, and Mr Cameron went back to
making his omelettes, one might be forgiven for thinking that life was
continuing as normal.

But as the Camerons know only too well, win or lose, their lives after today
will never be the same again.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

'I hope the plane doesn't blow up and crash. I'm scared, I'm scared';
A UKIP candidate who took to the sky in a polling day publicity stunt nearly
paid with his life when his aircraft crashed. David Brown reports.

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 964 words


Nigel Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence Party, was dragged from
the wreckage of an aircraft that crashed yesterday morning while pulling an
election banner.

The MEP had been trapped upside down beneath the shattered fuselage still in his
seatbelt after the aircraft nosedived to the ground when the banner became
tangled in the tail fin. Mr Farage, a candidate in the Buckingham constituency
against John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons, was knocked
unconscious. He sustained facial injuries, broken ribs and a chipped spine.

Moments before take-off he had drawn on a cigarette and joked: "I just hope the
plane doesn't blow up and crash." The 15ft banner, which read "Vote for your
country - Vote UKIP", became tangled around the tail about ten minutes into the
low-level flight as the aircraft circled to provide publicity shots.

The pilot, Justin Adams, 45, of Walton-os n-Thames, Surrey, had tried six times
unsuccessfully before hooking the banner in a flying manoeuvre at the
Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield, near Brackley, Northamptonshire.

Mr Farage, 46, who resigned as the leader of UKIP last year, was taken first to
Horton Hospital in Banbury, where he was reported to have been drifting in and
out of consciousness. He was later transferred to the John Radcliffe Hospital in
Oxford.

His wife, Kirsten, was at his bedside yesterday, but later to returned to their
home in Westerham, Kent, to look after their two children.

Mr Farage is expected to remain in hospital for five to six days. Doctors said
that he had smashed two ribs, had a small chip to the spine and damage to his
sternum.

The pilot was believed to have suffered spinal injuries and was taken to
Walsgrave Hospital in Coventry by air ambulance. Last night he was in a stable
condition.

Mr Farage said: "The pilot and I have had a miraculous escape. I am bloody lucky
to be alive, I thought we weren't going to make it."

Explaining his decision to join the banner-towing flight for the third time
during the campaign, he told a friend: "I wanted to go up on election day as I
didn't want to be pictured like other politicians at a boring ballot box."

On discharge from hospital, he said that he planned to "go to the pub and have a
decent glass of rioja".

On the eve of election day, he told Ann Treneman, the Times sketchwriter, that
his motto was "work hard, play harder". He added: "I had cancer when I was young
and after that I promised that I would do it my way and have a thoroughly good
time."

Neil Hall, a photographer who was asked by Mr Farage, an MEP for South East of
England, to capture the publicity stunt on camera, said he had feared that both
men had been killed.

"His plane was about 10m off the ground when the banner became tangled in the
rear tail rudder, and it nosedived quickly into the ground," said Mr Hall, 30,
of the INS News Agency.

"One minute it was in the air, the next it was a cloud of dust. It simply
nose-dived without any warning."

Mr Hall drove across to the crash site with Duncan Barkes, Mr Farage's
spokesman, and said that he expected to find two dead bodies. "It looked like
the front of the plane had completely flattened. I could see Nigel's leg
sticking out and feared he was dead. Then I heard him moaning saying, 'Get me
out, Get me out'. Blood was pouring from his mouth. I think he had cut his lip
with his tooth. He was dazed and confused. He was conscious, but utterly scared.

"When he got out he just kept asking for his phone. He said 'I've lost my
phone'. I said 'Nigel you're in shock' and he just said 'I'm scared, I'm scared,
I'm scared'. He had a cigarette and then felt a bit better.

"He did not know what to do with himself. It was complete shock. One minute he
was in his plane thinking about his campaign or something and the next minute he
was trapped in a crashed plane. I'm surprised he didn't break his neck."

The Air Accidents Investigation Branch has started an inquiry into the crash.
The aircraft was a 15-year-old Polish-built PZL-104 Wilga 35.

Mr Farage's campaign manager described how the pilot desperately tried to call
for help in the seconds before impact. Chris Adams said: "Apparently the plane
nose-dived. We had a banner attached to the back of the plane which basically
got wrapped around the tail. The pilot had sent out a May Day signal and it
basically crashdived."

Detective Chief Inspector Martin Kinchin, of Northamptonshire Police, said:
"Looking at the wreckage behind me, I think you can make your own judgment as to
how lucky they were."

A party spokesman said: "UKIP is sure everybody involved in today's general
election will join us in hoping and praying that the pilot recovers from his
injuries as soon as possible."

When asked about how the incident might affect the party's campaign, he said:
"The main thing today is the survival of two men. It's not about political
points today."

Mr Bercow said his thoughts were with Mr Farage. "I was concerned to learn of
this morning's crash. I wish Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy
recovery," he said.

The aircraft was involved in another accident while towing a banner four years
ago. An official investigation reported that it "staggered" in the air after a
wing spar snapped.

A controversial voice

A former commodity broker and MEP since 1999, Nigel Farage was elected UKIP's
leader in 2006

In February he said that Herman van Rompuy, the EU President, had "the charisma
of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk"

Twice married, with four children, he was unrepentant at having received nearly
£2m in EU expenses, saying that it had been spent on promoting UKIP's anti-EU
message

Brackley Steane Banbury M40 A422 A421 Hinton-in-the- Hedges airfield 2 miles
Stean Ban ur b H H 2 miles Photographer Neil Hall was on the spot when plane
crashed

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage is helped from the wreck. Initially only his legs could be
seen after the aircraft nose-dived and flipped. He finally emerged bleeding
before he and the injured pilot were taken to hospital
Photographs: Neil Hall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Danger flaps in the wind;
Pilot's view

BYLINE: Charles Bremner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 328 words


Towing banners is one of the most hazardous activities in aviation. Mr Farage
and his pilot were lucky to survive owing to the lack of fire, the landing on
grass rather than the hard runway and the ruggedness of the Polish-built
aircraft.

The most tricky moment in banner-towing is the pick-up, when the aircraft flies
a low pass over the airfield to hook the banner, which is strung between two
poles. Mr Farage's aircraft, owned by the Sky Banners company, could have been
making its pick-up when it ran out of control. This was suggested by police
accounts that the aircraft had just taken off and was returning to the airfield.

The main risk is that the banner becomes caught on a wheel. It can also snag on
obstructions and drag down the aircraft. In this case, the pilot pulls a lever
and drops it. With Mr Farage's Wilga, the banner would appear to have been
released since it landed some distance away.

Some accounts suggested that the Wilga could have stalled at a low height.
Stalls occur when an aircraft flies too slowly, often while turning or climbing
steeply. Another possibility is that the aircraft snagged power lines near the
runway at the Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield. Pilots and passengers survive
accidents usually because the aircraft reaches the ground under some degree of
control or if a stall has occurred at very low altitude, such as just after
take-off or just before landing.

In 2005 a pilot and passenger were killed at Bracklesham Bay, West Sussex, when
their banner-towing Cessna entered a stall while climbing away after dropping
off its banner at the end of a flight.

The investigation speculated that the banner hook might have jammed the rudder
but it found no evidence and mainly blamed pilot fatigue.

The Wilga in Mr Farage's accident is one of a long line of popular, reliable
Polish-made aircraft that are designed for utility use such as glider and
banner-towing. It takes off in a short distance and is designed to fly very
slowly.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Wilga towing the UKIP banner

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Election' 10

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 40 words


New government must restore public finances Leading article, page 2 Labour digs
in Election news and analysis, pages 3-13 UKIP man injured as air stunt goes
wrong News, pages 10, 11 Spare a thought for the devastated spouses times2life,
page 63

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

UKIP man injured as air stunt goes wrong

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 2 words


News, pages 6, 7

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 6;
                                National Edition

Cameron gears up for the biggest day of his career;
The Conservative leader sticks to soft drinks in his Witney local - and at party
HQ there is caution rather than partying, Ben Macintyre writes

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 704 words


David Cameron was in the local pub when the count in his constituency began,
before a long night that grew steadily more unpredictable for the Tory leader as
the results came in.

The mood among Conservatives moved from confident, to anxious, to resolved, when
it became clear that the party would fall short of an overall majority,
presaging a period of fierce bargaining.

The count in Witney, where Mr Cameron was defending a granite 14,000 majority,
took place in a lime-green sports hall at Windrush Leisure Centre.

Arnold Schwarzenegger, the former actor and governor of California, never slow
on the trigger, telephoned Mr Cameron to offer his congratulations just minutes
after the first exit polls.

Mr Cameron had spent the day at his constituency home. Having ended a 36-hour
cross-country campaigning marathon on Wednesday night, he caught up with some
sleep after voting in the morning. He spent part of the day chopping logs, a
form of relaxation he has recommended, and then had dinner with his family and
close aides.

Opposing him in Witney were Dawn Barnes, for the Lib Dems, and Joe Goldberg,
Labour. Count Nikolai Dmitrievich Tolstoy-Miloslavsky, the Anglo-Russian
historian, was standing for UKIP. Also standing was the self-styled "comedy
terrorist" Aaron Barschak.

A hot dog van outside the sports hall was (unofficially) taking last-minute bets
up until polls closed. Mr Cameron had had to wait for two hours to vote after
protesters climbed on to the roof of his polling station and unfurled a banner
reading: "Britons know your place. Vote Eton - vote Tory." That the protest took
place too late to have any effect perhaps illustrated how little impact Mr
Cameron's privileged education has had on the election.

Asked how he was feeling, when he went to vote, he said: "Good, thanks. I am
feeling good, I will leave it at that." This was his shortest statement in four
weeks of campaigning.

In London last night there was relief but no champagne when the exit poll
results were announced projecting 307 seats for the Tories. A few weeks ago the
prospect that they would enjoy anything less than a commanding victory would
have been unacceptable to those toiling at the Conservative campaign HQ at
Millbank. But a spokeswoman said: "There had been rumours earlier that it could
be anything between 280 and 340 seats. We have always said that it was going to
be close."

The party was being cautious. One member of the press team, looking uneasy,
tried to claim that the bash, at which guests were arriving dressed to the
nines, was nothing to do with the Conservatives. But another admitted that it
was an "election-watching" event, not a party, for staff. Some of the
expensively dressed grandees arriving in chauffeur-driven cars didn't look as
though they just made George Osborne's tea.

"There is no champagne," said a spokeswoman firmly. "Beer is the drink of
preference on a balmy night like this." In fact it was positively cool on the
bank of the Thames.

During the count in Witney, when Mr Cameron repaired to the pub for a quiet
drink, he was surrounded by the press. He drank nothing stronger than Coke,
while his pregnant wife Samantha had mineral water: "I would like to say it is a
double vodka," she joked. He squeezed on to a banquette and made small talk with
slightly star-struck drinkers.

After his result came through, with a solidly increased majority, Mr Cameron
gave a brief speech that indicated his determination to oust Gordon Brown from
No 10, but acknowledged that a period of bargaining lies ahead.

"Nationally, we have to wait. But I believe it is already clear the Labour Party
has lost its mandate to govern our country," he said. "What will guide us in the
hours ahead - and perhaps even more than the hours ahead - is what is in the
national interest."

At about 4.30am Mr Cameron arrived at Millbank to greet party workers. His
motorcade swept up in front of dozens of assembled media. He got out, carrying
his jacket, and went to help Mrs Cameron from the car. Then the couple walked in
without stopping to acknowledge shouted questions of "Are you disappointed?" and
"Do you still hope to be Prime Minister today?"

'There is no champagne. Beer is the drink on a balmy night like this'

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Camerons at a pub in Witney early today before the declaration at
the Conservative leader's Witney constituency
STEFAN ROUSSEAU / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 7, 2010 Friday

'I hope the plane doesn't blow up and crash. I'm scared, I'm scared';
A UKIP candidate who took to the sky in a polling day publicity stunt nearly
paid with his life when his aircraft crashed. David Brown reports.

BYLINE: David Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 939 words


Nigel Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence Party, was dragged from
the wreckage of an aircraft that crashed yesterday morning while pulling an
election banner.

The MEP had been trapped upside down beneath the shattered fuselage still in his
seatbelt after the aircraft nosedived to the ground when the banner became
tangled in the tail fin. Mr Farage, a candidate in the Buckingham constituency
against John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons, was knocked
unconscious. He sustained facial injuries, broken ribs and a chipped spine.

Moments before take-off he had drawn on a cigarette and joked: "I just hope the
plane doesn't blow up and crash." The 15ft banner, which read "Vote for your
country - Vote UKIP", became tangled around the tail about ten minutes into the
low-level flight as the aircraft circled to provide publicity shots.

The pilot, Justin Adams, 45, of Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, had tried six times
unsuccessfully before hooking the banner in a flying manoeuvre at the
Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield, near Brackley, Northamptonshire.

Mr Farage, 46, who resigned as the leader of UKIP last year, was taken first to
Horton Hospital in Banbury, where he was reported to have been drifting in and
out of consciousness. He was later transferred to the John Radcliffe Hospital in
Oxford.

His wife, Kirsten, was at his bedside yesterday, but later to returned to their
home in Westerham, Kent, to look after their two children.

Mr Farage is expected to remain in hospital for five to six days. Doctors said
that he had smashed two ribs, had a small chip to the spine and damage to his
sternum.

The pilot was believed to have suffered spinal injuries and was taken to
Walsgrave Hospital in Coventry by air ambulance. Last night he was in a stable
condition.

Mr Farage said: "The pilot and I have had a miraculous escape. I am bloody lucky
to be alive, I thought we weren't going to make it."

Explaining his decision to join the banner-towing flight for the third time
during the campaign, he told a friend: "I wanted to go up on election day as I
didn't want to be pictured like other politicians at a boring ballot box."

On discharge from hospital, he said that he planned to "go to the pub and have a
decent glass of rioja".

On the eve of election day, he told Ann Treneman, the Times sketchwriter, that
his motto was "work hard, play harder". He added: "I had cancer when I was young
and after that I promised that I would do it my way and have a thoroughly good
time."

Neil Hall, a photographer who was asked by Mr Farage, an MEP for South East of
England, to capture the publicity stunt on camera, said he had feared that both
men had been killed.

"His plane was about 10m off the ground when the banner became tangled in the
rear tail rudder, and it nosedived quickly into the ground," said Mr Hall, 30,
of the INS News Agency.

"One minute it was in the air, the next it was a cloud of dust. It simply
nose-dived without any warning."

Mr Hall drove across to the crash site with Duncan Barkes, Mr Farage's
spokesman, and said that he expected to find two dead bodies. "It looked like
the front of the plane had completely flattened. I could see Nigel's leg
sticking out and feared he was dead. Then I heard him moaning saying, 'Get me
out, Get me out'. Blood was pouring from his mouth. I think he had cut his lip
with his tooth. He was dazed and confused. He was conscious, but utterly scared.

"When he got out he just kept asking for his phone. He said 'I've lost my
phone'. I said 'Nigel you're in shock' and he just said 'I'm scared, I'm scared,
I'm scared'. He had a cigarette and then felt a bit better.

"He did not know what to do with himself. It was complete shock. One minute he
was in his plane thinking about his campaign or something and the next minute he
was trapped in a crashed plane. I'm surprised he didn't break his neck."

The Air Accidents Investigation Branch has started an inquiry into the crash.
The aircraft was a 15-year-old Polish-built PZL-104 Wilga 35.

Mr Farage's campaign manager described how the pilot desperately tried to call
for help in the seconds before impact. Chris Adams said: "Apparently the plane
nose-dived. We had a banner attached to the back of the plane which basically
got wrapped around the tail. The pilot had sent out a May Day signal and it
basically crashdived."

Detective Chief Inspector Martin Kinchin, of Northamptonshire Police, said:
"Looking at the wreckage behind me, I think you can make your own judgment as to
how lucky they were."

A party spokesman said: "UKIP is sure everybody involved in today's general
election will join us in hoping and praying that the pilot recovers from his
injuries as soon as possible."

When asked about how the incident might affect the party's campaign, he said:
"The main thing today is the survival of two men. It's not about political
points today."

Mr Bercow said his thoughts were with Mr Farage. "I was concerned to learn of
this morning's crash. I wish Nigel Farage and his pilot a full and speedy
recovery," he said.

The aircraft was involved in another accident while towing a banner four years
ago. An official investigation reported that it "staggered" in the air after a
wing spar snapped.

A controversial voice 6 A former commodity broker and MEP since 1999, Nigel
Farage was elected UKIP's leader in 2006 6 In February he said that Herman van
Rompuy, the EU President, had "the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of
a low-grade bank clerk" 6 Twice married, with four children, he was unrepentant
at having received nearly £2m in EU expenses, saying that it had been spent on
promoting UKIP's anti-EU message

LOAD-DATE: May 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Neil Hall
Nigel Farage is helped from the wreck. Initially only his legs could be seen
after the aircraft nose-dived and flipped. He finally emerged bleeding before he
and the injured pilot were taken to hospital

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

ENGLAND HELD TO RANSOM

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN

LENGTH: 454 words


SCOTTISH and Welsh MPs will be able to hold England to ransom in a hung
Parliament, experts are warning.

As fears grew of a constitutional crisis in the event of an unclear election
result, David Cameron said it would not be 'democratic' for the LibDems to prop
up a failed Labour government.

The Tory leader issued his first public challenge to the convention that allows
Gordon Brown to remain Prime Minister even if he is beaten by the Tories in a
hung Parliament.

There appears to be every chance that the Tories will poll more votes than
Labour - and win more seats - but fall short of the 326 needed for an overall
Commons majority.

Labour and the LibDems will then have the chance to thrash out a coalition deal.
But academics said such an outcome could fracture the United Kingdom.

Because the Tories would hold most seats in England, a Lib-Lab coalition would
not hold a majority in England. Instead, they would have to rely on the votes of
MPs from Scotland and Wales to force through English-only laws.

A Conservative minority government, trying to rule without a Commons majority,
could similarly be defeated by non-English MPs.

The Tories won more votes than Labour in England at the 2005 election and appear
certain to win both more votes and more seats today.

Polls indicate growing resentment over Labour's devolution of power to the
Scottish Parliament and the Welsh and Northern Irish assemblies. Scottish MPs
are able to vote on issues that affect only England, while their English
counterparts are not allowed to vote on the same issues in Scotland.

The Left-wing Institute for Public Policy Research predicted a full-blown
constitutional crisis could ensue if Scottish or Welsh MPs held the balance of
power in a hung Parliament.

Researcher Guy Lodge said: 'The two most likely outcomes of a hung parliament
are a Tory minority government, or some form of a Lib-Lab alliance. For either
scenario the polls consistently show that the Tories will hold a majority of the
seats in England.

'This would mean that a UK Tory minority government would be a Tory majority
government in England, but could be defeated by non-English MPs on English
business.

'More controversially, a Lib-Lab government that lacked a majority in England
would have to rely on its Scottish and Welsh MPs to push through its programme
for England.

'None of the parties appears to have grasped the territorial implications of a
hung parliament, but they could seriously affect post-election negotiations.' g
Barry Harding has decided to remain the UKIP candidate for Somerton and Frome
even though his party leader Lord Pearson has asked UKIP supporters there to
vote for the Eurosceptic Tory candidate Annunziata Rees-Mogg.

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

What will a 'hung' result bring?

BYLINE: TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 333 words


AS Brits head to the polls the question of a hung parliament hangs over the
election for the first time in 36 years.

If one party gets more than half the seats in Parliament, at least 326 out of
650, they have enough MPs to govern.

But if no one party gets 326 seats, there will be no majority and therefore a
hung parliament is created.

So who gets the keys to Number 10? In that event, Gordon Brown would remain
Prime Minister until he chooses to resign. But what if he refuses to?

Tradition, which Britain's constitution relies on to form its Parliament, means
Mr Brown, as the serving PM, would get the first chance to find enough rival
parties to form a coalition that would give them 326 seats.

Deals

The wrangling could take days, weeks even, as politicians make deals behind the
scenes.

Whatever happens, the Queen will come to Parliament on May 25 to announce what
her Prime Minister plans to do during the next year. That then gets voted on.

So if Mr Brown hasn't formed a coalition, his proposals would be voted down.
Then he would have to quit, and David Cameron would be given a go at forming a
Tory-led coalition.

If he were to fail, Britain would face a new General Election.

The last time we had a hung parliament, in 1974, we ended up back at the ballot
box within six months.

In reality, the Lib Dems' Nick Clegg, along with the SNP, are likely to be able
to exert a huge influence tomorrow.

If either party joins Labour or the Tories, they are likely to be able to
deliver a majority.

In return, the Lib Dems and SNP can demand the Prime Minister adopt some of
their policies, specifically electoral reform for the Lib Dems.

And proportional representation, where seats in Parliament are allocated more in
tune to the percentage of the total number of votes cast in the system used at
Holyrood, is a likely outcome of a hung parliament.

That would open the door to smaller parties like the BNP, Greens and UKIP in
future elections.

So today could truly change the face of British politics for ever.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nigel Farage Ukip's election hopeful [...]

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 13 words


Nigel Farage Ukip's election hopeful meets Elizabeth Grice
telegraph.co.uk/election

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Election 2010: Your guide to tonight: The race to the finish: Oliver Burkeman
offers an hour-by-hour guide to the night ahead

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: GUARDIAN NEWSPRINT SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1899 words


Battle of the swingometers

9.55pm Five minutes before the polls close, the really important contest of the
night will commence, as marathon television coverage begins on BBC1 and ITV1 and
both broadcasters reveal what are practically guaranteed to be the most absurd
swingometers in British election history. ITV, evidently inspired by Avatar, has
prepared a "bespoke virtual studio" with an interactive holographic wall and a
"3D House of Commons". The BBC simply promises "the greatest-ever swingometer" -
which it will need to be, if it's to demonstrate clearly the complex dynamics of
three-directional swing that seems likely to dominate the night.

First exit poll

10pm As polling stations close across the country, a major exit poll
commissioned by the BBC, ITV News and Sky News should give the first indication
of what the night may hold. At this early stage of the evening, representatives
of the party or parties disappointed by the exit percentages can reliably be
expected to make vigorous attempts to spin the results in their favour, probably
by mentioning the famous exit polling errors of 1992, when John Major defied the
pollsters' predictions of a hung parliament.

The first declarations

11pm-midnight The winner of the slightly pointless award for first count to be
completed - traditionally claimed by Sunderland South - is likely to go to the
new constituency of Houghton & Sunderland South, where Labour's Bridget
Phillipson should cruise to an easy victory in the party's ninth safest English
seat. (All estimated declaration times are approximate and should be taken with
a pinch of salt.) There's a chance of an upset for first declaration, though,
from nearby Sunderland Central or Washington & Sunderland West, both of which
are estimated to declare at 11.30pm. Sunderland Central isn't quite so safe for
Labour: a Tory victory here isn't likely - David Cameron has called it his "wild
card" - but might be an early sign of Armageddon for Gordon Brown.

The first bellwether

Midnight-1am The estimated declaration time for Birmingham Edgbaston - the seat
that was famously the first to switch from Conservative to Labour on the night
of Tony Blair's 1997 landslide - is 12.45am. This time round, it is number 47 on
the Tory target list, and if Gisela Stuart is ejected here, in favour of the
Conservative Deirdre Alden, many commentators will assume that Brown is on his
way out of 10 Downing Street.

The pace picks up

1am-2am Twenty-four seats are expected to declare around 1am, including South
Basildon & East Thurrock, the fabled home of "Essex Man" where Major's surprise
victory in 1992 heralded his even more surprising national victory. It's at 31
on the target list of seats the Conservatives hope to prise away from Labour.
Other seats declaring at 1am include: Congleton, where Ann Winterton is standing
down in the wake of the expenses scandal; Sittingbourne & Sheppey, a Labour
marginal transformed into a notional Tory marginal by boundary changes; and
Oldham East & Saddleworth, where any swing to the Lib Dems away from the
incumbent, immigration minister Phil Woolas, may be pored over by TV talking
heads for what it suggests about the real electoral impact of Cleggmania.

City of Durham, expected to declare around 1.30am, should give further signs of
the Lib Dems' performance - at number 23 on the Lib Dems' target list, winning
it from Labour would require a sizeable 3.7% swing.

The local impact of Bigotgate will become clear when Rochdale, home to Gillian
Duffy, declares at around 1.30am. The Lib Dems have notionally lost their narrow
majority here thanks to boundary changes, but any swing in their favour from
Labour should see them securely installed. Also at 1.30am: David Milband's safe
South Shields seat and Ipswich - where a victory for the incumbent, Labour's
Chris Mole, might hint at a hung parliament.

A further 19 seats are expected to declare around 1.30am - at around which point
viewers can probably expect the first high-profile defections from the upbeat
facades that every party's TV spokespeople will have been carefully maintaining.

The picture grows clearer

2am-3am The spate of declarations expected around 2am should bring the number of
seats declared well above the 100 mark, giving a good overall picture of how the
rest of the night will pan out. (But that doesn't mean you're allowed to go to
bed: see Portillo Moments?, below.) Watch for Dudley North, a Labour-held seat
being targeted by the Tories, who'd need a 5.7% swing to win there, and Norwich
South, Charles Clarke's seat, where Adrian Ramsay, one of a handful of
high-profile Green candidates, may suffer from the surging popularity of Nick
Clegg.

2am should also bring a triumphant, decisive victory for Gordon Brown - although
sadly only in his constituency of Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath. Jack Straw in
Blackburn, Ed Miliband in Doncaster North, Michael Gove in Surrey Heath and
Lembit Opik in Montgomeryshire are among the well-known faces whose
constituencies will declare around now. Likewise Haltemprice & Howden, where a
Lib Dem unseating of David Davis - requiring a swing away from the Tories of
5.3% - would be the stuff of Clegg's happiest dreams.

Sixty-five more seats are expected to declare at 2.30am, including Renfrewshire
East, 133 on the Tory target list, where the secretary of state for Scotland,
Jim Murphy, might find himself in danger if the Conservatives are headed for a
clear parliamentary majority. There's also Oxford East, a Labour seat the Lib
Dems now have in their sights.

Portillo moments?

3am-4am 128 more declarations are expected around 3am - if it's turning out to
be David Cameron's night, expect wide Tory smiles and a well-prepared Cameron
speech from the declaration at his seat of Witney in Oxfordshire. But 3am is
also when we're expecting a result from Morley & Outwood, where Conservatives
have been salivating at the possibility of pulling off a high-profile
"decapitation" (castration?) of the schools minister, Ed Balls. (They'd need a
swing of around 12%, though.) They face their own potential decapitation in
Dorset West, though, where Oliver Letwin is vulnerable to Lib Dem challenge - a
2.3% swing would hand them the seat.

Also watch for Eastbourne, the Tory-held seat that's number six on the Lib Dem
target list, and Luton South, where a defeat for Labour - represented by Gavin
Shuker, replacing Margaret Moran, implicated in the expenses scandal - would
point to a decisive national majority for the Tories. If Labour does well, they
may partly have Esther Rantzen to thank - she's standing here as an independent,
and is sure to help split the vote.

Other 3am results include: Ashfield, where the GMTV host Gloria de Piero is
hoping to replace Geoff Hoon for Labour; Lib Dem-held Cambridge, where the
environmentalist Tony Juniper is standing for the Greens; the ultramarginal
Finchley & Golders Green, which the Tories are expecting to seize from Labour,
thanks to new boundary changes; Alan Johnson's seat of Hull West & Hessle; Epsom
& Ewell, where controversial Tory frontbencher Chris Grayling has a secure
majority; Robin Cook's former seat of Livingston, where Labour's Jim Devine was
suspended by Labour, pending investigation for alleged expenses fraud; and
Birmingham Hall Green, where Respect's Salma Yaqoob is challenging Labour's
Roger Godsiff.

3.30am should bring results from another 66 seats, including Brighton Pavilion,
where Caroline Lucas is the Green party's best hope of a historic first
Westminster seat, and Stoke Central, where the selection of Tristram Hunt for
Labour caused anger in the local party and a breakaway campaign by a former
Labourite. The alarming prospect of a strong showing by the BNP here - it's the
third largest group on the city council, and Nick Griffin launched the party's
manifesto in Stoke - is rendered less likely thanks to the far-right party's own
disarray. They face their own breakaway campaign from former local BNP leader
Alby Walker, who said he objected to "a vein of Holocaust denying" within the
party.

If it's as bad a night for Labour as many are predicting, the last party
representative still smiling may be Alastair "Comical Ali" Campbell, whose
comments, tweets and blogposts throughout the campaign have barely acknowledged
the possibility of anything but a Labour triumph.

The final flurry

4am-6am Brew another pot of coffee, unless you're still drinking alcohol: 137
constituencies should declare around 4am, bringing the total to 550 of
parliament's 650 seats. Among the important ones are the three-way marginal of
Watford, where a 1.15% swing to the Lib Dems would unseat the Labour incumbent,
and Hammersmith, a new key Labour-Conservative marginal. Expect results also
from the new constituency of York Outer, a Liberal-Conservative contest now very
much within Nick Clegg's grasp; Islington South & Finsbury, number five on the
Lib Dems' target list, where Labour won narrowly in 2005; and Richmond Park,
which Zac Goldsmith hopes to snatch for the Conservatives from the Lib Dems.

A spate of well-known faces will also take to the stage of their local counting
centres around 4am. Look out for Charles Kennedy in Ross, Skye & Lochaber, Ken
Clarke in Rushcliffe, George Osborne in Tatton, Jon Cruddas in Dagenham &
Rainham, and Alistair Darling in Edinburgh South West, which at 161 on the Tory
target list would require a thumping 8.25% swing to gain David Cameron his
highest-profile scalp.

Some other notable declarations expected at 4am: Barking, where BNP leader Nick
Griffin is running against Margaret Hodge; Bethnal Green & Bow, where Rushanara
Ali is standing for Labour in George Galloway's old constituency; Poplar &
Limehouse, where Galloway is running against farming minister Jim Fitzpatrick;
and Hackney North & Stoke Newington, where the newspaper columnist Suzanne Moore
is running an outsider's campaign against Diane Abbott

Labour supporters, quite possibly despondent by now, can relive the original
Portillo moment by watching Stephen Twigg almost certainly become the MP for
Liverpool West Derby, which is expected to declare at 4.30am.

Around 5am, Blur drummer Dave Rowntree will discover how he has performed in the
Tory stronghold of Cities of London and Westminster. And regardless of what
happened earlier in Morley & Outwood, Yvette Cooper should defend the
Balls-Cooper family's honour with a win in Pontefract & Castleford.

The stragglers after sunrise

6am onwards David Dimbleby may at last be considering the prospect of a few
hours' rest - though if the winner is less than certain, these hours could see
not a slowing-down but rather the start of the speculation and backroom
negotiations. And so that the presenters of the Today programme don't feel left
out, 6am should see a result from Milton Keynes South, a notionally Labour-held
marginal high on the Tory target list.

It won't be until 2.30pm tomorrow that laidback vote-counters reveal the result
in Buckingham, where the Speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow, is
running without opposition from Labour or the Lib Dems, as is traditional - but
where UK Independence party's Nigel Farage has been running a high-profile
campaign to chip away at Bercow's vote.

And it won't be until 27 May that voters in Thirsk & Malton will finally have
their say - the election has been postponed as a result of the death in late
April of the UKIP candidate, John Boakes.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Cameron eyes the prize: Tories on course to regain power after 13 years:
Guardian/ICM poll shows 8-point lead over Labour: Ministers battle to squeeze
waning Lib Dem support

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour and Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 824 words


The Conservatives appeared to be on the brink of regaining power last night at
the end of one of the most tumultuous and tightly fought general election
campaigns since the second world war.

A Guardian/ICM poll last night showed the Conservatives with an eight-point lead
over Labour, just short of what they need for an overall majority. The survey
put the Conservatives on 36%, Labour on 28% and the Liberal Democrats on 26%.

There is no sign of Labour or the Lib Dems closing the gap on the Tories - and
at least three other polls published last night came up with similar results.
Only one of the four polls projected Labour gaining the largest number of seats.

If the Guardian/ICM poll correctly predicts voting patterns, it would leave
Cameron just short of an overall majority, but close to being able to rule with
the help of unionist parties, especially if the Tory seat share is pushed higher
by a stronger showing in the key marginals, the central goal of the well-funded
Tory organisation. And it would leave Nick Clegg with little option but to give
a Cameron minority government the first chance to try to push through a Queen's
speech and budget.

Last night's special poll - based on a sample double the normal size - predicted
that Conservative support would be slightly above 36%, up three on the most
recent Guardian/ICM poll but the same as another ICM poll published on Sunday.

That is eight points ahead of Labour, on 28%, identical to the last ICM poll.
The Lib Dems have fallen back slightly to 26%, down two. Other parties are on
10%, including Ukip on 3%, the BNP on 2% and Greens on 1%, with support for the
Welsh and Scottish nationalists at 3%. The tight race looks set to increase
turnout, with 69% of respondents saying they are certain to vote. To the intense
frustration of Labour cabinet ministers, Clegg has limited his options by saying
that if one party secures the largest share of the vote and most seats, they
will have a mandate to try to form a government. On the Guardian share of the
vote, and a uniform national swing, the Conservatives would win 283 seats,
Labour 253 and the Liberal Democrats 81.

But there is evidence the Tories are doing better in the marginals and may reach
as many as 300 seats. A party needs 324 seats to claim an overall majority,
assuming Sinn Fein refuses to take its expected four seats.

Paradoxically, all three parties would view this result with mixed feelings. The
Tories would be free to form a government for the first time since 1997.
Conservative support of 36% is almost four points up on the party's 2005
performance - but it is far below the party's recent ICM maximum of 45%, and
Labour's 1997 share of 43%.

The Lib Dems, whose profile has soared thanks to Clegg's performances in the
leaders' debates, would have secured their highest share of the vote, just above
the 1983 record, and made themselves a major presence in the Commons. But they
cannot be sure three-party politics would be a permanent feature of the British
constitution.

Labour would have survived the drubbing it expected at one point and avoided
tumbling to a potentially life-threatening third place.

Senior cabinet ministers were still last night trying to squeeze the Lib Dems in
the 100 or so key Labour-Tory marginals that will decide the outcome. Alan
Johnson, the home secretary, said: "The Lib Dems are on a slow puncture and the
air is coming of the tyre. Whether enough of it will come out by Thursday, I
don't know."

But Clegg was confident that he would make progress in his target seats, and his
party, for the first time in nearly a century, may be in a position to block a
Tory minority government. He and his strategists will face the delicate
political task of how hard to press the Conservatives in any formal or informal
talks on the budget and Queen's speech. Lord Mandelson, a key Labour figure in
any coalition talks, said the parties would need to talk to one another in the
event of a hung parliament.

He said the challenge would be to achieve compromise between rival parties
without "diluting your policies into a sort of lowest common denominator offer".

"You would be both responding to the outcome of the election that the public has
given you, and constructing the strongest possible programme for government in
the circumstances," he said. "People might say that compromise and co-operation
is in itself good. I would say: but not at the expense of the clear, coherent
policies that the country needs."

No one at Labour high command knows how Brown will react to a clear defeat, or
whether he will stay as prime minister. If Brown goes, there is evidence that
Harriet Harman, Labour's deputy leader, may offer herself as a transitional
18-month leader, though that move will be opposed by other senior party figures.

Leader comment, page 36 >=

6-13>=

Captions:

Tory leader David Cameron looks through a doorway before a rally in Bristol
yesterday Photograph: Toby Melville/Reuters

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Campaign 2010: The punters' election - Britain's £40m flutter on a dead cert:
uncertainty: Internet-savvy voters have doubled bookies' takings so far, but
even MPs are betting

BYLINE: Patrick Barkham

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 697 words


British voters have wagered more money on the outcome of today's general
election than on any election before, with recent surges on David Cameron and
the Liberal Democrats seeing bookmakers doubling forecasts of total election
betting from £20m up to £40m.

During the 2005 general election campaign only £10m was gambled.

A new breed of internet-savvy, politically obsessed punters are betting on the
result of the closest election in three decades, with policy advisers, spin
doctors and even candidates taking part.

Bookmakers Paddy Power and Ladbrokes report dozens of prospective and former MPs
backing themselves. One Lib Dem MP admitted he had tried to bet on the Lib Dems
winning more seats than expected before the first TV leaders' debate.
Unfortunately, the MP's attempt to bet online was blocked by his vigilant bank,
which suspected fraudulent use of his credit card, and so he missed out on
attractive odds and a likely windfall.

More money was bet on which party would win the most seats in the 24 hours after
the first TV debate than across the whole previous four years and 11 months,
according to Ladbrokes, as punters rushed to back the Lib Dems, then at 200/1 to
win most seats. As a result of Cleggmania, those odds dramatically shortened to
10/1 before falling back again to 33/1.

Most money is now going on whether there will be a hung parliament or a Tory
overall majority, but punters are also staking election night bets (first
constituency to declare), novelty bets (will Gordon Brown sack Sue Nye? after
the prime minister was overheard on an open mic blaming her for introducing
critical pensioner Gillian Duffy), and even gambling on the most accurate
polling company: YouGov is 2/1 favourite with Paddy Power.

This is the first election in which odds have been offered on all 659
constituencies and unusual betting patterns in some areas have triggered
suspicions that some candidates are putting money on themselves to show
political momentum.

There is no suggestion this has occurred in Norwich South, but Simon Wright, the
Liberal Democrat challenger to Labour's Charles Clarke, has found it useful to
be made favourite (currently 11/8 with Ladbrokes) in the unusual four-way
marginal, where the Greens have come in from 66/1 to 6/1. Wright is using
bookmakers' odds to promote his campaign.

William Hill, sponsor of the Monster Raving Loony Party, offers every Loony
candidate a free bet on how many votes they will get, to help them win back
their almost certainly lost £500 deposits.

Other three- and four-way marginals attracting big bets include Brighton
Pavilion, where the Greens are 8/11 favourites, and Buckingham, where Ladbrokes
saw a surge of support first for the former Ukip leader, Nigel Farage, and then
the independent candidate John Stevens before a return to the speaker, John
Bercow.

Bookmakers are now seeing the arrival of professional punters placing large sums
on "sure things". Ladbrokes has taken a £10,000 bet on the Conservatives to win
most seats at 1/20 - a 5% return if it comes off. Paddy Power took a £10,000 bet
on the Tories to win Chesham and Amersham at 1/100, bizarre, as it can net only
£100.

According to the bookies, most money is now going on the Tories and Paddy Power
said yesterday it would pay out on the Tories winning most seats, with punters
collecting more than £100,000.Matthew Shaddick, political odds compiler for
Ladbrokes, had the onerous job of pricing up every constituency.

He believes the country is heading for a narrow overall Tory majority and the
polls are underestimating the number of seats the Conservatives are likely to
win because they do not take into account local differences.

From examining the individual odds in each constituency, Ladbrokes predicts
310-320 seats for the Conservatives, compared with 280-290 in opinion polls.

Shaddick is personally betting on between 324 and 349 Tory seats. He also
predicts a Lib Dem win in Richmond and a surprise win for the party in Tessa
Jowell's Dulwich and West Norwood seat.

Labour should not despair, however. In 2003 Paddy Power famously paid out early
on Arsenal winning the Premier League, only to see Manchester United triumph at
the death.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Campaign 2010: Vote early, vote often! 0 days to go: Election diary Hadley
Freeman

BYLINE: Hadley Freeman

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 292 words


The end . . . or is it? For some the fun continues:

It brings a tear to the eye to think that this is the last day of the Diary
(and, oh yeah, the election campaign.)

We've had some laughs - emphasis on "some". So we can only envy the lucky, lucky
people of Thirsk and Malton who get to extend the fun for a whole three weeks
more because one of their candidates sadly passed away. Admittedly, it was the
Ukip candidate so this feels a little like cancelling the party because you
chipped your toenail polish, but no matter. Thirsk and Malton: the envy is
great.

Celebrity mentions election A nation groans:

Perhaps you are one of The Great Undecided. If only there was someone with
credibility to guide you, someone like . . . Simon Cowell. Yes, Cowell has heard
the silent cry of British voters begging him for his opinion on the election and
he has answered, an event so seismic that the Sun adorably deemed it front-page
news. So who does he choose? Well, it's hard to see through the names of his own
shows, which are named five times more frequently than he does any candidate.
Cowell supports Cowell! Front! Page! News!

Keep dancing A key issue: possibly not:

The New York Times has, thrillingly, found a whole new possible game changer in
the UK election - dance. "It's tempting to dismiss the notion," admits the
paper, before it barrels on gamely. Apparently, we Britons are very "dance
aware" - and yes, Strictly Ballroom is cited - and, thus, care deeply about each
parties' dance

policy. Maybe. "As a voter concern, financing for the arts is generally ranked
lower than education, unemployment, the armed forces, immigration, law and
order, and health services," the article concedes. "But everything is in the air
in this election." Isn't it just.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Leading article: In praise of... fighting the good fight

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 251 words


There is not one election but 649 separate elections being held today, to say
nothing of the locals. While the war for Downing Street will be waged through
these disparate battles, mighty causes are at stake in many individual
skirmishes too.

Jon Cruddas in Dagenham and Margaret Hodge in Barking are Labour beasts of very
different breeds, yet both are in the frontline of the struggle against the BNP.
Evan Harris is fighting to retain Oxford West for the Lib Dems while he is
branded Dr Death by zealots who resent his unflinching stance on euthanasia and
reproductive rights. In Brighton, Caroline Lucas is striving to break into the
Palace of Westminster on behalf of the Greens, while Salma Yaqoob in Birmingham,
who seeks to do the same for the militantly anti-war Respect, could also make
history as one of the first female Muslim MPs. Along with new voices seeking to
make themselves heard are candidates standing to defend venerable traditions.
The Speaker, John Bercow, has done much to restore the standing of that great
office. But his hopes of continuing to chair the Commons from above the party
fray is under threat in Buckingham, both from UKIP and from breakaway
pro-European Tories. This little list of today's important local endeavours is
far from exhaustive, and not every reader would want to support everyone on it.
But when political names are so often mud, we should be grateful for those still
willing to take a case to the people, and to seek the chance to speak on their
behalf.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

General election 2010: What if the media has got it all wrong?

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 455 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Given the large number of undecided voters almost anything could
happen - but probably won't

FULL TEXT

What if the media has got this election all wrong? It wouldn't be the first
time, would it? Newspapers and telly types are like doctors: they bury their
mistakes.

Remember how Tony Blair and his cronies were supposed to be going to jail? How
Kate and Gerry McCann supposedly did away with their own child? How all those
Icelandic banks were as safe as houses - so the UK newspaper ads told readers -
until they weren't?

After all, the pollsters' extrapolations about voting intentions - the Tories
set to win, Labour to come a poor second and the Lib Dems threatening a spoiler
- rests on an unusually large number of undecided voters, appropriate to such
uncertain times.

In this scenario public anger and disappointment - about all sorts of things -
bubbles away below the surface - the phrase someone used to me in semi-feudal
Witney this week - but doesn't emerge until people are in the polling booth,
pencil in hand.

Then a "sod them all" red mist descends. In large numbers voters put their Xs
against ANYONE BUT DAVE OR GORDON. The Lib Dems prove to be the chief
beneficiaries, but far from the only ones.

The Nats do well, even in Scotland where they have been trailing Labour. The
"sod you" mood helps Jim Allister's Ulster Voice damage the Paisley-ite DUP in
Northern Ireland, which sets up trouble ahead.

Ukip unexpectedly takes Buckingham from Speaker Bercow, plus a couple of others.
Even the BNP manages to elect an MP - in Dagenham or Stoke, take your pick. The
Greens win in Brighton Pavilion and in Norwich.

Financial markets panic as news spreads. The drama is instantly dubbed the
Peasants' Revolt. The Telegraph, Mail and Sun - its page one message  are
furious with their readers - how dare they disobey our advice! - but can't say
so.

The major parties are quick to take the hint. A government of national unity is
formed, including senior figures from the three big parties. As the party leader
with the most seats, David Cameron becomes prime minister, but Alistair Darling
takes Vince Cable as his Treasury deputy and Nick Clegg becomes home secretary.

Gordon Brown decides his duty is to accept the will of the people and stand
aside - though he remains Labour leader. David Miliband stays at the Foreign
Office. Markets rally.

Rabble-rousing predictions that Britain will descend into Greek chaos - the
Mail's desperate election day ploy on its front page - are shown up as the
scaremongering tactics they are. But tough years lie ahead.

No, I don't think it's going to turn out like this tonight either. But it's
always worth thinking the unthinkable.

Now, I'm off to vote.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Ukip's Nigel Farage injured in aeroplane crash

BYLINE: Matthew Weaverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 384 words

ABSTRACT

Nigel Farage suffers minor injuries after two-seater aircraft towing Ukip banner
crash-lands in Northamptonshire

FULL TEXT

The former Ukip leader Nigel Farage escaped with minor head injuries after a
light aircraft towing a "Vote Ukip" banner crashed in Northamptonshire this
morning.

The two-seater plane crash landed at  near Brackley. Farage was taken to Horton
hospital in Banbury after witnesses saw him walking out of the aircraft covered
in blood.

A source at the hospital confirmed that Farage was admitted this morning,
although there are conflicting reports about the extent of his injuries. "He's
going to be fine," a spokeswoman for Ukip said.

His agent, Chris Adams, told BBC News that Farage had been "drifting in and out
of consciousness and is now being X-rayed".

He added: "Nigel was unconscious but he can talk."

The pilot was more seriously hurt with back injuries. He was taken to John
Radcliffe hospital in Oxford after being cut of out the plane.

TV footage showed extensive wreckage to the fixed wing plane which lay upside
down in field 20m from the airstrip.

The plane was towing a banner with the slogan "Vote for your country - Vote Ukip
". Eyewitnesses said the banned became caught up in the plane's tail fin.

A Ukip spokesman said: "We've had unconfirmed reports that either the banner got
snagged up or there were cross-winds and it was an unfamiliar airfield to the
pilot, who had to be cut out of the plane."

The aircraft was believed to be a 1960s-style biplane which left the Winchester
area early today and flew into Hinton.

The accident happened as it was taking off again from Hinton, the spokesman
said. The plane was due to fly over the counties of Buckinghamshire, Oxfordshire
and Northamptonshire.

A Northamptonshire Police spokesman said: "Just after 8am a light aircraft came
down at Hinton in the Hedges airfield near Brackley in Northamptonshire.

"Two people were on board the aircraft, pilot and passenger, and both suffered
what are believed to be minor injuries."

The crash is being investigated by the Air Accidents Investigation Branch
supported by Northamptonshire Police.

Farage, an MEP for the South East of England, is standing for election in
Buckingham against the speaker John Bercow. He stood down as the leader of Ukip
last year.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

General election 2010: Polling stations report high turnout

BYLINE: Matthew Weaverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 636 words

ABSTRACT

· Final polls show Tories on brink of regaining power· Former Ukip leader Nigel
Farage hurt in plane crash· Protestors scaled roof of Cameron's polling station


FULL TEXT

David Cameron was the first of the main party leaders to cast his vote day amid
early signs that turnout in one of the most closely contested elections for
decades will be high.

As the final polls showed the Conservatives on the brink of regaining power, the
Tory leader smiled at reporters and photographers but made few comments at
polling station at Spelsbury Memorial Hall in Witney, Oxfordshire.

"I am feeling good, I will leave it at that," he said.

showed the Conservatives with an eight-point lead over Labour, just short of
what they need for an overall majority. The survey put the Conservatives on 36%,
Labour on 28% and the Liberal Democrats on 26%. If the predictions are correct,
it could leave Cameron just short of an overall majority, but close to being
able to rule with the help of unionist parties.

Half an hour after Cameron voted, Gordon Brown and his wife, Sarah, turned up at
the North Queensferry polling station, to cast their vote in the Kirkcaldy and
Cowdenbeath constituency.

Minutes later Nick Clegg, accompanied by his wife, voted at a polling station in
Sheffield Hallam.

Polling stations opened at 7am, with the electorate having until 10pm to cast
their votes. There were early signs of a high turnout. Tellers at polling
stations in the London seat of Chingford and Woodford Green, reported the
busiest start to a general election polling day they could remember.

One said: "Voters have been streaming in from the moment the polling station
opened."

The mayor of London, Boris Johnson, predicted an "enormous" turnout as he cast
his vote at polling station in Islington, north London.

"I think this has been a transformatory election campaign. I think people have
been more enthused and more interested than by any one I can remember," he said.

Attention on the polls was dramatically diverted when a light aircraft carrying
the  when a "vote Ukip" banner got caught in the engine.

Farage, who is standing against the Commons Speaker, John Bercow, in Buckingham
escaped with head injuries. The pilot was airlifted to hospital with serious
back injuries.

Britain's newspaper's sought to assert their influence on the result with
dramatic front pages, which mostly backed the Conservatives. The Rupert
Murdoch-owned Sun likened David Cameron to Barack Obama by mocking-up an image
of the Tory leader in the red and blue stencil style of Obama's iconic Hope
posters.

The Sun's stablemate, the Times, carried a front page editorial claiming the
Tories were best placed to tackle Britain's debt. The Daily Mail's front page
suggested Britain would descend into Greek-style riots if there was a hung
parliament.

But the Labour-supporting Mirror questioned David Cameron's credentials as a
would-be prime minister by reminding readers of his upper class background. In
its last edition it  on the use of an infamous picture of the Bullingdon Club in
1987 which showed the future Tory leader in top coat and tails.

That theme was taken up by two protesters this morning who scaled the roof of
Cameron's polling station in his Witney constituency in Oxfordshire.

One of the men dressed in a blazer and boater, unfurled a banner with the slogan
"Britons know your place. Vote Eton - vote Tory."

The two men later came down peacefully. The stunt delayed Cameron's planned
appearance at the polling station.

As well as the 650 MPs of the new parliament, voters are also electing
councillors in 166 local authorities across England - including London boroughs
- and mayors in Hackney, Lewisham, Newham and Watford.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Cleethorpes: the acid test for Cameron's victory hopes;
Michael Brown revisits his old seat to find his party in a two-horse race with
Labour

BYLINE: Michael Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 793 words


Back to Cleethorpes to clank my chains from the political grave 13 years after
the flame-haired Blair babe, Shona McIsaac, ended my 18-year career as a Tory
MP. My task: to identify the likely winner, haunt the candidates and find out
whether "Meggies" have become Cleggies. Inhabitants of this traditional seaside
resort are known locally as Meggies and, apart from the fact that this will be a
close fought contest between Ms McIsaac and Martin Vickers, her Tory rival who
stood against her in 2005, I want to know whether the locals are embracing the
recent national outbreak of Cleggmania.

Ms McIsaac is known as "Shona" and has successfully managed to achieve local
recognition in the same way that Boris Johnson needs no use of his surname in
London. Her eight-page tabloid Election Special 2010 newspaper is entitled "News
from Shona" and contains no mention anywhere of the words "Gordon Brown" or
"Prime Minister". You could be forgiven for thinking that there is no candidate
standing that actually represents the Labour Party. The Shona Party is, however,
mounting a huge defensive campaign against the well-organised and well-funded
Tory machine. The seat is 59th in the Tories' top targets and requires a swing
of just 3 per cent. For the past 30 years whichever party has won Cleethorpes
has formed the government.

Shona meets me for a fish and chip lunch at my excellent hotel - the Dovedale,
just off the seafront - on a glorious spring day when Cleethorpes really does
look as beautiful as San Tropez. We've become good friends since I "crossed the
floor" from politics to journalism after she sent me packing in 1997. She has
just celebrated her 50th birthday but is still the youngest candidate in the
constituency. Her effervescence is as overwhelming as her hugs and kisses.

She knows she's up against it but is surprisingly chipper. After the European
elections last year, which coincided with the expenses scandal (she was
unaffected) and the attempted coup against Gordon Brown by Hazel Blears and
James Purnell, she had pretty well resigned herself to defeat. But with the
polls narrowing, and the rise of the "Clegg effect", she is now giving it
everything she's got.

Next morning it's time to join Mr Vickers, who is a well-known local councillor
of 25 years standing. At 60, he is likely to be the oldest "new boy" in the
Commons if he wins. Born in the town he is as Meggie as a stick of Cleethorpes
rock. He halved Shona's majority in 2005 and wants to capitalise on his
successful campaign, which persuaded David Cameron to promise that a Tory
government would stimulate investment opportunities for struggling seaside
resorts. We meet his loyal band of activists in a traditional seaside cafe
before a press photocall of the two of us (past Tory MP meets future Tory MP) on
the beach. Another lunch at my hotel reveals that Mr Vickers is not likely to be
the type of MP permanently "on-message" and, without being disloyal, he is not
exactly putting Mr Cameron's do-it-yourself "Big Society" centre stage of his
campaign. He is unlikely to be admitted to the Cameroon Notting Hill set should
he get to Westminster.

I head off back to the Dovedale to meet the Liberal Democrat candidate, Malcolm
Morland. He was once a Labour councillor but defected after the Iraq war.
Articulate and forceful, he goes through the motions of saying he can win. He is
also well-known and is a lecturer at one of the local colleges. His evidence for
his prospects is that his party is in minority control of the council. Later the
same evening he and Mr Vickers will put on their local government hats to spar
against each other at a full council meeting. He says he does not want to
overplay the Clegg factor - and although he won't admit it, his impact is likely
to be measured by the extent to which he takes votes from the other two parties.
I suspect he will unwittingly damage Shona's chances and make a Tory victory
more likely. But he says he is taking votes equally from both parties.

This is a must-win seat for the Tories. Failure would mean Mr Cameron not even
becoming Prime Minister of a minority Tory government. The odds given by the
local bookies put Mr Vickers at 6/1 on with Shona 7/2 against. There's an
outside chance that UKIP could spoil Mr Vickers' path to Parliament - last time
the UKIP vote was only 600 votes less than Shona's majority - but, barring an
upset, I suspect Shona will be joining me and Lord Archer in the Cleethorpes
ex-MPs' party.

CLEETHORPES 2005 RESULT

* LABOUR Shona McIsaac, 18,889 (43.3%)

* CONSERVATIVE Martin Vickers, 16,247 (37.3%)

* LIB DEM Geoff Lowis, 6,437 (14.8%)

* UKIP William Hardie 2,016 (4.6%)

* LABOUR MAJORITY 2,642; Turnout: 43,589 (61.6%); Swing required for
Conservatives to win in 2010: 3.05%

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Which constituencies to watch: a brief guide to results night;
From Brighton Pavilion to Ynys Mon, the key seats to look out for and what they
signify. By Andy McSmith

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 827 words


So you've decided to sit up until the early hours, watching the results on TV,
and for a long time nothing happens, then suddenly a flood of results pour in.
When you hear that the Lib Dems have held Nether Wallop, or that the Tories have
taken Coketown Central off Labour, what are you to make of it? Is it
significant, or what was expected? As your guide to the confusion, here is a
breakdown of when certain constituencies are expected to announce their results,
and what they might signify.

11pm Houghton & Sunderland

Bridget Phillipson, for Labour, will be the first victor of the night, unless
there has been an electoral earthquake in the North.

12am Lagan Valley

David Cameron is hoping this will be a victory for Daphne Trimble, wife of the
former Northern Ireland First Secretary.

12.45am Birmingham Edgbaston

This was the first seat Labour took from the Tories in 1997. It could be the
first they take back.

1am Basildon South & Thurrock

When Basildon stayed Tory in 1992, it was the moment Labour knew that they had
lost. It is likely to be the same story tonight, unless Labour's Angela Smith
clings on against the odds.

Battersea

If the Conservatives cannot take this one, they can pack up and go home.
Labour's majority in 2005 was 163.

Ynys Mon

This is Plaid Cymru's best chance of taking a seat from Labour.

1.30am Durham City

There has not been a non-Labour MP in any County Durham seat since 1992, but the
Lib Dems hope to change that.

Rochdale

This is the Lib Dems' target seat No 3. Scene of "Bigotgate", so they should
take it.

2am Dudley South

The Conservatives need a 4.5 per cent swing to take this off Labour. If they
succeed, they are on course to be the biggest party in the new Parliament.

Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath

Gordon Brown will be the first of the party leaders to hold his seat.

2.30am Renfrewshire East

The Scottish Secretary Jim Murphy could lose this seat if there is a 7 per cent
swing to the Conservatives.

Stockton South

This is a result to watch, because it is a Labour seat, but the Tories can take
it on a 6.5 per swing. If they can achieve that across the country, they should
have an outright majority in the new Commons.

3am Morley & Outwood

The Conservatives are hoping that this result will be the highlight of the
night, because this is the seat being contested by the Education Secretary Ed
Balls. The Tories would love to take it, but they could be disappointed.

Salford & Eccles

Hazel Blears will probably survive here, despite the expenses scandal, because
it is a Labour stronghold.

3.30am Brighton Pavilion

If the results in recent council elections are repeated, Caroline Lucas will
become Britain's first ever Green MP.

Eltham

The Tories need a swing of less than 4 per cent to take Eltham off Labour. If
they cannot manage that, they could well find that they are not even the biggest
party in the new Parliament.

Stoke-on-Trent Central

Historian Tristram Hunt ought not to have any trouble holding this safe Labour
seat, but the party is so divided locally that there could be a substantial
swing to the BNP.

4am Barking

The BNP leader Nick Griffin is challenging Labour's Margaret Hodge. If she wins,
there will be cheers in all the other parties' headquarters.

Crawley

Labour's most marginal seat, which they held by 37 votes last time, now a
near-certain Tory gain.

Kingswood

According to some calculations, this is the decider. If the Conservatives take
this seat off Labour, they will have an outright majority in the Commons.

Romsey & Southampton North

The Lib Dems' most marginal seat. They will be relieved if they can hold it.

4.30am Liverpool Wavertree

This used to be a solid Labour seat, but the new candidate, Luciana Berger, is
under serious threat from the Liberal Democrats.

5am Redditch

The former Home Secretary Jacqui Smith is fighting gamely to hold on, but is
likely to lose.

6am Hampstead & Kilburn

The former Oscar-winning actress Glenda Jackson will have a struggle holding
this one for Labour. It will take a swing of only half a per cent to the Lib
Dems to see her unseated.

7am North Cornwall

The last declaration of the night could be a cliff-hanger. It is a Liberal
Democrat seat, but the candidate, Dan Rogerson, is new and he could be at risk
from the Conservatives.

But if you are thinking of staying up to see whether the Speaker John Bercow can
beat off the challenge from the former Ukip leader Nigel Farage in Buckingham -
don't bother. It is one of 23 counts that are being postponed until Friday. The
result is expected around 2.30pm.

For the same reason, the youngest MP in the last Parliament, the Conservative
Chloe Smith, will have to wait to find out whether she has held Norwich North,
which she took from Labour in a by-election.

As to whether Anne McIntosh has held Thirsk & Malton, in Yorskhire for the
Tories - that one will have to wait until 27 May, because the Ukip candidate,
John Boakes, died suddenly after his nomination papers had been submitted.
However, you may put it down as a near-certain Tory hold.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday

Letters - SNP are 'least right-wing' choice

LENGTH: 203 words


On reading Tommy Morrison's letter (M Star, May 3), I half expected him to
advocate a vote for UKIP as his parting shot.

Why? Because policies in favour of the Act of Union and withdrawal from the EU
are apparently Tommy's litmus test for support.

In contrast, consistently supporting workers in struggle, arguing for an
expanded public sector - including nationalisation of the banks - calling for a
progressive taxation system, supporting unilateral nuclear disarmament and
opposing imperialist wars, as the SSP has done.

But this doesn't seem to make much of an impact on Tommy.

In Dundee East, voters will be given a choice of UKIP, Green, SSP, SNP or the
usual British suspects. As a socialist, I would vote SSP.

If I lived in Glasgow North West I would vote CPB. If I lived in East Kilbride I
would vote Green.

Where I do live, Rutherglen and Hamilton West, I will be voting SNP.

I will do so not because they are left-wing in any meaningful way but because
they represent the least right-wing choice.

They have supported more policies with which I agree than the four alternatives.

No doubt some would have me vote for a pro-war, pro-Trident, pro-privatisation,
pro-cuts Labour Party.

No thanks.

David Stevenson, Cambuslang.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 6, 2010 Thursday 4:37 PM GMT

Election day: polling stations are now open

BYLINE: By Will Heaven

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 123 words


At last, election day is here. From 7am until 10pm this evening, polling
stations will be open across 649 UK constituencies(the general election in
Thirsk and Malton has been countermanded to May 27 following the death of John
Boakes, the UKIP candidate).

If you're a first-time voter, the BBC has a helpful guide on what to do - as
does the electoralcommission, though the accompanying cartoon is somewhat
patronising.

If you're having a last-minute wobble, you may find the Telegraph'sHow should I
vote? test helpful. And for a reminder of all your local candidates, check out
our UK Political Database.

For up to the minute coverage of the election results, Telegraph Blogs is the
place to be: our results UK Election Live Blog begins at 9pm.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 6, 2010 Thursday 12:02 PM GMT

Nigel Farage plane crash: the perils of election travel

BYLINE: By Harry Mount

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 259 words


I do hope Nigel Farage is OK after his plane crashed in Northamptonshire and he
received a head injury; thankfully not a life-threatening one.

The mad dash of the election trail can be a dangerous thing. Candidates have to
criss-cross the country in the build-up to election day, making bigger and
bigger jumps from county to county. The distances aren't mammoth, like in
America, where presidential candidates are more likely to use private jets. But
they are still pretty big, and only doable by light aeroplane, like the one
Farage was in, or by helicopter; both more dangerous than a jet or commercial
airliner.

I spent a day with David Cameron on the campaign trail, and the only way we
could cover England and Wales effectively in a day was by helicopter. We took
off from Battersea Heliport at 8am, zipped across to Broughton in north Wales in
a couple of hours, and then hopped down the borders via Telford and ended up at
the SAS airstrip in Hereford. We got back to Battersea in time for Cameron to
bathe his children at home.

It was all very exhilarating.But the margins were so tight that it was all done
at breakneck speed; not much time for safety instructions, or second-guessing
theweather - just race across the tarmac, buckle upand you're in the air within
seconds. At the time it seemed a wonderful corrective to the hours spent
checking in on commercial flights and going through the safety routines. But it
looks like more caution should have been taken with Farage's plane where, it's
reported, a UKIP banner gottangled up with the plane.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 6, 2010 Thursday 9:13 AM GMT

Vote Tory to get rid of Labour. But Dave should ask himself why he isn't 15
points ahead

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 645 words


At last we have come to the end of a very disappointing election campaign, which
started with a fashion contest between the wives of the leaders, moved on
through Cleggophilia, and finished on tactical voting while scarcely giving more
than a glance at those three great elephants, debt, the EU and immigration.

At least Mr Blair can be proud of the progress that has been made towards a
truly modern multicultural society with a series of investigations into
ballot-rigging.That was unknown in my day (outside Northern Ireland), but now it
seems we have a delegation fromCommonwealth countries such as Kenya coming here
to see how we do it.

At the end of the campaignI have no hesitation in repeating the advice I gave at
the beginning.The overwhelming priority is to get rid of NuLab.The only way to
do that at this election is to cast your votes for Conservative candidates
wherever they have a chance of winning.Of course I understand that some of those
votes will be cast more in the hope than theexpectation of a Conservative
government, or more in the hope of a holding operation against the slide to a
poverty-stricken multicultural province of Brussels than a decisive victory of
the British people for their independence.

Well, even after Churchill became Prime Minister 70 years ago, there were a good
many of those holding operations before the tide was turned.

While I continue to take the Conservative Whip in Parliament I will continue to
argue from within the Partyfor what I hold to be true Conservative values, but I
cannot ask anyone to votefor another party and against an officialConservative
candidate.All the same, I can well understand that in seats where the Tory
candidate has no hope of winning, some electors might be tempted to support
UKIP, and better that than a Lib Dem or Labour Eurofanatic.

The Tories should be riding high, 15 points or more ahead in the polls.It is not
the fault of the electors that this is not so. It is the fault not of the Lib
Dems or NuLab but the Conservatives themselves.I hope that if Mr Cameron becomes
Prime Minister he will learnthat lesson.

It was rather good to find a consensus that Cameron should not go into a
coalition, but should ask the IMF to give a report on the state of the national
books.

With some caveats, 'Hamish Redux', 'young wet and tory', 'mickypea', 'old bat',
'delboy36', 'snoeki' and 'Tom Kydd' seemed to broadly agree about that. It is
rather a pity that Mr Cameron seems to contemplating a deal with the DUP which
might cut across what the IMF might think best.

'Webmaster' asked if I agree that the overseas aid budget should be sacrosanct.
No I do not.Charity begins at home.He also marked up that extraordinaryinterview
with Lord (Tim) Bell in The People. Well, I have known Tim for many years and,
as sincerely as he might think he helped deliver Margaret Thatcher's election
victory in 1987, I, and almost everyone else involved, regarded him as a bigger
threat to it than the Labour Party.Even so, I would never have expected him to
take advantage of Margaret Thatcher's infirmity bygiving his version of a
private conversation he says he had with the lady, in orderto help a Labour
newspaper spike Cameron's campaign. What is more, I cannot imagine that she
would ever havesaid she would "eat anyone for breakfast".

As for poor old 'debunker', he cannot see the difference between income tax and
a charge set locally for the services of a local authority.Funnily enough, the
fashionable trendies are now talking about household charges for the collection
of rubbish by volume or weight. Sounds like a creeping conversion to community
charge to me.As to the Enfield Independent poll, I would just be surprised if it
has any relation at all to the real poll numbers.

May Ithank (almost) all for you comments on this blog site. And I hope you won't
forget to vote. (Most of you, anyway.)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If, like me, you're going to be up all night, here are some wines to keep you
company;
Wine

BYLINE: Tim Atkin

SECTION: THE TABLE;FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1002 words


If his diaries are to be believed, the late Alan Clark always went to bed early
on New Year's Eve, avoiding noisy parties to get a good night's kip in his
castle at Saltwood, Kent.

Some of you may be considering a similar approach to the election results this
evening. Give or take the castle, you'll be retiring at 10pm with a book and
nothing stronger than a mug of cocoa. If so, this column is not for you.

I love elections. Even if the outcome is as predictable as tomorrow's sunrise, I
enjoy the sense of occasion, the feeling that I'm participating in a great
democratic settling of scores. But there's something else, too. Tonight gives me
an excuse to truff le through my cellar in search of wines from previous general
election years.

For as long as I can remember, the wine writer Oz Clarke has held an election
night party at his house. We, his friends, just have to turn up with a bottle.
Whoever wins this evening, we will be drinking wines from 1979, 1983, 1987,
1992, 1997, 2001 and 2005. It's a clever way of defusing the tension. No matter
which party you support - and how badly it's doing - there's always something
interesting to drink.

Actually, we winos could have been better served by our prime ministers' sense
of timing. With the exception of 2005, which is still young, and (in some
regions) 1983 and 2001, recent UK election years haven't coincided with great
vintages.

If you take Bordeaux as your reference point, 1979, 1987, 1992 and 1997 were all
poor or mediocre years. Think how much better things would be if we'd had
elections in 1982, 1986, 1990, 1995 and 2000 and were drinking those vintages
instead.

If you don't want to adopt the Oz Clarke model, you could choose a wine that
shares the name of the man you'd like to be the next prime minister. There's a
precedent for this. In the last US presidential election, Palin syrah, an
organic red from Chile, received a lot of attention. Sales plummeted in
Democratic San Francisco, but did brilliantly in Texas, and presumably Alaska.
Ideal with moose meat ... Here in the UK, Conservative voters might be tempted
by the sound of the Cameron Winery in Oregon's Willamette Valley, but probably
not for long. One of its wines, Vino Pinko, has a sketch of Che Guevara on the
label, while its website looks distinctly left-field. I doubt they'll be
drinking that at Central Office.

Or what about something from Brown Brothers in Australia? Drinking a tarrango
from Down Under would give Labour supporters the chance to show solidarity with
Gordon, possibly for the last time before he's defenestrated on Friday morning.
In fact, the wine is doubly appropriate. If Labour does as badly as many
commentators predict it will do, emigration to Australia might be a tempting
option.

As far as I know, there are no wineries with a Nick Clegg connection. The only
link between vino and the leader of the Liberal Democrats - and it's a tenuous
one - is the character of Norman Clegg in The Last of the Summer Wine. Maybe Lib
Dems could leave the DVD running while they drink something more appropriate? To
cover most of the political spectrum, I've picked six wines for tonight. As well
as that Brown Brothers red, there's an English wine for UKIP supporters, an
organic Muscadet (with an appropriately low carbon footprint) from the Loire for
Greens, a Spanish red for Lib Dems, produced close to the home town of Nick
Clegg's wife, and a claret for Tories. This may sound dangerously European to
the Eurosceptic wing of the party, but remember that Bordeaux was in English
hands from 1152 to 1453, thanks to the marriage between Eleanor of Aquitaine and
the future Henry II.

Last of all, I've chosen a fantastic fizz. Whoever wins tonight, months and
possibly years of cost-cutting and austerity will follow. The early hours of
tomorrow morning could be the last time you'll feel like drinking champagne for
a while.

www.timatkin.com Join readers for a Live Times Table Talk with Jane MacQuitty on
rosé wines today at 1pm timesonline.co.uk/wine SIX ELECTION NIGHT WINES 2008
Brown Brothers Tarrango, Victoria (from £6.29, 13.5 per cent, Tesco, Waitrose,
The Co-operative, Sainsbury's) Made from a grape that was developed in Australia
in the 1960s (by crossing touriga nacional and sultana), this is like an Aussie
version of a basic Beaujolais. Light, fruity and red cherry-scented.

2008 Chapel Down Flint Dry, Kent (£7.69, 11.5 per cent, Waitrose) The grape
varieties may be suspiciously German (huxelrebe, schönburger, bacchus and
reichensteiner, since you asked), but the wine is as English as a morris
dancer's bells. A crisp, nettley, bone dry white with teeth-tingling acidity.

2007 Domaine de L'Ecu Muscadet de SÈvre et Maine, Expression de Gneiss (£10.99,
12 per cent, Vintage Roots, 0800 980 4992; www.vintageroots.co.uk) The best
Muscadet I've had in years. Guy Bossard's bio-dynamic, age-worthy wines are as
complex as many a white Burgundy, but at a fraction of the price. Mealy and
rich.

2006 Legaris Crianza, Ribera del Duero (£13.99, or £11.19 by the mixed case, 14
per cent, Oddbins) Appropriately youthful and appealing to Hispanophile red wine
drinkers, this full-bodied yet appealingly elegant all-tempranillo red is oaky
and aromatic with bright red and black fruits and firmish tannins.

2007 Les Tourelles de Longueville Pauillac (£23.99, 13.5 per cent, selected
branches of Tesco; www.tesco.com/wine) Like David Cameron, this may seem
unpalatably young to some, but it's actually a very forward, eminently palatable
red Bordeaux. Savoury tannins, sweet oak, fresh acidity and merlot-dominated
fruit.

Taittinger Prélude Grands Crus Champagne (£30, 12 per cent, Majestic) Reduced
from £45 until further notice, this is just the thing to drink on election
night. It's an equal blend of chardonnay and pinot noir, showing delicious,
bottle-developed notes of toast and grilled nuts, elegant bubbles and a long
aftertaste.

Tonight gives me an excuse to truff le through my cellar in search of wines from
previous general election years

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A sad little drama about a grumpy Tory llama;
MyWeek

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 769 words


Overnight last Thursday, after the final TV debate between the three party
leaders, one of my llamas died. Her name was Imp and, the oldest of our little
herd (she was about 17), she had been unwell for some time. We found her in the
wood on Friday.

Imp, a deer-like, chestnutcoloured llama, was the only obvious Tory supporter in
the herd. She had met and liked Nick Clegg, been fed corn by David Blunkett, and
responded positively to the Labour candidate for our Derbyshire Dales
constituency, Colin Swindell. But in the end she had requested a VOTE
CONSERVATIVE: PATRICK McLOUGHLIN poster for her field. It had not arrived in
time. Truth to tell, Imp was a bit of a GOC (grumpy old camelid), but steadfast,
loyal and viscerally opposed to change.

News had, in fact, reached her on the evening of her death that David Cameron
had triumphed in the final TV debate, and I like to think she died relieved. But
it's a sadness that Imp did not quite live to see the arrival of a Conservative
government. She came so close. If only she could have hung on until tomorrow.

Grey's elegy Amid the excitement of a close-fought general election campaign it
will not have surprised the late Antony Grey that few paused for long to remark
his death this week, aged 82: in his later years he had grown accustomed to
being almost written out of the script by many modern gay rights campaigners.
This is no place for an obituary (Antony's appeared in The Times yesterday);
suffice it to say that Grey stood up to be counted when little but public
embarrassment awaited those brave enough to do so.

He was one of the quiet, dogged campaigning forces behind that one really
epoch-making homosexual law reform: Roy Jenkins's 1967 Sexual Offences Act: the
first measure to begin legalising homosexuality.

Nowhere then was it fashionable to be gay. As Peter Tatchell observed this week,
Grey was a trailblazer. Once a trail is blazed, walking down it looks easier to
those who follow. It was easier for us, who followed him; and easier still for
today's young gay men and women who follow us. But I think Antony will have
known that people who know, know what he did.

Graphic analysis Last week (April 28) The Times published a PowerPoint chart
called Afghanistan Stability, devised by COIN Dynamics. The chart attempts -
using text and myriad multicoloured arrows - to lay out all the big
considerations in the governance of Afghanistan. There are scores of them, in
different kinds and sizes of lettering, with at least a hundred arrows swirling
furiously this way and that. The whole thing looks like a terrible mid-air
collision between a consignment of spaghetti and a drum of alphabet soup. It's
fair to say that we on The Times rather made fun of the whole charting exercise.

The report provoked a polite protest on our letters page (May 3) from the
company who produced the chart, pointing out that this was an "attempt to
grapple with complexity", and an easy target for cheap shots from those who like
their analysis over-simple.

May I suggest that both sides to this dispute are wrong? One glance at the chart
is enough to justify the conclusion that the presentation is preposterously
complex and beyond analysis. But a slightly longer glance at Afghanistan is
enough to justify the conclusion that the country itself is preposterously
complex and beyond analysis.

The effect of this chart - on me at least - is not to assist my understanding of
how this wild place might better be governed, but to confirm my suspicion that
it is beyond our capabilities to try. A chart that makes you scream and give up
has, in this case, achieved a very useful purpose.

Get knotted On BBC television's The Daily Politics on Tuesday morning, the
presenter, Andrew Neil, impeccably dressed as always, teased me (genially) for
not wearing a suit and tie to discuss the general election campaign. I
understand, meanwhile, that the presenter Jon Sopel has been ordered by BBC
bosses to wear a tie throughout: his trademark open-necked shirts have been
banned.

Where has the idea arisen that a national election is some kind of pomp and
circumstance State Occasion, like a royal funeral? What next? Will women
presenters be wearing hats? It might help all of us boffins and politicians cut
our own contributions down to size if we were obliged to wear leopard-skin
leotards, big brass nipple rings and cotton-wool tails throughout.

Scaled down So in that spirit, congratulations to the UKIP parliamentary
candidate for Derbyshire Dales, Ian Guiver, whose e-mail address ends with
madasafish.com. Self-knowledge is surely the beginning of political wisdom.

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Your up-all-night survival guide as the results come in

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 2261 words


where to watch BBC When? 9.55pm-6am Who? The BBC will roll out all its political
big guns for an eight-hour marathon session. David Dimbleby, 71, anchors the
night's coverage for what will probably be the last time. He lines up alongside
Jeremy Paxman, Nick Robinson and Fiona Bruce, while Jeremy Vine operates a new,
improved Swingometer. Andrew Marr, John Simpson and Kirsty Wark will be on the
road with the three party leaders.

Tune in for Paxo's inevitable savaging of senior Labour figures set to lose
their seats, who could include Charles Clarke, Jacqui Smith, Phil Woolas and
even Ed Balls.

Change channel to avoid Andrew Neil's boat party outside the London Eye, which
the BBC says will provide a "relaxed and informal atmosphere" with "some of the
biggest names in politics".

ITV When? 9.55pm-6am Who? There will be no Dimbleby double-act this election, as
ITV has installed Alastair Stewart in the hot seat, in place of the junior
Dimbleby brother, Jonathan. Alongside Stewart will be Tom Bradby, ITV's
political editor, and the election analyst Professor Colin Rallings.

Julie Etchingham will operate a new "interactive holographic wall" including a
3-D House of Commons and a "special hung Parliament graphic". Tune in for "Flo"
- an incomprehensible graphic that is being billed as an "all-new version of the
swingometer designed to show a three-way flow of seats rather than the previous
linear two-party swingometer". It will be operated by Etchingham, who says: "By
6am I expect my arm muscles to be aching."

Change channel to avoid political sofa pundits John Reid and Ann Widdecombe.

Sky News When? 9pm-6am Who? The channel says that it will eschew the
"conventional studio-anchored programming" and will split hosting duties between
Kay Burley, Jeremy Thompson and Anna Botting, who will be on the tails of the
three leaders. The debate host Adam Boulton will lead the results operation from
Sky News Centre, while Eamonn Holmes and Dermot Murnaghan will become the main
faces when the counts are in later in the night.

Tune in for: the nation's first high-definition (HD) news channel. Sky News will
unveil the new HD format at 9pm to coincide with the start of Decision Time.
John Ryley, the channel's boss, promises a "clear, crisp and compelling new
television experience". Change channel to avoid: Sky News does not have the
resources to match the BBC, which will have a correspondent at every count.

Channel 4 When? 9pm - 1am Who? Channel 4 has gone for a Comic Relief-style
comedy gala, hosted by Lauren Laverne, David Mitchell and Jimmy Carr. Executives
promise a "provocative, cerebral and entertaining take on all things election"
that will include segments of special editions of shows such as Fonejacker and
an election special of Charlie Brooker's You Have Been Watching. When the
four-hour programme ends, 4 will try to tempt late-night channel flickers with
classic public service broadcasting including a repeat of the Sex Education
Show.

Tune in for: a bit of light relief from unremitting over-analysis on the other
channels. Change channel to avoid: a "special political themed edition" of the
cult dinner party documentary Come Dine with Me, featuring Edwina Currie, Brian
Paddick, Derek Hatton and Rod Liddle.

timesonline Interactive map Results, 141 search 126 104 138 124 109 132 and
analysis 131 129 121 110 81 136 100 80 76 117 107 82 133 95 147 111 8 137 85 88
79 115 114 89 149 116 142 98 91 143 106 92 120 140 87 135 146 123 96 84 118 78
125 108 73 130 113 Through the night live blogging the results Video and
photoblogs from the night Plus Daily Brief Sign up for our results e-mail
special timesonline.co.uk/ election10 whom to follow on twitter mrchrisaddison
Permanently bemused The Thick of It actor and comedian still reeling from the
way that life mimics art aiannucci Once he was the doyen of political satire.
Then he came out for the Lib Dems simonpegg Comedian, right, who is constantly
amused at how hard Nick Clegg is trying parsifal2 Tweets from Peter Bingle, Bell
Pottinger public affairs chairman - often reassuringly wrong sarahbrown10 What
the PM's wife doesn't say may be more painful than what she does edballs4mp
Don't expect much time for self-criticism from Ed Balls as he learns his fate
and that of his party henrymacrory Tory head of media giving the official line,
until he gets cross johnprescott If you annoy him he might say you're talking
blah blah blah stephentall Uncontrollable excitement from Stephen Tall, of Lib
Dem Voice mtucker10 Foul rantings from Alastair Campbell imitation, Malcolm
Tucker through the night how we stand now what happens and when Scenario 5 Lib
Dems to deal with Labour to put Nick Clegg in No 10 The Election Fink Tank
Daniel Finkelstein 6 The Conservatives should win a working majority, according
to the Fink Tank's experimental election model, which looks at the probability
of seat numbers based on our poll. The Tories with an 88.9 per cent chance of an
overall majority would get 337 seats. There is a 95 per cent chance that Labour
would be below 237 seats, and their expected number is 226. The Liberal
Democrats have a 25 per cent chance of getting more than 86 seats.

for the chop? Oliver Letwin Will the Tory policy chief end up skewered on his
own policy pyramid? John Denham The silent man of the Cabinet disappears into
oblivion Charles Clarke The Labour rebel facing insurrection in his own backyard
Ed Balls Too much time spent buttering up the rest of the Labour Party, Ed? John
Bercow Ashort but spectacular period as Speaker ends with him handing the
political baton to his wife Sally Nick Brown Gordon Brown''s chief thug faces
the abyss and is unable to fight back Hazel Blears A nation mourns hurdles 326
Seats any party must win to become the largest 24 Seats Labour can lose before
it no longer has an overall majority 72 Additional seats Tories must win to
become largest party 116 Additional seats that Tories must win to gain an
overall majority 25 The number of Liberal Democrat seats among their first 116
targets how to stay up, by the times nutritionist amanda ursell When the polls
close at 10pm have a 30g bar of dark chocolate. This will keep you feeling full,
thanks to its stearic acid , while its caffeine will help you to stay awake Save
your hit of coffee until 11pm or midnight, when when you start to need it.

Drink it with something filling but not too heavy, such as peanut butter on
toast, or nuts and fruit for freshness By 3am or 4am you shouldn't be drinking
coffee if you want to get any sleep at all. Start to wind down from the
excitement with a banana or some malt loaf, which is quite calming Exit poll by
BBC, ITV and Sky, with seat projection on the side of Big Ben The record for the
fastest count was set in 2005. Will it be repeated in Houghton &Sunderland
South? Sunderland Central (Tories need 12.8% swing) Early death watch. If Labour
loses here it's Armageddon Birmingham Edgbaston (Tories need 2% swing) Tories
need to oust Gisela Stuart comfortably to win Durham City (Lib Dems need 1%
swing) First indicator Lib Dems will be taking seats from Labour Tooting (Tories
need 6.1% swing) Home of the Times focus group, who started undecided, then went
Lib Dem, then Labour Rochdale (Lib Dems need 0.17% swing) Will the Gillian Duffy
row have cost Labour this seat? Blackburn (Tories need 9.7% swing) Tory longshot
could decapitate Jack Straw Redcar (Lib Dems need 15.6% swing) Lib Dems have
been sending Vince Cable in a huge long shot 194 Seats declared Norwich South
(Lib Dems need 6.7% swing) Will Labour big beast Charles Clarke lose to the Lib
Dems? Kirkcaldy &Cowdenbeath (SNP need 21.8% swing) The SNP is 16-1 to win
Gordon Brown''s seat Renfrewshire East (Tories need 7% swing) Jim Murphy,
Scottish Secretary, is the most likely Cabinet casualty Morley &Outwood (Tories
need 10.5% swing) Will Labour's future change forever by losing Ed Balls's seat?
Dorset West (Lib Dems need 2.3% swing) Will Oliver Letwin lose in a "Chris
Patten" moment? Streatham (Lib Dems need 8.8% swing) Will Gordon Brown''s
appearance here this week prove a vote winner or loser? Somerton &Frome (Tories
need 0.6% swing) The bellwether seat that shows whether Lib Dems can resist Tory
advance Brighton Pavilion (Greens need 6,479 votes) Will the Greens win their
first Parliamentary seat from Labour? By 6am you should be ready for a few
hours' sleep before heading into work. Of course all this good work is blown to
pieces if you're boozing through the night. But if your party is doing well, you
might just want to crack open the bubbly about now Harrow West (Tories need
9.13% swing) Will Tony Blair's appearance in Harrow have made any difference for
Labour? Richmond Park (Tories need 3.6% swing) Super-candidate smackdown: Zac
Goldsmith v Susan Kramer Barking (BNP need 12,296 votes) Will the BNP get its
top national target? Chorley (Tories need 8.21% swing) Tory win means they are
home and dry with overall majority Redditch (Tories need 2.6% swing) Bye-bye
Jacqui Smith, she will be gone but not forgotten Westminster North (Tories need
3.3% swing) Will "Friend Of Dave" Joanne Cash become the Tory MP? Wells (Lib
Dems need 2.9% swing) An excellent night for Clegg if Lib Dems takes this off
Tories 625 Seats declared Norwich North (Labour needs 10.6% swing) Will Labour
retake last year''s by-election loss from the Tories? Buckingham (UKIP needs to
overturn 28,781 votes) Will the Speaker, John Bercow, see of challenge by Nigel
Farage Morecambe &Lunesdale (Tories need 5.9% swing) The last seat likely to
change hands in the election Westmorland &Lonsdale (Lib Dem safe seat) The final
scheduled count, barring recounts. Seat number 650, Thirsk &Malton, delayed
until May 27 after death of a candidate 649 Seats declared keeping entertained
cocktails Brown's Battle 35ml Laphroaig 10 Yrs 25ml Carpano Antica Formula
Vermouth Clearly Cameron 25ml Bombay Sapphire Gin 20ml peach liqueur 25ml Blue
Curaçao Clegg's Climb 20ml Ketel One Vodka 15ml Grand Marnier 15ml peach liqueur
Top up with champagne Coalition Liberation 20ml Galliano 10ml elderflower
cordial 10ml sugar syrup 20ml Blue Curaçao 10ml peach schnapps 40ml Bols Geneva
Gin Pour the Galliano, cordial and sugar syrup into a mixing glass with ice.
Spoon into a Martini glass to form the lower layer. In a mixing glass stir the
curaçao, schnapps and gin with ice. Pour over a spoon, slowly, to form the top
layer. Garnish with star fruit Definitive Democracy 50ml orange juice 10ml sugar
syrup 10ml Mandarin Napoleon Liqueur Squeeze of lime juice 50ml tequila 25ml
cranberry juice 10ml cassis Mix orange juice, sugar syrup, mandarin liqueur and
lime juice together. Pour over crushed ice into a pilsner glass. Shake tequila,
cranberry juice and cassis together. Float on top to form upper layer. Garnish
with orange slice Thanks to The Ritz, London, for cocktail recipes pete paphides
playlist the moment The yawning gulf of political punditry that precedes the
first constituency result.

the song Bob Dylan &The Band Too Much of Nothing key lyric "When there's too
much of nothing/ No one has control."

the moment Slow-mo biographical video montage outlining David Cameron's rise
from Eton via Bullingdon Club infamy to, possibly, No 10.

the song The Jam Eton Rifles key lyric "All that rugby puts hairs on your chest/
What chance have you got against a tie and a crest?" the moment Slow-mo montage
of Gordon Brown's "worst bits", showing a television demeanour about as
comfortable as a Russian dancing circus bear.

the song The Beach Boys I Just Wasn't Made for These Times key lyric "They say I
got brains/ But they ain't doing me no good/ I wish they could."

the moment Nick Clegg and Mr Cameron consider forming a Cabinet together the
song Sparks This Town Ain't Big Enough for the Both of Us key lyric "As twenty
cannibals have hold of you/ They need their protein just like you do/ This town
ain't big enough for both of us."

the moment It's all over and, when it comes down to it, none of it mattered -
the economy means we're all doomed anyway the song R.E.M. It's The End of the
World as We Know It (and I Feel Fine) key lyric "A tournament, a tournament, a
tournament of lies/ Offer me solutions, offer me alternatives and I decline."

election sweepstake Everyone enters £5 and calls the winners in the seats below.
The person who gets the most results right at the end of the night wins the pot.

(Ladbrokes odds in brackets as a guide) Sunderland Central One of the first
seats to announce, should be solid Labour but boundary changes help the
Conservatives (Tory win 5-2) your bet qqq Basildon South &Thurrock East If the
Tories fail to win here, they're in for a disastrous night (Lab hold 6-1) your
bet qqq Dartford This seat has gone with the winner in every election since 1964
(Lab hold 7-1) your bet qqq Norwich South If the Tories topple Charles Clarke,
they are on course for a strong win (Tory win 7-2) your bet qqq Dorset West The
Liberal Democrats are gunning for Oliver Letwin (Lib Dem win 9-4) your bet qqq
Derby North If the Conservatives take this, they are on course for an overall
majority (Tory win 2-1) your bet qqq Luton South A bellwether seat since 1951
but can Esther Rantzen spring a surprise? (Ms Rantzen win 6-1) your bet qqq
Morley &Outwood Tories are hoping for their "Portillo moment" by removing Ed
Balls (Tory win 11-8) your bet qqq Brighton Pavilion Greens' best chance of
their first Commons seat (Green win 8-11) Liverpool your bet qqq Wavertree A key
Lib Dem target that Labour must hold (Lab hold 7-4) your bet qqq

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 6, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Marathon men finish off their gruelling campaign at a sprint

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 753 words


Eight campaign stops in 24 hours, a frenetic, sleepless cross-country blitz
taking in 740 miles of tarmac, several gallons of coffee and an enormous fish.
This was the culmination of David Cameron's election, the most strenuous
eleventh-hour campaign dash in British political history.

Starting outside Glasgow on Tuesday night and ending with a rally in Bristol
last night, Mr Cameron's overnight odyssey took in Carlisle, Wakefield,
Calverton, near Nottingham, and Dudley. He chatted to firemen and ambulance
drivers, children, metalworkers, fishermen and shelf stackers. With polls
showing the Tories scrambling to gain even a narrow majority, this was the
anti-complacency caravan. It was epic, it was strange, and it was spectacularly
knackering.

If there was any lingering doubt that the Tory leader would do whatever it takes
to become prime minister, this was dispelled at 5.47am yesterday in the gritty
dawn in Grimsby, when Mr Cameron consented to be photographed embracing an
eight-stone halibut. There was a palpable new urgency to the campaign. "We're
going at it all night, all day, all the way through to polling day," he told a
crowd of Scottish supporters as the marathon got under way in East Renfrewshire.

Mr Cameron's attacks on the Liberal Democrats took on a slangy, even fruity
tone: "Vote Liberal Democrat and you might get five years of Harriet Harman ...
if that's democracy, I'm a banana." The supporters cheered approvingly. Scottish
Tories belong to an older genetic stock than their English counterparts: here
was a genuine blue-rinse, and a man entirely upholstered in tweed, with
brick-red face. And then the campaign was off on a wild gallop down the country:
Mr Cameron, his entourage, the broadcasters, and a single agency reporter, in
the campaign buses, the rest of us by any means available. In the case of this
reporter a rental car: a small red Nissan, zippy enough, but with a tendency to
break down at critical moments. I called it Hazel Blears.

At a service station, Mr Cameron bought a novel by Patricia Cornwell. "This
should help to put me to sleep," he said. I have never seen anyone more tautly
wide awake.

He almost jogged into the fire station at Carlisle, where he spent an hour
kicking the wheels of fire engines and shooting the breeze with the
firefighters. "If they can work all night, so can I."

Soon after midnight the cavalcade clattered into Darwen, where Labour is
defending a 3,686 majority, to meet the metalworkers. When told that Tony Blair
had been in the constituency a day earlier, Mr Cameron remarked brightly:
"That's probably helpful."

In between stops, Mr Cameron rested in the back of the bus. I grabbed about 20
winks in the back of the car in a lay-by outside Scunthorpe.

A mottled dawn was breaking as the convoy thundered into Grimsby docks. The
stench of old fish was overpowering inside the packing hall but Mr Cameron
managed to look as if he spent every morning in a hard hat making fishy small
talk before breakfast. He held up a vast halibut for the cameras, and looked it
steadily in the eye as if confronting an undecided voter.

He admitted that the final hours before polling were "nerve-racking", yet he
appeared nerveless. There is something almost eerie about his poise, and his
ability to recall details when the press are bleary-eyed and tottering.

We met as he headed back to the bus.

"Morning, Ben. Thanks for your compliments about the campaign food." This is
slightly bizarre. It is six in the morning, the day before the most important
day of his political life. He has not slept, and in 48 hours he may be prime
minister, or a political has-been. I cannot remember what I wrote yesterday; but
he, astonishingly, can.

Composed as he seems, there is anxiety in the air. Just a few months ago, the
notion that the race might be this close would have been dismissed as absurd by
most Tories."If there's a hung Parliament, we will behave responsibly."

But he added: "I'm going all out to win this election."

This was the first time that a party leader has visited all four countries of
the UK in the 36 hours before polling.

So far from flagging, the Cameron express seemed to accelerate towards the
finishing line: a colourful mass rally in Bristol.

And then, after the noisiest, fastest, most colourful 24 hours of the campaign,
the machine screeched to a halt. The campaign fell silent, the exhaust fell off
Hazel Blears, and Mr Cameron, surely, finally fell asleep.

Online

Ann Treneman UKIP tries to unseat Speaker timesonline.co.uk/election10

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clockwise from top left: David Cameron at late-night garage; with a
halibut in Grimsby; Gordon Brown with Sheffield steelmen; laid back in Leeds;
defiant in Skelmersdale; Nick Clegg in Eastbourne; with wife Miriam on a plane;
Mr Cameron in Wales. Left: apolitical sign, Brighton. Centre: Mr Clegg in Durham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

THE EU MIGRANT LIE

BYLINE: BY JAMES SLACK

LENGTH: 544 words


LABOUR was rocked yesterday by explosive new claims about its ' disastrous'
policy on EU workers.

Figures showed almost four times more EU citizens working here than Britons
taking jobs on the continent.

Opposition parties said the figures destroyed the claim by Gordon Brown - who
promised 'British jobs for British workers' - that there had been equal numbers
travelling in each direction.

The Prime Minister made the claim only last week, during his encounter with
Rochdale pensioner Gillian Duffy.

But the EU's own statistics authority, Eurostat, says there were just 287,600 UK
nationals filling jobs elsewhere in the European Union in autumn 2008. Some
1,020,000 citizens from other Euro countries are taking posts in the economy
here - more than 500,000 from Poland and other Eastern European nations granted
'open door' access by the Government.

The revelations were put to immigration minister Phil Woolas during a live TV
debate.

Initially, he said he was surprised his opponents, the anti-EU UKIP party,
'trusted' figures from the EU's official statistical body.

He added: 'You can bandy around figures as long as you want', before insisting:
'There are around 2.2million British people who live and work in the European
Union.'

Critics pointed out Mr Woolas was not comparing like for like as he was counting
Britons who simply live abroad, and may have retired.

In any case, his argument flatly contradicted figures given by the Prime
Minister less than a

week ago. In his exchange with Mrs Duffy, Mr Brown had insisted: 'A million
people come from Europe but a million British people have gone into Europe. You
know, there's a lot of British people staying in Europe as well.'

Labour had the option of imposing transitional controls on Eastern European
migrants in 2004, but chose not to. More than a million arrived - compared to
the Government's own estimate of 13,000 a year. Around half are believed to have
since gone home.

Tory spokesman Damian Green said last night: 'This Government is determined to
mislead the British people about the effect of its immigration policy to the
end. It is clear that the failure to put transitional controls on when the EU
expanded was one of many disastrous decisions they have taken. Ministers are
simply in denial about why the British people are so angry about their failures
of immigration policy.'

UKIP spokesman Nigel Farage, who produced the Eurostat figures, said: 'These
figures destroy the argument that we have a mutually beneficial open door with
the EU'.

During heated exchanges, Mr Woolas repeatedly refused to say whether the two
million increase in the migrant population under Labour had been a deliberate
policy or an 'accident'. But he insisted: 'The benefits to our economy are clear
for all to see.'

The Lib Dems also endured a torrid time during the BBC Politics Show debate.
Spokesman Tom Brake confirmed the party planned an 'amnesty' for illegal
immigrants who have been here for ten years or more, even though his leader Nick
Clegg said last week that it should not be called 'amnesty'.

Mr Brake also risked ridicule by saying the hugely controversial regional
immigration policy, confining migrants to one area, would be piloted in
Scotland, raising the prospect of controls on the border with England.

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Labour accused of misleading voters over EU migration

BYLINE: Tom Whitehead

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 244 words


LABOUR faced fresh claims of misleading the public on immigration last night
after figures showed that there were almost four times more EU workers in the UK
than Britons working on the Continent.

Eurostat, the EU's information service, recorded that, as of autumn 2008, there
were 287,600 UK nationals working in other EU countries. At the same time, there
were 1,020,000 EU citizens working in Britain, according to the Office for
National Statistics.

The EU figure was presented to Phil Woolas, the Immigration Minister, by Nigel
Farage, of Ukip, during BBC's Daily Politics debate yesterday. Mr Farage said:
"These figures destroy the argument that we have a mutually beneficial open door
with the EU."

Mr Woolas questioned why Mr Farage would trust the Eurostat figure before saying
that there were more than two million Britons on the Continent when you looked
at those who "live and work" there.

Gordon Brown has claimed that a million Britons work in Europe.

Damian Green, the shadow immigration minister, said: "This Government is
determined to mislead the British people about the effects of their immigration
policy to the end. It's clear that the failure to put transitional controls on
when the EU expanded was one of many disastrous decisions they've taken."

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats said yesterday that they would test their
proposed regional-based immigration policy on Scotland first.

INSIDE Reports p4-9 What if no one wins? p19 Simon Heffer p20

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Common sense policies are surefire vote winners;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 107 words


THE only election candidate I have seen canvassing in my constituency is from
the Monster Raving Loony Party, which just about says it all, and the only
leaflet through the door has been from UKIP.

What's happening? Don't our opinions count or matter to the major parties? All
any party has to do to be swept into power is to halt overseas aid and
immigration, reform the welfare state, scrap quangos and the House of Lords, get
rid of half the number of MPs and take Britain out of the EU, focusing on trade
with member states instead of trying to look brilliant on the world stage.

Bigoted? No, just common sense.

David Neighbour, Huntingdon, Cambs

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron has earned the right to lead our nation 'In elections the character of
the party leaders is crucial'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1044 words


ALMOST every opinion poll published during the general election campaign has
indicated that the result will be a hung parliament. If that turns out to be the
case it will show that Labour's mission to change the nature of Britain through
a mixture of encouraging state dependency and facilitating uncontrolled
immigration has been at least partly successful.

For the truth is that David Cameron's Conservative Party deserves to win this
contest by a landslide. And in circumstances where the country has been all but
bankrupted by the overspending of a socialist regime, previous generations of
Britons would certainly have recognised as much.

Indeed, it is the historic role of Conservative governments to take the tough
decisions needed to get the country back on its feet after Labour ones have run
out of money. Margaret Thatcher did it 30 years ago and Mr Cameron is the only
leader equipped to perform the function now.

Despite Labour's social engineering, the Daily Express retains confidence in the
essential good sense of the British people. And for that reason we expect voters
to defy the predictions of the polls by awarding Mr Cameron an outright majority
tomorrow.

Over the past month the Tory leader has presented a policy agenda that is vastly
superior to anything offered by the other parties. He will make an early start
on tackling Labour's enormous public sector deficit, where the other parties
will continue to sanction sickening levels of government waste.

TO LISTEN to Gordon Brown over the weekend was to hear a man in denial. The
Prime Minister was still spreading scare stories about planned Tory cuts as if
he was in a position to continue to "invest". Has anyone reminded him that he is
borrowing £500million a day in the name of the British people?

If Brown is serious about avoiding cutbacks it can only be because he has a
secret plan for further massive tax increases. Such a response to the deficit
would be disastrous. What is needed, as shadow chancellor George Osborne has
recognised, is to foster a private sector recovery by keeping down taxes on
employment.

Both Cameron and Osborne have in this campaign demonstrated a heartening
appreciation that public money is hard-earned and belongs to the public. They
have been accused in the past of possessing an undue sense of entitlement due to
their rarefied backgrounds. But this election has revealed it is actually Brown
who harbours unwarranted feelings of entitlement to power and public funds.

His disgraceful behaviour towards Gillian Duffy further revealed him to be an
arrogant and obnoxious bully.

The best way to protect and improve public services in the stringent financial
environment that lies ahead is to open them up to consumer choice. This is just
what the Tories propose to do. Secondary education is the arena in which the
approach will be felt first, with new schools encouraged to open and compete for
pupils by offering what the vast majority of parents want: good discipline and
an emphasis on rigorous academic standards.

On immigration, the Conservatives will place a cap on the number of non-EU
workers and clamp down on abuses of the student visa system. They have promised
to reduce net immigration from hundreds of thousands a year to tens of
thousands.

Many voters would wish to go further but compared to Labour's continual
deceptions and the Lib Dem plan to grant an amnesty to illegal immigrants, the
Conservative position is a significant advance.

Conservative policy on Europe ("never" to the euro and a guaranteed referendum
on any future proposed loss of sovereignty to Brussels) is also far superior to
anything offered by the other mainstream parties. On these and other issues,
from pensions to the nHS, to reducing spending by quangos and getting tough on
crime, the Tories have adopted commendable positions.

But elections are about more than manifesto promises. The character of the party
leaders is just as important. And on this score Cameron is miles ahead. His path
towards power has not been straightforward yet he has proved time and again that
he is at his best in a crisis.

During the autumn of 2007 he showed his mettle with a barnstorming conference
speech that left Brown, who had been planning a snap election, frit and running
for cover. That was Cameron's Dunkirk moment. Tomorrow must be his D-Day.

During this campaign it was the phenomenon of  x22;Cleggmania" that threw many
Tory strategists into a panic. But Cameron showed he was made of sterner stuff.
After being wrongfooted by nick Clegg in the first televised leaders' debate, he
fought back in the second and floored the Lib Dem man in the third by expertly
dissecting his preposterous policies on immigration, the euro and housing.

FOLLOWING the parliamentary expenses scandal of last year, many readers may
still be considering a vote for one of the smaller parties. We hope that nobody
will back the poisonous BnP, whose attempt to create a hierarchy of British
subjects based upon racial background is fundamentally un-British. no such
disqualification applies to UKIP. Under Lord Pearson it has set out attractive
policies on everything from relations with the EU to education, taxation and law
and order. But UKIP cannot win this election and in many constituencies a vote
for it is likely to increase the risk of a pro-EU socialist being returned
rather than a sensible Conservative.

There are exceptions, such as in Buckingham, where this newspaper would love to
see nigel Farage unseat the Commons Speaker John Bercow - nominally still a Tory
but the sort of Tory who has climbed the greasy pole by agreeing with most items
of Labour policy. But in general, a UKIP vote tomorrow will risk keeping Brown
in Downing Street by depriving Conservatives of vital extra seats and that would
be a tragedy.

This newspaper's attitude towards politicians and their parties is largely
dictated by how they measure up to the time-honoured values of its readers: a
belief in fair play, hard work, strong law and order, patriotism and support for
the family.

According to all these values and more David Cameron has earned the right to
govern. We urge you to give him a mandate to get Britain going in the right
direction again.

'In elections the character of the party leaders is crucial'

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DESERVING: Mr Cameron will make a start on Labour's huge deficit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Revenue 'to lose millions' after shredding tax forms

BYLINE: Andy Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 284 words


MILLIONS of pounds in tax could be lost because the Inland Revenue has shredded
crucial records in cost-cutting measures, a whistle-blower revealed last night.

Tons of crucial paperwork has been destroyed after the taxman decided to close
130 offices throughout the country.

The whistle-blower, who has just accepted a six-figure redundancy payment under
a generous severance scheme, said a professional shredder company had been
called in to destroy the documents.

The cutbacks, which include 1,400 IT jobs going to India, could lead to massive
confusion in accurately collecting the correct amount of tax from workers and
employers, the former high ranking official in the North-west claimed. She told
the Daily Express the documents related to the past history of individual and
employer tax payments and could cost millions in uncollected tax.

Fraud

The case has been brought to light by UKIP parliamentary candidate Nick Hogan.
He has photographed shredding vans outside the doomed Revenue customer inquiry
centre in Chorley, Lancs. Mr Hogan, who is standing for UKIP there, said: "It
will severely hinder the Revenue's ability to check people have been paying the
correct amount of tax and could lead to massive tax fraud and evasion."

The former civil servant, who does not wish to be identified, said sometimes
there was no way of checking whether people had paid too much or too little tax.

A Revenue spokesman said last night: "We can confirm that a programme was put in
place to ensure that all papers within office locations due to close have been
'weeded' to ensure that we meet our obligations under information legislation
and only send to storage those papers that are within the retention period."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Consider this when you vote

BYLINE: Ann Widdecombe

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 704 words


Tomorrow the country decides who will get Britain out of the mess Labour got us
into. There really is very little choice because a vote for Liberal Democrat is
a vote for Labour or rather for a Lib-Lab pact and nobody who lived through the
last one can be persuaded that such an arrangement is capable of producing
anything other than a series of crises and a great deal of wheeling, dealing and
uncertainty.

Nick Clegg gave the game away when he said that the first requirement for his
support would be for the party with the largest number of seats to agree to
proportional representation. Note that carefully: for Clegg the big issue is not
getting the economy working but rather a system of electoral reform which will
benefit the Lib Dems. In other words party first, country second.

Confronted with an ebbing of the support he won after the first TV debate he
resorts to schoolboy abuse, talking about duck houses and moats. At least the
two mPs involved in those controversies resigned and, in any case, neither made
a direct claim for the items in question. By contrast Clegg himself claimed for
a kitchen and even cake tins. It is not only the hypocrisy which is breathtaking
but the utter pettiness. what about the nation's finances, police, health
service and immigration? You would think they might have come first.

David Cameron advances plans for government if the Conservatives win and Clegg
calls him arrogant. So we must presume the Lib Dems have no plans? That they
haven't a clue what they would do? Cameron has demonstrated one massively
important qualification for office - he knows how to keep his nerve. Throughout
a period in which Conservative fortunes appeared to falter he just carried on,
resolute and committed to the policies he set out. By contrast his opponents
have turned every which way as the going got tough.

meanwhile it is not hard to see where an incoming Conservative government can
make its first cuts. Under the allegedly prudent but in reality profligate
Gordon Brown first-class rail travel for the Insolvency Service trebled as
Britain went bust. Government marketing and advertising reached £2.5billion a
year, the department for Culture, media and Sport increased its spending on
consultants by 52 per cent, advertising just 10 vacancies clocked up a bill for
£120,000 and its press releases cost a staggering £5,394 each! Look at the
Department for Children, Schools and Families which spent £3million refurbishing
its offices, adding a massage room and "contemplation suite".

Britain is over-governed down to its very rubbish bins on which the State spies
with microchips. It is ruled by unelected quangos, over-zealous civil servants
and a slavish, unthinking adherence to the rulebook. our opinions, or at any
rate our right to express them, can no longer include the controversial or the
oddball but must adhere to state orthodoxy. Never has so much information been
held on each citizen.

If Labour is elected tomorrow either in their own right or courtesy of Lib Dem
support, the trend of pettifogging regulation, reckless spending and state
expansion will continue apace.

VoTe UKIP and you keep in power the most proeuropean Government we have ever
seen, vote BNP and, quite apart from its essential nastiness, you will keep in
power the Government which has made the biggest hash of immigration control
since the end of the Second world war, vote for any small party and you lose the
opportunity to effect real change. Vote Lib Dem and you guarantee to prop up a
discredited, divided Government which understands no language beyond tax high
and spend high.

That always was Labour's philosophy.

Brown fails as surely as the Foots and Benns of this world to understand that
only by freeing up business can it bring in the money we need to run public
services. Heavy taxes and regulation stifle enterprise and deter investment.

Cameron alone offers a smaller state, large-scale repeal of burdensome
regulation and a cut in the number of mPs, bureaucrats and box tickers. It is a
prescription we desperately need and Britain should swallow that medicine in the
sure knowledge that it will, after the first difficult taste, make us and future
generations healthy, prosperous and free.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

Diary: Stephen Bates

BYLINE: Stephen Bates

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 691 words


?Goodness, Edmonton should be so lucky to get Andrew Charalambous as its Tory MP
- that's if he can spare the time. For Mr C (it's shorter that way) is not only
an environmental activist, occasional Conservative columnist for the Voice
newspaper, "one of the UK's most successful ethical housing entrepreneurs", and
originator of the Age Respect Foundation, but also blogger Dr Earth, chair and
laureate professor of Universitas Sancti Cyrillus of Malta and the university's
dean of the faculty of environmental sciences, and a knight grand officer and
count of the Ordo Byzantinus Sancti Sepulchri. Oh, and a special constable in
the City of London, a member of the Honourable Artillery Company, doctor of
business administration from the University of Northern Virginia, and lord of
the manor of Sutton in Suffolk. Are there enough hours in the day? Opponents
meanly suspect a certain degree of achievement inflation, and it is true that
some of the more exotic have been excised from the CV on his election address.
But he's still left enough space to assure voters: "Whether it is qualifying as
a barrister or spending time in the rainforest with indigenous tribes, the key
is to integrate your skills and empathise with people from all walks of life."

?Philanthropist of the week: and once again it is a Tory, George Hollingbery by
name and currently standing as the party's candidate in the Hampshire seat of
Meon Valley, who has admitted in his local newspaper to paying the £500 deposit
for a rival candidate in the 2005 general election when he stood in Winchester.
The lucky recipient was King Arthur Pendragon, who polled 581, far short of the
7,473 extra votes the Tories needed to topple the Lib Dem Mark Oaten.
Hollingbery told the Hampshire Chronicle: "He was fantastic fun who added a lot
to the election. It seemed a shame he should suffer financially. I didn't pay
him in advance - I'm not that stupid." In Meon Valley this time there's an
animal protection candidate, an Independent, English Democrats and Ukip, so it
could get quite expensive.

?Deep in the South Wales Valleys, here's Peter Hain, the Welsh secretary,
sporting an unseasonal tan and accompanying Blaenau Gwent's Labour candidate
Nick Smith, hoping to wrest the constituency back from Dai Davies, formerly
Labour, now People's Voice, who has held the seat since an unfortunate spat over
candidacies at the 2006 byelection. The Labour team includes two young politics
students wearing T-shirts bearing the name of Tredegar's most famous son with
the slogan I &#10084; Nye. A red rag to old Labourites supporting Davies,
naturally, and they bear down on the students as though they were on University
Challenge. So who was Nye? Where was he born? What were his political
achievements? You can probably guess the rest: nul points. Oh dear. Folk
memories matter in South Wales.

?Having it both ways award: "Labour Saves the Whittington!" proclaims a party
leaflet in Haringey, north London, lauding a successful campaign to save the
local hospital's A&E department. No space to mention, alas, that it was the
government that wanted to close it in the first place.

?Living up to his nation's blunt-speaking reputation, an Australian magistrate
has just decided that calling a police officer a prick is not offensive. Robbie
Williams (surely not that one?) has ruled that the word would not offend a
reasonable person. It's a bit of a trend. Five years ago costs were awarded to a
man who had been arrested for shouting: "Youse are fucked," at a busload of
officers; and Dubbo magistrate David Heilpern says the F-word has lost its
punch: "I too have experience of witnesses responding to propositions saying:
'Fuck off - it didn't happen like that'." Police association secretary Peter
Remfrey told the Sydney Morning Herald: "We think it falls squarely into the
category of offensive language."

?Ah, BNP: the party that keeps on giving - at least to diarists. Here's Richard
Barnbrook in the party's newspaper: "The BNP is considering sending a
fact-finding mission to Afghanistan to obtain a first-hand account of the
situation." Any chance of a kidnap?

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

Reverse this EU information ban

BYLINE: David Henckeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 611 words

ABSTRACT

David Hencke: Civil servants are keeping statistics about European farm
subsidies out of the public domain until after the election

FULL TEXT

Over the bank holiday weekend senior civil servants running the country took an
extraordinary decision to ban the public from seeing information because they
thought it was so controversial that it would disrupt election campaigning.

They decided to protect candidates from being asked questions on the issue and
thought it best the public be left in ignorance about the facts.

What was this issue? Not some horrendous economic figure, some real facts on
immigration. No, it was decision not to reveal which farmers and agribusinesses
scooped up some £3bn from the taxpayer from EU farm subsidies last year.

On Friday statistics were published simultaneously in the other 26 EU countries
revealing who had been paid what - it is part of a victory by European
journalists to force countries under freedom of information acts to release all
this previously secret information.

But in London - against an EU directive - the information was banned. The
website says: "Due to the general election campaign, this website will not be
updated with the 2009 figures until after the election."

A letter from a Defra official to Jack Thurston, head of , which campaigns for
transparency for EU payments, says why: "This decision reflects the need to
maintain, and be seen to maintain, the impartiality of the UK civil service,
given the potential risk that CAP payment information relating to any
individuals involved in the election might be used as part of election
campaigning."

Yet ministries continue to publish information on hospital admissions and roads,
just to name two. And in Scotland because of devolved government - they have
taken the opposite decision. They published their figures over the weekend -
revealing that 19,000 farmers and agribusinesses shared nearly £600m of public
money and the world has not fallen apart north of the border.

So who does this protect? Initial research by farmsubsidy.org reveals that
possibly up to 70 of the 650 Tory candidates standing at the election could be
receiving some sort of subsidy. Up to half a dozen Ukip candidates - who
campaign against the EU - could be receiving EU cash as well as a smattering of
Liberal Democrat candidates. On the Tory side they have discovered that the
declared postcode for receipt of EU subsidies is often the same one as used by a
local Conservative Association, suggesting that leading officials of the local
parties are also receiving subsidies. These are all taken from the previous
year's subsidy figures.

Yet we won't know, thanks to Whitehall, until after the election - even though
the EU has made it clear in  today that it is disappointed with Britain and
intends to write to the new government pointing out it is not in line with the
EU directive.

Frankly, disappointment is too weak a word. It is scandal that unelected
officials should decide what information should be made public and when. The
decision is also partisan in that it appears to protect opposition party
candidates more than Labour candidates from scrutiny - particularly in the case
of the Conservatives.

Sir Gus O'Donnell, the cabinet secretary, should reverse this now. Otherwise it
bodes very badly if we are in hung parliament territory when Whitehall will be
effectively running the country while politicians sort out a new government. If
officials are going to select what information the public should know and what
should be kept secret, they are exceeding their brief.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

Hoodless and Hoodless - odd coincidence of name shared by reporter and BNP man

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 240 words


How about this for a bizarre coincidence? The reporter who wrote the infamous,
uncritical piece about a British National Party meeting in the Brentwood Gazette
(see  and  and ) shares a surname with a BNP member.

But Natalie Hoodless says there are no familial links whatsoever between her and
John Hoodless, the man originally chosen by the BNP as a general election
candidate in Darlington.

Hoodless, though selected as the BNP's prospective parliamentary candidate, was
replaced after . A local man, he stood for UKIP in the 2005 election but, ,
later "saw the light" by joining the BNP.

Hoodless is not a common name, but when I phoned to ask Natalie Hoodless if she
was related to John Hoodless, she said: "I'm related to A John Hoodless".

Is he the BNP candidate in Darlington. "No, he's a carpenter". But are they one
and the same? "No. I didn't know there was a John Hoodless there [in
Darlington]."

Fair enough. But it also emerges that Ms Hoodless has a track record of writing
sympathetically about both the BNP and UKIP. (BNP examples  and ; UKIP example
).

Then again, the stories would have gone through the normal subbing process so we
must presume that the Gazette was happy enough about their laudatory tone.

NB: The offending article about the BNP by Ms Hoodless was taken down from the
Gazette's website after my calls to the paper last week.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

The Northerner: Shock as the north suddenly matters

BYLINE: Martin Wainwrightguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1053 words

ABSTRACT

Welcome to the Northerner, our weekly round-up of the best of the northern press


FULL TEXT

Goodness, you can hardly draw breath up here without another caravan of
politicians and London journalists rushing past. It's like being an old granny
who sees neither hair nor hide of the family for months on end, and suddenly
here they are, every man jack, wrapped in smiles and offers of outings.

"Must have got wind of my savings" is what hard-headed northern grannies think.
Substitute "votes" for "savings" and that's what accounts for our sudden day in
the national sun. Don't get me wrong; I'm not heaving a regional chip on to my
shoulder. But stay this time. Especially fellow-journalists. Slip the surly
bonds of London N1 and settle down in England's better half.

Aah, that feels better. Now what's going off - one of those interesting usages,
that, off instead of on, which define northern speech, as does that placing of
"that".

I've been Google-mapping for somewhere the Northerner seldom visits and found
Sedbergh. Yawn? No, it's the start of that wonderful phenomenon specific to this
mini-region: Caravan Jam Time.

Appleby-in-Westmorland's famous Horse Fair falls at the beginning of June but
already, like the Jews going to be taxed in the Bible, the Travellers of Britain
are starting to move. Soon the A65 will be picturesque with horses tethered on
the verge and traditional caravans jolting along. Patience, everyone. It does us
all good to slow down.

The Westmorland Gazette's Sedbergh pages report that  and local councillors are
on the alert for too much colourful delay. Catch their tone from John Challoner
of Cautley Neighbourhood Group who tells the Gazette's Kay Proctor: "The
migration of Gypsies last year lasted six weeks. In a one-mile stretch of road
we had 80 caravans, which isn't pleasant for anybody." Oh, I don't know - and
neither I think does Google. Their related-ads box by the story features: "Gypsy
caravans - thinking of buying? Compare 100s of retailers' prices ..." Actually
you click through to mostly paintings and tiny caravans made of matchsticks, but
that could change.

Turn volume down before browsing

Where else do we rarely call? Withernsea hasn't featured for a while, which is a
shame because its  is a one-off. My wife Penny's just rushed in to check I'm OK
because the laptop suddenly started blasting out Cliff Richard's Summer Holiday,
which plays all the time, in a very loud plinky-plonky setting, all the time
you're logged in at the site.

Where's the volume key? But the Times is a real heartwarmer. The picture of the
Ladies in Pink at their dominoes evening with the chairman of the Royal British
Legion (not unlike myself but with far less hair) has set me up for the day. And
with an eye on the serious side of life, and the north's economy, it's good to
know that the town has a new butcher's shop and that Southcliff Fisheries has
reopened (although, rather sweetly, this is illustrated with a picture of it
shut, complete with a notice in the door saying Closed).

The text is in vast 48-point capitals and a bit terse, but somehow riveting.
Here's an extract: "I have been galavanting - now there's a good word. Off to
Hornsea on the 9am bus 129, catching the 10am 130 to Brid. Sometimes you can
connect to 121 Brid-Scarborough. All in a day's travel. Best of all its free.
Await my reports of my travels..."

Then, without a paragraph breather, we're off on the 6.05am bus to Hull and a
snack in Tesco ("Not a lot of buses you could use your Early Bird pass on")
before catching the 8.15 to Scarborough, "flitting through pleasant
countryside..."

Surprised by Joy - that's what CS Lewis called his autobiography, and it nicely
sums up the Withernsea Times too.

'Welcome to Blink-and-you'll-miss-it'

I did mention Hebden Bridge in the Northerner the other day, but since I called
by, the famous Hampstead of the North has put up an excellent road sign. Instead
of the usual "Normalville thanks you for driving carefully" it riffs playfully
on the Pennine town's legendary Sixties reputation.

You can see the sign at the left. I'm told that if you scratch and sniff it an
aroma familiar from student days and rock festivals will seep forth. Mind you it
doesn't beat Ripon's wonderful "Rest awhile amid its ancient charms", which is
what I say to Penny when I'm feeling frisky.

Candidate's death creates election-free zone

Kirkbymoorside is a notable place, for all its relative isolation at the foot of
the North York Moors. Did you know that it has an aircraft factory? I haven't
been to Slingsby Aviation for a while and I gather it produces mostly components
these days; but if you want to see an example of northern manufacturing in
action (and don't let anyone kid you that manufacturing is dead up here), then
check out the two Slingsby SAH2200 hovercraft in the James Bond movie Die
Another Day.

Thinking about Kirkbymoorside has brought me to the  which has got a unique
election situation: there is no election to report. The sad death of UKIP
candidate John Boakes from a suspected heart attack means that voters will have
to wait for three weeks, something that happened in 2005 in Staffordshire South
after the Lib Dem candidate died during that campaign.

Unfortunately I need to go to Malton to buy a paper copy of the Mercury to sense
the level of debate: the online version's Viewpoint is still stuck with
controversy about last year's Christmas lights switch-on and a letter from the
Liberal Democrat candidate published in July. I'll try to do this before 27 May,
when Thirsk and Malton electors finally vote, and bring you news.

Martin Wainwright recommends: bluebell time

Walk in a wood near you. I've heard the show at Gilsland near the Spa Hotel and
above the river Irthing is really good, complete with remains of recuperative
pool for injured servicemen, whose pumping mechanism from the river never
properly worked. Take a city break to Liverpool, too. I was there this week,
enjoying the excellent new architecture and laid-back atmosphere round the
cathedrals in the sunshine. The  says: "Spring is finally here and Liverpool is
bursting into life." I can vouch that this is true.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

Election 2010: Turning gaffes into gags

BYLINE: James Kettle (contributor)guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 685 words

ABSTRACT

James Kettle: Reckon the election campaign's been tough on the politicians?
Think of us, the poor satirists - we've been in overdrive on The Vote Now Show

FULL TEXT

They look knackered, the party leaders, don't they? Red-eyed, rheumy,
pale-faced. Hardly surprising, when you think what we've put them through during
this election campaign. There's barely been a moment in the past few weeks when
they haven't been being made to truck off to some part of the UK to give a
speech or press the flesh, while at the same time prepping for 270 minutes of
career-defining TV. Looked at that way, it seems hardly surprising that Gordon
Brown gave us the Bigotgate gaffe. It's amazing that none of the politicians
have cracked completely - wrestling Adam Boulton to the ground or walking away
from a meet-and-greet to sit quietly on a traffic island, crying.

I'm feeling the pace of the campaign myself. For the past four weeks, I've been
writing pretty much daily for Radio 4's The News Quiz and The Vote Now Show,
which finishes tonight. With 16 shows in the space of four weeks (many of which
have been prepared simultaneously) it's easy to start going a little bit
peculiar. The other day I started rocking gently, singing the anti-managerial
terrace chant "You don't know what you're doing!" to myself. Although I changed
the words to "You're not being very funny." That's what 19 days of faintly
interchangeable Peter Mandelson stories - can anything beat the one where he
started dancing with a pensioner? - can do to a man.

With three Vote Now Shows to prepare every week, the routine has been pretty
regimented. We start at midday the day before transmission, working out who's
going to be on the show in terms of guest standups and interviewees - this
series we've had turns from John Shuttleworth, Mark Watson and Peep Show's Isy
Suttie as well as appearances from Robert Peston and Kate Adie, whose stories of
a socially gauche Roy Jenkins on meet and greets were one of my personal
highlights. We then spend the afternoon putting together material and devising
silly games for the guests to play as part of the show - they've included
Political Fortunes, a variant on Family Fortunes where we polled our audience on
a range of topical questions and got our guests to guess the answers.

On the day of the show we meet up with Steve Punt and Hugh Dennis to go through
the morning papers - to judge by things so far, the Sun will be pouring a bucket
of effluent over Brown, the Telegraph will be running a big picture of one of
the leaders' wives, the Mirror will feature a man dressed as a chicken - before
firming up what's going to be in that night's show. Tonight is the Vote Now
show's last outing. Normally, before we're even through writing the evening
script, the whole thing will start up again for the following day. It's
relentless: thank God there are so many different ways to take the piss out of
George Osborne. Or Gordon. Or the Methuselah-like figure of Ming Campbell.

Balance is important, you see. Back in the day, the BBC was so terrified of
making jokes during the election that satire used to be banned from the airwaves
during the campaigning period - the 1964 election brought the demise of That Was
The Week That Was for this very reason. Nowadays, shows are allowed to be funny
(sometimes we manage it) but within strict limits. We've had to make sure all
three parties have the piss extracted equally - it's no use saying that one
party is more inherently amusing than another, and so should dominate the show.
And in any case, I'm not sure the world is ready for UKIP's Half Hour.

Sadly, the election itself won't even give me any respite - I'll still be here
on Friday morning, working on The News Quiz script as the shape of Westminster
settles (or obstinately refuses to - we shall see). In the meantime, I'll carry
on monitoring events via . I like looking into his inexorable, blue blue eyes,
eyes that have clearly seen too much. It's almost as if he understands.

· The Vote Now Show: Radio 4, 11pm tonight -

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

General election 2010: Kent marginal sees battle to get voters to the polls

BYLINE: Stephen Batesguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1024 words

ABSTRACT

Sittingbourne and Sheppey has Labour majority of just 79, with all parties
looking to seduce non-voters to their cause

FULL TEXT

Venturing along the north Kent coast, isolated amid the marshlands just 40 miles
from London, squeezed between the M2 and the Thames estuary, is a bit like
entering a timewarp. The Vikings plundered here, the lonely  where  set the
opening of Great Expectations still stands a little way up the coast, the faded
resorts seem stuck in the 1960s. And all along the river bank, some of the
closest constituency fights in the country are taking place: all between Labour
and the Tories, with Lib Dems a very distant third.

Labour clung on here in 2005 by the slenderest of margins: Medway 213,
Gillingham 254, Thanet South 664, Dartford 706. Gravesham stayed Conservative by
just 654. And the closest of all was the , enclosing an island with a container
port, a steel mill and a paper manufacturer alongside a dowdy seaside resort
littered with caravan parks and, inland, a commuter town and rural villages. In
this slice of England, the Labour majority last time was just 79, making it the
third most marginal seat in the country.

"That 79 is etched on my memory," said , the Tory candidate this time as last.
"I am saying to people on the doorstep: 'Do you want to get rid of Gordon
Brown?' And when they say yes, I say, 'Did you vote for me last time?' And when
they say they didn't bother, I tell them 'I'm looking for 40 people just like
you.'"

Henderson, 62, is something of a rarity among candidates these days too: a
self-made businessman, brought up on a council estate, who's lived on the Isle
of Sheppey for 30 years ("Yes - I'm a Swampie") and been a local councillor.

"I won't need a second home. I'll travel up every day by train. This is the seat
I've always wanted to fight. I love it here.

"I want to be an independent-minded Conservative MP. Don't get me wrong: I'm
100% behind David Cameron. I just think we live in a democracy and we should
have the best people in parliament, people of integrity and principle like
(Labour's) Frank Field. People with experience of business, who've had their
hands dirty. I'm working class: the whips will have nothing on me. I've no
ambition to climb the greasy pole."

Even more unusual, he was reluctant to pose in front of the union flags and
portrait of Winston Churchill hanging above the stage in the local Conservative
hall, where his election headquarters is based. "Don't take my picture there -
it will make me look like a candidate for the BNP and I don't want people to
think I am more rightwing than I am - and I am pretty rightwing."

Eventually he agreed. Henderson is indeed sufficiently rightwing to have signed
up to the Better Off Out of Europe group, though that hasn't stopped a UKIP
candidate defying his party leadership's wishes by standing in the constituency.

Henderson's main opponent is , whose local roots are even deeper than his. Born
on Sheppey, she leads the opposition Labour group on the local borough council
and, until last May, was a county councillor too. She's bidding to replace , the
former Labour MP, though the Labour national executive did her chances little
good last year by dickering for six months over whether an all-woman shortlist
should be imposed on the constituency party, when they were likely to choose a
woman anyway.

Both she and Henderson are old sparring partners, but mutually respectful. He
said: "We get on well. She's very pleasant. I've got a lot of sympathy for
Angela, but there's nothing she can do or say to change things - a bit like us
in 97."

"Did he say that?" countered Harrison. "Personally, he's alright. Our
differences are political. I wouldn't say anything nasty about him and I hope he
wouldn't say anything nasty about me."

Out canvassing in Queenborough with a small team of supporters, she couldn't
help still being the local councillor. Confronted by mother-of- three, out of
work Donna Moses, she found herself laboriously explaining civic planning
decisions.

"There's nothing round here. Why can't the council do us a cinema?" demanded
Moses.

"Well, did you go when there was one? It was a private business and it closed."

"Yeah, well, if it was done up nice ..."

"And then you'd moan when we put up your council tax."

"Yeah, but I don't pay council tax. And anyway, what about these lights? They've
never worked round here ... And what about these druggies and that? If they want
to die, that's up to them. My mother-in-law, she's just died of cancer and she
really wanted to live...."

Harrison resorts to telling her to bombard the council with her complaints until
they take notice.

Voter confusion is just an occupational hazard. Roger Truelove, her agent (who
himself stood as a Lib Dem in the constituency in 1997 before seeing the light)
said: "I just said to this chap: 'Are you interested in the economy, or jobs?'
and he said, 'No, fags, mate.'" Down the working men's club the smoking ban
remains unpopular.

Harrison said: "I don't get the sense that everyone's switching to support the
Conservatives," adding frankly: "I don't know whether I'll hold the seat. It
depends on turnout.

"I've only had a few people saying they're not sure about Gordon Brown. I tell
them I've seen him in a nursery, down on his knees, talking to kids and he's
lovely with them. He's not got the charisma of Tony Blair but we have serious
problems in this country and we need a serious person to lead us out of them."

The  admits he is unlikely to challenge in the main fight, though he will see
off UKIP, the BNP (whose man is not local and no one has seen) and the Monster
Raving Loonies' perennial candidate .

"We are finding a lot coming over to us," Nevols said wistfully, adding: "If I
was putting money on it, the Conservatives are going to take it. They look dead
certs."

Deep in their hearts, some on the Labour side probably agree, but that doesn't
stop one haring back down a street of Victorian terraced houses: "I missed one
... it could just be that crucial vote ..."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

General election 2010: How did technology do in the manifestos?

BYLINE: Jemima Kissguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 939 words

ABSTRACT

Was technology important enough to make it into the main manifestos? And did
anyone dare mention the Digital Economy Act? By Jemima Kiss

FULL TEXT

It's not too late to decide who to vote for tomorrow. Here's the pick of
technology policies - those we could find - plucked from the main manifestos.

How did the parties do in setting out their promises to the digital
constituency? And what was important enough to make it to the final election
manifesto? http://www.flickr.com/photos/andrewjbrown/4562446609/ Photo by  on
Flickr.


Gave scant mention to technology in its manifesto. Under the creative industries
section, the manifesto gives just one paragraph to "the digital revolution".

· Every home and business will have high-speed broadband within ten years
through a public-private partnership that includes £1bn of government
investment. Everyone will have a connection speed of at least 2 Mbps, with those
last, hard-to-reach areas supplied by satellite.· Intellectual property
framework will be updated and further action will be taken on online piracy.·
Under education, Labour will prioritise study in science, technology, maths and
engineering for some courses and encourage innovation by investing in Technology
and Innovation Centres that will commercialise successful academic projects.

Manifesto mentions: Technology 6, Broadband 17, Digital 15


In the main manifesto, Glasgow is picked out as a centre for startups and gaming
companies, while Brighton gets a mention for its large digital media community.

· Encourage a focus on science, technology, engineering and maths in schools.·
Will use part of the BBC's digital switchover budget to fund broadband
infrastructure development.

However, the Tories gave the most space to technology overall with a dedicated
manifesto. It was introduced by shadow culture secretary  - who told us in the
last week that he would want the job of technology minister in the new
government.

The technology manifesto states that Britain should produce "the next generation
of Googles, Microsofts and Facebooks":

· Create a 'right to government data', mimicking President Obama's 'right to
data' policy, including publishing spending data and salaries for public
bodies.· Extend super-fast 100 Mbps broadband to "most" of the population.·
Break up large government IT contracts so that SMEs can pitch.· Create a
government 'skunkworks' team to develop in-house tools and advise on government
projects.· Introduce technologies to help involve the public in the
Parliamentary process.· Require credit card companies to provide data to help
people understand pricing and usage.

Manifesto mentions: Technology 16, Broadband 3, Digital 1, Twitter 1, Facebook
1, YouTube 1


Little mention of technology in the main manifesto.

· Super-fast broadband rollout would be paid for by the government, prioritising
areas under-served by the commercial market.· Won't commit to spending on
technology R&D in this climate, but "recognise the importance of science
investment to the recovery".

Manifesto mentions: Technology 2, Broadband 1, Digital 0


Plenty on green technologies, as you'd expect, but also:

· Make BT responsible for providing high-speed broadband to every household.·
Public services would have priority for any 'spare' spectrum or bandwidth
leftover by infrastructure upgrades. · The BBC would be the primary public
service broadcaster and cross-media ownership rules would be tightened.·
Government data would be widely available, including public affairs, the
environment and health, with the exception of data that impacts the privacy of
individuals, and support open source software and open data, especially to
create new markets for startups.· The Greens would repeal the "flawed and
illiberal" Digital Economy Act.

Manifesto mentions: Technology 2, Broadband 1, Digital 1, peer to peer 1


Several mentions of Scotland's green energy technology, but not so much as a
sniff of broadband.

Manifesto mentions: Technology 1, Broadband 0, Digital 0


· Rolling out broadband to the many parts of Wales without full coverage will be
a priority, followed by the introduction of high-speed access for homes and
businesses.· Campaign for compulsory network sharing by mobile operators to
resolve Wales's patchy coverage.· Campaign to protect Welsh-language media and
invest in more S4C digital services.· Oppose legislation to allow government
internet monitoring.

Manifesto mentions: Technology 1, Broadband 7, Digital 2
http://www.flickr.com/photos/andrewjbrown/4563661714/in/photostream/ Photo by
on Flickr.


Absolutely nada. The closest I could find are pledges to prevent public money
being used to support projects that insult Britain, cutting the BBC back to a
core public service outfit and removing the "unhelpful verse starting with
'rebellious Scots to crush'" from God Save the Queen.

Manifesto mentions: Technology 0, Broadband 0, Digital 0


· Specific investments in technology universities to encourage domestic talent
and protect industries.· Telecoms infrastructure would be nationalised under a
universal service obligation to provide a 100 Mbps not-for-profit service.·
Introduce legislation to criminalise journalists and media organisations that
"knowingly publish falsehoods", and create a new media complaints body to
enforce it.

Manifesto mentions: Technology 15, Broadband 3, Digital 4

Disclaimer: I've pledged support for the  in my constituency of Brighton
Pavilion.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday

Election 2010: If science had a vote, which party would it vote for?

BYLINE: Martin Robbinsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1108 words

ABSTRACT

After two weeks reading manifestos and reviewing the parties' responses to our
questions about science policy, Martin Robbins has reached his verdict

FULL TEXT

It's easy to get cynical about elections. We used to vote for the people we
disliked the least. Then along came the Liberal Democrats and we realised it
might be possible to make everybody lose. Added to that, any rational discussion
of policy is pushed aside by a media machine more interested in what shoes the
leaders' wives are wearing than in serious analysis of the parties' plans.
Science policy has hardly been mentioned in the news.

So it's probably just as well that since the start of last week the Guardian has
been looking in detail at the science policies of the main parties. What have we
learned?

Our survey reveals the root cause of the media's lack of interest in science at
this election. One striking feature of the parties' answers to our questions was
the extent to which they all agree. A broad consensus exists on climate change,
the need to develop renewable sources of energy, support for GM and stem cell
research, animal testing, dealing with pandemics, libel reform and science
funding.

Equally, all the parties seem to view science as inextricably linked with
business, something that many scientists will be - and should be - wary of.

These aren't party political issues, so it's not really surprising that they
don't feature much in an election campaign.

Whether this consensus is a good thing or not varies from issue to issue. In the
case of libel, the consensus is a demonstration of the astonishing success of
the  in recent months. On climate change, it indicates that a vigorous attempt
by internet cranks to subvert science has met something of a brick wall, unless
the next government turns out to be a coalition of Ukip and the BNP.

On the other hand it's hard to be optimistic when it comes to science funding -
none of the parties seems particularly committed to it, and if the science
budget isn't cut I'll happily dance around Guardian HQ naked. The only question
is how much it will be cut by - the suspicion from  is that the Tories might
wield the larger axe, but it's just a guess.

When it comes to the differences between the parties, all of them are committed
to some extent to basing policy on evidence. The sticking point is where this
clashes with moral ideology. Nowhere is this clash of political cultures starker
than in the debate over drug policy, with both Labour and the Conservative party
happy to abandon the pretence of a rational, evidence-based debate in favour of
reactionary policies that pander to public opinion.

This wouldn't be a problem if we were able to have a proper public debate on
drugs, but the right-wing press has made any sensible discussion of drug policy
impossible. Not only do we have to endure hysterical shrieking over every drug
scare that comes along, but academics have been subjected to what amount to
vicious campaigns of intimidation. Witness the newspaper attacks last year that
were directed not just at Professor David Nutt himself, but also at his family.

It's harder to understand the reasoning behind the Liberal Democrats' opposition
to nuclear power, which seems to be based on more than simply the economic
costs, or why the Labour party is so in thrall to the alternative medicine
community.

And what of the respective potential science ministers? Dr Evan Harris commands
the respect of the scientific community for the knowledge and passion he brings
to the job. Similarly Lord Drayson managed to retain the respect of scientists
even as they became increasingly disgruntled with his party. Like Harris he is
heavily engaged with scientists and could regularly be found at meetings and
events around London, or responding to Tweets on Twitter. His curious
disappearance during this campaign has prompted some speculation about what his
future might hold. The Conservative shadow science minister, Adam Afriyie, on
the other hand, is an unknown and rarely seen figure who has yet to demonstrate
any real passion for scientific issues - which inevitably harms his party's
credibility on science.

So if science could cast a vote, where would it put its cross?

I've concentrated here on the three main parties because as well as having no
chance of forming a government, the smaller parties generally lack credibility
on science. Plaid Cymru and the SNP are well-meaning, but don't cover the full
spectrum of science policy. Ukip's policymakers are disastrously ignorant, while
the Greens are gradually maturing but are still in thrall to irrational fears.
Both might benefit from wider engagement with real scientists, whereas the BNP
and Christian Party are too far gone to be saved.

That leaves the Conservatives, Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

Labour's record on science policy is unfortunate, with the debacle over  and
representing particular lows. On the other hand, the party performs well in
areas such as climate and energy.

The Conservatives look better than Labour on paper, but here we come up against
the limits of an exercise like this. Can their answers really be trusted given,
for example, the ? At any rate, should the Tories win the election, the majority
of their MPs are likely to be new faces, which makes any predictions uncertain.

Do you choose the devil you know, or take a gamble on the devil you don't?
Except that this time there's a third way - the Liberal Democrats. Their science
minister is an activist in his own right, while . There are unanswered questions
and potential flaws in their energy policy, but overall they provided a much
more solid response to our questions than any of the other parties.

Which leads me to emerge from two weeks buried in paperwork and political
promises to find myself at this conclusion. If I were to cast my vote based
purely on science, it would be for the Liberal Democrats, for Nick Clegg and for
Evan Harris.

How much science matters when you cast your vote is up to you, but I'll leave
you with one final thought. Science itself may not be the biggest issue at this
election, but a commitment to science-based policy is a commitment to evidence.
Who would you trust more on the economy: a party prepared to listen to expert
evidence and properly test and review its ideas, or a party that abandoned
evidence as soon as it clashed with ideology? Tomorrow it's up to you.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                  May 5, 2010
                                 First Edition

A NIGHT TO REMEMBER;
HOW TO PLAN YOUR ELECTION VIEWING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1704 words


At one point earlier this year it looked as though Election Night 2010 might be
a rather subdued affair. Around a quarter of Returning Officers wanted to delay
the count in their constituencies until the following day, to save money and
reduce the risk of error through exhaustion. But swingometer addicts insisted
that the loss of excitement was too high a price to pay. Eventually, after
months of lobbying by the all-party Save General Election Night campaign, the
Government backed a Conservative amendment to the Constitutional Reform and
Governance Bill (finally enacted in the dying days of the last Parliament) which
requires parliamentary election counting to start "within four hours of the
close of the poll, save in exceptional circumstances".

With the election as delicately balanced as any in living memory, even
half-hearted enthusiasts may have cause to feel grateful for this decision
tomorrow night. Most major broadcasters offer extensive coverage (from 9pm on
Sky News and from 9.55pm on BBC1, ITV1 and BBC HD), and there is also
unprecedented scope this year for experiencing the drama online - not to mention
the mind-boggling scope for all-night Twitter commentary).

But it remains problematic to decide when, if at all, to go to bed: partly
because extensive boundary changes make it impossible to make anything but the
vaguest predictions of what will happen when but also because, in such a close
race, the crucial turning-points could turn out to be almost anywhere.

None the less, past experience suggests that key moments in the night are likely
to include the following:

10pm

Let the counting begin

Polling stations close, and broadcasters reveal their exit polls. These have
recently been fairly accurate, but have been known to get it badly wrong (for
example, in 1992, when they wrongly predicted a hung parliament, and in
October1974, when calculations based on exit polls predicted a Labour majority
of 144 - rather than the correct figure of three). Those itching for an excuse
for an early night may take a confident exit-poll-based verdict as their cue for
turning in, but if the race looks close you won't want to place too much
confidence in them. In any case, where's the fun in not stretching the process
out for as long as possible?

10.45pm

The first result?

The earliest result announcements will be imminent by now. These have tended to
come from the Labour heartlands in the north-east in recent years, with
Sunderland South being the first seat to declare its result for each of the past
four general elections (a win for Labour's Chris Mullin in each case). But
boundary changes have altered a number of constituencies in those parts, and
Sunderland South has been absorbed into the new constituency Houghton and
Sunderland South. So the honour of being the first to declare cannot go to the
usual winner.

11.30pm

Early marginals

Results from some relatively marginal constituencies begin to trickle in from
now onwards. For example: Torbay (about 11.40pm - although remember that all
times are even more approximate than usual); Wolverhampton South West,
Battersea, Putney (between 12.30 and 1am); Peterborough, Ilford North (about
1am). Putney produced the first surprise of the night in 2005, with the
Conservatives reclaiming the seat they lost in 1997.

1am, 7 May

Goodbye, Gordon?

A sighting of Gordon Brown might be expected from now onwards: his constituency,
Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, declared its result at 1.10am last time. But it will
be too early for him to react with any confidence to nationwide trends. Watch
out too for East Renfrewshire and Blackburn, where Jim Murphy and Jack Straw,
respectively, are a tiny bit less safe than Cabinet ministers ideally like to
be; and for Tooting, which the Conservatives could win with a 6.1 per cent swing
from Labour. If Tooting turns blue, an overall Cameron majority is a distinct
possiblity.

2am

Clegg-time

The redrawing of many constituency boundaries makes it harder than usual to
predict which results will arrive when. But it's safe to assume that a number of
significant results will be arriving around this time, including the marginal
Kent seat of Gravesham. Nick Clegg's seat, Sheffield Hallam, declared at 2.12am
in 2005.

2.30am

Were you still up for Balls?

If recent general elections are anything to go by, the overall result will be
becoming clear, with the remaining interest being largely concerned with
individual contests or the fate of individual candidates. For example, will
Hazel Blears (who didn't come out of the expenses scandal spectacularly well)
hang on to her theoretically safe seat in Salford and Eccles? And could Ed
Balls, in Morley and Outwood, conceivably provide another "Portillo moment", if
the Tories were to achieve a 10.5 per cent swing?

But recent general elections probably won't be anything to go by, not least
because of the LibDem factor. Talking of which, watch out for Aberdeen South,
which the Liberal Democrats could take from Labour with a 1.6 per cent swing. If
they do, it will mean that the night is going very well for them - which might
suggest a hung parliament.

3am

The Luton moment

Luton South declared its result at 2.58am last time. It will be worth watching
this time. Not since 1950 has a party won this seat in a general election (or
one of its predecessors, Luton East and Luton) without going on to form the next
government.

This time, with Labour's Margaret Moran standing down after the expenses
scandal, and Esther Rantzen complicating matters as an independent candidate,
the Conservatives need a 7.4 per cent swing to win - the kind of percentage
swing that they need nationwide to win an overall majority. (Talking-point: if
Ms Rantzen wins the seat, does that imply that she will form the next
government?)

Another interesting result may come in around now from Dorset West, where the
Liberal Democrats are seeking their own version of the "Portillo moment" via the
high-profile scalp of Oliver Letwin - for which they would require a 2.3 per
cent swing.

3.30am

All eyes on Cameron

David Cameron's constituency might be declaring its result around now. It is
possible that enough will now be known about the national picture for what he
says and does at the declaration to be of some interest. But he is unlikely to
linger, as he will want to get down to London as soon as possible.

More interest might attach to the result from Brighton Pavilion, where Green
leader Caroline Lucas has a realistic chance of becoming her party's first MP.
The impact of such a breakthrough would be huge: representation in Parliament
would bring funding, access to the airwaves and a boost in credibility that
could easily be translated into more seats in future. Conversely, failure to win
would be a devastating blow to morale that could destroy political momentum that
has taken years to build up.

4am

The battle for Barking

Similar calculations will be going through the head of the BNP's leader, Nick
Griffin. He's standing against Margaret Hodge in Barking - and would require a
stonking 16.5 per cent swing to defeat her. Such an outcome can be all but
discounted - except that, in the current climate, almost anything is possible.

Other results expected around this time include Richmond Park, which Zac
Goldsmith is attempting to win for the Conservatives from the Liberal Democrats,
and Derby North, where the Liberal Democrats need a 7.3 per cent swing to win
the seat from Labour. A LibDem victory here might reasonably be taken as a sign
that the night has been one of Lib Dem triumph and Labour disaster.

4.30am

The Speaker cornered?

In 2005, the main battle was over by now. Labour won its 324th seat - enough for
a majority - at 4.28am, in Corby. Michael Howard had conceded defeat seven
minutes earlier. This time, the question of who will form the next Government -
or whether or not Parliament will be hung - could remain unresolved It might,
however, be worth going to bed at this stage. Counts in Northern Ireland, which
includes several marginals, won't even begin until later in the morning. And
there are bound to be a few recounts to delay a final result still further.

But there will still be plenty of interesting things happening in individual
constituencies. For example: Tessa Jowell, Liam Byrne and Ben Bradshaw are
arguably a little bit vulnerable in, respectively, Dulwich and West Norwood;
Birmingham Hodge Hill; and Exeter. And there should be plenty of colour at the
declaration at Bethnal Green and Bow (where Labour's Rushanara Ali and Respect's
Abjol Miah are staging their own version of 2005's epic battle between Oona King
and George Galloway).

5am

A Pennine watershed

The Yorkshire seat of Colne Valley has been identified as another key
battleground in the struggle between the Liberal Democrats and Labour. If the
Liberal Democrats win, with a swing of 5.9 per cent, it will be taken as a sign
that the LibDem surge was more than just a passing phenomenon. Then again, if
that's the case, you'll probably have gathered that by now.

5.30am

The end in sight

If things are still in the balance, the result from Brentford and Isleworth
(which might come in around now) may clarify the picture. A key marginal, being
defended by controversial Health Minister Ann Keen, it's eminently winnable by
the Tories.

7am

All over bar the recounts?

Those who decided to go to bed earlier and catch up first thing in the morning
may well be congratulating themselves, while the up-all-night brigade will be
wondering what to do next. If the final balance of power in Parliament really
does depend on the last few seats, the tension could continue well into the day,
and beyond. In 2005, Harlow, the final seat (excluding South Staffordshire,
where the poll was postponed), didn't declare until 11.40am on the Saturday
after the election, after three recounts.

Late declarers this time are likely to include Buckingham (where UKIP's Nigel
Farage is among those taking on Speaker John Bercow) and Westmorland and
Lonsdale - which the Conservatives could snatch from the Liberal Democrats. But
the very last in will be Thirsk and Malton, a safe Tory seat where (following
the death of the Ukip candidate, John Boakes) the poll has been postponed until
27 May.

independent.co.uk/election2010

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Fury over 1.2m EU workers in Britain

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 149 words


LABOUR was blasted last night as it emerged there are FOUR times more Europeans
working in the UK than Brits in the EU.

Shock figures reveal up to 1.2million people from EU countries like Poland,
France and Germany are employed here.

By contrast, there are only 287,000 Brits working in other countries in the
European Union.

Immigration minister Phil Woolas was accused of dishonesty after he tried to
deny the figures during a BBC programme on immigration.

He claimed there were around 2.2million Britons "living and working" in other EU
countries - but this includes tens of thousands of people who have retired to
Spain or France.

He was left floundering when UKIP's Nigel Farage revealed the real numbers.

Last night Shadow immigration minister Damian Green said: "This Government has
been dishonest on immigration figures in a bid to play down the effect their
policies have had on British workers."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 5, 2010 Wednesday 10:32 AM GMT

Does David Cameron really want to win this election? If so, here's how

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 481 words


So the entire, suck-up-to-the-Lib-Dem swing voters strategy has failed. Well,
fine. Fair enough. Some of us could have told the Conservatives that four years
ago, but now's not the time for Told You Sos (there's always Friday for that,
bwa ha ha ha ha), now's the time for David Cameron to make up his mind whether
he wants to win this election convincingly or crawl past the finish line like
some knackered asthmatic in a gorilla costume in the London marathon and faff
about for the next five years as a poor man's Ted Heath. (Hat tip: Will8Ace)

Your choice, Dave. And the solution is very simple. It just depends on how agile
you are, how hungry you are for a mandate, and above all, on whether or not you
were lying your pants off about your alleged Euroscepticism.

Over to this post by Matthew Elliott at Kool-Aid Central.

As my  colleague Lee Rotherham documents, the prospect of a new IGC on the
Lisbon Treaty offer David Cameron a potentially game-changing opportunity, to
move the polls from hung Parliament territory towards a clear Conservative
majority.

Due to various procedural changes, the Lisbon Treaty is going to have to be
ratified by Parliament yet again after the General Election. David Cameron has
always been explicit that had he been Prime Minister when the Treaty came
forward  for ratification, he would have held a referendum. Until now that has
simply  been a hypothetical situation - but now it is set to become a reality.

If, as the EU Commission intends, an Inter-Governmental Conference on 17th/18th
June agrees a new version of the Lisbon Treaty, it will have to be put  before
Parliament. Will David Cameron remain true to his pledges on the topic  and
seize this opportunity by pledging to hold a referendum in that  circumstance?

As well as being the right thing to do, a referendum pledge now could be
dynamite in the last  few days of the election. Clegg and Brown would be put on
the spot,  challenged to make such a pledge themselves. If they did, then it
would be good for  Britain, we'd get the Lisbon referendum we were all promised
and Cameron would  have shown himself to be a leader. If they did not, then
Cameron would be  able to head into the election as only man willing to trust
the people by  holding the long-desired referendum.

This is a golden opportunity for the Conservatives to do the right thing by
Britain and to do themselves a favour. David Cameron should grab it with both
hands.

See also England Expects and Bruno Waterfield.

Incidentally, about my vote. If I were in Buckingham, I would definitely be
voting UKIP for the splendid Nigel Farage. Unfortunately, I live in a London
borough called Vauxhall. But that's OK, I have a brilliant constituency MP who
is pro-hunting, is a climate change sceptic, voted against the smoking ban and
the digital economy bill and emerged from the MPs' expenses scandal smelling of
violets...

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

I'm a Labour voter, but I'm hoping that this particular Tory will win

BYLINE: Sathnam Sanghera

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 754 words


So, with election night nearly upon us, what result are you most looking forward
to? Ed Balls being ousted Michael-Portillo-style from Morley and Outwood? The
Speaker, John Bercow, being pushed out of Buckingham by UKIP's Nigel Farage?
Personally, the thing that would give me most pleasure would be Tory candidate
Paul Uppal winning in the Wolverhampton South West constituency.

Though, having said that, my support for the 42-year-old is not a
straightforward affair. I recently spent an evening following him around
canvassing and couldn't bring myself to agree with anything he had to say on
policy and was so annoyed by the way he referred to David Cameron as "DC" that I
was sorely tempted to push him into a nearby canal.

Also, I'm a tribal Labour voter and am with Noel Gallagher who once compared
political loyalty to being a football fan: just because you hate the manager and
the team is doing badly, you don't start supporting someone else.

But there are two facts that make me want Uppal to succeed. First, he's an Asian
bloke. And, second, Wolverhampton South West was formerly Enoch Powell's
constituency, and such has been the shadow cast by his 1968 "rivers of blood
speech" that as recently as the 1997 election, the late MP Nicholas Budgen was
campaigning strongly against immigration and, as recently as 2007, Nigel
Hastilow was being forced to stand down as the Tory candidate for a nearby
constituency after writing in a Wolverhampton newspaper that many locals
believed Powell was right to say that mass immigration would change Britain
"irrevocably".

Indeed, I don't think it would be too much of an exaggeration to say that in the
decades that have followed Powell's speech, white Wulfrunians have basically
tended to vote Conservative because it was the party most likely to send the
darkies back, and the darkies have basically voted Labour because it was the
party most likely to let them stay.

When I was growing up there, political campaigning in Asian areas essentially
took the form of lines of men standing outside the polling station shouting
"second box, second box," at immigrants who couldn't, because of illiteracy or
lack of English, identify candidates on the polling card. It was taken for
granted they meant Labour.

Frankly, I never thought I'd see the day the local Tory party would select a
Birmingham-born Sikh businessman as a candidate, and even though I still
struggle with the concept of an Asian Tory - it feels as improbable as a
miaowing rabbit - if the child of immigrants is elected as a Tory MP in this
seat, which was Conservative from its inception in 1950 until Tony Blair took
over as Prime Minister, it will be an encouraging sign that politics in
Wolverhampton, the first town in Britain to experience mass immigration, have
finally been de-racialised.

Just as importantly, the election of a commercial property manager and father of
three, who experienced intense racism while attending school in Edgbaston in the
Seventies ("you'd get called 'filthy, smelly, dirty Paki' six or seven times
before you got to school, then it would carry on"), and who has been reductively
described by The Mail on Sunday as a member of David Cameron's "Obama Army",
will mean that Cameron's modernising efforts have been more than superficial.

There remains an impression that while the Conservative Party has changed
nationally, it is unprogressive at association level, as shown by the recent
controversy of the Bolton Tory councillor uploading a picture of a gorilla on
his blog next to a photo of an Asian Labour councillor, the Bromley councillor
sending out a string of e-mails to colleagues complaining about Asian Tory
candidates not having "normal" English names, the Pendle Borough Tory councillor
declaring there were "too many Pakis" in his town at a public meeting.

Indeed,whenanotherAsianTory, businesswomanSandip(now Baroness)Verma,ran in the
constituency ofWolverhampton SouthWestin2005andlost to Labour''s Rob Marris by
just 3,000 votes, she did so amid rumours, according to the BBC, "that old guard
traditionalists in the party had simply not turned out for her during the
campaign".

If this doesn't happen in 2010 and Uppal succeeds, it will be an indication that
one of the least progressive local political associations in Britain has finally
accepted the reality of multicultural Britain, and as much as I don't want to
wake up to a Conservative government on Friday, that will be a kind of
consolation.

"I was so annoyed that Iwas sorely tempted to push him into a canal"

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 5, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

One day to go ... Political firsts;
In brief

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9,12,13

LENGTH: 338 words


The shortest-serving MP was Alfred James Dobbs, elected in the 1945 general
election but killed in a car accident the next day

In the 1970 election the SNP had 65 candidates and only one winner: Donald
Stewart in Western Isles. It was a record number of candidates for only one seat

The US election of 1876 was won by one electoral vote. Rutherford B. Hayes
narrowly defeated Samuel J. Tilden to create a crisis that threatened to start a
new civil war

The record for the shortest-serving Prime Minister is held by the Earl of Bath,
in office for two days in 1746

Robert Kilroy-Silk, the TV talk-show host, left UKIP after only nine months,
branding it shameful and a joke

Michael Martin was the first Speaker in 300 years to be forced out, after
failing to deal with the expenses scandal

Constance Markievicz, right, was the first woman to be elected, but as a Sinn
Féin MP she did not take her seat in the House of Commons

A poll of more than 1,400 teachers found that 53 per cent believe the new
government should cut the number of initiatives issued by Whitehall

Manish Sood, the Labour candidate for Norfolk North West, was disowned by his
local party after describing Gordon Brown as "the worst Prime Minister ever".

ADS, the aerospace, defence and security trade organisation, set out a "space
manifesto", aiming for Britain's share of the space industry market to reach 10
per cent

Plane watch David Cameron got back on his campaign aircraft and narrowly avoided
the resurgent volcanic ash cloud to fly to Belfast, and then Glasgow in the
afternoon

Ed Balls, the Children's Secretary, is being tipped by bookmakers to supply this
election's "Portillo moment" by being defeated by the Tory candidate in the
Morley & Outwood constituency

The Most Rev Vincent Nichols, Archbishop of Westminster, urged the media to
promote "good neighbourliness" during austerity under the new government

London Glasgow East Renfrewshire Belfast Wrexham Leamington Spa Telford
Liverpool Manchester 4,729 7,129 7,185 Campaign miles Where they went yesterday

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

LENGTH: 1391 words


COLUMN

I'VE NEVER BEEN ONE TO TELL PEOPLE HOW TO VOTE, BUT ...

ON THE evening of June 11, 1987, I was part of a weary and unruly Press pack
doorstepping the home of Neil Kinnock's constituency agent in Islwyn, South
Wales.

The Labour leader and his entourage were holed up inside, anxiously awaiting the
result of that day's General Election.

Shortly after 10pm, when the last votes had been cast, Newsnight's Vincent Hanna
, the Michael Crick of his day , strode up to the front door waving an historic
piece of paper.

It was the result of the BBC's exit poll, predicting that Labour had won. From
within the house , I seem to remember it was a chalet bungalow, but I may be
mistaken , came rapturous cheers of celebration.

We're awwwllllll-riiiiiiiite!!!!

Within the hour, it became apparent this was what might be called kindly a
'rogue' poll.

By the time they were sweeping the chip wrappers off the floor of the local
leisure centre, where the count was taking place, Mrs Thatcher was on her way
back to Downing Street with a majority of 102.

I can still remember the haunted look of anguish on Kinnocchio's face as the
truth dawned and he trudged dejectedly to his car to prepare for five more years
of opposition.

I laughed all the way back to London.

Lovely, tidy, smashing.

Never believe your own publicity, old son.

Nor should anyone under-estimate the politician's capacity for self-delusion.

From that day forward, I haven't trusted a single opinion poll, exit or
otherwise. People tell the pollsters what they think they want to hear.

And polling companies are not above telling their paymasters what they want to
hear, either, such is the cut-throat competition among the various organisations
that have sprung up to feed the voracious appetite of the rock-around-the-clock
electronic media.

OK, so polling is much more sophisticated than it was in 1987, when there was
only NOP and Mori, the swingometers were made out of balsa wood and 24-hour
rolling news channels didn't exist. But, at best, it can be only a rough guide
to voting intentions.

That night in Islwyn, incredibly, there were people prepared to believe the
Newsnight exit poll, even though the sweep on the Labour battle bus was a Tory
victory of between 60 and 120 seats.

None was more gullible than Kinnock and those closest to him.

Another lesson I learned during a month on that campaign was that what happens
inside the bubble bears little relationship to the real world.

Away from the photo-opportunities, the stage-managed rallies and the cups of tea
with 'ordinary' folk, the world and his wife are getting on quietly with their
lives.

Only when something extraordinary explodes , such as Gordon Brown's Mrs Duffy
moment , does it impinge on the wider consciousness.

This time, the surreal TV debates have made a difference, putting the election
centre stage in our living rooms. Nick Clegg has clearly been the main
beneficiary, but whether that translates into votes and seats is still
uncertain.

Most people made up their minds before this campaign kicked off. They want to
see the back of Labour, even if they aren't over-enthusiastic about what comes
next.

What we've been witnessing is the protracted, unedifying death rattle of Gordon
Brown, which began three years ago when he decided against calling an election
he could have won easily.

This dreadful, dysfunctional sociopath boasts of his 'moral compass' but is, in
reality, a snivelling moral coward. He has run a tawdry, boastful campaign,
based on fear, lies and an exaggerated sense of self-entitlement , exactly the
same way he has run Britain since 2007.

This column has been listing his shortcomings since the day he took over from
Tony Blair. I told you on Day One he wasn't up to the job, even when the rest of
the star-struck media was hailing Brown as a towering beacon of honesty,
competence and, risibly, 'change'.

I'm not going to revisit all the sins of Labour over the past 13 years. If
there's any regular reader of this column who intends to vote Labour on
Thursday, I might as well give up now and get a job selling the Big Issue.

The Brown and Blair years have left Britain financially and morally bankrupt.
They foisted mass immigration by deception on an unwilling population, crushed
enterprise with bureaucracy and punitive taxation, locked Britain into a federal
Europe without a referendum and turned justice on its head via the 'yuman rites'
act.

There has been a relentless expansion of the surveillance state, ruthless
assaults on civil liberties and freedom of speech, and the legally-binding
demonisation of Christian values.

Not to mention turning out a generation of semi-literate school-leavers, the
destruction of the world's finest private pension system, a massive increase in
state interference in every aspect of our lives and the pernicious elf'*'safety
culture.

It would be a fitting epitaph if the party they appropriated for their personal
ambition is crushed into oblivion and replaced by the Rag, Tag and Bobtail
rabble that is the Liberal Democrats.

Truth is, the Lib Dems share Labour's enthusiasm for mass immigration, high
taxes, handing over power to Europe and just about everything else that is wrong
with this country.

On almost every issue they are at odds with the visceral instincts of the
majority of the British people.

Nick Clegg's popularity is based upon not being either Brown or David Cameron.
But to claim to be a tribune of the 'new politics' is preposterous.

The Lib Dems are just as corrupt and venal as the other parties, equally guilty
of fiddling their expenses and taking donations from convicted fraudsters and
non-doms.

God help us if enough people are taken in by this glib Piers Morgan impersonator
to award the Lib Dems the balance of power.

In the event of a hung parliament, Clegg's one 'non-negotiable' demand is
proportional representation, which would allow the Lib Dems to hold the country
to ransom in perpetuity. It's their only policy.

The Lib Dems haven't given a moment's serious thought to governing, to reducing
the crippling national debt, to tacking crime, you name it. Up until the first
TV debate, all Nick Clegg could think about was planning his next skiing
holiday.

The real outrage in our electoral system is the disgraceful and deliberate
imbalance between constituency sizes. Without Labour's 'rotten boroughs', the
Tories would be home and dry. As it is, one poll yesterday was still predicting
a Labour 'victory' even if Brown musters only a piffling 28 per cent.

Trust me, that ain't gonna happen. My view has been all along that Call Me Dave
would form the next government, with a small majority. The arithmetic has been
skewed by the freak Lib Dem showing, but I still think the Tories deserve to
win.

Unlike Cleggy and Saint Vinny, the Conservatives have spent the best part of
five years planning for government. They stand for individual liberty and
enterprise against the dead hand of the state.

They have been evasive over what needs to be done to tackle the economic
wasteland Brown has created. That's regrettable, but understandable, given the
infantilisation of much of the electorate and the fact that the 'debate' ,
especially in the hands of the BBC , starts from the assumption that every penny
of public spending is noble and inviolable.

In that respect, every party has been thoroughly dishonest.

I've never gone in previously for telling people how to vote, although I always
warn against the siren call of the Toytown nazis in the BNP.

To be honest, I guess most people reading this would agree with almost
everything in the UKIP manifesto. But UKIP can't win. A vote for UKIP is a
wasted vote, except in Buckingham where I'd vote Nigel Farage to get rid of
Speaker Bercow, a stinking symbol of the cynicism of the Rotten Parliament.

Elsewhere, I'd back decent constituency MPs such as Labour's Kate Hoey, in
Vauxhall, Geraldine Smith, in Morecambe, and the Liberals' Simon Hughes, in
Bermondsey.

And anyone but bloody Esther Rantzen, in Luton.

Now that push has come to shove, Labour is a festering corpse and Clegg is no
more ready for government that Kinnock was in 1987.

Call Me Dave is the only show in town. On the basis that we can kick him out if
he screws up , unlike any Lib/Lab pact under PR , anyone serious about getting
us out of this mess should ignore the polls, put their reservations aside and
vote Conservative.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's in the stars - a tall, dark stranger will win the election;
Tanya Gold consults a focus group fo The Dead to reveal who will be PM on Friday

BYLINE: Tanya Gold

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 747 words


Who will win the closest general election in a generation? To find out, I am
going a step beyond the normal channels of divination - Mori, Ipsos, Channel 4
News, my newsagent - and am contacting psychics, mediums and astrologers. I am
consulting a focus group of The Dead.

My first call is to Karen Chiarello, an astrologer. OK, she isn't asking The
Dead, she is asking the stars. "The astrological charts of both main party
leaders indicate significant career changes in 2010," she says, "but not until
later in the year." Hmm. "This points to the possibility of a hung parliament,
followed by a second election being called within three months of the eclipse on
June 26." A second election? And what then? "Cameron," she says, "will be ready
for a decisive win."

Betty Palko, a medium, lives in Surbiton. She works with tarot cards, "and an
angel". I don't know how the angel votes, but Betty votes Tory. "The
Conservatives are definitely going to win," she says. "He [David Cameron] is
reliable and trustworthy and noble and strong. Mrs Cameron is a wonderful person
and a great influence. The country will move out of the darkness and into the
light. We will have prosperity, abundance and victory." Is Betty Palko really
George Osborne? My next psychic is Jennifer Whelan. She consults The Dead - also
called Spirit - as I ask the questions. Who will win, I ask. "I have just been
told it's the Conservatives," she says, "by a very low margin." I decide to ask
The Dead about Nick Griffin - will he win a seat in Barking? Jennifer starts
talking very fast, without pausing. "Nick Griffin has really bad energy, very
bad. He was hanged in a past life," she says, "and he has come back for revenge.
He is on the path of darkness." I knew that - but will he win? "No," she says.

How about Nigel Farage of Ukip? Will he beat John Bercow in Buckingham? There is
a long pause. "[Spirit] has not given me anything," she says, eventually, "they
don't want to tell me. They don't want me to go near his energy ... My Nan won't
let me go there." Even The Dead are afraid of Nigel Farage, it seems.

I have always wondered: is William Hague kind? "Is William Hague kind?" she
asks. Spirit responds immediately: "Not particularly." She has a few more crumbs
for me, before they go. "George Osborne is jealous of David Cameron," she says,
"and Gordon Brown is very punctual."

The psychic Honor Broxap has done readings for Anne Robinson and Coleen Rooney.
"The Conservatives will win with a small majority," she says. How do you know?
"Every time I tried to picture Gordon as Prime Minister again, I got a cross,
not a tick."

Honor is the first to pick up on the Clegg bounce - the rest of The Dead, so
far, haven't known who he is. "The Lib Dems will get a great deal more seats,"
she says, coolly. Is David Cameron evil? (I'm only asking.) "Far from it," she
says. And Cameron's victory will maim Gordon Brown: "I see health problems. It
is going to break his heart." Honor's final prediction, fittingly for a
celebrity clairvoyant, is that Esther Rantzen will win in Luton South.

Later, I receive an email from a psychic called Ribbon Light. "I know nothing
about politics," says Ribbon Light, "but when I asked who would be the boss in
Parliament I was shown a man in a red jumper." That, unfortunately, could be
anyone.

Richard Cuthbert, the tarot reader, is sitting in his home in Hartlepool and
looking at photographs of politicians. This, he says, will help him "tune into
the energy of the collective consciousness". And what does the collective
consciousness say? "I have a sense," he says, "of people turning on David
Cameron. We will attach a lot of bad energy onto him." Gordon Brown, meanwhile,
isn't well. "He has bad digestion," says Richard, but he calls it for Labour
anyway, "with a very slim majority", possibly linked to the number 727.
Richard's is, in psychic terms, a rogue poll.

I call my friend, who is a political journalist. Is the number 727 politically
significant? "What are you doing?" he asks. I tell him. "You have embarked on a
psychotic and absurd task. You may as well read pigeon entrails." Bring me
pigeon entrails immediately.

Richard has one last insight for Telegraph readers. There is, he says, "a lot of
change around Peter Mandelson. When I look at his photo I get excited energy.
But it could be coming from his own ego."

And so, at the end of the day, The Dead say the same as YouGov: it will probably
be the Conservatives, but more than that, they don't know.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'If I tried to picture Gordon as Prime Minister, I got a cross, not a
tick,' says psychic Honor Broxap
'PHOTOLIBRARY.COM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Campaign 2010: On the ground: Labour has left this nation a more open-minded
place: Returning to the UK after seven years away, Gary Younge found a more
tolerant country beset with contradictions

BYLINE: Gary Younge

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1424 words


When the police asked about setting up a stall at Scarborough's first gay pride
event last September Christine Mark turned them down. She feared the turnout
might not exceed six - her, her partner of 33 years, Jane, and two more couples.
There had been reticence in the community when she was planning it.

"Some people had asked whether we might not have an indoor event. I told them
they misunderstood the idea of what Pride was all about."

In the end they needn't have worried. More than 100 people showed to up to the
picnic in Peasholm Park. Some came from as far away as Sheffield, but most were
local. Staff at the park dressed in pink and baked a pink cake. More than 30
years earlier Scarborough's mayor had refused to host a gay rights conference,
because he didn't want "that kind" in the town. This time the mayor turned up
with his wife and cut the cake.

There was one letter of complaint about the event in the local paper, but the
next week there were several more of support, plus an editorial endorsement.
After Jane and Christine tied the knot in a civil partnership the most common
reaction was: "Why did it take you so long?" When they pointed out to people
that such unions used to be illegal, people looked surprised.

Whatever happens on Thursday there are all sorts of ways in which Labour has
left an indelible mark on how British people view themselves and each other. The
record is contradictory. Broadly speaking, Britain feels like a more
open-minded, cosmopolitan and less parochial place than it was 13 years ago.

The country approaches May 6 with more than double the proportion of women MPs
and treble the number of minority MPs than there were before Labour came to
power. In 1997 Ben Bradshaw was the lone gay parliamentarian. On Thursday the
Tories have 20 openly gay and 44 minority ethnic candidates, while a record
proportion of all the candidates standing are women.

But the results tell us something quite different. The election of more women -
still low by international standards - did little to break the blokeish mould at
the helm. Meanwhile, in last year's European elections the BNP won two seats and
more than 6% of the vote. Ukip came second, ahead of Labour. The BNP and Ukip
got a quarter of the popular vote between them. In the five years after I left
the country for America in 2003 racist attacks rose by 28%. Islamaphobia and
antisemitism have seen a steep rise. Few would have predicted this when Labour
came to power.

It's not difficult to see where some of this has come from. Without doubt, the
biggest and most dramatic change in recent years has been the arrival of eastern
European migrants.

In Stevenage, where my mother used to have to order West Indian hot pepper sauce
a week in advance, there is now at least one Polish delicatessen in the town
centre. At my local Nandos in Hackney, north London, which used to be staffed
primarily by black students of west African origin, I was now being served by
Katja from Latvia; I saw no black faces at the grill. I found these changes
quite exciting, but I did wonder how those other students were funding their way
through college. After a while I stopped assuming that white people in
restaurants and hotels necessarily spoke English as a first language.

This held two main consequences for British identity. First it started a new
chapter in our immigration narrative. Second, it finally ruptured the connection
in the public psyche between immigration and race.

This was what was most illuminating about Gillian Duffy's comments to Gordon
Brown. She lives in a town where one in five is Muslim and the Bangladeshi
population increased 58% in a decade. But when it comes to immigration her
specific concerns were about eastern Europeans.

So the movement of people and the colour of people are no longer routinely
confused. The assumptions about who is local and who is foreign are no longer
assumed to be discernible by the naked eye. Thanks to war and terror the
emphasis has also shifted away from racial difference to religious and cultural
difference in particular.

None of this means racism has disappeared. Xenophobia, religious intolerance and
racism are not synonymous but bleed into one another. The current framing of the
debate about immigration has clear racist overtones, even if it is being driven
in part by an anxiety about white foreigners. But the faultlines have clearly
shifted from colour to culture, race to religion, language and ethnicity.

It goes without saying that Britain would have undergone profound changes in
more than a decade regardless. Thanks to new technology, cheap air fares,
demographic shifts, EU expansion, war, terrorism and globalisation, the world,
and our place in it, has been radically transformed.

Nonetheless, it is worthwhile remembering how far things have come. Back in 1997
Bradshaw's Conservative opponent, Adrian Rogers, openly branded his Labour
counterpart "Bent Ben" while describing gay love as "sterile, disease-ridden and
God-forsaken".

A year later, not long after Peter Mandelson and Nick Brown were outed, the
tabloids sensed an opportunity to spark a moral panic. The Sun asked: "Tell us
Tony: Are we being run by a gay mafia?" The Daily Mirror claimed the public had
a right to know their politicians' sexual orientation and ran a phone poll
asking readers if they agreed. The next day they had a shock. Sixty-two per cent
of their readers voted against them.

A few days later, the Sun issued what amounted to an apology. "The Sun is no
longer in the business of destroying closet gays' lives by 'exposing' them as
homosexuals," it said.

Polls today show a majority of Britons support gay marriage, including a
majority in every party. Attitudes may have shifted, but they did not shift by
themselves. "If I were voting on gay rights alone I would vote Labour," says
Jane, who will be voting Green.

Nor should this suggest that these developments have been universally accepted.
Last week a Tory candidate was forced to resign after saying that while he
"supports the rights of homosexuals to be treated within concepts of (common
sense) equality and respect, he will not accept their behaviour is normal". Over
the weekend it was revealed that Philippa Stroud, an influential Tory candidate,
had set up a church to "cure" gays by driving out their "demons".

In all of this, gay rights serves as a metaphor for the sweeping changes that
have taken place and the anxieties they have produced. Rogers railed not just
against what Bradshaw stood for, but who he was: "He's a media man, a
homosexual, he likes Europe, he studied German, he lived in Berlin, he lives in
London and he rides a bike. He's everything about society which is wrong."

Shortly before I moved to the US it seemed as though the conduit for these
prejudices was the Countryside Alliance, which held the biggest demonstration in
British history at the time.

At one demonstration a poster bearing the Alliance's logo depicted the
agriculture minister, Nick Brown, as a man "who loves gays and buggers the
countryside". At the time, the Countryside Alliance looked like it could present
itself as the largest immovable object to New Labour. Where all that rural
resentment and energy went I'm not sure.

What is certain is that while many of the progressive changes feel permanent
they also seem, to many, quite precarious. Shortly after the publication of the
Macpherson report there was a brief moment where racial and ethnic difference
was openly embraced. That period saw Chris Offili and Steve McQueen win the
Turner Prize, Goodness Gracious Me make its TV debut and the publication of
Zadie Smith's White Teeth. Then came 9/11, Afghanistan, Iraq, the war on terror,
7/7 and the onset of moral panic.

Similarly, for all their achievements Jane and Christine have been ignored by
gay friends because they were with families or friends and didn't want to be
exposed. After the picnic they also threw a masked ball so that those fearful of
being exposed could still participate. "We're moving in the right direction but
there's a long way to go," says Christine.

Across town at the Mecca bingo hall most feel comfortable with lesbian and gay
equality. "That's the way it is nowadays," said one elderly man. "You've got to
live and let live." Only one said homosexuality wasn't "normal", but added "It's
different though for younger folk."

Captions:

Speciality fare

Dominik Wasilewski outside the Dwa Koty delicatessen in Crewe, a town with one
of Britain's biggest Polish communities

Photograph: Christopher Furlong/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Campaign 2010: Simon Hoggart's election sketch Political stone, paper, scissors
- plus dolphin

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 506 words


Buckingham must be one of the strangest battles in this election. John Bercow is
running as Speaker, traditionally unopposed by the main parties - but being
harassed by an independent Tory and by Nigel Farage, the former leader of Ukip.
Mr Farage's campaign is based on pubs. He's never denied liking a drink, so he
does five or six pubs a night, and says it's going very well.

They may be the only party with a gift shop, where you can buy mugs, Ukip beach
towels, saucy T-shirts saying "I love it when you talk straight to me", "Keep
the Pound" dressing gowns and jars of Ukip beetroot chutney.

Mr Farage says that in the very rural south of the constituency they dislike
John Bercow because he is thought to be a turncoat who nearly joined Labour. He
says that there is less concern about his expenses and house flipping.

Which would be bad news for John Stevens, the former Tory MEP who is also
running, as a pro-European. He became fearful that Farage might win, so he
decided to run on a stop-Farage platform. Farage in turn is on a stop-Bercow
mission. Local surveys suggest that Bercow's greatest threat comes from Stevens,
which means he has to fight a stop-Stevens campaign, and thus the circle is
complete, a sort of political version of stone, paper, scissors.

Mr Stevens does believe that expenses matter, so he is frequently accompanied by
his dolphin, Flipper. It's a pun based on the MPs' house expenses scandal. The
dolphin waves a flipper at people as they pass. It's hot in the dolphin suit,
but it keeps off the rain and hail. They used to have an orange U-kipper as well
until they decided they were far enough ahead of Farage not to need to bother.

We toured some of the helplessly beautiful villages. In North Marston, there is
definitely some anti-Bercow feeling. One man dislikes him for having too many
pictures of himself in his election address. "He's bumming his own load," the
man adds, and everyone nods sagely at this local lore, except that no one knows
what it means. It didn't sound nice.

"I thought I was pretty good at making enemies, but he's brought it to a fine
art," says Stevens. He tells the voters, "kick out the Speaker, and you'll send
a message to parliament it can't ignore."

After lunch we set off to canvass the constituency's most famous inhabitants.

Tony and Cherie Blair live at Wotton, a magnificent baroque pile - clock tower
and cupola - at the end of miles of winding lanes. Apart from the noise of
ride-on mowers, it's probably been unchanged here for 300 years. Our party
marches towards the South Pavilion, which the Blairs own - the candidate, a
driver, three campaign workers, including Mark Seddon, who used to be the Labour
candidate here, his daughter Saffron, me and the dolphin, looking more like a
rag week event than a political campaign.

But Tony and Cherie are out. "They left two hours ago," says a man in carpet
slippers. Curses! We make do by pushing a leaflet under the locked gates. The
only one who doesn't look rueful is the dolphin, because his smile is fixed by
wires.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Campaign 2010: My election: Flying the flag for morris dancing and cider on the
political fringe: Alexis Petridis follows the Wessex Regionalists to find out
what makes the minor parties tick

BYLINE: Alexis Petridis

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1461 words


It is a wet lunchtime in Chipping Norton, and no one seems interested in the
cause of the Wessex Regionalists. The party's president, Colin Bex, tramps along
the glistening pavements, attempting to drum up interest in his efforts to
unseat David Cameron as MP for the Witney constituency in Oxfordshire. He also
wants to promote his party's ideology, which centres on the idea of a devolved
parliament for the Wessex region, but offers up a curious mish-mash of
agrarianism, wealth redistribution and a nostalgia for pre-industrial revolution
England that would give the writers of Lark Rise to Candleford pause, as well as
thunderous condemnation of the current political system and promotion of "the
culture of Wessex".

Questioned on what the culture of Wessex might involve, Bex offers: "Its own
traditional brand of morris dancing." "Cider," chips in the party's secretary
general, David Robins. "Thomas Hardy, Jane Austen, William Barnes."

But even with the promise of more morris dancing and cider, it's looking like a
hopeless task. The most engaged voter we've come across is a pensioner,
attracted by the party's flag, carried by Nick Xylas, who defected to the Wessex
Regionalists from the Green party, bringing their total membership to 11. The
pensioner is happy to argue about Wessex's boundaries but, sadly, recoils from
the suggestion he take a leaflet.

We have been doing this for a half an hour and I'm already both deeply
discouraged and increasingly suspicious of the number of people we've met who
claim not to be registered to vote in Witney. "A lot of tourists come to
Chipping Norton," offers Xylas, hopefully.

But clearly it takes more than inclement weather and public indifference to
dampen the spirits of Colin Bex: "Third on the ballot paper! X for Bex!" he
cries at another hastily departing form. Indeed, after a few hours in his
company, I'm beginning to wonder what it would take to dent Bex's ebullience.
Certainly not vast public indifference to his cause, which has invariably come
as standard over the 36 years Bex has spent on the outermost fringes of British
politics.

This is the sixth general election Bex has stood in: his greatest success came
in Windsor and Maidenhead in 1979, when he got 251 votes but was still beaten by
a man in a pantomime horse outfit, representing the Willy Shovel It Mushroom
party. Welcome to the world of the minor political party, a world of apathy,
sodden pavements and the ever-looming possibility of being trounced by a
pantomime horse. It's the province of the Christian party - which in the past
has spiked its grimly anti-gay, anti-abortion agenda with some lively ideas
regarding the dragon on the Welsh flag representing Satan - and the Mum's Army,
whose campaign against yob behaviour was founded by Take a Break magazine.
Otherwise it exists almost entirely below the radar of the media.

There was a flicker of interest in the Wessex Regionalists' early days, thanks
to the involvement of Bex's co-founder Alexander Thynn, then Viscount Weymouth,
now the Marquess of Bath. It's hard not to feel his patronage must have come as
something of a mixed blessing: on the one hand, he has a high media profile; on
the other, perhaps the wifelets and the penchant for kaftans and erotic murals
might have proved something of a hindrance to being taken seriously as a
political force. Either way, he defected to the Liberal Democrats.

Today, the party's main means of communication with the electorate, besides the
leaflets and an interview on local radio, is its website, where its 100-point
manifesto can be found. The day I look at it, one of the chapters has received
14 hits.

And yet, there are people like Colin Bex in virtually every constituency:
doggedly campaigning away, apparently unabashed by the fact that they're doomed
to failure from the outset. The Electoral Commission website lists dozens and
dozens of them: Vivamus, A Country Once Proud, The John Lilburne Democratic
party, Integrity UK, Keep Bucks Blue, the latter presumably ever-vigilant for
the creeping menace of communism in Little Missenden.

Given the number of voters who claim to feel disenfranchised by the main
parties, this should theoretically be their moment. Bex is optimistic - "It's
lethal to guess what will happen, but I have a hunch, I have a feeling" - but
our experience on the streets of Chipping Norton strongly suggest his optimism
may be misplaced.

Nevertheless, I'm fascinated by minor parties. Not the joke candidates, who in
Cameron's constituency include not merely Howling Laud Hope of the Monster
Raving Loony William Hill party, but gormless, witless "comedy terrorist" Aaron
Barschak. They're obviously wasting everyone's time, including their own. It's
the serious ones I'm interested in. What possesses them to do it? Are they an
essential part of the democratic process, nobly standing up for their beliefs?
Or are they victims of their own monumental hubris, effectively mono-maniacal
message board bores and late-night phone-in regulars? Furthermore, what's it
like to spend your life devoted to a political cause no one else cares about?
What happens when you have a party and no one turns up?

I've alighted on the Wessex Regionalists, not because of any great support for
their policies, but simply because they seem both committed - fighting seven
general elections over 36 years - and comparatively benign.

I first encountered Bex earlier in the week at a hustings in Woodstock. He's
easy to spot, having handily turned up dressed as a venerable English eccentric:
loud shirt, white suit, mutton-chop whiskers, big rosette. When I arrive he's
answering a question about global warming; the other candidates talk about
recycling and international accords, but Bex launches into an impassioned
harangue about the industrial revolution. His fellow candidates shuffle their
notes. The UK Independence party and, mercifully, Aaron Barshack are among those
who have failed to show, but there's a guy standing in for David Cameron, a
well-informed local independent, a youthful Lib Dem woman, a Green and a
representative of the Labour party whose technique for winning over one of the
safest Tory seats in Britain seems to largely involve making
check-out-this-loony faces whenever his opponents are speaking. When it comes to
Bex's turn, you actually fear for the safety of the Labour representative's
physiognomy, not least when the former outlines his party's tax policy. "The top
10% of earners must be taxed at 100% and the money given to parish councils,"
declares Bex. By the time he's finished speaking, it's gone up to 101%, leading
to sneaking suspicion he might be making up the Wessex Regionalists' tax policy
as he goes along: either way, judging by the cars parked outside Woodstock's
plethora of upscale bistros, it doesn't seem an idea likely to find much favour
in the Cotswolds.

Incredibly, however, during a discussion about local government, Bex not only
appears to find some favour with the audience, who like his line about the
dissolution of top-down central bullying, but his fellow candidates: "I agree
with Colin," offers the Labour guy, his eyebrows finally under control.
"Regional government is important." Everyone else agrees with that too, but
alas, Bex's Nick Clegg moment is rather fleeting: any sense of an ideological
entente cordiale between the Wessex Regionalists and the major parties is
upended by his refusal to shake the hand of David Cameron's representative at
the end of the debate. "I couldn't bear to touch his fat sausage fingers," he
says, wrinkling his nose, which puts paid to the idea that he simply enjoys the
business of politics, the cut-and-thrust excitement and clubbable atmosphere of
a general election. "Oh no," he frowns. "I hope the other parties wish we'd
bugger off. That means we're doing our job."

Nor could you accuse him of hubris, given that his aims are so modest. "I would
be happy if I got over 100 votes," he admits in Chipping Norton. "I would be
very happy with 200 or 250." He smiles. "I don't think I'm wasting my time. I'm
not there to get into parliament. There's not a precedent for someone like me to
get in. It can't happen. I'm doing it because I'm utterly convinced my ideas are
right, and that, unless they're put into place, the next crash to come will be
the crash to end all crashes. I was quoting Shelley last night, something about
how out of the ashes of your failure comes the very thing you were aiming for.
That's fine with me."

And with that, the Wessex Regionalists head off in search of prospective voters,
their flag wilting a little in the rain.

Captions:

Wessex Regionalist candidate Colin Bex leads party members Nick Xylas and David
Robin in Chipping Norton

Photograph: Graeme Robertson for the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Hundreds sign petition in fight over West Park Centre

BYLINE: John Baronguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 822 words

ABSTRACT

* Community groups campaign over clouded future of Leeds community centre* But
Labour accused of 'whipping up a campaign for cheap votes' and 'scaremongering'
by Lib Dems and Tories

FULL TEXT

A community campaign to stop a popular Leeds community facility from being
turned into houses is gathering momentum, with hundreds signing a petiton.

Linda Cullen, from Moor Grange Action Group is a leading light in a bid to stop
the West Park Centre, which campaigners say is used by about 2,000 people a
week, being turned into a housing development.

The facilities are currently at the  ahead of the local and national elections,
with Labour calling for Leeds council to remove the centre from the list, but
Conservatives and Liberal Democrats accusing Labour of scaremongering and
electioneering.

The centre is temporarily being used by the Northern Ballet while a new building
in Leeds city centre is under construction, and is on Leeds council's strategic
housing land availability assessment (SHLAA) list - which means a property
developer could buy it.

Cullen said:

"We have no other community facilities in the West Park area - this centre is
used by dozens of groups and organisations and there's a lot of work done with
children with special needs. It's probably one of the most-used civic buildings
in Leeds.

"Community groups in West Park have been trying to persuade the current
administration on Leeds council that West Park Centre is a valuable, much- used
and much-loved community and city-wide asset, that is totally irreplaceable
without spending huge sums of money."

Cullen added that a petition started at Easter-time had proved popular, with
hundreds signing it.

Fellow campaigner Neil Craven told me yesterday that he felt the centre could be
a regional asset if there was proper investment in it.

Political row over centre

The West Park Centre is right on the border of Leeds West and Leeds North West
constituencies for this Thursday's general election.

Labour yesterday held a lunchtime photocall at the centre.

Rachel Reeves, Labour parliamentary candidate for Leeds West, said it was a
vital resource for the community which must not be lost.

She added: "I've been accused of scaremongering and electioneering by the
Liberal Democrats and Tories - but all the Lib Dem and Tory-run Leeds council
needs to do is take the centre off the list and that would be the end of it."

But Leeds North West Conservative candidate Julia Mulligan said she was angry
over Reeves' comments - and she put the blame on Labour for putting the centre
site on the SHLAA list when they ran the council.

Mulligan, who said she used the centre for a meeting last week to demonstrate
her commitment, added: "There has been a very very clear commitment from Leeds
council to keep facilities on this site - that was unequivocably stated by
council leader Andrew Carter when he stood up at full council.

"Labour are just using this as an election issue."

Mulligan added that 'greedy' property speculators were circulating around the
West Park Centre area, particularly the playing fields, because of the Labour
government's housing targets which she said the Tories would abolish were they
to win power.

'Typical and desperate' tactics

Liberal Democrat parliamentary candidate Greg Mulholland said it was a shame
that the centre was being 'kicked about like a political football'.

He said he was a supporter of the West Park Centre - both as the MP for the area
during the past five years and as patron of Leeds Youth Opera, which also uses
the site.

"It's typical and desperate Labour tactics - they're trying to stir up
falsehoods. I have supported the West Park Centre in the past five years as MP
and held surgeries there - we need to have a centre that is able to provide the
type of activities that it does currently."

Headingley Liberal Democrat councillor Jamie Matthews - who is a member of the
inner North West area committee on Leeds council which geographically covers the
West Park Centre - said he was angry at what he described as Labour 'whipping up
a campaign for cheap votes'.

He added: "As councillors we have persistently said that the centre is not up
for sale - it's sad that Labour have resorted to this. The local Liberal
Democrat councillors have said over and over that we support it and we always
will."

The candidates standing for  are: Joanna Beverley, British National Party; David
Blackburn, Green; Ruth Coleman, Liberal Democrat; Joe Marjoram, Conservative;
Jeff Miles, UK Independence Party; Rachel Reeves, Labour.

The candidates standing for are: Trevor Bavage, Alliance for Green Socialism;
Judith Blake, Labour; Geoffrey Bulmer, British National Party; Martin Hemingway,
Green; Greg Mulholland, Liberal Democrat; Julia Mulligan, Conservative; Alan
Procter, English Democrats; Mark Thackray, UK Independence Party.What do you
think? Have your say in the comments section below.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

Cameron's Euro alliance is on the rocks

BYLINE: Edward McMillan-Scottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 968 words

ABSTRACT

Edward McMillan-Scott: The Tories are trying to shore up the alliance that has
left their MEPs ignored and raised questions about Cameron's judgment

FULL TEXT

David Cameron's controversial European alliance, which  during the leaders'
debates, is set to unravel. The  was put together by Mark Francois, promoted for
the task to the shadow cabinet. William Hague had  from Cameron's decision to
quit the mainstream and form a new grouping, through a leak to the Sunday Times.
Nick Robinson also reported Hague's doubts during last June's Euro election
results programme on BBC TV.

Cameron's mistake was not only to associate with extremists, but also to rely on
fragmentary and unstable east/central-European allies. The association with the
Tories gave respectability to parties like  against whose anti-Semitic,
homophobic  I won re-election as vice-president of the European parliament last
year - a stand for which I was . The party was specifically  after in-depth
research by two officials, but it ignored them. They resigned in protest.

The co-founders of the 54-MEP European Conservatives and Reformists (ECR) group
in the European parliament, the nationalist Czech ODS (Civic Platform), changed
its leader last month after  made anti-Semitic and homophobic remarks. He has
been replaced by a more pro-European leader, Petr Necas who, according to Prague
sources, may resurrect the ODS's former alliance with the mainstream European
Peoples' Party (EPP), even before the 28 May Czech general election. The
carries an article by one of its leading MEPs, in which he derides the ECR's
ineffectiveness.

Given this uncertainty, the Tories are  to shore up the group in case of
defections. Under the European parliament's rules, a group must have a minimum
of 25 MEPs from at least seven member states. The  has 54 MEPs: 25 Tories, 15
Poles, nine Czechs and five individual members including the Latvian, whose
party , and a Hungarian, whose party dissolved in . Its Dutch MEP has already
started to form a .

I am told by a senior MEP from , the rightist regional party in northern Italy,
that the Tories are trying to woo them. They currently sit in a group with Ukip,
whose  because, she claimed Lega Nord is antisemitic.

to Europhobes in 2005 to pull out of the EPP has been  as recently as , which
called it "short-sighted. Britain must not ... retreat to a Little Englander
role in the world" and , which said that "the party is allied in the European
parliament with homophobic nationalists".

Last autumn the Economist led a media onslaught by describing the new group in a
entitled "Cameron's ransom" as "a shoddy, shaming alliance". The theme was
picked up by in the Daily Telegraph,  in the Observer,  in the Times and  in the
Financial Times the same weekend. Much as , these are not leftwing commentators.

Most people,  in touch with me, think that  is simply bad for Britain.

The EPP's 265-strong majority group in the European parliament  Cameron with
routine access to Angela Merkel, Nicholas Sarkozy and all the other centre-right
leaders in the EU through its . EPP leaders have pre-summit gatherings such as
that last month on Greece's deficit. As prime minister, because the , Cameron
could only watch events on his hotel room TV.

But agenda-setting monthly portfolio meetings of ministers are also now being
preceded by  from the same family - the dominant EPP, the Socialists and the
Liberals. These meetings will discuss areas of vital concern to Britain. Under
the Lisbon treaty, most EU policies are now decided by majority vote in . These
include many City, business and industrial issues, farm and fishing policies,
climate change and transport.

Ministers also determine foreign policy and home affairs matters. British Tory
ministers would have . Cameron's pledges to attempt reforms of the EU - on
social and business policies, for example - will  among 27 member states. His
recent remarks about not seeking an immediate confrontation with Brussels
suggest that he is looking for a pretext for the in/out referendum being . They
will dominate his green benches after 6 May, according to a survey by
Conservative Home.

Last month, the secretary-general of the EPP party fed speculation that, after
the UK election, , "but on our terms". As leader of the Tory MEPs during the
1999 Euro election, I worked with William Hague to negotiate a more detached
relationship with the EPP. The renewed link was described in glowing terms by
Hague: "We have shot Labour's fox," he declared, after jibes from the government
about Tory isolation in Europe.

Cameron's new alliance has undermined many of his hardworking MEPs. It is
insignificant and ignored in the European parliament. It has caused him
considerable  and has proved to be . His deputy leader Hague - "" - was right to
warn Cameron against it. The whole episode not only raises questions about , but
also his claim to want to be "in Europe, not run by Europe".

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday

SNP and Plaid Cymru champion a green revolution

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1443 words

ABSTRACT

Both the Scottish and Welsh nationalist parties are passionate advocates of
action against climate change

FULL TEXT

So far I've covered the major UK parties, but in Scotland and Wales elections
are contested between a different set of players, with the Scottish National
Party (SNP) and Plaid Cymru representing nationalist voters in their respective
countries. Discussion of these parties' policies is often centred around
devolution, but how do they perform on science?

I also take a brief look at the BNP and the Christian Party towards the end of
this article.

shows a business-minded attitude to science and technology, with pledges to
upgrade Wales' IT infrastructure. On the environment it calls for nothing less
than a 'green revolution', emphasising job creation and initiatives that enable
communities to take part in projects suchs as small-scale energy production and
community-based farming. Some leaders promise a Ferrari in every garage, Plaid
Cymru promises a goat - and I highlight that as a compliment, although given the
lack of efficiency of small farms I'm not sure how viable a strategy they are
for curbing emissions.

The SNP makes little mention of science in its , but has some interesting ideas
on the environment, including a focus on preserving marine ecosystems, and an
initiative to become a world leader in carbon storage. Unfortunately, the SNP
did not respond to our questions, so where possible its views have been inferred
from its manifesto, website and policy statements.

: Science funding

Do you plan to maintain Britain's science budget below the European average?

Plaid Cymru's response continues the business-oriented theme evident in its
manifesto, bringing the party surprisingly close to the Conservative and Labour
positions, which seem to view science as primarily a tool for innovation in the
economy. It's difficult to tell whether the lack of blue-sky thinking has
ideological roots, or if it's simply the consequence of dealing with the needs
of a much smaller nation with fewer resources to speculate with. The creation of
a national academy is an interesting but slightly vague proposal.

The centrepiece of the SNP's campaign is a pledge to protect Scotland from cuts
to public services, including an attack on wasteful schemes such as ID cards.
Having preserved Scotland's budget, it would then invest considerably in
research, with the ambitious aim of creating 60,000 green jobs.

Alternative medicine

If the balance of evidence suggests that a treatment does not perform any better
than placebo, should it be supported by the NHS?

The SNP supported patient access to alternative medicine in its 2007 manifesto.
I couldn't find any similar mention in the 2010 campaign, so it's unclear
whether the party still supports it. Plaid Cymru, meanwhile, has no specific
policies on alternative medicine.

Simon Singh: Libel

What will your party do to reduce the chilling effect of our libel laws on
science?

Plaid Cymru has joined the cross-party consensus on the need to change libel
laws. The Libel Reform campaign is focused on laws that apply in England and
Wales, and so the question is less relevant to the SNP.

Climate change/Energy

Should nuclear power be part of our country's strategy for reducing greenhouse
gas emissions? How soon can we bring new plants online?

Both Plaid Cymru and the SNP are passionate advocates of action against climate
change, and both adopt a range of very similar policies in this area, rejecting
the need for nuclear power stations in their countries, preferring to draw on
their natural resources to develop renewable energy supplies. Plaid Cymru's
objection to nuclear appears slightly more ideological, whereas the SNP points
to a lack of any need for it for the relatively small Scottish population.

Both parties put a lot of faith in the potential of a green revolution to create
jobs, with the SNP aiming for 60,000 new jobs, and Plaid Cymru planning a
massive expansion of the renewable energy industry. The differences lie in the
details, with the Scottish exploring the possibility of becoming a world-leading
carbon importer, and the Welsh seeking to construct local, sustainable
communities self-reliant in energy where possible.

How feasible these plans are given the investment available is unclear, and it's
interesting that the SNP's policies seem more centralised than the local
initiatives outlined by Plaid Cymru. But clearly both parties have a very
passionate commitment to this area.

David Nutt: Drug policy

To what extent should drug policy be based on scientific evidence? What
evidence, if any, would you require to declassify a drug?

"We believe drug policy should be entirely based on scientific evidence."

It's a bold and welcome statement. Plaid Cymru also clearly sees drug harm as a
public health issue rather than a criminal problem, with the party's policies
focusing on rehabilitation and education. Its call for "a public debate over
drugs laws" is admirable, but given the poor state of media reporting on the
issue it would probably backfire. Notably, Plaid is the first party responding
to these questions to explicitly state that it would decriminalise a drug -
cannabis.

The SNP adopts a similar public health focus, with an emphasis on treatment and
rehabilitation. However, the rhetoric on its website still falls into the trap
of suggesting that .

Other parties

The BNP bravely joins  in the fight against the fight against climate change,
although it does still take environmental protection and green belts seriously.
There appears to be a lack of understanding when it comes to climate change,
which the party believes to be a theory "which holds that all western nations
need to be stripped of their manufacturing base and pay untold billions to the
Third World to build up their industries".

Its ideal of libel reform also bucks the trend, with plans to introduce laws
which "will hold journalists and their media outlets criminally liable for
knowingly publishing falsehoods".

From the desk of the party's sci-fi spokesman we have uncosted proposals for a
200mph intercity maglev network. Under the BNP, soil would be "reinvigorated",
GM produce would be banned, and the family farm would become the basic unit of
British agriculture. If you want to keep reading the 84 pages I couldn't be
bothered to look at, .

The Christian Party has an innovative approach to policy-making that can be
summed up as "what does the Bible say?" This is taken to such extremes that all
taxes - VAT, income tax, corporation tax, and so on - would be set at 20%,
apparently because this is what the pharaohs of Egypt were told to set their
taxes at in Genesis.

Abortion is obviously a big fat no, while the party adopts a zero-tolerance
policy on drug abuse (though not, presumably, on the drug that is in Communion
wine). Having teased the Jeremy Clarkson vote with promises of raising the speed
limit to 90mph, the Christian Party brushes it aside with a surprising focus on
the environment.

In terms of education, under the Christian Party children would be taught
chastity until marriage, and creationism would be restored to its rightful place
in the national curriculum. If that all sounds good to you, then you're probably
reading the wrong column. Shoo!

Conclusions

The less said about the BNP and the Christian Party, the better. One MP from
either party would be one too many, and many of their policies fall foul of  -
so absurd as to be indistinguishable from parody.

For Plaid Cymru and the SNP the results are mixed, as you would expect from
smaller parties. It's hard not to admire both for their commitment to
environmental issues, an area in which they provide glimpses of the sort of
thinking that English greens might achieve if they were more willing to engage
with real science. That said, while their plans are ambitious, it's difficult to
assess how feasible they might be.

Both parties take a very practical view of science funding, placing it at the
heart of their economic plans, something on which your mileage may vary.

Where the regional parties falter is in fringe areas - neither party seems
particularly strong on alternative medicine, and little thought has been given
to areas like stem cell research or GM crops. Plaid Cymru has an excellent
policy on drugs, while the SNP doesn't seem to go far enough, and doesn't appear
to quite grasp the root causes of the problems it wants to tackle.

In summary, while I wouldn't rush out to cast my vote for these parties on the
basis of their science policies, I don't see many problems here either.

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

From Hull to Sefton, why the M62 could decide the fate of the election;
Paul Vallely gets behind the wheel to visit the constituencies at the top of the
Conservatives' target list

BYLINE: Paul Vallely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2302 words


The road to power in Britain today does not run towards Westminster. It runs
from east to west. It starts near Hull at the seemingly solid Conservative seat
of Haltemprice and Howden, seat of the maverick Tory David Davis, and traverses
the Pennines, along the M62 motorway, to the newly created constituency of
Sefton Central in rock-solid Labour Liverpool. This is the area where Election
2010 will be won or lost.

The M62 runs through a corridor of seats which were once traditional Tory
territory but which fell to New Labour in the 1997 Blair landslide. When the
Conservative election campaign began, the Tories' chief constituency strategist,
Lord Ashcroft, decided to focus on a few score key seats which had to be won if
David Cameron were to arrive on Downing Street with even the slimmest majority.

For the past two years these marginal constituencies have been central to the
Ashcroft strategy which has funnelled millions of pounds of the cash donated by
the Conservatives' non-dom deputy chairman and others into such crucial swing
seats. For, in the end, the election will be decided, not by the broad shifts in
national opinion polls, but by the precise outcome of a series of individual
battles in key constituencies.

On an estate of neatly gardened bungalows in Bolton, Lancashire, one woman
epitomises the fight. Susan Williams is the Tory candidate in Bolton West, a
three-way marginal. During the English Civil War the town held out for the
Parliamentarian cause in a staunchly Royalist region. "They're free-thinkers in
Bolton," Mrs Williams says, to butter local egos.

But the constituency, where the arch-Blairite Ruth Kelly was the MP until she
stood down last month, has in every recent general election, bar 1979, elected
an MP of the party which went on to form the government. Bolton West is a
bellwether constituency. Where it leads the nation follows.

Mrs Williams is methodically marching up the driveways, with a single supporter.
It is not the first time Conservative canvassers have pounded these particular
streets. They are working to a battle-plan that shows which houses have already
been visited.

"The strategy is to identify potential supporters and ensure they turn out on
polling day. It's a data collection process," she says.

All along the road to power - in Selby and Ainsty, Elmet and Rothwell, Leeds
North West, Leeds North East, Pudsey, Halifax, Dewsbury, Keighley, Wakefield,
Batley and Spen, Colne Valley and Calder Valley (majority 1,367) - there are
Tories engaged in the same task. And more, up the M66 and M61, in Bury, Chorley,
Hindburn, Rossendale, Pendle, South Ribble and points west. Over the past two
weeks I have been travelling along the M62 to find out whether the Ashcroft
strategy is working.

"When I got the seat three-and-a-half years ago we were way behind in the
polls," Mrs Williams says. But then came the global financial meltdown,
recession and the MPs' expenses scandal and the polls turned upside down.
Pollsters and pundits all tipped Bolton West to turn Tory this time. Then came
the Clegg surge, and now the Tory clawback in the wake of Gordon Brown's
"bigoted woman" blunder in Rochdale. Detailed scrutiny of individual
constituencies has become the best way to predict the national outcome.

"Hello, sorry to bother you, we're just canvassing for the Conservative Party,"
she begins. "Stand well back," she tells me, half-bossily, half as if confiding
the secrets of canvassing. "Don't crowd people. They don't like you invading
their space. And don't tell them you're the candidate until they have said how
they are inclined to vote; they might say they'll vote for you out of niceness
or embarrassment."

Her colleague shouts from a neighbouring house. "There's someone here who'd like
to meet you Susan," he calls out, beckoning her over. "She's a Tory waiverer".
She isn't exactly. "I loved Margaret Thatcher," says the woman. "But then Labour
came in and gave it all away like a man with no arms." (She means the exact
opposite of what you might suppose.) She doesn't mind immigrants, but only if
they work hard. And she can't live off her pension so, at 68, she is looking for
work having just been fired by a local estate agent.

"Thing is, I can't stand Cameron, he's like Tony Blair," the woman concludes.
Susan Williams offers a few persuasive sentences and then admires the woman's
bracelet. "It's nice, isn't it. But you've got to be careful of people drifting
to Ukip," the woman says darkly, before offering what appears to be the
clinching argument for voting for Mr Cameron - that his wife seems a lot nicer
than Tony Blair's.

"She was probably always going to vote Conservative anyway," reflects Mrs
Williams as we leave. The next voter is a man aerating his lawn with a garden
fork. "I'm a don't know," he says gruffly and she moves swiftly on. "No point in
antagonising him with chatter," she says.

She tries to get away just as quickly from a hardline Labour voter who tells her
he'll be voting for Gordon Brown because he persuaded Barack Obama into a
strategy which avoided a global depression and preventing unemployment from
doubling and house repossessions from trebling.

"Ah, he saved the world," she summarises, trying to cut her losses. But before
she can escape the man launches into a major caveat on Labour's insufficiently
draconian immigration policy beginning "I'm not a racist or colour prejudiced
but..."

"He'd never vote Conservative," she says, marking her paper, as we walk back
down his garden path. "No point in wasting a lot of time on him."

Targeting is key to the Ashcroft strategy. He has come up with a sophisticated
way of targeting not just swing wards but groups of voters within them who will
decide where will be the turning point for the electoral tide in vital seats.

On she goes. We meet an old lady whose prime concern is that there is no seat in
the local bus-shelter. Then there is a man who complains that the binmen missed
out his street three weeks ago. "We'll bring it up at the council," Mrs Williams
promises. But she is always anxious to move on. Canvassing is not an act of
political persuasion, she repeats, but "a data collection process so we can get
the vote out on the day".

Everyone is friendly. "The only time people slam the door is over MPs'
expenses," she says. "You can't over-estimate how angry that's made people".

Susan Williams shows no flicker of sympathy for the men and women whose ranks
she hopes she is about to join. "Many of them behaved outrageously," she says.
She is an archetypal new Tory. There may be a picture of her in a big hat
alongside Lady Thatcher at a dinner at the Mansion House in her office. But that
is there just to reassure the faithful.

On the streets she wears blue jeans, a trendy grey cardigan, a black padded
jacket and boots that jingle jauntily. Her voice is warm and unaccented though
the pitch and rhythm of her speech occasionally reveal her to be a Geordie. Her
mother's maiden name was Kelly and, like the eponymous Ruth, is a Catholic. The
region has one of the highest densities of Catholics in the country.

She is just 43, and professes herself to be a progressive and, despite avowing a
deep admiration for David Cameron, makes nuanced noises on Europe, talking up
its benefits for British trade while bemoaning its downsides on fisheries,
finances and sovereignty. "We should stay in," she concludes.

She is also one of the few new Tories to have run something big; at 36 she was
the youngest ever leader of Trafford Borough Council, and an adviser to
Conservative groups running other councils. Reclaiming the centre ground has
been a major component in the Ashcroft strategy.

Across the Pennines in the marginal seat of Pudsey, between Bradford and Leeds,
the candidate is a new Tory too. Stuart Andrew was once a member of the
old-style Tories but, being gay, he left the party in protest at its anti-gay
Section 28 law in the 1980s. Indeed so "new" is he that, a decade ago, he even
stood for New Labour in local council elections, but he has been a Conservative
councillor for the past eight years - and one of the few on Leeds City Council
who openly takes his partner to official functions. Like Susan Williams, he too
is liked and respected by his political opponents.

But in Pudsey it looks as though the Ashcroft strategy may be beginning to
unravel. The Tories thought Pudsey was in the bag three months ago, but then two
things happened. Jamie Hanley, a local solicitor, came in as the Labour
candidate and began to work very hard. And then the Liberal Democrats got that
bounce in the polls after the first leaders' televised debate, which has been
sustained.

Stuart Andrew is sanguine about all that. "I never believed the massive Tory
lead was real before," he says. "It was a mid-term thing." Nor was he ever able
to go in for the targeting of individual wards or groups of voters which the
Ashcroft strategy identified in other marginals. "The Conservative vote is
spread right across the constituency so we can't target particular areas," he
says.

Even so, the large amounts of cash which Conservative Central Office has poured
into these key seats is visible in the massive billboard campaign which has
swamped the constituency. "I've Never Voted Tory Before..." ads have recently
been replaced with the party's Grinning Gordon posters. One has been plastered
right next door to Labour's local campaign office. In addition, where other
parties have campaign cars with posters stuck on them, the Tories have vehicles
in Conservative livery with photos on candidates done in professional paint
jobs. Their literature is glossy and centrally produced. They give out
postage-paid response cards. They pay commercial firms to deliver their
leaflets. One was recently pushed through doors with a flyer announcing "Are You
Ready to Finally Get Rich in 2010?" It claimed local people could earn £2,000 a
month from mailing out postcards.

Yet it is far from clear that all this is working. Though Stuart Andrew insists
"there's not much of a Liberal surge on the ground" he admits that "what is
striking is how many people say they have yet to make their mind up". Recently
David Lammy, Labour's minister for Higher Education, was in Pudsey to campaign
for Jamie Hanley. He made a short speech to supporters to say that Labour may
lack cash but it had plenty of people on the group to door-knock. So much so
(though Labour would not want publicly to admit this) they have run out of
voters to canvas by phone - everyone with a phone has already been called. Mr
Hanley was born and bred in the constituency and his children attended one of
the Sure Start nurseries Labour set up.

If it has been hard to detect a Liberal Democrat surge that is probably because
the vast majority of Liberal activists throughout the eight Leeds constituencies
have migrated to Leeds North West to defend the seat of their only sitting MP
Greg Mulholland who unexpectedly snatched victory from Labour in 2005. Defending
his 1,800 majority against Labour seemed the only strategy in the days before
the Clegg bounce was made manifest.

Sitting in his office just behind Asda in the Holt Park shopping centre Mr
Mulholland, whose grey-white hair makes him look older than his 39 years, is not
disposed to change that. Labour are fighting hard because they hope to take the
three seats in the simultaneous local election vote which would allow them to
regain control of the city council.

But, if his tactics are unchanged, his political language is not. "There was a
poll recently that showed 60 per cent of people want a hung parliament," he
says. "They see that the way to get change is to put no one in charge and force
the parties to work together."

Mr Mulholland can feel safe. He has assiduously cultivated his constituency for
the last five years and, again, is well-regarded by his political opponents. The
middle ground of British politics is getting ever more crowded.

This is what makes it hard to gauge the successes of the Ashcroft strategy. Such
local tactical shifts are making the election hard to read right across this key
M62 belt. "The election is different in every place," says John Battle, the
retiring Labour MP for Leeds West. "But what is clear is that there is a massive
disconnect between the chatter from the Westminster media bubble and the mood on
the ground. Indeed it often feels as if there is an undertow in opinion moving
in the opposite direction. There are all kinds of local factors."

Across the M62 in Bury North the issue is that the outgoing Labour MP David
Chaytor is facing criminal charges over his expenses claims. And in Morley and
Outwood the wild card is the BNP which had such a strong vote in the last
council elections that Labour was knocked into fourth position. A BNP councillor
was elected and the Labour MEP lost his seat to a BNP candidate in the last Euro
elections. This is Ed Balls's seat and some predict that there could be a
Portillo moment when his result is announced, though on the ground that idea
feels far-fetched.

Some in the Labour Party locally predict that the Liberal Democrat surge will
evaporate even further as polling day nears. "Nick Clegg will turn out to be the
Jedward of the contest," says Leeds councillor Neil Taggart, dryly. But others
believe that a corner has been turned.

"A third party has never before led the polls in an election campaign," says the
Leeds Liberal Democrat MP Greg Mulholland. "How that translates into seats, who
knows, but we're not going back to where we were. The genie can't be put back in
the bottle."

Whatever the national opinion polls now say the message from the ground is that,
for all parties, there is everything to play for. In these key individual
constituencies just three days from the only poll that counts the battle is far
from over.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

MAKE YOUR VOTE COUNT!;
BE SMART, BE TACTICAL

BYLINE: JAMES LYONS; JASON BEATTIE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1559 words


THE Mirror's tactical voting guide to prevent the Tories wrecking Britain won
toplevel backing yesterday.

We are urging Labour and Liberal Democrat supporters in key marginal seats to
defy their usual political instincts and form an anti-Conservative alliance.

And Cabinet minister Ed Balls became the first senior Labour figure to back our
idea.

Mr Balls, facing a strong Tory threat in his own seat of Normanton, West Yorks,
said: "I always want the Labour candidate to win.

"But I recognise there's an issue in places like North Norfolk, where my family
live and where Norman Lamb, the Lib Dem MP, is fighting the Tories in second
place. And I want to keep the Tories out."

Labour campaign chief Douglas Alexander also backed the idea of tactical voting
yesterday. Heading the list of vulnerable Tories is policy chief Oliver Letwin.

By following our plan, voters could save Britain from the savage cuts David
Cameron would launch this Friday if he wins.

So if you are a Labour or Lib Dem supporter in a seat where your party simply
can't win, VOTE FOR THE OTHER SIDE.

POLITICAL LANDSCAPE..

OUR maps show the UK by number of seats per area. So London, with 74, looks
bigger than Scotland with 59.

How do I decide: head or heart?

VERDICT by KEVIN MAGUIRE

I MET a Waitrose warehouseman in Hampshire who said he could never vote anything
except Labour.

His dad and his grandad were Labour and, said the bloke, the party's in his DNA.

But in Eastleigh, where he lives, the winner will be Lib Dem Chris Huhne or Tory
Maria Hutchings. I know who I'd back and it isn't bigmouth Hutchings, who
heckled Blair on TV at the last election.

Huhne's majority is a wafer-thin 534 over the Tory shouter with Labour marooned
in third place.

I've also encountered a few committed Lib Dems and quite a lot of true blue
Tories. Some people couldn't vote anything except the party they've backed every
election. Others will be ruled by the head not the heart and vote tactically.

I admire both and face the warehouseman's dilemma myself. I make and unmake my
mind. I may not decide where to mark my X until I reach the privacy of the
polling booth. Yet I recognise the best way to stop Cameron is to build a
progres-sive, anti-Tory alliance. In Labour seats, Lib Dems should lend their
votes to Brown. In Lib Dem seats, Labourites should back Clegg.

And wherever a Tory's first, the party second - Lab or Lib Dem - should be given
the best shot.

Remember, Labour and the Lib Dems signed up to electoral reform, the Tories did
not.

Stopping the Tories would mean we can all vote for who we really want in future
elections.

LIB DEMS VOTE LABOUR HERE

Gillingham and Rainham

Labour candidate: Paul Clark Notional

Majority: 15

Swing needed for Tory victory: 0.02%

Crawley

Lab cand: Chris Oxlade

N. Maj: 37

Swing: 0.04%

Harlow

Lab cand: Bill Rammell

N. Maj: 230

Swing: 0.29%

Croydon Central

Lab: Gerry Ryan

N. Maj: 328

Swing: 0.36%

Portsmouth North

Lab: Sarah McCarthy-Fry

N. Maj: 315

Swing: 0.38%

Battersea

Lab cand: Martin Linton

N. Maj: 332

Swing: 0.41%

Hove

Lab: Celia Barlow

N. Maj: 448

Swing: 0.5%

Milton Keynes North

Lab cand: Andrew Pakes

N. Maj: 848

Swing: 0.86%

Stroud

Lab cand: David Drew

N. Maj: 996

Swing: 0.93%

Dartford

Lab cand: John Adams

N. Maj: 860

Swing: 0.95%

South Basildon and East Thurrock

Lab cand: Angela Smith

N. Maj: 905

Swing: 1.07%

City of Chester

Lab cand: Christine Russell

N. Maj: 973

Swing: 1.1%

Cardiff North

Lab cand: Julie Morgan

N. Maj: 1,146

Swing: 1.26%

Hastings and Rye

Lab: Michael Foster

N. Maj: 1,156

Swing: 1.27%

Calder Valley

Lab cand: Stephenie Booth

N. Maj: 1,303

Swing: 1.37%

Stourbridge

Lab cand: Lynda Waltho

N. Maj: 1,280

Swing: 1.46%

Bristol NWest

Lab cand: Sam Townend

N. Maj: 2,781

Swing: 1.5%

Milton Keynes South

Lab cand: Phyllis Starkey

N. Maj: 1,497

Swing: 1.52%

Corby

Lab cand: Phil Hope

N. Maj: 1,517

Swing: 1.56%

Vale of Glamorgan

Lab cand: Alana Davies

N. Maj: 1,574

Swing: 1.68%

South Swindon

Lab cand: Anne Snelgrove

N. Maj: 1,493

Swing: 1.75%

South Dorset

Lab cand: Jim Knight

N. Maj: 1,812

Swing: 1.86%

Northampton South

Lab cand: Clyde Loakes

N. Maj: 1,445

Swing: 1.89%

High Peak Labour cand : Caitlin Bisknell

N. Maj: 1,750

Swing: 1.9%

Loughborough

Lab: Andy Reed

N. Maj: 1,816

Swing: 1.94%

Aberconwy

Lab cand: Ronald Hughes

N. Maj: 1,070

Swing: 1.96%

Birmingham Edgbaston

Lab cand: Gisela Stuart

N. Maj: 1,555

Swing: 2%

Stafford

Lab cand: David Kidney

N. Maj: 1,852

Swing: 2%

Broxtowe

Lab cand: Nick Palmer

N. Maj: 2,139

Swing: 2.22%

Burton

Lab cand: Ruth Smeeth

N. Maj: 2,132

Swing: 2.4%

Brighton Kemptown

Lab cand: Simon Burgess

N. Maj: 1,853

Swing: 2.42%

Bury North

Lab cand: Maryam Khan

N. Maj: 2,059

Swing: 2.52%

Redditch

Lab cand: Jacqui Smith

N. Maj: 2,163

Swing: 2.6%

Rugby

Lab cand: Andy King

N. Maj: 2,397

Swing: 2.6%

Pendle

Lab cand: Gordon Prentice

N. Maj: 2,180

Swing: 2.65%

Wolverhampton South West

Lab: Rob Marris

N. Maj: 2,114

Swing: 2.66%

Carmarthen W & Pembrokeshire Sth

Lab cand: Nick Ainger

N. Maj: 2,043

Swing: 2.66%

South Ribble

Lab cand: David Borrow

N. Maj: 2,528

Swing: 2.71%

Derbyshire Sth

Lab cand: Michael Edwards

N. Maj: 2,436

Swing: 2.73%

Dumfries & Galloway

Lab cand: Russell Brown

N. Maj: 2,922

Swing: 2.87%

Tamworth

Lab cand: Brian Jenkins

N. Maj: 2,569

Swing: 2.94%

Cleethorpes

Lab cand: Shona Mclsaac

N. Maj: 2,640

Swing: 3.03%

Swindon North

Lab cand: Victor Agarwal

N. Maj: 2,675

Swing: 3.12%

Westminster Nth

Lab: Karen Buck

N. Maj: 2,120

Swing: 3.3%

Worcester

Lab cand: Mike Foster

N. Maj: 3,144

Swing: 3.39%

Harrow East

Lab cand: Tony McNulty

N. Maj: 2,934

Swing: 3.44%

Great Yarmouth

Lab cand: Tony Wright

N. Maj: 3,055

Swing: 3.8%

Brigg & Goole

Lab cand: Ian Cawsey

N. Maj: 3,217

Swing: 3.92%

Bedford

Lab cand: Patrick Hall

N. Maj: 3,413

Swing: 4.02%

Stevenage

Lab: Sharon Taylor

N. Maj: 3,288

Swing: 4.03%

Eltham

Lab: Clive Efford

N. Maj: 2,904

Swing: 4.5%

VOTE LABOUR IN THREE-WAY MARGINALS

Ealing Central & Acton

Lab cand: Bassam Mahfouz

N. Lab Maj: 839

Swing for Tory win 1.08%

Swing for Lib Dem win 1.37%

Watford

Lab cand: Claire Ward

N. Lab Maj: 1,151

Swing for Tory win 1.97%

Swing for Lib Dem win 1.17%

Filton & Bradley Stoke

Lab cand: Ian Boulton N. Tory majority: 653

Swing for Labour win: 0.79%

Swing for Lib Dem win 5.51%

Edinburgh South

Lab cand: Nigel Griffiths

N. Lab Maj: 405

Swing for Tory win: 8.18%

Swing for Lib Dem win 0.47%

Ochil & Perthshire South

Lab cand: Gordon Banks

N. Lab Maj: 688

Swing for SNP win: 0.7%

Swing for Tory win: 8.43%

Leeds North West

Lab cand: Judith Blake N. LD Maj: 2,064

Swing for Labour win: 2.48%

Swing for Tory win: 5.08%

Camborne and Redruth

Lab cand: Jude Robinson N. LD Maj: 2,733

Swing for Labour win: 3.54%

Swing for Tory win: 5.13%

Colne Valley

Lab cand: Debbie Abrahams

N. Lab Maj: 1,267

Swing for Tory win: 1.26%

Swing for Lib Dem win 8.38%

Reading East

Lab cand: Anneliese Dodds N. Tory Maj: 739

Swing for Labour win: 0.86%

Swing for Lib Dem win: 9.57%

VOTE LABOUR IN THESE UNUSUAL SEATS

Barking Targeted by BNP

Lab cand: Margaret Hodge

N. Maj: 12,183

Swing for BNP win: 16.45%

Bethnal Green & BowRespect in 2005

Lab cand: Rushanara Ali. N. maj: 804

Swing for Labour win: 1.05%

Blaenau GwentIndependent in 2005

Lab cand: Nick Smith.

N. Maj: 9,121

Swing for Labour win: 12.94%

Brighton Pavillion Targeted by Greens

Lab cand: Nancy Platts

N. Maj: 5,867

Swing for Greens win: 7.24%

East HamRespect finished second in 2005

Lab cand: Stephen Timms

N. Maj: 13,649

Swing for Respect win: 16.54%

Stoke-on-Trent Central Targeted by BNP

Lab cand: Tristram Hunt

N. Maj: 9,717 Swing needed for BNP win: 22%

Wyre ForestIndependent in 2005

Lab cand: Nigel Knowles

N. Maj: 4,613

Swing for Labour win: 8.04%

1 Poplar & Limehouse George Galloway standing for Respect

Lab cand: Jim Fitzpatrick

N. Maj: 12,463 Swing needed for Respect win: 6.9%

Luton SouthThat's Life star Esther Rantzen standing as an independent.

Lab: Gavin Shuker

N. Maj: 5,698 And finally (shock! horror!) vote Tory in Buckingham...Lib Dems
and Labour not standing. UKIP's Nigel Farage challenging the Speaker. Cand: John
Bercow

N. Maj: 18,716

Swing for UKIP win: 27.3%

LABOUR VOTE LIB DEM HERE

TO STOP THE TORIES WINNING THE SEAT...

Romsey & Southampton Nth

Lib Dem cand: Sandra Gidley

N Maj: 204

Swing for Tory win 0.23%

Cheltenham

Lib Dem cand: Martin Horwood

N Maj: 316

Swing for Tory win 0.33%

Somerton & Frome

Lib Dem cand: David Heath

N Maj: 595

Swing for Tory win 1.12%

Eastleigh

Lib Dem cand: Chris Huhne

N Maj: 534

Swing for Tory win 1.2%

Westmorland and Lonsdale

Lib Dem cand: Tim Farron

N Maj: 806

Swing for Tory win 1.7%

Hereford & Herefordshire South

Lib Dem cand: Sarah Carr

N Maj: 1,089

Swing for Tory win 2.39%

Carshalton and Wallington

Lib Dem cand: Tom Brake

N Maj: 1,225

Swing for Tory win 2.93%

Taunton Deane

Lib Dem cand: Jeremy Browne

N Maj: 1,868

Swing for Tory win 3.3%

Chippenham

Lib Dem cand: Duncan Hames

N Maj: 2,183

Swing for Tory win 4.70%

Torbay

Lib Dem cand: Adrian Sanders

N Maj: 2,727

Swing for Tory win 6.01%

TO UNSEAT THE SITTING TORY...

Guildford

Lib Dem cand: Sue Doughty

N Maj: 89

Swing for Lib Dem win 0.09%

Solihull

Lib Dem cand: Lorely Burt

N Maj: 124

Swing for Lib Dem win 0.12%

Eastbourne

Lib Dem cand: Stephen Lloyd

N Maj: 672

Swing for Lib Dem win 0.70%

Weston-Super-Mare

Lib Dem cand: Mike Bell

N Maj: 2,088

Swing for Lib Dem win 2.13%

Ludlow

Lib Dem cand: Heather Kidd

N Maj: 2,027

Swing for Lib Dem win 2.18%

Dorset West

Lib Dem cand: Ros Kayes

N Maj: 2,461

Swing for Lib Dem win 2.31%

Meon Valley

Lib Dem cand: Liz Leffman

N Maj: 2,378

Swing for Lib Dem win 2.45%

Devon Central

Lib Dem cand: Philip Hutty

N Maj: 2,338

Swing for LD win 2.49%

Devon West and Torridge

Lib Dem cand Adam Symons

N Maj: 2,732

Swing for LD win 2.68%

Wells

Lib Dem cand: Tessa Munt

N Maj: 3,040

Swing for Lib Dem win 2.87%

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 4, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Women and the issues ignored in a British election campaign;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 799 words


Sir, The election campaign has infuriated many women. The debate has been
between men. Politicians and commentators discussing the issues, the strategy
and the tactics are almost always men. The television debates, which, we are
told, will "decide the election", have been a discussion between and moderated
by men.

Women are more than half the population. We are involved in every sector of the
economy and national life. But in the main debates of this election we are
invisible. We still suffer discrimination in this country as employees, as
parents, as pensioners and as politicians. The political leaders have given no
serious attention during the campaign to the specific issues women face. They
have all demonstrated that they do not represent women.

The message is very clear and ominous. If you are a woman, you can forget a
position in the inner circles of any of the main political parties in Britain.
Even if you are a senior female politician with years of experience, you will be
pushed aside in favour of US-style political wives.

All the main political parties have made it clear by their actions in this
campaign that they regard women as second-class citizens. It is shameful that
the UK is 61st in the world table of women's representation in Parliament.

The party leaders should say now what they will do to end the discrimination
against women that has been a defining feature of their campaigns.

kate jenkins fiona booth Chief Executive, Hansard Society ceri goddard Chief
Executive, Fawcett Society pamela goldberg Chief Executive, Breast Cancer
Campaign barbara hosking lisa forrell Director, One Aldwych Plus 22 other
signatories. For a full list of signatories go to timesonline.co.uk/letters Sir,
I think all three main parties have insulted our intelligence in this campaign
by not being honest with the electorate about the severe cuts that will have to
be made after the election. It would be best, therefore, for a new government to
have the consent of at least 50 per cent of voters to enable them to implement
cuts without the risk of civil unrest.

Under the first-past-the-post system, we have a Labour government elected by a
minority of voters.

Coalition government served us well under Churchill and Atlee and a government
of whatever party with a slim majority would not be a good thing for the country
at this time of economic danger. If the electorate wants a hung/balanced
Parliament, then in a democracy they should have a balanced Parliament
consisting of more than one party to help us to cope with the difficult times
ahead.

valerie crews Beckenham, Kent Sir, How depressing, disappointing and disgraceful
that not one of our prime ministerial hopefuls has had the moral fibre to defend
immigration, but have all chosen to ride the bandwagon.

The Huguenots of France in the 17th century and the Jews of Eastern Europe in
the 19th, fleeing persecution and reviled when they arrived; the Jamaicans and
Trinidadians whom we begged to come in the 1950s to fill the manpower shortage
and who faced the vilest bigotry; the Ugandan Asians fleeing the mad Idi Amin:
the list is endless of incomers who, a generation on, both retain a communal
identity and contribute hugely to society.

I have had experience of A&E with my elderly parents of late. Without the
immigrants from Africa, Central Europe, Asia, South America and the Antipodes
there would not have been an A&E to care for them.

Sure, we need better controls over the crooks and gangmasters who exploit the
unwary, work them to death and prostitute young women, but please gentlemen,
stop trying to buy off BNP and UKIP supporters by trumping their ace.

barry hyman Bushey Heath, Herts Sir, On Thursday, as well as having a national
election, in London and other regions we will also have local elections. The
parties and their supporters have understandably put all their energies into
campaigning for the general election, and the media have also concentrated
solely on reporting it. This means that when I get my local election voting
paper I will have a list of names and party allegiances and no other information
whatsoever on which to base my vote.

The national election clearly out-trumps the local election when it comes to the
impact on my life and future, but that is not to say that the local elections
are without consequence. Whoever wins my local election will be in power and
spending my money for four years, and it would nice to give them a little
scrutiny. I want to make sure that my vote does not accidentally go to a
single-issue candidate or someone with unpleasant instincts.

Conflating local and national elections has obvious economic and administrative
efficiencies, but it also carries a democratic deficit. In future the two should
be kept very separate. nigel corbett Bromley, Kent

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tony Blair with some of Labour's 102 female MPs after the 1997 general
election
AP PHOTO / LYNNE SLADKY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

ANDREW PIERCE

LENGTH: 767 words


THE STORIES THE SPIN DOCTORS DON'T WANT YOU TO READ

WHY HAS TARZAN DISAPPEARED INTO THE JUNGLE?

LORD Heseltine, the former Tory deputy Prime Minister, has been conspicuously
absent from the election trail. Even though he is now 77, he can still dish it
out as well -- if not better -- than most of the unknowns on the Tory front
bench.

But 'Tarzan' Hezza, who is David Cameron's adviser on cities, upset the ruling
elite by saying the unsayable at a meeting of party activists in February, when
he stated that Cameron would fall short of winning an overall majority.

Even though his remarks may prove to be remarkably prescient, he has not been
seen or heard of ever since. But is there another reason for his disappearance?
Is his loyalty being stretched to the limit by his party's support for the
proposed high-speed rail link from London to Birmingham?

The railway line will devour thousands of acres of green and pleasant land. But
it also runs through the safe-as-houses Tory constituency of South
Northamptonshire where sitting MP Tim Boswell is standing down in favour of one
of Dave's Dollys, Andrea Leadsom.

The proposed link will affect just about every householder in the constituency
and the squires in the shires are in uproar at the prospect of 250mph trains
roaring through their gardens every 15 minutes. The protesters are hoping to
recruit their best known local grandees to their cause.

Their targets? Lord Heseltine and his Tenford Estate, with its magnificent
Palladian mansion; and his near neighbour, the Earl Spencer, brother of Princess
Diana. The proposed route is perilously close to Hezza's own property and his
much-loved arboretum.

CAN it get any worse? Only 8 per cent of people would trust Gordon Brown to take
a penalty for them in the World Cup Final, reports a poll for Paddy Power.

THE TROUBLE WITH OSBORNE

THE Tories' decision to withdraw George Osborne from BBC's Question Time after
the final TV debate in Birmingham nearly blew up spectacularly in their own
faces.

The Shadow Chancellor was quietly pulled at the start of last week and Liam Fox,
the Shadow Defence Secretary, was put up instead. The BBC refused to accept the
more junior Fox and actually threatened to give the Tories an empty chair on the
programme. The Beeb said the only replacement they would accept was Ken Clarke,
the Shadow Business Secretary. They backed down only hours before the broadcast.

Osborne was in Birmingham for the leaders' debate, so could easily have done the
programme. This has all fuelled speculation that he is being kept off the
airwaves because the voters don't seem to like him.

DARLING'S REALLY OUT OF THE LOOP

GORDON BROWN insists the recovery will be threatened if 66 billion is taken out
of the economy by the Tories' spending cuts. Clearly no one has told Chancellor
Alistair Darling.

A transcript arrives on my desk of an exchange between the BBC's excellent
economics editor Stephanie Flanders and the Chancellor. She said: 'At the end of
2008, you announced cuts of 65 billion for this financial year. You said it was
tough but necessary. Isn't that what the Conservatives are saying?'

To which Darling replied: 'Three years ago, we announced a programme to take 6
30 billion out of (pause) through efficiencies, doing things better. The money
is recycled into the economy.

'I then increased that by a further 65 billion because I do think -- and this is
an important argument between the three of us -- if you can be more efficient,
you should be more efficient.'

Quite. The Tories couldn't make their argument better themselves.

OH LORD!

IT'S reassuring to know that Lord Pearson, the leader of the anti-EU UKIP, has
such a strong grip on his party. 'The South West Regional Committee has once
again endorsed the decision to ignore Lord Pearson,' says UKIP in the West
Country. They're obviously taking great delight in ignoring their own leader's
plea not to run against Eurosceptic Tories.

IS THIS a sign of the times as Brown goes looking for votes in a Newcastle
shopping centre?

GORDON'S NO POSTER BOY

ANOTHER day, another parodied election poster. But this boy would not be alone
in not wanting to be called Gordon. Since Labour came to power, Gordon has never
been in the top 100 of names chosen for newborns in the PM's native Scotland.

GORDON BROWN isn't just avoiding ordinary voters on the campaign trail. He's
being berated in his own constituency for refusing to attend any of the hustings
debate invitations he has had.

Alex Rowley, his agent, has received eight hustings invitations but has refused
them all. Surely the people attending can't all be bigots, can they?

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                               May 3, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fewer people in Britain bother to vote than in Sri Lanka or Malawi;
Election2010

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 381 words


SIR - Britain can trace a long and rich history of electoral experience. But
familiarity can breed, if not contempt, then certainly apathy. Parliaments
around the world with roots in Westminster are now inspiring more people to
participate than the source from which they came.

At the last UK election in 2005, the turnout was 61 per cent. Compare that with
74 per cent in Sri Lanka this year, or 75 per cent in Malawi in 2009.

Foremost among the lessons of the Westminster legacy is that the newest
democracies can be the keenest; and that those who have come nearest to losing
democracy are the ones most determined to keep it.

The fact that power can change hands without violence can dull governments and
voters to the importance of a system of decision-making that transcends
individuals and political parties.

There was serious violence after the Kenyan elections in December 2007. The
country has recognised that solutions reside in strengthening - rather than
weakening - the power of the ballot box and of democratic culture.

In a highly charged election in Ghana in 2008 - with some 20,000 votes
separating the two parties at the final count - power still changed hands
peacefully.

In 2008, too, elections in the Maldives saw the opposition candidate come
peacefully to power in only the second multi-party elections after 30 years of
one-party government.

The democratic journey continues: we can all learn from each other. But for
democracy to be successful and sustainable, people must get out and vote.
Kamalesh Sharma Commonwealth Secretary-General London SW1 SIR - The election
will pass voters by in the constituency of Thirsk and Malton. The death of the
Ukip candidate means they will now vote on May 27.

A close result on the May 6 could give the voters of Thirsk and Malton a very
different level of power. John Hustler Malton, North Yorkshire SIR - I note that
the residents of Ambridge are not having to endure the general election. Perhaps
- as with the snow - theirs will be later on.

Carole Cronin Chelmsford, Essex SIR - I have just returned from the supermarket.
A fellow shopper tried to return a bag of "chip or mash" potatoes as it was not
clear if she could also boil them.

We are all doomed, whatever happens on May 6. Philip Armstrong Bodle Street
Green, East Sussex

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

Latest poll finds Tories still short of a majority

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 510 words


David Cameron has failed so far to persuade voters to give him a majority,
according to a Guardian/ICM poll published today. The race remains a tight,
three-way contest, with all three main parties just five points apart.

The poll puts the Conservatives on 33%, the same as last week's Guardian/ICM
poll and down three on a poll published yesterday in the Sunday Telegraph from
the same firm.

Labour is on 28%, unchanged from the Guardian poll last week and down one point
on yesterday's ICM poll. The Liberal Democrats are also on 28%, down two on last
week but up one on yesterday.

But voters are nonetheless ready for a change of direction, with 70% agreeing
with the sentiment "time for a change", against just 25% who say continuity is
most important and want to stick with Labour.

Many are also likely to vote: 68% of those polled said they were certain to cast
a ballot on Thursday, and a further 9% said it was likely, which if it happens
could see turnout rise well above the 61% recorded in 2005.

The poll was carried out over the bank holiday weekend, a factor which in the
past has reduced the accuracy of some surveys.

Labour's share of 28% is the same as it achieved in the 1983 election, while
Conservative support of 33% is unchanged from 2005.

The results confirm other surveys suggesting the Liberal Democrats have slipped
back, although they remain well ahead of their level of support before the TV
debates.

Backing for other smaller parties is 12%, up four points on the weekend poll,
mostly a gain for Ukip at the Conservative party's expense. The Tories retain a
one-point lead as the party best placed to manage the economy: David Cameron and
George Osborne are picked by 30%, with Brown and Alistair Darling close behind
on 29%. The Lib Dem team of Nick Clegg and Vince Cable are on 19%.

Clegg remains ahead of Cameron, 33% to 30%, as the party leader who is
campaigning best. But his lead over Cameron has slipped from nine points to
three since last week. Brown's rating is unchanged on 17%, apparently unaffected
by his comments in Rochdale.

Cameron has a 10-point lead over Brown, 35% to 25% as the leader most likely to
move Britain in the right direction, and unchanged on last week.

Clegg's rating has slipped two points from 26% to 24%. But he continues to have
the advantage as the leader who seems least affected by spin: while 38% say this
of Cameron (down six points on last week) only 17% say so of Clegg (unchanged).
Brown's score is 27% (up three).

As a result, while 64% think Clegg is being honest with voters about his
policies - including a majority of Conservative and Labour supporters - only 53%
see Cameron as honest about them, and 45% Brown.

But Cameron leads as the most competent potential prime minister. He scores 38%,
which is 12 points ahead of Brown on 26%, followed by Clegg on 19%.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,026 adults aged 18+, between 30
April and 2 May 2010

Captions:

According to the Guardian/ICM poll, support for the Lib Dems has waned, but
still only five points separate the three main parties

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

Cardiff North: One-line manifesto

BYLINE: Hannah Waldramguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 332 words

ABSTRACT

We asked all the candidates in Cardiff North to tell us their manifesto in 50
words

FULL TEXT

We asked all the parliamentary candidates in Cardiff to sum up their manifesto
in 50 words.

You can find everything you need to know about the  See how the candidates
responded below.

, Liberal Democrat"A cycle of red-blue, blue-red government has got us into the
current economic and political crisis. The Liberal Democrats would provide a
fresh start, creating a fair society and a different and better politics;
reforming our economy so that everyone gets a fair deal; and fixing our rotten
political system."

, UKIP1/ Zero tolerance on crime and anti social behaviour, put police back on
the beat.2/ Maintain and protect our public services, schools hospitals, and
public transport.3/ Withdrawal from europe saving the british taxpayer 45
million pounds a day.4/ Better immigration controls, skilled migration not mass
immigration.

, Labour"I think that MPs are here to make life better for people and if
re-elected, I will continue to be a hard working, independent-minded and caring
MP, who not only stands up for Cardiff North in Westminster, but who also
campaigns locally and runs a local office whose door is always open to
constituents with problems."

, Christian Party"I will work for the good of our nation by seeking to preserve
religious liberty, to strengthen the institution of marriage and to promote the
sanctity of life. I will encourage the work ethic, thrift, responsibility,
oppose gambling and excessive drinking, and give help to the poor and
vulnerable."

, Green Party"If elected, I will work towards helping us all to reduce our
country's consumption of the earth's limited resources to a fair level, so that
we aren't depriving millions of our fellow human beings and our decendents of a
reasonable standard of living."

Plaid Cymru candidate  did not respond.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

Cardiff Central: One-line manifesto

BYLINE: Hannah Waldramguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 371 words

ABSTRACT

We asked all the candidates in Cardiff Central to tell us their manifesto in 50
words

FULL TEXT

We asked all the parliamentary candidates in to sum up their manifesto in 50
words. See how they responded below.

, Monster Raving Loony Party"Contrary to the view presented in the media, this
election is not to elect a government; but to elect someone to represent you and
your community. If you want a representative free from the shackles of cartel
politics, free to practise common sense, the sane option is to vote Loony."

, Green Party"Greens support people rather than big business. Instead of cutting
and throwing people on the dole we want to invest in a million green jobs to get
out of recession and tackle climate change. Vote Green and protect public
services, scrap top-up fees and for decent pensions."

, Independent"I am standing for Election because there are a billion people
dying of poverty in the world's poorest countries and we can afford to help
them, so we should. This time round, send a clear message to the politicians,
vote for something worth voting for - vote for the world's poor."

, Labour· Raise family living standards by increasing child tax credits· Secure
the recovery with 1 million new skilled green jobs· Protect frontline services
for frail and vulnerable people· Strengthen fairness with a Robin Hood Tax on
banks· Reform Parliament and renew public service

, Plaid Cymru"I stand for Plaid because I trust them. We speak for the unfairly
treated people living in Wales. We have always been let down and exploited by
the so called 'major' parties and we know that we can do better as we are
demonstrating now in the Assembly. Vote Plaid."

, Liberal Democrat "The Liberal Democrats want to make Britain fairer - by
raising the income tax allowance to £10,000 making 30,000 people in Cardiff
Central better off; investing in green jobs for the future; scrapping tuition
fees; giving more money to disadvantaged pupils, and cleaning up politics so we
can start rebuilding trust."

(Conservative),  (Trade Unionist and Socialist Coalition) and  (UKIP) did not
respond.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

Cardiff West: One-line manifesto

BYLINE: Hannah Waldramguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 268 words

ABSTRACT

We asked all the candidates in Cardiff West to tell us their manifesto in 50
words

FULL TEXT

We asked all the parliamentary candidates in  to sum up their manifesto in 50
words. See how they responded below.

, Labour"I will always listen to your views and put Cardiff West first in the
fight for new jobs, better public services and a future fair for all. I will
work hard for a fair deal for pensioners, fight for opportunities for young
people and will always be glad to work with you on improving our community."

, Liberal Democrat"Our priority is fairness. Fair taxes: £700 back in the
pockets of 800,000 people in Wales. A Fair start for children: a chance to
fulfil their potential. A Fair and sustainable economy that creates jobs. Fair,
transparent and more local politics: ensuring corrupt MPs can be sacked by their
voters."

, Plaid Cymru*Tackling the financial deficit and reforming the banks*Fair
Funding formula for Wales*Boosting the Welsh economy*A Living Pension*A new
environmental action plan*Strengthening the powers of the National Assembly*An
end to the war in Afghanistan: Time To Go

, Conservative"Angela believes in cutting bureaucracy and freeing-up individual
endeavour in both business and the public sector. She supports the eradication
of abuses of the benefits system. Angela agrees with policies to support family
values, which she believes will help to solve many of the social problems facing
our country today."

from the Green Party and  from UKIP did not respond.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 3, 2010 Monday

Cardiff South and Penarth: One-line manifesto

BYLINE: Hannah Waldramguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 440 words

ABSTRACT

We asked all the candidates in Cardiff South and Penarth to tell us their
manifesto in 50 words

FULL TEXT

We asked all the parliamentary candidates in  to sum up their manifesto in 50
words. See how they responded below.

, Plaid Cymru"Bringing values back into politics and making politics work for
constituents: Addressing the Financial crisis, Getting a fair deal for Wales,
Scrapping Trident, pushing for 'Robin Hood tax', developing an ethical foreign
policy, making work pay, speaking up for the weakest members of society and
taking real action on the green agenda."

, Communist party"Tax the super-rich and the mega-profits of the oil, gas,
electricity, banking, retail and pharamceutical monopolies, invest more in
public services and manufacturing, take the energy, public transport and
financial sectors fully into public ownership, scrap Britain's US-controlled
nuclear weapons and bring the troops home from Afghanistan."

, Liberal Democrat"My neighbours want change. After decades of Labour
representation we need a fresh start but the Tories have no plans for our
families. I've got a record of fighting for local people. As one of Nick Clegg's
team, I will be a strong, new voice for our area."

, Conservative"A fresh voice for our area that is committed to working hard on
behalf of all of our communities, listening to people, cleaning up politics and
restoring trust in democracy. I've worked in both the public and private sectors
and understand the value of both. We need to build a society where people are as
aware of their responsibilities as they are of their rights."

, Labour"I'll work for you and for jobs and training for young people, safety on
the internet, co-operation, volunteering, the voluntary Sector, even lower crime
levels, a National Care Scheme, healthcare, education, animal welfare, and with
our AM, Lorraine Barrett, I'll keep promises - again."

, Green Party"I would be a full-time MP, working for the people of Cardiff and
Penarth on issues like improving public transport and saving the NHS from
privatisation. I would take no other paid employment; would the other candidates
match this pledge? Vote Green if you want an MP working for you!"

, UKIP"Straight forward politics from straight forward politicians. No more
point scoring, no more sleaze, no more duck houses, no more of the same. Yes to
referendums on all major issues. Yes to politicians who work for the local
people. Yes to UKIP."

(Christian Party) and  (Independent) did not respond.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               May 3, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

The candidates hoping to go straight from the classroom to Commons;
A change in the law means that teenagers can now stand for Parliament. But will
voters take a 19-year-old seriously?

BYLINE: Toby Green

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1745 words


Chris Cassidy is not the only teenager out on the streets of Northern Moor,
south Manchester, on a sunny Friday lunchtime, but he is the only one dressed in
a suit and clutching leaflets declaring "Control our borders" and "Stop paying
the EU £40m a day".

Crime and unemployment are big concerns for residents of the estates, portrayed
unfavourably last year in the documentary, The Duchess on the Estate. And Mr
Cassidy believes he can address their problems.

At just 19, he is among the youngest of the ambitious hopefuls taking advantage
of the change in the law in 2006 which lowered the minimum age to be an MP, from
21 to 18. Ukip's youngest candidate, Mr Cassidy is trying to persuade the people
of Wythenshawe and Sale East that he can represent them in Parliament.

Inspired by a Ukip election broadcast in 2005, he became a member aged 16 and
decided to go a step further when he realised that no other candidate from the
party would be standing in the area. "When I found out the rules had changed so
you can be 18 and not 21 to stand, I thought, 'There is my chance'," he says.
"No one else is going to do it, so let's go and represent Ukip and try to make a
difference."

For local people, it is a refreshing change. "Political engagement among the
youngsters around here is absolutely zero," says Bobby Azam, 29, who works in
his family's shop beneath Mr Cassidy's campaign office. "They don't see any
change coming for them, they've got no aspirations, they've got no anything, to
be honest." Mr Azam is not planning on voting for Ukip (he tells Mr Cassidy
their policies are "slightly - how do I put it without offending you? -
fluctuating at the moment"), but Danny Peacock is. The 34-year-old owns a cafe a
few doors down, and says the fact that Mr Cassidy is local is a big advantage,
making it easier to talk to him. "He's always been there to help and he's always
gone out of his way to help out," he says. "It's being able to have a direct
conversation and getting answers back that you want to hear, so it's certainly a
lot better."

Mr Cassidy believes Ukip "has always been regarded by a lot of people in the
media as a right-wing party full of old Tories", but feels his age is important.
"I am trying to push the image that no matter who you are, what age you are,
what you believe in and what your background is, Ukip can really attract you."

Experience, or rather a lack of it, is the constant criticism levelled at young
politicians. How can someone such as Mr Cassidy, not long out of school, have
enough of it to become an effective MP? "A few people mention age, but I do have
a standard response," he says, "which is that you don't need to have a degree in
politics, you don't need to have 30 years in the public sector or working for a
consultancy firm, as long as you believe in working for the local people,
working for the constituency and doing the right thing."

Another candidate who hopes her age will not count against her is Emily Benn. A
member of the political dynasty - Tony is her grandfather and Hilary her uncle,
and her mother, Nita Clarke, advised Tony Blair in No 10 for six years - she has
campaigned for Labour since the 1992 election ("not that I remember it") and
applied to become the Labour candidate for East Worthing and Shoreham at just
17.

Ms Benn is now 20 and, out campaigning with her during a local market in
Shoreham-by-Sea, West Sussex, potential voters seem to be more preoccupied with
her family connections than her age, although her youthfulness does not pass
entirely without comment. "Oh, I do feel old," one pensioner says with a laugh,
when Ms Benn tells her that Tony is her grandfather rather than her father.
"Cameron for me is too young," the woman goes on, before realising her mistake.
"Sorry, you're younger than Cameron."

Ms Benn believes that as the election draws nearer, her age has become less of
an issue with voters. "I think people realise the situation is incredibly
serious," she says. "We are at a crucial point of history about where our
country is going to go, and my age has actually got nothing to do with that
really."

But not every resident of Shoreham-by-Sea agrees. "I'd probably lean towards
Labour, but the reason I'd lean towards Labour is because I think that
experience is good given that we are in a difficult situation," says James
Foottit, 31, who is walking through the town as the market draws to a close.
"That wouldn't really fall true for Emily."

Young candidates cannot take the support of their peers for granted either. In
2005 only an estimated one in three of registered voters aged 18 to 24 voted in
the general election, and the small proportion who do get actively involved in
politics risk being stereotyped as (for want of a more polite word) abnormal.

One trying to change this perception is 25-year-old Michelle Donelan, a
candidate for Wentworth and Dearne and a member of the national executive of
Conservative Future, the Conservative Party's youth movement. " 'Tory Boy' is
not in existence any more," she says, referring to Harry Enfield's comic
creation. "Obviously, you get your peers who think it [young people in politics]
is strange, but given the present climate more young people are talking about
issues, they're talking about the economy, because they are finding it hard to
get jobs after university."

Yet, with the batch of MPs elected in 2005 having an average age of just over 50
and only three being under 30 at the time, it is understandable why young people
would be dissuaded from getting involved. And until they do, legislation that
affects the lives of young people - on issues such as tuition fees and drugs -
will continue to be passed by MPs with little or no first-hand experience of
what they are discussing, something which is true even for some of the younger
MPs. "I actually had very different experiences from younger people today," says
the Liberal Democrats' Jo Swinson, who, until the election of Chloe Smith for
the Conservatives in Norwich North last year, was the youngest MP. "I didn't
have to pay tuition fees, for example; they came in the year after I went to
university. I read about the stories of 'meow meow' [mephedrone] and that kind
of stuff, and I think 'I haven't even heard of that'."

Now 30, Ms Swinson says she has faced a certain amount of ageism, not only when
she was going for selection but also after election. "It is one of these types
of discrimination that many people still feel is acceptable, unfortunately," she
says. "It is also something I have experienced in the House, in a way that
people make comments about your age that they would never dare make about
somebody's gender or race."

In truth, Mr Cassidy and Ms Benn are most unlikely to be elected this time,
given the large majorities they must overturn, but both hope it will be the
first step to successful political careers. Ukip's Mr Cassidy doesn't see
waiting until he is older as an option. "I can stand back and say 'Oh well I'll
stand in 20 years', but the country is falling apart now," he says. "The EU is
basically taking over all the member states in terms of legislation, and I need
to stand now to try to make a difference. There is no point in me trying to get
a good career if there isn't going to be a country at the end of it."

THE YOUNG

Emily Benn, 20

Labour

East Worthing and Shoreham (held by the Conservatives, 8,183 votes ahead of
Labour in 2005)

Just 17 when she applied to become a candidate, to be selected actually came as
something of a shock to Ms Benn. "I thought it would be good experience to
apply," she says, "and then I'd never hear from them again and I would go on
with my A-Levels. But no, they had other ideas". Running her campaign whilst
studying for a history degree at Oxford, she says: "I want to have the
university experience, but this is the biggest responsibility of my life so this
is my priority."

Matthew Butcher, 22

Green Party

Nottingham South (held by Labour, no Green candidate in 2005)

Became involved in politics aged 14, he says, when Labour "was making the
disastrous decision to go to war with Iraq". The Nottingham University geography
graduate says he is standing because he believes "this country needs something
new". He says: "I am fully aware that I haven't got quite the same experience as
some other candidates but I think I have attributes to offer that others can't."

Luke Wilkins, 18

independent

Erewash (held by Labour)

Mr Wilkins, 18 at the end of March, has put his wages from working at McDonald's
towards his campaign. He decided to run as an independent so he is "not tied
down by any of the big political parties, and I can stand for Joe Average".
Active in youth politics, and a student at Derby College's Joseph Wright Centre,
he says his age "probably will put some voters off, but hopefully people can see
past that".

Ruaraidh Dobson, 20

Liberal Democrats

Paisley and Renfrewshire North (held by Labour, 11,233 votes ahead of the
Liberal Democrats in 2005)

The microbiology student at Glasgow University says he has always been "a
political nerd" and became interested in the Liberal Democrats in their last
leadership contest. "Seeking election was something I wanted to do," he says. "I
thought it would be a really interesting experience." He says "getting young
people involved in politics is always difficult".

Nick Varley, 20

Conservatives

City of Durham (held by Labour, who finished 16,749 votes ahead of the
Conservatives in 2005)

A law student at Hull University, Mr Varley grew up in Durham. He says: "I am
just as bothered about creating a good tax environment to create employment as I
am about climate change and things like that." He claims no one told him he
doesn't have the life experience to become an MP, but "whether that's because in
Durham people are terribly polite I'm not sure." He adds: "If you've got the
judgement, and the ability to get across your judgement, you are good enough to
be an MP."

Chris Cassidy, 19

Ukip

Wythenshawe and Sale East (held by Labour, who finished 17,758 votes ahead of
the Ukip candidate in 2005)

Inspired to join Ukip because of its anti-EU policies, Mr Cassidy found at
school (Xaverian Sixth Form College) that not everyone shared his interests. "In
high school, it was very funny because people were like, 'You should be out
drinking and getting wasted'," he says. "They didn't like the idea that I was
into politics." He is also a leading member of Ukip's youth wing, Young
Independence, and works for Paul Nuttall MEP.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                               May 3, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

All to play for in virility contest to win heart of Middle England;
Rivals talk of surprise results amid voting swings, Sam Coates reports

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 2353 words


If Labour is truly facing electoral Armageddon this week, Gordon Brown could
know as early as 11.30pm on polling night. While early results on previous
general election nights have tended to show Labour MPs returned to Labour
heartlands, the Tories are starting to whisper that Sunderland Central - a North
East Labour bastion surrounded by 20 others of the same hue - could be
different.

With the Labour turnout draining away, and the Tories carrying five of this new
constituency's nine wards at the last council elections, senior figures are
saying that a win is now an outside possibility. William Hague, who is running
the Tories' northern campaign, visited on Friday. Such a result, or even a
near-miss, would be a devastating early indicator of Labour's performance
nationally.

The idea that the Tories are now even considering Sunderland Central - 224 on
the target list and requiring a swing of 12 per cent - is testament to the way
the electoral landscape has changed in this race, largely through factors beyond
their control.

The Lib Dem surge, along with claims by the Tories and Lib Dems that the Labour
vote is going into freefall, has opened up many more possibilities for both
opposition parties.

"There are huge numbers of Labour to Lib Dem switchers, which gives us an
advantage in seats you wouldn't expect and we hope to exploit [that]," said one
Tory source.

They say the changes mean that up to four seats may be in play in the North
East, traditionally a no-go area for the Tories. In addition to Sunderland
Central, they are Tynemouth, a longstanding target needing a 6 per cent swing to
the Tories, Stockton South, needing 7 per cent, and Middlesbrough South, a 9 per
cent swing.

Such a rosy picture in parts of the North is balanced by a more difficult
spectre further south. Insiders admit they are struggling in southwest London
seats such as Richmond and South Coast seats such as Bournemouth, Poole and
Eastbourne. The UKIP has even swung behind Eurosceptic Tory candidates
struggling in some target seats, including Wells, Somerton and Frome, and
Taunton Deane.

Such uncertainty means there are huge dividends for all three party leaders now
engaged in the most important virility contest of their lives. Indeed when Mr
Brown leaves Downing Street tomorrow, he may not return until he faces the
prospect of the removal men on Thursday.

Today Mr Brown will travel to the East Coast, while Mr Cameron visits the North
West for the morning, returning to London at lunchtime. Mr Clegg will
concentrate on London, giving interviews to LBC, GMTV and Talk Sport before
travelling up the west coast as far as Scotland tomorrow. He has organised town
hallstyle meetings with voters every evening before polling day.

The Lib Dems are hoping that Labour's difficulties will give them the lion's
share of the gains on Thursday.

Unexpected wins in the North could include Newcastle North and Redcar, which
Nick Clegg visited yesterday, despite Labour's 12,116 majority over the Lib
Dems. Farther south, the party believes seats such as Wells and Torridge and
West Devon are in play, with even the possibility of success in Dorset West -
the seat held by Oliver Letwin, the Tory policy chief.

"I think we are on course for 80-100 seats," said one campaign insider.

However, the Lib Dems have a "secret list" of potential winning seats that Mr
Clegg will not visit on his campaign so that the incumbents are unaware they are
being targeted. This is based on the party's 2005 experience in Solihull, where
they managed to win the seat from the Tories by campaigning below the radar.

The three leaders will gather in one place for the last time today, at a London
hustings organised by London Citizens, a faith-based coalition which campaigns
for society's neediest people. However, each leader will disappear before the
next takes the stage.

Back at base, each party headquarters is planning to flood marginal seats with
literature. The Tories are planning to deliver a million newspaperstyle
leaflets, headed "The Contract". Unlike the Contract sent out by e-mail on
Friday, this tells voters that immigration, alongside the NHS and the economy,
are the main Tory concerns.

Labour has sent out one million magazine-style versions of the manifestos to
voters in marginal seats, which provide a "more readable" guide to its policies.
The party hopes to deliver 7 million leaflets by polling day, and is planning to
text millions of voters on election day itself. In addition, the party says
150,000 have read the full document online, compared with 8,000 who bought it
before the 2005 election. The party's final party election broadcast will star
the former Eastenders star, Ross Kemp, explaining why the 60 seconds it takes to
vote are crucial. Party strategists acknowledge they have all but given up on
traditional newspaper coverage, after most of the media endorsed Mr Brown's
opponents.

The Lib Dems' main message will suggest that Labour is out of ideas and that the
race is between them and the Tories. Campaign insiders acknowledge that the real
battle is with Labour over who will get the higher vote share, insisting that
coming second "is still a real possibility" despite a slight tightening of some
polls.

Online

Follow our blog from the campaign trail

timesonline.co.uk/blog10

As the election goes into its last few days at the end of a roller-coaster
campaign, Angus Macleod, Scottish Political Editor of The Times, looks at the
fallout in Scotland's key marginal seats, and presents his guide to the likely
outcome

Ochil and South Perthshire

This is the seat the SNP desperately wants to win and on paper it should. But
Labour's Gordon Banks is a shrewd organiser on the ground and the other parties
think he will hold on

Renfrewshire East

If The Tories could take the scalp of Jim Murphy, the Scottish Secretary, here
it would be enormous compensation for another bad night elsewhere in Scotland.
But they're relying now on a good Lib Dem performance to erode Labour support
and the wily Murphy may have just enough of a majority to survive  Edinburgh
South

It started as a genuine three-way contest but Labour appears to have given up on
it and the Conservatives are beginning to discount it. It will now be a shock if
the Lib Dems don't take it

Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale & Tweeddale

The Tories are sweating over this one, their only seat currently in Scotland.
Labour hase been pouring resources into it but the Labour effort could be undone
by a rise in support for the Lib Dems, allowing David Mundell to hold on

Aberdeen South

The rise of Nick Clegg made this look as if it was going the way of Edinburgh
South. But even the Lib Dems are now admitting that Labour incumbent Anne Begg
is proving hard to beat

Edinburgh North & Leith

In many ways a surprise packet of the Scottish campaign. Labour appears to have
been caught flat-footed by the Lib Dem surge and it is now seriously worried.
The Libs Dems are ultraoptimistic

Dumfries & Galloway

The Tories' Peter Duncan has been nursing this seat for years and, if he doesn't
win, there will be wall-to-wall local Tory despair. Labour's Russell Brown is a
doughty fighter but Labour doesn't sound confident

Glasgow East

The SNP by-election win two years ago here rocked Scottish politics. But even
the Nationalists agree they'll probably lose it this time and it will be a case
of revenge for Labour's Margaret Curran

Dundee West

SNP already holds Dundee East so would love to complete the double in this city.
Labour has been desperately trying to shore up Jim McGovern and sounds more
positive than ity did at the start of the campaign

Stirling

Could this be the shock of the campaign. Labour says it is not worried despite
having to draft in Gordon Brown this week. But once again a lot will depend on
whether the Lib Dems prosper. The Tories have to settle for denting Anne
McGuire's majority

Perth & Perthshire North

The Tories were very optimistic when campaign hostilities began but not so cocky
now after a gaffe-strewn campaign from their candidate. But the SNP's Pete
Wishart can't relax

Dunfermline & Fife West

A seat won spectacularly in a by-election by the Lib Dems in 2006. But it is
natural Labour territory and the feeling is Labour might just do enough to take
it back from the Lib Dems' Willie Rennie

Conservative Labour Scottish Nationalist Liberal Democrats Co La S L As the
election goes into its last few days at the end of a roller-coaster campaign,
Angus Macleod, Scottish Political Editor of The Times, looks at the fallout in
Scotland's key marginal seats, and presents his guide to the likely outcome
Aberdeen South The rise of Nick Clegg made this look as if it was going the way
of Edinburgh South. But even the Lib Dems are now admitting that Labour
incumbent Anne Begg is proving hard to beat Swing needed: 1.6% to Lib Dems
Dundee West SNP already holds Dundee East so would love to complete the double
in this city. Labour has been desperately trying to shore up Jim McGovern and
sounds more positive than ity did at the start of the campaign Swing needed:
7.3% to Lib Dems Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab hold Who holds the
seat now Lab Prediction: Lab hold Ochil and South Perthshire This is the seat
the SNP desperately wants to win and on paper it should. But Labour's Gordon
Banks is a shrewd organiser on the ground and the other parties think he will
hold on Swing needed: 0.8% to SNP Aberdeen South Stirling Could this be the
shock of the campaign. Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab hold Edinburgh
North & Leith In many ways a surprise packet of the Scottish campaign. Labour
appears to have been caught flat-footed by the Lib Dem surge and it is now
seriously worried. The Libs Dems are ultraoptimistic Labour says it is not
worried despite having to draft in Gordon Brown this week. But once again a lot
will depend on whether the Lib Dems prosper. The Tories have to settle for
denting Anne McGuire's majority Swing needed: 5.5% to Conservatives Ochil &
Perthshire South Swing needed: 2.5% to Lib Dems Who holds the seat now Lab
Prediction: Lib Dem gain Stirling Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab
hold Renfrewshire East If The Tories could take the scalp of Jim Murphy, the
Scottish Secretary, here it would be enormous compensation for another bad night
elsewhere in Scotland. But they're relying now on a good Lib Dem performance to
erode Labour support and the wily Murphy may have just enough of a majority to
survive Swing needed: 9.5% to Conservatives Perth & Perthshire North Dundee West
Dunfermline & Fife West Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab hold Dumfries
& Galloway The Tories' Peter Duncan has been nursing this seat for years and, if
he doesn't win, there will be wall-to-wall local Tory despair. Labour's Russell
Brown is a doughty fighter but Labour doesn't sound confident Swing needed: 2.8%
to Conservatives Perth & Perthshire North The Tories were very optimistic when
campaign hostilities began but not so cocky now after a gaffe-strewn campaign
from their candidate. But the SNP's Pete Wishart can't relax Swing needed: 1.7%
to Conservatives Edinburgh North & Leith Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction:
Conservative gain Who holds the seat now SNP Prediction: SNP hold Edinburgh
South Edinburgh South It started as a genuine three-way contest but Labour
appears to have given up on it and the Conservatives are beginning to discount
it. It will now be a shock if the Lib Dems don't take it Swing needed: 0.5% to
Lib Dems Glasgow East The SNP by-election win two years ago here rocked Scottish
politics. But even the Nationalists agree they'll probably lose it this time and
it will be a case of revenge for Labour's Margaret Curran Who holds the seat now
Lab Prediction: Lib Dem gain Dunfermline & Fife West A seat won spectacularly in
a by-election by the Lib Dems in 2006. But it is natural Labour territory and
the feeling is Labour might just do enough to take it back from the Lib Dems'
Willie Rennie Swing needed: 2.6% to Labour Renfrewshire East Kilmarnock & Loudon
Dumfries & Galloway Swing needed: 0.7% to Labour* Who holds the seat now Lib Dem
Prediction: Lab gain Who holds the seat now SNP Prediction: Lab gain *On
byelection Edinburgh South West Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale & Tweeddale Glasgow
East Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale & Tweeddale The Tories are sweating over this
one, their only seat currently in Scotland. Labour hase been pouring resources
into it but the Labour effort could be undone by a rise in support for the Lib
Dems, allowing David Mundell to hold on Swing needed: 2% to Labour Co La SL
Conservative Labour Scottish Nationalist Liberal Democrats Who holds the seat
now Tory Prediction: Conservative hold Fred Mackintosh Edinburgh South Thomas
Docherty East Renfrewshire Peter Duncan Jim Murphy Peter Lyburn Perth &
Perthshire North Dumfries & Galloway Dunfermline & Fife West

Swing needed: 0.8% to SNP Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab hold

Swing needed: 9.5% to Conservatives Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab
hold

Swing needed: 0.5% to Lib Dems Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lib Dem
gain

Swing needed: 2% to Labour Who holds the seat now Tory Prediction: Conservative
hold

Swing needed: 1.6% to Lib Dems Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab hold

Swing needed: 2.5% to Lib Dems Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lib Dem
gain

Swing needed: 2.8% to Conservatives Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction:
Conservative gain

Swing needed: 0.7% to Labour* Who holds the seat now SNP Prediction: Lab gain
*On byelection

Swing needed: 7.3% to Lib Dems Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab hold

Swing needed: 5.5% to Conservatives Who holds the seat now Lab Prediction: Lab
hold

Swing needed: 1.7% to Conservatives Who holds the seat now SNP Prediction: SNP
hold

Swing needed: 2.6% to Labour Who holds the seat now Lib Dem Prediction: Lab gain

Edinburgh South Stirling Edinburgh South West Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale &
Tweeddale Renfrewshire East Kilmarnock & Loudon Dumfries & Galloway Perth &
Perthshire North Aberdeen South Edinburgh North & Leith Glasgow East Dundee West
Dunfermline & Fife West Ochil & Perthshire South

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jim Murphy East Renfrewshire
Fred Mackintosh Edinburgh South
Peter Duncan Dumfries & Galloway
Peter Lyburn Perth & Perthshire North
Thomas Docherty Dunfermline & Fife West

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               May 2, 2010 Sunday

Policies you should believe in

BYLINE: Stephen Tomkinsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 736 words

ABSTRACT

Stephen Tomkins: The Church of England has stopped short of telling Anglicans
how to vote - and that's probably just as well

FULL TEXT

The Archbishops of Canterbury and York have offered a  to Christians, and I
suppose anyone who will listen, telling us how to vote. Surprisingly perhaps,
they came out for Ukip.

Actually their recommendations are rather less specific than that, and you have
to read a long way between the lines to get any concrete party politics.
Instead, the kind of principles they suggest that we should vote for are hope,
justice and making life better for old people and children.

This would be helpful for voters if there were a significant number of parties
whose manifestos pledged them to despair, injustice and making life worse for
old people and children, as we could then cross them off our list of possibles,
but like stealth tax and foreign invasions, these do tend to be policies to
bring in after an election rather than highlighting beforehand.

My feelings about religious leaders telling people how to vote are totally
inconsistent.

Hearing Catholic bishops make unsubtle hints that the faithful ought to return a
party that has Conservative attitudes to sexual ethics leaves me in a gibbering
rage. What right have unelected officials answerable only to Rome and Almighty
God to try and sway British elections to satisfy their own dogma?

But then, just as I'm about to insist that religious leaders should have no say
in party politics, I think of the 1908s, David Jenkins the Bishop of Durham, and
the Church of England's , opposing Thatcherism and the NCB, and I unpredictably
feel all warm and fluffy about bishops leading the nation in a principled stand
against the powers of darkness.

I guess what I feel is that bishops should lead the way so long as they agree
with me, which is a pretty immature. If you're a militant humanist you
presumably feel aggrieved about bishops speaking publicly about party politics,
whichever side they're on, but then if you're a militant humanist you presumably
feel aggrieved about bishops speaking publicly about anything at all, or indeed
about bishops continuing to exist.

The problem of interfering in party politics doesn't really arise in Williams'
and Sentamu's joint statement because the values they put forward are ones it
would be hard to find anyone to disagree with. They say that anxiety about
immigration should not stop us giving fair treatment to refugees, which seems
pretty sensible, but then I don't think I've heard any candidates say that
anxiety about immigration should stop us giving fair treatment to refugees.

There is something marvellously Anglican about the idea of religious leaders
feeling the need to give believers a nudge in the right direction when it comes
to voting, but not wanting to be to heavy and dictatorial, and so leaving it up
to the individual believer which direction they feel they should be nudged in.

The least that can be said is that the archbishops are encouraging people to
vote. With a 61 per cent turnout in 2005, that's a valuable contribution, though
if there is a major increase this time round, I think it's fair to say that will
be more thanks to Nick Clegg than to Williams and Sentamu.

I suppose their problem is that if people in their position are going to talk
explicitly about how to vote, it has to be on the level of the fundamental
values that should guide our whole attitude to politics, rather than precisely
where to put our wondrous cross on polling day. But those fundamental values are
also the most elemental and entrenched parts of our nature, the least likely to
be changed by debate or archiepiscopal decree.

You can easily enough imagine someone in the last week of the campaign deciding
that after all the economy is probably better in Brown's hands than Cameron's,
or that a vote for the Greens is more likely to put the Tories in power than to
deliver PR. But these changeable pragmatic judgments, half-visceral and
half-rational, issue from much more longstanding values, which are unlikely to
be overturned by a compelling performance at the podium or a clever argument on
the doorstep.

So I suspect the archbishops will find that they have offered us
well-thought-out and well-meaning teachings, and we have done whatever we were
going to do anyway. Being church leaders, it's something they'll be well used
to.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 2, 2010
                                 First Edition

May Day welcomed with a wave of hankies;
High on the South Downs, a tinkle of bells can be heard as the morris dancers of
West Sussex prepare for their centuries-old ritual. But all is not well with
this ancient tradition A slice of Britain

BYLINE: Kunal Dutta in Sussex

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 882 words


They arrive clad in white trousers with jangling bells and straw hats laced with
flowers. Some clutch wooden sticks, others hankies. Despite this garb, all are
completely unselfconscious, beaming with a palpable sense of pride and
achievement. To hell with Sir Arnold Bax's words ("A man should try everything
once, except incest and morris dancing"): these are morris men, and proud.

As dawn breaks over West Sussex, the Chanctonbury Ring Morris Men perform their
annual May Day ritual. They climb to a summit on the South Downs, pitch camp at
the famous circle of trees, and welcome the summer through an ancient ritual
that, to the untrained eye, looks like a peculiar mash-up of hopscotch and
gentle twirling of handkerchiefs. All at an ungodly hour of the morning.

Or course, there is far more to it than that. They uphold an English folk
tradition that dates back beyond the 15th century, and could easily have been
wiped out altogether when Oliver Cromwell took a sledgehammer to many hallowed
traditions. Fortunately for the group, established much more recently - in 1953
- he failed. And so 20 diehards meet each week to preserve the dance. One could
be forgiven for asking why.

Wal Jarvis, 74, peers at me through his spectacles. "Why not? It's good
exercise, thoroughly sociable and helping to resuscitate a dying English
tradition." But, come on, grown men, twirling handkerchiefs and dancing on the
summit of a hill at seven in the morning surely might seem peculiar to some.
"Only if you're not from around here," a woman onlooker retorts, glowering at
me.

The apparently random hopping, skipping and stickbanging comes in a bewildering
array of intricately prescribed forms. The most famous, Cotswold, with its
handkerchiefs and sticks, is derived from Cotswold villages, including Bidford,
Bampton, Adderbury and Stanton. It has been danced for hundreds of years. The
group also practises the north-west variation, for which they have to don clogs,
accompanied by a melodeon, fiddle and traditional tunes. The real business
begins at the end of the dancing, when the performers seek refreshment in local
pubs.

Marcus Gearhold, 43, a former rugby player, owns an engineering shop in Sayers
Common, West Sussex. Bullish looking, with a shaved head, he defies any morris
dancers stereotype. His view of the pastime is philosophical. "As a prop-forward
I used to be cannon fodder to the opposition," he says, attaching a band of
bells on to his legs. "Now I'm not fit enough to play rugby but I can still
drink beer and foster my interest in preserving our past. This is about meeting
like-minded people and more about a healthy sense of participation rather than
pure competition."

Normally the group has to race to the top of Chanctonbury Ring, an Iron Age
fort, by 7am and blitz through the dance before heading off to work. But 2010 is
different. With May Day falling on a Saturday, the team is commemorating May
1954 - a milestone for the club, when it caught the attention of national media.
The coverage, which included a photograph in a newspaper, is cited as one of the
factors responsible for a revival of morris dancing in the south of England. The
historic picture is being recreated and includes the four surviving members of
the team.

And what of today? What of the most compelling general election for generations?
"It's gotta be Ukip, innit?" quips a colleague. "Or the beer party."

The spiritual element of the dance trumps politics, according to Don Faulkner,
69, a retired artist. "Politicians have led us to believe that happiness is
acutely linked to monetary security. The roots of morris dancing are about
sowing, harvesting and the changing of the seasons. That may seem quaint to
some, but the simple pleasure of welcoming in the summer and the understanding
that the happiness of people can be found in everyday gifts of nature is
something pretty special. This is not ancient nonsense. It represents soulful
nourishment which can be easily lost in the frantic chase of monetary security."

Despite the best efforts of Chanctonbury, morris dancing faces a threat at least
as implacable as Cromwell - time. Its participants are knocking on in years.
That, and the fact that England has a sketchy relationship with its traditions.
Morris dancing has not always sat entirely comfortably with Christian theology.

Peter Halfpenny, recently appointed Squire of the Morris Ring, and so their
national spokesman, has to admit that membership has been in freefall. There are
14,000 members in 800 "sides" across the country. "The willingness to join sides
is not quite what it used to be," he says. "There was a huge surge in membership
in the 1960s and '70s, but the numbers have drifted off since then."

Insiders point to a simple, irrefutable recruitment problem: rural youngsters
are far more interested in sport and computer games. "I remember the days when
the procession of dancers would pass through the town," recalls Simon Mercer,
38, watching with his daughter as the dancers perform outside his branch of
NatWest.

Perhaps it just doesn't sit well with our idea of how British people should
behave. "For the stiff-upper-lipped Brit, the sight of grown men swirling
handkerchiefs and dancing together can be embarrassing," says Mr Mercer,
smiling. "But it shouldn't be."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                  May 2, 2010
                                 First Edition

Sudden death, divorce and an assassination Randall and Rentoul unleashed;
Not all this week, thankfully. But we did have praise from Tony Blair, concern
for Gordon Brown, and a cheeky remark about Nick Clegg David Randall (below
left) and John Rentoul (right) - taking their cue from one of television's
best-loved detective series, Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased) - sort the wheat
from the spin to provide all you need to see out this general election campaign
Election 2010

BYLINE: David Randall and John Rentoul

SECTION: NEWS WEEKLY; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1961 words


Hanging chads - UK-style

If the result is really close, one almost unnoticed event may come into play.
Last month, John Boakes, the Ukip candidate for Thirsk and Malton, North
Yorkshire, died. This has meant a rerun, with polling not happening until 27
May. What if hung parliament calculations are so squeakily tight that the new
government depends on who wins the delayed poll. The seat is nominally a safe
Conservative one, but is a new creation, and the result is by no means
predictable - especially if the composition, even the very nature, of the new
government depends on what would, in effect, be an election decider contested in
rural Yorkshire.

Candidate of the week

"They're all the same!" goes the voters' traditional cry. Proof of the contrary
arrives through Buckingham letterboxes courtesy of Independent candidate Anthony
Watts. His election address reads in part: "The Queen claims to possess a
democratic government in the House of Commons but her barristers have mutinied
and become representatives of the Queen and also the people which in turn
converts them into Totarians. The Speakers of the House of Commons have not done
their duties but rubbed shoulders with totarians in there, which brings into
disrepute .... Judgements since 1950 where Judges do the judging .... My
intention is to oppose totarians in the Commons or have them politically
neutered." Roy Jenkins couldn't have put it better.

An unexpected endorsement

Tony Blair has written a glowing article for Time magazine praising the Prime
Minister: "Jobs have been created ... Stringent fiscal measures introduced by
his government ... are mighty accomplishments that are recognised by the
international community ... He doesn't hesitate to lead from the front, often
with great personal courage. It is this conviction - and his unquestionable
personal integrity - that allows him to keep going in the face of daunting
odds." The only problem is that it is an article about the prime minister of
Palestine, Salam Fayyad. Gordon Brown will have to wait a little longer.

Political anorak's quiz

Last week, we asked you which religious-minded prime minister forecast the end
of the world. All those of you who plumped for Tony Blair were wide of the mark.
The identity of the Downing Street soothsayer is Spencer Perceval, a keen
evangelical (and member of the anti-hunting lobby), who thought the world would
end in 1926. Sadly, his clairvoyance was no more reliable when it came to his
own times. Failing to foresee the dangers, he attended the Commons on 11 May
1812, and was fatally shot by an unstable businessman called John Bellingham.
The inquest, incidentally, was held at the Cat and Bagpipes pub on the corner of
Downing Street.

An apology

Since it's a week when penitence is all the go, we have scoured the record and
finally have cause for a mea culpa of our own: an apology to the leader of the
Monster Raving Loony Party for omitting, from our precis of its policies, their
idea of minting a 99p coin to save on change. We now wish to visit him in his
home to view his family photo albums, drink his tea, eat his HobNobs, and
grovel. Our press spokesman has never seen us so mortified.

Gordon Brown - where it all went wrong

You may think the campaign's major screw-up was all down to a combination of the
Prime Minister's odd temperament and a stray microphone, but the roots, we now
learn, go much deeper. Word reaches us from a strange outfit called Successful
Spaces which says that "the magnetic alignments of No 10, when mapped against
the date of birth of its occupants, can give a clear indication of whether the
person occupying the building will have a successful home and work life while
they are there." SS's "success indicator" gives Brown a reading of 39 - on a
par, they say, with Jim Callaghan's, and well short of Margaret Thatcher's 64.
Lest anyone imagine that things can only get better, David Cameron's reading is
the same as Brown's, and Nick Clegg's is considerably worse, at 25.

Great moments in electoral literature

Andrew Pelling - elected as a Conservative in 2005 but had the party whip
withdrawn after he was arrested, but never charged, over a domestic incident -
is standing as an Independent in highly marginal Croydon Central. In what may
well be a first for British politics, his election address carries an
endorsement from his first wife, Sanae. She tells voters: "I'm sad to see
friends in the Conservatives being so horrible to him and people saying that
Andrew was unfaithful to me - that's just not true... I find it deplorable...
that the Conservatives should be distributing their hateful material with
references to me. The Conservatives have betrayed Andrew." The seat, which he
won by a mere 75 votes, is now a three-way marginal with much local support for
Pelling. He is a hard-working MP, and may well pull off a surprise win.

Election quotes

"Been heckled by a couple of smackheads in a stairwell" - Sally Bercow, wife of
the Commons Speaker John Bercow. She is a Labour local government candidate.

"His recognition factor is probably equal to mine, or exceeds it" - Liberal
Democrat candidate Lembit Opik showing his ego when talking about Nick Clegg.

"I think what you guys are looking for is someone to throw an egg at me or
something and then say that there is some public anger" - Gordon Brown talking
to journalists.

"I would suggest your husband changes his career because he has been looking
unwell since getting his new job" - A concerned shopper speaking to Sarah Brown
in Weymouth.

"A smile has to be a spontaneous thing if it is to look right, and it has to
come from the heart. It has to be about deriving pleasure from others. Gordon
Brown's smiles don't look natural" - Labour donor David Abrahams.

"Progressives have to realise that Britain is facing a
once-in-a-political-lifetime opportunity to defeat the Conservatives, usher in
electoral reform, an elected House of Lords and fixed-term parliaments. We may
never get this chance again" - Welsh Secretary Peter Hain.

"Good morning. I'm a 69-year-old Jewish lady and I want your vote" - Esther
Rantzen's comment as she entered a mosque in Luton South where she is standing
as an Independent.

"No Loony candidate has ever failed to lose their deposit - and any one who did
would face being drummed out of the party," Party leader Alan Hope.

"What did I say to be bigoted? I'm disgusted. He's an educated person. Why has
he come out with words like that?" - Gillian Duffy.

What does Cameron remind you of?

From the pages of Prospect come these verdicts on the leaders: Gordon Brown -
"Schoolboy in 1950s-style shorts ... keeps a chart of all the school marks he
has received in all the different subjects so he can demonstrate he has come top
of the form." Nick Clegg - "BA short-haul pilot." David Cameron - "A private
gynaecologist."

Clegg lookalike

Nick Clegg's recognition factor still leaves a little to be desired. Witness the
following scene on the London to Taunton train yesterday. A man with the Liberal
Democrat group was approached by retired American political science professor
Charles Hauss. "What are you doing for Clegg?" asked the former academic. "But,"
came the reply, "I am Clegg." According to Mr Hauss, the man of the moment
looked younger than he does on television, and, to the surprise of the American,
was also travelling standard class.

The sceptical voter's guide to the week

Sunday The Sunday papers come and go without a "Clegg in drug-fuelled
three-in-a-bed romp with asylum-seeking Nazi fugitive from Goldman Sachs bonus
scandal" headline. Nick Clegg indicates that, if Labour finished third, it would
be impossible for the Lib Dems to keep Gordon Brown in power. David Cameron, in
an Observer interview, won't rule out electoral reform. Prospects of a hung
parliament, and the resultant manoeuvrings, dominate questions the media put to
the leaders.

Monday: Brown addresses the Royal College of Nursing's conference in Bournemouth
and is given a standing ovation. The Tories say that poll results have
encouraged them to add a further tranche of Labour-held seats to their list of
targets. Clegg refines his hung parliament position, he says that if the Tories
win most seats, it would be them he negotiates with first. Alan Johnson says
Labour should not be fearful of power-sharing.

Tuesday: The Institute for Fiscal Studies issues a report which says all three
main parties have failed to give anything other than vague answers to how they
would deal with the deficit. Clegg is also given a standing ovation from the RCN
in Bournemouth. Conservative candidate in Ayrshire North and Arran adds to
Cameron's difficulties in wooing gay voters when he says that homosexuality is
"not normal".

Wednesday: Brown meets Rochdale pensioner Gillian Duffy, has a chat, tells her
how nice she was, then, in the safety of his car, is heard growling about what a
disaster the encounter was and how she was a "sort of bigoted woman". The
self-abasement which follows was almost unwatchable. Just to add to Labour woes,
one of their candidates is arrested and breathalysed after crashing her car into
a roundabout. Waterstone's said that sales of manifestos are running at:
Conservatives 38 per cent, Lib Dems 32, and Labour 30.

Thursday: Gordon Brown takes his rictus smile for a walk around a Midlands
factory. He looks like the manager of a relegated football team apologising to
supporters for the way the season has turned out. The final televised leaders'
debate is held in Birmingham. Under questioning that falls some way short of
forensic, Brown, Cameron, and Clegg trade sound-bites. Brown, who at this point
faces so much animosity that he would fail to win even a one-man popularity
contest, is more spirited than in the previous two debates, but he is still
adjudged by instant opinion polls to be the loser.

Friday: After the Labour campaign was derailed the previous day by the Duffy
Affair - still being commented upon ad nauseum - it encounters a car crash when
a vehicle has an accident just as Gordon Brown is about to unveil the party's
latest poster. The papers duly lap up the headline opportunities. Tony Blair
goes smiling round a clinic, giving a brief masterclass to his former chancellor
on what campaigning charm looks like. Gordon Brown tries to rouse students by
referring to a 1920s athlete.

Saturday: The Guardian and The Times both announce they are forsaking their
former attachment to Labour. The former now backs the Lib Dems, and the latter
the Conservatives. The polls continue to show a lead for Cameron, but not of
sufficient size for a working majority. And, from a variety of stumps, come
predictable warnings of the dire fate awaiting the voters if they foolishly
reject the speaker's advice.

We asked for versions of great passages of English literature translated into
Brownian.

The winners were: James Derounian with two entries: "There are reports that 600
of our troops are engaged in fighting in Helmand province. The Light Brigade are
targeting enemy positions. There may be casualties." (Alfred Tennyson, Charge of
the Light Brigade.) And "I could have gone one way, but went the other." (Robert
Frost, The Road Not Taken.) Adrian Brodkin "We shall fight in Kirkcaldy and
Cowdenbeath, we shall fight in Slough, we shall fight in Birmingham Selly Oak,
et cetera ad nauseam. And then we shall surrender." (Winston Churchill.) John
Gullidge "If he quoted, 'Friends, Romans, countrymen,' he would lose me on the
first word." (William Shakespeare.) Pamela Boston "If I can keep my head when
all around are losing theirs and blaming me/ If I can trust myself when all men
doubt me/ If I can dream and not make dreams master me/ If I can meet Tories and
Liberals and treat these two impostors the same ..." (Rudyard Kipling.)

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 2, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 88 words


It doesn't matter a tinker's tuppence who wins this election, because the
traitors at Westminster have already whored our sovereignty, pawned our
birthright and enslaved our children to the mussel-eating euro-fuhrers of
Brussels.

Voting intention: Ukip. Unless thinking tactically. Paradoxically, your best
hope of securing representation in the House of Commons is the introduction of
proportional representation as practised by those garlic-breathing continentals
and advocated by the europhiliac Lib Dems. Vote Clegg to get Farage!


LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 2, 2010

National: Election 2010: Britain's new voters: Which voting tribe do you belong
to? ANDREW RAWNSLEY AND CHRIS RIDDELL'S GUIDE TO THE ELECTORAL TRIBES 2010

BYLINE: ANDREW RAWNSLEY

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 891 words


Sweatie Leftie

The past 13 years have been one long betrayal. You marched against the Iraq war.
You attacked Tory Blair for making the rich richer. You deplored the
introduction of more than 3,000 new criminal offences since 1997. You repeatedly
wrote letters to the Guardian demanding the resignation of Gordon Brown.

Voting intention: Er, Labour. Where the local enemy is Tory, you will hold your
nose and vote for the Labour candidate, if only to try to keep out the
Bullingdon Boys. Elsewhere, you will vote Liberal Democrat.

Clegg Maniac

You've voted red, blue and green in the past and perhaps some more embarrassing
colours that you'd rather not mention, but at this election you've leaped aboard
the Cleggwagon. Only Cleggama can be trusted to blow apart the rotten politics
that brought us the parliamentary expenses scandal and, er, well, you haven't
quite got round to reading the rest of their manifesto.

Voting intention: Lib Dem, unless the right-wing papers manage to unearth
something truly embarrassing about nice Nick before Thursday.

Blairista

Mustn't gloat. You told everyone that Gordon would be a car crash of a leader
and so it has proved. Tony - didn't the old master look great when he dropped
into the campaign? - would have walked the TV debates. You are probably Cherie
Blair or Peter Mandelson. Your only consolation is that a hung parliament might
just produce the realignment with the Libs that was an original goal of the
Project.

Voting intention: You will vote for the Lab or Lib candidate best placed to beat
a Tory, even though you can't help secretly fancying a slice of Cameron's tax
breaks for millionaires.

Tribal Warrior

Labour would now be at least 10 points ahead in the polls were it not for the
diabolical media-industrial plot organised by the Etonian-Murdochist-

BBC-ites to destroy the character of the most decent, selfless, sweet-tongued
man ever to inhabit Number 10. He's a socialist hero who saved, um, capitalism.
It's a disgrace how they fitted up Gordon over that Mrs Daffy. It makes you want
to hit someone. You are probably John Prescott.

Voting intention: Labour in any seat, whether it makes sense or not.

Anxious Cameroon

With more money than you can shake at a non-dom, how hard could it be to defeat
grisly Gord? Dave was supposed to be cruising to an easy victory by now. But
something went wrong. A hung parliament means having to parley with those
ghastly, sanctimonious Libs. That's not at all what Dave meant when he invited
everyone to join the government. A small majority will leave us hostage to a
worse bunch of nutters - the Tory Right.

Voting intention: Tory with fingers crossed tighter than our first budget that
it will be all right on the night.

Fanatical Faragiste

It doesn't matter a tinker's tuppence who wins this election, because the
traitors at Westminster have already whored our sovereignty, pawned our
birthright and enslaved our children to the mussel-eating euro-fuhrers of
Brussels.

Voting intention: Ukip. Unless thinking tactically. Paradoxically, your best
hope of securing representation in the House of Commons is the introduction of
proportional representation as practised by those garlic-breathing continentals
and advocated by the europhiliac Lib Dems. Vote Clegg to get Farage!

Confused floater

Yeah but, I can't stand another five years of Brown. No but, I don't trust
smarmy Camera-off, Camera-on. Yeah but, what does that Nick Cable really stand
for? No but, I quite liked what Sam Cam was wearing the other day. Yeah but, I
do feel sorry for Sarah Brown. No but, I answered the door to this BNP canvasser
with some seriously nasty tattoos. Yeah but, not sure I'll have time to get to
the polling station anyway.

Voting intention: Undecided. These people will probably determine who wins.

Diehard Thatcherite

Makes you want to heave, all that hoody-hugging, tree-bothering,
minorities-loving, gay-snuggling. Chris Grayling is the only Tory who speaks any
sense - which is why they've bound and gagged him. Praying that our opponents
are right and Boy George does have a secret slash-and-burn plan. A hung
parliament which leads to PR will prevent us from ever again ramming through a
very rightwing programme on a minority of the vote.

Voting intention: Tory through gritted dentures. You want our side to win, but
not by much. That'll show Dave.

Snatching Nat

There'll be a gloating in the gloaming if a hung parliament gives the
nationalists lots of leverage. You just worry that Alex Salmond and his Welsh
cousin are being a bit too obvious about their ambition to squeeze more cash
from Westminster until the English taxpayer squeaks.

Voting intention: Plaid Cymru/SNP wherever they can win. Otherwise, Tory - on
the grounds that a Conservative government is likely to so aggravate the Scots
and Welsh that they'll finally have the gumption to go for independence.

Lifelong Lib

You were shaking in your sandals years ago when David Steel told his party to
"go back to your constituencies and prepare for government". The sandals have
long gone; now you use a trouser press. But the dream never dies. If you clap
your hands often enough, you can see Nick Clegg standing on the doorstep of
Number 10. You're not Vince Cable.

Voting intention: Lib Dem, even where it looks hopeless, to maximise national
share and give Nick "moral authority" to haggle in a hung parliament.


LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                  May 2, 2010
                                  Eire Edition

Wacky world of poll gurus

BYLINE: Nigel Nelson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 108 words


IT'S been a weird campaign what with "bigot" bungles, Elvis impersonators, and
Peppa Pig getting roasted in a media feeding frenzy.

I've even been contacted by living space guru Mike Chester with some mumbo-jumbo
about the magnetic alignments of No10 being bad for Gordon Brown's "success
indicators".

What is a living space guru, anyway? Someone with a beating heart in tune with
the planets? And life coach Andrea Lindsay emails to say I must check Nick, Dave
and Gordon for tingling noses which would show they are lying.

Ah well. At least this column has got through the campaign without mentioning
those wackos in UKIP and the BNP...oh damn.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Buckingham can send Westminster a message

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 164 words


THE ONLY candidate in this election on whose platform I have spoken and whom I
could wholeheartedly support (except perhaps for Kate Hoey) is Nigel Farage of
Ukip, who is trying to unseat Speaker Bercow in Buckingham. As I said at the
start of his campaign, two images above all symbolised the recent degradation of
Parliament. One was of three MPs (there should have been many more) shuffling
into the dock to face criminal fraud charges. The other was the election and
subsequent conduct as Speaker of Mr Bercow.

Bercow is standing at this election not as a Conservative (at least that much is
honest of him) but as Speaker. At Mr Farage's last election meeting on Thursday,
he was supported by Simon Heffer and two former Tory and Labour MPs, Sir
Nicholas Bonsor and John Lee. Whether or not Buckingham voters answer their call
next Thursday, there could be no better way to protest at the way Parliament's
standing has been dragged into the mire than to send little Mr Bercow packing.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Police talk about a perception of crime. I don't perceive being spat at, the
kids swearing and throwing bricks. They are real'

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 868 words


OUTSIDE the home of Michael Franklyn a Union Flag is flying. A few doors down
young Slovakian men try to sell tatty bric-a-brac to passers-by.

Castle Road in Chatham, Kent, is a row of terrace homes built in 1885 to house
Victorian families drawn to the once prosperous town by its thriving naval
dockyard.

The docks have long closed down, taking the town's fortunes with them and Castle
Road is now a forgotten street in a decaying area.

Paint peels off the window sills, doors are missing completely from some homes,
bags of rubbish are dumped in the alleys and BNP stickers on lampposts are the
only sign that an election is on.

This is the sort of white working class area which critics would say has been
abandoned by the smart metropolitan chattering classes and Labour's ruling
elite.

Mr Franklyn has lived in Castle Road "for 16 years too long".

Retired from Medway Council's social services department, he lives next door to
a "very nice" Polish family and "gets on well" with the West Indian neighbours
on the other side.

However Mr Franklyn, a member of the All Saints Residents Association and the
road's Neighbourhood Watch co-ordinator, believes an influx of Slovakian gypsy
families has brought increased problems to the area.

"A lot of the problems of anti-social behaviour are being caused by the
Slovakian kids," says Mr Franklyn. "You see them around when clearly they should
be at school and we get reports about them shouting and banging down the road at
1am and 2am.

"There are people up here who won't open their doors after dark. I suspect a lot
of people are too frightened to say anything.

"I will report things but there is a lack of a response from the police.

"Many of the incidents they don't even record as crime can be quite disturbing."

The story is repeated across Chatham, according to Conservative candidate Tracey
Crouch.

She said: "Immigration is the most unprompted issue raised with me on the
doorsteps, not just in Chatham but across the constituency. The economy,
employment, reform of the benefit system and anti-social behaviour follow."

Chatham and Aylesford is one of a string of marginal seats along the commuter
belt Medway towns of north Kent that the Conservatives should take.

The seat was created in 1997 and has been held since then by Labour's Jonathan
Shaw, now defending a notional majority of only 3,289. But while many of the
neighbouring Medway towns have experienced a renaissance, Chatham has never
recovered from the docks' closure.

Mr Franklyn was born and raised in Chatham. He wants Britain out of Europe but
will not abandon his lifelong membership of the Conservative party to jump ship
to UKIP.

However he has grown weary of politically correct politicians, council officers
and police down-playing local concerns about immigration and crime. "The police
always talk these days about a perception of crime.

"I don't perceive eggs being thrown at doors, I don't perceive being spat at, I
don't perceive the kids trying to break the phone box down the road, I don't
perceive the kids swearing at other people and throwing bricks at houses, I
don't perceive them urinating in the alley or even having sex there. I don't
perceive these things, I see them. They are very real.

"I think anyone you talk to, if they were honest, would tell you the problems
have got a hell of a lot worse in recent years."

Further down the road Sam King, a young mother of three, is worried about her
children growing up in Castle Road. Her youngsters will probably go to nearby
All Saints C of E Primary where a third of its pupils are from minority ethnic
backgrounds.

"I am not worried about the school so much as the children that my kids are
going to meet there," she says.

"You get kids round here who are just three or four and already all they are
interested in is fighting. It is terrifying."

Castle Road is a road of forgotten families, trapped in a well of poverty,
benefits and poor job opportunities.

It is not a street where you choose to live, it is a street where you end up.

COMMENT: PAGES 24 & 25

What do you think - HAS IMMIGRATION BROKEN UK?

YES - 0901 030 0982 NO - 0901 030 0983

YES text SXYES to 80088 NO text SXNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Voting closes at 23.59 tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rate.

Labour's grip slipping in South-east

KENT, Surrey and Sussex hold a string of key marginals - including Britain's
smallest majority.

Labour's Laura Moffatt took Crawley, West Sussex, by just 37 votes in 2005 while
Bob Marshall-Andrews, who is standing down this time, won Medway, Kent, by 213
votes.

Boundary changes should hand Sittingbourne & Sheppey and South Thanet to the
Tories and Gillingham & Rainham, Hove, Hastings & Rye and Kemptown are also
tipped to turn blue.

Dartford is a real bellwether seat and has been taken by the winning party in
every election since 1964. Dover, in Kent, is a tougher challenge but the sort
of seat the Conservatives need to win.

Green leader Caroline Lucas may take Brighton Pavilion, while the Lib Dems are
hoping to seize Eastbourne, East Sussex, and Guilford in Surrey.

London seats Hammersmith and Battersea are major Tory targets who also have
Watford, St Albans and Enfield North in their sights.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRIED: Michael Franklyn
DUMPED: Rubbish in Chatham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bull in the European china shop;
AUTOBIOGRAPHY

BYLINE: NEIL HAMILTON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 408 words


FiGHtiNG BUll *** Nigel Farage Biteback, £17.99

IT SEEMS personality still counts in politics, as the televised leaders' debates
have proved. nick Clegg added 10 per cent to the Lib Dems' poll percentage. What
would the result have been if UKIP's nigel Farage had been given equal billing?
A deft performer on platform and the box, he would have shown up the disputes
between the big three as largely bogus.

As UKIP's most charismatic public face, his achievement is far greater than
Clegg's. UKIP didn't even exist 15 years ago yet came second in last year's euro
elections, pushing Labour into third place. From zero to 16.5 per cent in little
over a decade is a stunning result. Fighting Bull entertainingly charts Farage's
progress from hardworking, hard-playing City metals trader to campaigning
political revolutionary. he was and remains "too sharp and bloody-minded to stay
on a slow but steady travelator to respectability".

He fought UKIP's first parliamentary election at eastleigh in 1994, scoring only
1.4 per cent. By 1999, he was an MeP, elected on a programme of putting himself
out of a job. I defy any democrat and patriot not to be outraged at his tales of
eU corruption, chicanery, incompetence and waste.

Also, marvel at the sheer uselessness of the european so-called Parliament,
which sits only 60 days a year, 12 in Brussels in a £700million building and 48
in Strasbourg in another one costing £300million. each MeP costs us £1.2million
a year and enjoys a General expense Allowance of £3,500 a month for which no
receipts are required. Votes occur at the rate of 600 an hour so MePs have no
idea what they are doing. they vote, nevertheless, because their allowances are
cut by half if they don't.

FARAGE believes in straight talking and was criticised recently for being
stunningly rude to eU President herman van rompuy, saying: "You have the
charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk. Who are
you? Who voted for you? What mechanism do the peoples of europe have to remove
you? Is this european democracy?"

Sadly, the answer is yes. Farage concludes: "Our role is to represent the people
against the politicians, to expose arrogant cheats, to fight the bull violating
europe and bull in general. We will break free of the european soviet and begin
once more to deal freely with the world on our own terms and subject to our own
laws."

The tragedy is he is not leading the Conservative Party.

NEIL HAMILTON

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Police talk about a perception of crime. I don't perceive being spat at, the
kids swearing and throwing bricks. They are real';
DUEL BRITANNIA ELECTION 2010: The best on-line election coverage and more
analysis - www.sundayexpress.co.uk/election IN THE run-up to the General
Election on Thursday, we have been heading round the country finding out what
you, the voters, think. Last week KIRSTY BUCHANAN went to Chatham in Kent to
discover a community divided by immigration and teenage tearaways

BYLINE: KIRSTY BUCHANAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 811 words


coverage and more analysis - www.sundayexpress.co.uk/election coverage and more
analysis - www.sundayexpress.co.uk/election

OUTSIDE the home of Michael Franklyn a Union Flag is flying. A few doors down,
young Slovakian men try to sell tatty bric-a-brac to passers-by.

Castle Road in Chatham, Kent, is a row of terrace homes built in 1885 to house
Victorian families drawn to the once-prosperous town by its thriving naval
dockyard.

The docks have long closed down, taking the toSwn's fortunes with them, and
Castle Road is now a forgotten street in a decaying area.

Paint peels off the window sills, doors are missing completely from some homes,
bags of rubbish are dumped in the alleys and BNP stickers on lampposts are the
only sign that an election is on. This is the sort of white working-class area
that critics would say has been abandoned by the smart metropolitan chattering
classes and Labour's ruling elite.

Mr Franklyn has lived in Castle Road "for 16 years too long".

Retired from Medway Council's social services department, he lives next door to
a "very nice" Polish family and "gets on well" with the West Indian neighbours
on the other side.

However, Mr Franklyn, a member of the All Saints Residents Association and the
road's Neighbourhood Watch co-ordinator, believes an influx of Slovakian gypsy
families has brought increased problems to the area.

"A lot of the problems of anti-social behaviour are being caused by the
Slovakian kids," says Mr Franklyn.

"You see them around when clearly they should be at school, and we get reports
about them shouting and banging down the road at 1am and 2am.

"There are people up here who won't open their doors after dark. I suspect a lot
of people are too frightened to say anything.

"I will report things but there is a lack of a response from the police. Many of
the incidents they don't even record as crime can be quite disturbing."

The story is repeated across Chatham, according to Conservative candidate Tracey
Crouch.

She said: "Immigration is the most unprompted issue raised with me on the
doorsteps, not just in Chatham but across the constituency.

"The economy, employment, reform of the benefit system and antisocial behaviour
follow."

Chatham and Aylesford is one of a string of marginal seats along the commuter
belt Medway towns of north Kent that the Conservatives should take.

The seat was created in 1997 and has been held since then by Labour's Jonathan
Shaw, now defending a notional majority of only 3,289.

Forty minutes by train from London, the constituency is literally and socially
divided by the M2 motorway.

To the north is Chatham, beset by urban decay and high unemployment. To the
south lie Walderslade and Aylesford, the more affluent commuter belt.

While many of the neighbouring Medway towns, such as Rochester and Strood, have
experienced a renaissance, Chatham has never recovered from the docks' closure.

Worst hit by the recession, the town has seen a 14 per cent drop in shop
occupancy rates since 2008.

Mr Franklyn was born and raised Europe but will not abandon his lifelong
membership of the Conservative Party to jump ship to UKIP.

However, he has grown weary of politically correct politicians, council officers
and police down-playing local concerns about immigration and crime.

"The police always talk these days about a perception of crime.

"I don't perceive eggs being thrown at doors,

I don't perceive being spat at, I don't perceive the kids trying to break the
phone box down the road, I don't perceive the kids swearing at other people and
throwing bricks at houses, I don't perceive them urinating in the alley or even
having sex there.

"I don't perceive these things, I see them. They are very real.

"I think anyone you talk to, if they were honest, would tell you the problems
have got a hell of a lot worse in recent years." Further down the road Sam King,
a young mother of three, is worried about her children growing up in Castle
Road.

Her youngsters will probably go to nearby All Saints C of E Primary where a
third of its pupils are from minority ethnic backgrounds.

"I am not worried about the school so much as the children that my kids are
going to meet there," she says.

"You get kids round here who are just three or four and already all they are
interested in is fighting. It is terrifying." Castle Road is not the sort of
street where the canvassers come knocking.

It's a road of forgotten families, trapped in a well of poverty, benefits and
poor job opportunities.

It is not a street where you choose to live, it is a street where you end up.

COMMENT: PAGES 24 & 25

What do you think - HAS IMMIGRATION BROKEN BRITAIN?

YES - 0901 030 0982 NO - 0901 030 0983

YES text SXYES to 80088 NO text SXNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Voting closes at 23.59 tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rate.

'Too frightened to say anything'

'Problems have got a lot worse'

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WORRIED: Michael Franklyn
DUMPED: Rubbish in Chatham

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Bull in the European china shop;
AUTOBIOGRAPHY

BYLINE: NEIL HAMILTON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 401 words


It SeeMS personality still counts in politics, as the televised leaders' debates
have proved. nick Clegg added 10 per cent to the Lib Dems' poll percentage. What
would the result have been if UKIP's nigel Farage had been given equal billing?
A deft performer on platform and the box, he would have shown up the disputes
between the big three as largely bogus.

As UKIP's most charismatic public face, his achievement is far greater than
Clegg's. UKIP didn't even exist 15 years ago yet came second in last year's euro
elections, pushing Labour into third place. From zero to 16.5 per cent in little
over a decade is a stunning result. Fighting Bull entertainingly charts Farage's
progress from hardworking, hard-playing City metals trader to campaigning
political revolutionary. he was and remains "too sharp and bloody-minded to stay
on a slow but steady travelator to respectability".

he fought UKIP's first parliamentary election at eastleigh in 1994, scoring only
1.4 per cent. By 1999, he was an MeP, elected on a programme of putting himself
out of a job. I defy any democrat and patriot not to be outraged at his tales of
eU corruption, chicanery, incompetence and waste.

Also, marvel at the sheer uselessness of the european so-called Parliament,
which sits only 60 days a year, 12 in Brussels in a £700million building and 48
in Strasbourg in another one costing £300million. each MeP costs us £1.2million
a year and enjoys a General expense Allowance of £3,500 a month for which no
receipts are required. Votes occur at the rate of 600 an hour so MePs have no
idea what they are doing. they vote, nevertheless, because their allowances are
cut by half if they don't.

F ArAGe believes in straight talking and was criticised recently for being
stunningly rude to eU President herman van rompuy, saying: "You have the
charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk. Who are
you? Who voted for you? What mechanism do the peoples of europe have to remove
you? Is this european democracy?" Sadly, the answer is yes. Farage concludes:
"Our role is to represent the people against the politicians, to expose arrogant
cheats, to fight the bull violating europe and bull in general. We will break
free of the european soviet and begin once more to deal freely with the world on
our own terms and subject to our own laws."

the tragedy is he is not leading the Conservative Party.

Neil HamiltoN

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Poster boy for booze, fags and mischief;
NORMAN STONE ; The hard-living historian tells of his cold war escapades in a
new book and shows he has lost none of his talent for insult ... or flirtation

BYLINE: DAISY GOODWIN

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1640 words


Ifirst met Norman Stone, who was then a fellow at Trinity College, Cambridge, 30
years ago when I was an 18-yearold undergraduate. He answered the door to his
study wearing a bathrobe so short that it could be more accurately described as
a bath jacket, a glass of scotch in one hand and a cigarette in the other.

He greeted me warmly in a characteristic mixture of English, Polish and
Hungarian, and in between explaining quite brilliantly how the
Counter-Reformation used art as propaganda in the 17th century, he refilled his
glass several times, smoked many more cigarettes and told me the story of the
time he was imprisoned in Budapest for trying to smuggle out a dissident.

This story, which evokes Anthony Powell in its web of connections and countesses
across central Europe, is one of the many idiosyncratic gems that pepper Stone's
new book, The Atlantic and Its Enemies: A Personal History of the Cold War. He
decided to write it after abandoning an attempt at a history of the entire
world: looking around for a subject, he realised all the current works on
post-war Europe were "tedious beyond belief ... worthy and mind-numbing".

Those are adjectives that no one would apply to The Atlantic and Its Enemies.
Who could fail to warm to a chapter that yokes together insults and insights
thus: "Afghanistan is another gigantic dwarf like Greece, a place, not very
significant in itself, where geography and the local complications combined to
make it important on a world scale ..." It's all deeply prescient. What does
Norman think about the "local complications" currently troubling Greece, then?
Should the Germans simply take the place over? "Well, they haven't got a very
good record on that one. They starved a good bit of it to death in the war, of
course, and then the rest turned communist," he observes, eyes crinkling. "But I
love the Greeks; everybody does."

Although Stone's book is about the triumph of capitalism, he does not include
the formation of the European Union in that triumph.

"The European Union is like some tasteless Dutch vegetable, irredeemably
detumescent," he pronounces. "I mean, just look at that extraordinary woman they
have made foreign minister, Lady Ashton - she looks like ET as dressed by Oxfam.
The best thing the EU could do would be to draft in another country, somewhere
like Angola, which would torpedo the whole wretched union thing and put it out
of its misery."

It's all good knockabout stuff, and it reminds me why Norman was probably the
best and certainly the most entertaining teacher I ever had. In conversation he
is unstoppable, continuing to apply the same irreverent erudition to Russian
boyars - "the Russians owed everything to the Poles, just like the English owed
everything to the Scots ... and our Jews are a terrible disappointment: they
should have taken over Britain by now" - as to McCarthyism in 1950s America: "a
gigantic storm in a teacup - terrific piece of stage martyrdom, compared with
what was going on in Russia and China at the time ... it was just a few
self-important windbags in Hollywood getting their bottoms smacked, while the
real problem, the black problem, was being ignored".

Supervisions with Stone were an intoxicating blend of eastern European languages
(he speaks about 11 fluently), brilliant lateral connections, teasing and the
odd pass (he was between marriages at the time). I remember all too vividly
being cornered against the fridge as he whispered sweet nothings in Romanian.
When I remind him of this, he giggles and says: "Shut up."

It has to be said he took his rejection(s) like a man. The world has changed, of
course, but in the early 1980s any Cambridge girl that didn't get hit on by
Stone would have felt unfairly singled out. I don't think anyone ever
complained, and I certainly thought that his enthusiasm added to the quality of
my education.

And, to do him credit, he never dangled better marks as an inducement.

The best advice he ever gave me was to learn some obscure quotes in Hungarian
and throw them in wherever possible, "as no examiner apart from myself will
understand them". It was, as I recall, quite a successful strategy.

His teaching certainly inspired some of the best of the current crop of
historians: Orlando Figes, Niall Ferguson and Andrew Roberts. When I ask him why
there are no women on this list, he looks a bit sheepish and says he reached his
teaching zenith before women really penetrated Oxbridge.

We both know he is fibbing. Norman likes his clever boys. I ask him about the
scandal surrounding Figes - who recently fessed up to attacking his rivals'
books in anonymous online reviews - and he grimaces: "Oh, for God's sake, nobody
died. Everybody makes mistakes, but he hasn't made any mistakes so far, and
every middle-aged man needs to make a few."

Stone, 69, has certainly clocked up his fair share. Leaving Cambridge and going
to Oxford in 1984 was a big mistake. "There was hatred on both sides. It was a
relationship best brought to an end. I left Cambridge, which was full of
interesting people, to sit in a tiny room in Worcester College, where lunch
would be an apple and the conversation would be about what I was doing for my
holidays and mortgage rates."

He says the Oxford establishment really hated his admiration for Margaret
Thatcher, for whom he wrote speeches in the late 1980s. "I had huge admiration
for her. She had a wonderful presence in a prima donna-ish sort of way." When
Thatcher was ousted in 1990, Stone was gutted. "I remember going to my local
off-licence in north Oxford to buy a bottle of gin in which to drown my sorrows,
and the man behind the counter said, 'Gin I have, but I've been cleaned out of
champagne since Mrs Thatcher got the boot.' " He says he detests the Tory party
in its current incarnation: "What's the rock music, no ties and silly voices all
about? They should just stand up and declare that global warming is a huge con
and passive smoking is completely harmless, stop taxing people for the first
£10,000 and everyone would vote for them. And as for their ridiculous marriage
policy, £150 wouldn't even pay for a solicitor's signature on the divorce
papers."

So will he be voting UKIP, then? "Oh, don't be ridiculous," he snorts.

It's surprising that Stone - who is passionately interested and excited by
Germany - should have been such an admirer of Thatcher, the little Englander.
"Oh, she and I had our differences over Germany," he admits. "But she was right
for all the wrong reasons. She didn't realise the Third Reich was a terrible
aberration in German history, but she did see that the Germans were slavish in
their devotion to Europe and that the euro would be their weakness."

Apart from Thatcher, his other great hero in the book is Ronald Reagan. Given
his admiration for America, I wonder why he didn't go there after fleeing
Oxford, rather than to Turkey, where he now teaches at Ankara University.

"Daisy, I smoke. By the time the plane is flying over Halifax I am a gibbering
wreck."

He knew Turkey would be his kind of place when, arriving at the airport, he saw
two security guards dressed in black, with machineguns, standing under a huge
"Smoking is forbidden" banner, happily puffing away. He went to see his doctor
in Ankara last week, who suggested feebly that it might be time for him to give
up cigarettes, but retracted the advice when Stone gave him a tirade about all
the ex-smokers who instantly go on to develop Alzheimer's and cancer and to get
divorced. "Sensible people, the Turks. I even approve of their feminists."

In fact this book almost didn't get written because he gave up smoking in 2005.
"I immediately developed writer's block, tried to write with a glass in my hand,
and that is never a good idea." He went back on the fags in March 2007, and
"then the book wrote itself".

He seems a lot happier and, despite the cigarettes, a lot healthier than when I
knew him 30 years ago. His peregrinations between north Oxford, where he still
shares a house with his wife, Christine, and Turkey suit his restless spirit. In
many ways his ruined-bloodhound face doesn't seem to have aged at all. It was
always like this. He is an advertisement for the regenerative powers of booze,
fags and limitless curiosity.

I ask if he finds the prospect of a hung parliament depressing. "One of the
lessons of the Seventies," he replies, "is that while we may be in for a bad
period, Britain will bounce back. The music is awfully good, and the bookshops
are full of things I want to read. It's not so bad."

Stone was born in Glasgow and still retains his Glaswegian accent, which makes
his eastern European languages sound all the more authentic. Does he have any
sympathy with the Scottish Nationalists? He snorts again. "Put it this way: when
the British Army puts down the Scots with fire and the sword, I shall be riding
on the tanks, acting as their interpreter."

So what does worry him, apart from the forces of anti-smoking, of course? "Oh,
the declining birth rate in Europe; it's terrifying. And the old are taking
over. In Istanbul you see all these 90-year-old Dutch pensioners striding off
the cruise ships, devouring the next generation's inheritance. The worse, the
better, as Lenin would say; the worse, the better." More cigarettes and earlier
deaths is the only way forward.

We've gone outside for a cigarette, of course, and he invites me to Istanbul.
"But don't worry: I have a spare bed." When I come back in I realise that the
tape recorder I have been using is broken. "Oh, just make it up, Daisy," he
says, but even though I aspire to write fiction, you would have to be Gogol,
both Amises, Powell and Laurence Sterne all rolled into one to do justice to
Norman Stone.

The Atlantic and Its Enemies is reviewed in Books, Culture, page 36

'' When the British Army puts down the Scots, I'll be riding on the tanks

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRANCESCO GUIDICINI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TABLE TALK

BYLINE: AA GILL

SECTION: STYLE;FEATURES; Pg. 54,55

LENGTH: 1365 words


They like it to be known that they live in the green heart of England, the good,
godly burghers of Buckingham. "Of course," they say, "you're in the heart of
England." They say it with a certain cardiovascular, tumptytum smirk. They say
it a lot, with a moue of self-love, because if you can't adore yourself in the
heart of the nation, where can you? I might one day compile the offal guide to
England: Liver-pool, Newcastle and Sunderland, the kidneys of the nation;
Exeter, the bladder; Doncaster, the appendix (we could survive perfectly well
without it); Nottingham, Blighty's vagina; and Chipping Norton, the winking
sphincter of old Albion.

It's small, Buckingham, bullied by Milton Keynes and Aylesbury. Along with the
self-love, it has a treacly dose of self-pity. It's a pretty me-centric place
all together. It has a saint, Rumbold, which is more than Milton Keynes. I'm not
making that up. The church made it up first. This is the story of St Rumbold.
Bear with me, it's short. He was born in 650. My photographer has just asked if
that was AD or BC. No, fool, it's 10 to 7. With his first breath, he announced
that he was a Christian.

I imagine his father saying, "What is it?" and the infant replying, "I'm a
Mormon. Can I come in and tell you the good news." Actually, that would have
been silly. The Mormons hadn't invented themselves then Obviously he was a
Catholic. The next day, he astounded everyone (no kidding) by delivering a
sermon before he'd even read a Bible, or heard Thought for the Day. At the end
of the sermon, when his mum was presumably beaming with pride, and his dad was
considering being nagged by a holier-than-thou preternatural infant, the kid
announced that he was going to be doing dying the next day. Apparently it was
only a fleeting visit, like jetting in to do Jonathan Ross. And he did. He
snuffed it in the morning, and they buried him. And then they built Buckingham
on top of him, just to make sure. St Rumbold's feast day is November 3. That's
the day he died and was born again in heaven. I bet God was pleased to get him
back. He is the patron saint of preciosity, child film stars and premature
ejaculation. His mother must have been broken-hearted. I expect his father
devoutly counted his blessings and the pilgrimage donations.

Buckingham is built on the fault line between the ancient nations of the
Anglo-Saxons and the Norsemen. It doesn't feel like a border, but there's still
the palely loitering xenophobia. I was here for the election, and was talking to
the UKIP candidate and his minions, getting half an hour of England for the
English, and "it's not that we've got anything against immigrants, we just don't
want them here. Why can't they emigrate at home? We're full up. There's no more
room. Grande-Bretagne complet". (Buckingham: population 12,000.) It's one of
those familiar and wanly fearful moans, where I just slip on the bland face and
bite my Indian, French, Mauritian, Scottish, Yorkshire tongue. You know what
Tinkerbell says: "Every time you say you don't believe in fairies, a fairy
dies." Well, every time you say, "I don't believe in immigrants," some skinny
African gives up the ghost. And I feel a week has been shaved off my life.

So I left UKIP to their pre-Norman reverie and walked up the street. A lady
bounded out of a doorway and said: "You're AA Gill, aren't you?" This is always
a tricky moment. It could go either way. I say "always", but, really, it's both
times. It's been a man who wanted me to pay him three million quid in damages,
and a girl who said I'd spoilt her honeymoon with seafood vomiting and
petrochemical diarrhoea. This lady said: "Oh my God, I can't believe you're
here." Which made two of us. "I love you." Which made two of us. Even with my
best, liberal righteousness, I couldn't help noticing that the lady was black.
Beautifully very, very black. And while that's not wholly unknown in Buckingham
- they don't still touch black people for luck, or ask to see the palms of their
hands - it's rare. "Someday I'd love to cook for you," she said. I noticed the
doorway she'd sprung from was a fish-and-chip shop. I also noticed it was
lunchtime. Well, what about now?

Halibut is a small shop front, with a takeaway fish-and-chip business downstairs
and a dining room upstairs. The wallpaper is the same as at Olivomare in
Belgravia. The menu is short and has a flourish of international sophistication.
Fish soup, oysters, Arbroath smokies with cream and parmesan, prawn and squid
ceviche, are all offered for starters. I had the gbegiri soup from Nigeria, made
with beans and dried fish and finished with beautiful red palm oil and smoked
paprika. The palm-oil nut was taken by slaves to Brazil, where it is now the
totemic ingredient in the great stews of Bahia state; a rich, thick, unctuous
oil that has also been refined to be the murderous, cholesterol-heavy heart of
fast food. But here, at home in Buckingham, it was wonderful. The soup,
farinaceous and widemouthed, nicely monoglot, with the heat of chillies. Main
courses were net-caught Hastings mackerel. Interesting that they advertise nets.
Mackerel exhaust themselves in nets and grow flabby. Generally, you want
linecaught.

There's a butter-poached lobster, sea bream, kedgeree, langoustine and crab
ravioli and the penultimate fish and chips.

My snuffer had the fish and chips, which he said were very, very nice. I had the
chicken jollof, which is a West African rice dish. A sort of paella made with
chicken, seafood, peppers and rice cooked in that staple of Africa, tomato
paste. It was all made with a vibrant authenticity, bright flavours, big smiling
mouthfuls. I appreciated it, but liked it less, because I'm not generically a
fan of lots of stuff in rice. I don't much like Andalucian paella. Two courses
cost £12, three £15, and that's exceptional value.

Zakima, who runs this place with her partner, Sam, and her sister Abi, came, in
a roundabout way, from Nigeria. Why Buckingham? Because she wanted to bring up
her son, who plays rugby here, in the country. This is such a counterintuitive,
countertruism story. Abi and Zakima are so bright, enthusiastic, happy,
balanced, productive and welcome - such a killing antidote to the grey fear and
resentment of populist politics. But, in truth, they aren't. All migrant stories
are like this - all exceptional, all touching and brave. The migrant is counter
safety and blandness, counter laissez faire and fear. It is the nature of new
beginnings to hope and work hard. You can't be remotely interested in food and
remain a little Englander. If you like eating, you want to hug every stranger
you see. Everything we put in our mouths plumps us with the wellbeing and innate
goodness of travel and otherness, of movement, of the cosmopolitan, the fresh
impetus of immigration and change. Food is the first thing immigrants bring;
restaurants and shops the first businesses they offer. We know that one cuisine
doesn't wipe out others, it simply adds to it. Two weeks ago, the English Curry
Festival was held in Calcutta, to introduce the Bengalis to the joys of baltis
and chicken tikka masala. I looked up Buckinghamshire's speciality food, and was
offered a list: halal, Indian, Italian, Kosher, Mexican, oriental, South
African, South American and tea. There is a Buckingham tradition, a clanger,
that is a sort of reinforced Cornish pasty with a boot: in the front there's
meat, peas and potatoes; in the back, fruit and jam.

Halibut is a good restaurant, an exceptional one in Buckingham. It is
particularly welcome because of Zakima and Abi. All food is an illustration to a
story - it's the story that makes it taste. "It's a pity you won't be here next
week," Zakima said. "We're holding a hustings for all the candidates. And then
champagne and fish and chips." Wine from France, fish from Iceland, potatoes
from Peru, hospitality by way of Lagos, the heart of England.

HALIBUT *** FOOD **** ATMOSPHERE 15 CORNWALL PLACE, HIGH STREET, BUCKINGHAM;
01280 817141. TUE-SAT, LUNCH, NOON-3PM, DINNER, 6PM-10PM ***** HALLE BERRY ****
HALE-BOPP *** HALIBABA ** HALIBORANGE * HALLIBURTON

YOU CAN'T BE REMOTELY INTERESTED IN FOOD AND REMAIN A LITTLE ENGLANDER

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rich List clarifications

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 154 words


Mike Ashley, the owner of Newcastle United football club, has asked us to make
clear that he has not "pledged to make at least £25m available this summer to
buy players" as stated in last week's Sunday Times Rich List. We are happy to
correct the record.

Peter Cruddas In the entry for Peter Cruddas, we inadvertently used a subsidiary
company's figures when quoting company accounts for CMC Markets plc. The correct
2008-9 figures for CMC Markets were a £15.1m loss on sales of £193.2m.

John Whittaker In a table of political donors, we incorrectly attributed to John
Whittaker, chairman of the Peel Group, a donation of £81,409 to the United
Kingdom Independence party (UKIP). We are happy to confirm that Mr Whittaker,
who is not registered to vote in the UK, made no such donation and apologise for
this error and the embarrassment caused. The donation was made by Dr John
Whittaker, the former UKIP MEP for the North West.

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP candidate fights his election from the Loire;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 147 words


The Liberal Democrats might talk the talk, but it's the UK Independence party
that's really changing the way politics is done in this country.

Lord Pearson, the UKIP leader, showed the way by urging voters to back other
parties in the election. He then admitted on the BBC's Campaign Show that he was
a bit hazy on some of the detail in his party's manifesto (although conceding
that he'd read it).

But even his lordship's commitment to new-style politics is outshone by Bill
Wright, UKIP's candidate in Dumfries and Galloway. He has decided to run his
anti-European campaign from his holiday home in France.

The 65-year-old engineer flew to Rossay in the Loire Valley shortly after
signing his nomination papers, and plans to return just in time for the count.

Wright's neighbour in Dumfries, Crawford Primrose, said yesterday: "I think it's
hilarious. My wife's looking after his cats."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UKIP candidate runs election campaign from French home

BYLINE: Toby McDonald

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 569 words


A CANDIDATE for the UK Independence Party, which favours withdrawing Britain
from the European Union, has defended his decision to run his election campaign
from his holiday home in France.

While rival candidates have been pounding the streets of Dumfries and Galloway
Bill Wright has been enjoying the spring sunsh ine almost a thousand miles away
in the picturesque village of Rossay in the Loire Valley.

He flew out to his Gallic bolthole shortly after signing his election nomination
papers at the beginning of April and plans to return to the constituency on
Wednesday, in time for Thursday's count.

Speaking from France, Wright said he'd agreed to stand at the last minute when
the previous candidate pulled out but had already arranged to oversee
modification work on his holiday home, which he had arranged in February.

"I explained fully to the party that I had prior commitments and was coming here
and it was accepted that I could stand on those grounds," he said.

"I love Europe for a holiday, I just don't want to be ruled by bureaucrats who
are not elected.

It's a wonderful place, great culture, great history but they cannot rule us. I
accept criticisms but I had very strong commitments to come here.

"Iamin touch electronically.

I have been sending my press releases to my election agent and I have been
answering any letters that any constituent has sent in.

"I would love to have been going around in Dumfries and Galloway letting people
see me but I had these prior commitments.

The house needed to be brought up to modern standards."

Wright said he intended to return home on the eve of polling day, adding that he
did not think his absence from the campaign trail would affect his support. "I'm
coming back on the 5th, I'll swim if I have to. If I'm elected, I'll give my all
to Dumfries and Galloway.

"I wish it was another time but it has happened and it has taken this long for
people to realise that I'm in France and I think under the circumstances I
amdoing what I can."

The 65-year-old retired engineer's disappearance was noticed when he missed a
BBC Scotland radio debate between the five candidates contesting the seat.

Labour has a majority of 2,922 and a swing of just under 3% could give control
to the Tories. UKIP's decision to field a candidate threatened to split the
right-wing vote. UKIP Scotland describes itself as "a libertarian, non-racist
party seeking Britain's withdrawal from the European Union".

Wright's disappearance has raised eyebrows in Dumfries. Yesterday his neighbour,
Crawford Primrose, said he had signed Wright's nomination papers shortly before
he left.

"I had no problem doing that because I just thought it was hilarious," he said.
"My wife's looking after his cats.

"He might as well donate his £500 deposit. The fact is the guy is not doing any
canvassing.

"How can you become the prospective candidate for Dumfries against Labour, the
Conservatives and so forth when you don't even bother to stand up on a soapbox
in the town square and say what your manifesto is and what you are standing for?
"He is against the Euro and is against this and against that as the UKIP party,
then he vanishes off to a holiday house in France."

Peter Duncan, the Conservative candidate, said: "Local people in Dumfries and
Galloway want a hard-working local MP and expect a hard-working local campaign.

"With 75,000 electors to meet in two days, Wright will have a busy couple of
days."

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wright left his Dumfries home at the start of the campaign
DAVID PAGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 2, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Is anybody here listening?

BYLINE: JASON ALLARDYCE; Scott Hussey

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1874 words


Annabel Goldie paid tribute to the best of British yesterday when she and Tory
colleagues rolled into Stonehaven in a fleet of Minis painted in the colours of
the Union flag. Without a Saltire in sight, her publicity stunt was a nod to The
Italian Job, the classic British movie starring Sir Michael Caine, who recently
launched the party's pledge to introduce a voluntary national service scheme for
young people.

But the scheme, like much else on offer in this election, has little resonance
in Scotland - Alex Salmond has already ruled it out- now that domestic issues
such as health, education and policing are devolved to the Scottish parliament.

Over the past four weeks, UK party leaders have dutifully trooped north on the
campaign trail, bearing the message that Scotland is still important to them.
But the reality is that the likely future tenant of 10 Downing Street will
occupy his position irrespective of how Scots cast their votes on Thursday.

There has been a palpable sense of detachment among Scots at events going on in
the south. While Cameron and Clegg vie for supremacy, Scotland seems only to
have eyes and ears for Gordon Brown. The Scottish National party and the Liberal
Democrats may fight over the scraps, but the truth is that Scotland remains, as
it has done for the past half century, a staunch Labour country.

Devolution was supposed to address the democratic deficit of the Thatcher years,
when Scotland consistently voted for one party and got another. If anything, the
existence of the Scottish parliament appears to have exacerbated the differences
between north and south. So what will the result of the election mean for
Scotland and does it signal the need for a further disbursement of power from
Westminster to Edinburgh for Scots to feel part of the UK? Ian Watson from
Penilee in the south side of Glasgow is a typical Labour supporter. The
42-year-old graphics communicator for Ikea said that, despite the recession and
the promise of massive cuts in public spending, he retains faith in the people's
party to serve his interests.

"Lots of my colleagues lost their jobs but I was lucky. My family would
traditionally vote Labour and I think I will this time. I think they've done
well. They've stopped the recession being far worse.

Julie Rodger, a 52-year-old mother of two from Cumbernauld, lost her job at a
legal firm in 2008 and was unemployed for five months before finding a new job
as an administration officer for the NHS.

"I've always tended to vote Labour and it would take a lot to change my mind. I
was made redundant from my job as a paralegal when the housing market went down
the pan, and my daughter's husband was made redundant last week but I don't
blame Labour and I still think I'll vote for them."

Labour has enjoyed an entrenched position in the west of Scotland for decades,
with a majority of Westminster seats and, until recently, the lion's share of
representation at Holyrood and in town halls. Its place was cemented by a
unionised workforce and a strong public sector. In recent years the social
effects of economic restructuring, and the closure of coal mines and heavy
industrial plants by successive Conservative governments made it the natural
recipient of deep feelings of resentment among voters.

Having a Scot as prime minister has undoubtedly been a source of pride among
many Scots, which could be problematic for Cameron if, as expected, he is the
next prime minister. Opinion polls suggest the Tories will fail to win any more
than their one existing Scottish seat, although their private polling suggests
they may win four.

"Ever since Scotland has been significantly Labour it has always been a
bystander in Westminster elections, hoping and willing the English to vote
Labour," says Gerry Hassan, a political analyst. "Unless Labour wins, Scotland
is marginalised.

"Despite the Scottish parliament, there still is a democratic deficit because if
Scotland votes mostly Labour on Thursday and we end up with a Tory government,
the Tory government will take decisions on a huge block of political and
macroeconomic questions.

difficult, the Scots will say, 'we didn't vote for this'. The SNP will then use
that to say that these are London cuts being imposed upon us and that we should
have the right to raise our own taxes, and so on."

Cameron has been at pains to promise he will respect Scotland and its devolved
government, and will be a frequent visitor to Holyrood to talk about the Queen's
speech while his chancellor briefs MSPs on the budget.

He has promised not to cut the Scottish government budget at least for the first
year of a Conservative administration and to legislate on further powers for the
Scottish parliament. He has also decided ministers in every UK department will
be appointed to keep an eye on Scotland and the impact their decisions have
north of the border.

Salmond's Westminster campaign has been unusually muted. Following an ambitious
prediction that his party would win 20 seats, he subsequently adopted a
comparatively low media profile, perhaps to reduce expectations about his
party's prospects.

After struggling to raise funds, with donors like Brian Souter refusing to
bankroll the campaign, the SNP's parliamentary team will be lucky to reach
double figures after Thursday. David Steel, the former Liberal leader, suggests
the normally sure-footed Salmond has misjudged public opinion.

"I thought he ran a brilliant campaign for the Scottish parliament but this has
been the reverse. His campaign seems to consist of whingeing about not being on
the telly- he's never off the telly. Why he thinks he needs to inflict himself
on the people of England and Wales I don't know. It's a sort of exaggerated
vanity that has turned people off. It's been a damp squib and he won't get his
20 seats or anything like it."

But Salmond's campaign for a platform in the televised leaders' debates, against
the wishes of what he terms the London-based broadcasters, offers an insight
into the much more high-profile agenda he intends to push if Cameron wins, as
some of his senior colleagues hope.

In recent weeks Cameron has suggested he will review the Barnett formula, the
system that has awarded Scotland about 20% more per head in identifiable UK
public spending than England receives. Moving towards a needs-based formula,
even if it is combined with new tax-raising powers for Holyrood, will be seized
upon by Salmond as evidence of an anti-Scottish agenda by an alien English
government and may give his party the boost it needs to retain office in
Edinburgh.

As a poll demonstrated last week, a Cameron win could create a perfect storm for
the nationalists, with support for Scottish independence set to rise
dramatically.

"There's been very little of an SNP message during the Westminster elections,"
says Hassan. "I think there's a sense the SNP is biding its time, waiting for
what happens at the election."

Carol Craig, chief executive of Scotland's Centre for Confidence and Wellbeing,
suggests the devolution settlement is already looking outmoded as the election
highlights the disjunction of power between Westminster and the devolved
regions.

"This is beginning to come apart at the seams," she said last week. "While most
people have made their peace with it [the settlement] and most people can't
imagine Scotland without the parliament, nonetheless this election, particularly
with the television debates, is making it seem bizarre for us to be watching
issues that have nothing to do with us.

"When you hear them say that the crime rate has come down- well, it hasn't in
Scotland, so a lot of the things we are being subjected to just aren't true for
Scotland."

Whatever happens south of the border on Thursday, few Scots are expecting the
political landscape here to change. John Harvey, 19, a plumber and a first-time
voter from Robroyston in Glasgow, said voting Labour was in his blood.

"My family vote Labour so that's who I'm going to vote for. I watched a bit of
the third leaders' debate but only about five minutes' worth, then I switched it
off. I don't want to listen to what they have to say."

Additional reporting: Scott Hussey

Thursday night viewing guide

10PM

The joint BBC/ITV/Sky News exit poll will be unveiled on the stroke of 10pm. The
exit poll was spot on in its prediction of Labour's majority in 2005. It will
give an early insight of the overall pattern to be expected

11PM

One of the charming quirks of British general elections is the battle between
constituencies to be the first to declare. Sunderland South has been first since
1992 and set a record of 41 minutes in 2001, but the seat disappears in the
boundary changes. Election officials in Sunderland are now focusing their
efforts on Houghton and Sunderland South. The seats have large Labour
majorities, so forget about swing and concentrate on what has happened to each
party's share of the vote. If Labour's falls relative to the Tories, it suggests
good news for David Cameron

12.45AM

The first marginal to declare could be Birmingham Edgbaston. Gained by Labour
for the first time in 1997, this is a Tory must-win. Cameron's party will be
looking for a national swing three times higher than the 2% it needs here

1AM

All three seats in the London borough of Wandsworth are expected to declare
around now. The Tories won Putney in 2005, and must now add Battersea (easy) and
Tooting (much harder) to the list. A win in Tooting could herald an overall
majority

1.30AM

A key indicator of Labour's battle on a second front will come in the City of
Durham. The Lib Dems need a swing of nearly 4% to take it but, if they are to
challenge Labour in the popular vote, should do so with ease. We may also now
hear from Ipswich and Kingswood. If the Tories win neither, then Cameron is
unlikely to be picking up the keys to No 10 later on Friday

2AM

Torbay is likely to be first to declare of a raft of Lib Dem-held seats in the
southwest which the Tories need to take. Look out also for Angus, a Tory target
against the SNP

AFTER 2AM

The pace of results will speed up and with it will come more clues to the likely
shape of the overall result. Can the Tories advance further in Wales (Cardiff
North, 2.30am)? Will "Cleggmania" produce significant Lib Dem gains from the
Tories (Eastbourne, 3am)? Can Labour frustrate a Tory overall majority (Bolton
North East/West, 3.30am)? At about 3am we will also learn the extent to which
voters in the safe Labour seat of Salford and Eccles have punished Hazel Blears
for her "flipping". The result of Jacqui Smith, her fellow former cabinet
minister who also had dubious expenses claims, in highly marginal Redditch is
not due until about 5am. More than 100 constituencies are not expecting a result
until 5am or later. Experience suggests such projections are often optimistic

FRIDAY DAYTIME

Among about two dozen seats that are not even starting to count until Friday
morning is Buckingham, where UKIP's Nigel Farage is up against John Bercow, the
Speaker. If the Commons arithmetic looks really tight, all Friday's results,
including potential Tory gains in Cheltenham, Warwick and Leamington, Lancaster
and Fleetwood, and Morecambe and Lunesdale, could be crucial

'' A CAMERON WIN COULD CREATE A PERFECT STORM FOR THE NATIONALISTS

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

SPORTS AGENDA

BYLINE: BY CHARLES SALE

LENGTH: 643 words


BREAKAWAY THREATIN PARACHUTE ROW

PRIVATE talks have taken place among Championship clubs about a breakaway from
the Football League following the decision of the lower divisions to reject the
Premier League package of parachute and solidarity payments worth 6400million
over three years.

Feelings are running so high that there is talk of taking up the offer, worth
648m in phased payments to relegated clubs and 64.6m a year to the rest of the
division, and splitting from the Football League in what would bring about a
Premier League Two in all but name. Championship clubs believe they cannot
afford to turn down the doubling of their solidarity cash from the Premier
League and still pursue realistic ambitions of reaching the top flight.

The Football League board voted 5-3 in favour of accepting the offer. Chairman
Greg Clarke, independent director Ian Ritchie and Championship representatives
David Sheepshanks, Karl Oyston and Keith Lamb were in support, with League Two
and Three's Lorraine Rogers, Peter Powell and Tony Kleanthous against.

The Football League have been given a take-it-or-leave-it deadline of May 14 by
the Premier League to sort out their internal conflict.

lROGER Draper, beleaguered chief executive of the LTA, is now shamelessly using
a small improvement in British girls' tennis to deflect attention from the Davis
Cup debacle of five successive defeats, including the latest to Lithuania.
Draper, who has no intention of resigning from his 6400,000-a-year contract that
runs until 2013, was speaking at the Golf and Tennis show at London's ExCel
yesterday. He trotted out statistics about the growth in grassroots tennis
participation and the promising performances among the girls and said he was
'quite happy with the progress being made'. Meanwhile, the latest LTA mystery is
how much John Lloyd was paid to keep quiet after his resignation as Davis Cup
captain by 'mutual consent'.

BOXING promoter Frank Maloney (right), standing for UKIP in Barking against BNP
leader Nick Griffin, is upset with the BBC for twice setting up interviews with
him and then cancelling. To make it worse for publicity-hungry Maloney, who
fronted UKIP's election broadcast, the BBC have conducted chats with his Labour,
Tory, Liberal Democrat, Christian Democrat and BNP rivals.

lTHERE will be a big brother presence like never before in the Olympic Park in
Stratford, with around 900 CCTV cameras and supporting systems being installed
in and around the 11-mile perimeter. London 2012 say the security measure, which
received planning consent last year, is essential to prevent and investigate
crimes.

DJ DIDDY'S SILENT NIGHT

FORMER Radio 1 DJ David 'Diddy' Hamilton, the match announcer at Craven Cottage
for the last 14 years, couldn't play his part in Fulham's Europa League
semi-final victory over Hamburg because his microphone didn't work.

Veteran broadcaster Hamilton couldn't get his mike fixed before kick-off on the
club's greatest night, nor get much sound out of the security box system. As a
result, he didn't call the famous goals or , even worse , introduce owner
Mohamed Al Fayed's pre-match walkabout.

'Diddy' has already endured being moved into the stands from his regular seat in
the fourth official's dug-out this year because Sky Sports complained it was
becoming too congested.

lTHE BBC's decision to start the penultimate session of snooker's World
Championship final at the Crucible in Sheffield an hour later at 3pm on Monday
is in danger of leading to the latest-ever finish to the tournament in the early
hours of Tuesday morning. The truncated session could mean frames will be
carried over into the evening climax, when up to 11 are already due to be played
from 8pm. A closely-fought match will mean the contest going well past the
finishing time of the 2006 and 2007 finals, which both took until almost 1am to
complete.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NOW LET'S BAN BURKA IN BRITAIN;
As Belgium outlaws veils...

BYLINE: EMILY HALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 240 words


BRITISH politicians were last night under mounting pressure to ban the burka.

Belgium has became the first European country to make the full-face veil illegal
and France is set to follow suit.

The UK Independence Party has already vowed to outlaw the "oppressive" clothing.

Now the leaders of the three main parties, Labour, the Tories and Lib Dems, are
being urged to do the same. UKIP's Nigel Farage, 46, said: "For once, Belgium
has actually done something right.

"We have campaigned on this issue long and hard. Burkas are a sign of a divided
country.

"They oppress women, are a potential security threat and have no place in modern
Britain."

Belgium's new law will come into force as soon as July. But politicians said it
should not be seen as an attack on Islam. Centre-Right MP Daniel Bacquelaine
said: "The idea that you can recognise people in the street is essential to
maintaining public order.

"It's also a question of human dignity. The full-face veil turns a woman into a
walking prison."

Women will be banned from covering their face in any public place, with a £110
fine for a first offence.

If they refuse to pay or are caught a second time they will be jailed for a
week, even though only 400 Belgians are thought to wear the outfit.

French President Nicolas Sarkozy, 55, has said the burka is "not welcome" on
French territory.

He added: "The burka is not a sign of religion, it is a sign of subservience."

emily.hall@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ILLEGAL: Woman in burka

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Agent put stamp duty top of the list for market reform;
Word on the street

BYLINE: Anna Tyzack

SECTION: PROPERTY;FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 594 words


An enormous UKIP board tied to a house in the village where my parents live in
Devon is the only indicator of the impending election. I'm certain that not all
the neighbours will be voting this way, so where are all the other signs? In the
past we used our houses and gardens to voice our political sway. It's strange
that people have gone all shy in a world of live political debate and rolling
election news coverage.

Of course, the trend hasn't died out completely. As I drove back to London last
Sunday I noted a better showing of banners in the fields beside the motorway.
"I've seen plenty of signs in fields but these are much more anonymous than a
window sticker," says Hugo Thistlethwayte of property finders Prime Purchase.

Perhaps if there were more housing market incentives in the election manifestos,
we'd be more inclined to festoon our houses? The Liberal Democrat's proposed
mansion tax - an annual 1pc charge on all homes worth more than £2m - is hardly
worth getting excited about and neither is Labour's plan to raise the stamp duty
level from 4pc to 5pc for houses worth more than £1m. The only schemes that
could have an immediate positive impact are Labour's stamp duty holiday for
properties under £250,000 and the Conservatives' plans to make this tax break
permanent.

So what exactly should politicians be proposing? When I asked a group of estate
agents to compile their own property market manifestos, reforming stamp duty was
their top priority. Liam Bailey of Knight Frank believes it's the most important
change a future government could introduce to help create liquidity in the
housing market. "To tax someone because they need to move home in order to take
a new job, to care for a relative, to accommodate a growing family or simply
because they want a nicer house, has, rather oddly, become accepted as normal,"
he says. In 1997, there were two rates for stamp duty - zero per cent and one
per cent.

Bailey believes stamp duty should be abolished - gradually, as it would be
unaffordable to do it overnight. James Greenwood of Stacks Property Search is
more cut-throat; he believes there should be a three-year stamp duty holiday. In
his manifesto there would also be a social housing scheme whereby owners had a
right to sell back to the council, who would in turn rent the properties to
those in financial difficulty, plus an overhaul of the planning system, pushing
further powers down to parish level.

Home Information Packs (Hips) were next up. Edward Church of Strutt & Parker
would remove the Energy Performance Certificate element. "It is a pointless
thing that serves no purpose," he says. Bailey, however, would scrap Hips
altogether.

Other measures these agents would introduce are a tax on unoccupied properties,
government-funded deposits for first-time buyers, VAT relief on repairs as well
as alterations on listed buildings and low interest rates for the foreseeable
future.

Admittedly, I don't have a banner in my window. It's a basement flat so that
would be pointless. But whoever takes power must recognise that there is a new
crisis brewing in the mortgage market. According to Bailey, mortgage
availability will drop by anything up to 25 per cent from 2011, when the banks
begin to pay back the £300bn they borrowed from the Government. It doesn't have
to spell catastrophe for the market, though; according to the Council of
Mortgage Lenders, with careful steps the lending market could be revived with
negligible cost for the taxpayer.

'To tax someone because they want to move has, oddly, been accepted as normal'

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Political parties are greener than ever - with one exception

BYLINE: Geoffrey Lean

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 267 words


It's pretty easy being green in this election: at least, it's a doddle compared
to being a diehard climate sceptic. Environmentalists are spoiled for choice,
with all the major parties running on their greenest ever manifestos.

Until recently, many planned to vote Tory for the first time, following David
Cameron's pioneering espousal of their favoured issues, but he has been notably
quiet about them in the campaign.

Labour has published a surprisingly detailed set of pledges, but it is the rise
of the Liberal Democrats that has really changed things; many environmentalists
will now be voting for the traditionally greenest party, believing that a hung
parliament would upturn political priorities in favour of their concerns.

Convinced sceptics, however, are bereft. All the major parties accept global
warming as an urgent threat and promise to create a "low-carbon economy" to
combat it. The Welsh and Scottish nationalists are even more eco-friendly than
the big three - and that's without mentioning the Greens.

Ukip has recently become more sceptical about climate change, but its main
policy is merely to set up a Royal Commission "that will allow scientists to
reach a conclusion about the facts and economic implications of global warming".

There is one party that does fully endorse the rejectionist case, speaking
dismissively of the "global warming theory", accusing climate scientists of
"fraud, deception and distortion", alleging that it is all a "hoax" created as
an excuse to raise taxes, and approvingly quoting prominent sceptics in its
literature.

But that party, sadly, is the BNP.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The 'rejectionist' party

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Heavyweights face off on the hustings

BYLINE: Hamish Macdonell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 757 words


THERE are not many seats in Scotland where the rival candidates get together a
dozen times in the campaign but that has already happened in the sprawling
Borders constituency of Berwickshire, Roxburgh and Selkirk.

"There is one thing we agree on," said Liberal Democrat candidate Michael Moore.
"We are looking forward to the end of the last hustings."

The candidates had their 12th and final hustings event on Thursday night in
Galashiels. These debates are vital in an area as big and rural as this one. The
candidates get to know each other  and their arguments  very well. But, like the
contest itself, the hustings have been generally good natured.

It was at one such event, however, that the thorny issue of money came up. The
other candidates felt that John Lamont, the Conservative candidate, had been
spending a lot of money, some of which, they felt, must have come from Lord
Ashcroft's personal fortune.

Mr Lamont insisted that his money was raised locally, mostly from coffee
mornings.

"What on earth do you charge to get in?" Ian Miller the Labour candidate asked,
to the amusement of the audience.

In the quiet village of Clovensford yesterday, Mr Lamont insisted he had not had
a penny from Lord Ashcroft's fund.

This Borders constituency has been the focus for a lot of Conservative
attention. It is one of their top target seats, they believe they can win it and
they know they really need it if they are to get a better return than the dismal
one seat they secured in Scotland at the last election.

One big danger for the Tories, however, could be from the "Nick Clegg bounce",
particularly in a straight Lib Dem-Tory battleground like this one.

Mr Lamont does not believe it is a problem and claims he has a good chance of
displacing Mr Moore, the incumbent.

"We are not detecting any Nick Clegg surge," said Mr Lamont.

"Our experiences on the doorsteps, and we have been out six or seven hours a
day, is that there is no such surge. We would have detected something had it
been there but it's not."

Mr Lamont believes the tight opinion polls nationally are helping his cause
because of the fear among some parts of the electorate that a vote for the
Liberal Democrats would let Labour back in.

Mr Lamont also feels his profile as the local MSP in the Scottish Parliament has
helped his cause.

That is one issue, however, that his opponents have been quick to exploit.

They have claimed that, with the arithmetic in both parliaments likely to be
very tight, there will be a conflict between them and Mr Lamont will be wanted
for important votes in both houses at the same time.

But Mr Lamont argued: "If you look at the diaries, there is only a period of
about 14 weeks between now and the Holyrood election when both parliaments are
sitting and with Westminster votes generally focused on the start of the week
and Holyrood votes in the middle and towards the end, I don't think there will
be much of a conflict, if any at all."

Mr Moore disagrees with Mr Lamont on this issue, believing that the Tory
candidate could not do both jobs well.

"We cannot afford to have someone who spends half the week in Edinburgh and half
the week in London," he said.

Mr Moore also believes there has been a big "Nick Clegg effect", not so much in
boosting the Lib Dem vote in the Borders but in hardening up the support which
might have started to waver.

"Nick Clegg's contribution was fortunate because it gave wavering Liberal
Democrat supporters the conviction they were backing the right party," he said.
"Voters who were starting to think about going elsewhere are now coming back to
us."

This is a heavyweight political battle because it is a fight between two
incumbent parliamentarians, Mr Moore at Westminster and Mr Lamont at Holyrood.

The difference is that Mr Moore won this seat at the general election in 2005
whereas Mr Lamont won a slightly different seat at the Holyrood election in
2007, a seat which was more favourable to the Tories than this one is now.

That will make it tougher for him to do the Holyrood-Westminster double,
particularly if the "Nick Clegg effect" does indeed do what Mr Moore suggests
and harden an already sizeable Liberal Democrat vote in the area.

BERWICKSHIRE, ROXBURGH & SELKIRK 2005 General Election: Turnout 63.3% SHARE OF
VOTE NUMBER OF VOTES CANDIDATE Michael Moore (Lib Dem) 18,993 41.9% John Lamont
(Con) 13,092 28.8% Sam Held (Lab) 7,206 15.9% Aileen Orr (SNP) 3,885 8.6% John
Hein (Liberal) 916 2.0% Graeme McIver (Scot Socialist) 695 1.5% Peter Neilson (
UKIP) 601 1.3% Majority 5,901 13% source: politics.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TV has crushed minnows

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 80 words


THE televised leaders' debates have been a great success, shifting the polls and
capturing the public imagination. But with such power should come some
responsibility. The treatment of the smaller parties has been unfair. Parties
such as UKIP have been put at a major disadvantage. The least the networks
should have done was to move straight into a subsidiary debate between smaller
parties rather than giving airtime to ministers and shadow ministers all
claiming their man had won.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 294 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Ukip man runs his campaign in France

BYLINE: Stephen Wilkie

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 117 words


AN anti-European candidate has come under fire for running his election campaign
from his holiday home in France.

Bill Wright, who is standing in the Dumfries and Galloway constituency for the
UK Independence Party, is renovating his second home and says he will not be
able to return until the eve of the election.

Speaking from his home in the Loire Valley, Mr Wright said: "This was all
planned and it was only at the last minute that the previous candidate dropped
out due to ill health and I was put forward."

The UKIP candidate, whose party's primary policy is to have Britain leave the
European Union, added: "If I had not had a previous commitment then I would have
campaigned as much as I could."

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

National: Campaign 2010: Inside story: How 'Bigotgate' revealed gulf between
people and the media: In Bolton, as in other former mill towns in north England,
unease over immigration is palpable. A good place to test the ripple effect of
Gillian Duffy. Report by Ian Jack

BYLINE: Ian Jack

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1308 words


Early on Thursday morning I felt that Gordon Brown was done for. Late on
Thursday evening I felt that, although he may well still be done for, it won't
be Gillian Duffy that has done for him.

I spent the intervening time in Bolton trying to test the theory that Brown's
private view of Duffy as "a sort of bigoted woman" demonstrated the gap between
the strength of public feeling about immigration and the extent to which the
respectable political classes are prepared to heed or address it. In fact,
"testing the theory" is too scientific a way of putting it; rather I went to the
Lancashire town to have the theory exemplified because I already believe it.

Over the last few years anyone who has canvassed for a political party or asked
questions as a reporter or pollster - or in many cases, including my own, simply
examined their own fears - all of us know that immigration causes an unease far
beyond the reflection it gets in the attitudes of the big political parties, and
that this neglect has fuelled support for Ukip and the BNP.

Nowhere is this unease stronger than in the old mill towns of Lancashire and
Yorkshire. As two of Bolton's three seats - Bolton West and Bolton North East -
are 114 and 115 on the target list of the 116 seats that the Conservatives need
for a majority, the political struggle there seemed a good place to note the
effects rippling out from Duffy in Rochdale.

I spent the first seven years of my life in Farnworth, which is really a Bolton
suburb, before my parents returned the family to Scotland; as Duffy grew up in
Lancashire around the same time, we must have similar memories of how things
were. Because I've returned very rarely, mine have been kept like a small
collection of photographic slides: the Sunday school "walking days" at Whitsun,
the smoking mill chimneys, the bottles of dandelion and burdock fetched from the
corner shop.

Of course, immigration is now being untangled from racism and can be debated
quite properly in terms of inadequate public provision, overcrowding and
unemployment. But mixed up in the statistical arguments are notions of the
changing national character; all nationalisms - and all national politics - draw
on the past, and anyone who denies the importance of memory is telling a lie.
What was it Duffy told her chasing gaggle of TV crews? "I love this country, I
always have done. I love Rochdale . . . you just get despondent."

In Bolton West, all three main parties have chosen female candidates (as have
the Greens) to contest the seat vacated by the former minister Ruth Kelly. None
was born or raised locally or even in Lancashire, although the Labour candidate
has lived nearby for 20 years.

This hardly matters. "Bolton West" suggests a dense and neighbourly street
pattern in one of cotton's great towns, when in fact it's a mixture of former
mining and railway settlements (Westhoughton and Horwich) and pleasant suburbs
and villages where a big house can cost £1.5m.

"The M61 corridor" would be a more telling constituency name. Many people
commute to Manchester from the new private housing estates - cramped trains and
jammed motorways are big issues - and many of them are incomers with no strong
connection to the area's past. Few, however, come from outside the UK. The other
Bolton constituencies have far higher proportions of voters with origins or
ancestry in India and Pakistan. In Bolton West they might number at most one in
20, mainly families who've prospered and moved west out of the city, while
migrants from eastern Europe are too few to signify.

Nonetheless, immigration is an important question on the doorstep. All three
candidates said it was up there with the economy as a problem that voters wanted
politicians to "do something about".

The Liberal Democrats' candidate, Jackie Pearcey, said Brown's reaction to Duffy
showed starkly that he didn't get out enough. "Anyone who's been on the
doorsteps knows that Mrs Duffy's questions are the things that people are most
worried about. We're in danger of a lost generation - parents and grandparents
worry about a future where their children can't repay student loans, can't find
a decent job and don't have a sniff of a chance at getting on the housing
ladder. Their concern about the knock-on effects of immigration is genuine and
it isn't racist - people of all kinds and colours are saying it," said Pearcey.

Tory candidate Susan Williams said she talked about "our capacity to deal with a
UK population of 70 million by 2020" but the fact was that immigration wasn't
the main plank of any of the parties. The Labour candidate, Julie Hilling, said
she reminded voters that this was a two-way process - as Brown told Duffy, there
are as many Britons in mainland Europe as mainland Europeans in Britain - and
that in any case many of the eastern Europeans had returned home.

Each candidate claimed that voters saw merit in each party's solutions: Brown's
point system, David Cameron's cap, even the Lib Dems' policy of amnesty for
people living here illegally and the routing of migrants to places where they
where needed ("Not London and the south-east, that's too crowded", Pearcey said.
Where then? Lancashire? "There will be some parts of the country that need
them.")

To judge from these and several other conversations in Bolton, immigration
certainly matters and, when the spending cuts come, may matter even more. But
had Brown's remark to Duffy damaged him beyond salvation by revealing him as a
condescending liberal? Williams said a couple of postal voters had called her
office to say the event had turned them into Tories. Otherwise, evidence was
hard to find.

Some people sympathised with him. Others wondered, not unkindly, if Duffy knew
at first what the word "bigoted" meant. In the Three Crowns pub I spoke to a
retired firefighter who'd long since stopped voting Labour. "My only reaction
was: Oh dear! That's exactly how I felt for him. It was just one of those
things, and at least he was big enough to go back to the woman's house and
apologise."

In the Barristers' Arms, two young men were having pints. "No, it hasn't
affected my opinion of him, not a bit," one said. "It could happen to any of
us," said the other. The last was a general feeling, and much more amenable than
the media coverage to the idea of hypocrisy as a routine human failing. Andrew
Greaves, political correspondent of the Bolton News, thought it would have no
effect in Bolton at all. "I mean, it's the sort of thing we can all imagine
doing. It may strike horror in the home counties but we're more real about life
up here."

On my way to and from Bolton I reread my battered copy of a prewar Penguin
entitled Britain by Mass-Observation, the earliest published work of the
movement founded by amateur sociologists Tom Harrisson and Charles Madge, who
encouraged diarists and unpaid "observers" to record the behaviour and thoughts
of everyday life.

Long before focus groups, they were warning about the difference between the
public mood in all its complexity and what newspapers asserted to be the public
mood in its beautiful simplicity. "Worktown" appears often as the location of
the testimony. In reality, Worktown was Bolton.

During the Munich crisis in 1938, one of Mass Observation's correspondents spoke
to a Bolton van driver about Hitler. "You can't talk to some fellows and say you
like Hitler," said the driver, "but somehow I have a sneaky regard for him.
There must be some good in it, 'cause I've never heard any good word about him
in any paper."

Naturally, I don't go all the way with the analogy, but as the politics-media
nexus grows ever more oppressive, it may well be that ornery van drivers in
Bolton are commoner now.

Captions:

Immigration is an poll issue in Bolton, where the English Defence League held a
protest in March, below Photograph: Christopher Thomond for the Guardian

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

National: Campaign 2010: On the ground: Coming home to a different country

BYLINE: Gary Younge, Bromsgrove

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1492 words


I need a pin for my chip. When I left this country they swiped credit cards and
let you sign. In the US, where I live now, they still do. Here I find myself in
standoffs with waiters.

"I haven't got a pin number," I say. "But it is a credit card. And the food's
eaten already." Things usually work out. But not without a grimace.

Increasingly when I return to Britain - I moved to New York in 2003 - I find
myself disoriented. I'm not here to see things change; I just come back to find
they are different.

Watching the election unfold this week felt like that. The erosion of trust
between people and the political class, which was well underway when I left
shortly before the Iraq war, now seems to be complete.

Travelling around the country I have yet to see anyone wearing a badge or a
sticker, or a house with a poster in the window. That's not to say none exists.
But in the street I grew up in, in Stevenage, there once would have been
several; last weekend there weren't any. It's as if people don't want to be
associated with them.

So, far from being a moment of national civic engagement, this election feels
completely passive. It used to be something that happened in the country; now it
seems to take place primarily in the media. People aren't so much participating
in it as watching it all play out on television - it's literally a spectacle.

That was one of the extraordinary things about Gillian Duffy's encounter with
Gordon Brown. Neighbours said she usually put up Labour posters, but had not
this time. She seemed to come in contact with the election by accident on her
way to the shops, and, like Dorothy stumbling from Kansas to Oz, her interaction
with it moved her from black and white to Technicolor.

This has produced a paradox. The media are excited. It may be a spectacle, but
it's an engaging one. For the first time since 1992 nobody knows what the
outcome will be. Huge numbers have tuned into the debates and there's been a
steep increase in postal votes and registration - particularly among the young.

On the other hand, voters seem more angry and alienated than ever. Almost every
day that the leaders engage with the public they receive a tongue lashing. A
young woman challenged Clegg over apprenticeships; a father buttonholed Cameron
over his disabled child's access to mainstream education. These aren't hecklers
or protesters. They are unorganised and atomised, not arguing but venting. The
contempt that Brown showed for Duffy is mutual, open and widespread.

So what has the potential to be the most exciting moment in our electoral
history is emerging from one of the most tawdry and depressing periods in our
political culture. For now, thanks to Labour's slump and the Liberal Democrat
resurgence, unknown voters, a disproportional voting system, three-way ties and
local outliers - Greens in Brighton, BNP in Dagenham, Ukip everywhere - the
situation is not only unpredictable, it's positively volatile.

When I left Britain I thought people should have been angrier than they were;
now they are angrier than I thought they could be. This was patently clear in
Bromsgrove, Worcestershire, where public outrage forced the Conservative MP July
Kirkbride to resign after she was caught double-dipping on her mortgage.

"The Tories go on about benefit fraud and catching benefit cheats and are caught
stealing tens of thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money," said Mark France, who
ran the campaign to oust Kirkbride and is now an independent candidate. "The
extent of this, contrasted with the impact of the recession, felt like the last
straw."

Apart from a hiatus under Labour in 1973, Bromsgrove has been Tory since 1950.
Kirkbride, who had been popular, won in 2005 with 51% of the vote and a 10,080
majority. It was about as safe as a Tory seat could get.

This time the Tories are having to work hard for it. An independent Conservative
is standing against the official candidate, Sajid Javid. Add Ukip, the British
National party, an increasingly confident Liberal Democrat party and other
independents into the mix and, while the Tories remain the favourites, the
result is anything but assured. Labour is losing votes to the BNP; the Tories
are losing votes to Ukip; and the Liberal Democrats are picking up votes
everywhere. With the electorate so fragmented, whoever wins could end up with
around a third of the popular vote.

Toxic profession

"People are angry really," says the Ukip candidate, Steven Morson. "Not at the
expenses. They were last June. They were incredibly angry. But now they don't
seem to be that keen on the fact that the Conservative candidate comes from
outside the constituency or, shall we, say is associated with the banking
industry."

Javid is more than just associated with banking. He was the youngest
vice-president of Chase Manhattan Bank and then Deutsche Bank's Singapore-based
head of global credit trading in Asia. A few years ago that would have been
impressive. In this climate it's so toxic his campaign leaflet does not name his
profession.

Whether Javid's greatest challenge is that he's a banker or a Muslim is
difficult to fathom. His candidacy sparked a rumour that Bromsgrove's
Conservative district council and the Muslim Council of Britain have a secret
plan to build a mosque in town.

This seems unlikely for three main reasons. First, according to the census, only
0.25% of Bromsgrove is Muslim and the handful I met in the town had never heard
of the plan. Second, the Muslim Council of Britain says no such plan exists.
Third, Bromsgrove council has never heard of the plan either.

Nonetheless the BNP candidate, Elizabeth Wainwright, is making opposition to the
"mosque" central to her campaign. The BNP took out an advert in the local paper
promising to "oppose and campaign against any rumoured mosques being built".
This advert against the "rumoured mosque"was the source of the rumour.

"I think that's where it emanated from," says the council leader, Roger
Hollingworth. "It's absolutely ludicrous and disgraceful. They just made it up
to frighten people."

Now questions about the mosque come up on the doorstep. A Facebook site opposing
it has 675 "friends". Fitting really, a virtual campaign against a phantom
menace.

Cynicism abounds

Living in America, the fact that such tactics can work no longer surprises me.
But I never thought I'd see a version of the tea party so faithfully replicated
in the Midlands. Rumours like these can only flourish in a vacuum. They thrive
in the dislocation between elections, the selection of personnel; politics, the
promotion of agendas; and power, the means by which those agendas are enacted.
In a truly democratic system there is a causal connection between what you want,
whom you vote for and what they do. Where that connection is broken cynicism
abounds.

Most of the election conversations I hear are not about whom people would most
like to vote in but whom they would most like to keep out. No longer are they
being advised to wear a clothes peg on their nose to avoid the unfortunate
odours emanating from the party they'll vote for, but to take the peg off so
they can remind themselves just how bad the stench is on the opposing side.

For all the excitement about who will win, it is generally agreed the outcome in
terms of people's lives will be fairly similar regardless. This is not
particularly news to me, either. What seems different are the stakes involved
regarding what comes next.

According to the Institute for Fiscal Studies we face austerity measures that
will see massive attacks on public services and swingeing cuts in public sector
jobs. The Conservatives would deliver the harshest cuts since the second world
war; Labour the Liberal Democrats the deepest cuts since the seventies. the
difference between the parties is a difference in scale and pace underpinned by
a consensus in direction. As events in Greece, Spain and Portugal have shown
this week it won't be the voters or the politicians who decide the extent of
these cuts, but the markets.

A Financial Times/Harris poll last week found the country divided about cuts,
with only half agreeing the public sector should be cut back. But the
overwhelming majority, two-thirds, think they will happen regardless of which
party is in office.

This is an election about who wins, not what changes. People may want new
politics but what they're going to get is a new government with a different mix
of parties and maybe a different electoral system.

Back in Stevenage I sat in a beer garden for a few hours with old school friends
last Saturday and talked about everything: kids, school, relationships, deaths,
old times and aspirations. We talked about why some of us went to university and
others would never leave town. We talked about things that mattered. And the
election never came up.

Captions:

Defaced billboards have been a theme of the election on the ground. Few voters
are displaying posters at home

Tory candidate Sajid Javid: international banker

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday

Work: Vote winners? How the main parties' other work policies could affect you

SECTION: GUARDIAN WORK PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 638 words


WORK-LIFE BALANCE

Labour

* Extend paid paternity leave to four weeks (from existing two)

* Proposal to share paid maternity leave allowance between parents

* Right to flexible working for older people who need to look after
grandchildren

* End default retirement age at 65 (no specific target age set)

Conservative

* Extend right to request flexible working to those in the public sector and to
every parent with a child under the age of 18 (currently the limit is 16)

* Proposal to share paid parental leave allowance between parents

* Raise default retirement age to 66

Liberal Democrat

* Extend paid parental leave to a total of one and a half years ("when economic
circumstances allow"), then allow both parents to share allocation however it
suits them best

* Extend right to request flexible working to all employees, not just parents
and carers

* End default retirement age

Green

* Efforts would begin to implement a 35-hour working week, to improve people's
work-life balance and to help to share out jobs

* Greater emphasis on equality in the workplace, reducing the pay gap between
men and women

* Parental leave for new parents would be extended

UKIP

No policies declared

JOBS AND TRAINING

Labour

* Support business and industry to create 1m more skilled jobs.

* Create 200,000 more jobs for the young unemployed

* Guarantee of education or training for all up to age of 18

* Expand advanced apprenticeships to 70,000 places a year

* Skills Accounts for workers to upgrade their skills

* Expand paid internships to help those from low-income families to enter
professions such as media or law

Conservative

* Annual limit on the number of non-EU workers admitted to the UK

* Scrap Train to Gain incentive for businesses

* Create 20,000 additional Young Apprenticeships

* Create 400,000 work pairing, apprenticeship, college and training places over
two years

* Give SMEs a £2,000 bonus for every apprentice they hire

Liberal Democrat

* Work placement scheme with up to 800,000 places to train young unemployed
people. Participants paid £55 a week for up to three months

* Fully fund costs of adult apprenticeships

* Scrap arbitrary targets for vocational training, higher education and
apprenticeships, focusing efforts instead on a balance of all three.

* Scrap Train to Gain incentive for businesses

Green

* Create 1m extra jobs. Training places would be created for occupations such as
carers, midwives, plumbers, builders, engineers and public transport workers

* Cuts to budgets and jobs in the public sector opposed, in an effort to
accelerate the economic recovery

UKIP

* Reduce public sector "to the size it was in 1997", diverting 2m jobs to
manufacturing and industry

* Create 1m new skilled jobs in defence, energy, flood protection, transport and
prison building

* Leave EU and award only temporary work visas, using points-based system

* Phase out employers' national insurance over a five-year period

* Enhance programmes for those not in education, employment or training, "to
overcome anti-work attitudes"

EARNINGS

Labour

* Raise minimum wage in line with earnings

* Cap public sector pay rises at 1% for one year

* Restore link between basic state pension and earnings from 2012

Conservative

* Scrap increase in national insurance for employers and workers earning less
than £35,000.

* Freeze public sector pay for one year

Liberal Democrat

* Cap public sector pay rises at £400 for two years

* Restore link between basic state pension and earnings

* Raise tax-free threshold on income to £10,000

Green

* A "living wage" of £8.10 an hour to be introduced, compared with the current
minimum wage of £5.80 an hour

* All earnings more than £100,000 subject to upper 50p rate of income tax,
rather than current threshold of £150,000

UKIP

* Raise tax-free threshold on income to £11,500, followed by a flat rate of 31%
to replace current income tax and national insurance

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Balls takes on rivals as he fights to avoid a 'Portillo moment';
'Independent' soapbox debate puts PM's protegé on the spot

BYLINE: Kevin Rawlinson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 783 words


Having to debate immigration with a BNP candidate in front of an animated crowd
in a West Yorkshire town was probably not where Ed Balls had planned to be on
the Friday before polling day.

But there is an expectation in Westminster that the Prime Minister's protege,
and closest Cabinet colleague, will jockey to replace him as Labour's next
leader, if Gordon Brown stands down after the general election. Yesterday he
declined to rule himself out of the running.

But to get there Mr Balls has a more prosaic challenge: avoid defeat to the
Tories, who seek to "decapitate" Labour by removing him in what would be the
2010 election's "Portillo moment". He insists he is not having sleepless nights
and that he has been prepared all along for a photo finish. "There was a
different situation with Michael Portillo," he insisted. "Everybody thought he
was going to win his seat back in the 1997 election, including, I believe,
Michael himself. So it was a surprise that he did not.

"I knew when the boundary changes were announced, that it was going to be a
fight, so there is no complacency."

He would have been left without any doubt about the scale of the battle after
yesterday's high-profile public hustings in the new and marginal seat of Morley
and Outwood - the most spirited fixture so far on The Independent's soapbox
debate tour of Britain.

The Yorkshire market town of Morley, with a population of 50,000, is said by
locals to have been built on seven hills, like Rome. An at-times-choleric crowd
of about 250 people participated in a heated exchange between the five
parliamentary candidates, with television satellite trucks and foreign newspaper
reporters in attendance.

There were banners demanding jobs for British workers and also a vocal
contingent of far-right activists supporting the British National Party
candidate, Chris Beverley, who was born in the town and is already a Leeds City
councillor.

Mr Balls acknowledged the concerns about immigration voiced by a certain
Rochdale pensioner to Gordon Brown this week, and went so far as to say: "I have
seen the film and I have read the transcript and I think that Gillian Duffy was
quite right in what she was saying."

He said immigration was a valid concern: "Immigration is an issue here in Morley
but it is never good to see the BNP out on the streets. They are a scar on the
community." There were claps and cheers in support, while others booed and held
aloft BNP posters.

"I see your BNP signs," said Mr Balls. "The idea that you said, as the BNP do in
their extremism, that if you are British, if you were born in our country, if
you fought abroad in our armed forces, if you've got a part colour of skin, if
you're black, you're second class and you shouldn't be able to be in the queue
for housing, or you shouldn't be able to play football for England abroad in the
World Cup - I think that racism and intolerance is extreme, it is foul and not
British at all."

Mr Balls's Tory rival for Parliament, Antony Calvert, whose campaign has been
bolstered by the visits of David Cameron, said: "We [in Morley] don't have BNP
councillors because people are racist but because they have lost faith in the
system."

Earlier in the campaign Mr Calvert spoke of his hope of "castrating" Labour by
removing Mr Balls, and the two men's antagonism boiled over when Mr Balls
attempted to unsettle his fellow candidate while he was speaking, leaning over
and whispering "shameful, shameful" into his ear.

Mr Calvert turned on him: "Simply raising the question is not shameful."

Mr Balls was also seen to whisper "you need to calm down, you're doing yourself
no favours", after the Tory candidate delivered a particularly impassioned
answer. Mr Calvert muttered back: "Calm down? I'm trying to win an election,
mate." He later brushed off the incident: "I have played cricket, I can handle a
little sledging."

As dissent swelled, one angry voter leant over and offered Mr Balls a £10 note,
saying: "Just take it now, it would be easier."

The candidates, who also included the Liberal Democrats' James Monaghan and
Ukip's David Daniel, said it was the area's first public husting in 20 years. Mr
Balls's old Normanton seat was abolished and he defends a notional majority of
8,669 in Morley and Outwood. The Tories require a 10.47 per cent swing from
Labour to win.

In an interview with The Independent afterwards, Mr Balls was asked if he would
rule himself out of a Labour leadership contest after the election. He replied:
"I have always said that if I said I was ruling myself out, people would not
believe me, and if I said I was ruling myself in, people would not believe me
either. It is not my burning passion, I care about winning the election."

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 294 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              May 1, 2010 Saturday
                                 1 Star Edition

YOUR DEBATE VERDICT;
MIRROR READERS HAVE THEIR SAY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 493 words


THE PENSIONER

Bob Henderson, 69

LIVES: Cramlington, Northumberland

SAYS: Mr Cameron was the most polished. Mr Clegg was less sure of himself and
shaky on immigration. Mr Brown looked tired.

I like the idea of being forced to take a job after six months on the dole,
controlling the bankers and giving the power back to teachers I'm still
undecided but veering towards UKIP.

THE STUDENT

David Hickling, 21

LIVES: Beverley, East Yorks

SAYS: Brown made some good points on the need to protect the economy and public
services. The way Cameron compared the UK to Greece and was scaremongering over
a hung parliament was a bit desperate.

He and Clegg treated the debates as party politicals. I think Brown won and I'm
more worried about a Tory government.

THE NURSE

Linda Hobson, 39

LIVES: Newcastle upon Tyne

SAYS: It was the best debate of the three. The shine is definitely coming off
Nick Clegg. On housing he was really stumped.

I worry about what Cameron was saying - taking pounds 6billion out of the
economy, a public sector pay freeze, his plans for school buildings. Brown won
on substance, he's solid.

THE SHOPKEEPER

Ralph Patel, 55

LIVES: Woodmansterne, Surrey

SAYS: I was disappointed. The debates have been more about having a dig at each
other than outlining policy. The questions were not really answered.

None of them know what they will do about immigration.

I thought Cameron won.

Brown did well too but he has a history, which is a disadvantage. Overall, I am
leaning towards the Conservatives.

THE TEACHER

Paula Roe, 53

LIVES: Stourbridge, West Midlands

SAYS: I didn't like Cameron. His answers may impress the City but not me as a
public sector worker.

It was a solid, forceful performance from Brown. He stuck to the issues and put
people's jobs at the forefront.

He listed all the questions Cameron failed to answer and made it clear that the
Conservatives help the rich.

THE MARRIED MUM

Suzanne Simmons Lewis, 38

LIVES: Enfield, North London

SAYS: I didn't think Gordon Brown did as well as the others.

We got to hear a lot more of the others' policies but Brown sounded a bit
desperate.

Cameron's a bit smarmy, but I think Clegg won. I will still be voting for Labour
though.

UNEMPLOYED

Paul Barnard, 23

LIVES: Sale, South Manchester

SAYS: Brown was the strongest by far. The other two just talk around the same
things and were wishy-washy.

Brown was clearer on policy. I liked it when he pushed Cameron on inheritance
tax and stopping child tax credits, not that he got any answers.

Clegg was weak on immigration I was a floating voter but have been swayed by
Brown in the debates. He is more trustworthy and credible than the others.

THE SINGLE MUM

Jean Molloy, 44

LIVES: Rochester, Kent

SAYS: I didn't think any of them won. It was good to see housing come up but
none of them addressed the basic problem - that house prices and income are out
of sync. I found it quite repetitive.

I am still undecided, but the fact that the Lib Dems could be a force in
parliament might sway me.

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
