
                               1 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

£5m benefits for disabled migrants who flew home

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 555 words


MILLIONS of pounds of taxpayers' money is being spent supporting disabled
Eastern European migrants who have returned home.

More than £5million was sent abroad last year to 2,000 claimants who still get
Disability Living Allowance even though they have left the country.

The benefit, worth up to £6,305 a year, is to pay for carers and the added
expense of getting around for people who are disabled, have diffi-culties
walking or are mentally ill.

Some 2,000 claimants who have returned to Eastern Europe and other EU states
will continue to receive up to £121.25 a week after a European Court ruled that
the Government must keeping paying.

Unacceptable Last night there was anger that hard-working families were being
forced to support migrants.

Conservative MP Philip Davies said: "This is utterly unacceptable. The people of
this country understand we all have to take our fair share of public spending
cuts but they cannot understand why people from abroad are allowed to continue
to milk the system."

UKIP Euro-MP David Campbell Bannerman said: "We know there is a huge amount of
fraud in the system which the Government is trying to deal with. But the only
people free from accountability are those, mostly former migrants, who have left
these shores and receive these benefits abroad."

Matthew Elliott, from the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "Taxpayers will be fuming
that we're forking out for migrants who are back in their own countries. If they
have returned then they are the responsibility of their home countries."

All the 3.1 million Britons claiming the allowance face new medical checks under
proposals announced in the Budget last week. But the Department of Work and
Pensions has been unable to tell the Daily Express how they will scrutinise
claims from people abroad.

A department insider said: "The Government tried to fight it but they were
over-ruled by Europe. There is nothing we can do about it. There are about 2,000
receiving disability living allowance who have returned to their country."

The European Court of Justice ruled that the Government must pay the benefit to
anyone who quali-fied, no matter where they now live.

Current rules say claimants must pay national insurance contributions for a
"qualifying period" of two years before they can "export" these benefits.

Petra Boublikova, 35, is still receiving more than £100 a week in disability
allowance despite returning to her native Czech Republic more than two years
ago.

The mother of one applied for the benefit shortly after arriving in Britain in
2005, the year the labour market was opened up to the Czech Republic. Poland,
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary and Slovenia as they joined the
EU.

Ms Boublikova, who has rheumatoid arthritis, qualified for the allowance at the
end of 2007 and returned to Prague soon afterwards.

She said she could claim from the Czech government but would not as "it wouldn't
be nearly so much as the British money".

The Prague psychotherapist says she will get the British handout for two years
and must only send a doctor's letter to confirm her condition. Last night a
Department of Work and Pensions spokesman said: "The overwhelming majority of
these payments go to British pensioners who have retired within the EU, after a
lifetime of paying National Insurance contributions and taxes."

OpiniOn: page 12

LOAD-DATE: June 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Eastern Europeans arriving in Britain can qualify for disability pay in
two years and then collect benefits back home
Picture: ROSIE HALLAM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 29, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Liberal Democrat popularity sinks to 18% in wake of austerity Budget

BYLINE: Nigel Morris Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 418 words


Support for the Liberal Democrats has tumbled sharply since George Osborne set
out the coalition Government's austerity budget, an opinion poll for The
Independent suggests today.

The ComRes survey shows the number of voters backing Nick Clegg's party at a
post-election low of 18 per cent. However, the Budget appears to have boosted
support for the Conservatives, who stand on 40 per cent - a rise of four
percentage points since ComRes carried out a similar poll for The Independent On
Sunday on 20 June. Labour are up one point at 31 per cent, while the Liberal
Democrats are down five points. "Other" parties are unchanged on 11 per cent -
including 3 per cent for the UK Independence Party and 2 per cent for the Green
Party.

Some Liberal Democrat MPs fear their party is being used to provide cover for
Tory-led plans to raise taxes and cut spending in the drive to reduce the huge
deficit. Two of them, Bob Russell and Mike Hancock, even voted against the
Budget last night.

Concerned Liberal Democrats will point to today's finding that only 68 per cent
of people who voted for the party in the general election in May said they would
do so again. These voters are more likely to defect to Labour than the Tories,
the ComRes survey found.

The Conservatives will be relieved that they still seem to be enjoying a
post-electoral honeymoon with voters despite the grim economic medicine being
handed out by the coalition.

Indeed, repeated in a general election, the level of support for the parties
would give David Cameron a narrow overall majority of 12 in the Commons. The
party now has 49 per cent support among the over-65s and is ahead of Labour in
every age group apart from 18 to 24 year olds. It has achieved a marked increase
in support among 25 to 34 year olds, chiefly at the expense of the Liberal
Democrats.

The poor Lib Dem showing is in line with two weekend polls that put Nick Clegg's
party on 16 per cent, compared with the 23 per cent it achieved at the general
election. Mr Clegg's support seems to have been hit by the decision to raise VAT
to 20 per cent in January - just seven weeks after he told voters that he
vigorously opposed the policy.

Mr Clegg will come under pressure at the Liberal Democrat conference in
September to reassure delegates that the party's identity is not being subsumed
in the coalition.

ComRes telephoned a random sample of 1,003 British adults on 25-27 June, with
data weighted demographically and by past vote. ComRes is a member of the
British Polling Council.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 28, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lord Laing of Dunphail;
Businessman who drove the relentless expansion of United Biscuits and became
Tory Party treasurer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1460 words


LORD LAING OF DUNPHAIL, who died on June 21 aged 87, was chairman and life
president of United Biscuits, and treasurer of the Conservative Party.

Hector Laing was a charismatic and mercurial business leader who ran the United
Biscuits conglomerate in the paternalistic style of the family company it had
been for two generations before him. As chairman from 1972 to 1990, he presided
over a period of relentless expansion which gave him a 50 per cent share of the
British biscuit market as well as a portfolio of other food products ranging
from salted peanuts to frozen prawns.

Laing could be a flamboyant competitor: offered a rival company's cheese
biscuits at a City lunch, he left the table and threw them out of the window.
But he was also a caring employer, who took the trouble to talk to as many as
possible of his 46,000 workforce in annual factory-floor meetings and - despite
inevitable redundancies as consumer tastes changed and foreign competition
arrived - offered loyal staff an unusual degree of job security: 10 years'
service with United Biscuits virtually guaranteed a job for life.

He disapproved of many of the corporate trends of the 1980s, including what he
saw as the unpatriotic willingness of institutional shareholders to accept
offers from hostile foreign bidders for British companies. His own takeovers
were generally amicable, and he was never an asset stripper - so it was
particularly galling for him to be defeated by Lord Hanson, arch-exponent of
that technique, in a 1986 bid battle for Imperial, the brewing and tobacco
group, from which Hanson reaped giant profits.

Laing was also wary of banks that were prepared to intervene on the bidder's
side against companies that had formerly been their clients - a facet of the
influence of American investment banks in the post-Big Bang City. He made a
point of seeking assurances from Royal Bank of Scotland, which had lent his
grandfather the money to acquire the family's stake in United Biscuits'
predecessor, that it would never act against him.

Laing's wider belief in what came to be known as corporate social responsibility
was expressed through his chairmanship from 1987 to 1991 of Business in the
Community, and in his role as co-founder in 1986 of the Per Cent Club, which
encouraged public companies to give one per cent of their profits to good
causes.

If he was out of tune with the mood of the 1980s in his business philosophy, he
was nevertheless an ardent industrial moderniser. He once said that his biggest
mistake was to have focused too much on marketing and acquisitions in the middle
years of his chairmanship, and not enough on the efficiency of his factories.
Though he could be maddening to work for, he generated enormous loyalty and
admiration: his own chief executive once described him, in a carefully chosen
phrase, as "the sort of man people would die for 90 per cent of the time".

Hector Laing was born in Edinburgh on May 12 1923. He was a grandson of
Alexander Grant, inventor of that staple of the British elevenses, the digestive
biscuit. As a young baker from Forres in Morayshire, Grant had had the temerity
to present himself at the bakery of Robert McVitie in Queensferry Street,
Edinburgh, in 1887 and ask for a job. Told that there were no vacancies, he
picked up a scone, examined it closely, and announced: "Ye canna mak' scones in
Edinburgh." McVitie relented and took him on.

In 1910 Grant succeeded as managing director of what had grown, as McVitie &
Price, to be a national manufacturer. Rich Tea biscuits were produced to satisfy
refined English tastes - the Scots liked a coarser bite - while Grant himself
guarded the secret recipe for the hugely popular digestive. In 1922 Grant's
daughter Margaret married Hector Laing senior who, having been taken into the
business, was made to work a shift on the morning of his wedding.

Their son Hector - a page at the 1937 Coronation - recalled being allowed as a
small boy to cut out oatcakes at the factory before he went to school. He was
educated at Loretto, but having been a rebellious pupil he surprised himself by
doing well enough to win a place at Cambridge. By his own account, he was so
surprised that he uttered the word "Jesus", to which his headmaster replied that
Jesus College would indeed be very suitable for him.

He spent a year there studying Agriculture before war service intervened. He was
commissioned in the Scots Guards, joining the armoured 3rd Battalion, whose
subalterns included Robert Runcie, later Archbishop of Canterbury, the future
Home Secretary William Whitelaw and a rollcall of pillars-to-be of the Scottish
establishment. Laing's tank squadron landed in Normandy and fought all the way
across north-west Europe: he was mentioned in despatches, awarded the US Bronze
Star and promoted to captain.

Demobilised in 1947, Laing returned to become a director of McVitie & Price,
which shortly merged with Macfarlane Lang to form the foundation of United
Biscuits. He gained experience in several factories and, although never one to
engage closely with technical detail, developed an expertise in automated
production during a long spell as manager of the group's giant plant at
Harlesden in west London.

He became managing director in 1964, and was a driving force in United Biscuits'
continuing expansion. Other Scottish bakeries, including William Crawford of
Tartan shortbread fame, joined in the early 1960s. New members of the group in
the 1970s included Keebler, an American manufacturer of "cookies and crackers"
almost as big as United Biscuits itself; Carr's of Carlisle, inventors of the
water biscuit; and the chocolate maker Terry's of York.

The Wimpy and Pizzaland fast-food outlets proved less successful additions, and
were eventually sold again. The acquisition in 1988 of the frozen seafoods group
Ross Young was also seen as a diversification too far, and in the last years of
Laing's reign the need for rationalisation was pressing. But his enthusiasm for
new markets was undimmed. One of his last gambits was a joint venture in China,
and in an interview shortly before his retirement he said that the sound of a
billion Chinese mouths munching digestives would allow him to die happy.

Laing was also a longserving member of the Court of the Bank of England, where
he had a reputation for rarely reading the board papers before meetings. He was
a director of Allied Lyons and of Exxon, the US oil company; chairman of the
Food & Drink Industries Council; and president of the European Catering
Association. He was knighted in 1978.

At the request of Robert Runcie, he was chairman from 1983 to 1997 of the
Lambeth Fund, which supports the Archbishop of Canterbury's office and ministry.
Loyalty to other wartime comrades extended to finding jobs for several of his
tank crew (one of them was his company driver), giving them shares in United
Biscuits - and in some cases even paying their poll tax, a levy which he
regarded as unfair despite his high regard for Margaret Thatcher.

His distaste for the harsher manifestations of Thatcherism did not impede a warm
personal friendship with the prime minister which extended to the offer of his
private plane to help find her son Mark when he went missing in the Sahara
during a car rally. The Thatchers also occasionally holidayed at Dunphail, the
Morayshire estate that Laing had inherited from his grandfather. United Biscuits
became a major donor to Tory coffers, and in 1988 Laing became party treasurer,
a role he fulfilled until 1993.

Though created a life peer in 1991, Laing was happy to leave policy debate to
professional politicians. But in May 2004 he was one of five Tory peers who
signed a letter urging Conservatives to vote for Ukip in the imminent European
election. The other four were immediately expelled by the then party leader,
Michael Howard, but Laing announced that "on reflection" he should not have
signed, and was allowed to keep the Tory whip.

Laing held a pilot's licence and created an aviation subsidiary of United
Biscuits, based at Denham airfield near his home at Gerrards Cross in
Buckinghamshire. His managers were encouraged to use company aircraft for
factory visits, at the risk of being stranded if the pilot had to divert to pick
up a member of the chairman's family; a more hair-raising option was to be flown
by the chairman himself. In later years he devoted himself to the less dangerous
pastime of tending his splendid gardens at Gerrards Cross and Dunphail.

A devout churchman, Laing declared that "I believe one has a personal
relationship with God", but he declined to intellectualise his faith: "I leave
that to the theologians."

Hector Laing married, in 1950, Marian Laurie, daughter of Major-General Sir John
Laurie, 6th Bt. They had three sons.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Laing: he threw a rival company's biscuits out of the window
REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 28, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU ban on sale of eggs by dozen

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 222 words


SHOPPERS will be banned from buying eggs by the dozen under "bonkers" new rules
approved by barmy Euro MEPs.

The European Parliament last week tore up Britain's exemption from EU
regulations forbidding the selling of goods by number.

New rules next year mean that instead of labelling on an egg box listing the
numbers, it will have to carry their weight in grams.

The same rules apply to packs of bacon, apples, bags of bread rolls and other
products traditionally sold by quantity.

The UK appears to be on a collision course with Brussels over it.

The rule could cost retailers millions of pounds in changes to packaging and
labelling, as well as weighing food before it is put on the shelf. Hard-pressed
shoppers are likely to foot the cost in higher bills. Environment Secretary
Caroline Spelman said: "Customers want to buy eggs by the dozen and they should
be allowed to - a point I shall be making clear to European partners."

Paul Nuttall, UKIP chairman who is on the European parliament's environment
committee, said he would be directing his MEPs to vote against the new rules.

He said: "They are bonkers. When the French stop selling their wine by the case
we'll be happy to stop selling eggs by the dozen."

The British Retail Consortium, which represents 90 per cent of UK shops, said it
will urge ministers to press for a reversal.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP official Paul Nuttall

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 28, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Party poopers should recall election manifestos;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 55 words


WHAT a mean-spirited man letter writer Patrick Thomas seems to be. Of course,
the BNP and UKIP should be invited to Palace garden parties. Their manifestos
were the only ones which stated the wishes of ordinary people.

They were bringing our troops home, leaving the EU and dealing firmly with
immigration.

Name and address supplied

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 June 27, 2010
                                 First Edition

Something old, something new .... One way or another, she got me;
Blondie performing for picnickers in the Cotswolds might seem unlikely, but
somehow it works Rock Blondie Westonbirt Arboretum GLOUCESTERSHIRE Kele Digital
BRIGHTON

BYLINE: Simon Price

SECTION: ARTS; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 945 words


The strange and beautiful career of Debbie Harry is now entering a fascinating
phase. At the age of 64, when most rock chicks have long since retired, it's
clear that this pop icon has no intention of stopping.

That figure may come as a shock to some, especially since most of Harry's
post-punk peers are now around the 50 mark, but the defining sex symbol of the
late Seventies was always older than she let on.

There are all sorts of surprising stats one can bring up here: born in 1945,
Harry is two years the senior of Mary Weiss of The Shangri-Las, whose girl group
sassiness she drew on heavily in Blondie's early years. And she's also two years
older than Marc Bolan, who had already gone superstellar, faded away and died by
the time Blondie had their turn. The opening couplet of "Dreaming" - "When I met
you at the restaurant/You could tell I was no debutante" - was, therefore,
deadly accurate. With her worldly-wise attitude and calculating eyes (they added
you up and found you wanting), Debbie Harry was always the anti-ingenue.

And, after one big comeback and a succession of aftershocks, she evidently
intends to continue performing, like Marlene Dietrich, well into her twilight
years, or perhaps even, like Josephine Baker, till the day she drops. The vital
difference is that Blondie in the 21st century is no cabaret nostalgia act. Or
at least, not entirely.

To the bemusement of an audience here for the hits, this tour is largely a
preview of Blondie's upcoming ninth studio album, Panic Of Girls. In some ways,
I empathise with the picnickers. This may feel more like a Ukip conference or
Countryside Alliance rally than a pop concert, and the crowd may be mainly
comprised of Barbour-jerkined Ellen MacArthur types and their ruddy-cheeked
offspring, but they've paid their money and they're disappointed to go home
without hearing "Denis" and "Sunday Girl" (for me, the absence of "Union City
Blue" is the real killer), especially when room is made for an irrelevant cover
of Taio Cruz's "Break Your Heart". I'm reminded of Homer Simpson heckling
Bachman Turner Overdrive: "No! No new crap! Play "You Ain't Seen Nothing Yet"!"

But this setting - an arboretum (it's like a zoo, but for trees) in the middle
of the Cotswolds - isn't Blondie's ideal setting in any case. Seeing Clem Burke
wearing a CBGBs T-shirt behind his big Perspex drum shield is poignant: if ever
there was a band who need to do what The Stooges have done, bring it back
indoors to the theatres and give it some punk rock, it's Blondie (and this
coming Wednesday's gig at the indigO2 in London is probably as close as we'll
get).

Harry looks, it must be said, incredible. After appearing a little grandmotherly
in recent years, she's recognisably Debbie Harry again: plutonium blonde hair,
Grace Kelly shades, military jacket, punky pleated skirt, and - of course - the
greatest cheekbones Mother Nature ever carved. And, as though looking that way
gives her licence to let go, she's got a new lease of life, doing that daft
rigid-armed, side-to-side dance from every video you ever remember. Her voice
struggles with some of the high notes on "Maria", but on the less demanding
"Picture This", "Presence Dear" and "Tide is High", she's in complete command.

The new stuff, while not a straight carbon copy of the classic material, is a
Warholian screen-print variation on it, as indeed is their bar-code logo, a nod
to the Parallel Lines sleeve. This figures: Blondie are Pop Art in musical form,
Warhol's worldview rendered (in the) flesh.

And the hits, when they come, are no robotic regurgitations either. "Call Me" is
rendered as, essentially, a live mash-up with Muse's "Uprising". On the insane
and inspired hip-hop homage "Rapture" she freestyles about petrol pumps and
China, and breaks off in the middle of "One Way or Another" to ad lib "I
guarantee a certain amount of results if you adopt this philosophy. Flexibility
in our lives and our bodies ...."

Some songs, however, are left intact. "Atomic", for example, with its wild-west
heroic riff and Moroder beats, and the peerlessly disdainful disco of "Heart of
Glass". You don't mess with perfection.

Watching Kele Okereke launch his solo career lends a whole new meaning to the
term "vested interest". Because the black-vested Bloc Party singer looks more
interested in performing his electro-centric debut The Boxer than in the
stand-offish indie stylings of Bloc Party.

Wading into the crowd, literally getting into the mix (rather than farming it
out to Armand Van Helden), he is, as lyrics like "I am turning into the man I
used to be" suggest, taking control and reclaiming his identity.

He's even writing his own reviews: glancing down at a pendant made of red, amber
and green LEDs, he says "I seem to have a flashing light in place of my heart.
How symbolic ...."

Okereke's demeanour is more like that of the MC at a Rio carnival after-party
than a guy doing a gig under the arches on Brighton beach, and the atmosphere is
more like a rave than a Thursday night gig with a 10pm curfew: sweat, green
lasers, hands in the air, and so much smoke that passers-by on the promenade
pause with concern.

"Ooh, what's this?" he says coyly, putting a guitar around his neck. "I haven't
seen one of these in a long time ...." He bats back requests for Bloc Party
numbers for a while ("'Helicopter'? What's that?"), but it isn't long before he
relents, with BP's rapturous "One More Chance" and a Hi-NRG encore of "Flux",
proving that sometimes pleasing the crowd and pleasing yourself can be one and
the same.

NEXT WEEK

Simon Price encounters two very different legends: the Reverend Al Green, and
the somewhat less holy Ozzy Osbourne

LOAD-DATE: July 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 27, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The divided loyalties on Ukip's home front

BYLINE: David Harrison

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 570 words


Watching England play Germany in the World Cup is a tense, and usually
depressing, experience. But for Nigel Farage, a UK Independence Party MEP, the
tension will be particularly high as Fabio Capello's team slug it out with their
old enemies today. For sitting on the sofa next to him at his home in rural Kent
will be his German wife, Kirsten.

Mrs Farage, a former interpreter and now her husband's secretary, is clear where
her allegiance lies: "I will be supporting Germany. I want them to win and
generally, against England, they do."

Mr Farage, 46, is not relishing the prospect of his wife cheering every German
shot, pass and tackle, and he is dreading a German victory. "If they win,
Kirsten will take the mickey mercilessly. If Germany win, I shall retreat to my
office and spend the evening there to avoid the flak."

The former Ukip leader, who stepped down to challenge John Bercow, the Commons
Speaker, at the general election, still has bitter memories of the 1990 World
Cup when England lost in the semi-final to Germany on penalties. "I had a ticket
for the final," he says.

But he has not written off England's chances of victory today: "I am cautiously
optimistic, and if we win I suppose I will be quite insufferable."

The couple admit they rib each other all the time about Anglo-German rivalry.
"Football brings it to a head," says Mr Farage.

"It's the big one. As a Second World War veteran in our village said to me, 'I
have reconciled myself to the Germans, as long as we beat them at football.' "
Mrs Farage, who is in her early forties, has hung a German flag on the garden
fence. "It winds Nigel up quite a bit," she says. "I do take the mickey when we
win and, because that is usually what happens, Nigel doesn't get much chance to
come back at me. The best he can manage is that silly old song, 'Two World Wars
and One World Cup'.

"There certainly wasn't much banter coming from him at the start of the World
Cup because Germany were so good and England were so bad. Then we lost to Serbia
and beat Ghana, but we didn't play brilliantly, which was similar to England.

"There was that friendly in Berlin a couple of years ago when England beat us
2-1, but that was only because we were being nice and let England win."

Mrs Farage says that the couple try to be "restrained and civilised" when giving
vent to their nationalistic sentiments. Otherwise it can "really wind up" their
daughters, Victoria, 10, and Isabelle, four, she says. "I have brainwashed the
girls into shouting 'Come on Germany!' So for the time being they will be
supporting Germany, though I am not sure how interested they will be in the
match."

Mr Farage is still recovering from injuries he sustained in a plane crash on
election day, but he says that if he feels well enough he will prepare for the
today's match by going to the pub for a "a couple of pints of fine English
bitter". Sunday lunch will consist of roast beef with Yorkshire pudding and all
the trimmings "if the weather's not too hot".

Mrs Farage is surprised by her husband's patriotic culinary plans. "I find it
amusing that Nigel is thinking about roast beef," she says. "If he's
volunteering to cook, then roast beef is fine with me, although if it's a nice
day we'll probably have a barbecue.

"But we are not great sausageeaters in this house, and I don't really go in for
lots of bratwurst and sauerkraut, despite the popular myths about Germans."

David Harrison

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ukip's Nigel Farage is an England fan, but his wife supports Germany

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 26, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

JOBS FEARS AS MILLION POLES HEAD TO BRITAIN;
Jobless Poles get set for Britain

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 372 words


BRITAIN faces a fresh wave of migrants with up to a million Poles planning to
come here because their country has been gripped by economic woes, it was warned
last night.

A study has discovered that up to a third of the three million Poles who
originally went abroad for work when Britain opened its borders to new European
nations in 2004 and then returned home are now planning to leave for our shores
again.

Researcher Dr Dorota Wiszejko-Wierzbicka said: "We spoke to people who had come
back from working abroad and a third of them said they wanted to go away again."

Last night there were fears Britain will be inundated again with unemployed
migrants from Eastern European countries like Poland.

UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "This points to the evidence of our own eyes,
and is now confirmed by the Poles themselves. It is a sad fact that the British
benefits system gets more attractive as the economic crisis gets less so."

Labour MP Ian Davidson said: "The last thing we need is Eastern Europeans
flooding in. David Cameron must halt unlimited immigration from the EU."

Sir Andrew Green of Migrationwatch said: "We now have a significant Polish
community of about 500,000 in Britain - the largest for the EU except for the
Irish."

Dr Wiszejko-Wierzbicka, a professor at the Warsaw School of Social Sciences and
Humanities, claims that three million Poles left in search of better-paid work
after the country joined the EU in 2004, along with other former eastern bloc
states. And now returnees are struggling to find work.

Abroad

She said: "They know that not only is there better pay abroad but there are also
more jobs. In Poland barely a third of the returnees surveyed by us have a
steady job. No wonder then that onethird want to leave again."

More than one million migrants came to Britain from Poland and the other
so-called A8 countries - Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary, the
Czech Republic and Slovenia.

The massive influx has caused a huge strain on social resources such as schools
and hospitals, and British-born residents claimed they were overlooked for jobs
in favour of Eastern European workers.

The study interviewed 2,215 former migrant workers in the region of
Warminsko-Marurskie in north-west Poland.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 24, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

YOU CAN'T BAN BURKHA;
SAY EUROCRATS 'Out of touch' Eurocrats may scupper plan to ban burkhas

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 714 words


EUROPE backed the burkha yesterday by ruling that the controversial Muslim veils
should not be banned.

MPs from 47 countries voted unanimously that outlawing the full-face veils would
deny women "who genuinely and freely desire to do so" the right to cover their
faces.

The Council of Europe's resolution is not binding on members of the group, which
includes all European countries except Belarus, as well as Turkey.

But the vote by the human rights group threatens to torpedo bans planned in
France, Belgium, the Netherlands and Spain as it could open governments up to
costly legal battles.

Last night the ruling was condemned as "out of touch".

UKIP leader Lord Pearson said: "This vote just highlights the disconnection
between the appointed politicians of the Council of Europe and the peoples of
Europe.

"They refused to represent the people's wishes, preferring to hold them in
contempt." Tory MP Philip Hollobone said: "It just goes to show how out of touch
European politicians are with popular opinion.

"I have no doubt that the majority of the British public are against the wearing
of the burkha and the full-face niqab veil."

Belgium was set to become the first European state to ban the burkha after the
country's lower house of parliament voted unanimously in favour of outlawing it.
An impending vote in the upper house would make it a criminal offence to wear
"clothing that hides the face" in a public place.

Branded

The Council of Europe also branded the Swiss bigots for their ban on the
construction of Islamic minarets.

Last year Switzerland banned the building of the minarets - towers used to call
Muslims to prayer - after a nationwide referendum.

Politicians claimed the minarets represent militant Islam. Switzerland is home
to 400,000 Muslims out of a population of 7.5 million .

A third of Britons back an outright ban on the burkha and two-thirds believe it
should be illegal to wear the full-face covering in places such as banks and
airports, a poll found.

The survey of 1,000 people this year also found that 60 per cent said schools
should be allowed to prevent teachers wearing burkhas.

UKIP has called for a total bar on the Islamic dress, claiming the burkha and
niqab are symbols of an "increasingly divided Britain".

Meanwhile, the Muslim Council of Britain has labelled French President Nicolas
Sarkozy's opposition to the burkha as "patronising and offensive".

The French leader said: "The burkha is not a sign of religion, it is a sign of
subservience.

"We cannot accept to have in our country women who are prisoners behind netting,
cut off from all social life, deprived of identity."

Yesterday's resolution was approved by MPs including a British legation with Lib
Dem Mike Hancock and Labour's Lord McIntosh.

Compelled

The human rights group acknowledged that the veiling of women was seen as "a
symbol of subjugation of women by men".

However, the council ruled a general ban would impede the rights of women.
"There should be no general prohibition on wearing the burkha and the niqab or
other religious clothing," the council said.

But the council added that a woman should not be "compelled to wear religious
apparel by her community or family" - and that doing so constitutes a crime.

And the council also left the door open for targeted laws against the wearing of
the burkha .

It said that legal restrictions may be justified "for security purposes or where
the public or professional functions of individuals require their religious
neutrality, or that their face can be seen".

The council's ruling was part of a report on Islam, Islamism and Islamophobia
voted on in Strasbourg yesterday .

The group also called on European governments to educate Muslims, their families
and communities on their human rights and to encourage them to take part in
"public and professional life".

Founded by Sir Winston Churchill in 1950, the Council of Europe is the
continent's human rights watchdog and oversees the European Court of Human
Rights.

It is now made up of 47 members and is quite separate from the European Union.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should Britain ban the burkha?

YES: 0901 030 8344 NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXtHUryEs to 80088 no text DXtHUrno to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Burkhas like this must not be banned

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 24, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Eurocrats veto legal moves to ban the burkha

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 439 words


EUROPE gave its backing to the burkha yesterday after MPs from 47 countries
voted unanimously against a ban on wearing the controversial Muslim face
covering. Outlawing the full-face veils would deny women "who genuinely and
freely desire to do so" the right to cover their faces, the Council of Europe
ruled.

The human rights watchdog resolution is not binding on members of the 47-nation
group that includes all European countries except Belarus, as well as Turkey.
But the vote threatens to torpedo bans planned in France, Belgium, the
Netherlands and Spain as it could open the way for costly legal battles with
Muslims in courts across Europe.

Last night the European ruling was condemned as "out of touch".

UKIP leader Lord Pearson said: "This vote just highlights the disconnection
between the appointed politicians of the Council of Europe and the peoples of
Europe.

"They refused to represent the people's wishes, preferring to hold them in
contempt."

Conservative MP Philip Hollobone said: "It just goes to show how out of touch
European politicians are with popular opinion. "The majority of the British
public are against the wearing of the burkha and the full-face niqab veil. We
are never going to have a fully integrated Muslim community when you cannot see
people's faces."

Belgium was set to become the first European state to ban the burkha following
aftower house of parliament voted er the country's Belgium's lunanimously in
favour of outlawing it earlier this year. An impending vote in the upper house
would make it a criminal offence to wear "clothing that hides the face" in a
public place.

Similar legislation is planned in France, the Netherlands and in parts of Spain.

A third of Britons back a ban on the burkha and two-thirds believe it should be
illegal to wear the full-face covering in places such as banks and airports, a
poll found. The survey of 1,000 people found 60 per cent said schools should be
allowed to prevent teachers wearing burkhas.

The Muslim Council of Britain attacked French President Nicolas Sarkozy
opposition to the burkha as "patronising and offensive".

The French leader said: "The burkha is not a sign of religion, it is a sign of
subservience."

The resolution, which was approved by MPs including a British legation including
Lib-Dem Mike Hancock and Labour's Lord McIntosh, acknowledged that the veiling
of women was seen as "a symbol of subjugation of women by men".

But the Council ruled that the general ban would impede the rights of women who
freely wished to cover up.

It said: "There should be no general prohibition on wearing the burkha and the
niqab or other religious clothing."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vote backed wearing of burkha

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 21, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

EXPATS IN £46M BENEFIT SCANDAL;
£46m of benefits sent abroad to fund expat lives in the sun

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 366 words


MILLIONS of pounds of taxpayers' money is being sent to Britons living in the
sun who claim they are too sick to work.

Incapacity benefits of nearly £46million a year go to thousands of expats in
places like Spain, France, Cyprus and Portugal.

Many of the 10,000 claimants have been receiving the payments for more than five
years Without their cases being reviewed. A loophole allows them to simply send
in a doctor's note to keep the money funding their life abroad.

Last night Tory MP Philip Davies said: "This is a loophole that should be closed
down. I know that the new Government is trying to clamp down on those who are
abusing the benefits system. It would be unacceptable if these new stringent
checks only applied to people living in the UK and not people living outside the
country."

The Government plans to re-evaluate incapacity benefit claimants in Britain but
has not mentioned those living abroad.

Matthew Elliott, of campaign group the Tax Payers' Alliance, said: "There has
got to be a proper review of all claimants, including those abroad, to make sure
no one is taking advantage and playing the system."

Ukip MEP Campbell Bannerman said: "What was the Costa del Dole has become the
Costa del Malinger.

"If people cannot bother to prove their illness then they should no longer prey
on the taxpayer."

Figures obtained by the Daily Express show almost £46million was paid to 9,660
claimants living abroad last year - a quarter of them in Spain.

Broken

Nearly 90 per cent of overseas recipients are on longterm incapacity benefit and
more than two-thirds of them have been receiving it for five years or more .

About a third of claimants are under 50. Claimants receive £68.95 for the first
six months. This rises to £81.60 and then to £91.40 after a year.

A Department for Work and Pensions spokeswoman said: "This is another example of
how the benefits system is broken and why we need to fix it.

"We will be reassessing people claiming incapacity benefits to see if they could
make the move into employment and we are looking at how this will work for
people abroad."

Up to 90 per cent of Britain's 2.6 million incapacity benef i t c laimant s ar e
thought capable of working.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Conservative MP Philip Davies

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 20, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE ART OF LOOKING DANGEROUS;
On her fifth marriage and after countless stage and screen roles, Joan Collins,
77, still relishes playing the villain, she tells Roya Nikkhah

BYLINE: Roya Nikkhah

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1359 words


There is something distinctly regal about Joan Collins - the powdered face, the
diamonds, the immaculate wig. So her next role playing a queen should not be too
much of a stretch - even if it is Queen Rat in a pantomime production of Dick
Whittington.

Hollywood it isn't, but Collins is preparing to steal the show when she stars
alongside Nigel Havers and Julian Clary later this year at the Birmingham
Hippodrome, where we meet. "She's going to be as evil and vicious and nasty as I
can possibly make her," she says, whipping off a leopard-print trench coat to
reveal lots of leg and a hot pink jersey dress that clings to her petite but
still impressively curvy figure. "I hope to get a lot of boos," she adds,
flashing me her best "Queen Rat bitch" glare as she settles on the sofa.

Collins has, of course, cornered the market playing the villainess, most
memorably in the lead role of the film adaptation of her sister Jackie's book,
The Bitch, and as Alexis Carrington Colby in Dynasty, one of the most popular
television series.

During the 1980s, millions tuned in for their weekly dose of the vengeful
Alexis's elaborate scheming for power, money and love, and the role won Collins
a Golden Globe Award. I expect her to say that it's all just an act when I ask
if there is anything of the Queen Rat or Alexis in her, but Collins sets me
straight.

"I think you always have to use certain parts of yourself in any role," she
says. "Quite frankly, I've always preferred playing somebody with balls. Crystal
Carrington in Dynasty? I would hate that role. To me she's spineless and wimpy -
there are a lot of those kinds of female roles. But the villain roles, for men
and for women, are always the most interesting."

Since appearing in her first film in 1951, aged 18, hardly a year has gone by
where Collins hasn't set foot in the studio or on stage. She has appeared in
more than 60 films, alongside the likes of Richard Burton, Bing Crosby, Bette
Davis and Paul Newman, and in dozens of television series and plays in the West
End and on Broadway.

What on earth compels her to keep going when clearly, if the size of her diamond
ring is anything to go by, she doesn't need to? "Well, what am I going to do?"
she asks. "Sit around and knit? I would be bored out of my mind if I didn't
work, but I don't work all the time."

Before embarking on An Evening with Joan Collins, her one-woman show in New York
this autumn, there will be a four-month holiday over the summer, much of which
will be spent at her villa in the south of France, followed by a trip to
Acapulco as a postpantomime treat next year. Collins has no plans to slow down,
nor does she have any sympathy for "whinging" older actresses whose diary pages
are not quite as full as hers, and who complain that there are not enough roles
being written for mature women.

"Oh, but it's such a cliché," she says, rolling her eyes. "Because every actress
over the age of 40 has been saying this for the last 30 years. Of course it's
true: the public want to see young people - young people are the people who go
to the cinema. It's a sad fact of life, but you've got to accept it and not
whinge about it."

Collins claims she has never felt the pressure to stay looking younger by going
under the knife or having Botox. "It frightens me," she says of cosmetic
surgery. "Botox, I think, is poison, I would never put it into my face, and I'm
needle-phobic. I spend a lot of time keeping my face out of the sun and taking
care of my skin and wearing make-up.

"I'm appalled at the amount of women who don't bother to take care of their
skin. I was at Ascot yesterday, and there are these women with beautiful hats,
very nice clothes, and they haven't got a shred of make-up on their faces," she
says incredulously.

But what, I ask her, is the secret to looking as fabulous as she does, because
there really is no way round it - Collins is the most amazingly well-preserved
77-year-old you will ever lay eyes on. She also seems to be something of an
expert at maintenance, having written best-selling books such as The Joan
Collins Beauty Book and The Art of Living Well.

"Discipline, certainly, and portion control, though I do have indulgences. I
made the car stop on the way up here and bought one of those chocolate bar
things - a 'Twixt' [sic]. I was also given a very good set of genes, so I
decided I was going to do the best I could to make the best of them for as long
as I could.

"I live very well, but I think I've earned it. I've three children, three
grandchildren, I work, I travel, and I'm very happily married. I'm very
satisfied and happy with my life and there really isn't anything I want."

After five attempts at marriage, Collins seems to have found contentment with
Percy Gibson, a theatrical manager with whom she divides her time between a flat
in Knightsbridge, one in New York and the south of France.

The couple married in 2002, and at their wedding, she made a wicked joke out of
the 32-year age gap that separates them: "If he dies, he dies." Despite divorces
from the actors Maxwell Reed and Anthony Newley, the record producer Ron Kass
and the Swedish singer Peter Holm, Collins remains all for marriage, rather than
just co-habiting.

"I think it's better, I think it's a commitment. I much prefer to say 'my
husband', otherwise what do you say? My live-in? My boyfriend? I made some
mistakes, without question, but I was 18 when I got married for the first time,
that was completely ridiculous. And then the Peter Holm marriage was a complete
mistake, but it's all over, and I really don't dwell on the past."

So is husband number five the one? How can she be sure? "Without question. When
I know, I know."

The daughter of theatrical agent Joe Collins and his wife Elsa, Collins made her
London stage debut at the age of nine in Ibsen's A Doll's House before going on
to study at Rada. Aged 16, she secured a film contract with the J Arthur Rank
Organisation and by 1954, she was signed by 20th Century Fox as their answer to
MGM's Elizabeth Taylor.

Hollywood starlets, she says, were a different breed then, with waists, hips and
proper bodies. Today, she describes them as all having "boys' figures with big
melons stuck on them".

"I'm not a fan of that look, are you? In Hollywood, the girls are forced by the
studios to look extremely thin. I don't know why. When I first went to Hollywood
years and years ago, I was nine stone and they made me go down to eight and a
half. Now, eight and a half stone is considered fat.

"When we did Dynasty, we had to keep under a certain weight, but that weight
then was a lot higher than it is supposed to be now. If you look at Dynasty -
because it's still on every day - and you look at Desperate Housewives, we are
at least a stone heavier than those girls.

"I really don't care what actresses look like, I'm only interested in the movie
or the play. But I feel sorry for those who have to live on a lettuce leaf and a
cucumber slice."

In true scene-stealing fashion, Collins was one of the stars invited aboard the
BBC's celebrity-stacked electionnight party boat, where she could be heard
proclaiming "Huzzah for Cameron!" as the votes came in. After a brief flirtation
with Ukip, she is a true blue again, and has high hopes for the Prime Minister.
"I felt he was very much for the family, and he realised we have a bloated
welfare system and a bloated public sector," she says.

But her love-in with Cameron faltered last week. She declares herself
disappointed by his failure to stand up to President Obama over the BP crisis.

"I wasn't thrilled with his confrontation with Obama," she says crossly. "I
don't think he was strong enough. Let's face it, BP is 39 per cent owned by
Amoco, which is American, the rig is operated by an American company, and it's
in American waters."

But political disillusionment won't get her down. In fact, she tells me as she
belts up her leopard-print trench, nothing really ever gets her down. "I have a
very, very positive attitude towards life and getting on with it. That's my
motto - get on with it."

Dick Whittington opens at Birmingham Hippodrome (0844 338 5000,
www.birminghamhippodrome.com) on December 18

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALLSTAR/CINETEXT; JOHN ROBERTSON ; JANE MINGAY
Still the siren: Joan Collins at 20, main picture, and, above left, today.
Above, Conservative-supporting Collins with Boris Johnson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 June 20, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

As crisis bites, EU grabs for power;
Commentary

BYLINE: MARTA ANDREASEN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1373 words


IT IS the European row that will not go away. Europe's single currency had one
of its best weeks of the year last week as the Spanish government appeared to be
winning control of its overspending and EU leaders hailed a successful meeting
in Brussels. Meanwhile, David Cameron emerged from his first such summit as
Prime Minister apparently unscathed.

But the debate over whether the EU should have the right to scrutinise and
possibly veto overblown national budgets was not settled, and now the European
Commission has said it will bring forward its proposals for so-called "peer
review" by the end of this month.

Can Britain hold out against this? And is the EU fit to exercise such a power
without descending into farce?

Here Marta Andreasen, the European Commission's former chief accountant who was
sacked for blowing the whistle on the scale of EU fraud, gives her blunt answer:
No.

WHAT does the EU do best? Blame others and grab power.

That is the only sensible conclusion to be drawn from the European Commission's
intention to press on with its insistence on scrutinising national governments'
budget plans, including that of Britain. At last week's EU summit, David
Cameron, in his first Brussels outing as the newlyelected Prime Minister, made
clear that Britain was not happy at the prospect of having its tax and spending
"peerreviewed" by other EU members before it could be put into effect.

But within minutes of the meeting ending, and despite signs that other countries
recognised the problem for Britain, the Commission said it would bring forward
its pro-posals just the same, by the end of this month.

While we are all trying to swim through this financial crisis without knowing
exactly when and how it will end, the EU bureaucracy immediately looks around to
find someone to blame.

But the fact is that this very bureaucracy is responsible for the crisis,
because it brought countries into the single currency in the knowledge that
their economies were not up to speed.

Eurostat, the EU's official statistics body, which employs some 900 staff,
insists it is simply a data-collector and declares itself ignorant of the real
situation in Greece, Spain, Portugal and other countries when they joined the
eurozone. But it cannot really pretend that.

It's no secret, for example, that 1.9million of Greece's 10million population
are employed by the state - about half of the active citizenship. In addition,
half of its smaller firms have the state as their only client.

It cannot have been so difficult to understand that the Greek national debt must
be huge, nor that this fact was entwined with the culture of the Greek people
and therefore it would be difficult to modify.

So somebody had their eyes closed when Greece was allowed to join the euro.

Now a rescue package has been put forward, but in reality most of the countries
supposed to contribute to it do not have the money to do so, as they too are
suffering from the crisis.

And on Thursday the EU leaders met to discuss the "peer review" plan, which
would require all countries to submit annual national Budget details to Brussels
before presenting them to their own MPs.

The proposal is that from 2011, "in the interests of strengthening budgetary
discipline across the EU", member states would have to present their budgetary
plans to the Commission each spring, "taking account of national budgetary
procedures".

I cannot say I am surprised to see the EU taking the opportunity to increase its
powers. Yet it is almost unbelievable that it now demands the power to intervene
in our own national budgets when it cannot properly manage its own. One could
not make it up.

I experienced the lack of control exercised on taxpayers' money when I was the
chief accountant of the European Commission, and when I finally decided to
reveal to the outside world the extent of the problems that I saw, I was sacked
from my job for my trouble.

Many will say that things have changed in the eight years since then, but the
fact is that the auditors still fail to clear 90 per cent of the budget. The
Commission's inefficiency also lies in its total lack of foresight when planning
the EU budget, as a result of which it regularly ends the year with an
"underspend" of up to 15 per cent. Then it tries to push member states to use
the funds at the last minute, and it is here that one can find the biggest
irregularities.

The EU normally blames its financial-management failures on the "complexity" of
the Union's budget - an assertion which I always thought was absurd.

The fact is that the size, the nature and the complexity of the EU operation are
more akin to a medium-sized bank - far less challenging than the governmental
structure of any member state, where different ministries implement policies and
operate services.

Now picture the situation at budget time. Once a year the EU's Budget
Commissioner will sit around the table with his "expert team" of civil servants
- all well-paid and with jobs for life - holding 27 booklets containing the
draft budgets of all member states.

They will have no clue about the diverse public sectors of all the different
states, but will nonetheless attempt to give opinions on how many staff the
German defence ministry should employ, or what costs Italian social security
should cover for families including a disabled person, or how many state schools
should be closed down in Poland.

Then their recommendations would be passed to the Council of Ministers. A
curious meeting would take place in the Justus Lipsius building's oval room,
where the Greek finance minister would be able to question the British
chancellor on how much he spends on equipment for troops in Afghanistan, or the
Portuguese minister might tell the French that they should reduce their
unemployment benefit.

Would this exercise solve the crisis? No. But it is the thin end of the wedge,
and a big step further towards economic and political integration that the EU
has been seeking since 1950, without our knowledge.

The EU federalists gladly proclaim that the crisis of the euro is due to
insufficient political integration. One could be forgiven for believing that the
sovereign debt crisis has been allowed to happen so that the EU could arrive at
its aim.

The best recent example of this federalism is a speech given last autumn by Guy
Verhofstadt, the leader of the alliance of Liberals and Democrats in the
European Parliament. He wanted the EU to be able to depend on its own resources,
its own taxation.

He then complained about the small size of the current EU budget, £112billion,
arguing that it should be 20 times that, £2,240billion. This amount is about 25
per cent of the EU's GDP, much the same proportion as the American federal
budget. In other words, the EU should have a budget similar to that of the USA.

So be warned, when the Liberals in the European Parliament start talking of "own
resources" and enlarging the EU budget, they are talking of a United States of
Europe. Perhaps the eurozone members of the EU want that, but the British do
not.

On the contrary, the only solution I can see is to allow the countries in
trouble to go back to their own currencies and devalue. Once they are allowed to
become competitive and start growing again, there is a chance they will be able
to pay back their debt.

Mr Cameron has grandly declared that Britain would not allow Brussels first
sight of the Budget and that proposed hefty sanctions against countries
breaching deficit and debt limits set by the EU must apply only to the
single-currency member states.

But don't hold your breath, because he is relying on six flimsy words of the
summit statement - "taking account of national budgetary procedures" - to get
him off the hook.

I am quite sure that, in his heart of hearts, and even in private with advisers,
he has already acknowledged that when the next stage of the sovereign debt
crisis hits, Britain will be called on to reach into its pockets.

And it will have no choice. In truth, EU integration has already gone that far -
and British banks will be among the losers if a country defaults.

From my knowledge of the EU bureaucracy, I have little hope Britain will be
spared this demeaning procedure.

Marta Andreasen is now a Ukip MEP for South East England

LOAD-DATE: June 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Liberal alliance leader Guy Verhofstadt argued that the EU budget
should be 20 times its current size

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday

Weekend: Haven't I seen you somewhere before?: Even famous people have trouble
finding love - so we set a few of them up on blind dates: Richard Fairbrass and
Peter Tatchell

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 895 words


RICHARD FAIRBRASS, 56

Singer and TV presenter; lead vocalist for pop band Right Said Fred, formed with
his brother, Fred. He has been single for five years.

Did you recognise him? We both recognised each other immediately.

First impressions? He was exactly as I'd imagined him from what I've seen on TV.
Exactly. Taller, though. It was a little bit stiff, but I loosened up with a
glass of champagne.

What did you talk about?

Our respective careers. Obviously we were both in Moscow when we were attacked
(during a gay rights march in 2007). Poor old Peter, he sustained permanent head
damage as a consequence of the beating he got. I was knocked about, but not
permanently injured. So we talked about that a lot. I was keen to talk about the
work Peter does, because he was standing as a Green candidate at the last
election and was a Labour candidate before that. I've never met a bona fide
political activist and I like politics, so it was interesting to pick his
brains. If we'd both been in a pop band, I think we would have finished talking
after the starter and gone home.

Any awkward moments? No. Although one thing that did surprise me was when we'd
been rattling on about politics for ages and then Peter said, "Let's stop
talking about politics and tell me about your career." I was surprised he was
interested.

Good table manners? He was very picky about food. Not in a bad way. He was very
concerned that things were bred properly. So when he ordered the salmon, he
didn't want anything farmed. He was asking a lot more questions than I would
have asked. They could have opened a tin and I would have eaten it! Maybe it's
part of his green credentials. I was very relieved that Peter drank. I
instinctively don't trust people who don't drink.

Best thing about him? His compassion. He's absolutely overloaded with compassion
for other people to the point where I think he neglects himself. I told him so.
He's going back to Moscow and I said,"Why are you going? It's ridiculous. They
knocked you about last time. Don't go." So I got a bit bossy. He gets 600 emails
a day. And he helps something like two to three and a half thousand people a
year with all their particular problems. And I think even he's aware that it's
tiring and that he doesn't get enough support.

Did you go on somewhere? We stayed until half past one. I stood around waiting
for a cab for 10 minutes and Peter went off on his bike.

Marks out of 10? Oooh, 9. I really enjoyed it. I had an impression of Peter -
based on what I'd seen on TV - that he was a bit overly serious. He's actually
not like that. I had an impression of him that was fairly narrow and he is
actually much more rounded. We got on really well.

Would you meet again? Yes. We've been emailing and it would be nice to go out
for dinner. I'm interested in the work he does. He has dedicated most of his
life to representing other people for almost nothing and gets no recognition at
all. Peter does have a fan in me.

PETER TATCHELL, 58

Human rights campaigner and one of the founders of gay rights group OutRage! He
has twice attempted a citizen's arrest of Robert Mugabe, was injuried at a gay
rights march in Moscow in 2007, and arrested after another march in the same
city last year. He has been single for three years.

Did you recognise him? We recognised each other instantly. It was a pleasant
surprise to see Richard. I was dreading being paired up with some awful, snooty,
brain-dead queen or someone I'd tried dating in the past and who'd given me the
brushoff. Our paths had crossed at Moscow Gay Pride in 2007, when both of us
were bashed by neo-Nazis. It was nice to see Richard without blood on his face.
Much more handsome.

First impressions? Very smiley and welcoming. Immediately, I felt at ease. I
thought to myself: this is going to be fun. He was charming, witty, stylishly
dressed and has a great physique, with macho arms to die for. He struck me as
very intelligent and well read, as I expected - not an airhead pop star.

What did you talk about? Richard can talk - and talk! We obviously had a good
time, because our dinner lasted over four hours; conversing about his music and
my human rights work, the election and the new government, the state of gay
rights and the downsides of the gay scene and culture. We shared a critique of
its sometimes shallow, me-first, consumerist, materialistic mentality. The only
surprise was that Richard voted Ukip - on democratic and libertarian grounds, he
said. He, more than me, chatted about ex-boyfriends.

Any awkward moments? No awkward or dull moments. We got on really well, but more
as friends than as people dating.

Best thing about him? He's very smart and articulate, well rounded and grounded.

Did you go on somewhere? We walked together to Waterloo; parting with a hug and
kiss (sans tongues). He got a taxi. I rode off on my bicycle.

Marks out of 10? 8. He'd make a good boyfriend, definitely.

Would you meet again? I'd like to keep in touch with Richard. We have very
hectic lives and commitments, with lots of travel. If we were partners, when
would we ever see each other? Richard likes skinny men, so that's me. But we
both have a recent history of younger partners. I am open to the possibility of
dating someone in their 50s, but it is probably a bit of a challenge for him and
for me.

Richard and Peter ate at Oxo Tower Restaurant, London SE1, 020-7803 3888.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 19, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Europe knows it cannot go back, but can't bring itself to go forward

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1167 words


The battered, noble and ambitious European single currency should perhaps, like
some of us once suggested, have been called after its father, or at least its
godfather. The "Delors" should have taken on the "Dollar". The Great Man himself
- and he is a great man, a wise and almost British kind of pragmatist - spoke
out for the first time on the great euro crisis this week. Jacques Delors, 85
next month and as bright as ever, said something so blindingly obvious that
almost no one else has dared to say it.

"The debts of all countries have increased in a spectacular way because they
came to the rescue of the banks and the financial system. And now this same
financial system is wagging a finger at the excessive public debt. At the same
time, the same financial system complains that cutting the debt will damage
growth and jobs. Governments are damned whatever they do." Mr Delors also
complained of a new "nationalism" and "populism" - especially in Germany, but
not just in Germany - which had made EU "firefighters" culpably slow to react
when the markets began, gleefully, to pour oil on to a smouldering Greek debt
crisis in March.

All the same, Mr Delors conceded, the euro had been built on quicksand. His own
proposals, 15 years ago, when he was European Commission president, to
co-ordinate the economic policies of countries had been rejected, he said. By
whom? He did not say so but largely by Germany.

Another wise man spoke out on the euro crisis this week - in far more
apocalyptic terms. The billionaire investor George Soros said that the EU was
now stuck in a dangerous no-man's-land, unwilling to go backwards and unable to
go forwards. A deepening euro crisis could, he said, "have the potential of
destroying the European Union" and "give rise to the social unrest" which
spawned the fascist movements of the 1930s.

The main culprit? Germany was insisting on maintaining a high trade surplus and
high domestic savings and - despite being one of the few EU countries with no
real debt problem - making large cuts in its own state spending. "But you can't
be a creditor country, a surplus country, without somebody being in deficit," Mr
Soros said. Both men were talking before Thursday's EU summit in Brussels.
Nothing much happened there to change their minds. The French and Germans,
despite a show of unity, remain dangerously divided on the future machinery and
the future policies for preventing another, and deeper, euro crisis. The new
council president, Herman van Rompuy, is supposed to present unified proposals
in October.

From the beginning, the great euro crisis of 2010 has been a confrontation
between two versions of reality, neither of which is especially real. The first
version is the EU version of reality, based on compromise, or if you insist,
fudge. We will do as little as we can (because the German won't do more) and we
hope the problem will go away. The second version is the market version of
reality, based on taking a real problem, like Greek debt, and making it worse in
order to make money. The markets, whatever other faults they have, can smell out
a contradiction, or unworkable compromise, like a truffle dog in November.
Despite the assurances given at the summit, Spain could face a market hurricane
in the next few weeks, which could make the Greek crisis look like a passing
squall.

On the other hand, there have been some signs that the markets have grown bored
with bullying the euro. The US federal deficit is higher than Spain's; 35 out of
the 50 US states have technically illegal budget deficits. The markets may now
decide to hound sterling or the dollar. Either way, the combined wisdom of
Delors (the enlightened bureaucrat) and Soros (the enlightened speculator)
remains valid. The EU has come to a dangerous crossroads.

In some respects, this is a place that the EU knows well. Most of its
achievements have been born out of crisis. There are two reasons to fear that
this is not just a crossroads but a minefield. There is, as Mr Delors says, a
new nationalism in Europe, which partly explains the new selfishness - or narrow
and self-defeating definition of national interests - which has arisen in
Germany. Something of the same trend could be seen in the past week in the
election results in Belgium and the Netherlands. Bart de Wever, the "moderate"
Flemish nationalist, and Geert Wilders, the plausible Dutch populist, represent
a kind of educated, middle-class, white-collar selfishness and intolerance -
Ukip rather than BNP. This may be more threatening in the long run than
old-fashioned, blue-collar, xenophobic nationalism.

There is another reason why the present euro crisis is disturbing (and should be
disturbing even to moderate eurosceptics). As both Mr Delors and Mr Soros
suggest, the EU has reached a point where it cannot easily go forward and is
unable, safely, to go back.

To move forward would be to enter the forbidden land of true federalism. If the
euro was rooted in a single economic and budgetary policy from Germany to
Greece, it would be easier to run and keep stable, in theory. Such a Europe-wide
economic policy is politically impossible, and probably undesirable in practice.

The euro is the perfect symbol of the EU tendency to shuffle forwards three
steps towards quasi-federalism and then shuffle two steps back. Mr Delors and
others were right that a single currency without any form of political
government was likely to prove unstable in the long run. (It took the markets
rather a long time to see that they could make money from this contradiction but
they got there in the end.)

The Germans, now even more nationalist in their thinking, remain viscerally
opposed to the idea of a "euro government" of 16 countries. David Cameron
refuses, rightly, to accept Angela Merkel's unworkable idea of a vague economic
"governance" of all 27 EU states. Result: deadlock and calamity. Or perhaps not.

Until now, it has been unwise to underestimate the survival instinct of the EU
and all its works. Until now, EU governments have always dreaded the kind of
nuclear confrontation which would tear the whole project apart. EU governments,
especially the Germans, have, until now, felt a gut terror of the EU failing and
turning the European clock back - as Mr Soros warns - to 1930.

The great known unknown (as Donald Rumsfeld would say) is a newly confident,
newly intolerant Germany: not exactly Ukip-ised but no longer willing to accept
that European interests are nearly always Germany's interests. How far can a
politically weakened Ms Merkel go towards a more balanced, less selfish,
beggar-my-neighbour approach to Europe-wide economic recovery? Can Mr van Rompuy
come up with a plan which, short of a euro "government", narrows the divergences
which are tearing the euro - and the EU - apart?

Eurosceptics in Britain may delight in the problems of the EU. This year's 70th
anniversaries should remind them that it is sometimes dangerous to be given what
you most desire.

j.lichfield@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 18, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Hands off our budget plans, Cameron tells EU meddlers

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 538 words


DAVID Cameron scored a double victory in the fight to shield Britain's economic
sovereignty last night at his first summit encounter with fellow EU leaders.

The Prime Minister announced the UK would not submit its annual budget for "peer
review" by Brussels.

And he warned that proposed hefty sanctions against countries breaching deficit
and debt limits set by the EU must apply only to states that have the euro as
their currency.

Mr Cameron said the summit had delivered a "good outcome" for Britain, ensuring
that his "red lines" in Europe had been preserved.

He said: "The euro has to sort out its own problems and issues.

"Our red line is that I will not support a transfer of powers from Westminster
to Brussels.

"We are not in the euro, and we are not going to join the euro, and if the
eurozone countries, who have chosen to join, need to strengthen their position,
it is not for us to transfer sovereignty to do that."

Mr Cameron said a larger EU had diluted the tendency for further bureaucratic
integration.

He said: "Now Europe is so much wider and broader, with the countries of eastern
and central Europe as members, that will help push us in a more
intergovernmental direction, which I support.

"The wider and broader Europe takes some of the pressure off further
integration. But you also have to be on your guard."

Summit conclusions on the table seem to offer the Prime Minister a way out of
the "peer review" plan, which would require all countries to submit annual
national budget details and analysis to Brussels.

The text backed by most EU leaders proposes that, from 2011, member states
should present their budgetary plans to the Commission each spring "taking
account of national budgetary procedures".

Mr Cameron is relying on the last six words to provide a loophole for the UK.

Meanwhile, debate is raging on whether sanctions for excessive deficits and
debts, including fines and possible temporary suspension of EU voting rights,
should apply only to the 16 eurozone members or all 27 EU countries. Mr Cameron
is determined they should apply only to the eurozone nations.

During yesterday's summit the European leaders discussed the progress of a "task
force" on economic rules and surveillance. After a pre-summit British breakfast
of bacon and scrambled eggs with European Commission President Jose Manuel
Barroso, the Prime Minister declared: "We have a strong and positive agenda
taking action on finance. We will always defend our national interest as others
do, and our national red lines but we know how important growth and confidence
is in Europe."

Mr Cameron also emphasised the importance of a strong EU trade policy,
insisting: "We will be a good promoter of free trade to get the engine of the
world economy moving."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage likened Mr Cameron's friendly exchanges with the European
Council President Herman Van Rompuy to his warm relations with Nick Clegg. Mr
Farage said: "I guess it is similar, a sort of European version of the Chuckle
Brothers."

Should the EU stay out of our economy? q Yes: 0901 030 8346 No: 0901 030 8347
Yes text DXFRIYes to 80088 No text DXFRINo to 80088 Calls cost 25p from a BT
landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator
rates

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron with EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso
yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Budget surveillance;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 109 words


SIR - However much our rubber-stamp coalition of satraps may huff and puff, the
unelected commissars of the EU's empire can now compel us to submit our Budgets
to them for "surveillance" (report, June 12) before they are presented to our
elected, but now self-gelded, Parliament of eunuchs - notwithstanding the long
and sensible tradition that there should be no taxation without representation.

And this from an EU kleptocracy so inept as well as corrupt that it has not been
able to get its internal auditors to sign off its own accounts as a true and
fair record for at least 14 successive years. Lord Monckton of Brenchley Deputy
Leader, Ukip London SW1

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: Bogus and misdirected, yes. But the Tea Party has a lot to teach the
left: The radical right has an authenticity the left lacks - it is angry and
ready to translate that anger into action. We talk, they act

BYLINE: George Monbiot

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1177 words


In the Netherlands a movement based on paranoia and the fleecing of the poor
looks set to join the government. In the United States one of the biggest
exercises in false consciousness the world has ever seen - people gathering in
their millions to lobby unwittingly for a smaller share of the nation's wealth -
has become the playmaker in Republican primaries. The radical right is seizing
its chance. But where is the radical left?

Both the Freedom party in the Netherlands and the Tea Party movement in the US
base their political programmes on misinformation and denial. But as political
forces they are devastatingly effective. The contrast to the leftwing meetings
I've attended over the past two years couldn't be starker. They are cerebral,
cogent, realistic - and little of substance has emerged from them.

The rightwing movements thrive on their contradictions, the leftwing movements
drown in them. Tea Party members who proclaim their rugged individualism will
follow a bucket on a broomstick if it has the right label, and engage in the
herd behaviour they claim to deplore. The left, by contrast, talks of collective
action but indulges instead in possessive individualism. Instead of coming
together to fight common causes, leftwing meetings today consist of dozens of
people promoting their own ideas, and proposing that everyone else should adopt
them.

It would be wrong to characterise the Tea Party movement as being mostly working
class. The polls suggest that its followers have an income and college education
rate slightly above the national mean. But it is the only rising political
movement in the US which enjoys major working-class support. It voices the
resentments of those who sense that they have been shut out of American life.
Yet it campaigns for policies that threaten to exclude them further. The
Contract from America for which Tea Party members voted demands that the US
adopt a single-rate tax system, repeal Obama's healthcare legislation and
sustain George Bush's reductions in income tax, capital gains tax and
inheritance tax. The beneficiaries of these policies are corporations and the
ultra-wealthy. Those who will be hurt by them are angrily converging on state
capitals to demand that they are implemented.

The Tea Party protests began after the business journalist Rick Santelli
broadcast an attack from the floor of the Chicago Mercantile Exchange on the
government's plan to help impoverished people whose mortgages had fallen into
arrears. To cheers from the traders at the exchange, he proposed that they
should hold a tea party to dump derivative securities in Lake Michigan in
protest at Obama's intention - in Santelli's words - to "subsidise the losers".
(I urge you to watch the broadcast: it is the most alarming example of cheap
demagoguery you are likely to have seen. It continues to be promoted by
Santelli's employer, CNBC.)

The protests that claim to defend the interests of the working class began, in
other words, with a call for a bankers' revolt against the undeserving poor.
They have been promoted by Fox News - owned by that champion of the underdog
Rupert Murdoch - and lavishly funded by other billionaires. Its corporate
backers wrap themselves in the complaints of the downtrodden: they are
21st-century Marie-Antoinettes, who dress up as dairymaids and propose that the
poor subsist upon a diet of laissez-faire.

Before this movement had a name, its contradictions were explored in Thomas
Frank's seminal book, What's the Matter with Kansas? The genius of the new
conservatism, Frank argues, is its "systematic erasure of the economic". It
blames the troubles of the poor not on economic forces - corporate and class
power, wage cuts, tax cuts, outsourcing - but on cultural forces. The
backlashers could believe that George Bush was a man of the people by ignoring
his family's wealth. They can believe that the media is a liberal conspiracy
only by forgetting about the corporations (CNBC, Fox, etc) and the conservative
billionaires who run it.

The movement depends on people never making the connection between, for example,
"mass culture, most of which conservatives hate, and laissez-faire capitalism,
which they adore" or "the small towns they profess to love and the market forces
that are slowly grinding those small towns back into the red-state dust".

The anger of the excluded is aimed instead at gay marriage, abortion, swearing
on television and latte-drinking, French-speaking liberals. The working-class
American right votes for candidates who rail against cultural degradation, but
what it gets when they take power is a transfer of wealth from the poor to the
rich.

In the Netherlands, Geert Wilders' Freedom party performs a similar conjuring
trick, persuading working- and middle-class voters that their real enemies are
Muslims, while demanding tax cuts, abolition of the minimum wage and reductions
in child benefits. It is only because of the general political doziness of the
British electorate that such movements - despite the UK Independence party's
best efforts - have not yet taken off here. Give them time.

Though most of what they claim is false, one of the accusations levelled by both
the Freedom party and the Tea Party rings true: the left is effete. This
highlights another contradiction in their philosophy: liberals are weak and
spineless; liberals are ruthless and all-powerful. But never mind that - the
left on both sides of the Atlantic has proved to be tongue-tied, embarrassed,
unable to state simple economic truths, unable to name and confront the powers
that oppress the working class. It has left the field wide open to rightwing
demagogues.

The great progressive cringe is only part of the problem; we have also abandoned
movement-building in favour of Facebook politics. We don't want to pursue a
common purpose any more, instead we want our own ideas and identity applauded.
Where are the mass mobilisations in this country against the cuts, against the
banks, BP, unemployment, the lack of social housing, the endless war in
Afghanistan? In the US the radical right is swiftly acquiring ownership of the
Republican party. In the UK the left is scarcely attempting a reclamation of the
Labour party, even as opportunity knocks.

Bogus and misdirected as the Tea Party movement is, in one respect it has an
authenticity that the left lacks: it is angry and it's prepared to translate
that anger into action. It is marching, recruiting, unseating, replacing. We
talk, they act.

It strikes me that in the US the greater opportunities lie not in confronting
the Tea Party movement but in turning it. As its mixed responses to Sarah Palin
and Ron Paul show, it remains fluid and volatile. There's an opening here for
trade unionists to move in and agree that an elite is indeed depriving working
people of their rights, but it is not an intellectual elite or a cultural elite
or a liberal elite: it is an economic elite. The radical right has something to
teach us on this side of the Atlantic as well: the world is run by those who
turn up.

www.monbiot.com

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             June 15, 2010 Tuesday

The Low Countries' new low

BYLINE: Ilana Bet-Elguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 806 words

ABSTRACT

Ilana Bet-El: That so many people in the Netherlands and Belgium have voted
along ethnic lines in their respective elections is unsettling

FULL TEXT

The Netherlands, Belgium and Luxembourg were once collectively known as the ,
largely by Britain which eyed them from across the Channel, and often fought
them too. Over the centuries this rather disparate grouping of people and
interests passed from ruler to empire, from Charlemagne to the Bourbons, through
the Spanish and eventually the Dutch, before finally gaining official separation
with the creation of Belgium in 1830, and the demise of the union between the
Netherlands and Luxembourg in 1890. As a result of this history, there is
nothing worse than lumping two or three of these states together in any way -
which makes it all the more ironic to mark how alike they seem to have become.

Both the  and  have been to the polls within days of each other, and both have
produced rather similar results: a rise in narrow national, near-nationalist
interests, coupled with a strong socialist showing. These are interesting
trends.

In the Netherlands, the big winner was Geert Wilders and his populist right wing
Freedom Party that is openly anti-Muslim, and is only marginally less hostile to
other foreigners. Their message is loud and clear: the Netherlands is for the
Dutch, and only if they are white. With 15% of the vote, giving them 24 seats in
parliament, they are a power to be reckoned with. This is especially true given
the strong showing by the VVD, the right-of-centre party that is pro austerity
and anti EU, which garnered 20% of the vote and 31 seats, and will most likely
lead the next government. However, right behind them, with 30 seats, are the
Socialists, who seek greater cohesion and broader welfare in the face of the
financial crisis for all the Dutch, regardless of ethnicity.

Creating a working coalition between these disparate groups will be difficult -
but nowhere near as much as the task facing the Belgians. For here, 30% of the
Flemish north in Flanders region voted for the New Flemish Alliance (N-VA)
headed by Bart de Wever, which openly advocates a dissolution of the federal
Belgian state along linguistic lines. They also espouse financial austerity and
a return to economic growth, possibly with cuts to health and pensions.

However, in the Walloon French speaking south that suffers high unemployment, it
was the Socialists who won big, with 36% of the vote, on a platform promising
ever greater state aid and subsidies - largely from a federal pot that is
running a 99% deficit on GDP (the second highest in the eurozone after Greece),
and the largesse of the more industrious Flanders.

The Rubik's Cube of coalition building is the natural order of political life in
both Belgium and the Netherlands, and ultimately governments will be formed in
both. However, that step cannot - and should not - mask two clear realities:
that there are deeply conflicting views on the very essence of the state and its
role, not least in the economic and social perspective; and that a sizeable
portion of a broad group of people spread between Flanders and the Netherlands
do not like foreigners and have no qualms saying so.

As for the first, it is no longer a case of simply left or right of centre, as
has been the conventional wisdom of the past decade - but rather of socialism
reverting to a more fundamental form that embraces an ever-widening welfare
state, and liberalism with a much diminished contribution from the state. These
are disparate visions - and they may become apparent across the EU.

As for the ethnic vote - whether it is an independent Flanders for the Flemish
or a Netherlands for the white Dutch - it must be seen as unsettling. For the
genies let out of these bottles are not only those of dividing states, but also
of public acceptance: in neither state has there been any collective intake of
breath in horror at the idea that so many people felt it correct to vote on
ethnic lines. Nor has there been any attempt so far to examine how this has
become publically and socially acceptable in states that apparently deem
themselves liberal and open.

The point of democratic elections is that electors have the option to vote or
not to vote for something, with not voting in a party sending as strong a
message as a pro vote. In the UK, for example, the electorate rejected both the
xenophobic UKIP and the racist BNP by not voting for them, even though both were
listed.

In both Flanders and the Netherlands the voters clearly decided to vote for
ethnic and effectively nationalist parties. And while they may hate being lumped
together, the similar choices in both suggest the region may once again merit
the collective title of the Low Countries: low in intent, low in outcome, low as
in debased.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 13, 2010

Actually, Mr Balls, the impact of Poles has been positive: THE BIG ISSUE
IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Wiktor Moszczynski Former officer of the Federation of Poles in Great
Britain, London W5 Philip Wilmot Jon Bloomfield Dr Christian Schweiger School of
Government and International Affairs, Durham Uni

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 650 words


"In retrospect" Ed Balls thinks the decision in 2004 to lift transitional
restrictions on the free movement of labour between the UK and central (not
"eastern" !) European member states of the EU was wrong. Well, at the time, it
was not wrong. The input from hard-working Poles and other EU nationalities was
highly beneficial to the growing pre-recession British economy.

What was wrong , as the Federation of Poles in Great Britain repeatedly reminded
the government, was the lack of proper statistics on how many central Europeans
were arriving here, where they were finding work and settling and how this would
impact on local services. Large cities could absorb these new arrivals
relatively easily, but smaller country towns would find themselves exposed to an
unexpected drain on their financial resources and their social fabric. It was
this blindness to the uneven impact on communities which was the government's
most serious error, and not its decision to open the British labour market. This
lack of interest in the new local needs made the existing population nervous and
it allowed the redtop press and extremist organisations to come up with their
own statistics which resulted in considerable inter-community tension. Mr
Balls's belated change of heart will only increase that tension.

Wiktor Moszczynski

Former officer of the Federation of Poles in Great Britain, London W5

Ed Balls is correct in saying that our IT industries depend on immigration, but
the situation is largely of New Labour's making. On their watch, the prospects
of UK-based IT workers were damaged irreparably by the failure of the UK Border
Agency to tackle the widespread abuse of intra-company transfer visas in order
to allow the presence in the UK of very large numbers of predominantly Indian
nationals working for Indian IT outsourcing companies. This means that large
numbers of UK-based IT jobs are filled not by resident workers, but by a
succession of Indian nationals brought to the UK in rotation.

Philip Wilmot

Ipswich, Suffolk

What a depressing and reactionary article by Ed Balls. Progressives have long
argued that a European single market needs to be matched by a strong social
Europe to prevent undercutting of wages and working conditions. Yet the
Blair/Brown government vehemently opposed such measures, above all in refusing
to support the Working Time Directive with its 48-hour maximum working week. As
the chief backroom architect of New Labour's neoliberalism, Balls fully endorsed
this approach. On EU migration, Labour can either fish in the murky nationalist
waters of the Daily Express, Ukip and BNP or it can campaign to strengthen
social conditions across Europe. It should be a no-brainer. Sadly, it isn't.

Jon Bloomfield

Birmingham

Ed Balls advocates the accession of Turkey to the EU on the basis of "continuing
restrictions on the ability of unskilled Turkish labour to move across the EU".
The fact is that EU member states can only limit the migration of workers from
new members for up to seven years. This means that Britain has to grant full
access to workers from Romania and Bulgaria by 2014 at the latest. The same
would apply in the case of Turkey. Ed Balls should not pretend that any British
government would be able to limit permanently what is likely to be mass
migration of workers from Turkey if the country was allowed to join the EU.

Dr Christian Schweiger

School of Government and International Affairs, Durham University

Ed Balls surprised me with his call to limit east European labour migrating into
Britain. ("We were wrong to allow so many eastern Europeans into Britain"
Comment, last week). Normally, when in opposition and/or vying for positions of
power, apparatchiks like Balls don their left-wing hats. He, however, has slunk
into the corner of the right. Like the Bourbons, New Labour remembers everything
but learns nothing.

Bob Stothard

Washington, Tyne & Wear


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 13, 2010

Letter: THE BIG ISSUE: IMMIGRATION: Actually, Mr Balls, the impact of Poles has
been positive

BYLINE: Jon Bloomfield

SECTION: OBSERVER NEW COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 120 words


What a depressing and reactionary article by Ed Balls. Progressives have long
argued that a European single market needs to be matched by a strong social
Europe to prevent undercutting of wages and working conditions. Yet the
Blair/Brown government vehemently opposed such measures, above all in refusing
to support the Working Time Directive with its 48-hour maximum working week. As
the chief backroom architect of New Labour's neoliberalism, Balls fully endorsed
this approach. On EU migration, Labour can either fish in the murky nationalist
waters of the Daily Express, Ukip and BNP or it can campaign to strengthen
social conditions across Europe. It should be a no-brainer. Sadly, it isn't.

Jon Bloomfield

Birmingham


LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We're the law-makers now - and there are going to be some changes

BYLINE: Robert Webb

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 788 words


New Politics! New Britain! The Government's new Total Abrogation of
Responsibility Act is very exciting. It's a chance for "the public" or "ordinary
people" or "the kind of guys you didn't really see much of at Eton, Oxford,
Carlton Communications or the Tory party" to really get involved!

We ask them what new laws they might fancy or which public services they reckon
they could do without and - hey presto! Democracy in action! After all: what's
the point of democracy if not to give unelected people a say in government? The
thing that is so completely wizard is that if deficit reduction measures can be
seen to come directly from us, then, well, who gets the blame when the whole
thing goes massively boobs asunder? That's right - us! Oh, sign me up! Who
wouldn't want to be taken up to the top of the Prater Wheel by Harry Lime and
asked how many ants he'd like to wipe out? Now, let me think: what are the sort
of logical, responsible, consistent ideas that "people" might come up with?
Given that people in general have never sought public office, never tried to
balance a complex budget and are wholly unqualified as lawmakers but sometimes
all too qualified to take part in a fatuous PR smokescreen, what sort of laws
might we expect? A 90 per cent marginal tax rate for people who earn £1 more
than me.

A hugely popular policy, even though there still seems to be some debate about
the identity of "me". However, once this tiny ruffle has been ironed out, this
is a deficitbuster and vote-winner combined!

Turn Scotland into a giant wind farm.

The first coalition of environmentalists and English chauvinists will not only
supply energy needs, but will deliver a final slap to Gordon Brown's Fife face.

Basically, no one lives there anyway. We begin bulldozing in September.

Reintroduce the death penalty, but only for people who definitely did it.

The old system of occasionally executing innocent people by mistake was found to
"rather spoil it for everyone", as a former home secretary put it. The new idea
is to have a 100 per cent infallible criminal justice system that will be funded
by savings made on stationery.

Keep the monarchy, but probably skip a generation because Charles can be a bit
annoying.

As we all know, hereditary primogeniture is the only sane system for choosing a
head of state, except when the next in line won't shut up about architecture, in
which case, y'know, probably get one of those boys to do it, but not the one
who's obviously very unhappy.

All BBC employees to publish their real-time accounts online. Not just expenses
claims, but intrusive accounts of what they do with "their own money" which,
after all, we give to them through the licence fee and expect them to spend
wisely. So a BBC employee who pays £3.29 for an egg and cress sandwich when they
don't particularly like cress will be hauled up in front of James Murdoch's Fear
and Retribution Committee and required to offer a public apology for wasting the
licence fee on illchosen snacks. They will then be forced to work for Sky for a
year without remuneration or wee-breaks.

Introduce the new crime of Malguiltment. A malguilter is a person who tries to
make you feel bad about yourself because of your endless moral failures. For
example, a person might criticise you for that plane trip to Manchester
(environmental failure) or your poor diet (health failure, cooking failure,
parental failure) or the rudeness you showed to that bus driver who must have
assumed that the traffic ahead was a bit clearer than it was and didn't mean to
block the zebra crossing because the guy is obviously eastern European and
probably had a lousy bus-driving instructor anyway so give him a break (civic
failure, hapless immigrant empathy failure).

If you get malguilted for these or any of your other failures, then you can now
report your tormentors to the Me Police who will take them to Room 666 in the
Ministry of Denial where they will watch a video of Liam Fox on a loop telling
them to "chillax".

By the time they leave, they will be admitting that climate change is a
conspiracy and will genuinely love Jeremy Clarkson. The Me Police judge the
treatment to be a complete success when the subject joins Ukip, at which point
they are allowed to die.

All NHS trusts to become self-funding by opening an adjoining donkey sanctuary.
Time to get the charity sector really involved. If a trust is doing badly,
import more donkeys.

Abolish the drink-driving limit except for ladies and students.

A flat-rate booze limit has always discriminated against normal people who can
handle a pint. Age and gender profiling is the only sensible approach. Cheers!

"£3^.29 for an egg and cress sahdwich, when you don't like cr?ss?Nomore
wee-breaks. for you "

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 June 12, 2010
                                 First Edition

Flags, food, feelgood factor - and the football has only just begun;
THE LAST WORD

BYLINE: BRIAN VINER

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 830 words


Ever since Samuel Johnson called it the last refuge of a scoundrel, patriotism
has awakened more condemnation than congratulation in this green and pleasant
land of ours. In the last few decades especially its more obvious
manifestations, notably the flying of the flag of St George, have been
sequestered by the extreme, or quite extreme, right. For any good liberals
driving through English suburbia in their Honda Civics, a St George's Cross
fluttering from a flagpole in a tidy front garden is interpreted as a sure
indication, if not of BNP sympathies, then of Ukip membership, or of Tory
convictions in alignment with those of the late Enoch Powell, or at the very
least, of an affection for Jeremy Clarkson.

Except, that is, during the football World Cup, and to a lesser extent the
European Championship. These are the only periods when English folk of
irreproachably liberal sensibilities - among them, we can safely assume, lots of
Independent readers - join the hang-'ems, flog-'ems and send-'em-homes by flying
the red-and-white flag of St George on their cars, or even Blu-tacking it to
their bedroom windows, facing out.

For a few weeks every fourth summer, as long as England have qualified, it's
acceptable even for those with the most liberal or even republican
sensibilities, for people who to make their own hummus and watch Channel 4 News,
to be flag-waving patriots. It's one of the things I like most about the World
Cup. I bought my £2 car flags yesterday, on a trip to the Co-op to buy
extra-virgin olive oil, and I didn't even have a child in tow. They now flap
proudly from my Mini, and nobody except the most narrow-minded liberal (which is
not, alas, the oxymoron it ought to be) will watch me drive by and think me a
Powellite or a Clarksonist.

There are plenty of other things I like about the World Cup, too. One is the way
in which commercial operations that have nothing to do with football, or indeed
sport, try desperately to clamber aboard the bandwagon. The other day I read a
monthly food magazine featuring a whole series of recipes geared to England's
group games against the USA, Algeria and Slovenia. The idea was for readers to
prepare food associated with the country of England's opponents, and if you know
anyone who intends to embrace this eccentric scheme, make sure you bag an
invitation either today (hamburgers and Vermont baked beans) or next Friday for
lamb with couscous, because on 23 June it's a late lunch of Slovenian dandelion
salad.

The point, I suppose, is that the World Cup is about so much more than football.
It's about food and flags and feelgood factors and even some things not
beginning with F. As for the tangential matter of who is actually going to win
the thing, I see that none of the experts agrees with me that, my patriotic
flags notwithstanding, the Netherlands represent the best value at 10-1. Of
course, this may be why they are experts and I am not, but I refuse to be put
off by the idea that the Dutch are serial under-achievers. So were the Spanish,
apparently, and look what became of them. Whatever, if Van Persie, Robben and co
do make it to the final, it'll be open house at my place. I'll be roasting old
chestnuts.

Join the debate

Have your say at independent.co.uk/sport

Sadness over Rafa's exit is felt across a city

As far as I'm aware, Jose Mourinho has not yet pronounced on the subject of Rafa
Benitez following him into San Siro as manager of Internazionale. But I fancy
that Jose is tickled pink, not because he thinks that Rafa will live up to his
extraordinary legacy of success, but because he knows damn well that he won't.

Meanwhile, some of those Evertonians who claimed victory when the club's plans
to move to a new stadium outside the municipal boundaries were scuppered, must
now admit defeat. More than a few waggish Toffeemen suggested that with the
Kirkby project off the agenda, the KEIOC (Keep Everton in Our City) campaign
should change its name, to KRIOC (Keep Rafa In Our City).

The logic was that as long as Benitez remained in charge on the other side of
Stanley Park, that elusive 19th league title would always stay out of reach, for
the want, so the Spaniard himself used to say with no apparent irony, despite
having spent nearly £300m in six years, of "three or four top players".

The dog ate my fixture list, Sir

The head of games at my sons' school is a passionate rugby and cricket man, who
can scarcely bring himself even to articulate the effete word "football". This
might be why school cricket fixtures are suddenly coming thicker and faster than
at any point since the season began, and also why some of the boys, knowing what
will happen to them if they cite the World Cup as an excuse to cry off, are
having a torrid time with verrucas. Apparently it's also a particularly
dangerous time of year to be a great-aunt; so much more useful than
grandmothers, because they're not rationed to two. At any rate, you wouldn't
believe the number of funerals going on.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 12, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Trumpetings from Iran and hoots from South Africa;
Sketch of the week ; Ahmadinejad blasts the UN while the vuvuzela deafens us,
says Chris Smyth

BYLINE: Chris Smyth

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 106

LENGTH: 694 words


You used to know where you were with anti-imperialist rhetoric.A medal-encrusted
dictator would stand up before a cheering crowd of terrified subjects and
condemn "the running dogs of American capitalism", or "the desperate efforts of
warmonger flunkeys and traitors".

But now Iran's President, Mahmoud Ahmadinejad, has introduced a new term of
abuse into the anti-Western lexicon: "the used handkerchief".

After theUNsecurity council imposed tough new sanctions on Tehran in punishment
for its uranium enrichment, the President was defiant. "Nothing will change," he
said. "The resolutions you issue are like a used handkerchief which should be
thrown into the dustbin. They are not capable of hurting Iranians."

Harmless?A used handkerchief? Hasn't he heard of swine flu? Helpful suggestions
could more usefully be directed to BP, which seems to be needing all the ideas
it can get for clearing up the massive oil slick in the Gulf of Mexico. With
BP's attention still focused on sealing the leak, the clean-up has been less
high-tech.

Volunteers in Florida are using drinking straws to pick up globules of oil from
the beaches. With as much as 40,000 barrels a day pouring into the ocean, they
could be there for some time.

Even more enduring will be misery and tax rises. That was the gloomy message
from David Cameron this week. The Prime Minister announced plans for a "star
chamber" in which all spending will have to be justified, as he said that the
scale of spending cuts he was about to impose would change "our whole way of
life".

Then, for way of light relief, he visited Afghanistan. But he did so as a Times
investigation revealed just how unprepared Britain's Armed Forces had been for
their mission in Helmand province. The top brass hugely underestimated the
Taleban threat and ignored warnings that they didn't have enough troops.
Major-General Andrew Mackay, a former commander in the province, summed up the
attitude, saying service chiefs "went in with their eyes shut and their fingers
crossed".

Luckily, we don't have to think too much about that, because the World Cup is
here. After a mere four years of build-up, the Three Lions will be on the prowl
in South Africa tonight, hoping to kill off the US. Not many England fans seem
to have followed them, perhaps put off by myriad dangers identified by an eager
media.

The latest is the vuvuzela, the flatulent horn blown by all South Africa
supporters. Doctors are warning that, with average noise levels above 100
decibels, prolonged exposure to the vuvuzela could cause hearing loss.

More uplifting is the news that Dutch women are being offered free makeovers,
fashion tips and membership of a dating agency to get them off the dole. The
agency promises a 75 per cent success rate. The three councils trialling the
scheme explain that finding love boosts confidence and motivation, adding that
people who are safely paired up are happier and more successful.

Why does that make us think of Nick Clegg? The DeputyPM wowed Berlin with his
language skills this week. During a meeting with Germany's Foreign Minister, he
said in German: "That famous Berlin air was very refreshing."

Hmm. That sounds like the sort of thing men on park benches say in John le Carré
novels. Could UKIP be right after all - is Clegg an EU spy? Well, no. Any more
than the droves of British prisoners converting to Islam are fervent followers
of Muhammad. These conversions are apparently tactical, we learnt this week,
because Muslims inmates are thought to have an easier time of it. They are
excused work and exercise on Fridays, halal food is apparently tastier than the
normal menu and, as a bonus, you get protection from powerful Muslim gangs.
Crafty.

Mind you, it's hard to spot a sacred environment these days.

The disused Rover car plant in Longbridge, for example. You may see an
industrial wasteland. The Pope, however, sees a sainthood factory. His holiness
is apparently considering Longbridge as a venue for the beatification of
Cardinal John Henry Newman in September. Church spokesmen pooh-pooh the idea.
The ceremony will take place, they insist, in the far more spiritual
surroundings of Coventry airport.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 11, 2010 Friday

Outrage at DVDs teaching gypsies to milk benefits

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 457 words


GYPSIES are being given a special DVD filmed at taxpayers' expense - to teach
them how to milk the state for benefits.

The film tells them how to claim for state handouts including income support,
housing benefit, childcare and other benefits and even shows the faces of
council workers they need to talk to so they can recognise them.

It also has information on schools, healthcare and housing.

More than 250 copies of the film have been distributed by the local Labour
council among 2,500 travellers who are living in Haringey, north London.

Last night there was outrage that taxpayers were expected to pay for it.

UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "You learn about this sort of thing with
absolute disbelief.

"This is the sort of local government waste that must be addressed."

Matthew Elliott of the Tax-Payers' Alliance said: "This scheme is unfairly
marking out one group of people for special treatment.

"The local authority should allow everyone to access services, but spending
money on producing a short, patronising film about it is not going to help."

One Haringey resident said: "I can't believe the council are spending our money
on a DVD teaching travellers how to get hold of benefits.

"The film even shows who the key workers are in the benefits system so they know
who they are dealing with when they turn up to claim the money. I barely know
who my MP is, let alone who the guy who decides whether I get income support or
not."

The borough is home to more than 400 traveller families and has some 20 official
and unofficial gypsy sites.

London Mayor Boris Johnson has announced plans for five new extra sites, also in
Haringey.

All travellers - whether living on recognised or makeshift sites - are required
to pay council tax but the council has one of the worst collection rates.

Outreach worker Margaret Forbes defended the DVD, saying it will be of use to
vulnerable groups, who may be illiterate.

She went on" "One of the biggest issues is vulnerable families and when we
visited these families we saw that they could neither read nor write. We visited
them and now they want to access services."

Gill Brown, of the London Gypsy and Traveller Unit said: "Gypsies and travellers
generally are quite a hidden group of people who don't know where to go to
access services."

Last night a Haringey Council spokesman said: "The DVD was seen as a useful way
of communicating with local travellers. "It was made by Woodside Children's
Centre to encourage traveller families to use the centre and the services on
offer.

"It promotes education, learning, play and health checks for under-fives.

"There is also a drop-in service for parents if they want support and advices.
This is no different from what is on offer to other members of the community."

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 11, 2010 Friday

Feature - Unpopular populism;
Solomon Hughes on how the Labour Party is missing an open goal on housing policy

BYLINE: Solomon Hughes

LENGTH: 975 words


Labour should be looking for the Con-Dem weak points - and there is one obvious
weakness in their coalition agreement. In fact it is as big as a house.

We are in the middle of a housing crisis. During the election campaign voters
continually raised the shortage of affordable homes, even though no party made
housing a central issue.

Housing shortages leave people miserable. And the housing crisis is also central
to the economic crisis - the prices of the limited housing stock rose to
ridiculous levels.

People borrowed more than they could afford to try to catch up. This debt bubble
burst and caused the crash. Housing is a market failure in every sense.

Yet in the whole 36-page coalition programme, there are just five paragraphs on
housing. Four of these are so vague they mean almost nothing.

The Con-Dems promise to "explore a range of measures to bring empty homes into
use." This formula is so good I will use it next time my younger son asks to go
on contract for his mobile phone.

I will tell him that I am "exploring a range of measures to make a new mobile
phone available." Then I can happily do nothing for a few months while he tries
to figure out what I mean.

The coalition's most tangible housing promise is to "promote 'home on the farm'
schemes that encourage farmers to convert existing buildings into affordable
housing."

Somehow I don't think the 1.8 million families on council housing waiting lists
will be able to squeeze into a lovely barn conversion on Zac Goldsmith's organic
farm in Devon.

So Labour could fight the Tories on housing. There is one small problem -
Labour's record in office was terrible.

Labour spent its first 10 years trying to kill off council housing. It wanted
"registered social landlords" or housing associations to take over property
rented to people not ready or able to buy houses.

As a result, it took Labour 10 years to build a tenth of the council houses John
Major's Tory government put up in half the time.

Between 1992 and 1997 around 25,000 council houses were built. Between 1998 and
2008 just over 2,000 council houses were finished.

Did the new housing associations take up the slack? Hardly.

In just five years up to 1997, Major's administration saw housing associations
put up around 194,700 houses. That's a few hundred more than Labour managed in
the following 10 years.

New Labour's worship of the market and contempt for its core vote meant it
abandoned what should be a key popular issue for the party.

But things change. Labour rediscovered some enthusiasm for housing in its dying
days in office.

The Tories have gone out of their way to run out of the goal area on the issue,
offering plenty of chance for the even the most fumble-footed opposition to
score a few.

First, it looks like the coalition will repeal the 2002 law which says
developers need to make a quarter of homes on their new estates "affordable."

This rule was a limited attempt to squeeze some decent homes from developers,
but the ConDems don't think any such demands should be put on property
millionaires.

And now Cameron's "gosh, where's all the money gone" act is hitting the housing
schemes Labour finally launched.

Housing Minister Grant Shapps told the Financial Times that around 150 social
housing projects are under threat because he wants to cut £760 million.

He blames Labour for "waving around a chequebook" over housing. If Shapps knows
a way of getting a house that doesn't involve a chequebook, I would love to know
about it.

Cameron himself has already been forced to defend the freezing of the housing
redevelopment on the site of the old Longbridge plant - and that's one backed by
a Conservative-Lib Dem coalition on Birmingham Council.

So are Labour's leaders having a go on housing? Sort of. Here's Andy Burnham.

He says immigration "was the biggest doorstep issue in constituencies where
Labour lost. People aren't racist, but they say it has increased tension and
stopped them getting access to housing."

Now eastern European migrants have very little access to council housing. The
reason waiting lists are long is simple - councils don't build houses.

But Burnham preferred to beat up migrants with a lie about housing rather than
argue about public investment or take on powerful developers.

Maybe Ed Miliband gets it. He said: "We were too slow to recognise the squeezed
living standards people faced and the centrality of housing."

Sounds good - but oh no!

He goes on to say that "this explains the heightened concern about immigration."

So Miliband, following the same lie, argues for capping immigration, not
building houses.

What about Ed Balls? He also said immigration was the top issue, arguing that
the voters were saying: "Look what it's doing to my community, to my child's job
prospects, our housing queues."

If a voter did tell Balls that immigrants had stolen his council house, he did
have the option to tell them that this wasn't true.

He could have said that the only way of getting new council houses was, er,
building new council houses. But arguing for progressive policies that use
public money for public good? The Labour leadership seems to think this is too
hard.

So it is missing a chance to take on the coalition because it is too busy trying
to bash immigrants. It's bad for the Labour Party and, worse, this poison could
seep into the broader movement.

It's almost as if Labour's top boys know that they can't really promise social
change and think a few reactionary gestures will do instead.

Sometimes this is called "populism," which is unfair because the original
populists were 19th century radical US farmers who actually initially resisted
the country's pervasive racism.

It is also inaccurate, as the really anti-immigrant parties - the BNP and Ukip -
were unsuccessful in the last election. So mainstream Labour is opting for
unpopular populism instead of fighting for housing.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             June 10, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Stowaway clings to jet's landing gear on 97-minute f light;
...And then British police let him go free

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 541 words


A STOWAWAY who hid in the landing gear of a private jet to Britain was allowed
to walk free after police ruled there was "no immigration issue".

The 20-year-old Romanian was arrested at Heathrow on Sunday morning after he
fell on to the ground from the undercarriage of a Boeing 747 from Austria.

But the man, who told officers he was looking for a job, was released.

A Met Police spokesman said: "He was given a police caution and released with no
further action. There are no immigration issues because he is allowed to stay in
this country."

The Home Office said he had not committed any immigration offence as "although
he said he came here to find work he has not started work yet".

Scandal As an EU citizen he was entitled to enter Britain legally, but Romanians
must apply for an Accession Worker card before undertaking any work, according
to the UK Border Agency.

Last night UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "This is an absolute scandal.

"Yet again this shows the inability of this or any government to control our
borders while we remain members of the EU."

The Romanian authorities yesterday refused to release the identity of the
stowaway, who was "lucky" to survive.

He suffered severe hypothermia after enduring temperatures of minus 41C and a
lack of oxygen during the 97-minute flight. And aviation experts claimed he only
survived because bad weather forced the jet to fly lower than the usual
37,000ft.

The Romanian told police he crawled under the perimeter fence at Vienna Airport
and climbed into the undercarriage of the jet which belongs to a highranking
sheikh from the United Arab Emirates.

Austrian police chief Leo Lauber said: "Initial inquiries seem to indicate he
wanted to go abroad to find work.

"After wriggling under the fence he headed for the nearest aircraft. He had no
idea where it was going."

Mr Lauber added: "He only survived because the jet flew under 25,000ft due to
weather conditions. Any higher and he would have frozen to death or died through
lack of oxygen.

"If he had the misfortune to stow away on a transAtlantic flight, it would have
been his last.

"Authorities in the UK have informed us that he sustained severe hypothermia and
various injuries from the landing gear."

Survival Aviation expert Sidney Dekker from Lund University in Sweden said: "Due
to specific circumstances of this flight, he is lucky, because survival in these
cases in quite rare.

"But on another level, this incident also illustrates the absurdities of
security checks."

Other jet stowaways have not been so fortunate. In 2002, police found a body of
a man by the runway at Heathrow after he had fallen from a jet's undercarriage.

In 2001 the body of a man fell into a Homebase car park in Richmond, south-west
London, after the pilot lowered its landing gear en route to the airport.

Two Cuban stowaways fell to their deaths in a similar way near Gatwick in
2000.The bodies of two boys were discovered frozen in the wheels of a Ghana
Airways flight to Heathrow in 2002.

However, in 1997, Indian Pardeep Saini, 22, survived a 10-hour flight from Delhi
to Heathrow as a stowaway. His brother Vijay died of hypothermia.

And in 1996 a stowaway was found alive in the baggage hold of a British Airways
jet at Heathrow after a flight from Delhi.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 9, 2010 Wednesday 5:44 PM GMT

Labour's next leader must come clean about non-EU immigration

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 927 words


A couple of months in politics is a very long time indeed. On April 19,the New
Statesman's Reporter At Large column was busy playing the race card, recoiling
in horror because "now that British politcans across the board are talking about
immigration as a threat, lasting damage has been done." It did not say what had
been damaged.

By May 27 Mary Riddell was telling us in The Telegraph that the NuLab leadership
hopeful, Andy Burnham, was "willing to tackle controversial issues" - and there
they were, all over the page.  Mr Burnham hastened to claim immigration as his
very own issue. It seems that his working class roots have made him "more
critical than his rivals of Labour's failure to understand worries about
immigration." Indeed he came out of the multicultural, multiracial closet as
though he had picked up the dreaded sound of a dog whistle.  "We were all in
denial. We were behind the issue all the time... There's still an ambivalence
among some in Labour about discussing immigration," said Mr Burnham.

Ed Balls was clearly waiting for the focus groups to report on Mr Burnham's
dmarche before coming out himself, by  telling listeners to the BBC Politics
Show that he had tried to put Gordon Brown right about the issue.  "On
immigration, I said to him that you should be talking about immigration for the
last year and a half and that we were making a mistake by brushing it under the
carpet," he said. We shall never know whether he said it loud enough for Mr
Brown to hear, but on hearing him on the Politics show, the assistant general
secretary of Unite rushed to add, "Ed Balls is absolutely correct."

Of course, Mr Balls was anxious to say that he was not in any way racist, so his
remarks were consequently directed at the immigration of white Christians from
theEuropeanUnion.  It seems, then, that is he is against the immigration that we
are legally bound to accept and which - short of leaving the EU - we cannot
avoid, but that he has no worries about immigration from the rest of the world.
It is those dreadful Poles and Czechs and Slovaks who come here to work and to
fill our Churches who are the problem, he implies.  The sort who if they can't
find work here, or if they have worked and saved long enough to buy a house or a
share in a business at home, return to their families in Europe. And let's not
forget those who stay and have descendents like the Milibands or Mr Clegg, or
even Mr Howard.

I can't help wondering if, as the contest becomes so intense that a low-grade
fool tries to improve his prospects by saying that he would have like to have
succeded where  NuLab's friends in the IRA/Sinn Fein failed in their attempt to
murder Margaret Thatcher, one of the contestants will dare to notice that not
all our immigration problems spring from the EU.

I can hardly wait to see how The New Statesmen and The Guardian are going to
handle the sight of Labour's leadership hopefulls trying to outbid each other on
immigration.  I suppose it will not be too critical provided that they preserve
a little "ambivalence", as Mr Burnham would call it, and refrain from mentioning
the immigration that their Government had the power to stop but encouraged, in
order to achieve the Blairite NuLab project to change British society for ever.

...

I am afraid I am still not quite up to speed on the new system of posting
comments here and I wonder what has happened to some of my old friends who have
not yet made it back onto the screen, but I do look forward to some conversation
with 'robbydot's Labrador.

I should start by thanking 'instantsaver' for the link to 'The Flotilla Choir'.
I have not laughed so much for a long time, but I wonder if the folk responsible
were fired or promoted.

I noticed a post from 'bersher' whch has now disappeared and I think we would
agree that there are too many 'Israel can do no wrong' and too many 'Israel can
do no right' people around.  My comments were deliberately framed to avoid
coming down entirely on one side or another.

As to 'laveenladharem's question on the standard of political leadership these
days, I suppose my blog above gives a hint at my thoughts.  Oh for an Attlee or
a Bevin to contest the Labour leadership, rather than creatures like McDonnell
(who has only today decided to withdraw).

Perhaps the modern media make that impossible... although Thatcher did it.Maybe
we see too much of our leaders - as they say, no man is a hero to his
valet.'ruralidiot' asked why I continued to support the Conservative Party.
Well, think about it.  Perhaps if I had defected to UKIP we would still have
Brown as Prime Minister but no UKIP MPs.No, 'pwrplan',  UKIP is a perfectly
sensible party.  It's time may yet come.

It was kind of 'Thomas Rossetti' to suggest that I might start my own blog.It is
in my mind, but I could hardly advertise it here!

Outsourcing was raised by both 'Alternative viewpoint' and 'mrcheny'.  There is
no doubt that it often makes sense, but taken too far, and I think BP has taken
it too far, it has real dangers as the parent organisation simply loses it
ability to be an independent entity.  As to getting the best out of the
characteristics of the private and public sectors, that has become very
difficult as the private sector has been become more and more characterised by
the big PLCs and sadly the public sector has lost its ethos of public service
and is more and more about jobsworths career prospects.

Finally, thank you 'adam smith' for pointing out that Transocean is a Swiss
company.  As to my thoughts on Turkey, I think that is for another day.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              June 8, 2010 Tuesday

Ed Balls must find room for romance amid EU ambivalence

BYLINE: Ivo Petkovskiguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 816 words

ABSTRACT

Ivo Petkovski: Balls says he is a 'hard-headed' not 'romantic' pro-European, but
Labour must stop edging away from the continent

FULL TEXT

In last weekend's Observer,  his philosophy of "pro-European realism". As an
exercise in political positioning, the piece does the job of placing him
squarely in the middle ground - the natural habitat of the politician seeking
office. In the context of the immigration debate, he comes across as honest
about past mistakes, and clear on the way forward. However, in the wider debate
about the UK's relationship with Europe, Balls's remarks follow a familiar path,
which should give pause to those of us who support the long-term European
project.

I realise that Balls needs to be seen as being at least slightly Eurosceptic
(ahem, Euro-realistic) since that's the way the wind of public opinion is
blowing. But at the same time, he bluntly states: "I am a strong pro-European."
In fact, that is his stated "starting point" as a Labour leadership candidate.
Despite that, Balls devotes about three short sentences to the benefits of the
EU, with the rest of the article being about the potential downsides.

This particular brand of Euro-ambivalence was a defining characteristic of New
Labour's approach to the EU question. Tony Blair  that the EU "is a union of
values, of solidarity between nations and people ... not just a common market in
which we trade". Four years later,  he was "proud to be British and proud to be
European". Balls amends that slightly: "I know, like most of my fellow citizens,
that I am British before I am European." The three statements in succession show
a party edging away from the continent.

Despite the occasional sweet-nothings uttered in Brussels, New Labour failed to
sell the potential benefits of the EU back in Britain. Their deep reluctance to
engage on this question allowed strongly Eurosceptic voices to enthusiastically
fill the void, such as Ukip, certain unreconstructed Tories, and their
cheerleaders in the rightwing press. Labour never managed to create a real
debate around it (and yes, for lack of trying), instead ceding all the ground to
the Eurosceptics. It would be a shame if they were to continue in that vein in
opposition.

At this point it seems fair to ask: what are the potential benefits of greater
EU integration? According to Balls: "Europe is our best platform to win the
global argument for an open and fair world." I agree. To ask whether the UK
should be in the EU is the same as asking whether the UK should have a role on
the world stage in the decades to come. How you answer that question largely
depends on what you intuitively believe - personally, I think that the UK, along
with the rest of the EU, can and should influence future debates on key global
issues such as climate change, nuclear proliferation, or distribution of wealth.
There will be no future global role for the UK without further integration into
some supranational Euro-entity.

By offering economic benefits to aspiring EU members, the EU is able to demand
reforms in return, which can improve the lives of millions of Europeans. The UK
should play an active role in that process - despite the "going-to-the-dogs"
grumbling, the UK is a highly successful nation, economically and politically.
We should strive to ensure that all of Europe attains a minimum living standard
comparable to our own.

Balls claims to be a "pro-European of the hard-headed rather than romantic
variety". Ok, but there's a place for a bit of romance in this argument too, on
both sides. Euroscepticism is fed in large part by the romantic notion of
British exceptionalism - in the words of Margaret Thatcher: "God separated
Britain from mainland Europe, and it was for a purpose." That was in 1999, and
many still hold to the same view now, encouraged by the rightwing press and
commentariat.

The nations that make up the British Isles are European. Historically,
culturally, geographically, ideologically: the UK is comprised of distinctly
European nations and cultures. The story of Britain and the story of Europe have
always been intertwined, and not always peacefully. It may be a romantic view,
but it seems right and correct that the same joint narrative should be projected
into the future, but on a peaceful and co-operative grounding.

Despite being the most pro-EU mainstream party, the Liberal Democrats did not
wring any meaningful concessions from their Conservative coalition partners with
regards to Europe. The appointment of the historically Eurosceptic William Hague
as foreign secretary gives some measure of the Tories' own view on the matter.
For these reasons, it is especially important that the Labour party now do what
they manifestly failed to do in their 13 years in government: make a clear and
strong argument for greater UK participation in the EU.

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 8, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Reading your data, by the back door;
City Diary

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 176 words


Allegations of skullduggery at the European Commission from Godfrey Bloom, MEP.
He is a former Mercury Asset Management fund manager we have met here before who
was elected to the European Parliament for UKIP. He tells me there is an
agreement to allow the US to access personal banking data of British and other
European citizens. The plan has been rejected by Parliament but is being sneaked
in by the back door, he says.

It has to do with an EU banking messaging network known as Swift.

Bloom claims that the proposals have been put to MEPs in the week they are away
on constituency business. "It would be like a piece of Westminster information
coming out for MPs to view while they are in recess."

Crucially, he says, if the Americans are allowed access to confidential
information, there is no way the arrangement will be reciprocal. After Mercury,
Bloom ran a financial adviser. "I retired in 2004 to devote myself to the
standardisation of tractor seats and the straightening of carrots." And of
you're own free will, too, I point out. "I must be a loony."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              June 7, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Ukip's show of neighbourliness;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uktelegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker ; Laura Roberts

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 139 words


Following Viscount Monckton's appointment last week as joint deputy leader of
Ukip, he pledged to travel up and down the country listening to the concerns of
members.

However, he won't need to venture nearly so far to consult with Lord Pearson of
Rannoch, the party's leader, since the two men are neighbours in Pitlochry in
Scotland. Lord Pearson tells me: "He lives on the south side of Loch Rannoch and
I live at the west end. We take it in turns to have each other over for dinner
to talk about policy." Lord Monckton says: "There's a long tradition of
friendship and politics. We have long shared the ideal of radical democracy."

Lord Monckton is joint deputy leader with David Cambell Bannerman. The MEP is
unlikely to make many of these cosy dinner parties as he is rather less
conveniently located in Essex.

Edited by Laura Roberts

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 7, 2010 Monday

Britain - 'We must unite to stop the war on Muslims';
Islam called 'last acceptable target of racism' at fightback conference

BYLINE: Lizzie Cocker

LENGTH: 384 words


Activists, journalists and trade unionists have urged communities nationwide to
fight the "last socially acceptable form of racism" - Islamophobia.

At Saturday's Stop Islamophobia conference, supported by an array of
organisations including Stop the War Coalition, the British Muslim Initiative
and Unite, speakers highlighted the relationship between daily attacks on
Muslims promoted by mainstream politics and the media and the "war on terror."

Conference heard that paranoia over Islam and the "mushrooming" of the English
Defence League "were no accident."

Respect councillor Salma Yaqoob said Islamophobic attitudes were not just the
preserve of far-right parties like the BNP and Ukip but were entrenched in
mainstream political discourse.

"It's shocking that a country like Switzerland that we associate with being
neutral and progressive is so paranoid that it is banning the building of any
more mosques with minarets, even though there's only four in the country," she
said.

Journalist Seumas Milne said the current situation where "white male politicians
in Europe are dictating to women what to wear in the cause of freedom and
liberal values" evoked British and French colonial history in north Africa.

He said: "They were trying to ban the hijab in the supposed cause of progress
and freedom, but actually in the cause of empire and repression.

"In its modern incarnation Islamophobia is the direct result and ideological
underpinning of modern imperial wars, of occupation and intervention."

Former Guantanamo Bay detainee Moazzam Begg, himself a victim of the rise in
attacks on Muslims, described how Islamophobic attitudes have meant Muslims have
suffered disproportionately from control orders, detention without trial,
harassment by intelligence services and "anti-terror legislation, measures and
ideas the likes of which we have never seen before."

Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn stressed the importance of highlighting links between
imperialist wars, the rise in refugees seeking asylum from those war-torn
countries, the recession and the rise of fascistic attitudes.

"This is an issue about identity, culture, race and it is also an issue about
class solidarity - to protect services, to protect jobs and protect our society
from those that seek to drive it apart."

lizziecocker@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 37 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 6, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Please, carry on filming - I'm only burning to death

BYLINE: JEREMY CLARKSON

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 982 words


With the next series of Top Gear just weeks away, we are in a frantic race
against time to finish off all the films. I won't say what they're about here,
though, because obviously you already know. This is because every single thing
we do is photographed and videoed by passers-by. And then either posted on the
internet or sold to the newspapers.

Now that everyone has a camera in their pocket all the time, everyone is a
paparazzo, and that has changed my life completely. I'm not complaining because,
obviously, life will be a lot more worrying when the attention stops. But, that
said, could I please make a small request.

When you stop me in the street to ask for a photograph, have some clue about how
your phone camera works. That way, when you ask a witless passer-by to take a
photograph of us, he won't spend 20 minutes holding it the wrong way round and
taking endless shots of his own nose.

There's another annoyance, too.

Yesterday I was snapped walking up Holland Park Avenue, going into Tesco, buying
eggs, driving up the M40 and relieving myself in Oxford services. I'm not
joking. I turned round while I was having a pee to find a lorry driver filming
me.

Doubtless, this riveting scene is already on YouTube. Unless, of course, the
chap wants it for some kind of bizarre private collection.

I feel fairly sure that if I were to catch fire, no one would try to beat out
the flames or find an extinguisher. They'd simply record the event on their
phones.

You think I'm being silly? Well, you may recall that in the run-up to the
election, the former UKIP leader Nigel Farage decided to tow a banner behind a
plane, urging people to, I don't know, stamp on a bratwurst. Unfortunately, the
banner got entangled in the plane's tailfin and it crashed.

I'm certain you recall the photographs of him in the wreckage, with blood
pouring down his face, and of the pilot, seriously injured in the seat next to
him.

Now here's the strange thing. Someone took those photographs. Someone raced to
the scene, saw two injured men hanging upside down and thought: "I know. I'll
get my camera out and take a picture of this."

Of course, it's possible that the person responsible was a professional
photographer, in which case the boundaries are blurred. It is a professional
photographer's job to record events, not shape them. But I think this mainly
applies during periods of civil unrest and war.

However, it is also possible the person responsible was a bank manager or an
accountant. And I don't know about you but I think if I were presented with a
badly injured man in the wreckage of a plane - no matter how much I disagreed
with his opinions - I'd think about neck braces and mouth-to-mouth and fuel
leaks rather than exposures and angles and what some pictures might be worth.

We saw a similar problem recently with the sun-dried baby on the beach. Someone
decided that the best way of helping the poor infant, who suffered 40% burns,
was to take some pictures of him.

And then you have those people - and for some reason they're almost always
German - who think it's a good idea to climb over the security fences at zoos.
Maybe they think the leopard or the tiger looks cute but, of course, as soon as
they're actually in there, they quickly realise that it wasn't such a good idea
after all. Usually, as the creature is eating their leg.

What would you do if you saw someone being eaten in a zoo? Throw things at the
animal? Try to find a rope so what's left of the person can climb out? Yes. I'd
do something like that, too. But most people, if the internet is anything to go
by, whip out their cameras and make a grisly little film.

It's almost certain these days that if you got into trouble while swimming in
the sea, you would not be rescued. The police, as we know, are not allowed to
help. David Hasselhoff is gone. And onlookers would simply take out their
phones. You'll get your 15 minutes of fame, all right. But it will be the last
15 minutes you ever have.

What the camera does, of course, is detach the onlooker from the events
unfurling in front of them. There's a sense as you operate it that you are
watching the scene unravel on television and that, as a result, you are unable
to help. In short, cameras dehumanise humanity.

But there is an upside. Because in recent years I've noticed that "news" is not
what's happened. It's what's happened on camera.

If a herd of tigers runs amok in a remote Indian village, it's not news. If a
gang of wide-eyed rebels slaughters the inhabitants of a faraway African
village, it's not news. But if it's a bit windy in America, it is news. Because
in America everything that happens is recorded.

I find myself wondering if last week's Israeli raid on a Turkish ship in a
flotilla carrying aid to Gaza would have had the coverage it did if the battle
hadn't been captured on film. And likewise the racing driver who broke a leg
after crashing in the Indy 500. It only became a big deal because we could watch
the accident from several angles in slow motion.

In recent months this phenomenon has even spread to the natural world. I mean
it. When an animal does something normal, it's not news. But when it is "caught
on camera" doing something normal, then it's in the Daily Mail. These days, if
you snap an owl catching a mouse, you are Robert Capa.

In the end, this can only be good for all of us. Figures out recently show that
more people in India have access to a mobile phone than a lavatory. Soon, it
will be the same story in China and Africa. And then, when all the world's being
filmed, all of the time, we can go back to a time when news was something
interesting rather than something we can simply see.

That way, I wouldn't have to spend half my morning looking at pictures of Twiggy
going shopping. And an eagle eating a fish.

'I turned round while I was having a pee to find a lorry driver filming me.
Doubtless, it is already on YouTube'

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

NEW FLOOD OF ½m MIGRANTS HEADING TO UK

BYLINE: NICK FAGGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 236 words


BRITAIN was last night warned to expect a new wave of immigration from Eastern
Europe.

A law change in Hungary has given almost half a million Ukrainians and Serbians
the right to live, work and claim benefits in the UK.

Anyone who can speak the language or prove Hungarian ancestry can now become a
citizen and get a full EU passport. It means they are eligible to work - or
claim benefits - in Britain.

Last night there was anger that Britain's borders were being opened to yet more
Eastern Europeans.

UKIP Euro-MP Gerard Batten said: "It must be wrong the Hungarian government can
give almost half a million people the right to move to Britain."

More than 150,000 ethnic Hungarians live in Ukraine and almost 300,000 live in
Serbia, where residents usually face strict restrictions on moving to Britain.

Law

Sir Andrew Green of MigrationWatchUK said: "This is a consequence of the
previous government's decision to open our borders to all EU citizens whatever
their origin."

Last night the Home Office claimed the new Hungarian law would not affect the
UK.

The Star Says: Page 6 news@dailystar.co.uk

SHOULD WE STOP THESE NEW MIGRANTS?

YES: 0901 030 0986

NO: 0901 030 0987

If you want to use SMS text: Yes text DSYES to 80088 No text DSNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline.Texts cost 25p plus network rate. Lines close
at midnight. A huge 95% of Daily Star readers reckon Muslim hate preacher Zakir
Naik should be banned.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INFLUX: Eastern Europeans queue for Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday

Borders opened to more migrants

BYLINE: EMMA CAIRNS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 181 words


BRITAIN was last night warned to expect a new wave of immigration from Eastern
Europe.

A law change in Hungary has given almost half a million Ukrainians and Serbians
the right to live, work and claim benefits in the UK.

Anyone who can speak the language or prove Hungarian ancestry can now become a
citizen and get a full EU passport.

It means they are eligible to work - or claim benefits - in Britain.

Border Last night there was anger that Britain's borders were being opened to
yet more Eastern Europeans.

UKIP Euro-MP Gerard Batten said: "It must be wrong that the Hungarian government
can give almost half a million people the right to move to Britain."

More than 150,000 ethnic Hungarians live in the Ukraine and almost 300,000 live
in Serbia, where residents usually face strict restrictions on moving to
Britain.

Sir Andrew Green of MigrationWatchUK said: "This is a consequence of the
previous government's decision to open our borders to all EU citizens whatever
their origin."

Last night the Home Office claimed that the new Hungarian law would not affect
the UK.

The Star Says: Page 6

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Their laws affect Britain

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 140 words


There was once a happy time when one didn't have to care one way or the other
about laws passed in the hungarian parliament. no longer. The tentacles of eU
membership reach everywhere.

This new law says that anyone who can speak hungarian or prove hungarian
ancestry can become a hungarian citizen and with that comes a full eU passport.

It is estimated that many Ukrainians and Serbians will be able to make such a
claim with a strong chance that up to half a million new hungarians - who are
also eU citizens - will be making their way to these shores. They will be
looking for work and they will also have the right to claim benefits As the UKIP
euro-MP Gerald Batten succinctly puts it: "hungary and any eU state has more
control of our immigration policy than we do". The home Office has made light of
these concerns. It is wrong to do so.

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 37 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              June 1, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

New wave of migrants win right to flood UK

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 583 words


BRITAIN was last night warned to expect a new wave of immigration from Eastern
Europe after almost half a million Ukrainians and Serbians were given the right
to live, work and claim benefits in the UK.

Controversial rules passed by the Hungarian parliament mean that anyone who can
speak the nation's language or prove they have Hungarian ancestry can become a
citizen and get a full EU passport.

This means they will be granted full employment rights in the UK and access to
British benefits.

Now it is feared that tens of thousands of the "new citizens" will flee the dire
economic situation in Eastern Europe for the UK's lucrative job market and
generous welfare system.

Last night there was anger that Britain's borders were being opened to yet more
migrants from Eastern Europe.

UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "It must be wrong that the Hungarian government
can give almost half a million people the right to move to Britain." Over two
million ethnic Hungarians live outside the state's current borders, with most
living in neighbouring Romania and Slovakia.

However, more than 150,000 live in western Ukraine and almost 300,000 live in
northeast Serbia where residents face strict immigration restrictions to Britain
and other EU states. Ethnic Hungarians may choose to work in Budapest and other
major cities in central Europe.

But the economy has been left in tatters by the economic crisis and Hungarians
have been banned from working in most EU states except Britain until next year.

The economic situation in the Ukraine and Serbia is even worse with crippling
low wages and up to 30 per cent unemployment.

Tens of thousands of Hungarians came to the UK among more than a million workers
after the Accession 8 countries - Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia,
Hungary, Czech Republic and Slovenia - joined the EU in 2005.

Citizens from A8 countries have the right to work in Britain and can claim
handouts, including child benefit.

Mr Batten said: "Our new Government says it wants to control immigration from
outside the EU but it cannot do that.

"Hungary has just given 450,000 people the right to come to Britain, use the
social services and claim benefits if they want to, and there is nothing our
Government can do about it. Hungary, and any EU state, has more control of our
immigration policy than we do. This just shows how powerless we are to control
immigration inside the EU."

Sir Andrew Green of MigrationWatchUK said: "At present each EU country has the
right to decide who may be citizens.

"Unfortunately, in the case of the A8 countries, this also gives them the right
to work in Britain.

This is another consequence of the previous government's decision, almost alone
in Europe, to open our borders to all EU citizens whatever their origin."

Matthew Elliott, of the Tax-Payers' Alliance said: "The possibility of yet more
people travelling to the UK to escape the recession in their own countries is
particularly worrying, and we simply cannot afford it with our finances being in
such a poor state."

Last night the Home Office claimed that the new Hungarian citizenship law would
not affect the UK. A Home Office spokesman said: "There is no evidence to
suggest that decisions made by the Hungarian parliament will impact on the
United Kingdom."

Q Should we let in these migrants?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUeYes to 80088 No text DXTUeNo to 80088 Calls cost 25p from a BT
landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator
rates

LOAD-DATE: June 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved
