
                               1 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            February 28, 2010 Sunday

MORE SEX EDUCATION MEANS MORE TEENAGE PREGNANCIES...ALWAYS

BYLINE: BY PETER HITCHENS

LENGTH: 1144 words


SEX education has failed. So the Establishment decrees that we must have more of
it, and in fact that there shall be no escape from it. What I don't grasp is why
the people of this country put up with so many separate insults to their
intelligence in any given week. And why this particular blatantly obvious
sequence comes round year by year and nobody even laughs, let alone draws the
correct conclusion.

Despite the casual massacre of unborn babies in the abortion mills, and the free
handouts of morning-after pills (originally developed for pedigree dogs which
had been consorting improperly with mongrels), and the ready issue of condoms to
anyone who asks, and the prescription of contraceptive devices to young girls
behind the backs of their parents by smiling advice workers, and the invasion of
school classrooms by supposedly educational smut, the Teenage Pregnancy Strategy
has failed, is failing and will continue to fail.

In the week that figures clearly showed that the Government's supposed target
for cutting teen pregnancy by half is never going to be reached, compulsory smut
education ñ a key part of this 'strategy' ñ was forced on all English schools by
law for the first time. There will be no opt-outs. The new liberal gospel of 'do
what thou wilt ñ but wear a condom while thou doest it' will be taught by order
of the State.

Some years ago, I wrote a short history of sex education in this country. I
didn't then know about its first invention, during the Hungarian Soviet
revolution of 1919, when Education Commissar George Lukacs ordered teachers to
instruct children about sex in a deliberate effort to debauch Christian
morality.

But what I found was this. That the people who want it are always militant
Leftists who loathe conventional family life; that the pretext for it has always
been the same ñ a supposed effort to reduce teen pregnancy and sexual disease;
and that it has always been followed by the exact opposite.

It was introduced into schools against much parental resistance during the early
Fifties. And, yes, the more of it there was, the more under-age and extramarital
sex there seemed to be.

By 1963, in Norwich, parents were told that their young were to be instructed in
sexual matters because the illegitimacy rate in that fine city had reached an
alarming 7.7 per cent (compared with a national rate of 5.9 per cent). The
national rate is now 46 per cent and climbing, so that was obviously a success,
wasn't it?

Well, yes it was, because the people who force these peculiar classes on our
young are lying about their aims. You can see why. Most of us, in any other
circumstance, would be highly suspicious of adults who wanted to talk about sex
to other people's children. But by this sleight of hand ñ that they are somehow
being protected from disease and unwanted pregnancy ñ we are tricked into
permitting it.

And our civilised society goes swirling down the plughole of moral chaos.

NASTIEST OF THE NASTY BULLIES? THATWOULD BE YOU, DAVE

THE problem with Gordon Brown is not his character, his temper or his manners.
It is his politics. If he were a good Prime Minister, we would forgive him his
personal failings. Which is why it was silly for David Cameron to call
grandiosely for an inquiry into gossip about Mr Brown's treatment of
subordinates. This is not proper politics, and it demeans us.

I said on my blog on Monday that Mr Cameron had better watch out in case people
started asking questions about his own actions. And within hours, a person
(whose identity I now know, though he has asked me to keep it confidential)
posted the following comment: 'Cameron is far from blameless. I had the
misfortune to work for him for a couple of months just after he was appointed to
the Shadow Education brief in 2005.

'Rudeness and inconsideration were his stock in trade with repeated attempts to
humiliate me in front of others. Middle-of-the-night phone calls to pick up on
adverse Press comment were not uncommon ñ much of it stemming from his own
inability to clear a "lineto-take" in time for newspaper deadlines. Several
colleagues often asked why I put up with it. Being an ex-journalist myself, I've
worked for some nasty types in the past . . . he was undoubtedly the nastiest.'

I think this might help us get the matter back into proportion.

I ALSO noted that Mr Brown was quoted as complaining that Comrade Dr John Reid,
the menacing Brezhnev-era communist who somehow became a Cabinet Minister, was
'far too Right-wing' to be Premier. Golly. If Comrade Dr Reid was 'too
Rightwing', where does Mr Brown think the 'centre' is?

SWIPE AT THE TORIES HITS RIGHT HOME

STUART WHEELER, once the largest donor to the Tory Party, has been cast into
outer darkness for supporting UKIP instead. Now he has written an interesting
and powerful study of the MPs' expenses row, which among other things points out
the terrifying centralised powers that party leaders now possess.

But I specially enjoyed this passage: 'I have nothing against anyone who is
fortunate enough to live in a nice house in the country. I do myself. But I
cannot for the life of me see why, were I an MP, you should have to help finance
that.'

Quite so. Which rather well-off party leader could he possibly be referring to?

SO WHERE'S OUR DE GAULLE?

LET'S stop pretending we have a 'special relationship' with the USA, and treat
America the way France's General de Gaulle used to. They'll respect us for it,
as they respected him. Here's the first thing we should do, which I am sure the
great General would have done.

Washington refuses to back us against Latin America's renewed campaign to make
us hand over the Falklands and their people to the Banana Republic of Argentina.
Right then, we should immediately take all our troops and equipment out of
Afghanistan, and put them on boats and planes to Port Stanley, leaving
nothing-behind but a few empty baked-bean tins. Any politician willing to pledge
this will win the Election, by the way. This one-sided ' relationship' is far
more unpopular than they realise.

TALKING of Latin America, isn't it interesting that all its leaders are willing
to lecture us about the Falklands, where the people are free and happy. But most
of them won't dare criticise the disgusting prison island of Cuba, where a brave
dissident, Orlando Zapata, has just died after an 86-day hunger strike.

THE WEIRDO IN WONDERLAND

ALICE In Wonderland gets better as you get older and understand the jokes more
clearly. With modern technology, you could actually make a film of it that was
faithful to the text. But no, we can't have that. We live in the age of
deconstruction and the post-modern, where nothing can be left as it is. The
serial weirdo Tim Burton has instead been let loose on this classic, and appears
to have turned it into 'Willy Wonka meets The Lord Of The Rings'. Who needs
this? Does anyone really want to see it?

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               February 28, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW TV AND RADIO; Pg. 53

LENGTH: 307 words


6.05 Sali Mali (R) 7249891 6.10 Hoobs (R) 9152636 & 9100907 7.00 Freshly
Squeezed 54655 7.30 Everybody Loves Raymond (R) 8834605 & 2457278 8.20 Frasier
(R) 7713384 8.50 Will & Grace (R) 3484384 9.20 According to Jim 7386758 9.45
Deal or No Deal (R) 5478544 10.35 Coach Trip (R) 2408636 11.10 Without a Trace
(R) 9140100 12.00 News 1094097 12.05 The Old People's Home Show (R) 8436891 1.05
Party Girl (1958) Crime drama with Robert Taylor, Cyd Charisse and Lee J Cobb.
29502810 2.55 Glamour Puds 3959655 3.25 Countdown 5621617 4.10 Deal or No Deal
9982758 5.00 Coach Trip 4723 5.30 Come Dine with Me Extra Portions 568

6.00 The Simpsons Goo Goo

Gai Pan (T) (R) 181

6.30 Hollyoaks (T) 433

7.00 News (T) 738297

7.55 The Political Slot UKIP 646100

8.00 Country House Rescue (T) New series. Ruth Watson returns to offer her
advice to owners of stately homes. She meets Cornelia Bayley, owner of Jacobean
mansion Plas Teg in Flintshire, which has remained virtually unchanged since
1610. 4297

9.00 My Daughter Grew Another Head and Other True Life Stories (T) See choice,
above. 4433

10.00 Alan Carr: Chatty Man (T) Ant and Dec, John Barrowman and Supernanny Jo
Frost talk to the comedian. Music comes from Brit award-winner Ellie Goulding
(above) who performs her single "Starry Eyed". 955549

10.50 Hung Great Sausage or Can I Call You Dick? (T) Tanya begins marketing Ray
as a top-end "happiness consultant". 440452

11.25 Hung Strange Friends or The Truth Is, You're Sexy (T) Ray's neighbour
Koontz files a complaint against him. 796758

12.00 Chris Moyles's Quiz Night (R) 5827834 12.50 Alone in the Wild (R) 4038747
1.45 Into That Good Night (R) 82056 2.15 Dancing Under the Dustcover (R) 7848327
2.30 The Dead Zone Panic 3672650 3.10 The War at Home 86154308 3.30 Generation
XXL (R) 3364476 4.25 The Bible: A History (R) 5935747 5.20 Countdown (R) 1423655


LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK THAT WAS

BYLINE: PAUL CLEMENTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 916 words


STARVED TO DEATH

Seven-year-old Khyra Ishaq, who was held captive in her home and starved to
death by her mother and her partner, might still be alive had she not been
failed by social services in Birmingham, according to a senior judge.

Khyra weighed just 2st 9lbs when she died in May 2008, having developed
bronchopneumonia and septicaemia following weeks of neglect. Along with her five
siblings, she had been deprived of food and subjected to beatings. Shortly
before her death, two social workers had been refused entry to the family home
during a pre-arranged visit.

The damning verdict on Khyra's death, with its chilling echoes of the Baby Peter
case, was delivered by High Court judge Mrs Justice King on the 10th anniversary
of the death of Victoria Climbié, the eightyear-old who was also starved to
death by her guardians.

FRAGILE RECOVERY

Britain is emerging from the recession faster than previously imagined. Figures
published by the Office for National Statistics revealed that the economy
expanded by 0.3 per cent in the final quarter of 2009, largely due to a strong
performance from the services sector.

Yet the recovery remains fragile. House prices, which had been showing signs of
growth, fell for the first time in 10 months. Economists now fear that any
upward momentum in GDP could be hit by the VAT hike, which came into effect last
month, and the cost of the snow chaos.

AFGHAN TOLL RISES

As the US death toll in Afghanistan reached the grim milestone of 1,000, Nato
aircraft killed 27 civilians after mistakenly targeting a convoy of minibuses
from Day Kundi to Kandahar. Four women and a child were among the dead.

Later, in the first attack on the Afghan capital since the renewed push by
allied forces, 17 people were killed and 38 injured after gunmen and a Taliban
suicide bomber stormed Kabul hotels occupied by Western guests.

WHALE KILLS TRAINER

A killer whale, part of the SeaWorld Orlando attraction in Florida, pulled its
trainer to her death during a performance in front of an audience. Tilikum, a
12,000lb male orca, grabbed 40-year-old Dawn Brancheau by her ponytail and
dragged her underwater as horrified families looked on. The leviathan, which has
spent much of its adult life in captivity, had been involved in the deaths of
two other people at the waterpark since its arrival in 1992.

Meanwhile, in Dubai, a shark-filled aquarium sprang a leak. Visitors to the
walk-through attraction - billed as an "indoor ocean" inside the Burj Khalifa,
the world's tallest building - were soaked as a crack developed in the
2.5m-gallon glass tank containing 33,000 fish, including hundreds of sharks and
stingrays. While none of the underwater beasties escaped, shops on the ground
floor sustained water damage.

MID STAFFS PAY BONUS

A report revealed that senior managers at Stafford Hospital, where 400 patients
died because of cuts to staff and care levels, awarded themselves bumper pay
rises. Board members at the Mid Staffordshire NHS Trust received thousands of
pounds a year extra after successfully steering Stafford Hospital to Foundation
status - even though it was dangerously short-staffed. When Martin Yeates, the
former chief executive of the trust, stepped down prior to a damning Health
Commission report last March, his salary had risen by £24,000 in just two years,
to £169,000. When he left the post, he received six months' severance pay and a
pension pot worth in excess of a million pounds.

SNOW DIVIDEND FOR GAS

Thanks to the coldest winter in 30 years, British Gas reported a 58 per cent
rise in profits, to a record £595 million. Britain's largest energy supplier
immediately faced calls to cut bills following a sharp fall in wholesale prices.

Meanwhile, 2.2 million customers could be penalised for watering their gardens,
washing their cars or filling paddling pools this summer. Southern Water is to
pioneer a ''seasonal tariff'' for the dry summer months. It will mean a rate
rise of 6 per cent between June and September for some metered households in
Hampshire, Sussex and Kent.

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR...

Nigel Farage The MEP for South-East England and former Ukip leader launched an
audacious attack on Herman Van Rompuy, the EU's president, calling him a "damp
rag" with "the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk".

Yorkshire rhubarb The precious harvest of the "rhubarb triangle" between
Bradford, Wakefield and Leeds has won Protected Designation of Origin status,
joining the likes of Parma ham and champagne.

David Mills Tessa Jowell's estranged husband, convicted last year of taking a
£370,000 bribe from Silvio Berlusconi, had his fourand-a-half-year prison
sentence overturned because the charge had "timed out", more than 10 years
having passed since the offence was committed.

AND A BAD ONE FOR...

Wayne Bridge The England defender was branded a wimp for saying he would not
play alongside ex-captain John Terry at the World Cup in South Africa. He did
not rule out a return if Terry, who had an affair with his former girlfriend,
Vanessa Perroncel, was dropped.

Britney Spears (above) A government report recommended that lubricious pop
videos should not be shown before 9pm. Spears's video for Hit Me Baby One More
Time, in which she dresses as a schoolgirl, was singled out for feeding children
"hypersexualised images".

The Canadian women's ice hockey team The IOC has launched an investigation after
the athletes returned to the rink to drink booze, with gold medals still around
their necks. Some of them were not of legal drinking age.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mourning becomes her: the socialite and style provocateur Daphne
Guinness, mantled in a swirling black ensemble, paid her last respects at the
funeral of the fashion designer Alexander McQueen, which was held at St Paul's
church, Knightsbridge, on Thursday
MATRIXPHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               February 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Promise an EU referendum and avoid a hung parliament

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 516 words


SIR - Lord Heseltine is correct to say (report, February 21) that the
Conservatives can't win the general election outright - correct, that is, if
they continue with their present policies.

Ukip is presently hitting a consistent 5 to 7 per cent in opinion polls, mainly
garnered from disaffected Tories. Were David Cameron to commit an incoming
Conservative government to a binding "in or out" referendum on Britain's
relationship with the EU, much of that Ukip vote would go his way. With 45 per
cent of the vote, they would be weighing his majority on polling day, rather
than counting it.

David Cameron is presumably an intelligent man, so he must be able to see this.
Thus his inaction tells you all you need to know about his covert support for
the EU project. As they say up north: "There's none so blind as those that don't
want to see." Keith Ashworth-Lord Rochdale, Lancashire SIR - I remember
listening to Michael Heseltine predict a 30-seat majority for the Conservatives
in the 1997 election, so I wouldn't pay too much heed to his predictions.

Still, his intervention reminds us that the Conservative Party used to be a
comfortable place for pro-Europeans. Ever since the party became dominated by
Eurosceptics, it has performed dismally in general elections. Brian Jenner
Bournemouth, Dorset SIR - Stafford Trendall's letter (February 21) about the
annoyance caused to party members by "Cameron's cuties" identifies one key
weakness of the Conservative Party's selection of parliamentary candidates.

Another relates to the way in which applications to the candidates' list work:
the process is conducted by pleasant and fully committed volunteers, but they
are debarred from knowing anything of the political, personal or professional
history of the applicants they have to vet.

It is made clear to participants on the candidates' assessment course that a
knowledge of Conservative Party policy is not part of the selection process.

"We can teach you that stuff later" is the rule.

Can anyone imagine conducting job interviews on this basis? And this is the
party which says it is ready for government! C.K. Sandy Exeter, Devon SIR - Will
David Cameron end up regretting the decision to parachute selected Central
Office candidates into constituencies against local wishes? Blair's Babes were
not exactly a fantastic success for the Labour Party.

D. Wagon Hemel Hempstead, Hertfordshire SIR - Having just attended the selection
of our future MP I could not disagree more with Mr Trendall. The process
involved each of the seven candidates giving a presentation and answering
questions. Then the vote was taken. If no one received the required 40 per cent,
the applicant with the fewest votes stepped down and the process was repeated
until the 40 per cent was achieved.

It was a very long process, the seats were extremely uncomfortable but there has
to be a method of selection and I cannot think of a fairer one.

The place was eventually won by an attractive, clever lady who spoke clearly and
well. However, to suggest you have to be pretty to win is nonsense.

John Booth Burbage, Wiltshire

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 28, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

The UK Independence party's Nigel [...];
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 88 words


The UK Independence party's Nigel Farage enraged the European parliament by
remarking that the EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, had "the charisma of a damp
rag" (ooh, stop it Nigel, you're such a caution). What sensitive flowers they
must be in Brussels. Say what you like about our own MPs, but their skins are
thicker and their insults more colourful. Here's the late Conservative Sir
Nicholas Fairbairn on women MPs: "They all look as though they're from the 5th
Kiev Stalinist machinegun parade." Van Rompuy got off lightly.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Nasty Nigel 1 Belgium 0

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 132 words


Nigel Farage, the former boss of UKIP, has been taking the mickey out of
Belgium, a country famous for Poirot, chocolate and paedophiles. An awful lot of
opprobrium has descended on him for the crime of dissing Belgium and also the
Belgian European council president Herman Van Rompuy. But what is the point of
UKIP if they are not to be, occasionally, nihilistically xenophobic? Meanwhile
that sane and likeable friend of the West, Colonel Gadaffi, has declared jihad
on Switzerland - something to do with the Swiss abolishing minarets and
arresting members of Gadaffi's barking mad family. I wonder if they take
infidels. I would rather blow myself up in Geneva or Zermatt than do what I
usually do on a Sunday, which is smoke myself stupid, watch Antiques Roadshow
and persecute the children.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

The UK Independence party's [...];
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 76 words


The UK Independence party's Nigel Farage enraged the European parliament by
remarking that the EU president, Herman Van Rompuy, had "the charisma of a damp
rag". What sensitive flowers they must be in Brussels. Say what you like about
our own MPs, but their skins are thicker and their insults more colourful.
Here's the late Conservative Sir Nicholas Fairbairn on women MPs: "They all look
as though they're from the 5th Kiev Stalinist machinegun parade."

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Nasty Nigel 1 Belgium 0

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 140 words


Nigel Farage, the former boss of UKIP, has been taking the mickey out of
Belgium, a country famous for Poirot, chocolate and paedophiles. An awful lot of
opprobrium has descended on him for the crime of dissing Belgium and also the
Belgian European council president Herman Van Rompuy. But what is the point of
UKIP if they are not to be, occasionally, nihilistically xenophobic? Meanwhile
that sane and likeable friend of the West, Colonel Gadaffi, has declared jihad
on Switzerland - something to do with the Swiss abolishing minarets and
arresting members of Gadaffi's barking mad family. I wonder if they take
infidels. I would rather blow myself up in Geneva or Zermatt than do what I
usually do on a Sunday, which is smoke myself stupid, watch Antiques Roadshow
and persecute the children.

Thanks to Nigel Farage you're now a famous Belgian

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 28, 2010 Sunday 3:25 PM GMT

Cameron's speech: We are still looking at the next Prime Minister

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 488 words


David Cameron's speech was delivered well, with passion and wit,and itwill
probably please no one. But that's probably no bad thing.

He correctly identified the economy as the centralissue - voters will forgive a
surprising amount of wrongdoing,whether it'ssocial engineeringor starting wars,
but they won't forgive agovernment that costs them their job.

"Our country is in a complete mess," he said: "Another five years of Gordon
Brown will be a disaster."

The Government is divided and weak, he added, and their internal conflict,
a"dangerous dance of death" as he called it [has he been watching Hammer Horror
films?],was bringing the country down. And, he quipped: "We will unleash the
forces of enterprise, not of hell."

There was family values stuff,which willalarm the "I've never voted Conservative
beforebecause I read theIndependent and my partner works with young offenders"
types.

He said they would be the most pro-family party, and mentioned a young man who
wanted to move in with his pregnant girlfriend but would lose out on benefit. He
mentionedacountry withmillion violent crimes every year and 100 knife crimes a
day.He mentioned aseven-year-old starved to death, andasked of those who deny
there is a problem:"Which bit of 'Broken Society' don't you people understand?"

Peopleare sick of "top-down, bossy, I-know-best approach" of Government, he said
- how true -and he promised to cut a swathe of quangos - which got the biggest
cheer of the speech.

But he also made clear that they had accepted the British culturalrevolution.

"I love the NHS and I will always stand up and protect it", he said, and"We are
the party of the National Health Service". Yes, but it needs drastic reform,
some of us are thinking. And, despite most PPCs being sceptical about this issue
of climate change, he said: "We are the new environmental party"

In front of a multi-cultural, women-heavy podium - which of course reflects the
composition of the party nationwide- he praisedthe party'smodernisation.

"It was you who selected all those brilliant women candidates,"he told the
conference,and, using a phrasethat is actually inthe Guardian style book, "black
and minority ethnic candidates".

He talked about the young Muslim women whohad seen Baroness Warsi "destroy that
ghastly piece of filth, Nick Griffin", and, sounding like John of Gaunt in
aHaringey council remakeof Richard II, he said the party could look at the
people in the face: "This country, our country, this tolerant, brilliant,
compassionate, multi-racial country... This modern Conservative party has made
its choice and is never going back".

So it won't please either UKIP or Green voters butthat probably doesn't matter-
peoplejust want someonewho can run the economy; helooked like someone who could
do it better than Gordon Brown.It wasn't quite Martin Luther King at the Lincoln
Memorial, but it was good, and we arestill looking at the next British prime
minister.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           February 27, 2010 Saturday

LABOUR'S HYPOCRISY OVER MIGRANTS

LENGTH: 1633 words


ANDREW PIERCE REPORTING

THEY'VE PRESIDED OVER THE GREATEST INFLUX OF IMMIGRANTS IN THIS ISLAND'S
HISTORY. BUT THAT HASN'T STOPPED LABOUR MPS TRYING TO WOO VOTERS WITH TACTICS
THAT WOULD SHAME THE BNP

THE carefully-worded letters all send the same sympathetic messages to local
'white families' about the difficulties caused by the record rise in
immigration. Soothing words of comfort are combined with powerful pledges of
action to ease the pressure on jobs, school places and council housing.

'There is a great deal of worry about the pressure on schools, doctors'
surgeries and housing allocations,' reads one of them. 'I want you to help me
keep the pressure up on the Government in relation to reforming and updating our
immigration and citizenship rules and laws.'

Stirring stuff indeed. So which party do you think is promising to fight the
Government on these policy failings? The Conservatives? UKIP, perhaps?

No, with astonishing hypocrisy, these pledges come from the Labour Party itself.
For the authors are senior Labour MPs who fear losing their seats as a result of
the political fall-out from the mass immigration policy that they gladly helped
to implement.

Dozens of these letters from sitting Labour MPs have been passed to the Daily
Mail -- and the authors all have one thing in common. They are fighting for
their political lives because of the threat posed by the odious, far-Right
British National Party.

They include Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary and key ally of Gordon Brown, and
Margaret Hodge, the Culture Minister who is fighting a seat in the East End of
London.

Some of the leaflets sent out to constituents include dubious immigration
questionnaires and promises that local people will be put first in the jobs
queue.

Labour's hypocrisy has come to light only days after the scale of Labour's
deliberate plan to create a multicultural Britain through mass immigration was
revealed.

A draft Cabinet Office report, uncovered by a Freedom of Information request,
showed how, in 2000, Labour ministers deliberately plotted to open the
floodgates to new migrants to achieve the party's 'social objectives'.
Traditionally, new immigrants vote for Left-wing parties.

The document also revealed how those who dared to question this policy would be
branded 'racists'.

Today, however, on the cusp of a General Election, many Labour MPs have realised
that their secret plan has backfired spectacularly. As a result of mass
immigration, many of their core white working-class voters complain that they
feel like second-class citizens in their own communities, and believe that
immigrants are given unfair precedence for jobs and public services.

AS A result, Labour MPs in marginal seats or with a BNP threat are desperately
scrambling to play the race card in a shameless attempt to be seen as acting
tough on immigration after all.

One of the MPs at the heart of the new get-tough policy on immigration in
constituency backyards is Mr Balls, who is the Prime Minister's closest
political friend.

Mr Balls has been at the centre of Cabinet decision-making over the past decade
and will have been only too well aware of Labour's encouragement of a
multicultural Britain.

Mr Balls, a front-runner to succeed Mr Brown as Labour leader, has held two
public meetings and produced direct mail and questionnaires on the immigration
issue in his newly-created Morley and Outwood constituency.

Significantly, the Schools Secretary's Yorkshire constituency is a fertile
breeding ground for the BNP, which already has one BNP councillor and hundreds
of members registered locally.

In his recent constituency newsletter, Mr Balls wrote: 'I want to have a
conversation with you about immigration. What we really need is proper
discussion about the difficulties and benefits that immigration can bring to our
country.'

He admitted that there were 'concerns about jobs in our area', and asked: 'Do
you support updating our immigration laws so that: migrants who want to settle
here must speak English? A probationary period should be passed before they are
able to claim state benefits?' It is a similar story in Barking -- the East
London constituency where BNP leader Nick Griffin is fighting the Culture
Minister Margaret Hodge.

With one of the highest rates of immigration in Britain, Barking has seen a
massive social upheaval as a result of Labour's policy, with many local families
struggling to come to terms with the sheer number of new arrivals from abroad.

Yet in a two-page letter to constituents, Mrs Hodge paints herself as being
tough on immigration, saying that it can be 'very unsettling' for 'predominantly
white' and 'traditional East End families'.

She adds: 'I respect your concerns about the pace of change. It is wrong for
others to dismiss these out of hand and rest assured that you do have my support
on this.'

Earlier this month, Mrs Hodge even suggested that migrants should be forced to
'earn' the right to benefits and council housing over several years. She warned
that British values of tolerance were under threat because of an increasing
sense of 'unfairness' over immigration.

Yet at no time has she accepted responsibility for her part in creating these
problems, through her own Government's bitterly controversial 'social
objectives'. Only now that her seat is under threat has she seen fit to speak
out.

In Wakefield, West Yorkshire, the Government whip Mary Creagh has produced
similar leaflets and surveys on immigration.

'One issue comes up time and time again,' she writes, 'immigration, and in
particular its impact on local communities and the Wakefield job market.'

It is a desperate response to the fact that the BNP captured 13 per cent of the
vote in her area at the European elections -- and may build on that support at
the General Election.

In an echo of Mr Brown's doomed slogan 'British jobs for British workers', Ms
Creagh asks her constituents whether: 'Jobs should be advertised first to people
in Wakefield before being opened up to overseas workers' -- a statement that
would almost certainly fall foul of race relations legislation. Such concerns
have also preoccupied Gisela Stuart, the former junior health minister, who is
defending a wafer-thin majority in Birmingham Edgbaston.

She carried out a recent survey which invited responses to the proposition:
'Migrants should have to pay into a fund to support communities experiencing
significant change as a result of immigration.'

OR HOW about Tom Watson, the West Bromwich East MP and another close ally of the
Prime Minister, who has also been busy posing as being tough on immigration?
(Nick Griffin and other leading BNP figures took part in a St George's Day
parade through West Bromwich which was attended by 20,000 people).

In a recent direct mail and survey about immigration, Watson declared: 'Most
people told me that they were concerned about the level of immigration. More
surveys were returned than on any other subject I have asked you about in the
past. There is a great deal of worry about the pressure on schools, doctors'
surgeries and housing allocations.

Also unsurprisingly, a lot of people also mentioned the issue of protecting
local jobs. I want you to help me keep the pressure up on the Government in
relation to reforming and updating our immigration and citizenship rules and
laws.'

In Burton, Labour MP Ruth Smeeth has gone even further, actively campaigning to
portray the Tories as the party that is soft on immigration.

Defending a majority of just 1,421 -- smaller than the number of BNP votes in
her constituency at the 2005 election -- Ms Smeeth has highlighted how London's
Conservative Mayor Boris Johnson is 'campaigning for an amnesty for illegal
immigrants'.

Such breathtaking hypocrisy from the party that has presided over the biggest
influx of immigrants in British history has shocked even seasoned immigration
campaigners.

Sir Andrew Green, chairman of MigrationWatch UK, says: 'It would seem that some
Labour MPs are singing to an entirely different hymn sheet from the rest of the
Government. We have been pressing the Government on these issues for years. It
appears to be only the onset of a General Election that has caused some of them
to respond -- even if it is in a surreptitious manner.'

Shown the evidence of Labour's new electioneering tactic, Lord Carlile, QC, the
Government's independent reviewer of terrorism legislation, accused the MPs
involved of willfully stirring up resentment and prejudice against immigrants.

HE SAYS: 'I don't think that any candidate should demean him or herself by
grovelling on the ground occupied by Nick Griffin and the BNP. We need a
sensible debate, and a true analysis of the effect of immigration issues on the
economy, benefits and the work place. But pandering to and encouraging prejudice
is a very bad idea.'

Lord Ouseley, the former chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, is
similarly appalled by these 11th-hour demands for action from vulnerable MPs.
'Where have they been for the past ten years while this is going on? It is only
because it has become such a high-profile issue and they fear they are losing
support that they are now raising it. No wonder people are so cynical.

'They were too busy at Westminster to worry about the threat from the BNP. Yet
their constituents have been worried about this issue for years. They are trying
to shut the door now that the horse has well and truly bolted.

'The voters these MPs are trying to reach out to will not fall for this. They
feel alienated because they have seen a government that is more interested in
wealth and celebrity and has allowed the financial sector to bring the whole
edifice crashing down.'

One thing is certain: however offensive, it seems that Mr Balls and his fellow
vulnerable MPs will stop at nothing to cling on to their jobs and perks.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           February 27, 2010 Saturday

MR 'RUMPY PUMPY' GETS A LITTLE GRUMPY

LENGTH: 934 words


QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

HOW WET people are being about Nigel Farage ' s mockery of EU President Herman
van Rompuy. The British Establishment seems to have had a collective attack of
the vapours. Its disapproval of Farage certainly wasn't shared by one Brussels
pizza seller.

Ukip's Mr Farage rose in the European Parliament on Wednesday and told President
Van Rompuy that he had the charisma of 'a damp rag' and 'the appearance of a
low-grade bank clerk'.

He also noted that Monsieur Van Rompuy, whose organisation dilutes national
sovereignty, was formerly prime minister of the 'non-country' of Belgium.

'Things went crazy afterwards and I missed dinner,' said Mr Farage yesterday.

'I finally ended up buying a takeaway pizza at midnight. The man behind the
counter said: "You're the lead item on Belgian news.

Please stop doing this. We don't want van Rompuy back!"

The Times, fanning its cheeks like a distressed duchess, ran a leader yesterday
deploring Mr Farage's 'pathetically rude' behaviour. The article should be
entered for the handwringing Olympics. Mr Farage has been summoned to the
parliament's equivalent of a speaker at midday on Tuesday. He intends to wear
his old school cap for the occasion.

His last such ticking-off was in December after he called Lady Ashton, the EU's
high representative, 'a political pigmy'. He says: 'I was told to wait outside
the headmaster's study at 5pm. A flunkey said "would you like a drink?", meaning
coffee. I said: "Yes, please, I'll have a large gin and tonic." They didn't like
that.'

Mr Farage himself has been called rude names by European federalists --
'mentally ill' was one of the gentler insults. On Wednesday, a German socialist
called Shulz screamed at him in a Teutonic temper tantrum. He called him 'a
disgrace and a professional slanderer'. Madame van Rompuy, wife of the bank
clerk, has also launched a verbal volley on Belgian radio. Madame Miaow!

'They will probably suspend me or fine me on Tuesday,' says Mr Farage. 'But if
they demand an apology, they are not going to get one.' Attaboy.

c HERMAN van Rompuy may be 'Rumpy Pumpy' to some of us, but it is not the only
nickname. Back in his university days at Leuven, he was, I hear, known to some
as 'Rasputin Rompuy'.

WILL LIFE BECOME HELL FOR LEATHER?

HOW swiftly the Charity Commission leapt into action against the antibullying
helpline which criticised Gordon Brown and Lord Mandelson. But of course. The
self-same Charities Commission is chaired by Dame Suzi Leather, a prominent New
Labourite.

How ticklish to think that her Commission is also investigating the TaxPayers'
Alliance for being 'politically motivated'.

Dame Suzichops should watch her pretty step. This week, Trevor Phillips, of the
Equality Commission, was reported to the Commons Privileges Committee for
allegedly trying to influence them while they scrutinised his work.

As I reported here, Dame Suzi sought to lobby MPs on the Public Administration
Committee before they interrogated her in public. Her behaviour was every bit as
questionable as that of Mr Phillips.

ROYAL SNUB BY THE SQUEAKER

DISCREET umbrage has been taken over Speaker John Bercow's attitude to the Duke
of Edinburgh. Prince Philip visited Speaker's House in the Palace of Westminster
on Tuesday night for a formal dinner. It was held to celebrate the Armed Forces
Parliamentary Scheme.

It is pretty rare for a member of the Royal Family to make such a visit and the
turnout was impressive. Guests included the Chief of the Defence Staff, the
First Sea Lord, the Chief of the Air Staff and the Defence Secretary -- along
with various arms manufacturers.

'You'd have thought that if the Duke of Edinburgh is attending a dinner in the
Speaker's House, the Speaker would make it his duty to attend in full
splendour,' says one military-minded MP.

'But Bercow turned up only briefly, before dinner, in his lounge suit, and
stayed for about 20 minutes before pushing off. "Odd" is one way to describe his
behaviour.'

LEGAL INNS AND OUTS

BARRISTERS once huddled around the traditional legal Inns near London's Temple.
But this week, showy Leftwinger Michael Mansfield QC signed a new office lease,
moving his Tooks chambers to distant Farringdon Street. Nearly all the criminal
barristers' sets are now outside the Inns. It means that the Horace Rumpole
ambience around Chancery Lane has probably been lost for ever. As for Tooks, let
us hope its new offices are big enough to accommodate Comrade Mansfield's
substantial ego.

WHENEVER an Anglican 'popes', great is the media din. Take, for example, the
recent move to Roman Catholicism by Paul Richardson, once an assistant bishop in
the Church of England.

But what about traffic in the other direction? On average, six Roman Catholic
priests a year join the C of E. Church House doesn't make anything of this,
considering it ungentlemanly to gloat.

Last year, the Anglican diocese of London ordained more new clergy than the
Roman Catholic church (magnificent institution though it be) managed in the
whole of France. So let's keep things in perspective.

AUTHOR Roger Lewis, Wales's greatest living misanthrope (it's a competitive
field), is serious about standing for Oxford University's Poetry Professorship.

All Oxford graduates have a vote and can now do so online. 'In the past, you had
to turn up in person and put on a gown,' says Lewis. 'It was always an
incestuous, donnish caper. The pay is a laughable 67,000 a year. Insipid Andrew
Motion is the favourite. The civil servant of poetry. The last incumbent,
Christopher Ricks, tells me he wants Geoffrey Hill. I'd prefer Benny Hill.' Oh I
do hope Lewis wins.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 27, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU has all the dignity of a damp rag;
ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 119 words


Nigel Farage, the Ukip MEP, expressed our disappointment with the posturing
president of the EU, Herman van Rompuy, in describing him as having the charisma
of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk. The president of the
European Parliament, an equally domestic and celebrated figure called Jerzy
Buzek, has ordered Mr Farage in for a telling off for his "disrespect". So much
for freedom of speech in Europe; so much for the continental sense of humour
(Baron Rumpy von Pumpy is clearly very touchy); and so much for the dignity of
the EU. When talking about "respect" it sounds like a playground bully, or
someone from a cheap East End gangster film. It'll be on about diabolical
liberties next.

LOAD-DATE: February 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 27, 2010 Saturday

Letter: Naan the wiser

BYLINE: Graham Akrill

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 87 words


Nigel Farage's opportunistic and repellent personal attack on Herman Van Rompuy
and Belgium (Report, 25 February) is probably the catalyst that will start the
end of Ukip and Farage's political ambitions. If he believes his outburst is
representative and acceptable as an elected member of the UK in Europe, then he
has misunderstood the sentiment and requirements of the British people. He
should offer a full and frank apology to Van Rompuy, Belgium, his electorate and
the British people.

Graham Akrill

Reepham, Lincolnshire

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

EPHRAIM HARDCASTLE

LENGTH: 486 words


COLUMN

THE Guardian's campaign to have David Cameron's slippery communications director
Andy Coulson fired looks like an attempt by editor Alan Rusbridger to get back
into Labour's good books after repeatedly (but unsuccessfully) plotting against
Gordon Brown. Supporters of the oncerespected liberal paper - worried by its
plummeting sales and kamikaze business model - now entertain a once-unthinkable
fear, that it could fold. But Mr Rusbridger remains cheerful. Yesterday he
invited rock singer Courtney Love, widow of heroin-addicted rocker Kurt Cobain,
who shot himself in 1994, to join him as he convened the paper's morning
conference. Coming soon, Lady Gaga!

LOOKING a little 'tired', the Duchess of York clambered on stage, uninvited, at
the Carlyle, Manhattan, after John Standing's one-man show on Noel Coward. She
loudly informed the audience: 'I hope you all understand how lucky you are to be
here and see John perform, and if you don't come back every night and bring lots
of friends ... I'll kill you all!' Is Her Fergieness becoming a public nuisance?

UPDATE on twicedivorced, best-selling novelist Joanna Trollope, 66, (mentioned
yesterday) who says she believes 'in all kinds of love'. Right now, it's love
with a musical theme. She is canoodling with musician Jason Kouchak,
20-something, pictured, with whom she has written the lyrics for songs called
Chase the Dream and Look My Way. Isn't life grand?

CHARADES-loving car racing boss Max Mosley, 69 - who won a privacy case over
exotic parties in which he and a number of ladies dressed in prison garb, spoke
in German and 'disciplined' each other ñ is headed back to London from tax exile
in Monaco. 'He feels he needs to engage with more interesting and intelligent
people,' says a colleague. Look out!

DAME Eileen Atkins has filmed an episode of Poirot with David Suchet. She has a
soft spot for the portly thespian, having helped him to land one of his first
big parts - as Orlando to her Rosalind in As You Like It at Stratford in 1973.
Dame Eileen said he could do it - as long as he did not have to wear 'shoe lifts
or a hairpiece'.

SPREAD-betting multi-millionaire Stuart Wheeler, 74, who now gives money to UKIP
instead of the Tories, held a champagne reception at his Mayfair penthouse to
launch his book, A Crisis of Trust. A friend reports: 'Very plush. The bathroom
has a bawdy calendar featuring barely clad Kelly Brook on the wall.'

CABINET Secretary Sir Gus O'Donnell's admission that he told Gordon Brown about
'how to get the best out of his staff' by congratulating them on good work
insults our intelligence. Couldn't Mr Brown have worked this out himself? Now 57
and with more than 20 years spent at the centre of power, O'Donnell must be
planning a dignified exit, protected by the secrets he heard while in close
proximity of Margaret Thatcher, John Major, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

E-mail: ephraim.hardcastle@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Outcry as Ukip chief attacks EU's 'damp rag' president

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 606 words


THE LEADING Ukip MEP Nigel Farage faces an official reprimand and possible
disciplinary action after he described the European Union president as a "damp
rag" during the new chief's first parliamentary appearance.

The comments about Herman Van Rompuy caused anger in the European Parliament and
across Belgium. During a debate on Europe's economic prospects on Wednesday, Mr
Farage surprised MEPs and Mr Van Rompuy with an "insulting" personal attack. "I
don't want to be rude," Mr Farage said. "But you know, really, you have the
charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low grade bank clerk."

Amid loud protests, he accused a visibly shaken Mr Van Rompuy of being a Belgian
European federalist and a "quiet assassin" of democracy.

He said that Mr Van Rompuy seemed to hate the idea of nation states because he
came from the "non-country" of Belgium.

Yves Leterme, the Belgian prime minister, yesterday escalated the row by
defending Mr Van Rompuy, who was Belgium's leader before he took the top EU job.

"I am obliged to react as a responsible Belgian politician facing the
consequences of a slander that is extremely discourteous to Belgium," he wrote
to Jerzy Buzek, the European Parliament's president.

"You cannot underestimate the impact it has had on my citizens."

Mr Farage has been summoned to Mr Buzek's office next Tuesday. "The president
will inform Mr Farage that he will not accept these kinds of remarks or personal
attacks on a guest in the chamber. He will not tolerate disrespect," said his
spokesman.

"The president is exploring what measures are most appropriate to deal with
this."

Mr Buzek is expected to demand an apology and has the power to fine Mr Farage or
to limit his speaking rights. "He has been summoned to the headmaster's office
and expects a spanking," a Ukip spokesman said.

It has been suggested that the controversy, which was widely reported by the
BBC, was deliberately staged to promote Mr Farage's appearance on Question Time
last night.

Denis MacShane, a Labour MP and a former Europe minister, said: "The BBC should
not abuse its news bulletins by promoting a loudmouth of little importance
simply because he is appearing on one of their prime-time programmes."

Many Belgians are angered by the description of Mr Van Rompuy as a "serpilliÈre
humide", or wet floor cloth in French.

"The English are cretins, whose arrogance is only equalled by their mediocrity
of spirit," wrote one reader of the Libre Belgique newspaper yesterday.

In the words of Nigel Farage ...

We were told that, when we had a president, we would see a giant global
political figure: the man that would be the political leader for five hundred
million people; the man that would represent all of us on the world stage; the
man whose job was so important that of course you are paid more than President
Obama.

Well, I am afraid what we got was you. And I am sorry, I do not want to be rude,
but you know, really, you have the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of
a low grade bank clerk.

And what mechanism do the peoples of Europe have to remove you? Is this European
democracy? I have no doubt that it is your intention to be the quiet assassin of
European democracy and of the European nation states. You appear to have a
loathing for the very concept of the existence of nation states; perhaps that is
because you come from Belgium, which of course is pretty much a non-country.

Sir, you have no legitimacy in this job at all, and I can say with confidence
that I can speak on behalf of the majority of the British people in saying: we
do not know you, we do not want you, and the sooner you are put out to grass,
the better.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

Political briefing Brussels elite don't fear Farage, Cameron is the real concern

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 525 words


When the Ukip MEP Nigel Farage accused the European Council's newly installed
president, Herman Van Rompuy, of having "all the charisma of a damp rag" this
week he raised a populist cheer in British pubs and a refined shudder in the
wine bars of Strasbourg and Brussels. Ah, those Little Englanders!

But Farage is not the Brit who really upsets EU officials and elected
politicians. By now they are used to his often entertaining lager lout style,
which has scored some hits in the po-faced parliament. And besides, Farage has
12 less amusing Ukip colleagues since last June's EU elections, and is running
to unseat the Commons Speaker, John Bercow, in Westminster.

No, the one who scares them is David Cameron. Is his break with the mainstream
conservative European People's party (EEP) merely tactical? Is it a sop to the
Tory right while he makes the party electable, albeit at the price of sharply
diminished influence on EU policy and legislation? Or does he really mean it?

Van Rompuy, a high-calibre operator, tells visitors that pragmatism will
reassert itself once Cameron is prime minister. Tory officials in London protest
they have excellent relations with key players such as Christine Lagarde,
France's admired, bilingual finance minister. Why, the Europhile Ken Clarke was
on the Eurostar home last night after two days of talks in Brussels, they point
out.

The Brussels elite are taking no chances. The drive to upgrade dozens of
European commission offices around the world into Lady Ashton's EU embassies,
staffed by pro-active and political diplomats, is being accelerated to meet an
April deadline that will place the new system beyond Cameron's reach if he wins
power in May.

It is a prudent response. Cameron saw Ukip take 2.5m votes and second place to
his own 4.2m last June. The Europhobe BNP took 950,000. Worse, there is a strong
Ukip fellow-travelling contingency within the Tory ranks, exemplified by the
ever-popular Lord Tebbit. They do not like Cameron, who will again find it
easier to make populist gestures over Europe than over tax cuts.

Yet the federalist Europe they rage against looks flakier by the day. France and
Germany look to Britain as one of the three "bigs" to help manage the agenda and
herd the "smalls". Gordon Brown is parochial enough; Cameron threatens to be
worse. Paris remains happy to see Europe as France writ large, but Berlin's 50
years as an uncomplaining "good European" state with a cheque book are over.

Rompuy's remedy is a slimline monthly summit which the "smalls" attend as
regional groups: Iberia, Benelux, Scans, ex-Soviet bloc. If the idea flies
(unlikely) there is urgent business, notably the financial crisis which has
drawn angry crowds on to southern streets and threatens the stability of the
euro by exposing its inherent contradictions - a political project disguised as
a currency system.

So as Greek finances totter and Brussels stalls, the moment's real killer word
is not Nigel Farage's "damp rag" but "Pigs" - as in Portugal, Ireland, Greece
and Spain, the eurozone's vulnerable fringe economies, unable to devalue like
Britain. A renewed banking crisis might bring them down.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 26, 2010 Friday

Nigel Farage's rampage of rudeness

BYLINE: Martin Kettleguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 422 words

ABSTRACT

The Ukip MEP is desperately trying to get noticed, but it's reassuring that his
behaviour has been met with derision

FULL TEXT

Nigel Farage is a character in search of an audience. Desperately, even
manically so. There's almost nothing the ex-Ukip leader (and still the party's
most prominent figurehead) wouldn't do at the moment to get himself noticed and
talked about. This week alone he made a well (and in my opinion, rather softly)
reported , then managed to create so much of a stir on the BBC's Question Time
by  that he managed to unite everyone else on the panel (and quite a lot of the
audience) against him.

Why is he doing this? Partly because he can. Partly because being rude about
foreigners is what comes naturally. Mainly, however, it's because Farage is
running for parliament. Farage's decision to take on the Commons Speaker, John
Bercow, in Buckingham in the general election may at first sight have seemed
rather a smart move - the main parties give the Speaker a free run so the field
was wide open. Latterly, however, it must have seemed to Farage that he was on a
hiding to nothing, especially since the entry into the Buckingham field of the
ex-Tory MEP John Stephens, who is as pro-Europe as Farage is anti.

So Farage is engaged in a campaign to get noticed. Perhaps he hopes to emulate
the anti-European Tory MEP Daniel Hannan whose denunciation of Gordon Brown in
the European parliament became a wonder of the web for a while. But what he
really wants is to get on the telly as much as possible. Nothing would please
him more than to be suspended from the European parliament by its president
Jerzy Buzek, who has summoned Farage for a stern talk about his behaviour.

There's a dilemma here. To write about Nigel Farage is to reward bad behaviour.
It's what he wants. So he shouldn't get it. But that's journalism for you. And,
more seriously, it is important to draw the line. Some of the reporting of
Farage's insults and some of the interviews of him have been very indulgent
towards his rudeness to foreigners. And, yes, of course the sight of a lot of
MEPs standing on their offended dignity has its absurd side. At the end of the
day, though, the MEPs are right to object and Farage is wrong to be offensive.
It was good that the Question Time panelists objected to him as strongly as they
did. Faced with Farage, don't rise to his bait. Never forget, however, that
against all appearances, he is serious.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Belgian outrage over tirade by MEP Farage;
Former Ukip leader may be disciplined for 'insulting and disrespectful' remarks

BYLINE: Vanessa Mock IN BRUSSELS and Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 585 words


THERE IS an old right-wing prejudice in Britain that Belgium does not exist. In
Margaret Thatcher's day, Downing Street officials would say so privately - but
they at least had the common sense not to repeat such comments when in Belgium.

No such sense of decorum has inhibited Nigel Farage, a UK Independence Party MEP
and former leader of the party, who has detonated a diplomatic row by telling
the Belgians that they live in a "non-country" during a tirade directed at the
Belgian-born EU President Herman van Rompuy.

Mr Farage is well-known for his outbursts against the EU. But he exceeded even
his usual standard of bluntness on Wednesday when he told a visibly shocked Mr
van Rompuy that he had the charisma of a "damp rag" and the looks of a
"low-grade bank clerk".

Over boos Mr Farage added: "I have no doubt that it is your intention to be the
quiet assassin of European democracy and of the European nation states. You
appear to have a loathing for the very concept of the existence of nation
states; perhaps that is because you come from Belgium, which of course is pretty
much a non-country."

His comments provoked a letter of complaint from Belgium's Prime Minister, Yves
Leterme, to the president of the European Parliament, Jerzy Buzek. "As a Belgian
politician, I must react against this damaging intervention... and the impolite
comments about Belgium," Mr Leterme protested. He called on Mr Buzek to end
"these kinds of incidents" in a bid to protect "the interests of my citizens,
which cannot be underestimated".

Ivo Belet, a Belgian Christian Democrat MEP, added: "His comments on Belgium are
beyond the pale, especially given how much he seems to enjoy his Brussels life
and its restaurants. He's been here for many years so it can't be so bad."

Mr Farage, who is standing in Buckingham against the Speaker, John Bercow, at
the general election, has been summoned to see Mr Buzek on Tuesday, when he
could face disciplinary action. Mr Buzek's spokeswoman said: "The president
would like to see vivid political debate but he will not tolerate that this
chamber is disrespected, that people in it are personally insulted or comments
about anyone's personal appearance."

The view that Belgium is a "non-country" is taken seriously by Eurosceptics both
in UKIP and on the right wing of the Conservative Party. They argue that there
is no Belgian nation but only separate groups of French speakers and Dutch
speakers living in an artificial kingdom who do not have the same patriotic
objections that the British would have to seeing their country absorbed in an EU
superstate.

Herge et al

Famous Belgians

* Leo Baekeland (1863 -1944): chemist who invented Bakelite.

* Jean-Claude Van Damme (1960-present): Action movie star.

* Georges Remi, aka Herge (1907-83): cartoonist. His politics were suspect but
his creation, Tintin, lives on.

* Leopold-Louis-Philippe-Marie-Victor (1835-1909): Belgian king whose plundering
of the Congo inspired Joseph Conrad's novel Heart of Darkness, which in turn
inspired the film Apocalypse Now.

* Rene Magritte (1898-1967): Surrealist painter.

* Eddy Merckx (1945-date): cyclist.

* Jean 'Django' Reinhardt (1910-53) Guitarist who, with violinist Stephane
Grappelli, was an early star of jazz.

* Adolphe Sax (1814-1894) designer of world's first saxophone.

* Georges Simenon (1903-89) One of the world's most prolific authors, His
500-plus books include the Maigret detective novels.

* Jacques Brel (1929-78) Singer-songwriter who has sold more than 25 million
albums worldwide.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

MEP insults fly;
IN THE NEWS

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 32 words


The former UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage rejected a plea by a "sweet
and rather pretty" Belgian MEP to retract his view that EU President Herman Van
Rompuy is a "damp rag". Page 17

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage swings victory for Ukip in pub campaign;
City Diary

BYLINE: Martin Waller

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 133 words


They will miss Ukip's Nigel Farage in Brussels, should he succeed in turfing out
John "Mr Squeaker" Bercow from his Buckingham constituency. The former
commodities broker has, you may have read elsewhere, lambasted the new Council
President Herman van Rompuy as a non-entity and his homeland Belgium as "a
non-country". Belgium was indeed stitched together after Waterloo with the sole
intention of annoying its neighbours, but still ... In any event, I hear that
Farage has done the citizens of Brussels one favour. The British political
classes drink at a faux Irish pub, Kitty O'Shea's. Farage managed to get the
British National Party banned from the place. He simply pointed out the
difference in size between the BNP's bar bills and Ukip's and asked the landlord
which he would prefer to forgo.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

A Damp Rag;
Nigel Farage is an embarrassing figure who does not speak for Britain

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 272 words


David Aaronovitch once invented the perfect definition for the noun farage.
Taken from barrage, out of the French barrer, meaning to obstruct, and from the
Latin farrago meaning a mess, a farage is a bombardment of nonsense.

The once-upon-a-time leader of UKIP has been at it again. Addressing Herman Van
Rompuy, the former Prime Minister of Belgium and leader of the European Council,
Mr Farage began by saying "I don't want to be rude but..." and then continued
"you have the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank
clerk." It would clearly not be wise to cross Mr Farage when he does want to be
rude.

Mr Farage, with his characteristic charm, went on to describe Belgium as a
"non-country" and then, displaying the full set of prejudices, patronised a
Belgian MEP who asked him to apologise by describing her as "very sweet and
rather pretty".

The hilarious Mr Farage is not done yet. He has been summoned to see the
European Parliament President Jerzy Buzek next Tuesday and is considering
wearing shorts and a schoolboy cap when he goes to the headmaster's study. What
a card. It is always embarrassing (but never funny) when unfunny people try to
be amusing.

In his rant at Mr Van Rompuy, Mr Farage boasted that "I can speak on behalf of
the majority of British people in saying that we don't know you, we don't want
you..." This newspaper did not want a leader of the European Council either.

But no, Mr Farage, you do not speak for the majority of the British people. They
would not dream of being so pathetically rude and neither do they relish being
represented by the political equivalent of Alan Partridge.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage rejects request for apology from 'sweet' MEP

BYLINE: David Charter; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 178 words


Brussels Nigel Farage compounded an attack on the EU's new President by refusing
a request by a "sweet and rather pretty" Belgian MEP that he apologise for his
criticism of her country and its most senior statesman (David Charter and Roland
Watson write). In a tirade in the European Parliament, the former leader of the
UK Independence Party called Herman Van Rompuy a "damp rag" and Belgium a
non-country.

Rather than show contrition, Mr Farage is understood to be seeking to be
suspended from the Parliament to generate publicity for his battle with John
Bercow, the Speaker, to be elected MP for Buckingham. He has been summoned to
see the Parliament's President about his outburst and is said to be considering
dressing as a schoolboy as if for a headmaster's reprimand. Asked if he was
trying to get himself banned, Mr Farage told The Times: "You make your own mind
up, mate."

After the BBC played the clip of Mr Farage's attack repeatedly it was accused of
using it to drum up audiences for Question Time, on which he was to appear last
night. Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Farage dismisses apology demand from 'sweet' MEP

BYLINE: David Charter; Rory Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 335 words


Nigel Farage compounded a vitriolic attack on the EU's new President yesterday
by refusing a request by a "sweet and rather pretty" Belgian MEP that he
apologise for his criticism of her country and its most senior statesman.

The former leader of the UK Independence Party came under widespread criticism
for calling Herman Van Rompuy a "damp rag" and dismissing the EU President's
native Belgium as a non-country in a tirade in the European Parliament.

Rather than show contrition, Mr Farage is understood to be on a mission to get
himself suspended from the parliament to generate publicity for his general
election battle with the Speaker, John Bercow, to be elected MP for Buckingham.
He has been summoned to see the European Parliament President, Jerzy Buzek,
about his outburst on Tuesday and is reportedly considering wearing shorts and a
schoolboy cap as if for a dressingdown from the headmaster. Asked whether he was
trying to get himself banned, Mr Farage told The Times: "You make your own mind
up, mate."

The BBC was drawn into the row after it played the clip of Mr Farage's attack
repeatedly and was accused of using it to drum up viewing figures for Question
Time, on which the UKIP MEP was due to appear last night.

Mr Van Rompuy said that he would not respond to the attack but the Belgian press
was outraged and the Prime Minister, Yves Leterme, wrote a letter of complaint
to Mr Buzek. Like others of Mr Farage's proudest moments, it was placed on
YouTube and has become an internet hit.

Véronique De Keyser, a Belgian Socialist MEP, demanded a formal apology for Mr
Farage's claim that Belgium was a non-country.

Mr Farage said: "She is very sweet and rather pretty but I cannot apologise for
the fact that Belgium is a completely artificial construction and a mistake."

Denis MacShane, Labour MP for Rotherham and a former Europe Minister, said:
"Nigel Farage gives the average rent-a-quote MP or MEP a bad name. He has always
confused personal insults with serious politics."

Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Farage and Véronique De Keyser

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday

WE'LL IMPOSE £2BN MATERNITY PAY BURDEN ON YOU, SAY MEPS

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER

LENGTH: 349 words


EUROPE has insisted it will push through controversial plans to treble maternity
pay amid mounting fury from British business leaders.

The European Parliament's women's rights and gender equality committee has voted
through plans to force firms to pay pregnant women 100 per cent of their salary
for at least 20 weeks.

It leaves British businesses facing the prospect of a crippling £2billion burden
to implement the measures.

MEPs yesterday boasted that they were 'confident' that the EU would rubber stamp
the measures at next month's vote in the European Parliament.

But the power of an apparently unaccountable committee to make such a radical
policy has infuriated many in British business. Labour's sole representative-on
the committee, MEP Mary Honeyball, has even refused to say which way she voted ñ
despite previously speaking up in favour of the measure.

Portuguese Socialist MEP Edite Estrela had attempted to introduce a minimum
compulsory 20-week maternity leave last year. But a coalition of centre-right
and liberal MEPs blocked a parliamentary vote. Miss Estrela last night told the
EU's EurActiv website that she was confident her plans would get through this
time round following last year's European elections.

Britain no longer has a right to block the proposals because it surrendered its
veto on employment law. But senior Government sources last night revealed that
ministers would be working hard behind the scenes to persuade EU allies to vote
against the plans next month.

The plan would effectively treble statutory maternity pay in the UK, which
currently provides women with six weeks at 90 per cent of their salary, followed
by a longer period on a basic £123 a week.

Phil Orford, chief executive of the Forum of Private Business, said: 'This
couldn't come at a worse time for small business owners as they struggle with a
limp economic recovery and a highly uncertain future.'

John Cridland, CBI deputy director-general, said: 'It would be highly damaging
to increase the costs of statutory maternity pay.'

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said: 'This is the economics of the madhouse.'

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'You're nobody, a damp rag' humiliated Euro chief told

SECTION: NEWS 151; 05

LENGTH: 142  words


EUROPEAN president Herman Van Rompuy was savaged as an unknown with "the
charisma of a damp rag" by MEP Nigel Farage yesterday.

The UK Independence Party member compared the former Belgian prime minister to a
"low-grade bank clerk" from a "non-country" as Mr Van Rompuy made his first
appearance in the European Parliament in Brussels.

Mr Farage asked Mr Van Rompuy: "Who are you?" Then he added: "I'd never heard of
you. Nobody in Europe had ever heard of you."

The MEP, whose party campaigns for British withdrawal from the European Union,
said:

"I have no doubt your intention is to be the quiet assassin of European
democracy and of European nation states.

"Perhaps that's because you come from Belgium, which is pretty much a
non-country."

Mr Van Rompuy replied:

"That was a contribution I can only hold in contempt but I'm not going to
comment further."

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Farage made verbal attack

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday

Political briefing: Kettle blacker than the pot

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 479 words


The big two parties and their online champions struggled hard to land a fatal
blow on each other's recent fundraising activities yesterday after the Electoral
Commission revealed they had rustled up £15.5m in the last quarter of 2009,
despite the recession.

It left 13 smaller parties to raise barely £1.5m between them, two-thirds of
that going to the Lib Dems. A good quarter by their modest standards, it is
another sign that the election may be kind to the Clegg-Cable brand. Ukip came
fourth with £197,000.

Business as usual then, despite huge efforts to cap and control the way money is
raised and spent at British elections? Not entirely. The Hayden Phillips
blueprint for reform was stalled by calculation on both sides, notably Tory
determination to smash Labour's union war chest.

There is an £18m cap on the amount parties can spend between 1 January and
polling day. The cap has already been undermined by the huge sums that Tory
strategists such as Lord Ashcroft have poured into key marginals and will be
further by "independent" spending lightly linked to both camps.

But yesterday's accounts show Tory HQ is still targeting the union link, while
Labour shouts "outrage" against the millions pouring in from the City, some it
of from sources certain to embarrass a Cameron government.

Embarrassingly for Labour, much of its £4.9m Q4 income came from three people:
£1m apiece from Lord Sainsbury of Turville and Sir Nigel Doughty, £250,000 from
the Brownite venture capitalist Sir Ronnie Cohen; and two unions, Unite
(£880,000) and Unison (£400,000). It allows the ConservativeHome website to
complain that 60% of Labour's 2009 funding (£9.7m) came from unions, compared
with 50% in 2008, including £3.6m from Unite which - so Tory chairman, Eric
Pickles, proclaimed - is planning the BA strikes.

All unsatisfactory, but the Tory kettle looks blacker than the Labour pot.
ConservativeHome boasts of having broadened its base of donors, with 1,037 now
required by law to reveal gifts above £5,000 in Q4. In reality its 25 largest
donors, ranging from David Rowlands's £738,000, £500k from their own Lord
Sainsbury (of Preston Candover), to Sir Robert McAlpine's £77k, account for half
its Q4 £10.4m (plus £1.3m from the taxpayer).

Learning tact, Lord and Lady Ashcroft's names are nowhere to be seen in Q4,
though his service company, Bearwood, gave sponsorship worth £80,000. Ashcroft's
uncertain tax status remains an election timebomb.

Faced with what its campaign fundraiser, David Blunkett, rightly calls a David v
Goliath scenario, Labour is trying to talk Barack Obama's language of
internet-driven fundraising and a campaign that uses technologies such as
Twitter to empower the grassroots.

With only £8m (plus loans) in its war chest, and many donors frightened away by
the cash-for-honours affair or the prospect of defeat, Blunkett may be whistling
in the dark.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday

Farage was rude but right about Van Rompuy

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1263 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Picking this president was a serious strategic error - as Barack
Obama's decision not to attend the next EU-US summit in Spain underlines

FULL TEXT

I was ploughing through  with an icepack on my temple a few minutes ago when
raucous noises from the kitchen radio distracted me.

It was the sound of , of having "all the charisma of a damp rag and the
appearance of a low-grade bank clerk".

Oh dear, the Mais lecture will have to wait while we dispatch investigators to
the European parliament in Strasbourg, where the incident took place.

Why, oh why, are the Brits rude so often in public nowadays when once they were
a byword on the continent for good manners and understatement, inhibited
reticence even? Is there an election looming?

My first thought was that Nigel had noticed that Tory MEP Daniel Hannan got a
great deal of publicity on YouTube for being loutishly offensive to Gordon Brown
when our lovable PM visited Strasbourg.

Farage as a cut-price Dan is a tempting explanation, but there is more to it
than that.

In the case of drunken British youths and their girlfriends who lie around on
pavements in their own puke - known to the French as "les fuck-offs" because
that is the limit of their linguistic skills - it is because they have drunk a
skinful of cheap Alsatian beer.

Though he is by no means a teetotaller I think we can assume Ukip's point man
was not under the influence when he attacked Herman Van Rompuy - 49th prime
minister of Belgium, now president of the European council - as he made his
debut appearance before the parliament.

When anyone, politician or not, begins with an "I don't want to be rude ... "
and then asks who exactly he is talking to ("I've never heard of you") we all
know he does mean to be very rude. In Farage's case this is partly the
ignorant-and-proud-of-it insularity for which Brits are almost as famous as
Americans.

It was not always so, but has got worse at a time when it should have got better
in the wake of national decline. It did not because we accidentally benefiting
from speaking a version of the new universal language, the Latin of our time:
American English.

We do it with a funny accent, but educated foreigners can still get the drift of
what we are trying to say. You can tell by the boos and hisses which accompany
Nigel Farage's sally as fellow-MEPs, many of them multilingual, start to listen.

When Britain was briefly the global hegemon its imperial soldiers and clerks
were often bumptiously ignorant - the literature points that way - but many of
the then-masters of the universe were highly educated.

They learned or uncoded ancient languages, seriously studied the cultures of
their subject peoples, rescued the great Taj Mahal from decay, and built roads
and irrigation systems. Anthony Eden, PM from 1955-57, spoke both Persian and
Arabic (to Colonel Nasser). It did not stop him invading Suez with disastrous
consequences for Britain's reputation.

None of which applies to Nigel, a Dulwich College boy who became a commodity
broker instead of going to university and left the Tory party in 1990 when
Margaret Thatcher was overthrown.

Elected an MEP in 1999, he resigned as party leader (while remaining head of the
13-strong Ukip group in the European parliament) in order to try to unseat John
Bercow - the Speaker of the Commons - as MP for Buckingham.

As you must have gathered by now there's a lot going on here. What Nige would
call the "three social democratic parties" in Britain - Conservative, Labour and
Liberal Democrats - don't contest the Speaker's seat by tradition, though Bercow
shows a little Brown-like insecurity by suggesting there should be a non-seat
(Westminster Central?) set aside for Speakers.

But Farage knows that a lot of Tory voters are hacked off with politics in
general, the Cameroons in particular and Bercow, his Labour wife, and his
promotion quite intensely. He has seen an opportunity to make trouble for the
Tories and get himself a Commons seat. Go for it, Nige.

In 2005 Bercow took 57.4% of the local vote in  (founded 1542) on a 68% turnout,
against Labour's 19.9%, a majority of 18,129. It would take a 19% notional swing
to unseat him, though Bercow was more popular then and the seat has had (minor)
boundary changes for 2010.

On the stats I'd say Farage has only a slender chance of an upset. But we live
in strange times where voters may want to poke the system in the eye, not least
because Bercow's piety about the expenses scandal was not matched by 100%
personal restraint before or since he occupied Speaker's House.

So Nige appears to be a populist in search of publicity to further his cause.
Indeed, the BBC's Jonny Dymond said on Radio 4 that Strasbourg gossip suggests
he is trying to get himself suspended or expelled to enjoy a spot of martyrdom.

He wouldn't be the first - Dennis Skinner, Ian Paisley, Tam Dalyell and others
got themselves thrown out of the Commons at assorted times, sometimes ahead of
NEC elections.

Me, I doubt the Strasbourg crowd will fall for that one. After all they put up
with all sorts of oddballs and sleazeballs turning up, elected or invited.
Silvio Berlusconi plays the Farage card from time to time.

And Farage has tried to shock on previous occasions. He revealed that Jacques
Barrot, the French commissioner designate in 2004, had been given a suspended
prison sentence for trousering £2m worth of public funds in 2000, but been given
an amnesty by Jacques Chirac.

Under French law the conviction should not have been mentioned in public. But
Farage won. Less successfully he raised criminal investigations against another
fly Frenchman, farmers leader Joseph Daul, who threatened to sue him, but
didn't.

He got 75 MEPs to back a no-confidence motion in commission president José
Manuel Barroso in 2005 - after claims that he'd taken a free yachting holiday
from a Greek zillionaire who had done well out of EU funds (before Barroso's
time).

I'm in favour of troublemakers bucking the consensus. That's why I occasionally
argue that Gordon Brown is not a complete fool or knave and that Tony Blair will
eventually be seen again as a better PM than the mob currently asserts.

On yesterday's substantive point, I think we should endorse the Farage analysis,
but not his manners.

Picking President Rumpy-Pumpy, whom I will politely call a relative unknown, was
a serious strategic error as Barack Obama's decision not to attend the next
EU-US summit in Spain underlines. Too many EU presidents to shake hands with.

It's a further reminder that the analysis of the federalist EU superstate that
so animates Farage and more sophisticated Europhobes like my new best friend
Stuart Wheeler is wide of the mark.

Europe is becoming feebler, not stronger, by the day and Van Rompuy's
appointment - like that of Lady Ashton as foreign minister - was another bag of
nails in the coffin lid.

But rudeness in such a stuffy, consensual, gravitas-lite assembly is just
boorish, juvenile, Hannan-esque solipsism, for which we should hang our
collective head. Nige, how could you?

It is not as if he means it all, not deep down. He hasn't minded taking nearly
£2m worth of EU taxpayers' filthy money since 1999 on top of his £64,000 annual
salary. Yes, Nigel, we know you spent it on staff and good causes. That's what
MPs say too.

What's more his second wife, Kirsten, is German. I wouldn't be surprised if he
can manage a few words of the language by now, if only on the wife's birthday.

Has the Sun been told?

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Conservatives' election war chest tops £10m;
Tory donations give party more spending power than all its rivals combined

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 609 words


THE CONSERVATIVES received more than £10m towards their election war chest in
just three months - far more than the other parties combined.

The flood of cash into the Tory coffers is enabling it to outspend Labour in
pre-election skirmishes ahead of the campaign. It reported gifts worth
£10,481,949 in last quarter of 2009, compared with £4,962,886 collected by
Labour and £1,055,717 received by the Liberal Democrats. The figures released by
the Electoral Commission also show that the Conservatives raised some £26m
during 2009, while Labour received about £16m over the year.

The appeal of David Cameron's party to donors adds to the pressure on Labour to
match Tory spending. It is certain to appeal to the unions for fresh funds to
bankroll its campaign.

The biggest Tory donor was the property magnate David Rowland, who handed over
738,000 to the party. The son of a scrap metal dealer whose wealth is estimated
at £630m, he recently moved from tax exile on Guernsey to the mainland so he
could donate money to the party.

Stanley Fink, described as the "godfather" of hedge funds, gave £501,640 and
Lord John Sainsbury, the chairman and chief executive of J Sainsbury from 1969
to 1992, donated £500,000. Michael Bishop, the former owner of the BMI airline,
gave £335,000, while Michael Farmer, the founder of a metal-trading hedge fund,
contributed £274,000.

The Electoral Commission figures also show that two companies associated with
Lord Ashcroft, the Conservative deputy chairman, gave the party more than
£100,000 in sponsorship and free transport.

Labour received £1,010,000 from Sir Nigel Doughty, the head of private equity
company Doughty Hanson, and £1m from another member of the Sainsbury family, the
former minister Lord David Sainsbury. It received donations of £874,984 from the
super-union Unite and another £402,414 from the public sector union Unison. The
financier Sir Ronald Cohen gave the party £250,000.

The Electoral Commission also disclosed that the Tories had increased their
overdraft by £5m and Labour had raised its credit facility by £2m.

David Blunkett, Labour's chief election fundraiser, has said his party cannot
afford to emulate the Tory election budget. He claimed it would be able to spend
about £8m in the election, compared with an £18m budget for the Conservatives.
In an email to party members, he said: "The announcement has confirmed what
we've known for a long time - we're the underdogs in this election."

Eric Pickles, the Tory chairman, highlighted the contribution from Unite, the
union behind the planned British Airways strike. He said: "It's frightening that
day by day the unions' stranglehold on the Labour party is tightening. As
millions face air travel misery, we now discover that the union behind it is
bankrolling the Labour Party."

The Tories were singled out for criticism by the Commission for failing to
declare the money it had received on time. The Conservatives reported £637,069
in the last quarter of 2009 that it should have declared earlier.

Peter Wardle, its chief executive, said: "We have had a particularly high level
of late-reported donations this quarter from the Conservative Party head office.

"They have told us that this was the result of computer problems. The Electoral
Commission has met party officers, who have set out their plans to address these
problems and return to timely reporting."

Political parties received £17,088,525 in gifts over the quarter, the third
highest total on record, with the Conservatives receiving 62 per cent of the
money. The UK Independence Party received gifts worth £197,151, the Green Party
£89,183, and the Scottish National Party £26,111.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 25, 2010 Thursday 2:19 PM GMT

Video: 'You have the charisma of a damp rag,' UKIP's Nigel Farage tells EU
President

BYLINE: By Will Heaven

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 17 words


It's not exactly Daniel Hannan, I know, but I've a feeling some Telegraph Blogs
readers might enjoy this:

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Conservatives borrow £5 million from private bank;
Party organises credit but warns of UK debt

BYLINE: Sam Coates; Roland Watson; Francis Elliott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 580 words


The Conservatives have arranged to borrow up to £5 million from a boutique
private bank once run by Jonathan Aitken, the Electoral Commission revealed
yesterday.

The Tories have negotiated a credit facility, the largest of any party, with
Arbuthnot Latham & Co. It emerged on the day that George Osborne, the Shadow
Chancellor, warned of the need to reduce Britain's debt.

Arbuthnot's chairman and chief executive, the British-Swiss banker Henry Angest,
arranged for his company to fund an array of right-wing organisations and has
indicated his support for the TaxPayers' Alliance.

The company's board includes the former Washington Ambassador Sir Christopher
Meyer, Sir Michael Peat, private secretary to the Prince of Wales, and the
economist Ruth Lea. The agreement to allow the party to borrow the sum if needed
at base rate plus 3 per cent was negotiated in November.

Papers from Companies House show that Arbuthnot changed its name in 1994 from
Aitken Hume Bank, which was run by Mr Aitken, a former minister. The company
refused to comment. One Tory MP said: "We are wasting so much money at the
moment.

Lord Ashcroft is a net vote loser and this is putting us in the hands of people
who we shouldn't."

The Tories have £4 million in loans and £10.1 million in credit facilities,
while Labour has £9.8 million in loans and £6.2 million in credit facilities.
Labour's biggest lender is the Co-operative Bank, which has provided £2.9
million at 2-4 per cent above the base rate, plus a further £2 million credit
facility.

In the last three months of 2009 the Conservatives raised £10.5 million in
donations, twice as much as Labour, which raised £4.96 million. The Liberal
Democrats raised £1.05 million.

The biggest Tory donors were David Rowland, who gave £738,000, and Stanley Fink
(£500,540).

Labour received £1.9 million from the trade unions, including £5,000 from the
National Union of Mineworkers, whose leader, Ian Lavery, is expected to be
selected to fight Wansbeck in Northumberland. The biggest donation for the Lib
Dems, of £205,000, came from the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust.

Mr Osborne put debt at the heart of the Tory election campaign yesterday and
insisted that prompt action on the £178 billion budget deficit was required to
establish credibility with the markets.

He said that he would set out the cuts needed to start reducing debtwithin weeks
of taking office. By autumn a Tory government would identify the savings
required of every department.

Mr Osborne, giving the Mais Lecture, said that without immediate action Britain
risked losing its economic sovereignty. Credit agencies would take fright,
interest rates would rise and recovery would be undermined, he said, as he laid
out his plans should the Tories take power. A new office for budget
responsibility would publish an independent audit of public finances within
weeks, he said. Mr Osborne would then present a Budget within 50 days to set the
overall spending targets for four or five years.

Leading article, page 2

Conservatives, pages 20, 21

A complaint over the fundraising team for John Bercow, the Speaker, who is
fighting to retain his Buckingham seat, has been sent to the Parliamentary
Commissioner for Standards. A member of the UK Independence Party suggested that
The Friends of Speaker Bercow may be breaching procedure by appearing to operate
with the apolitical Office of the Speaker. The group said that a list of
potential donors had been provided by Mr Bercow, not by Commons officials.

LOAD-DATE: February 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Osborne warned of Britain's debt, despite his party arranging
its bank loan at base rate plus 3 per cent
RICHARD POHLE FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday

RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1132 words


COLUMN

IT'S LADY APOLOGIA FRASER . . .

AS one half of the most celebrated literary duo in London and whose home was a
salon for great writers and ideas, Lady Antonia Fraser has never had much room
for doubt.

Her recently published memoir, Must You Go?, a portrait of her marriage to the
late playwright Harold Pinter, divided her family as much it did the critics,
who labelled it self-indulgent, snobbish and cruel.

But Lady Antonia, a fine historical writer, has brushed aside the brickbats --
until now. Choosing her words with care, she tells me that she does have regrets
that the book upset some and for some of the more intimate passages.

'I don't regret having the wonderful life that I did have with my husband -- in
the wake of his passing I felt something had to be written about our life and
love,' she says. 'And I don't believe I trespassed across any lines in doing so,
but in hindsight, I suppose, perhaps there were a few details that have ruffled
feathers, not in their content, but more for their true intimacy.'

In the book, published 13 months after Pinter's death from cancer and serialised
by the Daily Mail, she gives a detailed account of the 34 years she spent with
the Nobel Prize-winning writer.

Many accused her of showing no guilt, or indeed mercy, for Pinter's first wife,
the actress Vivien Merchant, who slid into alcoholism and an early death after
the playwright left her for Antonia in the Seventies. There was an unease from
some of her six children, who felt publishing her diaries betrayed the memory of
their father, Lady Antonia's first husband and former Tory MP Sir Hugh Fraser.

Even her brother, Thomas Pakenham, who does not use his title as the eighth Earl
of Longford, was lukewarm about it

So it was against this background that Lady Antonia displayed a reflective mood
-- pointedly missing from her book -- at her publisher Orion's authors' party at
the Royal Opera House. There was, she admits, sadness at some of the reaction to
its publication.

'I am sorry that it has upset some of its readers and I regret having written
the parts that have done just that,' she says.

Nevertheless Lady Antonia, who was memorably lampooned as Lady Magnesia Freelove
by the satirical magazine Private Eye, grandly adds: 'I don't think I would
rewrite it in any different form.

'It was a wholly true account and I told everyone from the start that I'd leave
the storytelling of Harold's life well alone and would only disclose our story
-- our story as husband and wife.'

MEET THE PRISONER'S FRIEND

HER father is used to springing political surprises -- he was the Tories'
largest donor until he was booted out for supporting UKIP -- so spread betting
tycoon Stuart Wheeler's lofty model daughter Jacquetta seems to be following in
the family tradition. For Jacquetta, I learn, has a new job, working to help
those prisoners incarcerated in Guantanamo Bay, on death row and elsewhere.
'Jacquetta has just started work for Reprieve, the charity that helps prisoners
facing the death penalty,' Wheeler tells me at the champagne launch of his new
book, A Crisis Of Trust, held in his Mayfair penthouse. 'I'm very proud of her.'
His daughter is modest about her new role. 'I am working four days a week
researching into the lot of prisoners on death row and those in Guantanamo --
some of whom have been there for eight years,' she says. 'I've managed to fit in
a bit of modelling for London Fashion Week, but I'm spending most of my time at
the London office of Reprieve.' She adds: 'By taking an interest in human rights
I feel I am following in my father's footsteps. I am very proud to be his
daughter. 'Of course, it is hard to read about terrible, agonising tortures, but
I have to detach myself from emotion and pain.'

IS BEATRICE POTTY FOR DAVE?

THEY were supposed to be looking at the frocks on the catwalk at London Fashion
Week yesterday. But Princess Beatrice and her handsome Americanborn boyfriend
Dave Clark only had eyes -- and whispers, and smiles, and giggles -- for each
other at the Issa catwalk show at Somerset House. Clearly Beatrice, 21, who has
dropped two dress sizes training for the London Marathon, found more to gaze at
off the runway than on it. 'It's almost as if nobody else was there,' says a
fellow spectator.

THERE was a fright at the Opera House for theatrical agent Jonathan Shalit as he
stretched his legs in his VIP seat at the BAFTAs. Sitting in front of him were
James Bolton and Martina Amati, whose film I Do Air won the award for best short
film.

The pair were happily examining their heavy bronze trophy when they dropped it
-- on to Shalit's foot. It evinced a startled howl of pain. 'It was a complete
accident and quite funny in hindsight,' says Shalit. 'Ironically I have just
changed the name of my company to Roar Global. I hope no one thinks the noise I
made was an advert for it.'

THE Duke of Devonshire's 'Call me Mister-plea has not gone down well with the
rest of the nobility. 'Only someone as grand as the Duke of Devonshire would
dismiss a dukedom just like that,' says one lower-league aristo.

'Typical Whiggish behaviour -- just like his ancestors,' sniffs a Tory toff.
Known to his chums as 'Stoker', the Duke has said that he will drop his titles
and revert to Mr Cavendish the moment the last hereditary peers are removed from
the House of Lords.

But hang on a moment. In among His Grace's many titles is a an impeccably
nonhereditary KCVO -- Knight Commander of the Royal Victorian Order -- which was
awarded to him personally by his friend, the Queen. So, even if he no longer
wishes to be addressed Duke, he should at least style himself Sir Stoker
Cavendish. Anything else could be an insult to HM -- or Mrs Windsor as even the
Duke will probably not be calling her.

ASKED at a lunch for The Oldie magazine yesterday if he had ever had 'a Michael
Howard experience and encountered aliens' -- UFOs were said to have hovered over
the former Tory leader's Folkestone home one night in 1997 -- veteran
Left-Winger Tony Benn quipped: 'No, only when I met members of New Labour.'

PS

LADY Lucinda Lambton and her snooty husband, former editor Sir Peregrine
Worsthorne, have fully endorsed National Trust chairman Sir Simon Jenkins's call
to make great houses more user-friendly. They have also launched an impassioned
plea to the owners of smaller country houses to open their doors to the public.
In this week's Radio Times, the eccentric couple declare: 'Open Sesame. This is
the time for the doors of the modest country house to be flung open for the
crowds to pour through.' So will broadcaster Lucinda and Perry be flinging open
the doors of their handsome Gothic Victorian rectory in the picture postcard
Hedgerley, Bucks? Er no. Lucinda tells me: 'We're not big enough.' Adds Perry:
'It's too small, I'm glad to say.'

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bendy fruit ban is back

SECTION: NEWS 158; 15

LENGTH: 153  words


A PROPOSED ban on bendy fruit and veg was last night condemned as "crackers".

The hated regulations on the size and shape of everything from apricots to
watermelons were lifted by the European Commission last year - ending decades of
food waste.

The move also cut prices by as much as 40 per cent.

But Euro MPs voted to bring back the ban following a meeting of the European
Parliament's Agriculture Committee yesterday.

The plan must still get approval from the full Parliament, the European
Commission and EU Ministers. But it has again raised questions about unnecessary
EU interference. UKIP Euro-MP Stuart Agnew said: "They are crackers."

Tory Euro MP Richard Ashworth said: "Food is food, no matter what it looks like.

"To try to stop stores selling decent food simply because of its shape or size
is morally unjustifiable when we are worried about global food supplies.

"These rules should never have been in place at all."

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday

Comment: Diary: Of course they don't condone or excuse the PM's rages. But at
the Mail, they understand

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 656 words


Isn't it a big something that the paper doing most to make light of Gordon's
volcanic moods and rubbish his accusers should turn out to be the Daily Mail?
Whack! There's a haymaker thrown at the grievance culture. Pow!

An uppercut aimed at Christine Pratt, the bullying helpline troublemaker, also,
according to the Mail, a serial litigant. And some of this may spring from Paul
Dacre's well-documented liking for Gordon Brown as a person. But couldn't
another explanation be the fact that the culture at No 10, as described by
Andrew Rawnsley, and the environment fostered at Daily Mail HQ over the years
are roughly the same. Dacre has mellowed down the years, but would that the
bullying helpline had been in operation the day he bawled out a reporter who
decided that this was one "monstering" too many. Instead of taking it like a
man, the underling turned and walked slowly across the newsroom, pursued by an
apoplectic finger jabbing Dacre, who continued his tirade without pause for
breath. On it went, a verbal sweary tsunami; out of the door, down a corridor,
into the men's room and over the urinals, subsiding only as the two men stood
side by side by the basins. Dacre, seeking to freshen up, splashed water on to
his face. Alas the water was scalding. "You bastard!" he yelled at his
incredulous prey. "You've blinded me."

Would that the helpline had been there when a newly employed reporter was asked
by Dacre how he was finding his new environment. "Oh it's great here," said the
unknowing hack. "They're a great bunch of lads. Everyone has been really
helpful." Wrong answer. "Great bunch of lads?" spat the furious one. "Helpful?
That's not what I want. I want you climbing up each other's fucking backs to get
to the top."

So the Tory lead in the polls is down to seven points and the question being
asked in the heartlands is, just what were you thinking Lord Heseltine in making
your now very public prediction that David Cameron will not win an outright
majority. But then there are many Tories who have never been very sure about
Lord Heseltine. And thanks to papers made available by the Thatcher Foundation,
we are reminded that the revered former prime minister was chief among them. In
1973, during lunch with a US diplomat in London, she lavished praise on Keith
Joseph and even John Gummer but dismissed Hezza as the man with "everything it
took in politics except brains". He was smart enough to take a dim view of her.

But then we have many smart politicians. This, after much deliberation, is the
definitive statement on climate change from Ukip. "Global Warming is crap," says
Ukip leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch.

Many were moved by our item about the stance taken by the London embassy of the
United Arab Emirates towards journalists. "It is our policy - always - not to
comment on anything, ever," a spokeswoman said. And this prompts a recollection
from reader Albert Beale, once the editor of Peace News, of how he obtained a
secret number and called MI5 in the 70s. "I asked in my best voice to be put
through to their 'press office'. A voice then greeted me in a way which made it
clear that my request for a press office had resulted in my connection not to a
department which gave information to journalists, but to one which kept an eye
on journalists." Undaunted, Albert asked his questions. "The result was a
sudden, 'Where did you get this number?', a silence, a few strange noises, and
then a dialling tone."

Finally, well done to environment secretary Hilary Benn (pictured), not a
favourite with many rural communities, for nevertheless seeking to curry favour
with the National Farmers' Union at its conference in Birmingham. But to whoever
arranged the seating plan yesterday so only the letters F and U were visible
behind him during the televised question and answer session, we say: it was not
grown up, it was not clever and it was certainly no way to treat a guest.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Tories make inroads into liberal country as voters switch from Clegg to Cameron

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 1072 words


CORRECTION: A graphic showing Liberal Democrat seats under threat in the South
West (February 24) incorrectly gave the Ladbrokes odds-on favourites in Dorset
Mid & Poole North as the Conservatives at 1-7. In fact, the Liberal Democrats
are favourites there at 4-6.

Voters are abandoning the Liberal Democrats in parts of their South West
stronghold as dislike of Gordon Brown boosts support for the Conservatives.

A tour by The Times of Lib Dem constituencies in the region found genuine signs
of support for the Tories, with voters who backed the Lib Dems in 2005 now
responding positively to the high-spending Tory campaign.

Conservative strategists believe the party is significantly more popular in
swing seats that have been the target of campaign spending by Lord Ashcroft, the
party's deputy chairman. They believe that their advantage in constituencies
such as the 11 Lib Dem marginals in the South West is between three and eight
percentage points higher than the national polls that currently point to a hung
Parliament.

Lord Ashdown, the former Lib Dem leader, however, insists that their opponents'
single message -- that the only way of getting rid of Mr Brown is to vote Tory
-- shows that they have no distinctive message for the region.

The Lib Dems, who have a long history of success in local government, are
struggling to capture the desire for change. The party's attack strategy is
backward-looking, relying on criticising the Thatcher government, while Nick
Clegg gets a lukewarm reception.

Susan Braid, 60, of Saltash near Plymouth, voted Lib Dem in 2005 but said she
would not this time. "I don't really like Nick Clegg. He seems a bit of a wimp.
There is not a lot of backbone," she said. Having seen her savings dwindle
because of low interest rates, she wants change. "I like David Cameron a lot. He
is young, he is a good speaker and he comes across as a genuine and honest man.
We would be much better with him as the Prime Minister." Mrs Braid lives in the
South East Cornwall constituency currently held by retiring Lib Dem Colin Breed.
Unaware of his successor -- barrister Karen Gillard -- or her Tory opponent
Sheryll Murray, the spokeswoman for the Save Britain's Fish campaign, Mrs Braid
said she will be voting for a new government rather than a new MP. "We need
everyone to vote, and vote Brown out. He is an idiot who has done nothing but
got us into debt."

Ms Gillard, herself once a Tory, insists that canvass returns show that she is
almost certain to take over the seat. With a notional majority of 5,485, it is
one of the seats the Conservatives need in order for them to have a chance of
winning an overall majority.

Some Liberal Democrat MPs acknowledge that some losses seem inevitable,
suggesting that up to five seats may be at risk. But Lord Rennard, the Lib Dem
strategist and former party chief executive, argues that few people dislike the
Lib Dems in the same way that they hate Labour.

"Where we have a very good popular local MP then we tend to retain them," he
said.

"Incumbency has become much more of a factor in retaining seats -- but
especially so for Lib Dems."

East of Plymouth, in the new seat of Newton Abbot, which will be contested by
Richard Younger Ross with a notional majority of 4,830, there is little comfort
to be had. Sarah, a mother from the town, said the Lib Dems were brilliant
locally but that she would vote Conservative at the general election.

Mr Younger Ross admitted that the Tories were likely to outspend him
significantly, lavishing £100,000 in his seat with 12 glossy leaflets and
newspapers being sent out in the past 18 months. But he insisted that this
polarised the political community. "We recruited eight new deliverers last
night. That's an indication people will come out to help us. People are far more
determined."

The Lib Dem strategy in the South West is to present themselves as a
left-of-centre party, appealing to poorer voters by presenting plans for an
income tax cut. Their key Tory attack line is to blame high water bills on
Margaret Thatcher's privatisation of South West Water in 1989.

Disastrous local election results, which saw the loss of Somerset and Devon
county councils to the Tories, and European elections where they came third in
the region behind the Conservatives and UKIP, mean they have lost foot soldiers,
and morale. Though many Lib Dems insist they have repaired some of the damage
evident a year ago, significant gains for the Tories here will help Mr Cameron
to enter Downing Street.

Rob Hayward, a polling analyst who advises the Conservatives, said significant
population change means there are new voters who have traditionally not
supported the Lib Dems.

"In many cases the constituency electorate has grown by 2,500-4,000 since the
last election. Most of these will have moved from areas where there is no
tradition of voting Lib Dem. They are also most likely to be retirees, the age
group which is least likely to vote Liberal Democrat."

Liberal Democrat candidates acknowledge that Mr Clegg is failing to attract
voters and are happy for Lord Ashdown, his predecessor, to help on the doorstep.

"Nick Clegg is a bit of a wet lettuce leaf," said one young mother in Newton
Abbot, expressing a view felt by several people who voted Lib Dem when Charles
Kennedy led the party into the last election in 2005.Adrian Sanders, the Liberal
Democrat fighting Torbay, said: "Don't underestimate the impact of Paddy. He can
come down as many times as he wants."

Labour activists have been told to concentrate on seats they already hold such
as Exeter, where Ben Bradshaw, the Culture Secretary, is standing, and Plymouth.

Jack Gorton, 78, said he had been a Labour voter all his life and hated Margaret
Thatcher, but was switching to the Tories. "Nick Clegg doesn't come into it.
David Cameron seems to be young enough to get ahead and he's got good ideas," he
said.

Sources: Colin Rallings & Michael Thrasher. Odds from Ladbrokes Somerton & Frome
0.56 (Cons 4-6) Cornwall North 3.43 (Cons 5-6) 5.35 (Lib Dems 8-11) St Austell &
Newquay 6.22 (Cons 4-6) 4.63 (Lib Dems 8-11) Cornwall South East 5.89 (Cons
8-11) Dorset Mid & Poole North 6.56 (Cons 1-7) 0 56(4 Devon North Truro &
Falmouth Camborne & Redruth 5.13 (Cons 7-4) Torbay 3.01 (Cons 2-5) Newton Abbot
5.25 (Lib Dems 1-6) Taunton Dean 1.65 (Cons 8-11) (Includes Ladbrokes
favourites, with odds) Lib Dem seats under threat in the South West Percentage
swing needed for a Tory gain

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Karen Gillard, a former Conservative, is standing for the Lib Dems in
South East Cornwall - a seat the Tories need if they are to win the election.
She is confident of victory but The Times found many voters unconvinced by her
party
ADAM GERRARD / SWNS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          February 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories make inroads into liberal country as voters switch from Clegg to Cameron

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 1072 words


CORRECTION: A graphic showing Liberal Democrat seats under threat in the South
West (February 24) incorrectly gave the Ladbrokes odds-on favourites in Dorset
Mid & Poole North as the Conservatives at 1-7. In fact, the Liberal Democrats
are favourites there at 4-6.

Voters are abandoning the Liberal Democrats in parts of their South West
stronghold as dislike of Gordon Brown boosts support for the Conservatives.

A tour by The Times of Lib Dem constituencies in the region found genuine signs
of support for the Tories, with voters who backed the Lib Dems in 2005 now
responding positively to the high-spending Tory campaign.

Conservative strategists believe the party is significantly more popular in
swing seats that have been the target of campaign spending by Lord Ashcroft, the
party's deputy chairman. They believe that their advantage in constituencies
such as the 11 Lib Dem marginals in the South West is between three and eight
percentage points higher than the national polls that currently point to a hung
Parliament.

Lord Ashdown, the former Lib Dem leader, however, insists that their opponents'
single message -- that the only way of getting rid of Mr Brown is to vote Tory
-- shows that they have no distinctive message for the region.

The Lib Dems, who have a long history of success in local government, are
struggling to capture the desire for change. The party's attack strategy is
backward-looking, relying on criticising the Thatcher government, while Nick
Clegg gets a lukewarm reception.

Susan Braid, 60, of Saltash near Plymouth, voted Lib Dem in 2005 but said she
would not this time. "I don't really like Nick Clegg. He seems a bit of a wimp.
There is not a lot of backbone," she said. Having seen her savings dwindle
because of low interest rates, she wants change. "I like David Cameron a lot. He
is young, he is a good speaker and he comes across as a genuine and honest man.
We would be much better with him as the Prime Minister."

Mrs Braid lives in the South East Cornwall constituency currently held by
retiring Lib Dem Colin Breed. Unaware of his successor -- barrister Karen
Gillard -- or her Tory opponent Sheryll Murray, the spokeswoman for the Save
Britain's Fish campaign, Mrs Braid said she will be voting for a new government
rather than a new MP. "We need everyone to vote, and vote Brown out. He is an
idiot who has done nothing but got us into debt."

Ms Gillard, herself once a Tory, insists that canvass returns show that she is
almost certain to take over the seat. With a notional majority of 5,485, it is
one of the seats the Conservatives need in order for them to have a chance of
winning an overall majority.

Some Liberal Democrat MPs acknowledge that some losses seem inevitable,
suggesting that up to five seats may be at risk. But Lord Rennard, the Lib Dem
strategist and former party chief executive, argues that few people dislike the
Lib Dems in the same way that they hate Labour.

"Where we have a very good popular local MP then we tend to retain them," he
said.

"Incumbency has become much more of a factor in retaining seats -- but
especially so for Lib Dems."

East of Plymouth, in the new seat of Newton Abbot, which will be contested by
Richard Younger Ross with a notional majority of 4,830, there is little comfort
to be had. Sarah, a mother from the town, said the Lib Dems were brilliant
locally but that she would vote Conservative at the general election.

Mr Younger Ross admitted that the Tories were likely to outspend him
significantly, lavishing £100,000 in his seat with 12 glossy leaflets and
newspapers being sent out in the past 18 months. But he insisted that this
polarised the political community. "We recruited eight new deliverers last
night. That's an indication people will come out to help us. People are far more
determined."

The Lib Dem strategy in the South West is to present themselves as a
left-of-centre party, appealing to poorer voters by presenting plans for an
income tax cut. Their key Tory attack line is to blame high water bills on
Margaret Thatcher's privatisation of South West Water in 1989.

Disastrous local election results, which saw the loss of Somerset and Devon
county councils to the Tories, and European elections where they came third in
the region behind the Conservatives and UKIP, mean they have lost foot soldiers,
and morale. Though many Lib Dems insist they have repaired some of the damage
evident a year ago, significant gains for the Tories here will help Mr Cameron
to enter Downing Street.

Rob Hayward, a polling analyst who advises the Conservatives, said significant
population change means there are new voters who have traditionally not
supported the Lib Dems.

"In many cases the constituency electorate has grown by 2,500-4,000 since the
last election. Most of these will have moved from areas where there is no
tradition of voting Lib Dem. They are also most likely to be retirees, the age
group which is least likely to vote Liberal Democrat."

Liberal Democrat candidates acknowledge that Mr Clegg is failing to attract
voters and are happy for Lord Ashdown, his predecessor, to help on the doorstep.

"Nick Clegg is a bit of a wet lettuce leaf," said one young mother in Newton
Abbot, expressing a view felt by several people who voted Lib Dem when Charles
Kennedy led the party into the last election in 2005.Adrian Sanders, the Liberal
Democrat fighting Torbay, said: "Don't underestimate the impact of Paddy. He can
come down as many times as he wants."

Labour activists have been told to concentrate on seats they already hold such
as Exeter, where Ben Bradshaw, the Culture Secretary, is standing, and Plymouth.

Jack Gorton, 78, said he had been a Labour voter all his life and hated Margaret
Thatcher, but was switching to the Tories. "Nick Clegg doesn't come into it.
David Cameron seems to be young enough to get ahead and he's got good ideas," he
said.

Sources: Colin Rallings & Michael Thrasher. Odds from Ladbrokes Somerton & Frome
0.56 (Cons 4-6) Cornwall North 3.43 (Cons 5-6) 5.35 (Lib Dems 8-11) St Austell &
Newquay 6.22 (Cons 4-6) 4.63 (Lib Dems 8-11) Cornwall South East 5.89 (Cons
8-11) 6.56 (Cons 1-7) 0 56(4 Devon North Truro & Falmouth Dorset Mid & Poole
North Camborne & Redruth 5.13 (Cons 7-4) Torbay 3.01 (Cons 2-5) Newton Abbot
5.25 (Lib Dems 1-6) Taunton Dean 1.65 (Cons 8-11) (Includes Ladbrokes
favourites, with odds) Lib Dem seats under threat in the South West Percentage
swing needed for a Tory gain

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Karen Gillard, a former Conservative, is standing for the Lib Dems in
South East Cornwall - a seat the Tories need if they are to win the election.
She is confident of victory but The Times found many voters unconvinced by her
party
ADAM GERRARD / SWNS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

Front: Hung parliament looms as Tory support crumbles: ICM poll reveals gap down
to seven points: Voters losing faith in Tories on economy: Bullying charity
under attack over No 10 claim

BYLINE: Julian Glover and Patrick Wintour

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 856 words


Support for David Cameron's Conservative party has crumbled to its lowest point
for nearly two years, according to the latest monthly Guardian/ICM poll, leaving
Britain on course for a hung parliament at the coming general election.

The survey, showing the Conservatives holding only a seven-point lead, will come
as a relief to Gordon Brown as he continued to fend off potentially lethal
claims over his complex character, including suggestions that he bullies staff.

The accusations - which surfaced in a book by the Observer's political
commentator Andrew Rawnsley - sparked another day of frantic political
manoeuvring yesterday.

One of the Tory party's best known MPs, Ann Widdecombe, quit as a patron of the
National Bullying Helpline, the charity which on Sunday sparked a storm at
Westminster when its founder, Christine Pratt, entered the political fray,
saying she had received four complaints of bullying from No 10 staff.

Last night the charity was close to implosion as other patrons also resigned,
saying Pratt had acted unethically. Among those who quit were the television
presenter Sarah Cawood and the workplace stress expert Cary Cooper. There were
also reports that Tory councillor for Hillingdon Mary O'Connor resigned.

The helpline withdrew any suggestion that the complaints involved Brown, and had
to fend off criticism that it had close ties to the Conservative party.

The cabinet secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, also rejected calls for a public
inquiry and denied he had ever raised concerns with Brown about intimidatory or
bullying behaviour to No 10 staff.

In an interview in the Economist, Brown gave his first direct response since
Rawnsley's allegations were published. "The cabinet secretary has made it clear
that he's had no inquiries, there's been no reprimand, there's been no private
message to me . . . (The) story is completely wrong," Brown said.

The Tory hierarchy, though, will be alarmed at the party's vulnerability to
Labour attacks since the new year. With no more than three months to go until
polling day, the Conservatives have fallen to 37%, down three points on last
month's Guardian/ICM poll and down two on another ICM poll earlier this month.

The party has not fallen so low in an ICM poll since the tail-end of the banking
crisis, last falling to 37% in February 2008.

As recently as last October, the Tories hit 45% in an ICM poll and the party
will be alarmed by this latest evidence that the race is tightening. Meanwhile,
Labour support, at 30%, is eight points up on its ICM low last May, and slightly
above its average for the second part of last year.

The opposition has also lost ground on key policy issues, including the economy,
and may be losing their campaign against Labour's so-called death tax.

Labour leads the Tories by eight points as the party with the best policy on
care for the elderly. The two parties are neck-and-neck on their ability to sort
out the economic crisis, against a nine-point Tory lead on this in August 2009.

The economic finding tallies with Labour polling suggesting the Tories are not
making inroads with their policy of highlighting the scale of the public deficit
and the need to take immediate action to cut it. One Labour source said: "The
real valuable political real estate in Britain now is the optimism."

Labour also claims its personal polling of Cameron shows he is seen as "too
shrill, divisive and not speaking for Britain any longer". Labour claims it is
succeeding in portraying Cameron as a man running a concealment strategy, caught
between his branding and his beliefs.

Labour's static poll position is not all good news for No 10 - the ICM poll
shows no boost for the party after Brown's emotional television interview with
Piers Morgan.

Research began last Friday and most was done before the serialisation of
Rawnsley's book in the Observer. A fifth of responses were collected on Sunday.

Nick Clegg's hopes of a powerful place in a hung parliament are also boosted by
the poll, which puts the Liberal Democrats on 20%, unchanged on the most recent
ICM and down one point on last month's Guardian poll.

All this suggests Labour and the Lib Dems are holding steady, while the Tories
are losing ground to smaller parties. Nationalists are on 5%, Ukip and the
Greens on 3% each and the BNP on 2%.

Estimates of what these shares would mean on polling day vary, but a 7% lead is
at the margins of what the Tories think they need to win an overall majority.

Brown will be hoping the controversy over his character will fade before the
election campaign begins in earnest.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults by telephone on 19-21
February 2010. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have
been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules

Leader comment, page 32 >=

How a random sample of 1,004 voters polled by ICM last weekend said they would
vote in a general election

4-5>=

16>=

Captions:

Christine Pratt, the founder of the National Bullying Helpline, is under
pressure after several patrons of her charity resigned Photograph: Dominic
Lipinski

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

Hung parliament looms as Tory support crumbles

BYLINE: Patrick Wintourguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 863 words

ABSTRACT

David Cameron's Conservative party has sunk to its lowest level of popularity in
two years as a hung parliament becomes increasingly likely

FULL TEXT

Support for David Cameron's Conservative party has crumbled to its lowest point
for nearly two years, according to the latest monthly Guardian/ICM poll, leaving
Britain on course for a hung parliament at the coming general election.

The survey, showing the Conservatives holding only a seven-point lead, will come
as a relief to Gordon Brown as he continued to fend off potentially lethal
claims over his complex character, including suggestions that he bullies staff.

The accusations - which surfaced in a book by the Observer's political
commentator Andrew Rawnsley - sparked another day of frantic political
manoeuvring yesterday.

One of the Tory party's best known MPs, Ann Widdecombe, quit as a patron of the
National Bullying Helpline, the charity which on Sunday sparked a storm at
Westminster when its founder, Christine Pratt, entered the political fray,
saying she had received four complaints of bullying from No 10 staff.

Last night the charity was close to implosion as other patrons also resigned,
saying Pratt had acted unethically. Among those who quit were the television
presenter Sarah Cawood and the workplace stress expert Cary Cooper. There were
also reports that Tory councillor for Hillingdon Mary O'Connor resigned.

The helpline withdrew any suggestion that the complaints involved Brown, and had
to fend off criticism that it had close ties to the Conservative party.

The cabinet secretary, Sir Gus O'Donnell, also rejected calls for a public
inquiry and denied he had ever raised concerns with Brown about intimidatory or
bullying behaviour to No 10 staff.

In an interview in the Economist, Brown gave his first direct response since
Rawnsley's allegations were published. "The cabinet secretary has made it clear
that he's had no inquiries, there's been no reprimand, there's been no private
message to me ... (The) story is completely wrong," Brown said.

The Tory hierarchy, though, will be alarmed at the party's vulnerability to
Labour attacks since the new year. With no more than three months to go until
polling day, the Conservatives have fallen to 37%, down three points on last
month's Guardian/ICM poll and down two on another ICM poll earlier this month.

The party has not fallen so low in an ICM poll since the tail-end of the banking
crisis, last falling to 37% in February 2008.

As recently as last October, the Tories hit 45% in an ICM poll and the party
will be alarmed by this latest evidence that the race is tightening, which
confirms the findings of some other recent polls. Meanwhile, Labour support, at
30%, is eight points up on its absolute ICM low last May, and slightly above its
average for the second part of last year.

The opposition has also lost ground on key policy issues, including the economy,
and may be losing their campaign against Labour's so-called death tax.

Labour leads the Tories by eight points as the party with the best policy on
care for the elderly. The two parties are neck-and-neck on their ability to sort
out the economic crisis, against a nine-point Tory lead when the question was
last asked in August 2009.

The economic finding tallies with Labour polling suggesting the Tories are not
making inroads with their policy of highlighting the scale of the public deficit
and the need to take immediate action to cut it. One Labour source said: "The
real valuable political real estate in Britain now is the optimism."

Labour also claims that its personal polling of Cameron shows he is seen as "too
shrill, divisive and not speaking for Britain any longer". Labour claims it is
succeeding in portraying Cameron as a man running a concealment strategy, caught
between his branding and his beliefs.

Labour's static poll position is not all good news for No 10 - the ICM poll
shows no boost for the party after Brown's emotional and revealing television
interview with Piers Morgan.

Research began last Friday and most was done before the serialisation of
Rawnsley's book in the Observer, which may also have affected Labour support. A
fifth of responses were collected on Sunday.

Nick Clegg's hopes of a powerful place in a hung parliament are also boosted by
the poll, which puts the Liberal Democrats on 20%, unchanged on the most recent
ICM and down one point on last month's Guardian poll.

All this suggests Labour and the Lib Dems are holding steady, while the Tories
are losing ground to smaller parties. Nationalists are on 5%, Ukip and the
Greens on 3% each and the BNP on 2%.

Estimates of what these shares would mean for the parties on polling day vary,
but a 7% lead is at the margins of what the Tories think they need to win an
overall majority.

Brown will be hoping that the controversy over his character will blow out long
before the actual election campaign begins in earnest.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults by telephone on 19-21
February 2010. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results have
been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           February 23, 2010 Tuesday

The opposition to Cameron sharpens its knives - but it's not Labour

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1189 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: The Tory right will give their leader a lot of grief when he
enters No 10

FULL TEXT

At a penthouse book launch party in Mayfair last night I caught a glimpse of the
opposition David Cameron will face when he becomes prime minister, in, I expect,
difficult circumstances this spring.

It was not a comforting sight and is made more significant by , the latest to
point to a hung parliament after the election. It underlines how much Cameron
will need all the friends he can get, especially on his own side.

Last night's party was thrown by Sir Stuart Wheeler, investment banker turned
spread-bet mogul, to mark the publication by the  of his new booklet, A Crisis
of Trust: How Trust Broke Down in Britain.

The opposition on view was not the Labour crowd who will be demoralised and
divided after their defeat, but the unreconstructed Tory right, what I will
carefully call the Ukip fellow-traveller tendency, which clustered admiringly
around Norman Tebbit.

I like Norman, who is always good company and interesting; not a humbug either.
He made a witty and typically edgy little speech at last night's bash, at
Wheeler's London home. With typical modesty, Wheeler forbore to make his own
speech.

But Lord Tebbit is a much better politician than the mild-mannered and courteous
Wheeler, who managed to get himself expelled from the Tory party (to which he
gave a doomed £5m in 2001) last year. His crime? Saying he would be voting for
Ukip in the Euro-elections. Norman merely suggested voters "don't vote for the
three main parties". Crafty chap.

Wheeler gave Ukip money too, having made a reported £90m when he sold IG Index
and bought himself Chilham Castle in Kent. "Stuart's a sweetie and he's very
honest," remarked one close associate as I made for the door. I agree, but I
would feel safer in the jungle with Tebbit, frail though he now is.

That said, it's a pretty eccentric book which I expect Sir Stu - 75 this year -
financed himself. It would more sensibly be called: Bees in my Bonnet: Ah, I
feel Better for Getting that off my Chest.

Bzzzz, Bzzzz, Bzzzz.

Thus the first 47 pages are devoted to the crisis arising from the MPs' expenses
scandal; the next 22 to the economic crisis, the EU and climate change, on all
of which Wheeler presents orthodox rightwing views; then our author reverts to
his remedies for solving MPs' pay and expenses over the remaining eight pages.
Bzzzz.

He regards the crisis as the "British Watergate" (a very daft comparison) and
seems to think the US remedy - he is very romantic about America - of appointing
a special prosecutor to investigate was a brilliant innovation, not the useless
one it has actually proved to be. In fairness he read law at Oxford, an
experience which tends to narrow the mind. Bzzzz, Bzzzz.

It is not that it is a bad book. I learned several new facts and agree with a
lot of the Wheeler diagnosis and even some of his remedies.

Yes, treating MPs like salaried career civil servants (a trend dating from Tory
1971) was bound to store up trouble. Yes, the proposed new arrangements may well
make matters worse. No, a special court to try MPs' transgressions (Wheeler's
proposal) would not be a good idea.

What is most striking about the slim volume is who Stuart's enemies are.
Clearly, as a wealthy Eton-and-Christ Church man, gambling chum of Jimmy
Goldsmith and the probably-late Lord Lucan, he does not much like Labour.

But far more invective and scorn is directed at the Cameroons in general and
David Cameron in particular. The Tory leader is a man he seems to regard as an
unprincipled opportunist, more deft than Gordon Brown - not difficult - but at
least as culpable in matters of expenses. He is also accused here of protecting
proteges like Michael Gove from deserved censure.

It goes without saying that Margaret Thatcher, whose portrait has pride of place
in the Mayfair penthouse, gets off lightly though it was her government in the
shape of John Biffen that fatefully allowed MPs to charge for mortgage costs
instead of overnight London hotel bills after 1985.

The bankers get off lightly too, their crisis a symptom of mistakes made by
governments and regulators, not a cause of the crisis, Wheeler says. Europe is
the usual Bruges Group mixture of cowardice and betrayal with only Mrs T taking
any "practical action" to stop the federalist ratchet.

That is an absurd thing to say if you accept (as I think we do) that Brown
blocked Tony Blair's efforts to join the euro.

Climate change? Don't even ask. Wheeler, an honest man but also a lawyer by
training, is in favour of honesty and openness among scientists and politicians
advocating action to stem the effects of man-made climate change.

I agree, but want the other side to agree, too. A few minutes ago a Ukip email
dropped advertising a speech by Nigel Lawson's son-in-law, Viscount Christopher
Monckton ("undoubtedly the world's leading climate change sceptic"). It arrived
under the headline: "'Global warming is crap,' says Ukip leader Lord Pearson of
Rannoch".

Pearson, who boasts of hoping to deprive Dave of up to 50 seats on 6 May, was
present at the Wheeler party. So were a smattering of Tory and ex-Tory peers and
MPs, free market academics like Tim Condon, hacks, wives and young women in
search of a hedge-fund husband.

What was I doing there? I've no idea, except that I like troublemakers and can
see that in that room full of misfits were almost certainly half a dozen
romantics who would take to the Chilterns with their hunting guns to resist a
foreign conqueror.

I went to the penthouse once before, one of a party of hacks summoned to dinner
in 2006 to be sounded out about who Wheeler should back/fund for next Tory
leader. I warned him against wasting his time on Liam Fox, so Wheeler went out
and backed him, silly boy.

When Fox inevitably fell at the first hurdle, Stuart transferred his allegiance
to David Davis, thereby clinching David Cameron's victory. That's why I like
him: first over the barbed wire and straight into the enemy guns.

It goes without saying that another of Wheeler's pet targets is John Bercow, the
Speaker. I wouldn't be so unkind as to point out to my host that it was the
tactical genius of Wheeler-ish rightwing Tory Douglas "Kamikaze" Carswell MP in
driving Michael Martin to resign that got Bercow the job last summer.

All the same the right will give Cameron a lot of grief when he enters No 10. He
has never been wholly master of his party, as his atavistic policy on Europe
suggests and his wobbles on tax and spending underline.

They do not love him and their reserves of over-confidence and ideological
certainty - naivety if you prefer - could make them behave like Bennites during
the last hung parliament of 1976-79. The comparison is not kindly meant.

In the process they will all learn that in government they are playing with live
ammunition by blowing their own feet off. Is Etonian Dave tough enough to master
fellow Etonians and their rougher comrades - as John Major was not?

I hope so because the country will need a strong government in the coming years.

But I remain to be convinced.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            February 22, 2010 Monday

GIANT MOSQUE'S TOWERS 'WILL LOOM OVER SANDHURST'

BYLINE: BY DAN NEWLING

LENGTH: 453 words


GENERALS are trying to block plans to build a mosque with two 100ft minarets
next to Sandhurst.

The £3million building would have a clear view over the military academy and is
just 400 yards from its parade ground.

Senior officers oppose the project saying it could pose a secuchangedrity threat
to cadets. Yesterday an Army source said: 'This has gone right to the top of the
chain of command.

'There is very real concern that if this thing gets built then soldiers could be
put at risk.

'It is outrageous to even think that the officers of the future would have to
watch their backs while they are still in training.'

Hundreds of newlycommissioned Army officers take to the parade ground each year
for the academy's passing out ceremony.

The event attracts senior members of the Royal Family, including the Queen when
her grandson Prince Harry was commissioned in 2006. The gigantic mosque is the
idea of the Bengali Welfare Association, which worships at the al-Kharafi
Islamic Centre in Camberley, Surrey.

The group wants to demolish a listed Victorian school building in use as a
mosque at the centre and replace it with a sprawling Saudi Arabianstyle
building.

Planning papers reveal that the massive structure would tower over local
buildings.

As well as the two minarets, it would feature a large central dome, five smaller
outlying domes, a morgue, a library and a separate worship area for women.

The first attempt at securing planning approval led to objections from 1,000
locals. Planning officers were also opposed but Conservative-dominated Surrey
Heath gave the mosque the go-ahead last month.

However, a procedural error means the application now needs to go to a full
council meeting for approval.

And the Ministry of Defence ñ which initially had no objections ñ has its mind
to insist that the minarets are not built.

Local MEP Nigel Farage of UKIP, who is battling the plans, said: 'I am appalled
that a local council can totally ignore the wishes of the overwhelming majority
of the electorate of Camberley and overturn the recommendations of planning
officers.

'This building is quite simply inappropriate and gives rise to genuine security
concerns. I know that senior military officers are extremely concerned about
this. It simply cannot be allowed to go ahead.'

Alan Kirkland, a local campaigner, said: 'Local people are simply flabbergasted
that 100ft high minarets can be built right next to the Royal Military Academy.
There is obviously a security risk and there is no way that it should be built.'

A Ministry of Defence spokesman said: 'Defence Estates has objected to the plans
as such a tall building would give oversight into Defence property which could
prove a security risk.'

d.newling@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 22, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clarke in confidential talks to calm Europe's fear of Tories

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 257 words


KEN CLARKE is to hold secret talks in Brussels tomorrow with José Manuel
Barroso, the European Commission President, to assure him that the EU would have
nothing to fear from a Conservative government.

The two-day visit by the most pro-EU member of David Cameron's cabinet-inwaiting
is seen by European officials as a sign that a Tory administration would work
with Brussels.

Mr Clarke, the shadow business secretary, is expected to seek concessions on
financial and employment regulations during the meetings, which are not listed
on the European Commission's official diary.

Fiona Hall, the leader of the European Liberal Democrats, suggested the secrecy
meant "the Tories have something to hide". "What deal will he do? Will he sell
out his own beliefs or those of his anti-European colleagues?" Mr Clarke will
also meet Michel Barnier, the French Commissioner for the internal market, and
other senior members of the EU executive for talks that were scheduled after a
Tory request. Sources at Brussels told The Daily Telegraph that the EU may be
ready to offer concessions to Mr Clarke in return for assurances that the Tories
will not obstruct them.

"If it is clear that Mr Cameron is prepared to work with us then we might have
to show we are prepared to offer a concession in return," said an official.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's European Parliament leader, claimed that Mr Clarke was
preparing to betray Tory eurosceptics in readiness for government.

A Conservative spokesman yesterday confirmed the meetings but declined to
discuss "a routine visit".

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 22, 2010 Monday

Britain heading for hung parliament - Guardian/ICM poll

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 501 words

ABSTRACT

Tories might not win election outright, suggests new survey

FULL TEXT

The Conservatives should no longer count on winning the election outright,
according to a Guardian/ICM poll published today.

The new survey suggests Britain is on course for a hung parliament amid
faltering public support for David Cameron's party.

The opposition have also lost ground on key policy issues, including the
economy, and in particular may be losing their campaign against Labour's
so-called "death tax". Labour leads the Tories by eight points as the party with
the best policy on care for the elderly.

The two parties are neck and neck on their ability to sort out the economic
crisis, against a nine-point Tory lead when the question was last asked in
August 2009.

With no more than three months to go until polling day, the Conservatives have
fallen to 37%, down three on last month's Guardian/ICM poll and down two on
another ICM poll earlier this month.

The party has not fallen so low in an ICM poll since the tail end of the banking
crisis, last falling to 37% in February 2008.

As recently as last October the Tories hit 45% in an ICM poll and the party will
be alarmed by this latest evidence that the race is tightening, which confirms
the findings of some other recent polls.

Meanwhile Labour's support, at 30%, is eight points up on its absolute ICM
bottom last May, and slightly above its average for the second part of last
year. However, there is no sign of either a boost for the party following Gordon
Brown's Piers Morgan interview or a fall after this weekend's reports about
Brown bullying his staff.

Labour's support is up one point on the last Guardian/ICM poll and unchanged
from the most recent ICM poll. Research began last Friday and most was carried
out before the serialisation of Andrew Rawnsley's book in yesterday's Observer,
which may have affected Labour support. Around a fifth of responses were
collected on Sunday.

Nick Clegg's hopes of a powerful place in a hung parliament are also boosted by
today's poll, which puts the Liberal Democrats on 20%, unchanged from the most
recent ICM and down one on last month's Guardian poll.

All this suggests that Labour and the Lib Dems are holding steady while the
Conservatives lose some ground to smaller parties, which are on a total of 13%.
Nationalists are on 5%, Ukip and the Greens on 3% each and the BNP on 2%.

Estimates of what these shares would mean for the parties on polling day vary,
but a 7% lead is at the margins of what the Tories think they need to win a
majority. One academic calculation suggests the result would leave Labour only
25 seats behind the Tories in a hung parliament, although any improved Tory
performance in marginal seats would offset that.

· ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,004 adults by telephone on 15-17
February 2010. ­Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 22, 2010 Monday 10:44 PM GMT

Heseltine could be right about a hung Parliament. But he's wrong about the
reason why it could happen

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 856 words


Michael Heseltine certainly hit the headlines yesterday with his tip for a
neck-and-neck finish in the General Election Stakes. As he put it: "If I was a
betting man, my money would be the election resulting in a hung Parliament with
David Cameron as Prime Minister."

That is what a lot of people in politics and outsiders alike have been saying to
me for some time - but what puzzles me is whether Michael Heseltine, who is in
Camp Cameron as an adviser on inner cities, was just speaking for himself or as
an unofficial spokesman for the leadership. As I have written before, no leader
should be panicked by one opinion poll which might well be a rogue, but a run of
polls establishing a trend is something to be taken seriously. Another poll on
Sunday put the Tories down at 39 per cent and NuLab up at 33, shaving Cameron's
lead to only six per cent.

Clearly Heseltine, or whoever he had been talking to before he made his comment,
was worried about the trend of the polls - but had not given much thought to the
matter, because he repeated the parrot cry about the cause of the Tory Party's
difficulties, saying: "There is a range of people who are supporting the Labour
Party who would never have supported it over the 1960s and 1970s."

No, No, No. (To coin a phrase.) Look at the figures. In 1964 Labour polled 12.2
million votes, in 1966, they scored 13.1 million, in 1970 it was 12.2, in the
two elections in 1974 they polled 11.6 and 11.5 million votes and even in the
great defeat of 1979 they still managed 11.5 million against Margaret Thatcher's
13.7 million.

In the elections of 2001 and 2005 they polled 10.7 and 9.5 million votes
respectively.

In other words, there is a range of people, about one or two million of them,
who used to support Labour but do not any more. Unfortunately, the Conservative
Party has an even worse problem. Its vote is down by something more like 2.5 to
5.5 million.

If in the face of the most disastrous government since we lost the American
colonies the best the opposition can expect is a hung Parliament, it is time
that Camp Cameron asked itself some serious questions. Of course there will be
many people, like Phil Keane, a regular poster of comments on this site, who
quite rightly point to the potential horrors of another bout of the NuLab
infection, saying that we all have a duty to vote in the best way to avoid that.
It is the most powerful argument for voting Conservative to be heard at present,
but surely we should be hearing some more powerful and positive arguments than
that.

Just think about the numbers again. In 2005 Labour could poll only 9.5 million
votes. Even in John Major's ghastly defeat of 1997 he polled 9.6 million. This
election ought to be a walkover for the Tories and an absolute annihilation of
Labour.

I think Michael Heseltine owes us all not only a betting tip, but also a better
explanation of why he thinks what should be the favourite for a runaway win
against the most clapped out old nag ever to be entered in the General Election
Stakes is not in better form.

It may be that John Rigby, who posted a comment or two on Labour's long history
of gerrymandering, has a very good point, and of course we should never forget
that the grandfather of Peter Mandelson was Herbert Morrison. It was Morrison
who famously declared that he would "build the Tories out of London" by
bulldozing old houses and building massive council housing estates. We
outsmarted him by selling the houses to their tenants, but since then Labour has
responded with unlimited, uncounted, uncontrolled immigration.

Robbydot asked why the three main parties are Europhile. A good question. I will
have to return to that as a main subject for a blog post. Hamish Redux asked who
in the Tory ranks is in most in tune with my views. I do not think I should say.
I would not want him, or her, to be deselected!

And to aristophanes I can only say that I do not think we could ever achieve a
100 per cent boycott of an election, so there would still be a winner to take
office.

Corton wanted to know why I remain a member of the Conservative Party and asks
me to put my country first. I do. That is why I remain a member.I have been
through spells like this before, when I disagreed with Macmillan and Heath. Had
I not remained in the Party I could not have seen them off with Margaret
Thatcher.

I was glad to hear from my one-time supporter in Chingford, aasvogel, but sad
that he like so many others has been driven to go over to UKIP. I understand
why, and nearer to polling day I will offer my advice to voters... but not just
yet.

Debunker wondered if it could really be true that our masters in Brussels could
interfere in how we allocate tickets for the Olympics. Yes, I'm afraid it is.
And it is a consequence of the way in which our masters use the legislation on
the single market for which, God forgive me, I bear some responsibility.

Manmachine asked how the present crisis compared with those of 1980, 1990 or
1940. Well, only in 1940 was our survival as a free nation threatened, albeit in
a very different way to today. Neither 1980 nor 1990 were anything like the
threat we face today.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 22, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Betting tycoon lays big money to unseat Bercow

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 109 words


London Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting millionaire and one of Britain's
biggest political donors, has pledged to give £100,000 to the UK Independence
Party to help it unseat John Bercow, the Commons' Speaker, in the general
election (Suzy Jagger writes).

Mr Wheeler, who was expelled by the Conservative Party for donating money to
UKIP, has also placed a 4-1 bet on Nigel Farage, the former leader of UKIP and
an MEP, to win Mr Bercow's Buckingham seat.

Mr Wheeler told The Times he was disgusted by the amount MPs have paid
themselves. "Their salaries in real terms are higher than they have ever been
and their expenses dwarf their salaries," he said.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               February 21, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 842 words


2007

27 June Enters 10 Downing Street as prime minister, quoting his school motto: "I
will try my utmost". Commentators talk of a Brown "bounce" as an ICM poll has
Labour at 39%.

1 July Brown gets some credit for his handling of the failed attacks carried out
by terrorists in London's West End and Glasgow airport, right

7 July Brown pledges £ 14m relief for Doncaster and Hull after some of the worst
UK flooding in 60 years.

3 August Rushes back from holiday to chair emergency meeting on foot-and-mouth
disease outbreak.

14 September Crisis surrounding Northern Rock grows as investors queue to
withdraw savings, right.

24 September In his first Labour party conference speech as PM he commits to
full employment and repeats his pledge to create "British jobs for British
workers".

6 October Brown calls off a snap autumn election. Critics accuse him of
"bottling" a decision because the Conservatives are polling well.

6 December Labour plans to extend pre-charge detention to up to 42 days for
terror suspects. Brown later drops the idea after suffering a crushing Commons
defeat.

13 December Downing Street blames a "diary clash" as Brown belatedly signs the
EU reform treaty, days after official ceremony.

2008

24 January Peter Hain quits cabinet after failing to declare substantial
donations to his Labour deputy leadership bid in time.

17 February Northern Rock is nationalised .

12 March Alistair Darling's budget raises duty on alcohol but delays 2p-a-litre
petrol tax rise because of surge in oil prices.

21 April Labour MPs worried about families on low income force Brown to rethink
plan to scrap 10p tax band.

2 May Brown says in a BBC interview that "I take responsibility", as Labour
suffers its worst council results in at least 40 years. In the same week, Tory
Boris Johnson is elected mayor of London, right

11 May The Scottish Labour leader, Wendy Alexander, causes consternation when
she calls for an immediate referendum on Scottish independence. Brown pledges to
preserve the United Kingdom.

23 May The Tories win the Crewe and Nantwich by-election, their first
by-election gain in more than 20 years. Having overturned a 7,000 majority,
David Cameron proclaims the "the end of New Labour".

3 October Brown appoints a former adversary, Peter Mandelson,

as business secretary in a new cabinet.

7 November Labour's comfortable win in the Glenrothes by-election is hailed by
Brown as a vote of confidence in the government.

10 December Having won

plaudits for his handling of the economic crisis, Brown's question time gaffe
that he "saved the

world" is greeted by howls of

laughter on the Tory benches.

2009

2 April Prime minister showered with public praise as he greets leaders of the
world's largest economies arriving at the G20 summit in London.

3 March Brown is the first European leader to be welcomed at the White House by
President Barack Obama

29 March Home secretary Jacqui Smith apologises after revelation that she
claimed expenses that included cost of adult movies for her husband. Smith was
already under investigation over her housing allowance.

27 April During a visit to Afghanistan, Brown pledges tougher action in dealing
with the area bordering Pakistan - the "crucible of terror".

3 May Hazel Blears tells Brown "YouTube if you want to" as he grapples with new
media in an attempt to get his message across.

8 May MPs' expenses row erupts after newspaper revelations. Jacqui Smith steps
down, but all parties

are damaged.

9 May The Daily Telegraph reveals that Brown claimed expenses to pay his brother
Andrew £ 6,577 for arranging cleaning services at his Westminster flat in
2004-06.

5 June Former Europe minister Caroline Flint, right, gives Brown both barrels,
saying he treats women ministers as "female window dressing". Flint had quit the
government because she was not promoted.

8 June More misery at the polls for Labour as it falls into third place, behind
Ukip, in the European elections.

22 September Brown is honoured as World Statesman

of the Year in New York for "stabilising" the world economy

and showing "compassionate leadership".

29 September Sarah

Brown adds to the feelgood factor surounding Labour's

Brighton conference, describing her husband

as "messy and noisy",

but also her "hero", in a

speech from the

podium.

9 November Brown apologises to a grieving mother after he misspelt her son's
name in his letter of sympathy. Guardsman Jamie Janes was killed in Afghanistan.

21 December At the Copenhagen summit, Brown says a global treaty on climate
change was "held to ransom" by some countries.

2010

6 January Brown survives an internal plot to unseat him, led by Patricia Hewitt
and Geoff Hoon. He dismisses the story as a "storm in a teacup".

27 January Figures show economy slowly moving out of recession.

2 February Giving evidence to the Chilcot inquiry into the war in Iraq, Clare
Short says Brown was initially marginalised by Tony Blair in the run-up to the
invasion.

14 February Brown speaks candidly about the death of his daughter Jennifer
during a celebrity-style TV interview with Piers Morgan.

Jason Rodrigues

and Luc Torres


LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

The Obama way for party leaders to come clean;
THINK TANK NEW IDEAS FOR THE 21ST CENTURY Stuart Wheeler calls for full
financial disclosures from the would-be PMs

BYLINE: Stuart Wheeler

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 792 words


Ihave spent the past few months writing a short book, A Crisis of Trust, on
Westminster's parliamentary expenses scandal. It saddened me while writing it to
note that the deeper we go into Europe - the issue that got me most interested
in politics - the more European our politics seem to become. So many of the
outrageous details of the expenses claims are exactly the sort of abuses we used
to sneeringly expect of Brussels.

Every penny MPs claimed under the old system - a regime they now all say was
disgraceful - required, first, a solemn declaration that such payments were
claimed solely to enable them to perform their duties as parliamentarians. The
duck houses, the plasma screen television sets and the Manchu cabinets, all were
acquired by those who swore they were necessary to fulfil their solemn
responsibilities.

What amazes me is that anyone could have the audacity to swear this sort of
thing, let alone lawmakers. The great problem now is that the new system being
put in place is pretty much as bad as the old one.

All three main parties agree that the way forward is to support the new
Independent Parliamentary Standards Authority (IPSA). Sadly, nothing more
clearly shows that the discredited politicians who caused the expenses crisis do
not wish to solve it. IPSA's budget already exceeds by many times the cost to
the public purse it might save by an effective policing of parliamentary
expenses.

IPSA's opaque internal workings are disheartening enough, but its raison d'être
is more disheartening still. For the prime purpose of IPSA is to decide what MPs
should be paid. It boasts that it will do so without influence from MPs. And
what this means is that, by whatever mysterious criteria it chooses to employ,
IPSA will decide MPs' pay without reference to us, their employers.

If democracy is to have any meaning, it is that elected politicians have to
remain accountable to the voters before anyone else - their quango paymaster
very much included. If MPs succeed in shaking off responsibility for their own
pay to an unaccountable, undemocratic body, exactly the conditions that caused
the expenses scandal will be further entrenched.

With an eye on tightening opinion polls, David Cameron decided to launch a
personal attack on the prime minister on the matter of expenses. Cameron called
Gordon Brown a shameless defender of the old elite who was secretive,
power-hoarding and controlling.

Cameron is a puzzling and hard man to pin down. In one breath he will make
speeches calling for the power of Westminster's whips to be diluted; with the
next he instructs his MPs and candidates to use his photograph in all their
mailings and to refrain from speaking to the press without his permission. This
is not an approach that fosters independent-minded politicians.

I have a modest proposal for the three men who want to be prime minister. Brown,
Cameron and the Liberal Democrats' Nick Clegg have all gone out of their way to
say how much they admire Barack Obama. So why not behave like him? Before the
American presidential election, Obama did what every White House hopeful has
done for half a century and offered the voters a full, lifetime financial
disclosure. Why don't British party leaders do likewise? Why not, at the very
least, voluntarily tell us exactly what they claimed for on their parliamentary
expenses outside the short period that has been exposed?

I have always felt that MPs who have the talent and the inclination must be free
to work and earn outside the chamber.

No one can credibly claim that a system where MPs have the capacity to double up
as ministers is one where backbenchers are incapable of outside work. Many have
earned large sums of money outside parliament - which to me is fine - but doing
so does not seem to have dented their appetite for parliamentary allowances. Did
Michael Gove, for example, really need to supplement his earnings from The Times
with money from the public to buy a £331 Chinon armchair to enable him to be an
MP? Surely he could have used his own hard-earned money. And surely Gove, and
several of his other Conservative colleagues, could have found somewhere to buy
their goods other than a shop owned by their leader's mother-in-law.

In a few months' time the public will be confronted by hundreds of sitting MPs
who each, in effect, will be saying: I shouldn't have taken the public money;
I've paid it back; let's move on (and re-elect me!).

I hope voters take the opportunity to say something robust to such MPs or they
will carry on regardless.

Stuart Wheeler is the founder of IG Group, the spread betting firm. In 2001 he
made the largest donation in British political history, £5m, to the
Conservatives. In 2009 he was expelled from the party for donating to UKIP

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 21, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cash help to axe Speaker

SECTION: NEWS 59; 04

LENGTH: 60  words


BRITAIN'S biggest political donor Stuart Wheeler said last night he would
bankroll a campaign to unseat the Commons Speaker John Bercow - to protest
against MPs' expenses. The 71-year-old millionaire said Nigel Farage, the ex-
Ukip leader w ho will stand against the Tory in Buckingham, had only to call if
he needed cash to help overturn the 13,000-vote majority.

LOAD-DATE: February 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     February 21, 2010 Sunday 12:49 PM GMT

Britain is in crisis. If he wins, Dave will have more to worry about than
forcing 'Cameron Cuties' on the grassroots

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1003 words


Whoever walks into No 10 after the election will face a desk overflowing with
more and worse problems than any incoming Prime Minister since Winston Churchill
in 1940. Certainly Margaret Thatcher faced a trades union movement led by
insurrectionists who had already brought down Edward Heath and Jim Callaghan,
and an economy in terrible trouble - but the troubles facing the country today
are both wider and deeper than in 1979. That is not all: Margaret Thatcher had a
far stronger Parliamentary Party and a far stronger Party in the country than
David Cameron.

As for Gordon Brown, if he should survive the election, not only will he be
facing the crises largely of his own making, but he will still have the same
mutinous parliamentary rabble from which to form a government.

There is the terrifying financial crisis. January is normally a good month for
tax revenues but this year they collapsed. For the first time ever there was a
deficit, and not a small one either, of 4.3 billion.

The more the Government increases spending, borrowing and taxing, the wider
grows the gap between the rich and the poor.

Argentina, seeing our military and political weakness, is increasing the
pressure on the Falklands.

Someone - Mossad, they say - picked on us as too spineless to do more than
squeak about it, and stole the identities of half a dozen British citizens in
pursuit of a murder plot.

Immigration, like public spending, is still running out of control.

And, just to cap it all, it seems that our masters in Brussels are so confident
of their mastery that they will not let us, the British, give any preference to
ourselves in selling tickets to the Olympic Games that we are paying for here,
in what used to be our own country.

In short, if he becomes Prime Minister, David Cameron will have more to worry
about than whether he imposed enough Cameron Cuties on the demoralised remains
of the Tory grass roots supporters.

Perhaps the most corrosively poisonous inheritance facing the next Government
will be the crisis of trust between the British people and the new political
class which seems destined to dominate Parliament. That is examined in a short
book by Stuart Wheeler, entitled Crisis of Trust, published next week.

Wheeler was once a generous supporter of the Conservative Party, but was
expelled for also giving support to UKIP and has a record of putting his money
where his mouth is.I would not agree with quite all of what he says about the
remuneration of MPs, but his book is a "must read" item for anyone wanting to
put that particular shambles into its historical context. As Wheeler sets out,
this has happened before and been put right before. He also puts it into the
context of the betrayal of the very purpose of Parliament, which is to control
the executive, whether the Monarch, the Cabinet or today our masters in
Brussels.

Do not miss it!

I look through all the posts on this site, even those not really directed to me,
but it is not realistically possible to answer all of you, so please forgive me
if I do not take up all the issues raised here. At least this is a lively blog
site!

It was very kind of portuguesedave, coltek, softmicro and others to urge me to
get out the old bike and ride back into battle at the head of either the
Conservative Party or UKIP. Come on, be reasonable, chaps, I'll be 79 next month
and I was invalided out over 20 years ago. My mistake was not to have had myself
cloned about 40 years ago. So, procrustes, I'm sorry I am not up for the fight
the way I was 50 years ago.

This blog, and my roamings around the country, even a broadcast now and again
(Any Questions on R4 this Friday) are all intended to help other people put the
pressure on our leading politicians to LISTEN AND THINK (and not just about
themselves).

I understand the eloquent despair of Sheumais, but I have to say to
christopherjames that it is not just representative democracy that has let us
down, and that only in the last half century. It is the electors who have taken
less and less part in the process. Normal people have opted out of political
activity and left it to a bunch of full-time careerist geeks.

To cookinglager, I have to explain that a democratic Euro state is not a
realistic option. The history is different to that of the USA, which has one
language and one culture (although that is now at risk).

Jacquesarden is well informed. I did go to one Bilderberg meeting (on the advice
of my officials that I should know what it was all about). I was never invited
to another - which tells you something about both the Bilderbergers and me.

As johny rottenborough says, the USA did push for a US of E and financed
political propaganda to that end. They, poor fools, thought that it would be in
their interest.

As to Assegi... Oh dear, Oh dear. He quotes p. 499 of Nigel Lawson's book The
View from No 11. If he had read it properly he would have known that we did not
enter the ERM in 1985, and he would have known that whilst I was supportive at
that time of Nigel as Chancellor, saying that it should be looked at on economic
grounds, I later expressed my concerns that it would be used by the EU for
political purposes. He might also have read Margaret Thatcher's memoirs about
her opposition to the ERM right up to the point where she had lost the support
of the Cabinet, not long before the conspiracy to overthrow her - and why she
gave in to Chancellor John Major in 1990.

Thank you, spoonbender, for pointing out some of that.

I can assure Gary 4 that I am still a card-carrying member of the Conservative
Party and in the House of Lords I take the Conservative Whip, even if I do not
always take too much notice of it.

Lastly, I can assure Fifty and Cynical that there is no such thing in English
law as a "gay wedding". Marriage is a life-long union, to the exclusion of all
others, between a man and a woman. A wedding is the service or ceremony to mark
that union. There are civil partnerships and the making of those may be marked
by a party, but they are not wedding parties.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 976 words


A 6265 VACUUM, DARLING? DON'T TAKE US FOR SUCKERS

BRITAIN'S biggest political donor, Stuart Wheeler, has written a book which
ferociously denounces MPs for their expenses scandal, bewails the feebleness of
Parliament and attacks Commons Speaker John Bercow as being 'personally mired in
the crisis'.

A Crisis Of Trust will be launched next week at Mr Wheeler's penthouse flat in
Mayfair. Cocktails, champagne, full Monty buffet. Drat, I have to be at the
theatre that night.

The engagingly frank Mr Wheeler was booted out of the Conservative Party last
year after he gave 6100,000 to UKIP.

Before that he had supported the Tories through their leanest years, giving 65
million. He is the opposite of one of those greasers who only starts giving to a
political party when it is near power.

Adopting the historical phrase 'pestiferous vermin', his book rails against the
greed of recent MPs. Those given a biffing include Cabinet multi-millionaire
Shaun Woodward and Shadow Education Secretary Michael Gove, despite the latter
being a friend. 'I do know him fairly well and I think what he is saying about
education is good,' says Mr Wheeler. 'However, I felt I had to make the point.'

Of Chancellor Alistair Darling's 6265 claim for a vacuum cleaner, Mr Wheeler
writes: 'I have to admit surprise that it was possible to pay so much for a
vacuum cleaner. Was it manufactured by Bentley?'

The convivial Wheeler, who once gambled with Lord Lucan, may now attack party
political power, but he does not regret giving the Tories so much money in the
past.

'It has changed my life by bringingme closely into touch with a large number of
interesting politicians.' He expects to make another (smaller) donation to UKIP
'provided the stock market does not take another terrible knock'.

One MP he'd really like to see defeated is property flipper Bercow, whom he
accuses of 'milking the system'. It sounds as though Mr Bercow's UKIP opponent
in Buckingham, Nigel Farage, may not be short of funds before the election.

Septuagenarian Wheeler concludes: 'We do need political parties, whatever
criticisms I may make of them.

'I would, of course, be a good dictator myself, but that would, given my age,
produce a succession problem rather too soon!'

--

LAND OF POPE AND GLORY

WHEN I joined The Daily Telegraph in the Eighties, it employed an Anglican canon
as its churches correspondent. Richard Chartres (now Bishop of London) also once
filled that journalistic post. This week a Telegraph report about the Pope's
invitation to present Radio 4's Thought For The Day was written by its
'showbusiness' reporter.

Showbiz or not, who will pay for the papal visit to Britain later this year? The
minister in charge of this area of policy is Lady Kinnock.

Asked about costs the other day, the Evita Peron of the

Valleys issued a fuzzy answer saying that the visit would have 'status
equivalent to a state visit' and 'elements will be borne by public funds'.

My advice to the Romans is to get any agreement firmly in writing from

Whitehall before the General Election.

--

POVERTY -- THAT'S RICH!

FORMER Labour MP Ivor Caplin, who amazingly became a Defence Minister in the
Blair years, has not yet gone public re: 617,865.33 Commons expenses he is
judged to owe the authorities after failing to submit receipts for mortage
claims.

Mr Caplin works for a PR company called Foresight. Its clients include the
Joseph Rowntree Foundation, that soapy outfit which sees fit to lecture the
world about 'poverty, inequality and disadvantage'. PR man Caplin may not be
quite the man to preach to us about such matters.

--

WITH various rumours that Gordon Brown terrorises underlings in Downing Street,
junior minister Barbara Keeley has just coughed up the Cabinet Office's advice
to staff on stress recognition. She declares that the Brown Government is
'committed to manage and reduce workplace stress'. Does that include dodging
mobile telephones thrown by irate Scotsmen?

--

ONE of my correspondents is just back from the African islands of Sao Tome and
Principe (go to Gabon and hang a sharp right). While there he met the country's
esteemed foreign minister, Senhor Carlos Tiny.

Mr Tiny? Is that not how the rest of the world regards our own adolescent
Foreign Secretary?

--

DAVID CAMERON, interviewed on Woman's Hour and talking about marriage, praised
the concept of 'commitment'. The sly devil! All blokes fear commitment and all
women go gooey at its very mention.

--

ON THAT daffy planet inhabited by Radio 5 Live newsreaders, a bulletin the other
day referred to 'the Irish republican parliamentary group, the INLA'. Er,
paramilitary, surely?

--

MACCLESFIELD will probably still return a Conservative at the General Election,
despite this week's 'first-class travel' outburst by its retiring Tory MP Sir
Nicholas Winterton.

His successor as Tory candidate, David Rutley, could become the parliamentary
Tory party's first Mormon. Mr Rutley prefers not to make any big deal of his
faith, saying that he hopes to 'serve the people of Macclesfield regardless of
their political or religious view'. But we could certainly do with some Mormon
decency when it comes to expenses claims at the Commons. Is Mr Rutley's
reluctance to make a big thing of his faith not a happy contrast to the minority
or sectional bleating we hear about so many other firsts -- e.g. first Muslim in
the Shadow Cabinet, first female Home Secretary, etc?

--

SURELY THEY ARE TAKING THE MICK

HERE is former Speaker Michael 'Gorbals Mick' Martin, as played by actor Brian
Cox in a BBC4 drama to be shown next week.

A clip of the show suggests they have captured the purple-faced, wheedling old
billy goat quite well. But Mr Cox, a long-term Leftie, still seems to be in
denial about his fellow Scot. He claims that Speaker Martin was 'a touching
character' and 'very naive'. Someone is certainly being naive here, but I don't
think it's Mick Martin.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Liam Fox must wait for chance of £25,000 refund

BYLINE: Rosa Prince

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 340 words


LIAM FOX, the shadow defence secretary, must wait to learn whether he will lose
£25,000 in expenses following a fresh delay in hearing appeals against
repayments.

The Conservatives were embarrassed by the request for the senior Tory to refund
the money, which relates to his decision to remortgage his second home to pay
for decorating and claim the higher interest repayments.

Sir Thomas Legg, who carried out an official audit of MPs' allowances following
the expenses scandal, ruled that he should refund £24,878.27, by far the largest
amount in the shadow cabinet.

MPs have until Monday to repay the funds, but Mr Fox, who has already returned
the money, was granted a special dispensation to appeal after failing to receive
Sir Thomas's correspondence in time.

He says his claims represented value for money because he could have charged the
taxpayer for the decorating bills directly.

Sir Paul Kennedy, a former high court judge who has already ruled on more than
70 appeals, had hoped to come to a verdict on 10 more MPs who, like Mr Fox, were
given special permission to have their cases heard after the deadline.

But a spokesman for the House of Commons said he had been delayed by other work
commitments. No date had been set for the appeals to be resolved.

MPs who continue to defy demands to return cash will have the money docked from
their salaries or "golden goodbye" retirement grants. However, the spokesman
con-firmed that little could be done to force former MPs to pay up.

Ivor Caplin, a former defence minister who did not respond to letters from Sir
Thomas asking him to justify nearly £18,000 in mortgage interest claims, issued
a statement saying that he had not received the letters, and had now written to
the auditor.

It is likely that he will also be given permission to lodge an appeal with Sir
Paul.

On Monday, Stuart Wheeler, the former Conservative donor who now backs the UK
Independence Party, will publish a book in which he accuses David Cameron of
failing to punish adequately MPs caught up in the expenses scandal.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brown's fantasy is Britain's nightmare;
Simon Heffer ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 603 words


The economy's in the tank, our infrastructure is crumbling, our schools and
hospitals are basket cases: so it's time for Gordon Brown to stop trying to do
anything about it and, instead, address something called the Progressive
Governance Conference. This meeting yesterday appears to have been a gathering
of fantasists, including as it apparently did leaders from Spain and Greece,
whose job, it must be imagined, was to make Mr Brown feel good about himself.
However, with our debt scheduled to be worse than Greece's before much longer,
that reassuring sense of superiority cannot last long.

Mr Brown used his speech to this bizarre assembly to berate conservative parties
in general, and ours in particular, for not being "mainstream": and he accused
them of seeking to endanger the recovery and the welfare of middle-class
families by their policies. This is such nonsense on every level that one hardly
knows where to begin.

First, what is this recovery? Second, who has done more to grind the faces of
middle-class people in this country into the dirt than Gordon Brown? Third, who
threatens to do more to make the middle classes suffer, in the horrific event of
his remaining Prime Minister after the election, than the present incumbent of
Downing Street? Fourth, since the rest of us cannot discern a Tory economic
policy that is any different from Labour's, what exactly is he attacking? Fifth,
doesn't he realise that if the Tory party really were the robust, hard-line,
"Right-wing" force he caricatures it as, millions more people would be queuing
up to vote for it, rather than promising to abstain or to support Ukip?

With an election so close, Mr Brown has no choice but to engage in fantasy. The
reality of what he has to offer to the electorate is horrible: it would ensure
him re-election with an overall majority only in a twocornered fight against the
odious Nick Griffin, and even then I would hesitate before putting money on Mr
Brown.

Not a day passes without more evidence of his bovine incompetence. The fact that
this country needed to borrow £4.3 billion in January - the month when most
self-assessed people pay their taxes - is more horrific than many have yet
realised. It is like having a water shortage in Glasgow in January. The markets
can see it: despite the crippled state of the eurozone and the wreckage of the
American economy, sterling is heading south again against both the euro and the
dollar.

Despite 60 tame economists trying to bolster him yesterday - and how they must
all be looking forward to his dissolution honours list - Mr Brown's ideas for
trying to manage our bankrupt economy in the immediate future are as disastrous
as those that have brought us to our knees already. What is so appalling about
the Brown terror is that the fantasies aren't just about the future, but about
the past. We must hope the British people dispel these not merely vigorously,
but with a measure of well-merited brutality.

Today Mr Brown will unveil his party's election slogan. Its "themes" for the
campaign include "Ensuring the recovery", "Protecting front line services",
"Standing up for the many" and "Protecting future jobs and new industries". I
fear that he will not embrace a much-needed spirit of truthfulness and go for
"Finishing off Britain", "Lying for Labour", "Soaking the many" and "Protecting
my job". Judging by the rubbish that he now routinely spouts - whether lies or
delusion I do not know - he should be forced to produce a certificate proving
his sound state of mental health before being allowed to stand for election: as
should anyone who intends to vote for him.

LOAD-DATE: February 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gordon Brown: he shouldn't have a prayer

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 19, 2010 Friday

Question Time for Leeds politicians

BYLINE: John Baronguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 440 words


May's general election - and the future of MPs - was on the agenda when Leeds
residents put politicians under the spotlight.

Organised by  magazine, the 'Election Question Time Special' saw more than 50
people give political figures a two-hour grilling at the City Inn in Leeds.

Former Tory Shadow Home Secretary , Leeds North West MP , Labour PPC for Leeds
West  and UKIP MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire  were all on the panel
and were part of a lively and sometimes humorous debate last night.

MP's pay, the expenses scandal, trust and public intipathy towards MP and
politics were the subject of a number of questions and proved the main thrust of
the evening.

"We should abolish the party system," said Bloom. "If you stuck a blue or red
flag on a dog turd party supporters would vote for it - but if people saw
someone stand up and say 'vote for me, I believe in this this and this' I think
you'd have a better and more trusted system. It's how it was hundreds of years
ago when parliament first started."

Reeves said she was standing in Leeds West on both local and national issues and
added that it was important that the findings of the Kelly Inquiry were
implemented.

"I hope the influx of new MPs at the next election will act with greater
integrity, but there is a mountain to climb," she added. "(Current Leeds West
MP)  has had a clean bill of health for 23 years with regards expenses and
scandals, people need to realise we're in politics for the right reasons."

Mulholland said the government didn't deal with the expenses scandal quickly
enough and that a new voting system was needed to end problems of 'rotten
boroughs' where politicians were so safe they didn't have to do much work to by
re-elected.

"We also still have annunelected House of Lords where you've got people sitting
there because of who their dad was," he added.

Davis said that parliament needed to get to grips with itself and said that
things would get better.

But he added: "We cannot kid ourselves about the situation we're in, but MPs
have always been vilified over the centuries. Look at the cartoons in the 19th
century, they were unbelievably scathing."

A number of other issues, including a debate on climate change sceptics, should
the UK go into the Euro and immigration were all meaty topics raised by the
audience.

Both Leeds representatives gave a good account of themselves. The relatively
inexperienced Reeves will have learnt from her tussles with old-timers Davis and
Bloom, and Mulholland showed he can hold his own.

The question time event next moves to London.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 18, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NOW MIGRANT GET A 'VIP CLUB'

BYLINE: By Peter Allen in Calais and Padraic Flanagan in London

SECTION: NEWS 788; 01

LENGTH: 732  words


Fun and games as they wait to get into Britain

UK-BOUND migrants were yesterday massing in their own comfy members-only club in
Calais before making their bid for Britain, the Daily Express can reveal.

French charities have helped to create a virtual "departure lounge" for illegal
immigrants heading across the Channel, offering them rest and recreation before
they complete the final leg of their journeys.

Our investigators gained access to the illegal "Sangatte II" centre and
exclusive photographs show it bears a closer resemblance to a holiday camp than
a shelter for the homeless.

One observer said: "They are being treated like VIPs."

The converted warehouse, just a short walk from the town's port, offers migrants
a range of amenities, from relaxation rooms with a piano, a cinema and sports
hall for indoor games like table tennis and football to even a makeshift disco
for dancing.

The centre - which bears a huge "Welcome To All" banner - was officially closed
down 12 days ago by riot police after Calais authorities deemed it unfit for
public use.

And last night the CRS riot squads returned - forcing the migrants and activists
out using batons and shields. But it is expected they will just move back in.

The charities SOS and the No Borders Network got round prohibition by opening it
as a private space for members, declaring: "All migrants and activists inside
the hangar have official membership."

The organisers have also painted the text from Article 1 of the UN Universal
Declaration of Human Rights on a sign warning that any attempt to close it down
could face a challenge in the courts.

Politicians and campaigners were furious at the latest failure by the French to
tackle the problem of illegal migrants using Calais as a jumping off point for
Britain.

Lord Pearson, UKIP leader, said:

"This is a classic case of European Human Rights legislation being used in a way
that goes contrary to common sense justice.

"No migrant moves to Calais for the beaches, they are there purely and simply to
enter the UK, in most cases illegally. The half-cock approach of the French
authorities will merely result in ever-increasing numbers of people suffering
awful conditions, and these charities, while attempting to make things better
for some, merely encourage more problems for many."

Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This is a transparent
attempt to establish yet another base for people who want to sneak into Britain
illegally.

"The French authorities should deal with this issue properly."

Express investigators yesterday mingled with around 50 young men who had taken
up residence at the converted warehouse, called by the charities the Kronstad
Hangar after the road it is on. French officials had ordered it closed earlier
this month, fearing it would turn into another Sangatte - the former Red Cross
centre which was a magnet for migrants before being demolished in 2002.

But after the mass eviction earlier this month, all of the migrants inside were
set free, with no attempt to arrest them or return them to the country from
where they had entered France, in line with EU guidelines.

Instead metal barriers were used to guard the hangar. Yesterday they were simply
cast aside, as charity volunteers and left-wing activists moved back inside the
building.

"We're here because we need a roof over our heads, " said one, an Afghan called
Mansoor. "Our aim is to get to England, but we need warmth and a place to sleep
while we are in France."

The hangar had been rented by SOS, a local refugee and homeless charity,
supported by the No Border Network, a militant group campaigning for frontier
controls between France and Britain to be scrapped.

It is available to all those playing cat-and-mouse with the police as they try
to board ferries and trains to England.

A spokesman for Calais Migrant Solidarity, which No Border activists have formed
when taking part in action at the French port, said the hangar is open for
migrants from 10am to 6pm.

"The mayor of Calais ordered the eviction of the hangar on the grounds that it
was not fit for public use, so the Kronstad Hangar is now open as a private
space for members o SOS, " he said. "All migrants and activists inside the
hangar have official membership.

"The hangar is not just a humanitarian space but also a space for political
discussion and debate, as well as various cultural and entertainment exchanges."

LOAD-DATE: February 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: It's disco time for one member of the club
Can't dance? There's always table tennis Cinema's popular even though backcloth
is a sheet. Centre: Club banner
Migrant relaxes in the warm club as he waits to sneak a ride to England

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                          February 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Can anyone explain. what the Conservative Party stands for?;
Lacking clarity and direction, the Tories risk a haemorrhage of support to
fringe parties, says Simon Heffer

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1203 words


To judge from the Prime Minister's performance on television the other evening,
which reminded us that the best thing to do with private grief is to see it
stays private, the coming election will have little to do with policy. Labour's
priority is not to spell out what it stands for, or, more to the point, how it
would extricate Britain from the mess it is in (and which Mr Brown, in large
part, has made). It is to "humanise" the Prime Minister. I pine for the days
when prime ministers did not need to verify their membership of the species, but
got on with the difficult business of governing. Everything else is a
distraction.

Yet it is a distraction in which the Conservative Party seems determined to
share. Think of what we have learnt about the government-in-waiting in recent
days. Its health spokesman has had secret talks (so secret, apparently, that
even Mr Cameron did not know, according to reliable sources) about how to fund
care for the elderly. This, as this newspaper argued yesterday, is a vital
subject. As we also argued, infantilism, such as shown by all parties to the
discussion, will advance it nowhere.

The shadow chancellor, now plumbing new depths of desperation, claims that a
statement by leading economists about the need for urgent big spending cuts and
the avoidance of tax rises endorses his own party's policy. Since the latest
version of that policy supported a delay in big (or "swingeing") cuts and said
nothing about reversing damagingly high tax rates that are driving big-earning
companies abroad, it is hard to see how Mr Osborne could think that. Perhaps he
has had secret talks with himself, and forgot to inform Mr Cameron, who
announced the aforementioned policy.

We hear of constituency activists' anger that safe seats are given shortlists
comprising ethnic minorities, women and homosexual men, as happened in a Surrey
constituency last weekend. We hear of candidates angry that their ancient right
to put what they like in their election addresses is now being trammelled by
Central Office. (These last two points reflect interestingly on a party that
claims to be about the devolution of powers to the lowest level.) We hear that
the BBC is making a programme (it is presumed disobliging) about Lord Ashcroft,
who more or less owns the party but refuses to say where he pays his taxes.

Best of all, for those of us for whom politics must be treated as light
entertainment if we are not to risk our sanity, we hear much of a catfight in
the North Kensington constituency. The chairman (a woman) fell out with the
candidate (ditto) and the fight had to be refereed by Mr Cameron himself, who
happened to have been at school with the candidate's husband. This is like a
cocktail party, not a political one.

This spasm of irrelevant behaviour, conducted apparently oblivious of the fact
that Britain is struggling to avoid going back into recession, our soldiers are
dying in an offensive in Afghanistan, and our European partners are facing
economic meltdown, is not confined to the Conservatives. Labour's main concern
is that middle-aged people are too fat. It is also spending (or rather wasting)
oodles of our money on an expensive advertising campaign suggesting that anyone
ordering a third pint of beer had better book an undertaker to go with it. Some
people still ask: why is the public so disengaged from politics? Well, if you
seek politics' monument, look around you.

I start to wonder whether we are destined to see an eruption here such as
manifested by the Tea Party movement in America. For those unfamiliar with this
phenomenon, allow me to explain.

The Tea Party movement has become a loose federation of local gatherings of
people fed up with the American political class. They hate Democrats and they
feel little better about Republicans. Their slogan is that they want to "take
America back" from such people. Mr Obama they regard as a socialist. Some
subscribe to the conspiracy theory that he was not in fact born in Hawaii, or
indeed in America at all, and therefore holds his office illegally. Some of
their other views are closer to sanity. They believe the American political
class has sanctioned indecently high spending, indecently high taxes and
insanely high debt. They want all this to stop.

Their movement has snowballed: it held its first national rally last month, and
Sarah Palin gave the keynote speech. She is playing a cunning game. If she runs
for the presidency in 2012 (as she is now hinting she will) she will need the
support of a vast caucus of Republicans, many of whom are attracted by the Tea
Party and minded not to support the Republican Party as they currently know it.
This would be fatal to the ambitions of any candidate who could not get those
people back in the tent: hence Mrs Palin's appearance at their rally. It will
not be the last.

We have no Tea Party here, but we do have a number of respectable (and, in the
shape of the BNP, non-respectable) fringe parties who will hoover up votes from
the main ones. The BNP believes it can win a Labour seat or two, and it may be
right. The Tories are also finding it desperately hard to gain footholds in big
urban areas outside London, with their potential working-class supporters now in
some cases edging towards the BNP. Yet the greatest threat to the Tories is Ukip
, which has been busy capitalising on Mr Cameron's embarrassing emasculation
over the Lisbon Treaty. Leaving aside what Nigel Farage may do to Speaker Bercow
in Buckingham, Ukip is less likely to win a seat than the BNP is, but the damage
it can do to Tory interests, notably in the West Country, where the agricultural
and fishing interests have had enough of Brussels, is potentially huge.

The problem for the Tories is this, succinctly put to me by a close observer of
the party the other day: if you boarded a bus anywhere in these islands, sat
down next to a passenger at random and asked what it stood for, he or she could
not tell you. The Tories' propagandists like to foster the belief that there is
a secret agenda of radicalism waiting to be unleashed when and if the party
seizes power by pretending to be like Labour. However, there simply isn't.
Oppositions cannot afford to behave like this.

Mr Cameron's ruthless centralisation apes Tony Blair's party management from the
era just before the 1997 election. In that, there are two further difficulties.
First, his MPs and candidates tend to have minds of their own, which was less
the case for Mr Blair then. Second, those tactics are, well, very Nineties.
People are wise to PR spivvery, feel patronised by it and don't like it. As
someone once said, it is not enough.

There is a group of Right-ofcentre MPs who, like Mr Blair's Leftists before
1997, are struggling to keep the lid on their discontent. Mr Blair kept control
because he was always going to win. However, the word on the back benches is
that if the lead were to shrink, say to 7 per cent or below, factionalism and
possibly even panic would break out. Even if Mr Cameron doesn't see how
disenchanted the public is by its lack of choice and his lack of definition,
many of his MPs do. The ride is about to get rocky.

Comment on Simon Heffer's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Griffin defends BNP over assault on Times reporter

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 750 words


Nick Griffin has defended the violent ejection of a Times journalist from the
British National Party's extraordinary general meeting on Sunday, insisting that
it would not go "soft" on political correctness.

The BNP chairman told members: "Millions of viewers ... will have seen the
report of us ejecting a lying Times journalist from the press conference. That's
not the actions of a snivelling PC party, but of an organisation that has had
enough of being lied about."

Richard Barnbrook, the BNP's London Assembly member, had objected to an article
in The Times on Saturday, which reported that he had been spat at in his local
area and that some of his black and Asian neighbours were worried about visitors
to his home. The Times reporter - Dominic Kennedy - was photographed being
manhandled out of the meeting by BNP security guards on Sunday, one of whom
grabbed the journalist's nose.

Yesterday the Labour Party described the BNP's actions as a "Nazi stormtrooper
attack" and "fascist behaviour".

The incident raises questions over whether the BNP has set itself back in its
attempts to re-create its political image.

While Mr Griffin once called for a defence of white rights with "welldirected
boots and fists", the party began changing course in 1998. He told the BNP: "We
must at all times present [the public] with an image of reasonableness." But
Denis Mac-Shane, the Labour MP, former minister and ex-president of the National
Union of Journalists, said the attack showed the party's contempt for freedom of
expression.

"Their Nazi stormtrooper attack on the journalist in front of Richard Barnbrook,
their so-called law and order spokesman, shows the true anti-democratic face of
the BNP," he said. "The excuse that the physical violence against the journalist
was simply an attack on political correctness is a cynicism too far."

Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "The BNP's
commitment to democratic values such as freedom of speech and expression was
always skin-deep, and this episode shows that their attempted makeover is
entirely phoney."

Eric Pickles, the Conservative Party chairman, said: "The values and views of
the BNP are abhorrent. The BNP remain an extreme racist nationalist party, which
wants to divide our country over the issues of race and colour."

David Campbell Bannerman, deputy leader of UKIP and head of policy for the
party: "The press has a vital role to expose the truth."

BNP members agreed on Sunday to remove the part of its constitution that had
restricted its membership to "indigenous Britons" - essentially those with an
Anglo-Saxon background. Mr Griffin was given extra powers to make further
changes as needed to comply with race laws.

The changes must still be considered by the Equality and Human Rights Commission
and will then be the subject of a further court hearing.

The commission has already expressed concern that the BNP's principles are
"indirectly discriminatory" because they required members to pledge to oppose
integration if it might affect the unity or maintenance of the "indigenous
British".

It was unclear last night whether amendments to the principles were made on
Sunday.

Mr Griffin is understood to have made amendments to the constitution shortly
before Sunday's meeting, which raises questions whether the vote is valid.
Members must be given 14 days' written notice before they vote on changes.

Yesterday a Sikh explained why he wanted to be the first non-white member of the
BNP. Rajinder Singh, 78, said he would not approach the BNP for membership but
would join if it was offered. Speaking to The Times, he said: "I can't say no.
It is like dinner - if they invite me to dinner I will go.

"It is the very basic nature in human beings to be racist. A child is born with
discrimination."

He supported the BNP because of concern about the encroachment of Islam in
Britain. "Fundamentalism is part of Islam," he said.

Electoral standing

Membership: In October 2009 Simon Darby, a BNP spokesman, claimed 14,000
members. Data leaked in November 2008 showed 12,802 names on file in 2007, but
not the number of members

2005 general election: BNP won 0.7 per cent of the popular vote, but not a
Commons seat

2008 London mayoral election: BNP came fifth with 5.2 per cent of the vote.
Richard Barnbrook got one of the 25 Assembly seats

June 2009 Euro elections: Nick Griffin, below, and Andrew Brons elected MEPs

Local councils: BNP holds several metropolitan borough and county seats in
Leicestershire and Lancashire

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The moment when Dominic Kennedy, of The Times, was forcibly ejected
PAUL HACKETT FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            February 14, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Labour chief's costly foreign trips revealed

SECTION: NEWS 242; 21

LENGTH: 248  words


EUROPE'S first Foreign Minister, Cathy Ashton, clearly has a taste for travel,
writes Kirsty Buchanan.

Figures show that as Trade Commissioner, Baroness Ashton flew to 14 non-European
countries in a year, at an average cost per trip of 13,864 euros.

That was the fourth highest out of Europe's 27 commissioners, behind the
President Jose Manuel Barroso and former External Relations Commissioner Benita
Ferrero-Waldner.

The figure is more than three times the amount clocked up by fellow
commissioner, Ireland's Charlie McCreevy, whose Internal Markets brief is
similar to the trade role. He went on only four trade trips outside the European
Union at an average cost of 3,863 euros.

International trade spokesman for the UK Independence Party, William, Earl of
Dartmouth MEP, said: "Baroness Ashton has to travel to work, fine, but costing
three times as much as similar Eurocrats just to bimble round the world pushing
German exports doesn't seem good value for money."

Labour peer Ms Ashton, who took over the Trade Commissioner role from Peter
Mandelson, was promoted to become the first High Representative for Foreign
Affairs in the wake of the Lisbon Treaty ratification last year.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown heralded the promotion as a victory for Britain.

However critics claimed it was part of a French ploy to ensure that "their man"
Michel Barnier was appointed Internal Markets Commissioner, as Paris was keen to
get some control over Britain's economic powerhouse in the Square Mile.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TRAVEL: Cathy Ashton

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           February 13, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Turning a blind eye on campaign trail as BNP targets a prize seat;
The leader's decision to stand in Barking has brought racial politics closer to
the surface, report Tom Baldwin and Fiona Hamilton

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin; Fiona Hamilton

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 38,39

LENGTH: 1065 words


British National Party activists are gathered outside the Underground station,
smirking and smoking. A black man spits, twice, at their feet. "Yeah, I know who
you are," he says accusingly.

Does that happen a lot? "What's that?" asks Richard Barnbrook, a big wheel in
the party and an elected member of the Greater London Authority. That man just
spat at you. "No! Deliberately?" Yes.

"I didn't notice," he mumbles, with a little shake of his head. "We actually get
a very positive reaction from many older ethnic minority people here."

Such a claim can soon be tested. Mr Barnbrook parades along the streets in his
"trademark" beige suit which, he thinks, "adds to my charisma - everybody knows
who I am". An Asian woman shudders and moves off the pavement when she sees him
approaching. A black father grabs his toddler's hand and guides her to the other
side of the road. A group of teenagers ride by on bikes, yelling obscenities.
"Maybe I get a few funny looks, every now and then," Mr Barnbrook concedes
cheerfully.

Welcome to Barking, a suburban town that the BNP wants to make its own, where
truth - as well as whole sections of the local population -can be just
inconvenient obstacles to be sidestepped or swept away.

The decision by Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, to stand as a parliamentary
candidate in Barking has inevitably brought the poison of racial politics ever
closer to the surface of an already pockmarked eastern outpost of London.

At the general election in 2005, Mr Barnbrook was only 27 votes away from
claiming second place ahead of the Tories. In the following year the BNP grabbed
nine of the 30 borough councillor posts in the wards that make up the seat. The
party secured an average 41 per cent of the vote in seven contested wards,
compared with 33 per cent for Labour.

This is why Mr Griffin abandoned the North West, where he was elected as an MEP
last year, and elbowed Mr Barnbrook aside for the chance to stand in Barking. It
is where the BNP believes that white working-class alienation can be best
exploited to gain a first crucial foothold in Westminster.

Margaret Hodge, the Labour MP for almost 16 years and veteran of many battles in
a political career stretching over four decades, recognises that she is in the
fight of her life. "We face a real threat from the BNP," she says. "Griffin is
here because he thinks he can win."

She has, in the past, been criticised for relying too heavily on the black and
Asian vote. There have been complaints that she has amplified "BNP propaganda"
with efforts to address white voters' sense of unfairness. Last week she called
for immigrants to earn the right to benefits or council housing over several
years so that "local people" have higher priority.

Ms Hodge's campaign has not been helped by an often dysfunctional relationship
with Jon Cruddas, the MP for neighbouring Dagenham, who argues that Labour's
appeal should be around shared economic interests, not racial identity. But she
has been more visible lately than before, opening a campaign office after the
council elections and doubling party membership locally to about 400. Although a
number of the party's older councillors have been purged and are threatening to
run as independents, Ms Hodge says Labour has been revitalised. "I'm so proud.
We have all had to raise our game."

Differences within Labour have been put aside because they are far outweighed by
the need to "lance the boil" of the BNP. "I am really fearful that if they get a
hold here, Barking would become a no-go area for the rest of Britain," Ms Hodge
says. "They bring division and violence."

There has been talk of Conservative and Liberal Democrat candidates pulling out
of the election to present a united front against racism. The consensus among
them, however, appears to be that this would merely reinforce Mr Griffin's
claims that the Establishment is ganging up on him.

A greater concern for Labour is the candidacy of the Rev George Hargreaves,
leader of the Christian Party, who has strong links to the big Pentecostalist
churches proliferating in the area and who may shave away significant numbers of
black voters from Labour. "I would much rather he was not standing," Ms Hodge
says.

Barking's menagerie of candidates will also include Frank Maloney, the former
boxing promoter, who is standing for the UK Independence Party. He launched his
campaign by challenging Mr Griffin to a fist fight and with a poster that spelt
Britain as Britian.

The BNP enjoys pointing out that error, but should not laugh too loud. Mr
Griffin launched his own campaign for Barking last year in Dagenham, having got
confused about the constituency boundaries.

There is much to ridicule about a party that has only recently started wearing
suits in an effort to be taken seriously. Council meetings here have descended
into farce on occasion. Some BNP councillors - the official opposition - have
fallen out among themselves, walked out or been thrown out for misconduct.

On the doorstep Mr Barnbrook mixes talk about wheelie bins with a promise to put
immigrant families in tower blocks because, he alleges, they got homes in a
Labour plot to flood the constituency with non-whites. Has he got any evidence?
"Yes, through our freedom of information requests. But I can't disclose it at
this time because of data protection laws."

Outside his house, easily recognisable by the St George and Union flags, Mr
Barnbrook insists-a little unconvincingly-that he is not bitter about Mr Griffin
taking over as parliamentary candidate.

"Only Nick has got an ego big enough to deal with sitting alone in the Commons,"
he says. "And, anyway, to control the council would be far more prestigious. I'm
better with people, I have more charisma." So how does he get on with his
neighbours? "Great," he replies. "We have black and Muslim families living here.
I get on with everybody."

A few inquiries at homes nearby suggests that this is not quite true. One black
man says that he feels uneasy leaving his young family on their own because "a
lot of people come to that house, I don't like the way they look at my
children". A few doors down, a woman says: "I'm scared of them. Please don't
print my name."

Mr Barnbrook may try to be nice.

He clearly believes in the powers of all that charisma and his special suit. The
BNP is ridiculous - even pathetic. But when fomenting such fear and loathing, it
is not funny.

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Griffin will stand against MP Margaret Hodge in "fight of her
life"
The BNP's Richard Barnbrook, an elected member of the Greater London Authority,
in Barking. The party's leader, Nick Griffin, has high hopes of winning the
constituency in the election
MATT LLOYD / THE TIMES & CANON YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER OF THE YEAR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 12, 2010 Friday 3:26 PM GMT

The quiet success of sixth form colleges

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 257 words


Sixth-formers are a dream audience. Not because they're especially appreciative
or polite or attentive - as a rule, they're not - but because they haven't
already made up their minds. Ask an MP from any party what the best part of his
job is and I guarantee that he will put debating in schools close to the top of
his list. I try to speak in a school in my constituency at least every three
weeks; and when I do, I almost always come across the spoor of my likeable UKIP
rival, Nigel Farage, who evidently spends every free moment radicalising the
young people of the Home Counties.

Not that they need much radicalising. Contrary to what we sometimes read,
teenagers are intensely interested in politics; it's party politics that leaves
them cold. In general, sixth-formers are anti-Establishment, eco-conscious,
Left-of-Centre, Euro-sceptic, localist and idealistic. They almost always
respond warmly to the doctrines of direct democracy.

This morning, I spoke to some very bright students at a sixth-form college in
Sussex. They were more informed and exigent than their contemporaries at several
of the independent schools I have addressed, and many expected to go on to
Oxford or Cambridge. Not for the first time, it struck me that sixth-form
colleges are the secret triumph of the state sector.

What is the basis of their success? Is it that their students make a conscious
choice to attend them? Is it that, unusually within the maintained sector, they
retain an element of selection? Or is it something else? The comment thread is
yours.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           February 11, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FORUM - LETTERS & EMAILS;
LETTERS & EMAILS

SECTION: LW 101; 40

LENGTH: 89 words


IF anything proves MPs "do not get it", it is that the trio charged with
expenses fraud are trying to wriggle out of facing justice.

MPs have not been held in such low esteem in living memory, which is very
unfortunate for those who have not been living the high life at our expense.

It is the bad apple that spoils the barrel but this particular barrel has more
than one rotting fruit.

For Elliot Morley, David Chaytor and Jim Devine to try to use an ancient law to
avoid prosecution is beyond the pale.

PAUL NUTTALL, UKIP North West MEP.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NO BURKHA BAN SAYS JACK STRAW

SECTION: NEWS 113; 04

LENGTH: 112  words


BANNING women from wearing burkhas in British streets would be a waste of police
time, Jack Straw said yesterday.

Despite his own concerns about the veil, the Justice Secretary told MPs he would
"strongly recommend against a change in the law".

His comments were yesterday condemned by UK Independence Party MEP Gerard
Batten. He insisted the same rules should apply to burkhas as crash helmets and
balaclavas, which must be removed in buildings such as banks and airports.

A week ago Tory MP Philip Hollobone said he had "huge sympathy" with people who
backed a ban on the controversial veils.

In 2006 Mr Straw suggested women who wore veils made community relations
difficult.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          February 10, 2010 Wednesday

David Cameron's 'questions-for-Cash' problem

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 994 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White:

FULL TEXT

David Cameron has a little local difficulty today, one of several, over a Tory
candidate called Joanna Cash, who has fallen out with party big-wigs in
Westminster North, where she is supposed to be set to take a redrawn seat from
Labour's Karen Buck.

At one level it's no big deal. All political parties have this sort of problem
for one reason or another, problems which require party HQ to step in and sort
things out - or put its big foot into them and make it all worse.

Did not a Labour bust-up with George Galloway lead to him fighting and winning
Bethnal Green and Bow for Respect, that odd combination of Trots and Islamists?
Did not a row in the Castle Point constituency lead Bob Spink to defect from
Cameron to Ukip?

You can read  and, of course, the  is pretty lively on the subject too.

Basically, Cash was a fast-tracked Cameroon favourite, Oxford educated "Tory
totty" (not my phrase, Mr Editor, I would not dream of calling her blonde
either); married to a moderately well-connected Etonian businessman; living in
Notting Hill, Michael Gove spoke at their wedding .... The local association
(where posh and gentrified areas mingle with much rougher ones) is stuffed with
party high-flyers. You get the picture.

However, Cash is also 40. Last November the candidate fell pregnant. At the risk
of sounding deplorably unfeminist, that changes everything doesn't it,
especially at 40? But being a modern woman she thought she might just have it
all. "Happy news I have been bursting to tell you..."

Alas, not entirely happy. Cash fell foul of Amanda Sawyers, the constituency
chairman and another Alpha female. A barrister married to a banker, they live in
what the Mail says is a £10m house, though we should never trust the figures
newspapers attach to property or fortunes.

Cash apparently enlisted friends at party HQ to help topple Sawyers, but Lord
Tom Strathclyde, shadow leader of the Lords - and a local resident (natch) -
sided with Sawyers and stepped aside so she could take his place as local party
president.

Cash resigned in what I would not dream of suggesting was an emotional moment,
let alone a hissy fit, but was later persuaded to un-resign. She did so via
Twitter. "Go, go, go people, we have work to do." To some local activists -
rarely generous to women, pregnant or not - her impetuous conduct alone would
have debarred Cash.

Alas, as with the "Turnip Taliban" affair in SW Norfolk, a great deal of such
current intrigue takes place not merely in the pages of newspapers but on the
blogosphere and Twitter. Foolish things are said which cannot easily be unsaid.

That's one conspicuous aspect of the affair and the wider way politics now
works. It is simultaneously run by closed cabals - Gordon Brown's as well as
Cameron's - while giving the appearance of being open and transparent.

Everyone can express a view and get cross. It reflects the "wisdom of crowds,"
but also the pig-headed ignorance or startling naivety of crowds too. In our
quieter moments, we know that, yes?

Where will this all lead when Cameron forms the government most of us expect him
to do on 7 May provided he doesn't have too many more upsets of the kind he's
been involved in lately? Good question.

Clever Danny Finkelstein, the Times pundit who defected noisily from the SDP to
the Tories in the Major era but lost a seat he should have won, has , one which
is relevant nonetheless.

Danny points out that, even more than Brown, Cameron is simultaneously committed
to several contradictory policies - though he does the Tory leader the courtesy
of saying that he knows it.

One is to strong centralised party leadership ie his own. Another is to
strengthening parliament, its powers and personnel, its control over the agenda.
The third is to the devolution of power away from the central state to local
communities and institutions, the council, the local NHS, to voluntary bodies
and neighbourhoods.

It's what voters say they want. But voters also want an end to the postcode
lottery which delivers better services in one part of Britain than in the
adjoining part. Tricky eh? Cabinet ministers wrestle with these contradictions
too.

Finkelstein says Britain should opt for a presidential system and a separation
of powers on US lines which shows that even clever people can be stupid on
occasion. There again, he may have had to end the piece quickly or risk missing
his bus.

So what we will call the questions-for-cash controversy simply highlights the
tension between theoretically admirable localism (which we all applaud) and the
Blair-ish desire to control from the centre which has mixed results.

Remember how No 10 tried to block Ken Livingstone as London mayor? And to block
Rhodri Morgan's path to become Welsh first minister? Likeable Rhodri stepped
down a few weeks ago after almost a decade in power - with what I think was a
70% approval rating. He was undynamic, of course. But Ken turned out to be a
good mayor - as Boris's ineptitude is currently proving.

Cash represents the Cameroon wish to have clever people, including lots of
women, ethnic minorities, several working class people and, if possible, a few
disabled MPs in parliament. Good for him, but in the hasty top-down process he
will pick up a number of plonkers.

Unlike locally-chosen plonkers (and why should plonker voters not have a few
MPs?) they will be his fault, as will Boris. That's the point of decentralising
power and decision-making to the people who have to live with the consequences.
It makes it harder for them to blame you - as they itch to do.

Cash was on the panel at the Guardian's annual debate that I chair at the Tory
conference. She seemed nice and clever, though I did not feel I was in the
presence of a future chancellor. Mind you, I don't think I'd have said that
about young Margaret Thatcher either.

LOAD-DATE: February 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Uproar as French MP backs 'brave' migrants

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: COLUMNS 457; 15

LENGTH: 443  words


A VETERAN French politician sparked fury yesterday by calling for humanitarian
aid for thousands of "courageous" illegal migrants bound for Britain.

Former culture minister Jack Lang complained about the plight of thousands of
"starving" migrants who had "bravely" trekked across Europe to get to the UK
from Calais.

The comments by the Socialist MP, the most senior politician in the area, are
certain to infuriate campaigners who want Britain's borders to be made
watertight.

"They are human beings and they are starving, " said Mr Lang, an MP for the
Pas-de-Calais area, as well as a special adviser to President Nicolas Sarkozy.

He spoke out after around 100 British-bound immigrants were ejected from a
controversial new hostel in the town, dubbed Sangatte II.

Scores of anti-riot police removed them from a disused warehouse on a street
called England Square after they barricaded themselves in on Saturday. The
hangar had been rented by charities SOS and No Borders in defiance of a ban on
giving shelter to illegal immigrants in the town.

After the migrants were ejected on Sunday, all were allowed to disperse to make
fresh attempts to reach Britain. Now Mr Lang, 70, has demanded they and the
1,000-plus migrants sleeping rough in Calais are given urgent humanitarian aid.

He said: "I am opposed to building another Sangatte, but I am in favour of a
plan of humanitarian action.

"In most cases, the migrants are young people, often with good qualifications,
and courageous for what they have endured to get to Calais. Why don't we offer
job training opportunities for all that wish to remain in France?"

But Tory immigration spokesman Damian Green said that would only encourage more
migrants. "Mr Lang cannot want a continuing flood of refugees into Calais, " he
said.

"They come for one purpose only, to get across to Britain, and I am pleased at
the action of the Calais authorities to clear the latest attempt at a camp.
Encouraging people to pay thousands of pounds to traffickers to smuggle them
across the world is not a humanitarian act."

Mr Green called for British No Borders volunteers to be deterred from crossing
the Channel.

A spokesman for No Borders London said a "small number" of members had helped
set up the centre in Calais.

UKIP MEP Gerard Batten said: "France is complicit in encouraging illegal
immigrants in their wish to come to the UK.

Providing extra services in Calais would make a bad situation worse rather than
better."

A makeshift camp known as "the jungle" was closed in Calais last September. Tens
of thousands of migrants passed through the original Red Cross centre at
Sangatte on their way to Britain before it was closed in 2002.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Calais MP Lang sparked anger

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Cameron: I'll give power to the petition;
100,000 signatures would guarantee Commons debate under Tory government

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 621 words


CAMPAIGNERS WHO want to reintroduce hanging, oppose higher taxes for motorists,
pull out of the EU, or any of the other causes overlooked by politicians have
been promised by David Cameron that they can have their day in Parliament.

Under a Conservative government, 100,000 signatures on a petition will be enough
to guarantee a debate in the Commons. A million signatures will give the
organisers the right to put legislation in front of the house, which MPs will
have to vote on. One of the first groups to seize on Mr Cameron's offer was the
UK Independence Party, which claimed it would have "no trouble" collecting a
million signatures to try to pull Britain out of the EU.

Mr Cameron, speaking yesterday at East London University on how to rebuild trust
in politics, argued that as well as cleaning up Parliament, politicians have to
find ways to engage people more in the political process.

He added: "It's absurd that a tiny percentage of the population craft
legislation that will apply to 100 per cent of the population. Instead of
locking people out of this process, we need to invite them in."

This opens the near-certain prospect that if the Tories win the election, MPs
will have to debate a Bill on whether to pull out of the EU. Nigel Farage, the
former Ukip leader, said: "We welcome this proposal, and if he stands by this,
and a million signatures is what is required, we'll get the financial backing to
organise a petition - no trouble."

MPs are also likely to find themselves having to debate whether to bring back
hanging, which has not been formally debated in Parliament since May 1998, when
the Commons voted to accept a clause in the European Convention on Human Rights
outlawing capital punishment except in times of emergency.

There was an indication of how easily a campaign to bring back hanging could
pick up the necessary 100,000 signatures in February 2008, when The Sun invited
readers to vote in a poll: 99 per cent of the 95,000 respondents were in favour.
Since Downing Street introduced a facility to create online petitions under Tony
Blair, there have been seven that have attracted over 100,000 signatures, one of
which - a petition against the Government's proposal to consider bringing in
road pricing - attracted 1.8 million in three months.

The Tories said they would stop multiple signatories from the same computer, but
it was unclear how the ubiquitous "M. Mouse" and "Hugh Organ" could be barred.

* Joanne Cash, the Conservative candidate for the Westminster North seat at the
election, has resigned from her post amid reports of "internal tensions" in the
local party. Ms Cash resigned last night at a special meeting in her
constituency. The seat, which has a projected Labour majority of 3,021, is the
Tories' number 75 target. A Tory spokesman confirmed the resignation but added
that it would evaluate the decision today.

Signing up

Popular causes

Downing Street e-petitions have turned into a rough guide to the sort of causes
that have support in the tens and hundreds of thousands. They were introduced
halfway through Tony Blair's premiership, but only really took off after
campaigners used this device to organise opposition to a government proposal to
tax motorists by the mile.

The most popular Downing Street petitions, and the number of signatures they
attracted, are:

* No to road pricing: 1,811,424

* Create a Remembrance Day bank holiday in November: 531,400

* Allow the Red Arrows to fly at the 2012 Olympics: 502,625

* Reduce fuel duty: 304,641

* Ban the construction of a "mega mosque": 281,882

* Scrap inheritance tax: 128,622

* Create a dedicated military and veterans hospital: 113,979

* Don't scrap childcare vouchers: 93,626

* Make Jeremy Clarkson (left) prime minister: 49,457

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            February 9, 2010 Tuesday

Feature - Picking up the pieces of our broken system;
The left needs to present a vision of the future, argues Steve Freeman

LENGTH: 852 words


Who elected Peter Mandelson to Parliament? He is Secretary of State for
Business, Innovation and Skills, President of the Board of Trade and Lord
President of the Council.

He has considerable political power. He can decide the terms of the Kraft
takeover and the fate of Cadbury workers. Yet nobody has elected him. Becoming a
lord still opens the door to high office. It is just one of the many quirks of
British parliamentary democracy.

Today the Westminster brand is facing a crisis as its credibility continues to
sink. At the last election 40 per cent of people did not vote. In November MP
Tony Wright's report warned that Parliament was in "crisis" after the expenses
scandal and the crown's near total control of parliamentary business.

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg declared that "this government has had 13
years to fix our democracy, but instead it will leave office with Westminster's
reputation in tatters." The party likely to gain most from the alienation from
politics and parliament is the BNP.

In the general election every party from Ukip and the BNP through to the Liberal
Democrats, the SNP and Plaid Cymru and the Greens will take up the issue.

Labour is calling for the alternative vote system. The Liberal Democrats will be
demanding recallable MPs, proportional representation and an elected House of
Lords.

But the socialist and trade union movement has not worked out any coherent or
consistent policy. Some organisations have no policies on democracy. Others have
similar but differing policies which add to the sense of disunity. The result is
inaction.

The No2EU - Yes to Democracy campaign in the 2009 Euro elections could have been
an important point of departure. Trade unionists and socialists came together as
a temporary alliance involving RMT, the Communist Party, the Socialist Party,
the Alliance for Green Socialism and the Socialist Alliance.

The "Yes to Democracy" slogan was raised as part of the No2EU campaign. A
connection was made between a lack of democracy, anti-working class laws,
reduced workers' rights and free-market policies.

Britain's "broken democracy" is not about idealising some past golden age. We
have always had a flawed - or some would say a Tory - democracy, or "democratic
deficit."

The issue of Europe has merely added to the problem. In the past few years
events have shown the Westminster system to be a busted flush. It is not a
matter of patching it up with a few half-hearted and half-baked reforms. It
needs a much more radical change which involves masses of people creating their
own new democracy.

In 2002-3 the Iraq war tested Westminster. Over one million people demonstrated
against it. Parliament failed to represent the people. It voted for war and
simply provided some "legitimacy" for Blair's lies and deceptions.

Bush was committed to Iraq regime change before September 11 2001. The Twin
Towers gave him a handy excuse. Blair promised the support of the British crown
and its armed forces in early 2002, if not before. Military preparations were
under way in the summer of 2002. But Blair kept up the public pretence that
nothing was decided and there would be no war without the UN. Cabinet and
Parliament were kept in the dark to be used as a rubber stamp.

In the Westminster system the most important questions are decided by the crown
- ministers, civil servants and diplomats - in secret or behind closed doors.

Parliament knows little, cares less and can do nothing about it. It failed over
the war. It could claim to have been misled like the Cabinet. But if so it would
have done a serious investigation and prosecuted those involved. It could have
seized the key documents or arrested those who did not co-operate. Blair's
arrogance over this affair is built on the confidence that Parliament is too
enfeebled to call him to account.

The failings of Westminster are not confined to the Iraq war or MPs' expenses.
The same methods and results work out through the laws, taxes and spending
decisions that affect the living and working conditions of the working class.
You don't need to go to the House of Commons visitors' gallery to watch the
whole ridiculous pantomime in action. Better to see the results by walking
around the streets and housing estates in any of our towns and cities.

What should the left do about this broken so-called democracy? Ignore it and
hope it all goes away? Should the left champion parliamentary reform? Is there
an English national question? Is it time to call for an English parliament and a
federal republic?

The Communist Party's programme Britain's Road to Socialism points in this
direction. This Saturday the Republican Socialist Convention will be discussing
these and related issues and what the left should say about the democratic
question in the general election.

- The Republican Socialist Convention will be held at London South Bank
University, London Road (Elephant and Castle Tube, Bakerloo exit), London SE1
from 11.45am. Invited speakers include Peter Tatchell (Green Party), Colin Fox
(SSP), Robert Griffiths (CPB), John McDonnell MP, Peter Taaffe (Socialist Party)
and Bob Crow.

LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           February 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Prison is no joke;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uktelegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker ; Richard Eden

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 101 words


As the three Labour MPs and Tory peer are prosecuted for alleged false
accounting, let's not forget about Tom Wise, the Ukip MEP, who is serving a
two-year term at Ford open prison for fraudulently claiming £39,000 of
parliamentary expenses.

One of Wise's most treasured possessions is a Christmas card that Sir Paul
McCartney signed when he visited the European Parliament in December. Wise, who
has won himself a "cushy" job as a carpenter while he serves his sentence, has
told friends that he keeps the card, signed "Paul Mac", under his pillow because
"this place is full of thieves".

Edited by Richard Eden

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 6, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Bercow v Farage is a classic;
COLUMNS

BYLINE: PATRICK O' FLYNN

SECTION: 17

LENGTH: 74  words


WHEN the pro-Brussels Chris Patten lost his seat to the Lib Dems in 1992 one wag
at Tory HQ chirped up "Conservative gain". Commons Speaker John Bercow must know
that if he loses his Buckingham seat to UKIP's Nigel Farage there will be plenty
of Tories who will think the same. Bercow will be a tough nut to crack but his
name featuring among those MPs who had to repay substantial sums in overclaimed
expenses has surely helped Farage's cause.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 6, 2010 Saturday

Comment: It's late - but praise Brown for trying to make votes count: Even if it
changes little this time, embracing electoral reform shows Labour can still shed
its old skin and start again

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1085 words


If there is more joy in heaven over one repenting sinner, even at this eleventh
hour with only 60 parliamentary days to the election, then let's throw a few
hats in the air. In the tussle for Labour's ravaged soul, the progressive wing
is dragging the dark side towards the light. First, on Tuesday, finally, after
an obstructive delay, there will be a Commons vote on holding a referendum to
change to the alternative vote system within a year after the election. Second,
in two weeks' time, there will be votes on giving the Commons back powers
snatched by successive governments - not the phoney vote originally mooted but a
proper vote so MPs can seize back control.

Augean imagery - smell, stink, stench - wafted across parliament again yesterday
as three MPs and a Conservative shadow minister in the Lords were fingered for
prosecution. The expenses scandal will linger on with interminable appeals as
contradictory adjudicators reinspect the moats and duck islands. A general
election will do some cleansing, but what's needed is at least the start of a
new beginning in parliament. This cautious little electoral reform is a part of
that. How MPs are elected is not an abstract issue nor, as one insider put it,
"nerdy Guardian bollocks". It goes right to the heart of an MP's relationship
with the voter.

It is no coincidence that across all the parties the quarter of MPs whose noses
were deepest in the trough were the very same who occupy the rock-solid safest
seats, according to research from Left Foot Forward. The quarter of MPs who
claimed least held the most precarious seats. That's another argument for a
proportional voting system with no safe seats, so candidates need to earn every
vote and all MPs are under scrutiny.

The AV system now proposed is not proportional, but by placing candidates in
1,2,3 voting order, people can at least express a genuine preference for the
person and party of their first choice - Green or Ukip perhaps - while still
keeping out their most detested main party with their second choice: it opens
the door a crack to new parties. AV obliges every MP to win at least half the
votes. As the Guardian pointed out, it is a shocking fact that not one of the
646 members of the current House of Commons was elected by a majority of their
constituents.

Only reached late through a hedge backwards - as so often with Gordon Brown -
finally Labour emerges dishevelled, edging towards doing the better thing. Too
late? Almost, but not necessarily. On Tuesday all Tories will vote against a
referendum, all Lib Dems for it. Most Labour MPs will vote for it - but the
number of Labour refusniks will determine how hard the government pushes it in
the Lords: it needs a crescendo of approval from erstwhile doubters.

Many dyed-in-the-wool antis are changing their minds. I spoke to some previously
reluctant backbenchers, such as Clive Efford and Dick Caborn, passionately
opposed to PR but now in favour of an AV referendum. That's a sign of a party
beginning to change - though cynics might point to a YouGov poll showing that
35% of Lib Dem voters would be more likely to vote for a Labour party that
supports an AV referendum. Labour lost 1.5 million voters to the Lib Dems in
2005 - and internal polling suggests Lib Dems are twice as likely to throw their
second vote to Labour.

Can it pass in the Lords? That depends partly on what priority the government
gives it. The Lords are unpredictable: seasoned observers reckon many
cross-benchers will support a referendum and even some Tory peers, despite heavy
whipping and summoning of backwoodsmen who may filibuster for hours in the
chamber. They could talk away time from other bills the government wants to pass
- though frankly few in the queue are of such political salience. Labour must
stick with the referendum, however long it takes, to be on the side of giving
people the choice on how they vote.

Dither and confusion surrounded the fate of the good parliamentary reforms drawn
up by Tony Wright's committee. These include letting MPs vote in a secret ballot
for the chairs and the members of Commons select committees instead of the whips
appointing the obedient. MPs would get back control of 40% of the Commons
timetable to decide for themselves what to debate and when, with official party
support on all sides.

An explosion of indignation greeted Brown's response to the liaison committee on
Tuesday, suggesting MPs wouldn't get a real vote on them: if even one maverick
MP in the house shouted out opposition, the reform would fall. Some said Brown
was foot-dragging, others that he misspoke and was under-briefed. But by
Thursday the leader of the house, Harriet Harman, had firmly corrected Brown. "I
don't do devious," she said, and she promises a full debate with a proper vote
on each reform a few days later.

But as with AV, this is only a first timid step. A crucial Wright committee
reform that will be obstructed by both party's whips would give the Commons
control of its whole timetable, so that governments no longer ram through
legislation in a day virtually unscrutinised. Will MPs find their voice and defy
both Labour and Tory whips to take back their own parliament? Control over
Commons business was taken from MPs as a temporary emergency measure during the
first world war, but never relinquished. "It's appalling, and almost unique
among all other democracies," says Chris Huhne of the Lib Dems, the only party
to support the reform.

Commons procedures are abstruse but the voting system isn't: a referendum will
rouse public debate. The Conservatives say if they win, they'll pass another law
scrapping the referendum promise. "People don't want a new voting system - they
want a new politics," Cameron said this week. "Instead of Labour's fiddling with
the voting system, we will call for a 10% reduction in the number of MPs."

To use his own phrase, does he take people for fools? Gerrymandering the seats
(mostly Labour) while withdrawing people's right to choose their voting system
is the kind of cheating that has their policies unravelling day by day: their
abuse of crime statistics was breathtaking. Cameron is right that there are too
many MPs: fewer MPs of more prominence would sharpen parliament's reputation.
But it can only be done fairly with seats distributed proportionally according
to votes. Tuesday's vote on an AV changes nothing for this election - but
embracing electoral reform shows Labour can still shed its old skin and start
again.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           February 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Maloney boob spells trouble

BYLINE: FRANK WARREN

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 78

LENGTH: 35 words


BARKING UKIP candidate Frank Maloney (below) kicked off his campaign to become
an MP by misspelling "Britain" on his promotional posters.

If I lived in Barking (dangerous place that) PUKI wouldn't be getting my veto.

LOAD-DATE: February 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            February 5, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UKIP asks voters to unseat the Speaker

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 563 words


John Bercow would like to go down in history as a reforming Speaker of the
Commons who helped to sweep politics clean and restore respect for Parliament.

Fulfilling those ambitions will depend on whether he can first overcome a
challenge in his Buckingham constituency at the next election by an opponent
determined to portray the Speaker as the embodiment of a discredited political
system.

Mr Bercow is defending the safest seat in the country, on paper at least. Not
only did he win the largest majority (18,129 votes) of any Conservative MP in
2005 but, in keeping with recent tradition by which serving Speakers are allowed
a free run, Labour and Liberal Democrats have agreed not to field candidates.

Although many Tories openly distrust him, David Cameron urged "supporters of all
parties - and of none - to vote for the Speaker John Bercow". Similar messages
of support are expected from Gordon Brown and Nick Clegg.

It is testament to the febrile nature of today's politics that these apparent
advantages are now being used as sticks with which to beat Mr Bercow.

Nigel Farage, who stood down as leader of the UK Independence Party to fight the
seat, greeted news yesterday of Mr Cameron's statement by clapping his hands.
"Great! It's just what we wanted," he declared. "This is an opportunity for the
people of Buckingham to stick two fingers up to the whole political class as
represented by the Speaker, the figurehead of Parliament."

Yesterday the UKIP candidate could be found stalking votes for a council
by-election next week in Maids Moreton - one of more than 80 villages that make
up this rural constituency.

He is spending up to four days a week in the seat and has promised to "drink a
pint" in every pub that he can find.

On the doorstep Mr Farage seeks to merge UKIP's old theme on Europe with
personal hostility to Mr Bercow, whom he calls "Mr Very-pleasedwith-himself", as
well as wider anger over expenses. Ann Moore-Martin, a retired head teacher,
told him: "Bercow is good locally but I don't think I really trust him. He does
not really have the stature, or perhaps integrity, of some of those great
Speakers."

Some mentioned Mr Bercow's own expenses problems. The Speaker has been asked to
repay almost £1,000 for an "accidental over-claim" of mortgage interest. He has
also voluntarily handed over £6,500 because he avoided capital gains tax when he
flipped the designation of his taxpayer-funded second home.

Few were aware of the more serious antics involving UKIP. Tom Wise, a former
MEP, who was jailed last year for two years over fraudulent claims of £39,000.
Mr Farage said that he had "dealt with that problem ruthlessly".

In an interview with The Times Mr Bercow suggested that "we are witnessing the
last remaining reels of a particular grisly horror movie" over expenses.

He hoped that Parliament would be able to "move on" after voters delivered their
verdict later this year.

While his aides dismiss any suggestion that MPs will be moving on without Mr
Bercow, other observers believe that it is wrong to take victory for granted. Mr
Bercow insisted that he would be campaigning vigorously. He said: "I will
campaign for reelection on the basis of my track record over 13 years as a local
MP, my continuing commitment to the Buckingham constituency and my determination
to restore faith in Parliament."

Bercow: "I will campaign on my track record"

LOAD-DATE: February 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           February 4, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Dashboards, petrol tanks. . .hiding places for migrants

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS 187; 09

LENGTH: 156  words


BRITAIN'S porous borders have been exposed by a frontline police officer dealing
with illegal immigration.

Detective Sergeant Paul Bratton, from Kent Police's frontier crime unit, warned
that the tide of migrants shows "little sign of slowing".

DS Bratton, who is based at Dover's ferry port, said: "Most of the cases we have
to deal with involve economic migrants."

People smugglers have resorted to bizarre new methods to bring illegal
immigrants into Britain.

DS Bratton said: "A man had managed to squeeze into a petrol tank and we've had
a lady hiding behind a dashboard."

Only 108 people were convicted of border offences at Dover last year and just a
quarter of them were for people trafficking.

UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said:

"In order to have effective border controls we must fund the Border Agency
properly."

Last night Border Force chief Tom Dowdall said the number of people getting
across the Channel had "plummeted" by 90 per cent.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A woman found hiding behind a car dashboard in a desperate bid to sneak
into Britain
Police find immigrants hidden in a tanker full of maize starch
Picture: SWNS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 3, 2010 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Where there is discord, will Geert Wilders bring
harmony? That would certainly be a first

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 665 words


So here we go again, with the Dutch Muslim-baiter Geert Wilders - having bested
the government's entry ban last year - apparently preparing for a second visit.
His host once again would be the otherwise anonymous Ukip leader Lord Pearson of
Rannoch, who seems determined to hear what Wilders will tell us. The Dutchman
certainly has an interesting take on things. Thanks to the website Liberal
Conspiracy we see his 10-point plan to save western civilisation, with
highlights that include: "Stop pretending that Islam is a religion. Islam is a
totalitarian ideology. . .the right to religious freedom should not apply to
Islam", and "Encourage voluntary repatriation". There are other helpful
suggestions, such as "Have every member of a non-western minority sign a legally
binding contract of assimilation" and "Close all Islamic schools, for they are
fascist institutions". Yes, Geert (pictured) is a man of our times and no
mistake. You bring the powderkeg. He'll bring a match.

But then Ukip-types like strong talk. And that certainly goes for Godfrey "never
less than eight pints" Bloom, who is still the man he was, despite being taken
to task by Greens in Yorkshire for posting a video gloating about the 1985
sinking of Greenpeace vessel Rainbow Warrior. Activist Adrian Cruden beckoned
Godders to the naughty step, noting that the French act of sabotage was not in
fact a laugh but actually caused the death of a Dutch photographer. But Godfrey,
who had quite forgotten the fatality, doesn't do contrition. "National
Socialism, Islam-fascism, eco-fascism always end in the deaths of the innocent,"
he responded blithely. And the Greens, he goes on, have much to answer for
themselves. "You bear and will continue to bear responsibilities for deaths on a
much bigger scale than the IRA or al-Qaida," hurrumphs the hard man from the
north. Statesmanlike. Proportionate. Nice!

That's not to say that elected types are all like that. Certainly they are not
like that at the beginning. They start with good intentions, brimming with hope.
And with that in mind, let us welcome the U party, which plans to stand in
around a dozen seats come the general election. Leader Robin Ellison is a City
pensions lawyer and former chairman of the National Association of Pension
Funds. He says he is gunning for Glenda Jackson's seat of Hampstead & Kilburn,
with pensions of £200 a week top of the agenda. And why the U party? "We tried
fruit and colours, but they had all been used," he told us. "So we worked our
way down the alphabet and U seemed appropriate because we want our policies to
be about you, the voter." Bless.

?Which may or not make more sense than the What Party, the absurdist political
vehicle created by the late Peter Cook, now being revived in time for the
election by our friend/stalker/confidant, the veteran surrealist Rainbow George
Weiss. Perhaps the two parties should work together, we tell him. U What?

And so, David Dimbleby, is Britain Broken? Can't go there, insists the elder
statesman, interviewed in the Radio Times. "That's too political for me to
answer because that's a slogan. I won't talk about politics because we've an
election coming up and I think it's not right to do that." But then he's canny,
he always has been; whereas the Today programme's Justin Webb is more trusting.
And so it is that the Tory-supporting Mail on Sunday headlines his thoughtful
contribution on the differences between here and the US: "Britain's broken,
violent and grim - and I adore it." Trusting of the Mail? More fool him.

And yet he's right, something is wrong in our towns and cities. They see it
abroad, with the French launching a public health competition hoping to learn
from the British experience and pointedly calling it Le Binge. "We are not at
the same level as you yet but we are going down the same road," admits health
official Alexandre Farnault. Ah yes, that road, unpassable on a Friday night.
Watch your back. Step over the lad being sick.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Unrest feared as peers invite anti-Islam MP

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 282 words


A RADICAL Dutch MP will seek to test free speech in Britain next month when he
makes a second attempt to visit the House of Lords to screen a controversial
film equating Islam with Nazism.

Geert Wilders has accepted an invitation from Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the
leader of Ukip, and Baroness Cox, a cross-bench peer, to show his anti-Islam
film, Fitna, in the Palace of Westminster on March 5. His visit and the film,
which claims the Koran is a terrorist handbook, are expected to provoke protests
from British Muslims, including other members of the Lords.

British officials said the Government was powerless to ban Mr Wilders, despite
public order fears, after he overturned a previous entry ban following a legal
challenge last year.

He was arrested and deported from Heathrow last February after the Home Office
banned him on the grounds "that his presence in the UK could foster hatred and
threaten community harmony in light of his anti-Muslim rhetoric".

One of the main reasons his entry was banned was a Dutch judicial decision to
prosecute him on charges of inciting racial hatred, a highprofile trial that
continues in Amsterdam tomorrow.

Mr Wilders, whose anti-Muslim Freedom Party leads Dutch opinion polls, brought,
and won, a challenge to his entry ban from the Asylum and Immigration Tribunal
in October. "It would be very difficult for the Government to stop him entering
as the tribunal made it very clear they do not support the Government's
position," said a British official.

Lord Ahmed, a Muslim peer, has promised to mobilise 10,000 Muslims to block Mr
Wilders from entering the House of Lords. The Muslim Council of Great Britain
has described him as "an open preacher of hate".

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: High-profile case: supporters of Geert Wilders gather outside court in
Amsterdam, where he is charged with inciting racial hatred
REUTERS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Peers invite anti-Islam MP

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 178 words


A RADICAL Dutch MP will seek to test free speech in Britain next month when he
makes a second attempt to visit the House of Lords to screen a controversial
film equating Islam with Nazism.

Geert Wilders has accepted an invitation from Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the
leader of Ukip, and Baroness Cox, a cross-bench peer, to show his anti-Islam
film, Fitna, in the Palace of Westminster on March 5. His visit and the film,
which claims the Koran is a terrorist handbook, are expected to provoke protests
from British Muslims.

British officials said the Government was powerless to ban MrWilders, despite
public order fears, after he overturned a previous entry ban following a legal
challenge last year. He was arrested and deported last February after the Home
Office banned him on the grounds "that his presence in the UK could foster
hatred and threaten community harmony in light of his anti-Muslim rhetoric".

One of the main reasons his entry was banned was a Dutch decision to prosecute
him on charges of inciting racial hatred, a trial that continues in Amsterdam
tomorrow.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

MPs block out good life;
TV EXPRESS

BYLINE: Matt Baylis

SECTION: TV 564; 39

LENGTH: 547  words


IT seems to be Hug A Politician Week over on Channel Four.

Sunday evening saw a movie-length drama tribute to Mo Mowlam, the late, former
Northern Ireland Secretary.

And last night offered us TOWER BLOCK OF COMMONS (C4), in which a clutch of
plucky - or perhaps vote-needy - Westminster types went off to live on council
estates to see what it's like.

It's a common chorus, heard in many a pub, hair salon and back of a taxi, that
we should make the politicians go and dwell among the common folk for a week so
they could learn a thing or two - or at the very least, get duffed up. Every now
and then, one or two do it and someone makes a TV programme about it. If a few
more were doing it more regularly and without the cameras present, a few more of
us might be more impressed. But there you go - it's entertainment more than
government and as far as entertaining sights go, watching Iain Duncan Smith don
a hoodie and take a bullmastiff for a walk scored pretty high.

It's a shame that the former Tory leader had to abandon filming owing to family
illness. Of all the candidates on offer, the thoughtful, gentlemanly, slightly
vicar-like IDS might have been the most likely to learn something. A close
second might have been Liberal Democrat Mark Oaten, although his response to
conditions on the Dagenham estate he's visiting suggested that he's going to
remain true to his party colours through and through.

Did he suggest a sit-in down at the housing office? A rent strike?

Dirty protest? No - this political firebrand got on the computer and started
drafting a petition.

Least likely to learn anything, from what we saw in the first episode, is
veteran Labour MP Austin Mitchell who, in spite of his impeccably old-school
socialist views, only agreed to do the programme if he could bring his wife,
Linda McDougall, and have his own flat from the start. They didn't stay in this
'des res' for long, though. After getting furniture from the Salvation Army,
they drove off to have dinner with old pals.

Linda seemed to think she was participating in a Westminster themed version of
Celebrity Big Brother and kept interrupting the semi-serious business of
learning how the other half lives by offering up some long, personal
confessions.

Very odd - but still, not entirely uninteresting at that.

You have to wonder what political-reality entertainment spectacular Channel Four
will be unleashing on us next: Indian Cookery With Nick Griffin? UKIP On Ice?

Another odd choice for a cosy night's viewing was MYSTERY FILES: JACK THE RIPPER
(National Geographic UK). The real Jack's identity has exercised many a
programme-maker and barmpot for years. Frontrunners include one of Queen
Victoria's grandsons, a royal physician and the painter Walter Sickert.

The conclusions presented here - that Jack was a Jewish butcher - were not as
remarkable as the reconstructions, which would have done justice to a snuff
movie. The screams, looming shadows and traditional 'cock-a-nee' cobbled lanes
were somewhere between Hammer House of Horror and The Fast Show, while the blood
sprays and cut-throat close-ups were as nasty as they were unnecessary.

How depressing, as well, that this programme carried the imprint of National
Geographic, a name we associate with celebrating life rather than violent death.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MPs look for block votes;
TV EXPRESS

BYLINE: Matt Baylis

SECTION: TV 548; 39

LENGTH: 532  words


IT seems to be Hug A Politician Week over on Channel 4.

Sunday evening saw a movie-length drama tribute to Mo Mowlam, the late former
Northern Ireland Secretary and last night offered us TOWER BLOCK OF COMMONS.

Here a clutch of plucky, or perhaps vote-needy, Westminster types went off to
live on council estates to see what it's like.

It's a common chorus, heard in many a pub, hair salon and back of a taxi, that
we should make the politicians go and dwell among the common folk for a week so
they could learn a thing or two; or at the very least get duffed up.

Every now and then one or two do it and someone makes a TV programme about it.
If a few more were doing it more regularly and without the cameras present, a
few more of us might be more impressed.

But there you go; it's entertainment more than government and as far as
entertaining sights go, watching Iain Duncan Smith don a hoodie and take a
bullmastiff for a walk scored pretty high.

It's a shame that the former Tory leader had to abandon filming owing to family
illness. Of all the candidates on offer the thoughtful, gentlemanly, slightly
vicar-like IDS might have been the most likely to learn something. A close
second might have been Liberal Democrat Mark Oaten, although his response to
conditions on the Dagenham estate he's visiting suggested that he's going to
remain true to his party colours through and through.

Did he suggest a sit-in down at the housing office? A rent strike?

Dirty protest? No, this political firebrand got on the computer and started
drafting a petition.

Least likely to learn anything, from what we saw in the first episode, is
veteran Labour MP Austin Mitchell who only agreed to do the programme if he
could bring his wife Linda McDougall and have his own flat from the start.

They didn't stay in this "des res" for long, though. After getting furniture
from the Salvation Army they drove off to have dinner with old pals.

Linda seemed to think she was participating in a Westminster-themed version of
Celebrity Big Brother and kept interrupting the semi-serious business of
learning how the other half live by offering up some long, personal confessions.
Very odd but still, not entirely uninteresting at that.

You have to wonder what political reality entertainment spectacular Channel 4
will be unleashing on us next: Indian Cookery With Nick Griffin? UKIP On Ice?

Another odd choice for a cosy night's viewing was MYSTERY FILES: JACK THE RIPPER
(National Geographic UK). The real Jack's identity has exercised many a
programme-maker and barmpot for years. Frontrunners include one of Queen
Victoria's grandsons, a royal physician and the painter Walter Sickert.

The conclusions presented here - that Jack was a Jewish butcher - were not as
remarkable as the reconstructions, which would have done justice to a snuff
movie.

The screams, looming shadows and traditional "cock-a-nee" cobbled lanes were
somewhere between Hammer House of Horror and The Fast Show, while the blood
sprays and cut-throat close-ups were as nasty as they were unnecessary.

How depressing, as well, that this programme carried the imprint of National
Geographic, a name we associate with celebrating life rather than violent death.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Now Moldovans will win the right to live in Britain

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS 468; 04

LENGTH: 441  words


A NEW wave of immigration from eastern Europe edged closer last night after
Romania promised to fast-track a back-door route into Britain.

Tens of thousands of citizens from Moldova - Europe's poorest country - will
soon be granted rights to live and work in the UK and other EU states as part of
a controversial Bucharest policy offering Romanian citizenship.

Romanian President Traian Basescu reaffirmed his earlier pledge to offer EU
rights to Moldovans, due to historical links, during a state visit to the
impoverished former Soviet state last week.

And he announced the creation of a new citizenship agency to fast track the one
million applications the Romanian government has already received to go
alongside a new nationality law granting citizenship in just five months.

He said: "The government will issue an emergency decree to set up a special
Nationality Agency granting Romanian citizenship."

Moldovans do not need a visa to live or work in Romania but prize an EU passport
for the right to travel to richer states such as the UK to seek work.

However last night there was growing anger that Romania will release a new
influx of migrant workers. Sir Andrew Green of MigrationWatch UK described the
Romanian policy as "outrageous".

He said: "It's high time the EU addressed the issue of who is entitled to an EU
passport.

"At present it's entirely in the hands of individual governments who can reach
bizarre decisions, often for internal political reasons.

"The Romanians, Greeks, Spanish and Italians all seem to dish out passports to a
wide range of people with historical, often tenuous, connections to their
countries."

UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage said:

"Any pretence that Britain can control its borders, or that immigration can be
contained while we stay in the European Union is destroyed by this revelation."

Moldova was part of Romania until 1940 when it was annexed by the Soviet Union.
It gained independence in 1991 and 80 per cent of the four million population is
ethnic Romanian. However, Moldova is now Europe's poorest country.

Eighty per cent of the population struggle to survive on less than ÂGBP 1 a day.
And nine out of 10 young Moldovans plan to leave the country, according to a UN
report.

Some 600,000 Moldovans already work abroad in Britain and other parts of Europe
- legally and illegally. More than a million eastern Europeans came to the UK
after Britain opened its doors to the so-called A8 countries - Poland, Estonia,
Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, the Czech Republic, Hungary and Slovenia - when
they joined the EU in 2004.

Tens of thousands more came from Romania and Bulgaria after they became EU
members in 2007.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Moldovans at a rally in their capital, Chisinau. Tens of thousands will
soon have the right to live and work in Britain

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: Diary: A high-profile event to garland our boys in Afghanistan. If only
the BNP man had been sober

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 662 words


The gloves are off again in Barking, where the boxing promoter Frank Maloney,
Ukip's talisman for the general election, has been rebuffed in his attempts to
settle the issue in the boxing ring. Nick Griffin said no, citing a historical
eye injury. Margaret Hodge was never going to make the weight. And so each will
rely on their high-calibre local supporters in east London.

In Griffin's case, this will mean a prominent role for Bob Bailey, the leader of
the opposition on Barking and Dagenham council, where the BNP has 12
councillors. Oh dear. For Bailey, the BNP's main organiser in the capital, will
keep making a fool of himself. He did it again last week. The occasion was a
high-profile event to award the freedom of the borough to various worthies. Sir
Trevor Brooking, Barking born and bred, was a recipient, as was General Sir John
McColl, the deputy supreme allied commander Europe, who accepted the honour on
behalf of the borough's adopted regiment, the Royal Anglian, currently deployed
to Afghanistan. All received testimonials, and no doubt the Royal Anglian would
have been showered with praise by Bailey - as had been arranged. Alas, he was
pissed. So pissed that when he left the room, officials ruled that he should not
be re-admitted. There were protests, of course there were protests, but then
this is a man who attributed last year's drink-driving conviction to "a
conspiracy against the indigenous people". People drink and then they say the
strangest things.

Meanwhile, David Cameron's fight to fix Broken Britain continues to take top
priority for Conservatives in east London, despite the expulsion of one party
chair for racking up three criminal convictions. And the imprisonment of Suresh
Kumar, the former chair of Ilford South Conservatives, who solicited a bribe.
Thus activists are unlikely to be deflected by the latest brouhaha, which has
one Tory councillor being interviewed by the police over allegations he harassed
his former lover. According to reports, his anger was fuelled - at least in part
- by a suspicion that she had been bewitched by a Conservative colleague using
hypnosis. Nothing is proven, but anywhere else there would be scandal. Here it's
par for the course.

?And talking of the Tories, who should be afraid of Kit Malthouse, the man
selected by Boris Johnson to chair the capital's police authority; the man who
boasted that the politicians already have their "hands on the tiller" at
Scotland Yard? Should it be Sir Paul Stephenson, the commissioner, who thought -
naively, perhaps - that he ran the Met? Or should it perhaps be Boris himself?
"He will stay in supervisory control," said Malthouse, explaining to BBC London
News how the new arrangements will work. "Nothing will change. I am still
accountable to the mayor. He appoints me. I'm his boss. If I don't deliver he
will remove me." Enough there to worry everybody.

?Much attention and many plaudits for Invictus, Clint Eastwood's new film about
Nelson Mandela, which had its UK premiere on Sunday. And keen observers will
know that the title comes from the famous WE Henley poem of that name, which
Mandela found so inspirational during his time in prison. He is not the only
fan, for Gordon Brown told News of the World readers that he, too, is an admirer
of the poem. And among the lesser-known admirers was Ronnie Kray, who even had
it recited at his funeral in Bethnal Green in 1995. The hymn that followed was
Fight the Good Fight, but that was hardly a surprise.

He was the father of expressionism, insufficiently recognised in his own
lifetime perhaps, but revered thereafter. Not that Van Gogh (pictured) did it
for the fame. He worked from much higher motivation than ego. But even he would
be proud to know that among the bargains to be had at the Royal Academy of Arts,
home to a blockbuster exhibition, The Real Van Gogh - the Artist and His
Letters, is a Van Gogh bowling bag. Van Gogh and the Big Lebowski. Artists both.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            February 2, 2010 Tuesday

Gordon Brown's conversion to electoral reform is unlikely to do him any good

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1176 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: The PM's policy switch looks like an undignified tactical move to
create a 'dividing line' with the Tories

FULL TEXT

So  after weeks of dithering and decided to back those cabinet colleagues
seeking a pre-election commitment to a referendum on electoral reform. Will it
do him any good? I doubt it.

Peter Hain, John Denham and Jack Straw are among those supporting a
post-election referendum on the alternative vote (AV) option. Ed Balls favours
AV now too - it's a Brownite policy switch - but thinks it would be a
distraction at this stage in the parliament. He's right.

Nick Clegg and his Lib Dem allies, whom it's supposed to impress, jeer at
Brown's "deathbed conversion". The Tories oppose AV and say they would reverse
any legal obligation if Brown manages to insert one into the rag-bag
constitutional reform bill.

To me it looks like an undignified tactical move to create a "dividing line"
with the Tories, just like the hasty personal care at home which rebel peers,
Lords Warner and Lipsey,  last night.

But Pam Giddy, director of the Power2010 lobby, welcomes it as a belated
admission that the current set-up no longer reflects the realities of multiparty
politics. But she dams him with faint praise.

"The prime minister parades this as an example of the "new politics" on offer
from Labour, but to many it will seem like the same old top-down politics that
put them off in the first place.

"Without troubling the public for their views, ministers hand-picked the voting
system they favour in a cynical exercise aimed at wrong-footing the Tories ahead
of a likely election defeat. The future of our democracy is far too important to
be decided by empty gestures such as this."

Fair point, though  is not above manipulating the public's views to serve its
own agenda. Its recent exercise in voter consultation which produced support for
modest reforms - stronger Commons committees, not sweeping PR - was downplayed,
I'm told.

I'd better be careful here. I've always been a sceptic about the efficacy of
proportional representation (PR) as a cure for Britain's political woes. The
proposition strikes me as naïve and certain to lead to further alienation if it
were to be tried and prove disappointing.

First-past-the-post (FPTP) voting isn't "immoral" or "undemocratic", as PR buffs
routinely claim. It's just a different set of rules, producing certain results
and electoral consequences.

The single transferable vote (STV), the purists' favourite model, would produce
different results and consequences, neither more moral or democratic, possibly
less so. Says me.

Yes, it would be "fairer" in representing minority points of view as expressed
by minority parties. But those views would have to be bundled up into larger
coalitions - not so different from intra-party coalitions which embrace many
shades of opinion.

Would the outcome be more transparent and accountable? Possibly, but looking at
how politics works in coalition-minded countries - say Germany, Israel, Ireland
- I can't say that I think so.

What it does make much harder is strong government, capable of taking difficult
and unpopular decisions. That's what a lot of people want. They point to Iraq as
an example of strong government gone wrong, though there's a downside when
urgently needed decisions you may approve of are shelved or ducked.

In any case AV is not a proportional system. In Australia where it currently
operates it requires voters to list the candidates 1-2-3 etc and gives the seat
to the one who eventually gets 50%. Actually,  among others, it can also distort
a swing even further than FPTP does.

So I was surprised to hear my former Guardian colleague, Martin Linton, a
passionate PR buff for 30 years, saying on the radio this morning that he now
backs it because it's better than the status quo.

That reinforces my suspicion that expediency and a desire to "fuck up the
Tories" - as one ex-cabinet minister told me this morning - lies behind the
change.  campaign which harried Balls's "fifth column" resistance, has welcomed
the cabinet's shift - being confirmed today and unveiled by the PM in a speech
to the ippr thinktank.

A more sceptical tone emerged today from the which has been around since the
mid-70s - when Tories like Chris Patten and Douglas Hurd, then in opposition,
wobbled on PR. "A cynical death bed conversion", says CAER which "admires" STV.

Cutting the number of MPs by 10% and fairer boundaries, as David Cameron
proposes, better fits the public mood. CAER draws attention to the E.

My ex-cabinet minister is no more typical than anyone else, but is worth hearing
for a dash of low political calculation.

"I would go along with AV for the sake of electoral advantage. There is no
system that is fair to everyone, but AV would take us a bit nearer to reflecting
local opinion and would also be very bad for extremists. The BNP wouldn't get
anywhere with AV," he argues.

That may be complacent and doesn't exactly reflect the supposed spirit of
fairness either. But it's what a lot of them think.

In a proper PR system Greens, Ukip, BNP, Flat Earthers, any group which passed
the threshold (5%?) would all get proportionate shares of the seats. That's the
point. That's why Alex Salmond is first minister at Holyrood and Plaid Cymru
shares power in Cardiff Bay. It's multi-party democracy in action and it's OK to
love it or hate it: it's just politics by different rules.

In their present angry mood over MPs' expenses and much else, would voters
embrace AV in a referendum which could emerge from post-election horse-trading
if today's  is right to predict a hung parliament this spring?

Put it another way, could Nick Clegg shore up a defeated government, one in
which Gordon Brown is now reported to be planning to hang on as Labour leader
even if he does not keep the keys of No 10?

It's all very uncertain, and is meant so to be. We probably won't even know
until the Friday lunchtime who - if anyone - has won because at least 100 seats
will not count overnight. David Cameron would have to be heading for a 40-50
seat majority to be able to sleep confidently on the Thursday night.

But the facts pressing for change are stark. Remember, in 2005 the Tories got
8,782,197 votes (33.2%) and 198 seats; the Lib Dems got 5,985,454 votes (22.6%)
and 62 seats; Labour got 9,567,589 votes (36.2%) and 356 seats.

I've always argued that voters got roughly what they wanted, a Blair government
with a much reduced majority, not one led by Michael Howard. But even I can see
the case for saying it's just not representative enough.

In 2005 victorious Labour got barely more than the 35.2% share which consigned
Neil Kinnock to defeat in 1992. It's a sobering thought, but is it the cause of
our current problems? Of that I'm not sure.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      February 2, 2010 Tuesday 7:53 PM GMT

Cameron and his suicidal eco-rats clamber aboard sinking ship

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 483 words


I thought the last straw was when the Conservatives decided at the weekend to
kiss goodbye to fiscal responsibility. But no. Their determination to scrap
every last vestige of Tory ideology really does know no bounds: (hat tip: the
Unbrainwashed)

LONDON -(Dow Jones)- The U.K. opposition Conservative party will set out plans
Tuesday to consolidate the government's various plans to support climate-
friendly technologies into a single Green Investment Bank if they emerge
victorious in an election due by June 3.

In a speech to be delivered Tuesday morning, the Conservative's treasury chief,
George Osborne, is set to announce a working group to draw up plans for a Green
Investment Bank, with Nicholas Stern-a topclimate change adviser to the current
Labour government in recent years-taking on a role as adviser to the group,
according to Osborne's office. Bob Wigley, chairman of international telephone
directories company Yell Group PLC, will be among those serving on the working
group.

The aim is for the Green Investment Bank to provide a mix of government and
private-sector cash to invest in promising new technologies, Osborne will say.

My colleague Douglas Murray has done a splendid number on the Blairesque
vacuousness of Osborne's speech. I'd like to concentrate on its economic
illiteracy.

Is David Cameron's inner circle really so out of touch that not one of them is
aware how quickly the AGW scam is unravelling - with even the Guardian and
Geoffrey Lean nuancing their ideological positions?

When Osborne talks about the "green jobs" his brave new economic model is going
to generate, is he really not aware of the pitiful example of Spain where for
every "green job" created through government spending 2.2 jobs have been LOST in
the real economy?

And before approaching Lord Stern to head this new economic suicide unit (he has
since turned them down, apparently) could they really not have first tried
someone with a bit more commonsense, bottom and scientific credibility? Ronald
McDonald, maybe? Mahmoud Ahmadinejad? John Terry?

Well Dave Cameron, George Osborne and their claque of liberal-left eco-loons
might not be able to see it. But it seems that pretty much everyone else can.

Here's Richard North:

"absolutely unbelievable ... just as the whole global warming scam is falling
apart, the Tories re-affirm their commitment to it. You could not have better
evidence that the hierarchy is completely out of touch with events."

Here's Andrew Stuttaford at NRO's The Corner:

Way to lose, Mr Cameron.

Here are some of the reader comments on this morning's Telegraph report.

Please tell me this is a JOKE !

The day Cameron finally lost the election.

God how I hate these Conservatives.

I have been thinking to vote UKIP. Now I'm thinking to vote for Labour directly.
Better that atrocities like this are committed in their name.

Perhaps some of you might care to add some thoughts of your own?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            February 1, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Support grows for burka ban;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 65 words


Two thirds of voters say burkas should be banned in public places such as
airports.

However, 60 per cent of the 1,000 respondents to a poll in the Independent
newspaper are reluctant to see the veil banned completely.

A number of European nations have been debating whether burkas should be
outlawed, although the UK Independence Party is the only party that supports a
total ban in this country.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 81 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            February 1, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Ban the burkha'

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 111  words


' TWO out of three people believe burkhas should be banned in public, it was
revealed last night.

A survey suggests that the veil, worn by some Muslim women, is unpopular in
Britain with 64 per cent of people believing it should be illegal to wear it in
public places like banks and airports.

And 61 per cent of the people polled also believe that schools should be allowed
to prevent teachers wearing burkhas.

The figures from pollster ComRes come as a debate on whether to outlaw the veil
is raging in France and Italy.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage said: "Most shopping centres forbid
hoodies because they disguise the wearer. The Muslim veils are no different."

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 81 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 1, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Poll shows Britons back limited curbs on the veil

BYLINE: Andrew Grice POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 358 words


The British people support some restrictions on wearing the burka in public but
oppose an outright ban, according to a new poll for The Independent. The ComRes
survey found that almost two out of three people believe it should be illegal to
wear a burka in places such as banks and airports. But six out of 10 people
oppose a ban on wearing it in all public places.

An intense debate on whether to outlaw the veil worn by Muslim women is raging
in France and Italy and is likely to spread to other European nations. The UK
Independence Party, which wants to withdraw from the EU, has called for a ban on
the burka, saying it is helping create a "divided society".

The ComRes survey of more than 1,000 people found that 52 per cent disagreed
with the proposition that there should be no legal restrictions on wearing a
burka, while 43 per cent agreed. But asked if it should be illegal to wear a
burka in any public place, 36 per cent agreed and 59 per cent disagreed.

Some 64 per cent of people believed it should be illegal to wear a burka in
places like banks and airports, while 33 per cent disagreed. By a similar margin
(61 to 35 per cent), people thought schools should be allowed to prevent
teachers wearing burkas if they wish.

The most striking variation of opinion among different groups of people was by
age. Only 15 per cent of 18-24 year-olds believed that wearing the burka should
be banned in any public place, compared to 57 per cent of those 65 and older.
Women were more opposed to restrictions than men. The South east region,
including London, was the most liberal, and northern England the least. The AB
social group was the most liberal, with C2 skilled manual workers and the bottom
DE group the least.

In Britain, opponents of curbs on the veil have warned that restrictions would
fuel Islamophobia and assist far-right parties. They say the debate in France
has demonised the minority of Muslim women who wear a veil.

ComRes telephoned 1,016 GB adults on 27-28 January 2010. Data were weighted to
be representative of all adults. ComRes is a member of the British Polling
Council and abides by its rules. Full tables at comres.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
