
                               1 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

BELEAGUERED GORDON BROWN'S NOT OF THIS AGE, SAYS JOHNSON

BYLINE: BY JAMES CHAPMAN, SAM GREENHILL AND JAMES SLACK

LENGTH: 954 words


ALAN Johnson described Gordon Brown as a 'politician not of this age' yesterday
as angry colleagues warned that the Prime Minister's 'bigot' gaffe could have a
devastating impact on Labour's core vote.

The Home Secretary is expected to team up with Foreign Secretary David Miliband
to form a 'dream ticket' for the party leadership after the election.

One Labour source predicted Mr Brown will be ousted whatever the result as he
faces bitter recriminations over his disastrous encounter with 66-year- old
widow Gillian Duffy.

With signs that Labour is already turning in on itself, one minister said the
affair had been 'ghastly' and another predicted it could have a 'catastrophic'
impact on turnout among traditional working-class supporters.

Mr Brown, who was wearing a microphone in his lapel during a Wednesday walkabout
in Rochdale, was overheard describing lifelong Labour voter Mrs Duffy as a
'bigot' after she raised the issue of immigration with him.

Mr Johnson said the Prime Minister's gaffe was a 'terrible blow' to Labour and
caused astonishment by appearing to agree that the party was now fighting for
its very existence.

Polls indicate that Mr Brown is on the brink of a historic defeat on the scale
of that achieved by Michael Foot in 1983, when Labour polled just 27 per cent of
the vote. One poll last night put Labour on an extraordinary 23 per cent.

'It's damaging,' the Home Secretary said. 'I was, to use the Prime Minister's
phrase, mortified. Not so much for Gordon - I mean he is big enough, ugly enough
and strong enough to look after himself - but for Mrs Duffy. I think when you
saw her face and the hurt that it caused her, there was an enormous feeling of
sympathy there and Labour supporters, not least of all in Rochdale, would have
been horrified about that.'

Mr Johnson said Mr Brown was a ' principled politician' who did not care about
public relations, adding: 'Maybe he sometimes seems to be a politician not of
this age.'

It emerged yesterday that the Prime Minister's advisers desperately tried to
twist Mrs Duffy's arm to stand beside him for the cameras after he returned to
her house to apologise on Wednesday. Her nephew Peter Duffy revealed: 'They
asked, "Can you go out and stand in the drive with him?" I just did not think at
the time it was a good idea.'

Yesterday the Prime Minister was chaperoned by his wife Sarah and Labour's
campaign chief Lord Mandelson as he met workers at a welding factory in the
Midlands.

But he endured another awkward encounter after remarking to Jayne Shinwell, a
contract development worker, that the firm was doing well in China. Mr Brown
grimaced as the 40-year-old mother of two responded: 'Our company's doing well
everywhere, but I think it's in spite of you.'

A chastened Prime Minister claimed yesterday that he understands the public have
fears about immigration being too high. During the factory visit, an employee
asked him what Labour planned to do about immigration which is 'way too high in
this country'.

The Prime Minister acknowledged immigration was on many people's minds and
perceived as being 'way too high'. He added: 'I understand the worries people
have about immigration, I understand the concerns about what is happening to
people's neighbourhoods and I understand the fears that people have.'

His remarks were immediately overshadowed by damaging allegations that Labour
has sought to mislead the public over immigration. In a BBC interview this week,
Alan Johnson claimed the Government was removing an illegal immigrant every six
minutes.

That rate of removal would be 87,600 a year - while the latest Home Office
statistics for 2009 give a total of only 64,750.

But even this figure includes 29,060 people who were turned away at the border
and never entered the country.

Analysis by the MigrationWatch think tank said the true figure for removals -
'in the normal sense of the word' was 23,950, or one every 22 minutes.

A poll by Angus Reid for the Economist last night put the Conservatives in first
place among those certain to vote with 33 per cent, followed by the Liberal
Democrats on 30, with Labour on a catastrophic 23 per cent.

LABOUR TWIT'S POST-VOTE BLUNDER

A LABOUR candidate faces a police inquiry after she revealed the results of a
sample of postal ballots one week before the General Election.

Kerry McCarthy relayed the results of around 300 votes to her 5,700 followers on
the social networking site Twitter.

Electoral laws state that it is illegal to reveal the results of votes cast
before the end of polling day as this could influence the outcome of the
election. Anyone found to have breached the law faces a possible 65,000 fine or
six-month jail sentence.

Miss McCarthy, who is standing for re-election in Bristol East, wrote: 'First
PVs opened in east Bristol, our sample: Eng Dems ; Greens ; UKIP ; TUSC ; BNP ;
Lib Dem ; Tory ; Labour . #gameON!' (The numbers have been removed).

The candidate, who is a qualified solicitor and has previously worked in
Labour's legal department, swiftly deleted the post. But copies of the original
tweet were still being widely circulated on the internet.

Candidates are allowed to be present at the opening of postal votes, but they
have to adhere to strict confidentiality rules and are presented with a set of
guidelines reminding them of the requirements and penalties. The postal ballots
are opened face down but it is sometimes possible to see the front of the paper.

Bristol City Council reported the alleged breach to Avon and Somerset police
after Miss McCarthy raised it herself with the city's returning officer. Miss
McCarthy, considered one of Labour's rising stars, admitted: 'I was pretty silly
to do it. It was just thoughtless. I was being over-exuberant.'

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

ANDREW PIERCE

LENGTH: 1081 words


THE STORIES THE SPIN DOCTORS DON'T WANT YOU TO READ

WHY WON'T SAINT VINCE RETURN THE DODGY DONATION?

UNFORTUNATELY, it's not just the saintly Vince Cable's calculator that appears
to have been mislaid after the devastating assessment of his spending plans by
the Institute for Fiscal Studies. He now seems to have lost his moral compass as
well.

What else can we make of his answers, in a little noticed latenight TV
interview, over whether the Lib Dems had a moral duty to repay the 62.4 million
they received from a fraudster.

Michael Brown's donation in 2005 was the biggest in the party's history but, it
emerged a year or so later, it was not his money to give away. After skipping
bail, he was sentenced to seven years in prison when he was tried for fraud in
his absence.

On the Campaign Show on BBC News 24, Cable was repeatedly challenged by
presenter Jon Sopel about why the Lib Dems had not given the money back to
Brown's creditors.

Sopel: 'If you want to be an honest party and stand above everyone else in the
fray, shouldn't you give that money back?'

Cable: 'All the parties including ours have been damaged by dodgy donors. And
that's why we're arguing the whole system has to be cleared up.'

Sopel: 'Should you give that money back?'

Cable: 'If we were asked to give the money back by the Electoral Commission, we
would have given that money back. We have all been contaminated by this very
damaging system of party donations.'

Sopel: 'In view of that context now, give the money back. How about taking the
"moral lead?" ' Cable: 'No.' Sopel: 'Why not? Cable: 'We accepted the money in
good faith.'

Sopel: 'Take the high ground and say: "We are giving the money back." '

Cable: 'No, we don't think we should give it back because we were in no way
culpable, morally or in any other way. Other parties have accepted vast sums of
money from highly questionable people.'

And there was me thinking the whole basis of Nick Clegg's appeal to voters was
that the Lib Dems were different from the other two parties.

ACID ATTACK MODEL IS DRAGGED INTO ROW OVER CCTV

ALAN Johnson was accused of a smear last night after claiming women would be
less safe on the streets if the Tories won power.

The Home Secretary said a Conservative government wanted to reduce CCTV coverage
in public places.

The Home Secretary made the claim as model Katie Piper - the victim of an acid
attack - spoke out in favour of Labour's plans to spread the use of the cameras
to curb crime.

'Be in no doubt, and I must warn you about this, the Conservatives and the
Liberal Party are against the extension of CCTV we have proposed and delivered
in this country,' he said.

'Women like Katie and others would be in greater danger on our streets if we
reduce the level of CCTV and particularly if we restricted the police's ability
to use the DNA database.'

A Conservative spokesman said the claims were a smear and that the party had
never said it would reduce numbers of CCTV cameras. Instead it saw them as a
valuable tool in the fight against crime.

Miss Piper, who has had extensive surgery to rebuild her face, said the cameras
captured closeups of the attack. 'Without CCTV my attackers could have walked
free,' she said.

Mr Johnson's comments were backed by Gordon Brown, who also claimed that the
Tories would reduce police numbers.

Resurrecting Tony Blair's famous catchphrase, the Prime Minister said: 'We will
fund our police forces.'

QUOTE OF THE DAY

'AS LONG as I am Prime Minister I will not join the euro.' At last, a clear
commitment from David Cameron. But shouldn't that be 'If I am Prime Minister'?

PADDY POWER 3/1 on Sue Nye being the first Downing Street aide to lose their job
after being blamed by the PM for the debacle.

UNDERSTATEMENT OF THE DAY

'THIS was a regrettable incident,' Andy Burnham, the Health Secretary, after
Gordon Brown's ' bigotgate' moment.

ONE MORE BULLY BOY

THE notorious antics of the Bullingdon Club at Oxford are well known. But David
Cameron will not be the only former Bullingdonian appearing in tonight's
leaders' debate.

The venerable David Dimblebythe ringmaster in tonight's third and final TV
showdown, was also a member of the elite drinking fraternity long before
Cameron's membership caught the attention of the wider public.

LINING UP TO BATTLE BERCOW

YET another big defection from John Bercow's Tory ranks, as the Speaker fights
to save his own seat. Sir Nicholas Cosmo Bonsor, a patron of Buckingham
Conservative Association, has already switched sides to UKIP's Nigel Farage.

Now, it seems, the backwoods are stirring again in protest at Bercow's dalliance
with Labour and the fact he had to repay thousands of pounds in his
Parliamentary expenses.

Sir John Wells, who was Tory MP in Maidstone between 1959 and 1987, wandered
unannounced into Farage's campaign office. The 85-year- old said: 'Not sure what
I can do for you, but I am all yours for the day.'

And while we're on the Bercows, another thoughtful tweet from Sally, the
Speaker's Proustian wife. 'No, am NOT a lesbian myself,' she tweets. 'Married
with three kids. But I wouldn't mind being one when I grow up...'

When do you think that will be?

DON'T MENTION MOSCOW

SO DOES Gordon Brown know the game is already up? I only ask, because the PM has
accidentally let slip he does not expect to be Prime Minister after May 6.

He has turned down an invitation to attend Moscow's commemoration of the 65th
anniversary of the defeat of Nazi Germany. Brown 'declined the invitation' to
the Red Square parade, which is taking place three days after the election, even
though other leaders of the western world will be present. Perhaps the Kremlin
should invite David Cameron instead.

LOCK HIM UP!

PROOF that Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, is getting nervous.

In the first nine days after the election was called, the Schools Secretary
deigned to visit his Morley and Outwood constituency only twice. But with the
polls now pointing to a resounding raspberry for Labour, Balls has turned up on
his home patch no fewer than eight times.

With a majority of just under 9,000, Gordon Brown's favourite sidekick is
clinging on by his fingertips. The presence of David Cameron in the constituency
yesterday will fuel speculation even further that Balls could be the biggest
Cabinet casualty on election night.

LABOUR is presumably taking no chances of Gordon Brown making another howler on
the campaign trail. This is Jack Straw, the Justice Secretary, locking the gates
of 10 Downing Street -- presumably, once Mr Brown was safely back inside.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Adopting PR would push Britain to the Right;
Andrew Gilligan says the Tories' fears are misplaced-it's the Left that has most
to lose

BYLINE: Andrew Gilligan

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 644 words


In this election, Labour is kept going by a misplaced hope, and the Tories held
back by a misplaced fear. The misplaced hope is that, even if Labour should
crater to third place, it can still stay in power through some contorted
combination of Britain's mad electoral system, a change of leader and a Lib Dem
deal.

There would then, runs the script, be electoral reform, a "progressive
alliance", and the Right would be locked out for ever. The Tories' misplaced
fear, and the reason they so cling to first-past-the-post, is exactly the same.

Forget the short-term obstacles to such a deal. Forget the difficulty of Mr
Clegg propping up a party which polls say will come third. Leave aside the
prospect of a second unelected prime minister who has taken no part in the
leaders' debates. Leave aside the likely outrage of a country which voted for
change and got, via some backroom arrangement, most of the same old faces. Let
us examine instead the belief on all sides that electoral reform favours the
Left. It almost certainly isn't true.

A more proportional electoral system is far more likely to tug Britain to
starboard. All three major parties are run by a broadly liberal elite. But PR
would massively empower the populist Right.

On immigration, on free-market economics, and to some extent on foreign policy,
the main parties agree with each other more than they've done for generations.
Enormous numbers of voters, however, disagree with the elite, liberal consensus
- and PR would, for the first time, give them representation in Parliament.

Theoretically, I suppose, a populist Left-wing party could sweep up these
unrepresented millions. But the populist Left - Respect and the Greens - is
small and niche compared with the populist Right, as represented by Ukip and the
BNP. Nor does the Left have a crowd-pleasing line on immigration. In contrast,
on Afghanistan (troops out now) and free-market capitalism (they don't like it
much) the BNP has essentially the same policies as Respect. A hundred Ukip and
BNP MPs would be a force that both Tories and Labour would have to acknowledge.
Ukip, at least, could end up in a coalition. Even if it didn't, it would almost
certainly pull the Tories to the Right. But since many of its MPs would be
elected from previously Labour areas, it could pull Labour to the Right, too.

Then there's the question about what, under PR, would happen to Labour. Would
Old and New part ways? Would the Blairites join with the Lib Dems? The Lib Dems
themselves cannot safely be described as a Left-wing party. Where they hold the
balance of power in local government, they have mostly chosen the Tories. Even
in "progressive" London, the Lib Dem second preferences in the last mayoral
election split almost equally between Tories and Labour.

The Tories, of course, would be diminished by PR. They almost certainly wouldn't
be able to govern alone. But no one else would, either. The Tories' core vote,
financial and organisational strength would leave them wellplaced to remain the
largest single party. They have less to fear from electoral reform than they
think.

Even if Mr Clegg can be strung along for a few years, some sort of change is
starting to feel inevitable. In a three-party system, the credibility of
single-party rule is drawing to an end. The difference between the government
people vote for and the government they get has been a cause of disillusion.

In the tough times ahead, a coalition might be more stable, more legitimate and
better able to take hard decisions than a singleparty government elected to a
tiny Commons majority with an even tinier base of popular support.

So I back electoral reform, and I think it's right in itself. But it will shake
the kaleidoscope, and I don't think we liberals have quite realised where it
will take us.

Comment on Andrew Gilligan's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Telegraph jury Cameron starts to sparkle at last

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 535 words


Relve Spread Age: 30 Lives: With friends Job: Graduate student Constituency:
Battersea Last time: Labour This time: Undecided Cameron was the strongest -
good on banks, although dodged questions like on inheritance tax. Clegg was
playing the middleman - he needs to concentrate on promoting Lib Dem policies.
Brown always seems strong on the financial sector - but he seems stressed and
tired.

Simon Butterfield Age: 42 Lives: With partner Job: Director of management
consultancy Constituency: Warwick and Leamington Last time: Conservative This
time: Conservative/Liberal Democrat Nick Clegg seemed out of his comfort zone in
the area of economics. On the immigration issue, he was outmanoeuvred. Overall,
David Cameron showed more prime ministerial presence than the other two leaders.

Melissa Newman Age: 52 Lives: With husband and three children Job: Housewife
Constituency: Guildford Last time: Conservative This time: Probably Conservative
It was back to the traditional battle between Labour and Conservatives, Gordon
Brown attacking David Cameron. None of the leaders has convinced me. Brown has
nothing new to offer. Cameron redeemed himself after a shaky first debate.

David Pagan Age: 44 Lives: With wife and two children Job: Finance manager
Constituency: Solihull Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably Lib Dem
David Cameron was clearly very uncomfortable during the discussion on
inheritance tax. Nick Clegg and Gordon Brown both criticised him well for giving
tax breaks to the richest during bad economic times. He didn't have a good
enough comeback for that one. But in general there were no real killer blows.

Clifford Forsyth Age: 67 Lives: with wife. Has two sons Job: retired IT
technician Constituency: Harrow West Last time: Conservative This time: probably
Ukip Cameron won by a mile tonight - he was really on fire. Clegg was
floundering between the other two, not adding much at all. Brown was groaning
out the same old mantra about inheritance tax, NI contributions and so on, just
criticising the others.

Shelly Asquith Age: 19 Lives: With parents Job: Marketing assistant
Constituency: Chelmsford Last time: Not eligible This time: Labour Gordon Brown
came out strongest when speaking of the economy. Clegg's banking tax and bonus
cap seem dangerous. It risks big businesses leaving the UK. Cameron didn't do a
very good job of dismissing the idea that his interests lie with the very rich.

Peter Wood Age: 57 Lives: With wife and two daughters Job: Economic consultant
Constituency: Edinburgh South Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative Economics is Gordon Brown's strength and it showed. Clegg has no
understanding of it at all, he was utterly unconvincing. Cameron was only a
little better. He said nothing of substance beyond attacking the NI rise.

Vilma McAdam Age: 66 Lives: With husband Job: Retired local government official
Constituency: Aberdeen South Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably
Liberal Democrat All three leaders performed well, but I did get awfully fed up
with Cameron and Brown continually trying to outdo the other through political
pointscoring - nothing annoys the public more than that. I think Nick Clegg
performed best.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Edina Wright: asked the party leaders how they would tackle the high
tax burdens

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The more they argue, the more they sound the same;
Election 2010 Analysis

BYLINE: Edmund Conway

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1007 words


FINALLY, the message is sinking in. This month, the politicians have done all
they can to change the subject; to avoid spelling out the gory details of their
spending plans. Perhaps it was the Institute for Fiscal Studies' attack on all
their plans this week, perhaps the Greek crisis or perhaps the very first
question: "There are going to be spending cuts. Why can't you be honest and tell
us?" But for a brief moment at the very start the politicians agreed on one
thing: there will be cuts; it will be tough.

The agreement didn't stop there. All three seemed to have constructed their
initial statements from the same pool of aspirations, so we heard "difficult
decisions", "change", "must start manufacturing things again", "better value
from public services" and "bank levy". The more one examines the policies, the
less difference there seems to be.

This is a bit unfair: the parties undoubtedly stand for some things: the Tories
for less state intervention, more personal responsibility; Labour firmly behind
the idea that the Government knows best; the Lib Dems, well, pass.

But, as has been the case throughout the campaign, David Cameron and Gordon
Brown struggled to distinguish their policies from one another. Once again, they
fixated on the National Insurance row, disregarding the fact that voters can see
clearly now that £6billion makes marginal difference in comparison to the vast
cuts needed on the national debt, which is fast approaching £1,000 billion.

It was Nick Clegg who managed to distinguish himself as the more clear-sighted
candidate - perhaps because he does have a more radical plan to overhaul the tax
system.

Mr Cameron was shrewd to stress that he would never join the euro, but his swipe
at Mr Clegg for apparently supporting the single currency was a little cheap.
Ultimately Brown deserves the kudos for preventing Tony Blair from forcing
Britain into the currency.

For a moment, it looked as if Mr Cameron had waived the chance to address Mr
Brown's record, but eventually he got round to it: 13 years of economic
mismanagement; a fi-nancial system whose most notorious figure - Sir Fred
Goodwin - was knighted by Labour; public finances which leave Britain at serious
risk of a fiscal crisis. Which brings us back to cuts. Having admitted the cuts
would be tough, they all forgot to elaborate on their plans in the rest of the
debate.

So here's a reminder: the IFS believes the cuts the parties are gesticulating
towards would at best be as deep as those inflicted on Britain under the
International Monetary Fund in the 1970s. Mervyn King, the Bank of England
governor, believes the winner of the election could find themselves catapulted
out of power for a generation after trying to impose said cuts.

Which begs the question, why do they want the job?

Telegraph jury Cameron starts to sparkle at last

Relve Spread Age: 30 Lives: With friends Job: Graduate student Constituency:
Battersea Last time: Labour This time: Undecided Cameron was the strongest -
good on banks, although dodged questions like on inheritance tax. Clegg was
playing the middleman - he needs to concentrate on promoting Lib Dem policies.
Brown always seems strong on the financial sector - but he seems stressed and
tired.

Simon Butterfield Age: 42 Lives: With partner Job: Director of management
consultancy Constituency: Warwick and Leamington Last time: Conservative This
time: Conservative/Liberal Democrat Nick Clegg seemed out of his comfort zone in
the area of economics. On the immigration issue, he was outmanoeuvred. Overall,
David Cameron showed more prime ministerial presence than the other two leaders.

Melissa Newman Age: 52 Lives: With husband and three children Job: Housewife
Constituency: Guildford Last time: Conservative This time: Probably Conservative
It was back to the traditional battle between Labour and Conservatives, Gordon
Brown attacking David Cameron. None of the leaders has convinced me. Brown has
nothing new to offer. Cameron redeemed himself after a shaky first debate.

David Pagan Age: 44 Lives: With wife and two children Job: Finance manager
Constituency: Solihull Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably Lib Dem
David Cameron was clearly very uncomfortable during the discussion on
inheritance tax. Nick Clegg and Gordon Brown both criticised him well for giving
tax breaks to the richest during bad economic times. He didn't have a good
enough comeback for that one. But in general there were no real killer blows.

Clifford Forsyth Age: 67 Lives: with wife. Has two sons Job: retired IT
technician Constituency: Harrow West Last time: Conservative This time: probably
Ukip Cameron won by a mile tonight - he was really on fire. Clegg was
floundering between the other two, not adding much at all. Brown was groaning
out the same old mantra about inheritance tax, NI contributions and so on, just
criticising the others.

Shelly Asquith Age: 19 Lives: With parents Job: Marketing assistant
Constituency: Chelmsford Last time: Not eligible This time: Labour Gordon Brown
came out strongest when speaking of the economy. Clegg's banking tax and bonus
cap seem dangerous. It risks big businesses leaving the UK. Cameron didn't do a
very good job of dismissing the idea that his interests lie with the very rich.

Peter Wood Age: 57 Lives: With wife and two daughters Job: Economic consultant
Constituency: Edinburgh South Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative Economics is Gordon Brown's strength and it showed. Clegg has no
understanding of it at all, he was utterly unconvincing. Cameron was only a
little better. He said nothing of substance beyond attacking the NI rise.

Vilma McAdam Age: 66 Lives: With husband Job: Retired local government official
Constituency: Aberdeen South Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably
Liberal Democrat All three leaders performed well, but I did get awfully fed up
with Cameron and Brown continually trying to outdo the other through political
pointscoring - nothing annoys the public more than that. I think Nick Clegg
performed best.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Adina Wright: asked the party leaders how they would tackle the high
tax burdens

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Our voting system is still best by far

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 396 words


Let me tell you something deeply boring. the government of Belgium is about to
fall. Again. I mention this only because in all the reports that leave one
consumed with ennui I spotted the phrase: "Pullout of the five-party ruling
coalition and just hours later Mr Leterme resigned." How many parties? Call this
loony DIY a government? What electoral system do they use over there? Of course,
proportional representation or PR.

North of chaotic Belgium lies Holland. Here an ultra-Right winger called Geert
Wilders may well become premier in June. He makes our Nick Griffin look like
Mary Poppins. their voting system? Of course, PR.

everywhere you look this voting system that purports to promise so much in
reality delivers coalitions of bone-china fragility or the rise and rise of the
extremists. And over here this is exactly the system that the Clegglet is
insisting will be the price of any co-operation from him in a coalition
government should we come to that disaster next Friday.

So, at the risk of causing you to choke on the toast soldiers, consider this.

enough British voters, sickened by the sleaze and lies, duped into believing the
Lib Dems are cleaner (they're not) split the national vote almost equally three
ways.

W ItHIN hours half a dozen of Labour's grey suits visit Gordon Brown with a gift
of a loaded revolver and inside a day he has gone. At Clegg's insistence the
rushed-through successor is PRfavouring David Miliband. A coalition is created
and it is Miliband who goes to the Palace to be asked to form a government. By
agreement its first enacted law is to introduce PR.

In four years we have the next election, our first under the new system. the day
after polling the green benches welcome a cohort from UKIP and a smaller one
from the BNP. Another group is from the Greens. Plus two blocs from the newly
split tory Party and two from the equally split (Marxist Left and Blairite
Right) old Labour Party. Plus the Lib Dems who would like to govern but need
four partners for a working coalition and to that nightmare mix we can add a
dozen weirdo Independents.

A crazy scenario? No, all the ingredients of that recipe are staring us in the
face. And it would leave a silver-haired queen at Windsor weeping for the
oncegreat country we were. Let's stick to what we know. One man in Downing
Street with a working majority. Gordon Brown or David Cameron.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Diary: A hot new presenter for a souped up leaders' debate? That'd be pukka,
mate

BYLINE: Stephen Bates

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 654 words


?As we all recover from the last leaders' debate this morning (how was it for
you?) comes word of an intriguing bid from Channel 4 to host one of the
programmes. As you might expect, the channel that brings you Supersize Vs
Superskinny, Relocation, Relocation and Gordon's Kitchen Nightmares apparently
had some innovative ideas which were, alas, unavailing. Not for them the
sober-sided presentation of a David Dimbleby or Adam Boulton, oh no - they'd
thought of just the man to chair. Here's Jon Snow, esteemed presenter of Channel
4 News, talking to the Guardian's Mike White on a podcast: "Oh, you bet we
wanted it. My God we pushed. We wanted Jamie Oliver to do it." Perhaps just as
well. We wouldn't have wanted Oliver (pictured) to refer to the leaders as Bish,
Bash and Bosh, now would we? Don't think Snow's bitter: "I am not sure I am a
good man to function with 76 rules."

?Touching faith in humanity award: and, amazingly, it's to a Tory: Marcus
Harrington, chairman of the West Bergholt Conservatives in Essex, whose roadside
poster of candidate Bernard Jenkin has been defaced in time-honoured fashion by
some anonymous miscreant. Jenkin now bears a large pair of spectacles and has
blood dripping from fangs. Taped to the poster is the polite request: "If you
are the person who defaced this placard please identify yourself to me as
Bernard Jenkin and I believe it is important to be responsible for one's
actions. Do you?" That's the spirit.

?No such wishy-washy liberalism however from Philip Davies, seeking to resume
his career as Tory MP for Shipley, who proudly announces that a Tory government
will reduce immigration by 75% and have a proper border police force.
Journalists have been trying to extract such a figure without success from Tory
spokesmen for weeks, and there it is in the candidate's election address all the
time. Davies, son of Peter, the English Democrat mayor of Doncaster, has a track
record for outspokenness, being agin Europe, climate change, gay rights, the
minimum wage and sex education and proudly quotes an encomium from Labour's
Graham Allen on his leaflet: "It's a great pleasure to hear (Davies), who is
known in the house for speaking his mind and being forthright, and long may that
continue." No word whether Allen was being satirical.

?Here's Terry Durrance, Ukip's candidate in Southport, revealing why he's been
absent from the campaign trail recently. He was in Poland, having his teeth
fixed. "I went . . . because the treatments there are considerably cheaper than
in the UK. Choosing to get my teeth done (there) doesn't have anything to do
with Ukip policies. I don't mind going to another country in the EU if that
means getting a fairer deal," he told the local Champion newspaper. How wise to
get them sorted before we pull out altogether.

?Lucy Stephenson, 14, writes from Derbyshire that she attends a school where
they have no uniform, but has still been banned from wearing the Guardian
T-shirt bearing the message "Step outside Posh Boy". If she does it again she'll
be sent home because it is offensive and politically biased. "This is
ridiculously unfair, as I bought it purposefully for school," writes Lucy
fervently. Huh! Teachers, eh?

?Gordon Brown may think he's got problems, but at least he's not Troy Buswell,
treasurer of Western Australia. Here's a headline from the Sydney Morning Herald
which goes some way to explaining things: "Chair-sniffing treasurer apologises
for affair". This, amazingly, relates to an earlier incident after which Buswell
had to resign as the state's Liberal party leader. Now he's had to apologise for
having an affair with a Green party MP. "I did not want this matter to become
public. I did not think through the consequences of my actions . . . I have made
mistakes and errors," he said, but doesn't think he needs to resign this time.
So there's always someone worse off than yourself, Gordon.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: Tunbridge Wells: Town of letters likely to vote true blue - not
disgusted

BYLINE: Stephen Bates

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 613 words


Royal Tunbridge Wells, nestling in the lush hinterland of rural Kent, is not the
sort of place where you are ever likely to get a close-fought election. It's a
prosperous suburban town in the English heartlands, where the Tories are never
really challenged and you might as well weigh the majority. Its residents have
been famously disgusted for decades and, judging by the letters in the local
press, they still are. Basildon Bond would go out of business if the internet
thingy really caught on.

"You take the people of Tunbridge Wells for granted at your peril," mused Greg
Clark, the town's defending MP and Tory candidate, peering out at the audience
of several hundred voters at a hustings organised by the local paper in the
Trinity theatre this week. "It is an area of great letter writers. I had one of
the biggest postbags of any MP."

Clark, the Tories' environment spokesman, is personable, bright, suave and
reasonable, and comprehensive school educated (and PhD), unlike his predecessors
Sir Patrick Mayhew and the former Asda boss Archie Norman.

He, like them, does not face daunting opposition: a shrill teacher called David
Hallas for the Liberal Democrats and a glum south London telecoms engineer
called Gary Heather for Labour, neither of whom should give up their day jobs.

The paper's editor, Ian Read, had ruthlessly excluded the other four candidates
- from the Green party, Ukip, BNP and a Ukip offshoot called the Popular
Alliance - on the grounds that they would make the debate unwieldy. That left
the Greens' Hazel Dawe and Ukip's Victor Webb and his bulldog to picket the
meeting, politely of course.

Their disgruntlement elicited sympathetic clucks from the middle-aged,
middle-class, entirely white audience whose applications for tickets - and
questions - had been vetted by the newspaper. As with the party leaders'
television debates, no applause or cheering was allowed, although there was the
odd outburst of muttering.

What would the candidates do about local crime? "There will be no hoodie-hugging
on our watch!" shouted Hallas. How would they prevent funds being targeted away
from the south-east to Labour-supporting areas, someone asked, provoking
variations on the theme from all three that other areas might just need the
money more, but Tunbridge Wells should fight its corner.

A question on underage drinking elicited a rambling reply from Heather like the
song about the man who waters the workers' beer: "We get a situation where the
beer industry are making sure those products are consumed . . . I'm not saying
people shouldn't have the right to drink alcohol."

And school exclusions? Not, as you might imagine, a questioner wanting more of
them, but one concerned about the lack of provision for excluded pupils - to
which Clark answered: "You have to respect the authority of the head, but then
descend on that boy or girl, put your arm around them and pile on the
intervention to get them back in the mainstream." So hoodie-hugging from the
Tory, but not the Lib Dem.

Remarkably, there were no questions on Europe, immigration, bankers' bonuses or
a hung parliament. Clark sounded by some way the most liberal, as perhaps only a
candidate sitting on a 9,988 majority can. "I would never vote to bring back
hanging," he said.

If not entirely disgusted, the audience in this slice of middle England was not
entirely gusted either. "If the Lib Dems win here next week I'll run through the
Pantiles naked," said one questioner.

"I am sure the time will come for other parties," said Clark smoothly, "But I
hope it's our night on Thursday."

Captions:

Greg Clark, defending Tory MP for Tunbridge Wells: 'I had one of the biggest
postbags of any MP'

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Fact File UK: Part Seven: Politics: What did your MP claim in expenses?

SECTION: GUARDIAN NEWSPRINT SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 3944 words


>=The furore over MPs' expenses last year forced senior politicians to resign -
including the first Speaker to do so for 400 years. Each year Parliament
publishes expenses claims for every member. These are the full figures for
2008/09.

MPs standing down this year are marked in blue.

MP, Constituency, 2nd home allowance, Travel, Communications, Claimed 08-09,
%Change on 07-08

Diane Abbott Lab Hackney N & Stoke Newington £0 £234 £12,233 £142,463 8%

Gerry Adams Sinn Fein West Belfast £21,600 £2,398 £0 £142,632 3%

Adam Afriyie &#9632; Windsor £0 £0 £0 £124,250 19%

Nick Ainger &#9632; Carmarthen W £11,139 £9,065 £7,154 £140,892 4%

& Pembrokeshire S

Robert Ainsworth &#9632; Coventry NE £20,304 £5,526 £10,379 £146,329 9%

Peter Ainsworth &#9632; Surrey E £10,265 £2,341 £8,713 £130,769 6%

Danny Alexander &#9632; Inverness, Nairn, £21,980 £32,949 £15,684 £187,625 11%

Badenoch & Strathspey

Douglas Alexander &#9632; Paisley & £10,262 £11,675 £8,487 £118,737 11%

Renfrewshire S

Graham Allen &#9632; Nottingham N £23,935 £16,903 £10,176 £183,487 7%

David Amess &#9632; Southend W £19,968 £6,762 £11,776 £137,292 0%

Michael Ancram &#9632; Devizes £10,766 £10,007 £0 £134,445 1%

David Anderson &#9632; Blaydon £22,891 £14,066 £9,668 £157,339 0%

Janet Anderson &#9632; Rossendale & Darwen £24,006 £14,632 £9,710 £174,861 1%

James Arbuthnot &#9632; Hampshire NE £24,006 £4,566 £9,057 £146,043 0%

Hilary Armstrong &#9632; Durham NW £8,970 £17,032 £11,818 £147,544 7%

Charlotte Atkins &#9632; Staffordshire Moorlands £18,194 £11,711 £10,950
£169,684 3%

Peter Atkinson &#9632; Hexham £24,006 £13,050 £5,115 £154,295 3%

Ian Austin &#9632; Dudley N £23,262 £10,330 £11,917 £166,424 7%

John Austin &#9632; Erith & Thamesmead £21,395 £1,439 £6,939 £153,920 6%

Richard Bacon &#9632; Norfolk S £24,006 £8,166 £7,145 £166,116 13%

Adrian Bailey &#9632; West Bromwich W £23,311 £6,441 £1,665 £154,451 1%

Vera Baird &#9632; Redcar £15,425 £10,024 £4,526 £149,043 2%

Norman Baker &#9632; Lewes £22,133 £6,033 £9,159 £165,983 9%

Tony Baldry &#9632; Banbury £7,829 £4,559 £21,856 £145,190 1%

Ed Balls &#9632; Normanton £11,840 £13,705 £12,147 £159,784 3%

Gordon Banks &#9632; Ochil & S Perthshire £21,148 £17,125 £8,839 £173,466 1%

Gregory Barker &#9632; Bexhill & Battle £22,880 £6,321 £10,399 £163,799 2%

Celia Barlow &#9632; Hove £0 £6,135 £15,407 £141,463 5%

John Baron &#9632; Billericay £18,748 £2,945 £12,023 £156,332 0%

John Barrett &#9632; Edinburgh W £23,377 £13,767 £13,016 £168,195 9%

Kevin Barron &#9632; Rother Valley £24,006 £6,718 £6,714 £137,444 11%

John Battle &#9632; Leeds W £9,995 £12,027 £9,124 £163,632 5%

Hugh Bayley &#9632; City of York £24,006 £16,752 £6,666 £176,235 8%

Margaret Beckett &#9632; Derby S £7,852 £619 £0 £132,056 4%

Anne Begg &#9632; Aberdeen S £22,579 £16,026 £10,631 £168,578 1%

Alan Beith &#9632; Berwick-upon-Tweed £13,459 £12,207 £15,490 £153,657 1%

Henry Bellingham &#9632; Norfolk NW £20,951 £6,995 £50 £145,230 3%

Stuart Bell &#9632; Middlesbrough £23,368 £20,340 £8,764 £138,476 3%

Hilary Benn &#9632; Leeds Ctl £10,446 £11,504 £13,155 £124,391 20%

Joseph Benton &#9632; Bootle £7,630 £8,851 £0 £121,152 8%

Richard Benyon &#9632; Newbury £0 £3,511 £9,086 £119,588 13%

John Bercow &#9632; Buckingham £21,987 £4,749 £9,372 £86,344 17%

Paul Beresford &#9632; Mole Valley £0 £4,215 £11,649 £125,105 3%

Roger Berry &#9632; Kingswood £14,552 £5,548 £8,742 £144,008 3%

Clive Betts &#9632; Sheffield Attercliffe £22,105 £11,054 £10,708 £169,734 4%

Brian Binley &#9632; Northampton S £21,100 £4,589 £11,006 £144,099 1%

Liz Blackman &#9632; Erewash £21,680 £5,773 £10,346 £167,284 8%

Hazel Blears &#9632; Salford £17,352 £17,148 £11,554 £153,380 7%

Bob Blizzard &#9632; Waveney £22,931 £5,845 £12,327 £168,384 7%

Crispin Blunt &#9632; Reigate £23,977 £3,262 £1,473 £147,587 5%

David Blunkett &#9632; Sheffield Brightside £21,363 £4,040 £10,470 £163,298 11%

Peter Bone &#9632; Wellingborough £22,447 £6,328 £10,245 £168,969 6%

David Borrow &#9632; Ribble S £23,605 £10,353 £10,400 £172,171 0%

Tim Boswell &#9632; Daventry £4,727 £2,625 £4,570 £121,320 8%

Peter Bottomley &#9632; Worthing W £11,698 £3,992 £1,839 £132,747 5%

Ben Bradshaw &#9632; Exeter £18,144 £4,514 £3,908 £138,107 2%

Graham Brady &#9632; Altrincham & Sale W £23,821 £9,870 £0 £144,998 0%

Tom Brake &#9632; Carshalton & Wallington £0 £2,232 £10,226 £141,537 9%

Julian Brazier &#9632; Canterbury £18,917 £4,880 £4,225 £144,453 7%

Colin Breed &#9632; Cornwall S E £16,816 £9,770 £10,115 £145,201 5%

Kevin Brennan &#9632; Cardiff W £23,312 £10,805 £11,454 £132,130 4%

James Brokenshire &#9632; Hornchurch £151 £2,253 £2,871 £112,946 3%

Annette Brooke &#9632; Dorset Mid & Poole N £16,605 £3,681 £9,023 £141,504 6%

Angela Browning &#9632; Tiverton & Honiton £23,978 £6,890 £17 £147,806 4%

Des Browne &#9632; Kilmarnock & Loudoun £19,996 £12,762 £2,604 £150,083 2%

Gordon Brown &#9632; Kirkcaldy & Cowdenbeath £9,492 £13,023 £1,887 £136,919 10%

Jeremy Browne &#9632; Taunton £21,376 £8,960 £9,684 £174,102 8%

Lyn Brown &#9632; West Ham £21,595 £474 £7,053 £156,160 11%

Nicholas Brown &#9632; Newcastle upon £15,455 £11,256 £12,466 £149,562 10%

Tyne E & Wallsend

Russell Brown &#9632; Dumfries & Galloway £19,522 £13,541 £10,423 £164,030 1%

Malcolm Bruce &#9632; Gordon £22,816 £21,232 £14,997 £178,231 4%

Chris Bryant &#9632; Rhondda £23,367 £12,958 £7,759 £159,835 6%

Karen Buck &#9632; Regent's Park & £0 £948 £9,965 £141,467 6%

Kensington N

Richard Burden &#9632; Birmingham Northfield £14,988 £11,636 £8,366 £170,102 4%

Colin Burgon &#9632; Elmet £22,600 £9,670 £4,289 £157,375 0%

Andy Burnham &#9632; Leigh £12,301 £10,454 £993 £135,805 6%

Simon Burns &#9632; Chelmsford W £15,949 £4,708 £7,659 £135,409 0%

David Burrowes &#9632; Enfield Southgate £0 £3,094 £6,621 £139,547 10%

Paul Burstow &#9632; Sutton & Cheam £0 £2,325 £16,158 £135,047 5%

Alastair Burt &#9632; NE Bedfordshire £23,786 £7,612 £8,603 £158,725 %

Lorely Burt &#9632; Solihull £21,307 £5,734 £10,232 £163,402 10%

Dawn Butler &#9632; Brent S £5,976 £0 £12,519 £134,005 12%

John Butterfill &#9632; Bournemouth W £18,882 £5,511 £297 £129,694 2%

Stephen Byers &#9632; Tyneside N £8,654 £15,079 £6,008 £112,466 10%

Liam Byrne &#9632; Birmingham Hodge Hill £22,963 £6,404 £10,271 £168,725 3%

Vince Cable &#9632; Twickenham £0 £2,740 £11,086 £141,355 12%

Richard Caborn &#9632; Sheffield Ctl £19,621 £19,383 £6,834 £161,349 3%

David Cairns &#9632; Inverclyde £16,034 £14,669 £9,141 £138,065 5%

David Cameron &#9632; Witney £20,240 £1,562 £1,318 £152,179 2%

Alan Campbell &#9632; Tynemouth £16,887 £17,034 £13,808 £162,267 2%

Gregory Campbell &#9633; E Londonderry £16,675 £20,298 £525 £123,353 9%

Menzies Campbell &#9632; Fife NE £15,041 £18,099 £9,072 £160,971 2%

Ronnie Campbell &#9632; Blyth Valley £23,854 £12,037 £10,437 £157,792 2%

Alistair Carmichael &#9632; Orkney & Shetland £19,372 £35,472 £2,174 £157,650
11%

Douglas Carswell &#9632; Harwich £24,006 £6,978 £13,882 £163,575 7%

William Cash &#9632; Stone £19,773 £11,593 £8,675 £140,827 2%

Martin Caton &#9632; Gower £8,405 £6,893 £8,726 £132,658 1%

Ian Cawsey &#9632; Brigg & Goole £3,875 £14,709 £8,317 £132,411 17%

Colin Challen &#9632; Morley & Rothwell £15,976 £19,870 £103 £160,005 9%

Ben Chapman &#9632; Wirral S £22,260 £14,058 £13,123 £166,935 1%

David Chaytor &#9632; Bury N £24,006 £11,512 £11,103 £181,334 16%

Christopher Chope &#9632; Christchurch £19,934 £5,696 £0 £114,834 16%

James Clappison &#9632; Hertsmere £9,310 £8,296 £12,459 £148,131 1%

Michael Clapham &#9632; Barnsley W & Penistone £22,005 £7,523 £885 £107,517 1%

Charles Clarke &#9632; Norwich S £23,332 £9,513 £10,143 £171,339 6%

Greg Clark &#9632; Tunbridge Wells £3,000 £3,834 £5,949 £138,108 5%

Katy Clark &#9632; Ayrshire N & Arran £17,700 £11,986 £9,023 £156,938 0%

Kenneth Clarke &#9632; Rushcliffe £14,895 £5,916 £2,606 £128,125 4%

Paul Clark &#9632; Gillingham £19,862 £3,373 £10,414 £152,685 6%

Tom Clarke &#9632; Coatbridge, £12,905 £12,788 £11,979 £156,976 1%

Chryston & Bellshill

Nick Clegg &#9632; Sheffield Hallam £17,081 £5,766 £4,702 £148,064 1%

David Clelland &#9632; Tyne Bridge £17,629 £21,834 £6,502 £155,141 1%

Geoffrey &#9632; Cotswold £24,006 £4,940 £10,974 £145,719 6%

Clifton-Brown

Ann Clwyd &#9632; Cynon Valley £21,201 £7,265 £3,527 £133,417 7%

Vernon Coaker &#9632; Gedling £8,944 £9,005 £9,618 £147,783 1%

Ann Coffey &#9632; Stockport £15,663 £8,391 £10,839 £136,082 9%

Harry Cohen &#9632; Leyton & Wanstead £23,961 £2,677 £8,315 £157,952 2%

Michael Connarty &#9632; Linlithgow & Falkirk E £23,581 £27,162 £13,705 £187,032
2%

Derek Conway &#9675; Old Bexley & Sidcup £23,994 £6,824 £9,538 £140,917 8%

Frank Cook &#9632; Stockton N £23,700 £17,719 £10,269 £156,389 2%

Rosie Cooper &#9632; Lancashire W £20,339 £11,756 £10,393 £155,857 8%

Yvette Cooper &#9632; Pontefract & Castleford £11,840 £16,195 £10,672 £163,929
7%

Jeremy Corbyn &#9632; Islington N £0 £934 £4,193 £132,809 3%

Patrick Cormack &#9632; Staffordshire S £23,530 £5,724 £127 £142,836 4%

Jim Cousins &#9632; Newcastle upon Tyne Ctl £8,063 £11,912 £6,147 £156,486 9%

Geoffrey Cox &#9632; Devon W & Torridge £23,000 £11,900 £11,262 £165,377 14%

Stephen Crabb &#9632; Preseli Pembrokeshire £20,371 £13,575 £10,118 £153,604 3%

David Crausby &#9632; Bolton NE £21,713 £10,466 £8,183 £158,946 7%

Mary Creagh &#9632; Wakefield £21,955 £10,353 £10,752 £166,739 17%

Jon Cruddas &#9632; Dagenham £23,647 £1,744 £9,769 £164,019 13%

Ann Cryer &#9632; Keighley £19,620 £10,870 £4,811 £155,193 2%

John Cummings &#9632; Easington £19,460 £22,937 £0 £166,388 7%

Jim Cunningham &#9632; Coventry S £16,678 £2,239 £3,870 £104,996 7%

Tony Cunningham &#9632; Workington £14,744 £19,231 £636 £121,042 5%

David Curry &#9632; Skipton & Ripon £12,071 £9,098 £154 £139,990 6%

Claire &#9632; Crosby £23,469 £9,338 £5,380 £166,414 0%

Curtis-Thomas

Alistair Darling &#9632; Edinburgh S W £10,626 £15,844 £9,960 £148,444 2%

Edward Davey &#9632; Kingston & Surbiton £0 £2,299 £10,349 £144,188 3%

Dai Davies &#9675; Blaenau Gwent £22,442 £4,648 £353 £127,683 7%

David Davis &#9632; Haltemprice & Howden £18,114 £9,065 £3,641 £134,553 5%

David T.&#8202;C. Davies &#9632; Monmouth £23,816 £15,929 £20,557 £165,397 3%

Ian Davidson &#9632; Glasgow S W £23,867 £16,074 £11,918 £171,245 1%

Philip Davies &#9632; Shipley £23,886 £12,491 £14,931 £171,258 6%

Quentin Davies &#9632; Grantham & Stamford £24,006 £12,689 £0 £141,596 1%

Wayne David &#9632; Caerphilly £14,243 £11,689 £4,569 £152,413 2%

Janet Dean &#9632; Burton £15,610 £4,858 £10,443 £139,906 6%

John Denham &#9632; Southampton Itchen £23,806 £4,134 £9,713 £157,114 2%

Jim Devine &#9632; Livingston £23,659 £14,037 £10,209 £175,749 4%

Parmjit Dhanda &#9632; Gloucester £17,093 £4,602 £11,632 £161,337 5%

Andrew Dismore &#9632; Hendon £2,927 £5,119 £10,388 £146,769 7%

Jonathan Djanogly &#9632; Huntingdon £20,104 £5,687 £7,102 £155,060 4%

Jim Dobbin &#9632; Heywood & Middleton £4,367 £7,318 £4,938 £139,255 5%

Frank Dobson &#9632; Holborn & St Pancras £0 £72 £10,394 £127,978 31%

Nigel Dodds &#9633; N Belfast £22,436 £20,932 £6,183 £152,483 11%

Pat Doherty &#9632; W Tyrone £21,600 £2,140 £0 £125,264 8%

Jeffrey Donaldson &#9633; Lagan Valley £13,461 £20,633 £6,436 £153,487 5%

Brian Donohoe &#9632; Ayrshire Ctl £23,996 £24,415 £9,714 £181,650 11%

Frank Doran &#9632; Aberdeen N £23,789 £24,161 £10,284 £182,139 6%

Nadine Dorries &#9632; Bedfordshire Mid £23,332 £8,460 £9,715 £158,530 4%

Stephen Dorrell &#9632; Charnwood £16,458 £6,352 £387 £96,087 24%

Jim Dowd &#9632; Lewisham W £0 £2,843 £8,518 £139,458 6%

David Drew &#9632; Stroud £13,059 £6,466 £3,591 £139,460 5%

James Duddridge &#9632; Rochford & Southend E £23,499 £4,235 £7,391 £161,260 1%

Alan Duncan &#9632; Rutland & Melton £23,919 £8,500 £7,835 £162,615 10%

Iain Duncan Smith &#9632; Chingford & Woodford Green £0 £3,530 £2,595 £98,077
13%

Philip Dunne &#9632; Ludlow £0 £7,755 £14,387 £139,231 4%

Mark Durkan &#9633; Foyle £18,809 £14,200 £8,854 £158,517 6%

Angela Eagle &#9632; Wallasey £7,484 £9,196 £10,403 £157,415 12%

Maria Eagle &#9632; Liverpool Garston £14,368 £10,611 £8,957 £158,434 3%

Clive Efford &#9632; Eltham £0 £1,798 £12,223 £140,966 9%

Louise Ellman &#9632; Liverpool Riverside £23,592 £15,855 £7,961 £173,164 6%

Tobias Ellwood &#9632; Bournemouth E £23,594 £7,799 £4,128 £133,851 3%

Natascha Engel &#9632; Derbyshire NE £17,264 £7,167 £5,785 £146,678 2%

Jeff Ennis &#9632; Barnsley E & Mexborough £14,242 £10,762 £1,319 £114,749 5%

Bill Etherington &#9632; Sunderland N £20,612 £16,287 £0 £155,469 1%

Nigel Evans &#9632; Ribble Valley £21,181 £12,566 £2,641 £141,006 12%

David Evennett &#9632; Bexleyheath & Crayford £0 £2,243 £5,244 £106,467 2%

Michael Fabricant &#9632; Lichfield £16,299 £6,679 £3,306 £129,041 2%

Michael Fallon &#9632; Sevenoaks £23,660 £3,761 £3,087 £118,023 1%

Paul Farrelly &#9632; Newcastle-under-Lyme £23,882 £18,190 £5,322 £170,801 2%

Tim Farron &#9632; Westmorland & Lonsdale £23,484 £15,865 £10,290 £178,924 12%

Lynne Featherstone &#9632; Hornsey & Wood Green £0 £458 £11,316 £138,476 7%

Frank Field &#9632; Birkenhead £8,421 £10,911 £10,263 £139,678 3%

Mark Field &#9632; Cities of London & Westminster £0 £4,197 £23,939 £133,161 2%

Mark Fisher &#9632; Stoke-on-Trent Ctl £20,063 £8,711 £9,465 £121,761 18%

Jim Fitzpatrick &#9632; Poplar & Canning Town £0 £400 £10,182 £141,454 16%

Robert Flello &#9632; StokeonTrent S £12,793 £10,152 £8,980 £160,181 1%

Caroline Flint &#9632; Don Valley £19,383 £10,605 £7,137 £142,194 10%

Paul Flynn &#9632; Newport W £10,009 £4,939 £8,762 £132,091 6%

Barbara Follett &#9632; Stevenage £18,908 £0 £0 £147,625 6%

Don Foster &#9632; Bath £19,018 £8,069 £7,141 £152,860 3%

Michael Jabez &#9632; Hastings & Rye £13,865 £5,213 £8,129 £155,560 1%

Foster

Michael Foster &#9632; Worcester £24,006 £7,633 £12,430 £153,959 3%

Liam Fox &#9632; Woodspring £17,293 £11,336 £3,189 £155,838 2%

Hywel Francis &#9632; Aberavon £24,006 £7,998 £6,033 £161,464 3%

Mark Francois &#9632; Rayleigh £20,691 £5,381 £5,028 £143,175 1%

Christopher Fraser &#9632; Norfolk SW £23,962 £7,512 £8,764 £161,513 5%

Roger Gale &#9632; Thanet N £5,648 £6,918 £6,092 £137,937 0%

George Galloway &#9675; Bethnal Green & Bow £0 £0 £4,983 £130,340 4%

Mike Gapes &#9632; Ilford S £0 £2,511 £6,277 £141,907 4%

Barry Gardiner &#9632; Brent N £21,107 £4,392 £10,288 £164,986 15%

Edward Garnier &#9632; Harborough £24,006 £9,956 £4,109 £148,897 0%

David Gauke &#9632; Hertfordshire S W £20,506 £2,079 £3,846 £125,783 3%

Andrew George &#9632; St Ives £17,912 £15,961 £9,987 £170,135 0%

Bruce George &#9632; Walsall S £8,762 £7,157 £3,273 £127,672 2%

Neil Gerrard &#9632; Walthamstow £0 £1,208 £4,051 £122,166 4%

Nick Gibb &#9632; Bognor Regis & Littlehampton £23,971 £8,831 £0 £132,045 17%

Ian Gibson &#9632; Norwich N £17,095 £3,261 £8,575 £140,271 3%

Sandra Gidley &#9632; Romsey £22,900 £6,213 £9,149 £181,333 14%

Michelle Gildernew &#9632; Fermanagh & S Tyrone £21,600 £2,840 £0 £147,100 6%

Cheryl Gillan &#9632; Chesham & Amersham £22,452 £7,729 £5,640 £159,533 4%

Linda Gilroy &#9632; Plymouth Sutton £18,875 £8,424 £9,694 £173,381 23%

Roger Godsiff &#9632; Birmingham Sparkbrook £24,006 £10,803 £10,056 £189,338 16%

& Small Heath

Paul Goggins &#9632; Wythenshawe & Sale E £9,518 £10,486 £13,895 £143,805 0%

Julia Goldsworthy &#9632; Falmouth & Camborne £22,406 £11,101 £10,582 £161,632
1%

Helen Goodman &#9632; Bishop Auckland £24,000 £24,073 £20,575 £177,073 22%

Paul Goodman &#9632; Wycombe £10,268 £2,367 £4,463 £126,902 2%

Robert Goodwill &#9632; Scarborough & Whitby £21,670 £12,569 £3,927 £151,239 4%

Michael Gove &#9632; Surrey Heath £23,716 £4,569 £14,847 £161,804 6%

Chris Grayling &#9632; Epsom & Ewell £11,342 £8,456 £9,590 £157,333 5%

James Gray &#9632; Wiltshire N £24,006 £9,761 £11,715 £169,773 22%

Damian Green &#9632; Ashford £22,724 £3,883 £6,913 £141,052 0%

Justine Greening &#9632; Putney £0 £1,439 £3,525 £121,026 0%

John Greenway &#9632; Ryedale £23,725 £9,049 £0 £134,224 2%

Dominic Grieve &#9632; Beaconsfield £18,642 £2,424 £6,891 £137,154 7%

Nigel Griffiths &#9632; Edinburgh S £16,209 £13,705 £17,464 £169,710 7%

Nia Griffith &#9632; Llanelli £17,400 £10,758 £13,332 £167,000 5%

John Grogan &#9632; Selby £24,006 £18,147 £4,110 £177,262 12%

John Gummer &#9632; Suffolk Coastal £8,189 £952 £2,696 £101,044 15%

Andrew Gwynne &#9632; Denton & Reddish £22,326 £15,892 £20,236 £173,473 7%

William Hague &#9632; Richmond £13,641 £14,150 £0 £150,926 4%

Peter Hain &#9632; Neath £22,176 £15,149 £9,438 £173,894 8%

Mike Hall &#9632; Weaver Vale £22,930 £10,940 £10,339 £173,236 3%

Patrick Hall &#9632; Bedford £18,430 £1,247 £6,486 £140,770 7%

David Hamilton &#9632; Midlothian £12,727 £15,937 £2,776 £129,450 4%

Fabian Hamilton &#9632; Leeds NE £23,421 £13,350 £10,113 £184,071 7%

Philip Hammond &#9632; Runnymede & Weybridge £24,000 £3,235 £0 £132,424 8%

Stephen Hammond &#9632; Wimbledon £0 £4,851 £12,288 £140,457 9%

Mike Hancock &#9632; Portsmouth S £7,303 £5,612 £10,302 £150,494 6%

Greg Hands &#9632; Hammersmith & Fulham £0 £1,974 £10,252 £118,642 2%

David Hanson &#9632; Delyn £24,006 £13,775 £8,264 £156,995 2%

Harriet Harman &#9632; Camberwell & Peckham £0 £0 £10,075 £141,772 11%

Mark Harper &#9632; Forest of Dean £23,481 £10,783 £8,243 £170,938 13%

Evan Harris &#9632; Oxford W & Abingdon £19,257 £12,551 £2,644 £151,834 6%

Tom Harris &#9632; Glasgow S £19,742 £15,346 £5,755 £143,282 14%

Nick Harvey &#9632; Devon N £22,130 £11,991 £12,476 £169,334 6%

Alan Haselhurst &#9632; Saffron Walden £21,504 £4,489 £9,654 £122,282 1%

Dai Havard &#9632; Merthyr Tydfil & Rhymney £24,006 £5,390 £10,792 £161,724 6%

John Hayes &#9632; S Holland & The Deepings £22,099 £7,691 £522 £161,032 3%

John Healey &#9632; Wentworth £14,319 £16,747 £6,847 £162,499 6%

Oliver Heald &#9632; Hertfordshire NE £21,887 £7,431 £2,318 £153,394 2%

Sylvia Heal &#9632; Halesowen & Rowley Regis £10,544 £8,858 £7,584 £142,959 7%

David Heath &#9632; Somerton & Frome £23,291 £8,949 £8,207 £155,001 6%

David &#9632; Wells £19,840 £8,173 £2,812 £144,388 6%

Heathcoat-Amory

John Hemming &#9632; Birmingham Yardley £17,536 £3,315 £2,892 £151,791 2%

Charles Hendry &#9632; Wealden £20,623 £7,539 £1,500 £153,758 4%

Doug Henderson &#9632; Newcastle upon Tyne N £24,006 £18,497 £8,299 £166,817 10%

Mark Hendrick &#9632; Preston £17,168 £14,713 £13,854 £165,604 18%

Stephen Hepburn &#9632; Jarrow £19,813 £15,753 £9,382 £170,484 9%

John Heppell &#9632; Nottingham E £24,006 £6,115 £8,445 £154,929 6%

Nick Herbert &#9632; Arundel & S Downs £22,720 £3,979 £5,162 £154,000 9%

Sylvia Hermon &#9632; N Down £1,252 £7,634 £0 £128,448 4%

Stephen Hesford &#9632; Wirral W £17,268 £19,011 £9,497 £174,661 5%

Patricia Hewitt &#9632; Leicester W £14,461 £4,879 £10,227 £158,921 8%

David Heyes &#9632; Ashton under Lyne £19,017 £10,250 £5,870 £154,153 9%

Keith Hill &#9632; Streatham £0 £1,504 £9,857 £128,469 6%

Meg Hillier &#9632; Hackney S & Shoreditch £0 £968 £17,960 £135,564 7%

Mark Hoban &#9632; Fareham £18,465 £7,087 £12,299 £150,914 4%

Margaret Hodge &#9632; Barking £0 £930 £13,677 £144,505 8%

Sharon Hodgson &#9632; Gateshead E & Washington W £24,006 £16,747 £1,214
£163,300 0%

Kate Hoey &#9632; Vauxhall £0 £2,033 £9,837 £107,477 7%

Douglas Hogg &#9632; Sleaford & N Hykeham £14,180 £9,235 £0 £109,196 15%

Adam Holloway &#9632; Gravesham £6,783 £2,445 £12,771 £147,396 1%

Philip Hollobone &#9632; Kettering £22,790 £7,836 £10,219 £46,931 2%

Paul Holmes &#9632; Chesterfield £20,855 £8,550 £8,552 £162,853 10%

Jim Hood &#9632; Lanark & HamiltoNE £18,520 £15,414 £13,225 £158,559 1%

Geoff Hoon &#9632; Ashfield £23,850 £10,261 £18,415 £154,386 12%

Phil Hope &#9632; Corby £12,802 £5,666 £10,536 £157,401 0%

Kelvin Hopkins &#9632; Luton N £1,123 £4,948 £9,525 £133,629 10%

John Horam &#9632; Orpington £7,073 £1,907 £10,251 £104,209 15%

Martin Horwood &#9632; Cheltenham £19,655 £6,898 £10,176 £159,261 4%

Stewart Hosie &#9632; Dundee E £21,963 £19,490 £8,680 £166,944 14%

David Howarth &#9632; Cambridge £0 £4,684 £1,040 £121,099 9%

Gerald Howarth &#9632; Aldershot £20,043 £8,274 £17,045 £135,422 10%

George Howarth &#9632; Knowsley N & Sefton E £9,232 £16,638 £52 £148,572 1%

Michael Howard &#9632; Folkestone & Hythe £17,883 £2,951 £1,348 £117,156 2%

John Howell &#9632; Henley £9,666 £3,714 £8,309 £70,559 %

Kim Howells &#9632; Pontypridd £14,903 £12,408 £2,782 £145,696 9%

Lindsay Hoyle &#9632; Chorley £15,030 £13,029 £4,929 £157,309 6%

Beverley Hughes &#9632; Stretford & Urmston £21,980 £13,421 £12,262 £174,297 6%

Simon Hughes &#9632; Southwark N & Bermondsey £0 £3,939 £10,400 £150,589 15%

Chris Huhne &#9632; Eastleigh £4,080 £8,712 £10,510 £149,139 7%

Joan Humble &#9632; Blackpool N & Fleetwood £24,006 £15,437 £10,378 £172,899 8%

Jeremy Hunt &#9632; Surrey S W £9,891 £4,213 £9,278 £125,739 2%

Mark Hunter &#9632; Cheadle £20,021 £8,412 £10,855 £159,434 7%

Nick Hurd &#9632; Ruislip Northwood £0 £2,154 £9,417 £138,969 14%

John Hutton &#9632; Barrow & Furness £23,438 £10,937 £4,735 £153,273 5%

Brian Iddon &#9632; Bolton S E £14,983 £5,788 £8 £136,670 10%

Eric Illsley &#9632; Barnsley Ctl £17,648 £15,900 £10,341 £166,003 12%

Adam Ingram &#9632; E Kilbride, Strathaven £23,463 £23,779 £3,309 £142,132 17%

& Lesmahagow

Huw Irranca-Davies &#9632; Ogmore £17,002 £7,090 £6,227 £142,129 6%

Glenda Jackson &#9632; Hampstead & Highgate £0 £0 £4,611 £141,939 4%

Michael Jack &#9632; Fylde £22,726 £9,710 £0 £130,121 3%

Stewart Jackson &#9632; Peterborough £24,006 £10,496 £12,224 £143,917 5%

Sian James &#9632; Swansea E £17,864 £9,846 £2,686 £145,316 2%

Bernard Jenkin &#9632; Essex N £24,006 £4,189 £8,853 £159,599 12%

Brian Jenkins &#9632; Tamworth £8,634 £5,767 £12,161 £128,464 2%

Alan Johnson &#9632; Hull W & Hessle £10,531 £9,619 £6,324 £121,656 8%

Boris Johnson &#9632; Henley £0 £0 £180 £48,477 66%

Diana Johnson &#9632; Hull N £17,946 £11,942 £7,843 £167,705 1%

David Jones &#9632; Clwyd W £16,750 £14,172 £9,628 £150,361 1%

Helen Jones &#9632; Warrington N £22,096 £14,083 £10,337 £173,199 5%

Kevan Jones &#9632; N Durham £22,434 £13,660 £8,962 £164,432 3%

Lynne Jones &#9632; Birmingham Selly Oak £11,189 £6,126 £401 £152,031 9%

Martyn Jones &#9632; Clwyd S £24,006 £8,029 £9,335 £152,260 14%

Tessa Jowell &#9632; Dulwich & W Norwood £0 £922 £8,682 £136,858 8%

Eric Joyce &#9632; Falkirk £21,806 £38,550 £835 £186,548 0%

Gerald Kaufman &#9632; Manchester Gorton £15,962 £19,212 £13,607 £154,767 23%

Daniel Kawczynski &#9632; Shrewsbury & Atcham £14,557 £11,391 £8,501 £165,269 5%

Sally Keeble &#9632; Northampton N £12,237 £4,553 £9,698 £148,893 1%

Barbara Keeley &#9632; Worsley £23,253 £14,954 £10,067 £163,337 8%

Ann Keen &#9632; Brentford & Isleworth £17,318 £0 £10,322 £136,366 18%

Alan Keen &#9632; Feltham & Heston £17,364 £1,548 £8,218 £152,097 3%

PICTURES: CORBIS, APEX PHOTO AGENCY, LINDA NYLIND, PA

Key

&#9632; Labour

&#9632; Conservative

&#9632; Lib Dem

&#9632; Scottish Nationalist

&#9632; Plaid Cymru

&#9632; UKIP

&#9632; Sinn Fein

&#9633; SDLP

&#9632; UUP

&#9633; DUP

&#9675; Independent

&#9675; Independent Conservative

&#9675; Independent Labour

&#9675; Respect

MP

Constituency

2nd home allowance

Travel

Communications

Claimed

08-09

% change

on 07-08

MP

Constituency

2nd home allowance

Travel

Communications

Claimed

08-09

% change

on 07-08

Captions:

Boundary changes mean that after the 2010 election there will be four more MPs,
bringing the total to

650

MPs standing down this year are marked in blue. An unusually high number are
retiring from parliament - or have been deselected in the wake of the expenses
scandal

Male MPs, 2010

519

Female MPs

126

Average age, years

50.6

Basic salary, MP

£64,776

Cabinet minister

£144,520

Prime minister

£197,689

£1.16m

The cost of the inquiry into the abuses of the expenses system at Westminster.
Just £1.12m was paid back

Barbara Follett repaid more than any other MP in the expenses scandal:

£42,458.21

She had claimed more than £25,000 for security patrols over four years

Conservative MP Anthony Steen charged the taxpayer

£87,729

for the upkeep of his £1m mansion, including for tree surgery. He claimed people
were critical of his spending because they were "jealous"

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                              Correction Appended

Fact File UK: Part Seven: Politics: Waht did your MP claim in expenses?

SECTION: GUARDIAN NEWSPRINT SUPPLEMENT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 3942 words


MP

Constituency

2nd home allowance

Travel

Communications

Claimed

08-09

% change

on 07-08

Key

&#9632; Labour

&#9632; Conservative

&#9632; Lib Dem

&#9632; Scottish Nationalist

&#9632; Plaid Cymru

&#9632; UKIP

&#9632; Sinn Fein

&#9633; SDLP

&#9632; UUP

&#9633; DUP

&#9675; Independent

&#9675; Independent Conservative

&#9675; Independent Labour

&#9675; Respect

S Speaker of the House

Paul Keetch &#9632; Hereford £23,352 £12,897 £4,417 £160,377 1%

Ruth Kelly &#9632; Bolton W £11,294 £10,134 £59 £138,685 20%

Fraser Kemp &#9632; Houghton & £23,080 £10,483 £160 £150,055 11%

Washington E

Charles Kennedy &#9632; Ross, Skye & Lochaber £21,102 £35,260 £12,480 £167,716
4%

Jane Kennedy &#9632; Liverpool Wavertree £23,574 £11,746 £5,628 £161,524 6%

Robert Key &#9632; Salisbury £13,216 £5,737 £6,943 £130,243 7%

Sadiq Khan &#9632; Tooting £0 £442 £13,323 £140,189 4%

David Kidney &#9632; Stafford £18,230 £5,215 £11,017 £160,253 6%

Peter Kilfoyle &#9632; Liverpool Walton £24,006 £11,608 £4,673 £149,036 4%

Julie Kirkbride &#9632; Bromsgrove £23,432 £8,249 £5,477 £142,799 3%

Greg Knight &#9632; Yorkshire E £20,618 £10,169 £819 £146,818 6%

Jim Knight &#9632; Dorset S £22,122 £5,620 £10,007 £160,758 3%

Susan Kramer &#9632; Richmond Park £0 £0 £11,305 £140,728 11%

Ashok Kumar &#9632; Middlesbrough S & £23,999 £16,910 £10,400 £179,463 15%

Cleveland E

Stephen Ladyman &#9632; Thanet S £23,293 £6,467 £6,550 £150,891 10%

Eleanor Laing &#9632; Epping Forest £19,665 £826 £7,394 £150,813 12%

Jacqui Lait &#9632; Beckenham £13,751 £7,228 £2,278 £118,130 13%

Norman Lamb &#9632; Norfolk N £18,999 £6,249 £10,400 £161,735 1%

David Lammy &#9632; Tottenham £0 £1,248 £7,998 £139,934 5%

Mark Lancaster &#9632; Milton Keynes NE £23,619 £6,014 £10,390 £166,724 10%

Andrew Lansley &#9632; Cambridgeshire S £21,452 £7,870 £10,440 £171,150 9%

David Laws &#9632; Yeovil £15,962 £10,027 £10,162 £165,106 5%

Bob Laxton &#9632; Derby North £18,589 £5,007 £592 £124,452 10%

Mark Lazarowicz &#9632; Edinburgh N & Leith £14,222 £11,917 £11,210 £164,850 0%

John Leech &#9632; Manchester Withington £8,684 £10,369 £10,106 £155,321 5%

Edward Leigh &#9632; Gainsborough £22,139 £13,283 £3,481 £161,824 5%

David Lepper &#9632; Brighton Pavilion £11,371 £1,667 £4,189 £140,051 3%

Oliver Letwin &#9632; Dorset W £21,073 £8,950 £0 £139,783 8%

Tom Levitt &#9632; High Peak £20,523 £12,519 £18,756 £168,318 2%

Ivan Lewis &#9632; Bury S £22,835 £12,747 £10,400 £173,382 5%

Julian Lewis &#9632; New Forest E £16,932 £5,072 £197 £125,827 4%

Ian Liddell-Grainger &#9632; Bridgwater £24,006 £18,893 £8,573 £174,333 5%

David Lidington &#9632; Aylesbury £22,345 £3,062 £8,012 £126,244 9%

Peter Lilley &#9632; Hitchin & Harpenden £18,268 £1,698 £7,103 £136,416 9%

Martin Linton &#9632; Battersea £0 £1,732 £21,633 £143,663 10%

Tony Lloyd &#9632; Manchester Ctl £18,544 £9,721 £3,925 £151,137 2%

Elfyn Llwyd &#9632; Meirionnydd Nant Conwy £19,773 £12,896 £2,157 £151,705 5%

Michael Lord &#9632; Suffolk Ctl & Ipswich N £18,428 £6,214 £2,304 £123,818 2%

Tim Loughton &#9632; Worthing E & Shoreham £22,063 £9,100 £4,937 £148,162 1%

Andy Love &#9632; Edmonton £20,119 £3,571 £10,921 £160,388 8%

Ian Lucas &#9632; Wrexham £21,174 £9,411 £10,060 £151,829 2%

Peter Luff &#9632; Worcestershire Mid £22,982 £7,363 £12,327 £146,500 5%

Andrew MacKay &#9632; Bracknell £23,539 £6,102 £8,504 £134,480 1%

Andrew MacKinlay &#9632; Thurrock £14,342 £4,151 £1,888 £146,097 8%

David MacLean &#9632; Penrith & the Border £18,763 £17,143 £3,163 £121,358 22%

Angus MacNeil &#9632; Na hEileanan an Iar £19,465 £32,468 £5,864 £141,583 4%

Denis MacShane &#9632; Rotherham £23,995 £10,343 £10,390 £155,491 2%

Fiona MacTaggart &#9632; Slough £1,811 £2,235 £13,726 £149,188 11%

Khalid Mahmood &#9632; Birmingham Perry Barr £4,025 £6,668 £9,615 £141,175 14%

Anne Main &#9632; St Albans £17,859 £3,310 £13,492 £144,253 2%

Humfrey Malins &#9632; Woking £6,090 £6,624 £4,199 £99,598 17%

Shahid Malik &#9632; Dewsbury £23,783 £12,289 £11,079 £173,095 10%

Judy Mallaber &#9632; Amber Valley £3,587 £5,711 £7,317 £142,585 0%

John Mann &#9632; Bassetlaw £9,800 £10,846 £12,059 £161,625 6%

John Maples &#9632; Stratford-on-Avon £23,319 £4,193 £784 £124,238 5%

Rob Marris &#9632; Wolverhampton S W £10,427 £2,980 £9,877 £139,253 5%

David Marshall &#9632; Glasgow E £2,878 £2,135 £0 £58,609 55%

Gordon Marsden &#9632; Blackpool S £8,959 £15,692 £10,400 £164,035 8%

Robert &#9632; Medway £18,081 £1,037 £0 £113,633 6%

Marshall-Andrews

Eric Martlew &#9632; Carlisle £19,070 £11,161 £5,668 £149,284 2%

Michael Martin S Glasgow NE £7,384 £11,726 £0 £56,067 25%

John Mason &#9632; Glasgow E £9,921 £5,429 £12,592 £104,085 %

Michael Mates &#9632; Hampshire E £23,999 £4,857 £4,865 £105,928 25%

Francis Maude &#9632; Horsham £22,207 £6,322 £22,373 £155,797 5%

Theresa May &#9632; Maidenhead £2,078 £1,964 £16,415 £126,201 7%

Thomas McAvoy &#9632; Rutherglen & Hamilton W £6,211 £8,835 £13,311 £162,261 7%

Chris McCafferty &#9632; Calder Valley £23,757 £16,318 £10,324 £177,517 16%

Ian McCartney &#9632; Makerfield £14,876 £11,820 £5,475 £143,254 8%

Kerry McCarthy &#9632; Bristol E £20,492 £13,761 £11,841 £175,042 14%

Stephen McCabe &#9632; Birmingham Hall Green £16,961 £6,071 £9,057 £152,183 4%

Sarah McCarthy-Fry &#9632; Portsmouth N £20,281 £6,208 £8,345 £166,004 15%

William McCrea &#9633; S Antrim £21,177 £19,525 £6,524 £168,518 5%

Alasdair McDonnell &#9633; S Belfast £19,651 £10,755 £9,054 £163,854 4%

John McDonnell &#9632; Hayes & Harlington £0 £2,359 £9,052 £138,041 2%

Siobhain McDonagh &#9632; Mitcham & Morden £0 £1,836 £20,995 £150,815 12%

John McFall &#9632; Dunbartonshire W £18,838 £17,863 £10,477 £168,491 5%

Pat McFadden &#9632; Wolverhampton S E £15,116 £7,014 £6,921 £129,992 2%

Jim McGovern &#9632; Dundee W £24,006 £19,725 £12,440 £178,597 4%

Eddie McGrady &#9633; S Down £8,169 £14,640 £7,117 £155,387 1%

Anne McGuire &#9632; Stirling £18,473 £2,975 £10,016 £150,964 7%

Martin McGuinness &#9632; Mid Ulster £19,800 £17,512 £0 £158,247 16%

Anne McIntosh &#9632; Vale of York £16,365 £13,832 £4,313 £135,017 1%

Shona McIsaac &#9632; Cleethorpes £11,084 £7,248 £12,583 £156,220 7%

Ann McKechin &#9632; Glasgow N £15,845 £12,880 £12,790 £158,416 7%

Rosemary McKenna &#9632; Cumbernauld, Kilsyth & £22,040 £22,636 £5,984 £157,709
6%

Kirkintilloch E

Patrick McLoughlin &#9632; Derbyshire W £21,620 £8,343 £5,838 £134,715 5%

Tony McNulty &#9632; Harrow E £7,330 £0 £8,146 £128,560 4%

Michael Meacher &#9632; Oldham W & Royton £8,267 £13,033 £7,260 £154,172 9%

Alan Meale &#9632; Mansfield £23,959 £22,708 £10,663 £182,933 9%

Patrick Mercer &#9632; Newark £21,733 £16,897 £1,175 £164,747 6%

Gillian Merron &#9632; Lincoln £20,095 £6,976 £10,333 £158,797 2%

Alun Michael &#9632; Cardiff S & Penarth £13,129 £8,881 £7,426 £153,637 3%

Alan Milburn &#9632; Darlington £23,048 £21,435 £9,719 £180,543 11%

David Miliband &#9632; South Shields £9,083 £4,628 £6,923 £125,599 7%

Andrew Miller &#9632; Ellesmere Port & Neston £17,585 £15,168 £8,785 £162,581
11%

Ed Miliband &#9632; Doncaster N £7,783 £6,573 £6,309 £123,897 4%

Maria Miller &#9632; Basingstoke £24,006 £6,667 £12,336 £155,346 2%

Anne Milton &#9632; Guildford £185 £3,259 £18,402 £123,016 1%

Austin Mitchell &#9632; Great Grimsby £22,544 £14,596 £7,365 £161,405 3%

Andrew Mitchell &#9632; Sutton Coldfield £21,800 £6,546 £9,194 £163,526 4%

Laura Moffatt &#9632; Crawley £39 £6,066 £13,478 £152,843 7%

Chris Mole &#9632; Ipswich £9,767 £4,016 £10,379 £140,368 2%

Madeleine Moon &#9632; Bridgend £23,999 £9,548 £12,307 £165,154 2%

Michael Moore &#9632; Berwickshire, £20,387 £18,269 £10,919 £171,539 5%

Roxburgh & Selkirk

Margaret Moran &#9632; Luton S £24,006 £5,184 £10,094 £165,334 3%

Jessica Morden &#9632; Newport E £13,407 £5,054 £10,394 £146,785 12%

Julie Morgan &#9632; Cardiff N £4,960 £8,579 £10,366 £162,046 11%

Elliot Morley &#9632; Scunthorpe £15,881 £11,118 £11,537 £146,589 1%

Malcolm Moss &#9632; Cambridgeshire NE £23,958 £6,166 £7,161 £158,842 7%

Kali Mountford &#9632; Colne Valley £24,006 £15,866 £1,407 £166,732 4%

George Mudie &#9632; Leeds E £8,502 £9,153 £331 £143,117 5%

Greg Mulholland &#9632; Leeds NW £22,646 £10,586 £10,369 £165,835 5%

Chris Mullin &#9632; Sunderland S £14,648 £3,714 £423 £130,546 1%

David Mundell &#9632; Dumfriesshire, £19,447 £22,288 £14,402 £176,983 5%

Clydesdale & Tweeddale

Meg Munn &#9632; Sheffield Heeley £22,650 £8,677 £4,211 £138,327 4%

Conor Murphy &#9632; Newry & Armagh £21,600 £840 £0 £143,165 8%

Denis Murphy &#9632; Wansbeck £16,390 £13,893 £11,212 £164,851 8%

Jim Murphy &#9632; Renfrewshire E £18,884 £9,178 £10,954 £165,331 2%

Paul Murphy &#9632; Torfaen £14,294 £3,141 £13,603 £142,871 5%

Andrew Murrison &#9632; Westbury £15,897 £7,536 £10,038 £135,494 0%

Doug Naysmith &#9632; Bristol NW £19,846 £5,516 £6,091 £142,805 1%

Bob Neill &#9632; Bromley & Chislehurst £18,364 £6,481 £11,591 £159,156 1%

Brooks Newmark &#9632; Braintree £22,000 £3,472 £6,054 £145,356 5%

Dan Norris &#9632; Wansdyke £14,642 £7,770 £6,393 £152,844 2%

Mark Oaten &#9632; Winchester £20,277 £10,121 £9,342 £160,668 3%

Mike O'Brien &#9632; Warwickshire N £10,686 £10,090 £10,319 £154,052 7%

Stephen O'Brien &#9632; Eddisbury £23,797 £17,569 £0 £166,523 9%

Edward O'Hara &#9632; Knowsley S £23,973 £11,023 £623 £134,460 9%

Bill Olner &#9632; Nuneaton £22,106 £9,241 £1,195 £135,963 1%

Lembit Opik &#9632; Montgomeryshire £23,779 £7,372 £9,710 £167,128 2%

George Osborne &#9632; Tatton £23,347 £15,386 £13,164 £167,054 11%

Sandra Osborne &#9632; Ayr, Carrick & Cumnock £16,601 £16,587 £9,490 £145,656
13%

Richard Ottaway &#9632; Croydon S £9,635 £2,665 £9,633 £133,594 8%

Albert Owen &#9632; Ynys Mon £18,923 £8,333 £2,938 £133,031 6%

James Paice &#9632; Cambridgeshire S E £20,513 £8,511 £11,410 £147,424 3%

Ian Paisley &#9633; N Antrim £16,625 £4,361 £1,269 £122,555 12%

Nick Palmer &#9632; Broxtowe £23,393 £10,688 £12,332 £169,199 8%

Owen Paterson &#9632; Shropshire N £20,214 £26,457 £11,884 £174,827 6%

Ian Pearson &#9632; Dudley S £23,887 £6,718 £8,030 £157,615 0%

Andrew Pelling &#9675; Croydon Ctl £0 £2,060 £21,694 £100,028 6%

Mike Penning &#9632; Hemel Hempstead £7,388 £3,642 £4,172 £135,078 10%

John Penrose &#9632; Weston-super-Mare £13,564 £4,624 £8,318 £154,695 8%

Anne Moffat &#9632; E Lothian £22,595 £21,630 £11,263 £180,457 7%

Eric Pickles &#9632; Brentwood & Ongar £4,496 £3,555 £11,863 £127,307 6%

James Plaskitt &#9632; Warwick & Leamington £17,800 £4,710 £10,151 £161,029 3%

Greg Pope &#9632; Hyndburn £21,614 £15,352 £9,924 £165,559 2%

Stephen Pound &#9632; Ealing N £0 £3,813 £7,634 £138,409 0%

Bridget Prentice &#9632; Lewisham E £0 £767 £9,497 £140,665 7%

Gordon Prentice &#9632; Pendle £17,110 £8,499 £9,520 £124,998 9%

John Prescott &#9632; Hull E £24,006 £15,983 £0 £156,298 10%

Adam Price &#9632; Carmarthen E & Dinefwr £16,610 £10,304 £6,371 £152,420 2%

Dawn Primarolo &#9632; Bristol S £20,798 £6,414 £9,686 £159,177 6%

Mark Prisk &#9632; Hertford & Stortford £17,069 £4,519 £5,079 £150,978 3%

Mark Pritchard &#9632; The Wrekin £24,006 £13,299 £21,269 £172,997 7%

Gwyn Prosser &#9632; Dover £12,709 £2,877 £225 £126,832 5%

John Pugh &#9632; Southport £23,970 £4,572 £7,931 £146,920 10%

Ken Purchase &#9632; Wolverhampton NE £11,091 £7,560 £12,005 £139,661 3%

James Purnell &#9632; Stalybridge & Hyde £20,950 £10,651 £5,218 £153,864 19%

Bill Rammell &#9632; Harlow £4,212 £1,883 £10,499 £142,213 1%

John Randall &#9632; Uxbridge £0 £3,196 £0 £101,090 2%

Nick Raynsford &#9632; Greenwich & Woolwich £0 £0 £6,004 £119,367 2%

John Redwood &#9632; Wokingham £19,931 £2,649 £5,660 £93,629 12%

Andy Reed &#9632; Loughborough £20,387 £6,615 £9,952 £159,409 5%

Jamie Reed &#9632; Copeland £21,344 £19,904 £10,460 £173,466 2%

Alan Reid &#9632; Argyll & Bute £16,111 £18,146 £12,587 £148,210 11%

John Reid &#9632; Airdrie & Shotts £15,029 £7,134 £3,179 £135,078 16%

Willie Rennie &#9632; Dunfermline & W Fife £21,709 £17,212 £14,814 £171,929 5%

Malcolm Rifkind &#9632; Kensington & Chelsea £0 £2,562 £1,868 £113,401 5%

Linda Riordan &#9632; Halifax £23,215 £13,758 £12,918 £165,888 7%

Andrew Robathan &#9632; Blaby £24,006 £8,484 £0 £111,682 2%

Angus Robertson &#9632; Moray £22,200 £25,690 £7,666 £188,164 13%

Hugh Robertson &#9632; Faversham & Kent Mid £23,926 £5,942 £0 £130,831 6%

John Robertson &#9632; Glasgow NW £20,761 £20,110 £5,691 £163,596 7%

Laurence Robertson &#9632; Tewkesbury £24,006 £15,962 £7,065 £171,699 5%

Geoffrey Robinson &#9632; Coventry NW £0 £14,636 £10,163 £137,606 8%

Iris Robinson &#9633; Strangford £16,814 £10,908 £714 £114,910 8%

Peter Robinson &#9633; E Belfast £19,751 £12,566 £11,147 £155,278 21%

Dan Rogerson &#9632; Cornwall N £22,118 £11,050 £7,527 £163,681 9%

Terry Rooney &#9632; Bradford N £10,774 £14,450 £1,965 £138,413 0%

Andrew Rosindell &#9632; Romford £23,646 £3,238 £10,394 £164,353 5%

Paul Rowen &#9632; Rochdale £21,884 £14,303 £10,050 £172,738 5%

Frank Roy &#9632; Motherwell & Wishaw £16,033 £17,778 £12,768 £166,442 5%

Lindsay Roy &#9632; Glenrothes £9,934 £9,309 £12,066 £68,314 %

Chris Ruane &#9632; Vale of Clwyd £23,940 £5,906 £11,099 £166,688 4%

Joan Ruddock &#9632; Lewisham Deptford £0 £228 £7,307 £136,287 4%

David Ruffley &#9632; Bury St Edmunds £13,152 £6,579 £10,374 £146,535 4%

Bob Russell &#9632; Colchester £5,082 £5,775 £10,892 £148,968 3%

Christine Russell &#9632; City of Chester £19,274 £11,399 £5,072 £154,985 1%

Joan Ryan &#9632; Enfield N £18,283 £1,208 £17,538 £159,401 5%

Alex Salmond &#9632; Banff & Buchan £589 £5,418 £3,924 £131,317 6%

Martin Salter &#9632; Reading W £0 £8,872 £11,545 £137,719 4%

Adrian Sanders &#9632; Torbay £18,225 £8,870 £9,731 £159,434 3%

Mohammad Sarwar &#9632; Glasgow Ctl £24,006 £31,310 £10,299 £192,987 10%

Lee Scott &#9632; Ilford N £0 £3,760 £7,388 £127,439 6%

Alison Seabeck &#9632; Plymouth Devonport £17,960 £10,359 £9,433 £162,122 7%

Andrew Selous &#9632; Bedfordshire S W £22,297 £5,829 £5,841 £142,551 3%

Grant Shapps &#9632; Welwyn Hatfield £4,104 £7,843 £2,487 £120,261 5%

Virendra Sharma &#9632; Ealing Southall £0 £1,730 £11,124 £147,137 58%

Jonathan Shaw &#9632; Chatham & Aylesford £21,220 £1,953 £12,217 £158,979 5%

Barry Sheerman &#9632; Huddersfield £22,577 £16,034 £10,812 £174,930 9%

Richard Shepherd &#9632; Aldridge Brownhills £6,665 £5,889 £0 £93,196 18%

Jim Sheridan &#9632; Paisley & Renfrewshire N £24,006 £18,888 £13,984 £177,819
16%

Clare Short &#9675; Birmingham Ladywood £10,819 £7,649 £0 £137,619 1%

Mark Simmonds &#9632; Boston & Skegness £24,006 £12,246 £8,757 £178,017 16%

Sion Simon &#9632; Birmingham Erdington £23,820 £6,339 £13,254 £175,666 10%

Alan Simpson &#9632; Nottingham S £23,654 £10,895 £7,392 £170,179 9%

David Simpson &#9633; Upper Bann £19,664 £21,274 £10,115 £157,235 1%

Keith Simpson &#9632; Norfolk Mid £21,768 £8,174 £8,097 £148,248 7%

Marsha Singh &#9632; Bradford W £19,237 £12,365 £9,563 £174,447 22%

Dennis Skinner &#9632; Bolsover £12,230 £5,502 £48 £68,245 2%

Andrew Slaughter &#9632; Ealing, Acton & £0 £2,719 £7,476 £142,214 4%

Shepherd's Bush

Angela E. Smith &#9632; Basildon £9,698 £3,081 £9,174 £146,613 4%

Andrew Smith &#9632; Oxford E £9,276 £2,956 £9,311 £150,804 1%

Angela C. Smith &#9632; Sheffield Hillsborough £23,254 £10,161 £10,371 £172,082
15%

Geraldine Smith &#9632; Morecambe & Lunesdale £21,744 £17,685 £15,481 £174,152
5%

Jacqui Smith &#9632; Redditch £19,182 £8,845 £6,062 £144,505 8%

John Smith &#9632; Vale of Glamorgan £22,244 £9,002 £9,624 £159,374 7%

Robert Smith &#9632; Aberdeenshire W & £15,461 £18,794 £13,611 £150,216 6%

Kincardine

Anne Snelgrove &#9632; Swindon S £15,006 £8,781 £10,671 £154,147 2%

Nicholas Soames &#9632; Sussex Mid £19,391 £1,832 £7,433 £151,752 2%

Peter Soulsby &#9632; Leicester S £24,006 £9,302 £7,187 £164,519 5%

Helen Southworth &#9632; Warrington S £15,562 £9,847 £7,039 £151,624 9%

Caroline Spelman &#9632; Meriden £7,524 £16,090 £9,049 £101,786 16%

John Spellar &#9632; Warley £10,460 £4,735 £516 £132,015 6%

Michael Spicer &#9632; Worcestershire W £20,440 £4,044 £24,817 £109,756 1%

Bob Spink &#9632; Castle Point £21,875 £6,461 £9,305 £146,568 4%

Richard Spring &#9632; Suffolk W £23,992 £5,310 £8,499 £128,058 8%

John Stanley &#9632; Tonbridge & Malling £21,931 £1,423 £0 £99,395 0%

Phyllis Starkey &#9632; Milton Keynes S W £16,670 £6,008 £15,582 £157,162 2%

Anthony Steen &#9632; Totnes £19,764 £14,539 £12,214 £164,379 2%

Ian Stewart &#9632; Eccles £21,600 £12,606 £1,439 £155,671 5%

Howard Stoate &#9632; Dartford £11,255 £3,635 £10,372 £149,662 1%

Gavin Strang &#9632; Edinburgh E £9,521 £19,534 £10,707 £152,984 3%

Jack Straw &#9632; Blackburn £6,275 £5,291 £7,836 £142,887 13%

Gary Streeter &#9632; Devon S W £23,589 £12,763 £4,924 £162,719 6%

Graham Stringer &#9632; Manchester Blackley £19,536 £14,467 £1,323 £132,700 5%

Graham Stuart &#9632; Beverley & Holderness £21,486 £10,296 £9,313 £168,209 12%

Gisela Stuart &#9632; Birmingham Edgbaston £19,280 £7,525 £10,306 £164,198 7%

Andrew Stunell &#9632; Hazel Grove £12,403 £4,006 £15,796 £148,194 5%

Gerry Sutcliffe &#9632; Bradford S £15,079 £20,556 £8,868 £160,702 10%

Desmond Swayne &#9632; New Forest W £12,558 £3,771 £269 £90,273 5%

Jo Swinson &#9632; Dunbartonshire E £19,859 £13,939 £9,286 £145,377 8%

Hugo Swire &#9632; Devon E £23,103 £10,823 £3,216 £161,637 7%

Robert Syms &#9632; Poole £24,000 £5,682 £5,861 £139,681 1%

Mark Tami &#9632; Alyn & Deeside £19,988 £8,869 £6,628 £160,584 11%

Peter Tapsell &#9632; Louth & Horncastle £24,006 £6,770 £1,401 £157,212 7%

Dari Taylor &#9632; Stockton S £18,781 £20,007 £9,893 £146,499 7%

Ian Taylor &#9632; Esher & Walton £24,006 £4,370 £7,771 £179,501 17%

Matthew Taylor &#9632; Truro & St Austell £23,963 £10,062 £9,960 £176,673 9%

Richard Taylor &#9675; Wyre Forest £19,984 £5,230 £0 £97,016 12%

Sarah Teather &#9632; Brent E £0 £1,366 £10,314 £139,201 10%

Gareth Thomas &#9632; Harrow W £7,950 £551 £10,789 £142,506 5%

Emily Thornberry &#9632; Islington S & Finsbury £0 £0 £14,163 £142,652 8%

John Thurso &#9632; Caithn's, Suthl'd & East Ross £21,633 £34,405 £11,035
£178,689 24%

Stephen Timms &#9632; East Ham £0 £0 £6,557 £116,345 2%

Edward Timpson &#9632; Crewe & Nantwich £10,141 £2,803 £11,568 £148,741 %

Paddy Tipping &#9632; Sherwood £13,131 £13,209 £11,751 £156,449 3%

Mark Todd &#9632; Derbyshire S £9,870 £10,964 £7,540 £150,235 0%

Don Touhig &#9632; Islwyn £23,899 £7,678 £6,050 £163,496 4%

David Tredinnick &#9632; Bosworth £24,006 £6,693 £3,913 £151,264 6%

Jon Trickett &#9632; Hemsworth £2,200 £10,560 £12,399 £145,409 5%

Paul Truswell &#9632; Pudsey £10,211 £6,702 £8,505 £133,217 9%

Andrew Turner &#9632; Isle of Wight £15,091 £5,333 £4,928 £122,614 11%

Desmond Turner &#9632; Brighton, Kemptown £14,566 £5,511 £10,275 £161,231 12%

Neil Turner &#9632; Wigan £20,148 £10,530 £6,750 £156,441 3%

Derek Twigg &#9632; Halton £20,094 £13,225 £9,727 £132,380 9%

Andrew Tyrie &#9632; Chichester £22,726 £4,600 £0 £126,483 8%

Kitty Ussher &#9632; Burnley £23,671 £17,393 £12,596 £181,567 17%

Ed Vaizey &#9632; Wantage £18,968 £5,724 £1,270 £119,591 17%

Shailesh Vara &#9632; Cambridgeshire NW £23,475 £7,807 £2,143 £150,235 12%

Keith Vaz &#9632; Leicester E £23,831 £11,628 £10,383 £173,937 8%

Peter Viggers &#9632; Gosport £24,006 £5,260 £8,979 £124,058 12%

Theresa Villiers &#9632; Chipping Barnet £18,827 £2,826 £6,859 £143,330 0%

Rudi Vis &#9632; Finchley & Golders Green £22,142 £5,560 £1,772 £142,769 9%

Charles Walker &#9632; Broxbourne £0 £3,258 £6,076 £122,326 1%

Ben Wallace &#9632; Lancaster & Wyre £24,006 £19,174 £6,562 £173,746 1%

Joan Walley &#9632; Stoke-on-Trent N £11,436 £12,700 £10,031 £143,565 2%

Lynda Waltho &#9632; Stourbridge £24,006 £8,794 £9,395 £159,903 11%

Robert Walter &#9632; Dorset N £20,416 £9,026 £12,310 £160,247 20%

Claire Ward &#9632; Watford £24,006 £2,050 £8,407 £152,671 4%

Robert Wareing &#9675; Liverpool W Derby £13,673 £13,938 £5,205 £163,350 0%

Nigel Waterson &#9632; Eastbourne £18,045 £5,840 £8,814 £158,162 2%

Angela Watkinson &#9632; Upminster £13,181 £1,696 £7,264 £130,674 2%

Tom Watson &#9632; West Bromwich E £14,487 £7,224 £5,978 £129,866 9%

Dave Watts &#9632; St Helens N £8,334 £12,953 £9,135 £129,430 5%

Steve Webb &#9632; Northavon £19,741 £9,537 £8,616 £162,098 2%

Mike Weir &#9632; Angus £21,544 £12,774 £8,456 £143,212 0%

Alan Whitehead &#9632; Southampton Test £11,808 £5,351 £11,893 £152,104 5%

John Whittingdale &#9632; Maldon & Chelmsford E £17,828 £4,744 £10,512 £129,341
9%

Malcolm Wicks &#9632; Croydon N £0 £486 £8,431 £139,704 6%

Ann Widdecombe &#9632; Maidstone & The Weald £2,105 £1,239 £0 £122,696 6%

Bill Wiggin &#9632; Leominster £12,688 £8,493 £1,917 £135,777 13%

Alan Williams &#9632; Swansea W £5,075 £4,021 £0 £22,146 72%

Betty Williams &#9632; Conwy £12,920 £15,611 £0 £115,916 21%

David Willetts &#9632; Havant £22,691 £8,896 £6,160 £162,807 6%

Hywel Williams &#9632; Caernarfon £19,885 £13,603 £3,824 £157,130 5%

Jenny Willott &#9632; Cardiff Ctl £23,187 £6,618 £5,382 £141,963 5%

Mark Williams &#9632; Ceredigion £21,625 £15,585 £12,919 £166,466 14%

Michael Wills &#9632; Swindon N £18,582 £1,887 £8,748 £142,539 7%

Phil Willis &#9632; Harrogate £23,640 £14,558 £10,300 £183,075 9%

& Knaresborough

Roger Williams &#9632; Brecon & Radnorshire £19,359 £8,115 £9,467 £148,910 5%

Stephen Williams &#9632; Bristol W £23,301 £6,600 £15,406 £158,611 9%

David Wilshire &#9632; Spelthorne £24,006 £9,977 £10,484 £158,313 1%

Phil Wilson &#9632; Sedgefield £21,995 £24,352 £2,711 £151,933 30%

Rob Wilson &#9632; Reading E £0 £8,174 £10,371 £139,517 6%

Sammy Wilson &#9633; E Antrim £16,855 £18,946 £6,045 £155,959 1%

David Winnick &#9632; Walsall N £10,045 £5,779 £4,047 £126,095 31%

Ann Winterton &#9632; Congleton £22,404 £3,905 £0 £112,971 7%

Nicholas Winterton &#9632; Macclesfield £21,521 £6,018 £0 £110,536 24%

Rosie Winterton &#9632; Doncaster Ctl £16,762 £4,730 £8,129 £109,285 20%

Pete Wishart &#9632; Perth & N Perthshire £19,900 £24,079 £8,784 £175,896 5%

Mike Wood &#9632; Batley & Spen £11,363 £5,348 £8,714 £140,673 3%

Roberta &#9632; City of Durham £21,785 £15,269 £13,769 £183,993 16%

Blackman-Woods

Shaun Woodward &#9632; St Helens S £21,417 £5,196 £3,506 £166,247 9%

Phil Woolas &#9632; Oldham E & Saddleworth £23,988 £23,119 £10,489 £177,486 5%

Tony Wright &#9632; Cannock Chase £16,079 £9,058 £153 £142,182 13%

Anthony Wright &#9632; Great Yarmouth £12,770 £8,081 £3,935 £123,474 20%

David Wright &#9632; Telford £24,006 £7,183 £12,707 £154,663 0%

Iain Wright &#9632; Hartlepool £15,418 £6,759 £6,430 £136,293 5%

Jeremy Wright &#9632; Rugby & Kenilworth £20,540 £5,597 £6,231 £146,204 8%

Derek Wyatt &#9632; Sittingbourne & Sheppey £23,984 £4,468 £10,818 £142,415 9%

Tim Yeo &#9632; Suffolk S £24,006 £5,704 £8,401 £154,474 1%

George Young &#9632; Hampshire NW £23,297 £5,653 £1,846 £155,807 21%

Richard &#9632; Teignbridge £22,414 £13,839 £6,996 £155,611 1%

Younger-Ross

PICTURES: LINDA NYLIND, GETTY IMAGES, MURDO MACLEOD

MP

Constituency

2nd home allowance

Travel

Communications

Claimed

08-09

% change

on 07-08

MP

Constituency

2nd home allowance

Travel

Communications

Claimed

08-09

% change

on 07-08

Captions:

MPs' pay around the world

Basic salary for an MP in the UK is now £65,737

Canadian MPs get

$157,731 (2009's figure - was frozen for 2010) or

£102,585

US senators get

$174,000 a year (2009)

£116,083

German MPs get

euros 7,668 a month (2009)

£82,172

per year, but they also receive a tax-free lump sum of euros 3,868 for expenses.
They have the right to an office in the Bundestag and do not have to pay for
domestic train or air travel

Australian MPs get

$131,040 (2009) or

£79,810

Bulgarian MPs get

2,307 leva a month (March 2010) or

£12,363

per year. The figure is linked to average public sector pay and updated each
quarter

Sir Peter Viggers claimed more than

£30,000

for gardening bills, including the purchase of a duck house

Glasgow Central MP Mohammad Sarwar submitted the largest expenses claim of
2008-09, at

£192,987

6,777

guests entertained in the House of Commons by Keith Vaz MP, at 58 events - more
than any other MP

£95.58m

The total claimed in 2008-09, up 3% on the previous year

£10.54m

£5.91m

£5.11m

Communications claims

Travel claims

2nd home allowance

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2010 Saturday



CORRECTION: *In the last edition of our recent series of statistics supplements,
we reproduced figures on MPs' 2008-09 expenses claims, issued by House of
Commons authorities (30 April, pages 16-19, Fact file UK: Part seven, Politics).
Our practice is to make such data more accessible by converting it from the
static pdf format as issued, into spreadsheets. But unnoticed by us in the
transfer, a glitch in one element of these expenses (staff costs) affected
tallies for the last 32 MPs we listed. So from Alan Williams to Richard
Younger-Ross, the overall totals were wrong. The error produced some dramatic
results. David Winnick, Labour candidate for Walsall North, rightly complained
for instance that instead of his real claim total of £101,341 (a 3% rise on
2007-08) we showed his total as £126,095 - an apparent 31% increase. Totals for
the affected group have all been corrected in the online table (MPs' expenses:
who claimed what? The full list, Datablog, guardian.co.uk).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Leeds today - Farsley Celtic and Michael Jackson

BYLINE: John Baronguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 603 words

ABSTRACT

A round-up of news and views with the help of the city's best blogs and websites


FULL TEXT

Good morning Leeds!

Morley and Outwood general candidates will face each other in what promises to
be an interesting soap box debate today at 12.30pm at Windsor Court, off Queen
Street, Morley (next to Morrisons). Confirmed are Ed Balls - Labour; Chris
Beverley - BNP; David Daniel - UKIP; James Monaghan - Lib Dem; Antony Calvert -
Conservative.

Does Holbeck Urban Village need its own bus route? That's what Leeds councillors
were saying at a planning meeting yesterday. I'll be filing a post shortly.

Also today, I'll be featuring a terrific guest post from 's Sally Paddock
looking at the city's creative and cultural websites.

Here's what's making Leeds tick today...

Leeds council is to press ahead with the purchase of Throstle Nest football
ground in Farsley, . It is a move that will throw a lifeline to troubled Farsley
Celtic - in administration since last July - and save Throstle Nest for
community football use.

Over 30 faith venues in Leeds will open to reveal their hidden treasures during
May, reports

"With the UK's election now only a week away, the time has come for me to
properly decide for whom I'm going to vote."

So writes constituent Dave Naylor on his blog.

will host the European premiere of Man in the Mirror - Michael Jackson's
Greatest Hits as part of its summer season.

Communisis is in consultation over 23 redundancies at its Leeds print and direct
mailing facility. The communications company is to mothball three of its 16-page
web presses as part of a move away from "commoditised" print, .

Relax and soak up the atmosphere at the  which runs 3-9 May at various venues'.
The idea of the Headingley festival originated from a desire to bring our
community together through the focus of music and celebration. is pleased to
announce that the official draw for this year's Leeds African Cup of Nations,
will take place at 6.30pm prompt on Tuesday May 11 at Thomas Danby College.

Students at Leeds University Union have rejected a motion at the referendum
which would have mandated their union to oppose lecturers strikes, says  blog.

Loadsa nice images over at Leeds Savage Club pool on.

A groundbreaking partnership to raise students' awareness of their
responsibilities towards the neighbourhoods they live in is celebrating its
first anniversary and expanding to cover even more of the city's students,
reports .

If you work at a small not-for-profit organisation you can now access a new
specialised service.  provides counselling and emotional support for managers,
and staff working in small voluntary, charity and faith groups in and around
Leeds.

Leeds-based consultancy, is improving access to education for the poorest
citizens of Serbia through a development project funded by the European Union's
Instrument for Pre Accession (IPA) programme. The (EURO)1.8 million project aims
to help the most vulnerable members of society by opening up the education
system at pre-school and elementary levels to children from marginalised groups,
in particular, the Roma community, those with disabilities and refugees.

Poker fans in Yorkshire will be heading to the Alea Casino in Leeds next month
for the for the five Day Alea Spring Poker Festival, says .

Do you have news, views or events to share? Feel free add them to the comments
below or contact me by  or on Twitter .

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 30, 2010 Friday

Up the junction in Battersea

BYLINE: Saptarshi Rayguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 524 words

ABSTRACT

London's most marginal seat sees landmark station take centre stage as contest
goes artistic

FULL TEXT

It seems I am indeed a blessed soul, I have in my hands what has been described
as the "coolest election gismo (sic)". Martin Linton, Battersea's Labour
candidate and the area's MP for 12 years describes his travelcard wallet
giveaway thus.

He adds, , "People were queuing up for them in Clapham Junction today". I got
mine round about 7.50am this morning and can safely say there were no queues
then but I imagine word, texts and tweets must have spread around our corner of
south London.

And why the fuss? What is so special about this wallet? Why it has a picture of
Clapham Junction train station on the front. Had I been thinking about it, I
would have seized the chance to have . I can but try on my way home tonight.

Clapham Junction station is key to this constituency, it employs, services and
marks the area so all the candidates have stances on its development, expansion
and even its name - its  confuses many a reveller or traveller seeking Clapham
proper, which is a mile to the east.

At a hustings last night, three of the candidates covered most of the main
issues - bankers, foreign policy, immigration, Trident and family. With an
electorate made up of transient young professionals mixed in with immigrant and
working class families that once voted Tory but have switched to Labour since
1997, it's easy to forget this is . Labour holds a majority of 332, it's number
nine on the Tory hitlist.

Linton, avuncular and confident, trumpeted his clean record and that he is the
13th lowest-spending MP in the Commons. "There will be no overnight or immediate
withdrawal" he said of Afghanistan. He pointed to an empty chair and said,
"there's the Tory candidate, there's not just three of us here."

Layla Moran, young, bright and Lib Dem, spoke eloquently on immigration. "I'm a
mongrel", she said, referring to her half-Palestinian heritage and youth spent
growing up in Ethiopia, Jamaica and Belgium. She's in favour of a regional and
skills-weighted immigration system. And also toes the party line on getting rid
of nuclear weapons and making big business more accountable.

Hugh Salmon is well-tailored, clean-cut and smooth. A former ad exec, a British
mad man, or should that be Mad Man? He's lived in the constituency for 20 years.
He's very committed to financial regulation as he's seen corporate fraud first
hand. He told many anecdotes from Sweden, Vietnam and Hong Kong. He's a nice
guy, I'd happily have a pint with him. But I don't know if I'd send him to
Westminster.

The hustings itself was hastily convened, it was like a half-empty classroom a
sixth form debate had been earmarked for, only for someone to be having a party
the same night. But it was interesting and important, and this seat should not
be inconsequential.

In the interests of impartiality, you can find the Tory candidate Jane Ellison's
manifesto .

Guy Evans for the Green party .

Tom Fox, another independent, .

And Christopher MacDonald of Ukip .

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

When you call your supporters bigots it's all over...unless you're Nick Griffin

BYLINE: Frankie Boyle

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 702 words


BIGOTGATE. I have to confess I thought that was a shopping centre in Essex.

It was great to see Gordon Brown's interpersonal skills visibly downloading.

It seemed to be the first time he'd met a human being - if someone smiled at me
like that I'd smash them in the forehead with a crucifix.

Brown then went directly to Mrs Duffy's home to prove that he is only human -
which is why it took almost an hour.

It shows how exciting this election is when the highlight of the entire campaign
is an hour long close-up of a closed front door.

I feel sorry for the woman. After all, when she wakes up tomorrow morning she's
going to have a pile of BNP flyers in her hallway so high that the only way
she'll make it into the kitchen is to hire a team of Polish cleaners.

When Brown came out of her house to make a statement to the Press he gave a
strained smile that made his face look like a great white shark having its
prostate examined.

Mrs Duffy had asked the PM an unexpected geography question: "All these Eastern
Europeans what are coming in, where are they flocking from?" Brown gave the
right answer by not slapping her across the face.

There's only one thing the British hate more than being accused of racism - and
that's foreigners.

Where are all the Eastern Europeans coming from? In my experience they're mostly
from Rochdale.

Actually, we haven't seen the woman alive since her house was entered by Gordon
Brown's close security team and MI5.

There's a good chance there is a Labour intern in the house whose job for the
next week is to lift Gillian Duffy's lifeless corpse to the window, wave her
hand, nod her head through the net curtains and cash her pension book.

Brown's heart is not really in this any more.

He spoke to Mrs Duffy for 39 minutes in her house. The last time she will have
had anyone listen so intently to her stories it would have been some bloke
planning to steal all her money - so no change there then.

Once you start calling your own supporters bigots, you know it's pretty much
over. Unless you're Nick Griffin.

Brown spent 39 minutes with the woman when he should have been in a hotel room
in Manchester practising for the televised leadership debate.

Scones

The outcome being that his fiscal policy answers were terrible but his closing
arguments included a quite delicious recipe for scones.

This all resulted from the Labour tactic of getting Gordon to mix with real
people.

For the rest of the election he'll be travelling in a hermetically sealed
Popemobile, handing out leaflets using a slingshot.

The next working class person Brown is going to speak to is the guy moving his
furniture out of No 10 on May 7.

His latest apology over what happened was in an email to Labour Party members.
Although why he attached a picture of his c*** is anybody's guess.

The Tories say they will end violent crime. After five years of Tory government
young people will be too malnourished and broken to experience anger. The thing
about the General Election is we are voting for the whole party, not just the
leader.

To vote in Clegg you have to vote for your local Lib Dem. Remember him? He's
that twitchy, sweating bloke who answered your questions on the economy by
giving your terrified child a yellow balloon.

Nick Clegg wants a hung parliament so badly. Working with the other parties
means he will be able to head a Cabinet that isn't solely staffed by alcoholics
and perverts.

Peppa Pig has been banned from the Labour campaign. Shame, as people like voting
for a cartoon pig - as demonstrated in the London Mayoral election.

With the choice in front of me, I would rather place an "X" on a confession that
I am Jon Venables.

Enough car crash politics. In lighter news, Labour candidate Kathryn Smith has
been arrested after crashing her car into a roundabout.

In the interest of balanced journalism, having reported that story I am now
legally obliged to sever the brake cables of both a Liberal and Conservative
candidate.

UKIP's Nigel Farage's campaign involves sharing a drink with punters in every
pub in his constituency.

He's quite clever. He has thought: "I'm not going to win this, I might as well
have a good time."

His policy on solving the economic crisis involves winning £20 from every quiz
machine.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BNP . . Griffin
STRAIN . .PM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 30, 2010 Friday 1:11 PM GMT

Cameron is edging ahead - but if only someone would get off the middle ground!

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 993 words


At last, we are into the last week of the election campaign. Last night's Great
TelevisionDebate was an improvement on the earlier clashes and I think it was
David Cameron who had improved the most.

The quote of the evening must have been Brown's confident assertion,"I know how
to run the economy".Into the ground, Mr Brown?

I do not think Clegg's line lumping together NuLab and the Tories as the equal
villians came through as well as in the first debates. But he was wise to keep
on about raising the income tax threshold.It ought to be Tory policy.

The EU elephant was not greatly disturbed, but Cameron's firm "No" to the Euro
wrong-footed Clegg.

At leastthat other one, immigration, was given an airing.Clegg came badly
unstuck with his proposed amnesty for illegal immigrants and again exposed that
while we remain in the EU we have no right to control our own frontiers.

Sadly, Cameron let the others run away with things on tax. The constant refrain
from Brown and Clegg that the Tories would rob the poor to pay the rich was not
effectively refuted.

For a while it looked as though there might be a serious debate about debt, but
Brown succeeded once again inconfusing the deficit with the debt mountain.At
least the need for a public-sector pay freeze was mentioned without an outbreak
of hysteria, perhaps because no one really noticed.

All in all, I think Cameron shored up his support by talking about pushing
people off welfare and into work andmaking it pay to work and save - without,
however, being specific about cuts.

There was nothing to infect more electors with Cleggophilia. Perhaps the threat
of a pandemic - like that of swine flu - will prove to have been overdone. And
it was a bad night for NuLab which may have a very seriouslong-term
problem:there was certainly nothing to make Labour's long term core
supportersany better disposed towards Brown.

Barring accidents, it looks as though Cameron is now edging ahead, but whether
far enough to avoid a hung Parliament is another matter.

Oh, for someone to get off the middle ground!

As they say on the examination papers, please read the question bfore writing
your answer.In the sameway it would have been helpful if some of you -
'Sheumais', 'Al Jennings', 'martel', 'orwell 65', 'owdal 180', 'alexnevsky',
'the man with many chins', 'watt tyler', rogerclarke', 'jason 94' and others -
had read what I wrote, or more particularly had not imagined that I had written
what I did not.

I did not say thatBNP should not berepresented in Parliament. Nor for that
matter that UKIP, SNP, the Greens or the Monster Raving Loony Party should not
be represented - nor that they should.As some of you pointed out, that is for
the electors to decide.I was simply surprised that Mr Clegg's party was a
supporter of schemes which would bring that about.

Again,someof you made the point (and Mr. Brown made it by mistake in Rochdale)
that if NuLab ceases to be a patriotic party looking particularly after the
interests of "ordinary hard-working families", another party is likely to move
into that gap in the market.

As ever, I found 'David Jay' represents an interesting point of view.I must not
wish to represent him, buthe did say that is was we British who "allowed two
German wars to take place". Silly me!I thought that the Germans were quite pushy
when they invaded their neighbours, butI learn something new every day.

I think I should refer 'the guvnor' to my blog on climate change.As to the view
of'1291 tax exile' that "PR is the way that most of Europe does it and it
works", I think he might wonder about Greece, Spain, Latviaand Italy for a
start. As to his belief that "UKIP is mad, and dangerous", that seems a touch
arrogant from someone describing himself as a tax exile.Some might think that he
should keep his views on our politics where he keeps what he would have paid in
taxes had he not gone into exile.

Being of a patient and generous disposition, I will try once more to explain
things to poor 'Duckham'. First, I would not defend the Blair/Brown policy in
the Middle East. I hope he will forgive me for my prejudice against terrorists,
and even for thinking there is a lack of reason among those who believe that by
blowing up themselves and as many as possible of their co-religionists, let
alone infidels,they will buy a package trip to paradise. Or even that it is
unwise to leave them in possession of nuclear weapons capable of being deployed
against us whilst we disarm.

'Fingerbob' is right, and as he would know had he been a regular reader of this
blog,I agree that neither, indeed none, of the main parties are being realistic
about debt.And 'toulouse56'is right, too.It is the failure to have had a
Boundary Review conducted bythe Bounday Commission which has stacked the table
against the Tories. 'Jock Mcsporran' is spot on to say that Party HQs are too
powerful and the grassroots activists not powerful enough. 'Dangermouse' is
right, too, and I have constantly said that to position the Conservative Party
on Lib Dem ground was a mistake.

Like 'pragmatist' I looked at "the political compass" and found it ridiculous.
Indeed the choice of answers given to many of the questions were themselves a
nonsense.

'PJWHolland' should not let prejudice distort facts.He may not like it, but the
Falklands War was well managed and fought from first to last. And yes, we were
reducing defence expenditure in my time in Government because Thatcher and
Reagan had concluded the Cold War and we no longer needed so many tanks in
Germany.Nor werewefighting Blair's Wars either.

'Brookse' asked about cutting the size of both Commons and Lords. We could do
so, but in the Commons that would make the backbenches and opposition less
powerful relative to the pay roll vote.We could cull some dead wood in the
Lords, but we cost the taxpayers very little.Personally I would be
financiallybetter offif I was not a Member.

Oh, and a bigwelcome to some new readers.It is nice to have you on board.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Speaking Up for Bercow;
The Speaker, an early champion of modernising the Tory party, merits re-election

SECTION: FEATURES; LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 289 words


When Sally Bercow, the wife of the Commons Speaker, confessed to having been a
binge drinker, many thought her an unnecessary embarrassment to her husband.
Because John Bercow is a man who is more than capable of embarrassing himself.

This is someone who once belonged to the Monday Club, a faction of the Tory
party so odiously right-wing that decent people would handle it only with tongs.
Yet there are good reasons why this newspaper believes that Mr Bercow deserves
to be returned by the voters of Buckingham: reasons that go beyond the antique
convention that dictates that the Speaker stands unopposed in his seat so that
he may continue to serve Parliament. Beyond, too, the fact that the person
seeking to unseat him - UKIP's publicity-craving, perma-blazered Nigel Farage -
is the sort of man to whom people take an instant dislike, because it saves
time; a man so lacking in charisma that he manages to give cravats an even worse
name than they already have. The reason for our endorsement is that Mr Bercow,
whose leftward migration has left his Monday Club days far behind him, was a
Tory moderniser long before David Cameron. He was socially liberal when his
party still wasn't. And he believed in reform of the Commons long before last
year's ugly expenses scandal made it fashionable.

Yes, his oratory can occasionally mutate into pomposity. And yes, there are
issues to be resolved over whether voters in the Speaker's constituency should,
effectively, be disenfranchised by the convention of the Speaker standing
unopposed (it would be logical for him to have the seat for St Stephen's). Mr
Farage accuses Mr Bercow of representing "all that is wrong with British
politics today". Really? We had Mr Farage down for that.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

BUT IN BRUSSELS, THEY PLAN TO SPEND MORE

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES

LENGTH: 332 words


EUROPEAN bureaucrats last night brushed aside the economic crisis - and
announced plans for an astonishing six per cent budget increase.

With governments across Europe imposing swingeing austerity measures, the
European Commission stunned observers by proposing a lavish increase in its own
funding.

Critics last night said Brussels was 'living in cloud cuckoo land'.

They pointed out that the increase comes despite the fact that auditors have
refused to sign off the Commission's accounts for 15 years in a row because of
concerns about fraud.

The bumper increase would see the EU's budget jump by almost 67billion to
6114billion.

Britain is already the second highest net contributor to the EU budget, handing
over a record 67.6billion this year - almost exactly the cost of the entire army
of Brussels penpushers.

A six per cent increase would see this soar by an extra 6450million.

Experts last night pointed out that the final budget is likely to be higher
still as the Commission has not included the cost of setting up the EU's new
diplomatic service, which

Political Correspondent is expected to add billions to the total.

EU Budget Commissioner Janusz Lewandowski said the huge spending increase was
needed to allow Brussels to help aid the economic recovery.

But critics last night said it was astonishing that the EU was seeking a higher
budget at a time of austerity.

Tory Europe spokesman Mark Francois said: 'At a time when taxpayers and their
governments across Europe are having to tighten their belts, the EU needs to do
the same.'

Nigel Farage, MEP for the UK Independence Party, said the European Commission
appeared to be 'living in cloud cuckoo land'.

'With Greece collapsing and budgets tightening across Europe, the European
Commission has demonstrated once again that it is utterly immune from reality,'
he added.

The budget proposals have to be approved by the European Parliament and EU
leaders. But a Brussels source said the 'bulk' of the increase was likely to be
nodded through.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

ANDREW PIERCE

LENGTH: 1036 words


THE STORIES THE SPIN DOCTORS DON'T WANT YOU TO READ

DIMBLEBY'S DEFYING AXE AT THE BEEB

DAVID DIMBLEBY proved, as ever, a skilled master of proceedings in last night's
TV debate for the BBC.

But after a mighty three decades presenting the corporation's election night
coverage, the Beeb's many men in suits were planning their own post-election
reshuffle. Dimbleby, at 71, was in the firing line.

However, the prospect of a hung parliament, which could trigger a second
election later in the year, has stayed the executioner's hand.

'David might not want to go, but there is a feeling on the executive floor that
he should plan a graceful exit,' said my mole at BBC towers. 'But reshuffle talk
is on hold if we are in hung parliament territory.'

The evergreen Dimbleby is also determined to hang on to Question Time, having
missed just one episode in 16 years -- and that was only after he was felled by
his wife's frisky bullock on their Sussex farm.

Which is bad news for Jeremy Paxman, who after 20 years on Newsnight is
desperate to elbow Dimbleby out of the Question Time chair. He faces competition

DAVID CAMERON, in the first TV debate, wore so much make-up he looked like an
advertisement for Orange County. He took no chances last night. He took his own
personal make-up artist. from Andrew Neil, who has routed so many politicians on
his daily politics show that they recently put a cartoon pig in place of a
minister who couldn't face the interrogation.

Kirsty Young, who presents Desert Island Discs, and Newsnight's Emily Maitlis
are also contenders, alongside Radio 2's Jeremy Vine. If the gravellyvoiced John
Humprhys was pensionedoff at the age of 66 many listeners would reach for the
off switch. But he is safe, having signed a new 12-month contract.

The favourite is the left-leaning Jim Naughtie. Some Tories are gunning for him
after he described a hung parliament as the ' balanced parliament' echoing the
language of the Lib Dems. It's why the new nickname for the beeb at Tory HQ is:
Broadcasting Bloody Clegg.

Dimbleby was banned from wearing his favourite tie for the debate because it
clashed with the set. The tie features a purple spider, with a fly in its web.
'I see myself as a spider luring flies into my web! I wanted to wear it, but was
told I couldn't,' he says.

THE humilations just keep coming. Gordon Brown has been dropped from TIME
magazine's list of the world's 100 most influential people. Despite his claims
to be a world statesman, who fixed the international banking crisis, the Prime
Minister was snubbed even though the singer Lady Gaga, 23, made her first
appearance.

Other Brits ahead of the Labour leader included were the comedian Ricky Gervais,
the graffiti artist turned director Banksy, Simon

Cowell and Sir

Elton John.

There was some consolation for

Brown --

Cameron and Clegg were also left off the list.

NIGEL FARAGE, the Ukip candidate against John Bercow, the shortest (at 5ft 5in)
and potentially shortestlived Speaker, was thrilled to secure the backing of the
former Tory MP Sir John Wells. But is it a mixed blessing?

During one election in Sir John's former Maidstone constituency, his son walked
into the rival Labour campaign HQ and offered his services for the day
delivering leaflets. Wells junior walked out with a huge bundle of them and
later boasted that he dumped them round the corner.

Is the father taking a leaf out of his son's book?

I SPY . . .

LET'S hope Nick Clegg was better prepared for the debate than he was for his
encounter with students in Birmingham. Asked about voting at 16, Clegg showed
his ignorance when he said: 'If you can sign up and are old enough to die for
your country, you should be old enough to vote.' FACT: You can sign up at 16 ½
but are not put into a theatre of war till you're 18!

MR GREEDY PAYS THE PRICE . . .

TOM WATSON, one of Gordon Brown's thuggish cronies, is paying the price for the
MPs expenses scandal.

The Tory Alistair Thompson, fighting to replace him as MP for West Bromwich, has
released a leaflet poking fun at his heavyweight opponent. 'I don't think it's
right to expect the taxpayer to pay for trips to Tesco.'

Watson (right), who regularly claimed the maximum allowance on food, once spent
so much on a grocery spree the store gave him a complimentary pizza-cutting
wheel.

Judging by his girth, he eats the pizzas whole.

NICK CLOG, ALREADY THE LADYKILLER AT 17

IN velvet smoking jacket, a 17-year-old Nick Clegg prepares to take the lead
role in a school production of Blithe Spirit.

Nicknamed Clog by Westminster School classmates because his mother was Dutch, he
portrayed urbane society man Charles Condomine in the Noel Coward play.

His character declares at one point: 'If you're trying to compile an inventory
of my sex life, I feel it only fair to warn you that you've omitted several
episodes. I shall consult my diary and give you a complete list after lunch.'

Many years later, Mr Clegg was to boast in an interview that he had made love to
as many as 30 women.

It was a claim that suggested he was proud of his promiscuity, and brought
embarrassment to his wife Miriam.

TO THE CONFESSIONAL, NICK

PHILIP PULLMAN, author of the bestselling His Dark Materials, was one of the
notables who signed a letter in The Guardian extolling the virtues of Clegg.

Has the Lib Dem leader, who has gone from 'atheist' to ' agnostic' in time for
polling day, told his wife Miriam? Mrs Clegg, a staunch Catholic, is raising
their three sons to worship in her Church.

Given that Pullman said recently 'I hope the wretched Catholic Church will
vanish entirely', Mrs Clegg may not be too keen on her husband's celebrity
supporter.

AS BROWN sinks further in the ratings, he must be pleased that he has the
backing of Flora Bagenal, a Channel 4 interview producer. One of her tweets
during the first leader's debate said: 'Bored now, when's Brown going to lamp
the posh tw*t." Which posh one was she referring to -- Westminster
Schooleducated Clegg or Old Etonian Cameron. I think we know the answer to that.

BET OF THE DAY

'DAVID CAMERON first to say 'bigot' in last night's TV debate.

Evens, PaddyPower

QUOTE OF THE DAY

'Do you think we can have our microphone back.'

Sky's Kay Burley to Lord Mandelson, who couldn't give it back quick enough.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CLASH of the DAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 65 words


A ROW has broken out between UK Independence Party members and their leader
after he asked supporters to vote against his own party.

UKIP's South West branch slammed boss Lord Pearson for suggesting Eurosceptic
constituents should instead back the Conservatives in three Somerset seats.

He believes they stand a better chance of not joining the Euro by using their
vote to back David Cameron.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Police investigate Labour candidate's Twitter postal vote gaffe

BYLINE: David Battyguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 427 words

ABSTRACT

Kerry McCarthy apologises after revealing sample of postal votes in a tweet to
her 5,700 followers on microblogging site

FULL TEXT

Police are investigating a possible breach of electoral law after Labour's new
media tsar, Kerry McCarthy, revealed postal vote figures on Twitter.

McCarthy, who is defending her Bristol East seat, could face six months in
prison or a £5,000 fine after posting the results of some 300 votes to her 5,700
followers.

The Labour MP said she was "kicking herself" over the post, which has now been
deleted. Her tweet said: "First PVs opened in east Bristol, our sample: UKIP **;
TUSC**; BNP ** Lib Dem **; Tory **; Labour **. £gameON!"

An Avon and Somerset police spokeswoman confirmed the matter was being
investigated. She said: "Bristol city council have contacted Avon and Somerset
police this evening about a possible alleged breach of electoral law. The matter
is currently being looked in to."

It is illegal to reveal the votes cast before the end of polling day as this may
influence the outcome of the election.

An Electoral Commission spokeswoman said candidates who see the front of a
ballot paper "must maintain the secrecy of voting".

Publishing the details of a count can lead to a fine or a prison sentence of up
to six months, according to section 66A of the Representation of the People Act.

Bristol city council said the incident was an alleged breach of the act and was
a "criminal matter".

McCarthy said: "I was pretty silly to do it; it was just thoughtless, I was
being over-exuberant."

She said it was "ironic" because "only yesterday I was thinking about how
everyone said that Twitter would be where the gaffes would be and I kept saying
there was more chance of it happening on the road. Yesterday was a classic
example of that."

The prime minister's encounter with Gillian Duffy in Rochdale, after which he
was caught describing the Labour supporter as a bigot, had been "pretty awful",
she said.

In a statement released by Labour, McCarthy added: "It was a thoughtless thing
to do, and I very quickly realised that it was not appropriate to put such
information in the public domain.

"Because this was not official information, and no votes had been counted, I
thought of it as being akin to canvass returns, ie telling people how well we
were doing with Labour promises on the doorstep, but I appreciate now it was
wrong to do so."

She added that the returning officer at Bristol city council had advised that it
would not be lawful for anyone else to publish the information, for example, by
re-posting her tweet.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: Alice-Azania Jarvis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 431 words


Catch him if you can

Early bird? Anders Fogh Rasmussen is.

The former prime minister of Denmark, left, now secretary general of the Nato,
has begun to take his out-of-hours exercise in the small hours of the morning.

According to a Pandora mole, the "most handsome (ex) prime minister in Europe"
(as Silvio Berlusconi, the prime minister of Italy, once christened him) could
recently be found jogging through one foreign city at four in the morning.

"He's very fit - physically, I mean," says our source.

"But his travelling schedule can be so busy that he has begun taking his
exercise at odd times of day to fit it in," the source said.

Indeed, Mr Rasmussen, pictured, is renowned for his stamina; has been known to
invite his Facebook friends to run alongside him, and once completed the
difficult Alpe d'Huez stage of the 2008 Tour de France.

Apparently, his latest habit has alarmed body guards, since all are too unfit to
keep up with him.

Too many pastries?

Hoult's in at the deep end

Filming Tom Ford's directorial debut - the adaptation of Christopher Isherwood's
novel A Single Man - Nicholas Hoult, right, was required to strip naked and wade
into the sea at night with Colin Firth. The scene has had certain repercussions.
"I still get messages saying, 'Fancy a swim?'," the young actor was heard to
complain at the Sanderson Hotel's 10-year anniversary party. "But I need that
banter - it keeps me grounded."

DRUMMING up familial support, Zac Goldsmith, the cherubic Conservative candidate
for Richmond Park, has his mother, Annabel Vane-Tempest, and sister, Jemima,
pounding the pavements on his behalf. Even better, Jemima has been tweeting
about it. She writes: "My Mum: 'Darling, it's going marvellously. But what's a
ponce?'." Ah, perhaps not.

PANDORA had no problem running the London Marathon (cough). Not so Gordon
Ramsay, who had to be carried off mid-way through. Sarah Symonds, his alleged
former mistress (and one-time squeeze of Lord Archer), was unimpressed.

"Our ginger Scottish chef friend looked awful," she said. "I'm worried for his
health. He's not half as fit as when I knew him."

Collins commits herself to Cameron

A LESSON in etiquette, now, from Joan Collins. Don't ask what she is up to. "I
won't talk about it," she barks. "The last time I did, the movie was cancelled."
She will, however, tell you who she's voting for; her historic antipathy for
David Cameron is no more. "I hope he gets in," she says. Collins, left, was once
outed as a patron of Ukip but, as she said at the time, being a patron doesn't
mean voting for them. Apparently.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

NEVIN'S NOTES;
An alternative take on the election

BYLINE: CHARLES NEVIN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words


Bigot latest

Sometimes, under the stress of the moment, in the middle of a gruelling
campaign, in an unguarded moment, journalists can, unforgivably, fail to take
things seriously enough. Thus, as all eyes were trained on Mrs Duffy's white
front door in Rochdale, with the Prime Minister inside and the minutes ticking
by, a voice was heard to say: "He's probably promising her a Polish cleaner."

I also have some less bad news for Mr Brown: as far as I can discover, there is
only one person called Bigot in the country, no roads and only one village -
Marston Bigot, in Somerset - which is pretty small.

Chicken!

The bad news for the Tories is that the chickens are multiplying. A hot source
from the Daily Mirror, whence they issue, confirmed yesterday that there are no
fewer than three of the fowls ranging free around the country, ready to cross
the road and clutch any opportunity to confront top Tories. Ken Clarke was
caught on Tuesday, while lunching al fresco on what looked like a highly
relevant toasted sandwich. Rumour and counter-rumour fly. The Tories are
suspected of laying a false trail the same day, luring a chicken to Blackpool
while Mr Cameron was in fact on his way to Bury. My supreme source emphatically
denies this. Let's see who cracks first. Note: What does D Cameron say every
time he passes by the unfeathered standard Daily Mirror reporter following him?
"Cluck-cluck".

Sod the lot, indeed

Lord Pearson, the leader of the UK Independence Party, has written to a Somerset
newspaper group advising its readers to vote Tory in three constituencies,
without, apparently, telling his own candidates. This might be the time for
further views from his lordship based on a revelation he received while being
operated on in 1977 for varicose veins: "I take on the Christians because they
believe that God must inevitably win. My instruction was different, that he is
not necessarily going to win, as far as this planet is concerned, anyway, and if
you look at our planet today it isn't obvious that he is winning." Can't argue
with that. Next!

Can it get any worse?

I'm afraid so. I have been investigating a claim that 6 May could be an
auspicious day for the Labour Party because it is also the feast of St Prudence.
So far, though, I have been able only to establish that 6 May is National Crêpes
Suzette Day and National Prayer Day, both of which appear to be confined to the
United States. Of St Prudence, I can find no record in the Oxford Dictionary of
Saints. Perhaps someone in the Foreign Office can help.

c.nevin@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Feature - The CPB difference;
The Morning Star profiles three Communist Party candidates looking to bring
about progressive change

LENGTH: 1027 words


The Communist Party differs sharply from the main pro-capitalist parties in its
foreign and defence policies. Party candidates all report a positive response to
its unambiguous call to withdraw British troops from Afghanistan immediately.

The party's general election manifesto argues that "an endless series of wars
and occupations, from the former Yugoslavia to Iraq and Afghanistan, have
brought death and disaster in their wake on a massive scale."

It points out that "millions of people have been forced to flee their homeland,
hundreds of thousands have been killed - many by the Western forces supposedly
sent to 'liberate' them."

The Communists are also uncompromising in their opposition to nuclear weapons,
including any renewal or replacement of Britain's Trident nuclear weapons
system.

Rejecting the right-wing, anti-foreigner stance of the UK Independence Party,
Communist candidates are campaigning against the drive to a "monopoly
capitalist, militarist United States of Europe."

This is the perspective in which the party condemns recent anti-trade union
judgements by the EU Court of Justice.

Justice for the people of Palestine does not feature as an election issue for
the mass media and the pro-imperialist main parties.

The Communist Party on the other hand demands sanctions against Israel if no
progress is made towards implementing UN resolutions.

Along with solidarity with Cuba, Venezuela and trade unionists in Colombia, it
forms part of what the Communists believe should be an "independent foreign and
defence policy" for Britain.

NEWCASTLE-UPON-TYNE EAST

This was once a constituency of engineers and shipbuilders. Today's residents
are more likely to be students at the city's two universities.

Public services account for more than one-third of jobs in the region.

Not surprisingly then, Communist Party candidate Martin Levy is campaigning hard
against public service cuts and student top-up fees.

"The People's Charter embodies many of the policies we need to protect public
services, invest in manufacturing and redistribute wealth," he points out.

The sitting MP is government chief whip Nick Brown. But the Communists have been
gunning primarily for the scare-mongering policies of the BNP candidate.

"This is a cosmopolitan community, with many black and Asian students and some
asylum-seekers who deserve our solidarity," Levy argues.

He refused to attend a school hustings and share a platform with fascists. The
head teacher later declined to invite the BNP because children of asylum-seekers
attended his school.

But the Communist candidate's policies were well received at hustings organised
by the PCS civil servants' union. Science lecturer Levy is well known in the
trade union movement on Tyneside as a branch and trades council officer.

The party's town centre stall also attracted some support from passers-by who
liked the Communist manifesto slogan, "Britain for the people not the bankers -
make the fat cats pay!"

The local media may have shut out the Communist Party, but international
business journal The Economist thought it worthwhile carrying a recent interview
with Levy.

He has also discovered common ground with a Ukip school hustings candidate, who
referred to xenophobic Ukip leader Nigel Farage as "a twat."

GLASGOW EAST

Leading Young Communist League member Marc Livingstone knows all about his
party's proud record defending jobs on Red Clydeside.

Car cavalcades flying the hammer and sickle still get a thumbs up in this
overwhelmingly working-class constituency with its one surviving shipyard.

"Today's battles are the same ones we will always have to fight until we abolish
capitalism - the fight for jobs, decent housing, dignity in retirement,"
Livingstone says.

But he doesn't expect much help from sitting new Labour MP John Robertson, "a
friend of imperialism and enemy of the working class who has voted for
privatisation, a new generation of nuclear weapons and the wars in Iraq and
Afghanistan."

At the same time, Livingstone makes clear his party's preference for a Labour
government rather than a Tory one.

Youth unemployment and privatisation of services for the disabled and the
elderly are top of the Communists' local campaigning agenda.

But they are also calling for a job diversification programme, as supported by
the Scottish TUC, instead of spending £75 billion on renewing or replacing
Trident.

With a large community of asylum-seekers in Knightswood, the Communist Party is
working hard to counter the myths and bigotry of the BNP.

Its candidate has appeared on a film at an extreme right-wing rally delivering
nazi-style salutes.

Livingstone's team prefer the clenched red fist salute used by three generations
of Clydeside Communists.

SHEFFIELD SOUTH EAST

Librarian and long-standing community activist Steve Andrew is spearheading the
first Communist election campaign in Sheffield for decades.

His battleground is a working-class, multicultural constituency which takes in
large swathes of the city's former industrial heartland.

Some manufacturing and engineering units have survived the Thatcher era, but
more jobs can now be found in the low-paid retail parks and call centres.

"Our city's industrial base needs to be rebuilt through directed public and
private investment, with many more full-time jobs and training places," Andrew
says.

He also calls for more council houses to be built, rather than the priority
given to luxury private estates.

Better housing and social facilities, especially for young people, are needed in
run-down areas of Darnall, Tinsley and Attercliffe, where the BNP is trying to
blame the Asian and east European communities for decades of Tory and new Labour
neglect.

Sitting MP Clive Betts is defending a huge 22,000 majority and a voting record
which includes backing the whole new Labour neoliberal and pro-war agenda.

But the Communists are taking the political battle of ideas into the shopping
centres and onto the doorsteps.

"We reject the case for public spending cuts and privatisation and the racist
campaign to scapegoat ethnic minority workers and residents.

"Communist politics is about fighting for real solutions to the problems of
capitalism," Andrew declares.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 29, 2010 Thursday

Letter - In praise of the SSP and SNP

LENGTH: 267 words


My experience of assisting in one candidate's campaign tells me that the major
characteristics of this election are apathy and incompetence.

The response of the general public to public meetings and campaigning activity
has been woeful, with attendances at meetings being in the region of 20 to 30
people and activists having to work very hard to have the public accept their
party's election literature.

This is understandable given that all the main parties are threatening the
electorate with unemployment, greater poverty and poorer services.

The sheer incompetence of most of the candidates at meetings is hard to believe.

At one hustings the Ukip candidate, attempting to represent a constituency with
an economically inactive population of 30 per cent, admitted that he knew
nothing about DWP crisis loans, the Liberal candidate had such a grasp of new
technology that he did not know if the microphone was on or off on three
separate occasions, and the Labour candidate, parachuted in by HQ over the heads
of local party members, could hardly string three sentences together and was
guilty of numerous pregnant pauses.

The Tory admitted that he worked in the public sector yet still supported
extensive cuts in public expenditure, reminding all present about turkeys voting
for Christmas.

The only saving grace was the competence and ability of the SNP and SSP
candidates.

Despite their heroic efforts, it is no wonder that our "democratic system" is
disappearing down the drain and that the turnout locally in the election is
heading for a figure of somewhat under 40 per cent.

RAYMOND MENNIE, Dundee.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 29, 2010 Thursday 12:56 PM GMT

Another scandalous Labour insult, and the reason the BNP do well

BYLINE: By Douglas Murray

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 250 words


I've just come across something whichrevealseven more than Brown's "bigot"
remark the contempt in which the Labourelite holdthe people of this country.

The Harrow Times relates the story of a debate last week betweenthe
fourcandidates for the seat of Harrow East: Tony McNulty for Labour, a Tory, a
Lib Dem and a UKIP candidate.

Now as it happens, I know the UKIP candidate a little.His name isAbhijit Pandya.
He is a fellowinlaw at the LSE. As well as being academicallydistinguished, he
is hugely intelligentandlikeable.He is also admirably unafraid of tackling
difficult issues.That is,he is exactly the sort of person who would make the
House of Commons a better place.

According to the local paper, during the Harrow debate Abhijit said that inthis
countryBritish culture should be put first. Healsosaid that the policy
ofmulticulturalism "is a bad thing" because of the segregation it causes.

For this McNulty declared that Abhijit had "forgotten his roots". McNulty then
accused Abhijit of being "the BNP in a suit".

I didn't think Brown's "bigot" remark could be bettered for showing the Labour
high command's contempt for the people of this country as well astheir desperate
attempt to stop anyoneeven pointing outthe societalruination they are leading us
to.

Polling shows that it is disgruntled Tories whotend to go UKIP.But it is
disgruntled Labour voters who go towards the British National Party. PutBrownand
McNulty's recent performances together and you can see why that is.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Salmond debate ban breaks BBC rules, court told

BYLINE: Simon Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 323 words


BLOCKING Alex Salmond from the final televised leaders' debate tomorrow is
"inherently unfair" and the BBC should be forced to include him, Scotland's
highest civil court has heard. SNP lawyers told the Court of Session in
Edinburgh that the criteria used to decide who should take part were
"unreasonable and discriminatory". The SNP lodged papers requesting that the
court order the BBC to include Mr Salmond in the third debate or an extra fourth
programme alongside Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

Failing this, the SNP wants the BBC barred from broadcasting tomorrow's debate
in Scotland. Lady Smith is expected to make a ruling today. Gordon Brown said it
was right to omit Mr Salmond as he was not a candidate for Prime Minister.

SNP strategists think their leader's exclusion has hurt their election chances,
as support for the Liberal Democrats has surged after Nick Clegg's strong
performances.

The hearing began yesterday after the SNP raised £50,000 in two days to fight
the legal battle. Nicola Sturgeon, the party's deputy leader, lodged papers with
the court.

"We are asking the court to recognise our demand for fairness," she said.

"The debate cannot and should not be allowed to go ahead while it excludes one
of the main political parties in Scotland." Mungo Bovey QC, for the SNP, began
the hearing by arguing that the party's exclusion was "unreasonable and
discriminatory" and contrary to BBC rules on impartiality.

He told Lady Smith that other television airtime, or "balancing coverage", given
to the party has been "inadequate".

But, speaking during a campaign stop in Stirling, Mr Brown said: "I don't think
the SNP are claiming any one of their members can be Prime Minister of Britain
after the general election."

The UK Independence Party (UKIP) backed the SNP's legal action and threatened to
follow suit unless the BBC agreed by noon today to include its leader, Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, in the debate.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Speaker warned for not paying his £600 bar bill;
Bercow was told that credit would be withdraw, according to leaked documents
from the Commons ; EXPENSES

BYLINE: Holly Watt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 498 words


THE Speaker of the House of Commons has been formally warned for failing to pay
his parliamentary restaurant and bar bill, documents leaked to The Daily
Telegraph have disclosed.

John Bercow owed more than £600 for taxpayer-subsidised food and drink in the
Palace of Westminster. He was sent two letters warning him that the money was
due and was told that he might have his credit facilities within Parliament
removed.

The House of Commons has blocked the publication of information relating to MPs'
unpaid bar bills until after the election.

The information was requested under the Freedom of Information Act last
September, but the Commons would only disclose that last summer 329 MPs owed
£138,046 between them. Authorities refused to name the individual MPs, who had
run up bills averaging £419.

In a letter to Mr Bercow sent at the end of March, the Financial Controller of
the House of Commons informed the Speaker that the "account, which now amounts
to £601.45, has items which have been outstanding for at least two months".

He warned Mr Bercow "that accounts remaining outstanding for more than two
months may be drawn to the attention of the Speaker and that we may withdraw
credit facilities".

If credit facilities are withdrawn from an MP, they must pay in advance for
Commons services. Mr Bercow was offered several ways to pay the bill, including
cheque, debit card or "in person at the Cash Office, located near Annie's Bar in
the Palace of Westminster".

A spokesman for Mr Bercow said yesterday that the Speaker had paid his bill in
April, after the Freedom of Information request was blocked.

Mr Bercow is facing a serious challenge for re-election in his Buckingham
constituency.

Despite the convention that the main parties do not field candidates against the
Speaker, his seat is being contested by UKIP's Nigel Farage and by John Stevens,
whose campaign is backed by Martin Bell, the former independent MP for Tatton.
Mr Farage, who was the leader of UKIP, said: "This is supposed to be the
honourable election. How can people be trusted to clean up Parliament if they
can't even pay their bar bills?" Mr Stevens, who is a former Conservative MEP,
said: "It is clear from the reaction we are getting locally to Mr Bercow's
expenses that he has been drinking in the last chance saloon."

Although Mr Bercow had one of the largest Conservative majorities in the country
at the last election, he angered supporters by winning the contest to be Speaker
through Labour support.

His wife, Sally, who is seeking election as a London Labour councillor, has also
attracted controversy.

Yesterday Mrs Bercow was forced to backtrack after declaring on the
micro-blogging service Twitter that she had been "heckled by a couple of smack
heads in a stairwell" while campaigning. Mrs Bercow, who is standing in Pimlico,
deleted the comments, then posted: "Wish I hadn't used term smack head now -
gives wrong impression. Pls don't think I'm being judgmental - def not as far as
drugs concerned."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Bercow and the second warning letter he received

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

Comment: Let Clegg enjoy his moment. Next week the horror begins: A coalition
will split his own party and make no progress on PR. His best bet is to grab a
plum job and quit the Lib Dems

BYLINE: Simon Jenkins

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1073 words


Poor Nick Clegg. He is about to have the worst month of his political life.
Lauded to the skies as another Churchill, another Obama, a weather changer and a
kingmaker, he must know that this is as good as it gets. Next week he may be
hanging a parliament, but from the moment he does, it will hang him.

Centre parties in coalitions rarely live long to tell the tale. Attempts at
leverage over coalitions devastated the Liberals at Westminster throughout the
20th century and have since wrecked their fortunes in Scottish and Welsh
parliaments. There is no reason why the 21st century should be different,
however frantically political commentators want it make it so. The truth is that
a kingmaker is never a king. Once in power kings acquire leverage of their own.

The most likely - but by no means certain - outcome of the election is a House
of Commons in which the Conservatives have the most MPs, and the Liberal
Democrats nowhere near as many as either them or Labour. Whatever Clegg said on
Monday about it being "inexplicable" for a minority of popular votes to decide a
government, this applies equally to him. British government is based not on
popular votes but on the electoral college of parliament. That is the
constitution. Those who want "every vote to count" should demand not
proportional representation but a single national vote for a national leader, as
in mainland Europe, with a separately elected assembly if they want one.

Clegg's moment of power will be ecstatic but brief. He will experience two
immediate horrors. As he struggles to decide who should be prime minister he
will find the only "non-negotiable" item in his locker is one that both big
parties are bound to reject: any form of proportional representation that will
put them always in this position after each election, with the Liberal Democrats
as sole electoral college. Clegg might win a referendum promise or some vague
alternative vote in each constituency. But Labour and Conservative politicians
are not thick. They are unlikely to commit suicide.

The other handicap is more serious. From the moment Clegg does make a deal on
whatever basis, he is chained to delivering on it. That means whipping his own
party in support of one or other party that his MPs have just fought bitterly at
a general election - and may have to fight again soon.

Throughout the 20th century, resulting splits were the curse of the Liberal
party. Since the rise of Labour, the party represented no interest or coherent
point of view, merely the disparate ambitions of its leaders and MPs at
Westminster, starting with Lloyd George. Each Liberal MP tended to be
beneficiary of some local "Clegg effect", but at Westminster the party depended
on the patronage of the BBC, always giving it equal time to the other two
parties while excluding the nationalists.

In good times Liberals have benefited from vagueness, being - as now - a perfect
magnet for protest votes. It has been strong on the Celtic fringe, in Liverpool
and Southwark, in Orpington and Sheffield Hallam, in suburbs and inner cities,
rich and poor. But in bad times this diffuseness has been a weakness. It has
kept Liberals out of national power in Britain for the best part of a century
and denied it the disciplines required of government.

The party justifiably trumpets the strides it has made in local government. But
predominant Con-Lib Dem coalition councils tend to be composed of like minds,
and their decisions are largely managerial. When the Liberal Democrats were
invited to form a coalition in Wales in May 2007, they immediately split
left/right and disappeared into the wilderness.

If Clegg takes his party into a coalition with either Gordon Brown or David
Cameron, his whips would be in disarray inside six months. Half his MPs regard
Labour as anathema and the other half hate the Tories - largely depending on
which party poses the biggest threat to individual MPs locally. Liberal Democrat
spokesmen who are offered and take coalition office would be imprisoned by
collective responsibility. They would either resign early or seek political
asylum by crossing the floor.

This will be a tough parliament. Clegg will find himself having to defend
coalition decisions weekly, to mostly enraged MPs probably facing an early
return to the polls. The same would apply even under a looser, 1977-style
convention of Commons support. It is hard enough for governments to whip their
own MPs. Clegg's ability to deliver a united Liberal Democrat group to the party
in power would be stretched to the limit. He would then be blamed for driving
the country back to the polls.

Most centre parties either represent some territorial interest, as in Germany,
or they merely garner protest votes. The Liberals failed in the 1960s to
capitalise on their ancient loyalties on the Celtic fringe, being seduced by
suburban success at Orpington. They failed to grasp the most obvious chance open
to them, of replacing Labour as the natural party of the left, though with the
Social Democrats in 1981-2 they came near to it. They have shilly-shallied with
being centre-left, half-left, progressive, radical, localist, but never ramming
any punch home.

The most likely beneficiary of a hung parliament will be not the Lib Dems but
other minority groups who want something specific and deliverable, and can give
disciplined support to a government. After the Liberal deal collapsed in 1978 it
was the Ulster Unionists who won five extra seats from the dying Callaghan
government. The Scots and Welsh won subsidy concessions.

The Liberal Democrats did brilliantly to induce the BBC to concede Clegg equal
status with Brown and Cameron, though the bias is extraordinary when seen from
Edinburgh, Cardiff or Belfast. But in the new parliament power may move to the
nationalists and specific interest groups such as the Greens and Ukip. Added
leverage will also be claimed by splinter groups inside whichever party takes
power, the Labour left and Tory right. That is the message of Israel's
entrenched hung parliaments.

Clegg will have his election-night glory and will deserve it. He has played a
blinder. But amid the turbulent necessities of government, the political waters
will soon close over his head. His best bet is to grab a good job from whichever
leader offers it, and wave a cheery goodbye to the party of lost cause that he
now leads. That is what Churchill did in like circumstances.

simon.jenkins@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

Campaign 2010: Battlegrounds: The pig vote: Where does Peppa's political
allegiance lie?

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 408 words


It is the UK equivalent of those soul-searching American inquiries about what
sort of car Jesus would drive: who would Peppa Pig vote for?

It is, like the Jesus question, unanswerable, if not quite imponderable. Peppa
Pig (pictured) wishes to remain above politics, to the extent that the cartoon
pig pulled out of a Labour event to promote Sure Start centres (although Peppa
Pig does support Sure Start), for fear of courting controversy.

The other thing that makes this question difficult to answer is Peppa Pig
herself. Even in the broadest ideological terms, she remains a cipher. She's
part of a traditional family unit - Mummy Pig, Daddy Pig, brother George (also a
pig) - but that's where tradition ends. Mummy Pig spends her spare time working
as a volunteer firefighter, perhaps indicating a receptiveness to David
Cameron's vision of Big Society, while Daddy Pig goes out barbecuing with his
mates. You can see where the plot of that particular episode is heading.

Heretofore Peppa Pig's most overtly political statement was a very public
failure to wear a seat belt, the sort of "I can kill myself if I feel like it"
libertarian thinking displayed by many UKIP sympathisers.

Peppa has, in cartoon animal terms, a fairly cosmopolitan circle of friends.
There's a dog, and a rabbit, and a cat. Most of her pals are indigenous
creatures, but there's also a zebra in there, and her teacher appears to be an
antelope with a French accent.

So one could argue that some of her best friends are immigrants, although if you
stretch the analogy too far, the episode where they all have their faces painted
like tigers takes on a disturbing new dimension.

We can deduce that Peppa Pig would not vote for any of the minor anti-European,
anti-immigrant parties. Although she recycles avidly, we cannot assume she votes
Green, because her skilful avoidance of a set-piece Labour event demonstrates
she is nothing if not tactical. Her support for Sure Start alone probably rules
out a Tory vote, since the Conservatives have not committed to protecting them.

That only leaves Labour, the Liberal Democrats and, if they wish to go to court
over it, the SNP.

Peppa almost certainly favours one of the first two, but which one? Such clues
that remain are ambiguous: she wears a red dress, but she lives in a yellow
house. On balance, I would say the house wins, but unless she turns up on
Question Time after Thursday's debate, we will probably never know for sure.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

Vote Liberal! No, the other Liberals

BYLINE: Sholto Byrnesguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 716 words

ABSTRACT

Sholto Byrnes: The Liberal party may not greatly trouble the national radar, but
it has some excellent policies

FULL TEXT

If you believe in a fully-funded community-based NHS, abandoning our nuclear
weapons, the restoration of student grants, rendering both private health and
education irrelevant by making public services truly excellent, and you're a
Eurosceptic, who on earth can you vote for?

Answer: the Liberal party. No, not the Liberal Democrats - I refer to the band
of Liberals, then including the former MP , who refused to join the new party
formed after the merger with the SDP in 1988. "A rump? A joke?" I hear you ask.
Well, the Liberals have 26 elected councillors. In the 1997 and 2001 general
elections they came second in the constituency of  - quite an achievement for a
party that, one has to admit, has little troubled the national radar.

True, it is only fielding five parliamentary candidates this time. It may be
that  is higher amongst these hold-out Liberals than in the population at large.
(Although given that New Labour led the way in the removal of facial hair -
remember the 'taches Hoon, Mandelson and Darling used to sport? - that may be no
bad thing). Some of them, alas, may even retain an unfashionable faiblesse for
that old Liberal stock in trade, the sock-and-sandal combo.

But equally true is the fact that if they are hold-outs, then what they have
held out for are policies that many on the left never imagined would one day be
consigned to the margins, and labelled foolish and utopian by both Labour and
the Lib Dems. Some may even feel quite delighted to hear them being advocated
again.

Here are some of the Liberal party's stated aims:

· Unilateral nuclear disarmament

· The market as our servant, not our master

· Fundamental reform of the European Union, ending protectionist, illiberal
common agricultural and fisheries policies. No to the euro

· Abolition of a national curriculum imposed by Whitehall, league tables and all
Sats

· Returning the water and rail industries to public ownership

· The creation of a world in which national boundaries and prejudices offer no
barriers

· High standards of education and health made available without charge

Liberals are concerned at the continuing erosion of this principle. They say:
"People are not battery chickens: health and educational standards aren't
improved just because artificial targets are met; students aren't 'made' clever
because universities are forced to admit them; crimes don't go away just because
the government makes things 'more' illegal; freedom is not protected by making
citizens register with the state."

I could, but won't, go on - those interested can find further details of their
policies . Apart from a rather illiberal line on tobacco advertising and their
somewhat eccentric, although touching, belief that Esperanto still has a future,
I find myself in complete agreement with the Liberals' policies. I read the
preamble to the old party's constitution, which the Liberals have retained, and
its opening words still quicken the blood: "The Liberal party exists to build a
Liberal Society in which every citizen shall possess liberty, property and
security, and none shall be enslaved by poverty, ignorance or conformity."

Radical, but not socialist. Fiercely individualist, but in the context of a
society where the welfare state is a cathedral. Tick, tick. Some would say that,
because they are small, a vote for them would be a wasted vote. We've heard that
before, about the Green party and about Ukip. Both now have MEPs and
councillors, and would certainly have a healthy showing at Westminster under any
form of proportional representation. I'm willing to bet that a proportional
system would see Liberal MPs in parliament, too.

But the defeatist old argument that pretends the only choice is between Labour
and the Tories has been thoroughly discredited during this campaign. Isn't the
story of this election - demonstrated by the spectacular surge in support of the
Liberal Democrats - that the real wasted vote is that cast for the party you do
not agree with? So, back to the future. Vote for Britain's oldest political
party - the Liberals!

·

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday

'Bigot' jibe exposes disconnect between politicians and voters

BYLINE: John Harrisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 804 words

ABSTRACT

John Harris: The political elite has never taken much notice of ordinary people
- no wonder Brown showed contempt for Gillian Duffy

FULL TEXT

I've just spent half an hour on the phone to various Labour party people, and
here is the not-exactly-revelatory upshot: "" - if you want to call it that - is
beyond grim. Even if the prospect of David Cameron fighting the corner of
once-loyal working-class Labour voters sounds absurd, that's what will surely
define tomorrow night's debate: egged on by tomorrow morning's headlines (and
get ready for a real peach from the Sun), the moneyed Old Etonian carpeting the
son of the manse for his failure to understand the concerns of ordinary folk.
Note also the part of the story that plays to Brown's alleged bullying side: his
attempt to  on some hapless member of his own staff.

The incident perfectly captures a plotline that I've observed time and again,
not least as we've been travelling around the country during the campaign:
millions of people who are confused, unsettled, and often ragingly angry, faced
with a political class that affects to feel their pain, but too often holds them
in borderline contempt. What with the rise in support for the BNP - and that
great chasm that divides too much of the country from richer corners of the
capital - the metropolitan media is part of the same problem. It tends to
portray them as latter-day Alf Garnetts, nostalgic for a world long gone, and
fired up by the kind of prejudices that have no place in London W1 or W11.

In fact, as Gillian Duffy proves, their concerns are a mixture of right and
left-ish stuff, much of it traceable to the fact that as Britain has gone
through convulsive change after convulsive change, nobody in power has ever
bothered giving them much of an explanation. They base their ire on
neighbourhoods that have been radically altered, a state that often seems to
operate according to its own distant logic, and the absence of the kind of
collectivist politics they feel Labour has left behind as it chases the votes of
people in supposedly affluent marginals.

Of late, I've talked to them time and again. In South Shields: the builder whose
hourly rate had come down by £3 an hour once the construction trade turned to
recently arrived Poles. In Blackpool: Delwyn and Sylvia, who stuck to a Daily
Mail-esque line on crime and immigration, but fretted about how people manage to
live on the minimum wage.

Duffy, let's not forget, lives in Rochdale, another place far from the Middle
English milieu at which so much of our politics is aimed. She doesn't understand
why her pension is taxed, and says she isn't eligible for pension credits, but
also thinks the welfare state is a soft touch. She wonders where "all these
eastern Europeans" are coming from. And she laments the demise of student
grants, and the fate of her grandchildren: "What will they have to pay to get
into university?" There are millions of people like this: without their support,
to put it bluntly, Labour is screwed.

In outer London, and Lancashire, and Stoke, the BNP will make hay with all this
(remember how Jean-Marie Le Pen built up support for the French National Front
by pitting himself against the distant Parisian elite). Even if they lack the
kind of Norman Tebbit-esque voice that could have seized on all this in an
instant, the Tories will big up the hardline, Eurosceptic, anti-welfare aspect
of their DNA, and presumably draw away some crucial Labour votes. Ukip will be
ecstatic; the knuckles-down-a-blackboard voices of Littlejohn et al will not let
up for weeks. In so assisting the forces of rightwing populism, it could even
decisively do for the Lib Dem surge.

And somewhere within Labour's collective psyche, there will a creeping awareness
of how they arguably ended up here: by mortgaging their future on a mixture of
contorted electoral arithmetic, and secondhand free-marketry, and so forgetting
their own people that their own prime minister met an pretty average Labour
voter, heard her concerns, and came away seething. (It's worth bearing in mind a
phrase beloved of market traders in the West Midlands: "Never make a mug of your
punter.")

This may sound tangential, but I'm rather reminded of a passage from a Tony
Blair conference speech that both set out New Labour's credo, and captured its
essential pathology. "The character of this changing world is indifferent to
tradition," he said. "Unforgiving of frailty. No respecter of past reputations.
It has no custom and practice. It is replete with opportunities, but they only
go to those swift to adapt, slow to complain, open, willing and able to change."
That doesn't describe Gillian Duffy, nor millions and millions of other people.
And in this awful episode, here are the wages of that ever-festering
disconnection.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: Alice-Azania Jarvis

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 446 words


Hamilton lends a hand

First it was Stuart Wheeler, now ... Neil Hamilton. The disgraced former MP,
appointed the Conservative Whip under Margaret Thatcher, could be seen out on
the campaign trail with Charles Bennett, a former Army officer and the UK
Independence Party's candidate for North Wiltshire. Hamilton has, as it turns
out, defected to the eurosceptic party. "He has always been a eurosceptic. It
was a no-brainer," explains a spokesman.

Since leaving Parliament in a fog of sleaze allegations in 1997, Hamilton has
had no trouble occupying himself, appearing on of The Weakest Link, Who Wants To
Be A Millionaire? and Mastermind, and hosting a booze-fuelled chat show at the
Edinburgh Festival. His wife Christine, meanwhile, has been sharing her
electoral analysis on Twitter. "Cleggie seems to be wowing the nurses," she
noted yesterday. "As his mother is Dutch, maybe we should call him Nick Clogg."
Har, har.

French make a titanic election howler

Election coverage has assumed a rather more glamorous form in Le Monde. An
article on the French newspaper's website has delighted readers with news that
"James Cameron's Conservative Opposition obtained between 34 per cent and 36 per
cent of support in a recent poll". As one respondent commented on the site:
"David Cameron et non James Cameron! Erreur???" We'll resist the temptation to
crack the "sinking like the Titanic" gag.

A copy of the Financial Times lands on Pandora's desk, folded to show an advert
for the Rodman and Renshaw Annual Global Investment Conference. Healthcare!
Metals! Mining! But be not deceived: this is no ordinary industry snooze. Three
phrases catch our eye: cocktails, Sir John Major and Duran Duran. Our kind of
do.

As the Great Volcano Crisis resides, guest lists refill. Only one chef included
in this year's World's 50 Best Restaurants was absent from Monday night's
prize-giving. The evening's victor, Rene Redzepi of Noma in Copenhagen, was,
however, missing one crucial supporter: Ali Sonko, his head dishwasher, who was
refused a visa. "He's the go-to man." Redzepi complained. "I don't understand."
To compensate, the chef, pictured, and his team all sported T-shirts emblazoned
with Sonko's face. Touching!

Sussex sausages get Dave's vote

David Cameron was left holding the cold sausage during a visit to Leadenhall
Market last week. A trader offered him a sample, only for him take a bite, turn
round and find his aides had vanished before he could palm off the rest. Now we
hear of the sausage's origin. "It was an EllesBelles sausage from The Sussex
Yeoman pub in Brighton," writes our informant. "100 per cent meat and made by
me, Ellie Ledden." Aha!

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 28, 2010 Wednesday 12:36 PM GMT

Now the TV talent show is almost over, let's talk about the small stuff, like
gaffes and Sinn Fein

BYLINE: By Richard Preston

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 257 words


With the closing episode of Britain's Got Issuestomorrow night, the campaign
will return to something resembling normal service for the last compelling week.

The small stuff will start to matter more:public ambushesand 'gaffes' (Brown has
justdefinitively lost the election with anaside about a 'bigoted woman'),
light-footed changes of policy direction, stiletto stabbings of opponents, and
the calculationsabout who'll do deals with whom on the fringe.

As the FT reports on its front page today, the Tories are weighing the
possibilityof deals with unionists and with Scottish and Welsh nationalist MPs
in order to avoid concede electoral reform to the Lib Dems in the event of a
hung parliament.

And the also-rans are well aware of their potential importance. Andrew Gimson
writes about following George Galloway in the Telegraph today: 'He has developed
an amusing fantasy in which Labour is three seats short of being able to form a
government, and only Respect can provide those three seats'.

Galloway may be dreaming but therecould bean important pot ofindependent, UKIP,
Respect and even BNP MPs to squabble over. As an Irish friend points out, what
about the possibility of five Sinn Fein MPs deciding that they will take their
seats at Westminster after all, in order to keep out a Tory government?

And if things arehanging-chad tight, don't forget that voting in one seat,
Thirsk and Malton, won't take place until May 27, following the death of UKIP
candidate John Boakes. Never mind the telly debates, this last week will be
riveting.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 28, 2010 Wednesday 10:38 AM GMT

Nick Clegg's electoral reform could give the BNP over 60 seats in the House of
Commons

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 969 words


With just over a week left for campaigning, the three great elephants - debt,
the EU and immigration -are still left scarcely disturbed.Andthey are all
getting bigger and even more threatening.

Just look at the debt problem. In the current financial year, Mr Brown plans to
spend 704 billion, to raise 541 billion in revenue and to borrow the other 163
billion. The interest on his accumulated debt is estimated at 43 billion, that
is eight per cent of revenue and rising.He has no stated plan to reduce the
debt.

The problem is even worse than it looks because although Mr Brown is keen to add
into his claims of increased spending on the NHS and defence the capital costs
of hospitals built, or aircraft acquiredunder PFI or PPP contracts, he is just
as keen to keep them off his tally of debts.However, as anyone who has ever
bought anything on a hire purchase agreement willknow,it does not come free.

For the moment, lenders are waiting to see the outcome of our general election,
but it will not be long beforethe markets begin to ask how the new government
proposes to resolve our debt problem. While almost a quarter of our spending is
on credit and we have no credible plan to reduce that borrowing, we will be at
risk of a strike by our lenders.

In the midst of all this it is clear that the Lib Dems have a single overriding
priority: to change our electoral system to the one which they believe would
most favour their party.It is also the one by which Hitler was elected to power
in Germany.

They should think twice.NuLab is in a very weak state.At its peak in 1997 it
polled 13.5 million votes. In 2005 it polled only 9.5 million.Those lost votes
did not go to the Tories, whose vote fell by 800,000, or the Lib Dems, whose
vote increased by only 200,000 over the same period. Those voters stayed at
home.

If Labour does badly next week, it is likely that its new leadership will take
it closer to the Lib Dems, perhaps even into coalition. Where will its lost
voters go then?Mostly, I suspect, to the BNP.At the European election last year,
the BNP scoredsix percent of the poll and NuLab only 15 per cent.

There is a very likely prospect of the BNP fishing for votes amongst the poorer
white ex-Labour voters being hit by unemployment, expenditure cuts and higher
taxes on petrol and VAT increases. They might score 10 per cent in a future
election - and under the Clegg system finish up with over 60 MPs.

Mr Clegg might find his love affair with PR and debt denialwould bring a very
different Parliament.I think he should read the history of the Weimar Republic

In the meantime, presumably to show it is an "equal opportunity employer" intent
on ensuring that our civil service is "representative of the community it
serves", the Foreign Office reveals that its leading halfwitsplanning to insult
the Pope were an Asian (British-born) and a homosexual (home-grown, I assume).
No disciplinary action is to be taken against either of them, although they must
have committed a"hate crime" in insulting not just the Pope but also the deeply
held religious convictions of our Catholic population. I wonder, however, what
the FCO would have done if an official had proposed similar ideas for a visit by
a Muslim head of state.

'i sage' wondered if I had tried the Telegraph's Vote Match guide. I did so a
while ago.It told me that I should vote Conservative - but UKIP was not far
behind.

'James 1' ought to know that Cameron cannot adopt the BNP manifesto because he
is not a socialist, but I did enjoy his splendid riposte to 'british patriot'.

'jmw1' did miss something.Even when Mr Clegg comes second or third,he will still
claim the right to name, or to be, Prime Minister, although at least two thirds
of the voters do not want him.

I think that 'rupert' and 'grandsmalls' should wait for the outcome of the
election before speculating on Mr Cameron's future.As for'briton' he should
remember that I cannot give up my peerage and I doubt if Mr Cameron would lose
much sleep if I did. And not all peers are the same.Some are time-serving
placemen (and placewomen).Most are not.There are outstanding soldiers,
scientists, doctors, diplomats, civil servants and more. Men and women who have
served this country well.

I understand how anxious 'cyndi' must be about her boyfriend in Afghanistan, but
I have no power to stopBlair's Wars, nor the defence cuts.All I can do is to
work to get rid of those responsible for them,and for the lunatic rules of
engagement which cost our sevicemen their lives.When I was in the Government,
our troops were sent to the Falklands with the equipment they needed to win the
war in weeks.

I was suprised that 'David Jay' should have come out as an apologist for Hitler
and the Kaiser.However I was concerned at the post from 'rtj1211'. I will not
comment on it but I think he should seek professional help.

I fear that 'Duckham' has still not understood a very simple point. Our
potential enemies are devoid of reason.They commit terrorist crimes, blowing up
themselves and othersout of irrationality. A nuclear weapon could be delivered
covertly into London by ship. I lack the divine insight possessed by 'Duckham'
that no one is going to attack this country in a way that justifies a nuclear
response.I do know that even in quite extreme governments there are likely to be
some people who would wonder if an attack on Britain would be worth seeing their
country all but wiped out.

My advice to 'Melson Nandela' who thinks England is finished is to read what
happened after most people thought thatKing Alfred was finished.

'pogles woodsman' is not quite right.Lisbon altered the Treaty of Rome and that
cannot be unilaterally unpicked.Of course it would be possible to renounce the
Treaty of Rome.

Lastly, may I welcome 'dobbie' to our ranks.Thank you for such a generous first
post.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 28, 2010 Wednesday 10:38 AM GMT

If the Tories lose by a UKIP-sized margin, that will give them something to
think about

BYLINE: By Douglas Murray

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 249 words


I hate to disagree with Alex Singleton, but I don't see why a vote for UKIP is
any more wasted than a vote for any other party at this election.

I admit that it is highly unlikely that Lord Pearson will be standing insideor
outside10 Downing Streetat any pointnext week.

However, if you sharethe belief that the problems emanating from Brussels cannot
be solved by quibbling but are, rather,systemic; ifyou recognise that many of
the problems this country faces have arisen precisely because of the shackles
that Europe has imposed on us; if you are opposed to mass immigration and
believe that dealing withthis means more than fine-tuning a quota here
andadjusting apoints-base there; if in other words you hold a range ofopinions
whichwereonce commonplaceamong significant chunks of theConservative Party, then
you may wonder what the point of voting Conservative in this election actually
is. Any more than voting for Labour or the Liberal Democrat.

There are far too many politicians at the moment tellingus thatwemust vote for
them in order not to allow the other people in. As I see it, the public should
not be blackmailed into voting for a politician they dislike because another
politician they dislike thinks you should keep out a third politician they
dislike.

Perhaps people should simply vote for the party which reflects their views.And
if the Tories or anyone else lose by a UKIP-sized margin, then perhaps they will
have time in opposition to reflect on how such a situation came topass.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 28, 2010 Wednesday 10:38 AM GMT

No more ****ing photographs of you on the campaign trail, Hannan

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 95 words


So says our brilliant blogs editor, Damian Thompson.

You're the boss, Dame. But do have a look at this picture from Woking, if only
because you'll recognise the Tory candidate, Jonathan Lord, from your gang of
Oxford mates. Jonathan is now fighting a good-natured campaign against some very
aggressive Lib Dems in Woking. By chance, I happened to canvass his UKIP
opponent, who couldn't have been friendlier.

One more canvassing anecdote before I leave the subject. Knocking on a door in
Basingstoke, I was greeted with a delighted cry of "Come in: I'm a Jehovah's
Witness."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How to make all votes count and avoid a hung Parliament;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 528 words


Sir, It is wrong to believe that reforming the UK's constituency map by reducing
the variation in electorate sizes will remove the current anomalies in the
present system (letter, April 27). In 2005 the general election result was very
biased towards Labour: if Labour and the Conservatives had each won 34 per cent
of the votes then Labour would have obtained 111 more seats than the
Conservatives. Part of this was because of variations in constituency
electorates - on average those won by Labour had fewer voters than those won by
the Conservatives. But this component comprised no more than one fifth of the
bias.

The main sources of pro-Labour bias in 2005 were variations in turnout - on
average, Labour-won seats had many more abstentions - and in the efficiency of
the voting distributions (not wasting more votes in safe seats and in seats
where the party was bound to lose). Changed constituency boundaries introduced
in 2007 have not removed these elements (it cannot), which is why Labour could
win more seats than the other parties even if it wins fewer votes.

professor ron johnston School of Geographical Sciences University of Bristol
Sir, Why is it necessary to elect the government for the next five years in one
day of voting? Forget about all the alternative methods to the
first-past-the-post system and have a run-off between the two candidates who
poll the most votes in each constituency, assuming neither receives more than 50
per cent of the votes.

Voters could retain their original voting cards, stamped to show their
eligibility to vote (ie, only those voting first time around would be eligible),
and counting would be easier and faster with only two candidates to consider.
Give those "run-off" candidates a week to do their electioneering and the MP
elected (and the government elected) would have majority support. tom williams
Oxford Sir, Suppose that one party wins enough seats to form a government with a
working majority, but the next two parties have the same number of seats as each
other, which one will form the official opposition? mike shiman Gerrards Cross,
Bucks Sir, Many people who say that they would like a hung Parliament actually
want a pick'n'mix selection of policies from different parties. Only an
electoral system that allows voters to prioritise policies will meet this need.

Then someone could vote Conservative on the economy, Labour on childcare, Lib
Dem on Trident, UKIP on Europe, BNP on immigration and Loony on humour. richard
tweed Croydon, Surrey Sir, There is a ban on exit polls being published before
polling stations have closed so that those still to vote are not unduly
influenced when they cast their ballots. Now that in some areas up to 30 per
cent of the electorate have a postal vote, shouldn't opinion polls be banned
during the whole election campaign? Perhaps then we would hear more about
parties' policies and less about pollsters' predictions.

dr john hayward Executive Director, Jubilee Centre Cambridge Sir, Avoiding a
hung Parliament and all that goes with it is simple. Get one party to change its
name to "None of the above". It will be a landslide. david nickson Chipping
Norton, Oxon

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Is there a way to make all votes count equally to end constituency
anomalies?
BEN GURR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHAT TO WATCH TONIGHT

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 515 words


Current Affairs Election 2010: the Regional Debate BBC One, 10.50pm; not N
Ireland, Scotland, Wales After giving ample airtime to the three major party
leaders, the BBC is broadcasting debates with other high-profile MPs. Twelve
different debates are taking place in different regions and which one you can
see depends on where you live. For example, those in the North East & Cumbria
region will see a debate from Sunderland with a panel including William Hague
(Cons), Nick Brown (Lab) and Sir Alan Beith (Lib Dem). Those in the East
Midlands will see Ken Clarke (Cons), Margaret Beckett (Lab) and Paul Holmes (Lib
Dem) among the panel.

Those in the South will get, among others, Michael Gove (Cons), John Denham
(Lab) and Nigel Farage (UKIP). Catherine Gee Documentary South Africa in
Pictures BBC Four, 9.00pm Rankin is one of the UK's top fashion photographers
and famed for his celebrity portraits. Here he leaves such glamour behind to
learn about South Africa's emergent snapping styles. Rankin meets renowned
documentary lensman David Goldblatt, the founders of South Africa's first black
lifestyle magazine and the surviving half of photojournalist team the Bang Bang
Club - the subject of a forthcoming film about their influential but ultimately
tragic reportage of post-apartheid social upheaval. Michael Hogan Drama Five
Daughters BBC One, 9.00pm Conclusion of this moving three-part drama based on
the murders of five young women in Ipswich in 2006. It uses the personal
testimonies of those closely involved in the events including three of the
victims' families. Featuring a star-studded cast, including David Bradley. TD
Factual The Delicious Miss Dahl BBC Two, 8.30pm Sophie Dahl ponders the merits
of dark chocolate pudding in this celebration-themed final episode of the
series. Dahl is stick thin with blonde hair. Nigella Lawson is curvaceous with
dark hair. Beyond that it's hard to separate this selfconsciously homespun
confection from its obvious inspiration. Dahl whips up "ravishing" Borscht in
"hot Fifties pink" and stuffs whole sea trout. Food also brings out Dahl's
literary side. She wants her oysters "plump like a Thomas Hardy milkmaid" and
finishes proceedings by quoting Christina Rossetti. TD Heston's Gothic Horror
Feast Channel 4, 9.00pm In tonight's episode the self-proclaimed "mad scientist"
goes on a Gothic adventure, and cooks up a Transylvanian stew of leeches filled
with goose blood. Luckily, Blumenthal doesn't inflict this horror on the
celebrity guests at an ingenious feast influenced by 19th-century horror novels.
Instead his diners, including Ulrika Jonsson, are wowed with blood-infused
risotto and an edible Frankenstein's monster. TD Film Brubaker (1980) Sky Movies
Modern Greats/ SMMGHD, 3.25pm This gruelling drama - based on a true story -
stars Robert Redford as Henry Brubaker, the new warden of an anarchic prison who
poses as an inmate to discover the scale of its abuses. However, he soon
encounters resistance at higher levels than the inmates. The strong cast and
script compensate for a few overwrought moments. Ed Cumming

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIVE DAUGHTERS: David Bradley BBC One, 9.00pm
THE DELICIOUS MISS DAHL BBC Two, 8.30pm

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHICH election candidate, deputy leader [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 132 words


WHICH election candidate, deputy leader of his own party, is related to a
British prime minister and appeared in a great Oscar-winning film? Step forward
David Campbell Bannerman, UKIP MEP for the East of England and his party's
General Election candidate in Suffolk South. His family tree boasts Sir Henry
Campbell-Bannerman, prime minister from 1906-08. He was a Liberal, which is
perhaps why young David stresses he was a "distant relative".

The film was Chariots of Fire - he was an extra watching one of Ian Charleson's
races.

But that's not all. "Campbell Bannerman stood behind [Irish Prime Minister] John
Bruton and John Major at the start of the historic Peace Talks in 2006 that
eventually brought in the Good Friday Agreement," his website coos. Let no one
say they're not influential!

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Campaign 2010: The big story: ICM/Guardian poll: Labour battling to avoid third
place as Lib Dem vote holds

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 706 words


Labour is battling to avoid a disastrous third place in next week's election,
according to the latest Guardian/ICM poll which shows that the surge in support
for the Liberal Democrats has not faltered over the last week. The ICM figures
show all three parties on scores identical to last week's Guardian/ICM poll. The
Conservatives retain a narrow three-point lead on 33%, ahead of the Lib Dems on
30%. Labour is close behind on 28%.

Compared with the most recent ICM poll, published on Sunday, Conservative
support is down two, Labour up two and the Lib Dems down one - but those results
are within the margin of error. Support for other parties is eight points, with
no sign of an advance by the Greens or Ukip.

Conservative support is at the same level as the party achieved in the 2005
general election and would leave the party far short of a majority. That will
add to anxiety within the Tory campaign.

On these figures, Labour could theoretically become the largest party in
parliament despite coming third in votes.

In practice it is likely to lose more seats than the uniform national swing
suggests. But the poll also suggests Labour support - 28% in the poll - has not
yet hit bedrock and could fall below 20%.

The poll shows Conservative support is holding firm, with 83% of supporters
saying they do not expect to change their mind before polling day.

By contrast, only 69% of Lib Dems and 68% of Labour voters say they will stick
with their current choice. Almost a third of people supporting Labour say they
might end up backing another party instead.

If that happens, Labour's vote would fall to a minimum of 18%. Its maximum
potential vote - all current supporters plus people who say they may decide to
back it - is 33%. That is three points lower than the party achieved in 2005.

By contrast, the Tory minimum is 27%, and maximum 37%, a level which would
probably give the party a small majority.

The Lib Dem vote is the most volatile: the party's minimum current support is
23% and its maximum 40%, which if achieved would give the party first place in
votes if not seats.

Some people who say they support the Lib Dems also say they are far from certain
to vote, and some did not vote at the last election. Figures are weighted to
reflect the likelihood of each party's supporters turning out on the day.

Nick Clegg is thriving as the party leader least tainted by spin and most
associated with political change. But many voters are sceptical of his ability
to lead a government and see voting Lib Dem as a protest against the other
parties.

Overall, 58% agree with the statement "the Liberal Democrats represent something
new and different", against 37% who disagree. That includes 56% of current
Labour supporters and 39% of Conservatives.

The Lib Dems are appealing most of all to young voters - 64% of 18-24s think the
party is different. Pensioners are the least impressed, with only 49% agreeing.

Meanwhile, 40% of all voters say they can imagine a Liberal Democrat government
led by Clegg as prime minister, while 55% say they cannot. Lib Dem supporters
overwhelmingly see Clegg as a potential PM: 80% say he could run the country.
But only 16% of Conservatives and 31% of Labour supporters agree. However, 51%
of voters reject the idea that the Lib Dems are only a protest party.

There is also evidence that the bandwagon effect is helping the party pick up
votes: 31% of all voters, including 26% of Labour supporters, say knowing that
other people are switching to the Lib Dems encourages them to do the same.

But Clegg's party lags behind on policy. On the economy, the subject of this
week's final leaders' debate, the Tory team of David Cameron and George Osborne
are narrowly ahead of Labour's team of Gordon Brown and Alistair Darling, 30% to
29%. Clegg and Vince Cable are third, picked by 23%. Among Lib Dem supporters,
21% think the Labour team is better placed to run the economy.

Meanwhile 35% say Cameron is the most competent potential prime minister (up
three), against 29% who say Brown and 22% Clegg.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,031 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 23-25 April 2010. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Campaign 2010: Battlegrounds: Tories hope GP will bandage over expenses wound:
Totnes debutant aims to avoid legacy of grandee Lib Dems and Ukip hope to
capitalise on scandal

BYLINE: Steven Morris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1232 words


The Conservative candidate for Totnes is expressing the sort of doubts not often
heard from a politician in the middle of a general election campaign.

"Of course there are times when you have your low moments," says Dr Sarah
Wollaston, who will give up her GP practice on beautiful Dartmoor if she is
elected. "You wonder why you are giving up the nicest job in the world to do a
job where it feels some days that everyone thinks you must be in it for the
wrong reasons.

"I can't tell you the difference between knocking on someone's door as a GP and
knocking on someone's door saying you'd like to be their MP. Sometimes you feel
a wave of hostility."

It is not surprising that there is hostility to candidates, especially the Tory
one, in this Devon constituency. The previous incumbent of the seat, the party
grandee Anthony Steen, announced his retirement after suggesting amid the
expenses scandal that constituents were jealous of his "very, very large house".

Suddenly a majority of almost 2,000 did not feel quite so comfortable for party
strategists. The Liberal Democrats are sensing they could cause an upset and
Ukip, which can play on the antipathy to all things Europe felt by many of the
commercial fishermen and farmers in this area, may also take votes from the
Tories, having done well at the European elections here.

Which is why, actually, it might be a good thing that Wollaston, who won the
right to stand through the first full open primary (which gave every voter in
the constituency, regardless of political persuasion, the chance to be involved
in the selection process) does not come over like a polished, old-school
candidate.

"Four years ago I'd never been to a political meeting," she says over a cup of
tea at the Fishermen's Mission in Brixham. "The disadvantage could be that you
have somebody who doesn't know the ropes, doesn't know their way around if they
are elected.

"On the other hand I think it's very refreshing. In parliament we have very few
people who have a background in medicine, very few people with a background in
science. I think that's got to be an advantage. People don't want to have
professional politicians who've been through a sausage machine."

Wollaston admits that Steen's comments "haunt this campaign" but she hopes that
after the election, politics can move on from the expenses scandal. "I think
it's our last chance," she says.

It was thought the expenses furore could also pave the way for independents to
do well at this election. Totnes has a couple of interesting ones.

First to Dartmouth, the gorgeous riverine town where the illustrator and
cartoonist Simon Drew is to be found. Not surprisingly he is putting his
artistic talents to good use in his campaign for the Totnes seat.

People strolling past his gallery smile when they see his cartoon of
"Michelangelo's Dave", a photograph of a puzzled-looking David Cameron plonked
on to a sketch of the "real" David's muscular body.

He has also produced what must be one of the most beautiful election leaflets: a
House of Commons populated by waterfowl, suggesting most MPs are "lame ducks"
and recalling the duck house controversy emblematic of the saga.

Drew says he is "disgusted" with the main parties and the lack of choice.

"I decided the best thing I could do was stand myself. I'm finding it very
interesting and getting quite a lot of support, I think. It helps having run the
shop for 29 years - people know who I am. It helps that I've never been
connected to any of the parties before."

If elected he would fight for local issues that have national resonance such as
the problems faced by the fishing industry and soaring business rates. He is
also a supporter of proportional representation.

"But I've no axe to grind about a particular issue. I just want to be an
alternative to the main parties."

Stephen Hopwood, another independent candidate, does have many axes to grind. A
complementary medicine practitioner, his literature declares: "I will be
standing on the single issue of Truth." (His capital letter.)

"Only independents can truly represent the people," he says. "Any politician
signed up to a party by definition has greater allegiance to the party and the
whip rather than the people. If people want democracy they have to vote for an
independent, otherwise you get party whips and party politics and the influence
of the bankers that dictate party policy."

As he talks on the balcony of his home on the edge of Dartmoor, the MI5 renegade
David Shayler wanders out. It turns out he is helping Hopwood's campaign. Local
issues are not foremost in either man's mind - rather, the "truth" about
bankers, globalisation, 9/11 and the assassination of JFK.

The Lib Dem and Ukip candidates are focusing on the local rather than the
global. Julian Brazil, the Lib Dem candidate, says he is hearing anger about a
lack of investment in the more urban parts of the constituency (that "urban" is
a relative term in this bucolic corner of Britain). In the countryside, the
issues include affordable housing and lack of jobs. Bovine TB is a big deal for
the many dairy farmers.

He believes people are still "very angry" about expenses. "It's a plague on all
your houses is how they look at it. They are still going to vote. I hope they
can channel that anger into voting for something different."

Brazil is more of a conventional politician. He is leader of the Lib Dem group
on South Hams district council and has worked at Westminster with the former
leader Charles Kennedy. (His biography also reveals he plays euchre - a card
game - for the Pigs Nose Inn in East Prawle.)

He admits he would like to see more independent MPs in the Commons and might
even have voted for Drew were he not standing himself. But he's not convinced it
pays to be as nice as the Tory candidate obviously is. "Politics is about
getting things done, not being a lovely person and making friends. It is, after
all, one of the oldest professions."

At the Fishermen's Mission, Wollaston goes off in search of a bacon sandwich
(there is not much fish on the menu, which may tell a tale). So is she enjoying
it, really?

She sounds a little as if she is still trying to convince herself. "Actually
it's very interesting. Every day I have to remind myself this is a really
interesting job."

The essentials:

Totnes

* The contest Safe Tory seat but the Lib Dems fancy their chances after the
previous Conservative MP got into a spot of bother over expenses. Ukip likely to
do well, independents may take votes from the main parties, while Labour
unlikely to prosper.

* Data Conservative majority at the last election was 1,947. Lib Dems were
second and Labour a distant third with Ukip not far behind. Turnout was 68%.

* The constituency One of the largest English constituencies. Includes the
fishing port of Brixham, farms, slopes of Dartmoor, riverside town of Dartmouth,
and Totnes. One major dual carriageway, the A38. Has a higher than average
number of retired people and a higher percentage of unemployed and
self-employed. Average wage is less than the national average.

* History Formed out of the South Hams constituency for the 1997 election. The
Conservative Anthony Steen has held the seat since 1997.

Captions:

Casting for votes

Dr Sarah Wollaston, Tory candidate for Totnes, visiting Brixham quay, where
rivals such as Ukip threaten to take votes by playing on antipathy to Europe

Photograph: Mark Passmore/Apex

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Campaign 2010: My election: It's next week! 9 days to go: Hadley Freeman's
election diary

BYLINE: Hadley Freeman

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 602 words


Love is in the air

Tories' fumbling encounter

Why Miss! You're beautiful! Once she was the frumpy office lackey who they
barely noticed existed. But then Lib Dem took off her spectacles and now Labour
and Tory can barely keep their hands off her to the point where they forget
their obligations back home. Such was the case for Greg Clark, the shadow
environment secretary, who yesterday claimed: "We're all agreed that climate
change poses one of the greatest threats." Not even your whole frontbench is
agreed on that one, Greg. Love makes us all blind.

Unelected and bossy

Mandy 'shuts up' Harman

According to the Diary's highly professional GCSE-level mathematical
calculations, for every passing mention that has appeared in the press recently
about Harriet Harman there have been about 17,849,787 full page articles about
Sarah Brown. Stupid media, focusing on pedicures instead of politics! Well, not
quite. Yesterday it was reported that Harman was told to "shut up" and that she
shouldn't be "heard from again" - not by the tabloids, not by the fashion mags
but by . . . Lord Mandelson. Maybe he didn't like her pedicure.

Charlie Brooker loves Tories?

'Jesus & NO' he doesn't

He writes for that commie rag, the Guardian. His views on cheesy, crappy TV are
well known. So obviously, Charlie Brooker would be a natural to appear in the
Conservative party's political broadcast. So thought ad agency M&C Saatchi,
anyway, who called up Charlie to ask him to shill for David Cameron. "Jesus &
NO. Must be asking literally ANYONE," Charlie tweeted. Oh Charlie, don't do
yourself down. Saatchi are clearly just going after the obvious choices.

My Lib Dem pony

Which horse to saddle?

Nick Clegg told the New York Times that he is "not daft enough to put the cart
before the horse" when asked about possible coalitions. Ah, but what kind of
horse, Nick? While Mandelson recently described Cameron as a "workhorse", to
Nick the Tory leader is a "show pony". Those Lib Dems, eh? Such teases.

Spousal abuse

How the other halves live

It's hard being a political wife these days. So many paradoxical demands, so may
pressures. How to convey the insanity? So Diary doffs its chapeau to Jan "the
one who wrote that column" Moir for her Daily Mail piece yesterday in which she
managed to find fault with everything about every wife, from Samantha Cameron's
raincoat - "ramming home her common cred" - to Miriam Gonzalez Durantez for
daring to break her elbow - "as you do", comments Jan, possibly making some kind
of point. Jan, Private Eye thanks you.

Quote, unquote

The impossible dream

Gordon Brown began the last full week before the general election at the Royal
College of Nursing, where he quoted The Impossible Dream. It is rarely advisable
for a politician to quote a song anyway, even less so one that suggests
pessimism in his or her political chances. But the Diary likes a familiar tune.
But where have we heard that one recently in a political context . . . Oh yes,
as the backing song for an adoring video of El Tone on the beyond parody
keeptonyblairforpm.org website.

Time, gentlemen Ukip: party or pub?

Over in Ohifonlyland, Nigel Farage, the sane and reasonable head of Ukip
(right), has mused on how, if British politics hadn't so desperately needed his
service, he would have run a pub. Diary thinks it occasionally sees the types of
pubs that Farage might have run, with a St George's flag in the window and a
couple of shaven-headed guys outside, making sure anyone who doesn't look like
them try to get in. "The real politics of this land are discussed in pubs,"
explained Farage, adorably conflating "real" with "Ukip".

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday

Election round-up: Still deciding who to vote for? Ask Ikea...

BYLINE: Jemima Kissguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 636 words

ABSTRACT

Ikea will be delighted with their viral success for this election-themed kitchen
designs gag. Brün, Kamerun or Cleggi? By Jemima Kiss

FULL TEXT

Ikea will be delighted with their viral success for this  gag. Brün, Kamerun or
Cleggi?

We enjoyed the details like Brün's tough Granita worktop "capable of taking a
beating, Kameron's Knivenrackem: "Planning on hacking essential services? Use
the fullest range of knives at your disposal..." and the rather charming
Vincekabl Tidy: "Keep economic mess at bay with this presentable, quite likeable
essential..."

Election mashery

of  is , which is supported by  fund and rests on another distant branch of the
family.

is asking volunteers to photograph, upload and share the location of election
billboards around the UK, reflecting the level of campaign intensity in
difference constituencies.

Compare that to the Guardian's '', an interactive rating tool of campaigns
across the UK that users can populate via Twitter.

Still undecided?

There are several voting decision tools out there.  will let you compare key
policies without identifying which party they belong to, and match you at the
end of the 'quiz'.  does the same thing, as does  - which told me my values are
more closely matched to the BNP than to the Conservative Party. I have no idea
which boxes I ticked to produce that outcome. And I'm voting Green, which it
correctly matched to my responses.

How powerful is your vote?

The site is based on the principle that constituencies vary in size and how
marginal they are, and that therefore voters in different seats may have
differing levels of influence. My constituency in Brighton Pavilion, for
example, is large and relatively safe, according to , which means one vote "is
the equivalent of 0.232 votes". That doesn't sound good. Interesting
infographics here illustrate the futility of first-past-the-post: "64% of votes
count for nothing".

Does the Digital Economy Act sway your vote?

The  iPhone app has been polling the UK's digital constituency on a range of
different issues every day since the election was announced. Developers
AppyGoLucky have shared the results of two of those questions with us:

· Would you vote for a party that promised to scrap the Digital Economy Bill? Of
8,226 UK votes:

Yes: 29% No: 19% Not sure: 52%

Supporters of the three main parties seemed undecided about whether scrapping
the Act would be a vote winner; half of them said they were unsure. Surprisingly
only 74% of  supporters said they would vote for a party that promised to scrap
the act, though you might have expected that figure to be higher.

· Do you think the media challenge politicians, ask all the necessary questions
and deliver good coverage of the election campaign? Of 4,257 UK votes:

Yes: 51% No: 37% Not sure: 12%

Not surprisingly, Labour, Conservative and LibDem supporters were more likely to
vote yes, while most minority parties, including the Greens and UKIP, did not
think the media was asking the right questions.

AppyGoLucky told us that one user left a comment on their iTunes feedback page
asking if voting via the app counted towards the actual election. Bless. Give
the government 50 years to sort out e-voting, and maybe.

Is your prospective parliamentary candidate hot, or not?

The Green Party officially has the hottest candidates - if you believe . If you
don't think that's a fair representation of your party's 'presentability', you'd
better get clicking. If you're delighted that UK politics has finally achieved
this nirvana of superficiality, you have @mikesten to thank.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

CHALLENGE FOR LIB DEMS AS MEMORIES OF IRAQ FADE;
Guy Keleny returns to the north London seat where he grew up to find political
turmoil in the stolid Victorian suburbs

BYLINE: Guy Keleny

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 1357 words


A bright spring afternoon on Hornsey High Street. Sunshine and traffic fumes;
pedestrians hurrying in and out of shops; solid, florid Victorian buildings.
None more solid than the Three Compasses, one of those towering Victorian pubs
you find all across inner suburban London. On the upper floor of the Three
Compasses is the Liberal Democrat campaign headquarters, where Lynne
Featherstone, MP for Hornsey and Wood Green, is defending the 2,395-vote
majority she won over Labour in 2005.

Lynne and I are on the pavement outside. Lynne Featherstone talks nineteen to
the dozen. Her hands weave arabesques in the air; smiles flit across her face;
facts, figures and jokes crowd the ears of the listener. She is telling me about
the follies of the local borough council, dominated by Labour for four decades;
about funding for local schools; about the Government's assaults on civil
liberties; about how Labour's policy failures threaten to close a local A&E
department - "They're absolutely stark staring nuts."

A young woman approaches the MP. I expect some vigorous pavement politics. But,
no, her intention is kindly. Lynne really ought not to leave her handbag
unwatched behind her on the pavement. Not around here. Why, the woman's own son
was assaulted on that very corner not long ago.

Featherstone, the accomplished campaigner, doesn't miss a beat. There will be no
cliche headlines about urban street crime, not if she can help it. "It's very
vibrant around here," she assures me, adding that things are not that bad at
all.

The Hornsey and Wood Green constituency is the western half of Haringey. That
borough has achieved an unenviable national fame for the failures of its social
services to prevent the deaths of the children Victoria Climbie and Baby Peter.
But those horrible events took place in Tottenham, at the eastern end of the
borough. With Haringey, as with central London, the west end is the posh end.

It certainly is vibrant. For my return visit I drove into the constituency from
the east. Around Turnpike Lane the shop-fronts say things like Paradise Halal
Butchers and Afro-Caribbean Unisex Salon. Driving west towards Crouch End, you
cross one of those sudden London frontiers between poverty and riches. In the
space of a few yards it was all Prospero's bookshop and Walter Purkis and Son,
High Class Fishmonger and Poulterer - looking for all the world as if it had
been there for ever, though I don't remember it being there when I was a
teenager.

In those days the area was solid, prosperous, a trifle dull - all right, very
dull. Highgate, Stroud Green, Muswell Hill, Crouch End - the very names of the
districts speak of the bourgeois respectability that had settled on the area
when it was built up in Victorian times.

Today's cosmopolitan Crouch End with its restaurants and pavement cafes was 40
years in the future. This was a place you got away from to have fun. The
Northern Line tube, the link to the West End, spoke to the adolescent heart with
the same glamorous longings as inspired Dick Whittington when he heard the bells
of London paused halfway up Highgate Hill, and turned back to find his destiny.

You could call it Middle London. The very western edge of the constituency takes
in half of the very pretty Highgate village. The flat in Stanhope Road that I
shared with my mother during the university vacations is in Crouch End ward. The
house we lived in while I was at school is just the wrong side of Hornsey Lane,
in the neighbouring People's Republic of Islington North, where they don't count
the Labour votes, they weigh them. Hornsey and Wood Green provides a more
interesting spectacle: the middle classes in genteel political ferment.

That has been the story of the constituency since it was created in 1983. Its
first MP was Sir Hugh Rossi, a lawyer and a "One Nation" Tory. He retired in
1992. In that year's general election Hornsey and Wood Green was taken by
Barbara Roche for Labour. Her support for the Iraq war did her no good in 2005,
when she lost to Lynne Featherstone. Featherstone has voted strongly against ID
cards and in favour of an Iraq inquiry.

Labour says Featherstone is now vulnerable. Featherstone denies it, pointing out
that when she won the Commons seat it was at the third try, and her vote had
increased each time. Now she squares up to Karen Jennings, the new Labour
candidate. What strikes you is how similar the two women are: both baby-boomers;
each the mother of two children.

Featherstone is rich but has never been idle. She had a career as a designer
before going into politics. She proudly proclaims herself a "local girl".
Jennings was not born here, but has lived locally for years. She is a former
nurse and a union official. She comes across as quieter and more thoughtful,
less concerned with local causes and more with national issues, genuinely
horrified at the idea of a Tory government, keen to defend public services and
to restore the good name of Parliament after the expenses scandal (which left
Featherstone unsullied).

Jennings expects a close result: "Lynne Featherstone is locally a popular
politician, so I think I've got to work hard". Featherstone sees no distinction
between local and national issues: after the "disaster" of the expenses scandal
"stickling up for local people is the only way politicians are going to regain
people's trust".

I think Jennings would make a very good MP, but I don't see in her the touch of
steel that makes Featherstone the formidable campaigner she is. But whichever of
these two women wins on 6 May the people of Hornsey and Wood Green will have
done themselves proud.

The person who is not going to win on 6 May, barring the biggest political upset
since the fall of the Bastille, is Richard Merrin, the youngish Tory candidate.
Last time, the Tories managed 12.8 per cent. But he gamely emphasises how warmly
Sir Hugh Rossi is remembered locally, and enthuses about how all the recent
immigrants are bursting with enterprise and hard work and make natural Tory
voters. As the boss of a PR company specialising in technology, he muses about
how this could turn out to be "the first election fought in cyberspace". He may
not get into Parliament this time, but I think he represents the future of the
Tory party.

Two things all the parties seem to agree on. One is that the ethnic communities
live together harmoniously. One party worker remarked that this is probably the
only place in the world where even Greek and Turkish Cypriots get on well
together.

The other is that the electorate of Hornsey and Wood Green is very bright and
highly political. "It's like a university constituency without the university,"
said one Labour party worker. And in this suburban reincarnation of the
Petrograd Soviet, people actually go to meetings. Karen Jennings says: "People
are engaging. I've not been turned away from a door yet. People are being very
thoughtful about the future."

Some confirmation of all that came when I called at the house in Stanhope Road
where I lived 40 or so years ago. The doorbell was answered by Sandip Patel, a
captain in the Queen's Dragoon Guards. He has only lived there a year, but loves
the area. He finds it fascinating too, because he read geography at university
and did a study on gentrification.

So, what has the election meant to him? "A vastly huge number of leaflets
through the door." He hasn't yet decided who he will vote for, but he definitely
intends to vote. I seem to have stumbled upon the absolutely typical intelligent
and politically aware voter of Hornsey and Wood Green.

Wistfully, I drove back through the Blackwall Tunnel to the leafy and deeply
unvibrant Kentish outer suburbs. There, on 6 May, I shall confront a ballot
paper with few "local girls", but prominently featuring Boris Johnson's little
brother, parachuted in as Tory candidate for Orpington. Take me back to dear old
Hornsey.

HORNSEY AND WOOD GREEN 2005 RESULT

* LIBERAL DEMOCRATS Lynne Featherstone 20,512, 43.3%

* LABOUR Barbara Roche 18,117, 38.3%

* CONSERVATIVE Peter Forrest 6,014, 12.7%

* GREEN Jayne Forbes 2,377 5.0%

* UKIP Roy Freshwater 310 0.7%

Lib Dem majority: 2,395

Turnout: 47,330 (61.8%)

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 27, 2010 Tuesday 6:56 AM GMT

This election isn't about Europe, so don't waste your vote on UKIP

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 189 words


If you're thinking of voting UKIP next week, think again. Yes, we should leave
the European Union. Yes, Lord Pearson, the party leader, is fabulous. But voting
UKIP would be a terrible waste - at least outside Buckingham, where
theincumbent, John Bercow,whom I used to like, has proved to be
adisastrousSpeaker.

Britain's exit from the EU will happen, but it will take some time. Dramatic
changes in public policy are caused by major crises, and - even with worries
about Greek debt - we lack a big enough European crisis to force and win a
referendum against our membership.

Besides, this election is not about the EU. It is choice between cutting the
size of the state and trying to keep the state as big as possible. For
libertarians like me, the Tory cuts won't be deep enough - why should the state
take more than 10 per cent of GDP? - but, nevertheless, they are worth having.

If I lived in Buckingham I would vote for Nigel Farage. Elsewhere, it is only by
voting Conservative that you can work towards the libertarian agenda of small
government. Voting UKIP may make you feel good, but it really is nothing more
than an indulgence.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

5 FOR FUN

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 49

LENGTH: 83 words


5 FOR FUN AWhich boxing promoter is standing as a UKIP candidate in Barking in
the General Election? BWhich jockey rode Merigo to victory in the Scottish Grand
National? CWhich Manchester City midfielder, an England Under-21 international,
has the same name as a famous American athlete, winner of five Olympic golds?
DWhich Premier League manager came to prominence as a manager when taking
Wycombe into the Football League? E Which Grand Slam singles title did Pete
Sampras never win? ANSWERS: Page 53

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Gypsies: Britain here we come

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 665 words


THOUSANDS of east European gypsies could be on their way to Britain following
the dramatic rise of a far-Right party in their homeland.

Jobbik, a neo-fascist group that has vowed to "eradicate gypsy crime", won more
than one in six of the votes in Hungary's recent parliamentary elections.
Members of the country's 600,000-strong gypsy community are preparing to leave,
fearing they will become the target of a growing number of racist attacks that
have already left people dead.

The Morics, an extended family of more than a dozen members, are one of many
worried gypsy groups.

They told the Daily Express: "We are moving to Birmingham. We are packing now.
We would have left already if it hadn't been for the volcanic ash stopping the
planes last week."

Roma gypsies have long been attracted to the UK due to our open door immigration
policies and generous welfare benefits. However, last night there was growing
alarm that Britain would end up paying the price for the rise of fascism in
Hungary.

Folly

UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "This shows the sheer folly of
allowing eastern European countries to join us in a political union.

" Jobbik has seen a swell of support across Hungary, but particularly in rural
areas with large gypsy populations.

The party has set up paramilitary groups, known as the Hungarian Guard, who
march through gypsy areas.

Jobbik won 17 per cent of the popular vote in the first round of national
elections earlier this month and the party was expected to consolidate its
position in the second round of voting yesterday.

It is also allied to the UK's British National Party in the European Parliament.

A Second World War ally of Nazi Germany, Hungary has a history of antisemitism
and support of fascism. Last night mother-of-10 Zita Ildiko said: "I am really
worried about Jobbik. They say they want to stage yet another patrol. It is bad
enough as it is now. We live six houses from the police station but that doesn't
help. If I could, I would leave, too."

Gypsy leader Orban Kolompar claims that there has been a dramatic increase in
violence in recent months.

Mr Kolompar, who is leader of the Hungarian Roma Self-Government party, said:
"We are curious and anxious to see what the new government will bring.

"I have heard of gypsies wanting to leave the country. Many are rethinking their
options and it is not just gypsies - many other Hungarians are leaving the
country in hope of a better future. If we do not see the Hungarian Guards
marches stopped we will seek help from the international community."

Jobbik openly promotes its policies against gypsies.

Spokesman Tibor Bana told the Daily Express: "There is a lot of gypsy crime in
Hungary, from the theft of scrap metal to knife attacks and gang rapes,
particularly in rural areas.

"We think a special police body should be formed to clamp down on gypsy crime."

An estimated 12 million gypsies live in Europe, mostly in former Eastern Bloc
countries.

Hundreds of thousands fled their homelands for Britain and other rich western
states when they gained visafree travel after the accession countries - Poland,
Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and Slovenia -
joined the European Union in 2005. Thousands more headed west when Romania and
Bulgaria followed in 2007.

Gypsy children were trafficked into Britain to work as pickpockets and thieves,
while in Italy gypsies have been blamed for a huge crime wave plaguing towns and
cities. Romanian gypsies were repatriated from Ireland after making camp on a
motorway roundabout. Last night the Home Office said there was nothing they
could do stop Eastern European gypsies coming to the UK.

A spokesman explained: "As Hungarian citizens, they have free movement within
the EU."

Has Britain already let in too many migrants?

YES: 0901 030 8338 NO: 0901 030 8339

Yes text DXmonYEs to 80088 no text DXmonno to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Children of the Moric family outside their home at the weekend

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

Reply: Letter: Pegs, percentages and politics

BYLINE: C Venn

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 289 words


Polly Toynbee manages to both damn New Labour yet urge those hoping for radical
politics in Britain to do what they have always done: pinch their noses and vote
for the lesser evil, namely Labour (Comment, 24 April). This time round, she
speculates that poll statistics show that Clegg has zero chance of winning at
least 40% of the vote and so have a majority. This plea for the same old
two-party politics is not only seriously depressing, but fails to see that what
has excited discouraged voters in the current campaign is that strange thing
called hope - in particular, the hope that here might be an opportunity to alter
British politics.

The point of voting at all this time round - after 30 years of neoliberal
politics - is that even a hung parliament will force to the surface the splits
within the Conservative, New Labour and even Lib Dem parties, and produce a new
alignment which will provide real democratic choices for the electorate in
elections to come. One can imagine that if Clegg were to win, or even in the
context of a hung parliament, New Labour would split between the socialist old
left and the New Labour neoliberals, while the Tories would split between the
New Right and the social democratic tendency within its ranks. It is possible
then to see new parties emerging after the election, in the form of a socialist
party on the left, a neoliberal right made up of the right of the Tory party,
Ukip etc, and a centre party made up of remnants of New Labour and Tories
together with the majority of Lib Dems. And with proportional representation a
likely outcome of the May elections, such realignments to reflect the range of
political views among the electorate is well within our grasp.

C Venn

Totnes, Devon

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

Will George Galloway earn Respect victory in Poplar and Limehouse?

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 972 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Bangladeshis form 35% of votes in this newly redrawn seat. The
former Labour MP argues he is the person who can represent their interests best


FULL TEXT

In pursuit of a Guardian Daily Election Podcast I spent today in one of
Britain's more unpredictable and divided constituencies, the newly redrawn
Poplar and Limehouse seat in what was once the impregnable Labour stronghold of
London's East End.

Who's going to win in 2010? Genial ex-fireman turned Labour minister, Jim
Fitzpatrick? Charismatic ex-Labour-turned Respect MP, George Galloway? Or local
councillor, Tim Archer, the bespectacled ex-high street banker (ie, the
respectable variety) who lost his job last year and is campaigning full-time?

Believe it or not, there are people in both Labour and the Respect camps,
certainly Fitzpatrick but not Galloway, who seriously argue that they could
split the core vote and allow the Tories to win here for the first time in over
a century. Archer himself, aged 35, seems to think he's "in with a chance."

If he does head west along the cheap-and-cheerful Docklands Light Railway (DLR)
to Westminster it will be partly due to the growing presence of middle class
professionals in the wards immediately around the Canary Wharf clump of towers -
the City's eastern outpost which employs 95,000 people, 9% of the locals, so
Fitzpatrick tells me.

But the East End is changing in more ways than that. The nearby Millennium Dome
is now the O2 Arena sellout, the Olympic Village is rising to the north.
Renovation is evident everywhere amid residual deprivation. The dominant ethnic
minority, Bangladeshis - Bengalis if you prefer - is only the latest wave of
migrants to pass through Brick Lane and adjacent "hamlets" as the council's own
name notes.

Notionally there is still a Labour majority and my hunch is that Fitzpatrick
will win unless his party suffers a wider disaster on 6 May. But Galloway is a
formidable politician, few more articulate though he has aroused fear and
suspicion as well as admiration for as long as I have known him.

When producer Phil Maynard and I found him at Respect HQ just off Brick Lane -
poor and chic at the same time - his campaign bus had just been taken off the
road by health and safety. While it was being fixed he read papers and smoked a
trademark cigar in his car, pinstripe trousers peeping out beneath his coat.

Listen to the podcast. Galloway says Fitzpatrick can't win because he has
alienated the Bengali community by taking offence at a wedding reception where
men and womwen were separated; by backing the Iraq war and many other New Labour
offences; by helping Andrew Gilligan and C4's Dispatches programme make a
programme which was highly critical of a body called the Islamic Forum of Europe
(IFE).

IFE is a powerful force in the community and even its critics confirm it does
good work in education, in keeping kids off drugs and on the straight and
narrow. The issue is political: does it promote an extreme version of Islam ? Is
it more like the Freemasons, a secretive force in politics which seeks to
penetrate parties rather than run under its own colours?

Fitzpatrick thinks it should stand honestly in its own right. Galloway defends
it from what he calls smears. The Tory candidate in Bethnal Green and Bow - the
seat Galloway vacated, as he said he would after one term - is warily respectful
.

As an outsider I can't judge. But Bangladeshi politics here seem to factional
and volatile. Labour, which controls the council as usual (despite a brief, bad
Lib Dem spell in the 90s), reports six councillors defecting from Respect,
Respect reports two coming the other way. " Village politics," admit partisans
on both sides.

The Bangladeshis are important for two reasons. They are about 35% of Poplar and
Limehouse's voters and tend to vote in greater numbers than the locals - the
white working class which is the core of Jim Fitz's support - unless you believe
Mr Galloway who says he's hacked them off too.

Fitzpatrick is a passionate booster for the newly rising East London - the bit
with only three Thames bridges- when the centre and west have 23 - which is
going to become the driving force in this extraordinarily diverse city in
decades to come, he insists.

Galloway has done some remarkable things, but mostly on the international stage.
He's not a normal East End constituency MP, he says. Galloway denies that: my
case work record is excellent, he counters. In the same way Fitzpatrick denies
being more than "clumsy" in his response to the wedding rebuff.

I could go on - and on. There's a sub-plot in which Respect is backing the case
for an elected mayor to run Tower Hamlets's £1bn a year budget. Ken Livingstone
and even Keith Vaz are backing it too, but Jim Fitz and a section of the local
Labour party are opposed - fearing that too much power may accrue in the wrong
hands. You mean in the hands of a possible Bengali mayor, counters Respect.

When Phil Maynard and I stopped voters in the street we found many as undecided
as they are everywhere else. We found several committed Labour voters - in all
sections of the community including a woman in a full veil; none for Mr Galloway
or Tim the Outsider, not that such a sample means anything.

In Crisp Street market, there was also a wonderful old lady, over 80, " Poplar
born and bred" who remembered from her childhood the much-loved George Lansbury,
local MP and fairly disastrous Labour leader (1931-35), who once sang on a
public platform - a lovely voice, she said.

But she was also full of anxiety about her changing community, about crime and
anti-social behaviour. Listen to her on the podcast, she was both joyful and
fearful. Yes, she will vote but wouldn't say who for. Green, UKIP, Lib Dem,
English Democrat? A protest vote, I suspect. Plenty of them in Poplar and
Limehouse on May 6.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

Guardian/ICM poll: Labour support could fall below 20%

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 847 words

ABSTRACT

Gordon Brown's party could end up in third place as the latest poll suggests
plummeting support has yet to hit bedrock

FULL TEXT

Labour is battling to avoid a disastrous third place in next week's election,
according to the latest . It suggests Labour support - 28% in today's poll - has
not yet hit bedrock and could fall below 20%.

The ICM figures show the Liberal Democrats' surge is sustained, with all three
party scores identical to last week's Guardian/ICM poll. The Conservatives
retain a narrow three-point lead on 33% ahead of the Lib Dems on 30%.  is close
behind on 28%.

Compared with the most recent ICM poll, published on Sunday, Conservative
support is down two, Labour up two and the Lib Dems down one - but those
movements are small and all results are within the margin of error. Support for
other parties is eight points, with no sign of an advance by the Greens or UKIP.

On today's figures, Labour could theoretically become the largest party in
parliament despite coming third in votes. In practice it is likely to lose more
seats than uniform national swing suggests.

Today's poll shows Conservative support is holding firm, with 83% of supporters
saying they do not expect to change their mind before polling day.

By contrast, only 69% of Lib Dems and 68% of Labour voters say they will stick
with their current choice. Almost a third of people supporting Labour say they
might end up backing another party instead.

If that happens, Labour's vote would fall to a minimum of 18%. Its maximum
potential vote - all current supporters plus people who say they may decide to
back it - is 33%. That is three points lower than the party achieved in 2005.

By contrast, the Tory minimum is 27%, and maximum 37% - a level which would
probably give the party a small majority.

The Lib Dems vote is the most volatile: the party's minimum current support is
23% and its maximum 40% - which if achieved would give the party first place in
votes if not seats.

Some people who say they support the Lib Dems also say they are far from certain
to vote, and some did not vote at the last election. Figures for party support
are weighted to reflect the likelihood of each party's supporters actually
turning out on the day.

Nick Clegg is thriving as the party leader least tainted by spin and most
associated with political change. But many voters are sceptical of his ability
to lead a government and see voting  as a protest against the other parties.

Overall, 58% agree with the statement "the Liberal Democrats represent something
new and different", against 37% who disagree. That includes 56% of current
Labour supporters and 39% of Conservatives.

The Lib Dems are appealing most of all to young voters - 64% of 18-24s think the
party is different. Pensioners are the least impressed, with only 49% agreeing.

Meanwhile, 40% of all voters say they can imagine a Liberal Democrat government
led by Nick Clegg as prime minister, while 55% say they cannot.

Lib Dem supporters overwhelmingly see Clegg as a potential PM: 80% say he could
run the country. But only 16% of Conservatives and 31% of Labour supporters
agree.

However voters reject the idea that the Lib Dems are only a protest party: 51%
reject the idea.

There is also evidence that the bandwagon effect is helping the party pick up
votes: 31% of all voters, including 26% of Labour supporters, say knowing that
other people are switching to the Lib Dems encourages them to do the same.

However Clegg's party lags behind on policy. On the economy, the subject of this
week's final leaders' debate, the Tory team of David Cameron and George Osborne
are narrowly ahead of Labour's team of Brown and Alistair Darling, 30% to 29%.
Clegg and Vince Cable are third, picked by 23%. Among Liberal Democrats'
supporters, 21% think the Labour team is better placed to run the economy.

That tight race is reflected in the battle over cuts: 50% say spending should
start to fall now (up four since March) while 44% say it should not (down four).
Supporters of cuts now narrowly outnumber opponents, but only Conservative
voters are in favour. Most Labour and Lib Dem voters do not want immediate cuts,
suggesting Cameron may not pick up support if he repeats his call for them in
the debate.

Finally, there is some sign Cameron is recovering support: 38% say he is
campaigning best for people like them, up five on last week. That is nine points
ahead of Brown but nine behind Clegg, who leads on 38%.

Meanwhile 35% say Cameron is the most competent potential prime minister (up
three), against 29% who say Brown and 22% Clegg.

The Lib Dem leader is overwhelmingly seen as the most honest leader: only 17%
say he is more spin than substance (up four on last week) against 24% who say
Brown (down five) and 44% who say Cameron, unchanged.

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1031 adults aged 18+ by telephone on
23-25 April 2010. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

From the youngest MP to the youngest ex-MP, if Harman has her way;
A year after taking Norwich North, Chloe Smith faces an even bigger battle to
retain the seat for the Tories. By Andy McSmith

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1260 words


Time was when ambitious, smart, media-savvy university graduates with thoughts
of a political career learned slogans like "the fairness agenda" and "a hand up,
not a hand out" and were elected as New Labour MPs. Now they say "vote for
change" and "big society" and run as Tories.

Chloe Smith, a Cameron-style Conservative, was the only MP in the last
Parliament too young to have been caught up in the excitement when Tony Blair
and Gordon Brown unleashed New Labour. Too young to vote in 1997, she was the
first person to be sitting in the House of Commons while still paying off a
student loan.

Now she may also chalk up another record: she could be the first woman in
British political history to be an ex-MP before she is 30.

Having won Norwich North in a by-election a year ago, she would have been
supremely confident of holding the seat a few weeks ago. But since the gap in
the opinion polls between Labour and Conservatives narrowed, she is in danger of
giving the Labour one of their few reasons to cheer when results come in on 6
May.

If she were unseated, it would be a sign of how politics has changed. Tony Blair
used to say that Labour could win only if it campaigned and governed as New
Labour. But in Norwich North, this young Tory MP looks more New Labour than her
Labour challenger, John Cook. He is a tribal Labour man whose last job was as
the party's eastern regional organiser in Ipswich.

In last year's Norwich North by-election, Chloe Smith did not just beat the
hapless New Labour candidate, Chris Ostrowski, she slaughtered him, taking
nearly 40 per cent of the vote and pushing Labour below 20 per cent. But the
circumstances were exceptional. It was set off by the sudden resignation of Ian
Gibson, a popular, independent-minded Labour MP who had represented Norwich
North since 1997.

The party whips had told Mr Gibson that he was barred from standing again,
because he had sold his taxpayer-subsidised second home to his daughter. Many
suspected that his real offence, in the whips' eyes, was all those occasions
when he had voted against the government.

By resigning immediately, Mr Gibson sacrificed the generous pay-offs for MPs who
leave at a general election. In the resulting by-election, Labour was deserted
both by those disgusted by the expenses scandal, and those who thought that Mr
Gibson had been unfairly singled out.

John Cook is one of them. "I was a close supporter of Ian and a personal friend
for 20 years," he said. "We met up for a curry a week ago. I am on record as
saying he was treated disproportionately. He assisted me in my selection
campaign.

"There was a lot of anger in the by-election, about the whole expenses scandal
and about Ian, and people felt that they could have a protest vote or stay at
home and it would not mean a change of government. People who did not vote last
year, or switched from Labour to Conservative, are now saying they will vote
Labour. I've got a very good chance."

Mr Cook's grandparents were farm workers. His father went into the police after
national service. Now aged 45, he joined the Norwich Labour Party during the
1987 general election, and was election agent for both Norwich constituencies in
1997.

He was backed up by an impressive squadron of young Labour activists when
Harriet Harman paid a whistle-stop visit to the constituency last week. As they
went canvassing in Catton Grove, Norwich, they came upon 78-year-old Margaret
Durrant, who did not vote in the by-election, but will this time.

"I can't remember where I was that day," she said. "It did not seem so important
because it was only a by-election, but I'm definitely, definitely going to vote
Labour this time."

There are no safe Labour seats in the east of England, but Norwich North is one
the places Labour should win in a good year. Ian Gibson held it with 45 per cent
of the vote in 2005. Since then the boundaries have changed in a way that helps
Labour.

Ipsos MORI carried out an opinion poll earlier this month in the neighbouring
Norwich South seat. Surprisingly, it showed no significant change in Labour or
Conservative support. The only real difference, according to the poll, was that
the Greens were pushing the Liberal Democrats into fourth place. Norwich is
where the Greens have their second-strongest showing, after Brighton.

It suggests that Norwich South's Labour MP, the former Home Secretary Charles
Clarke, will hold his seat against a divided opposition. And logically, if the
Labour vote is holding up that well in the south of the town, it ought to be
recovering in the north from its by-election low.

However, Labour's problem is that, having acquired a young, energetic MP a year
ago, the voters of Norwich North may decide to stick with her.

Although she will not like having anyone say it, Chloe Smith is very like one of
those smart, confident Labour women known as "Blair's babes" who were elected by
the dozen in 1997. All that is missing is the bright red suit with shoulder pads
which was the Blair's babes' uniform.

Aged 28, she went to a comprehensive school in Methwold, in Norfolk. Her mother
once ran a bed and breakfast, but that does not mean that Ms Smith agrees with
the shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling, who suggested that people who offered
bed and breakfast in their homes should have the right to turn away gay couples.

"I think he was wrong. I think he was caught off guard," she said - which is
exactly the same message that has been given out by the Tory head office spin
doctors.

Ms Smith is far too sharp to wander off-message under questioning, although
sometimes, when the question is unexpected, there is a notable pause while she
works out the best answer. She paused for thought when she was asked whether she
might have been a New Labour MP had she been 10 or 12 years older, until the
internal voice of caution told her to say "No".

"New Labour, throughout its time, and the Old Labour that you now see coming
out, are all about things I don't believe - interfering with family life, with
business, with professionals trying to do their jobs - New Labour has regulated
them to death. I'm a Conservative because I believe in the individual," she
said.

As she was out leafleting in Hellesdon, a prosperous Norwich suburb, a sports
car drew to a halt so that the driver could give her an encouraging thumbs up.
He was Mike Barker, who runs a local tree-surgery business. He believes
emphatically that Chloe Smith deserves to win, but he is not certain that she
will, because of the preponderance of Labour voters in the centre of town.

"They're completely brainwashed," he said. "You're dealing with a society where
they're used to being given [things] - instead of taking the opportunity to go
out and get. But Chloe's a good girl. She is one of the most switched on MPs I
have ever seen."

Her Labour rival does not share this warm assessment. "I finder her a cold
person," Mr Cook said. "She talks a good script, but I don't know where her
politics are coming from." He added: "I couldn't ever have been anything other
than Labour."

It is a phenomenon of which we will see more when the new Parliament assembled
next month - Labour MPs who could never have been anything but Labour, and
youngish Tories who do not look like Tories. The New Labour project has been and
gone.

NORWICH NORTH 2005 RESULT

* LABOUR Ian Gibson 21,097, 44.9%

* CONSERVATIVE James Tumbridge 15,638, 33.2%

* LIB DEM Robin Whitmore 7,616, 16.2%

* GREEN PARTY Adrian Holmes 1,252, 2.7%

* UKIP John Youles 1,122, 2.4%

* INDEPENDENT Bill Holden 308, 0.7%

Labour majority: 5,459 Turnout: 47,033 (61%)

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             April 26, 2010 Monday

Features - Make the fat cats pay

BYLINE: Ann Douglas

LENGTH: 1199 words


The Communist Party of Britain is contesting six seats in the general election,
in addition to mayoral and local council contests in the London boroughs of
Hackney and Croydon.

The party's manifesto, Britain for the People Not the Bankers - Make the Fat
Cats Pay, points to the "bankruptcy of big-business capitalism."

It insists there is no need to slash public services in the sixth richest
country in the world, showing that Britain's national debt as a share of
economic output is lower than in Germany, France, Japan or the US.

On the domestic front, the manifesto proposes a Left-Wing Programme of policies
to invest in public services, productive industry and non-nuclear renewable
energy; take the financial, energy and public transport sectors into public
ownership; build one million council houses; boost state pensions and benefits;
raise the national minimum wage and enforce equal pay for women; repeal racist
immigration, asylum and nationality laws and introduce an amnesty for illegal
immigrants; scrap ID card plans and restore all democratic liberties lost under
new Labour since 1997.

The manifesto quotes from the Office for National Statistics report Wealth in
Great Britain (December 2009) to reveal that just 10 per cent of the population
own 44 per cent of declared personal wealth, while the poorest 50 per cent have
seen their share fall from 7 per cent when new Labour took office in 1997 to 1
per cent today.

Not surprisingly, then, the Communist Party calls for a wealth tax on the
'super-rich," a windfall tax on oil, gas, electricity and retail monopoly
profits and for closing all tax havens under British jurisdiction.

The party also makes clear its preference for a Labour victory rather than a
Cameron government, arguing that the Tories would cut even deeper into public
services and employment and trade union rights.

At the same time, Communists are also backing left-wing candidates such as Unity
for Peace and Socialism's Avtar Sadiq in Leicester East, independent socialist
John Metcalfe in Carlisle, Salma Yaqoob (Respect) in Birmingham Hall Green and
Trade Union and Socialist candidates Dave Nellist (Coventry NE) and Valerie Wise
(Preston).

But whoever forms the next government, the Communist Party warns that the trade
unions and the left will need to mobilise a broad movement to defend public
services, jobs and democratic rights against a massive "ruling-class offensive."

Croydon North

Croydon North has one of the largest electorates in Britain. It is
overwhelmingly working class, with very big Asian, Afro-Caribbean and African
communities.

"One in three workers are employed in the public sector and they face severe
challenges whichever party wins the general elections or runs Croydon Borough
Council," declares Communist Party parliamentary candidate Ben Stevenson.

"Cuts to bail out the bankers are already hitting the local Mayday hospital and
Croydon College."

His campaign to make City "fat cats" and 'spivs" pay for clearing up their
financial mess is going down well on the doorstep.

These and other Communist Party policies have gone down well at local hustings
organised by Croydon Trades Council, the National Union of Teachers and the
Public and Commercial Services Union.

The Communists are also contesting three seats in the local elections on May 6.

Labour's Malcolm Wicks is sitting on a 14,000-vote majority in Croydon North,
and his campaign to keep the parliamentary seat has consisted largely of
commercial mailshots.

"He hasn't stepped out of line since he got his knuckles rapped in 1995 for an
article in Tribune," Stevenson remarks, 'so he has backed all of new Labour's
policies for war, privatisation and a police state."

This makes the Labour candidate's recent opposition to the Trident nuclear
weapons system all the more puzzling, especially as he has twice voted in favour
of renewing it.

North Devon

Communist author and designer Gerry Sables is contesting North Devon. At first
glance, it is less than promising territory on which to raise the red flag.

A largely rural constituency, it has some light engineering, an agricultural
sector with few farmworkers and a tourist industry which offers jobs that are
seasonal and low-paid.

But the Communist Party has grown significantly in the main town of Barnstaple,
where members are well known for their trade union, peace movement and Cuba
solidarity campaigning.

Important local issues include the serious underfunding of education in Devon.

With Labour Party organisation disintegrating in many parts of the county, it
falls increasingly to Communist candidates in the local and parliamentary
elections on May 6 to highlight the issue.

"We have already received publicity in the local press and BBC - and I've even
written an article for the weekly Farmers Guardian," enthuses Sables.

"In order to save money, the new Labour government preferred to combat bovine
tuberculosis by culling badgers instead of immunising cattle."

Liberal Democrat Nick Harvey is defending North Devon with a comfortable
majority.

The main threat to his seat comes from Tory candidate Philip Milton, a local
housing landlord and financial adviser.

Milton describes the payment of housing benefit to tenants instead of their
landlords as "like giving an alcoholic the keys to the wine cellar," and worries
that women tenants in financial trouble might buy food for their children rather
than handing over the rent.

Bizarrely, he has also proclaimed himself a "Christian socialist" in the North
Devon Journal.

Cardiff South and Penarth

Cardiff South and Penarth is an overwhelmingly working-class constituency, with
the highest level of child poverty in Wales.

Former Welsh first minister Alun Michael is sitting on a substantial 9,000
majority.

But hustings held by the United Nations Association and the Penarth Council of
Churches have given Communist Party candidate Robert Griffiths two victories on
the clapometer.

"Our party's policies to defend public services, make big business pay for the
capitalist crisis and bring the troops home from Afghanistan are very popular,"
the party's general secretary explains.

The Communists have challenged the other candidates to attend a hustings meeting
tomorrow in the heart of the constituency, Splott. All but one have accepted.

"I'm looking forward to hearing former CND activist and self-proclaimed
Christian socialist Alun Michael defend voting for the Iraq war, student top-up
fees, foundation hospitals, ID cards and Trident renewal - and against measures
to combat climate change and enforce equal pay for women," says Griffiths.

The shortage of affordable housing is a major issue in the constituency.

The Communist Party leader has sharply attacked a deal between Tory-run Vale of
Glamorgan Council and property developers Crest, whereby a former council estate
in Penarth has been earmarked for 300 prime-site luxury homes and only 76
'socially affordable" units.

After Griffiths argued in a recent debate that the "private housing market
driven by profit will never build houses to meet social need," Ukip candidate
Simon Ziegler promptly announced that he agreed with every word.

The Splott hustings meeting will be held at 5.15pm on Tuesday at the Star
Centre.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

People want change - but they also fear it;
We mustn't underestimate the importance of immigration, even down here in the
West Country

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1038 words


The general election campaign of 2010 started quietly. It seemed probable that
the Conservatives would win an overall majority, though a hung Parliament with
the Tories as the largest party was a possibility.

The critical day turned out to be Thursday, April 15. That evening, I had to
choose between watching the first television debate at home or going to Martock
to hear the Somerton & Frome hustings.

I have to declare an interest. I was enjoying my own view of the campaign, from
the vantage point of having two children, Jacob and Annunziata, as Conservative
candidates in Somerset. I reckoned that I could watch repeats of the national
debate, but that Martock would give me a better insight into local opinion. So I
opted for Martock and watched the television debate later.

Martock has one of the great medieval churches of Somerset. The town itself has
an ancient history; before the Norman Conquest it belonged to Edith, the wife of
Edward the Confessor; she is buried in Westminster Abbey, which her husband
built. The county historian of Somerset, the Rev John Collinson, measured the
great church in the 1790s. He describes it as "a spacious and elegant Gothick
structure, built of Ham-hill stone, 150 feet long and 62 feet wide", the tower
at the west end is 90ft high.

There are five candidates standing for Somerton & Frome: David Heath, who is the
incumbent Lib Dem member, Annunziata, for the Conservatives, a Labour candidate,
a UKIP candidate and an Independent with a background in UKIP politics. It was
interesting that the Martock debate to some degree followed the pattern of the
leaders' debate.

Mr Heath campaigns as the man of experience, which was similar to Gordon Brown's
role in the first television debate. Annunziata campaigns as the candidate of
youth and change, a role contested by David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

The Martock hustings were indeed very polite; the following week there was
another hustings in Wincanton, when things became rather noisier, particularly
over the Lib Dem proposal of an amnesty for illegal immigrants.

Mr Clegg's success in the leaders' debate changed the atmosphere of the campaign
and the polls. It is now quite conceivable that Labour will come third in votes,
but nevertheless win the most seats.

Hung Parliaments are uncommon, but the first election of 1974 produced one in
which the Conservatives were the biggest party in terms of votes, but Labour did
win four more seats. The outcome was a Labour government under Harold Wilson,
with Liberal support, but without a coalition.

There was another interesting hung Parliament in 20th-century political history.
In 1923, the Conservatives won 258 seats, on 38.1 per cent of the total vote,
Labour won 191 seats on 30.5 per cent, and the Liberals, under the leadership of
Asquith, won 159 seats, with 29.6 per cent.

The Conservatives were the largest party but Asquith decided that the national
interest would best be served if he allowed Ramsay MacDonald to form the first
Labour Government, with Liberal sympathy. In fact, as in 1974, the
administration lasted for less than a year. There is certainly a possibility
that the 2010 election will be followed by another short Parliament.

In the case of the Liberals, 1923 proved to be their last chance to gain power,
at least for the 20th century. Labour made what proved to be a vital move; once
it had been in office, people knew that it was capable of holding power, as
Labour has done in many subsequent Parliaments. Asquith's decision to let Labour
in proved almost fatal for his party. However one looks at the 1923 election, it
was the Liberals who lost and the Conservatives who gained most. The Liberals
and Labour became competitors for the role of the party of the Centre Left. For
the Liberal Democrats, it would be reasonable to regard the Conservatives as the
opposition, but Labour as their enemy.

But the Conservative anxiety now is more concerned with the electoral system. In
theory a fully proportional system might lead to a long-term alliance between
Labour and the Lib Dems, which might exclude the Conservatives from office for
more than one Parliament.

Somerset is a county with strong family and conservative instincts. I
accompanied canvassing teams in Midsomer Norton in northeast Somerset, where
Jacob is fighting. I was invited to sit in the sunshine on a garden wall and
talked to the lady of the house who, like myself, is a grandparent and worries
about the difficulties of raising families in modern life. She worries, as I do,
about the loss of the old Somerset.

Somerset people value the quiet culture of their county but fear it is being
undermined. The canvassers told me that it was no accident that immigration had
proved to be the hot question at the Wincanton hustings.

In fact there has been relatively little inward migration to Somerset, but there
is certainly a feeling that it has been out of control in the Labour years.
There is also a Eurosceptic attitude in the South West, and it has grown
stronger, and there is resentment that Somerset has been neglected by the
present Government.

Many people are afraid that their world is changing. So immigration is seen by
voters as a broad issue, under which a number of other concerns about unwelcome
change are attached - including crime, drugs, housing and unemployment. On this
cultural issue the Conservatives have the lead. The Lib Dems probably come third
to Labour. The image of the Lib Dems is the farthest removed from conservative
values, which most people want to protect in the West Country. I shall not be
surprised if the Conservatives outperform the projection of the polls. I think
that they now benefit because they are seen as the conservative party, a
reputation that was enhanced by successive leaders after John Major, even though
they lost three elections.

People in the West Country do want change - they have liberal views - but they
can see change as a threatening force. I think that is how the grandparents of
Midsomer Norton feel.

Election 2010 Who will win in your constituency? Check out the Times interactive
map timesonline.co.uk/election2010

The 1923 election was the Liberals last chance to gain power

Somerset people value the quiet culture of their county

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 26, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Labour battles with the 'Devine effect' as SNP newcomer offers a fresh start

BYLINE: Hamish Macdonell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 471 words


Livingston could be the only seat in Scotland whose fate will be determined by
someone who is not standing for election. That man is Jim Devine, its former MP,
and one of the three Labour MPs facing criminal charges for alleged expenses
fraud.

The "Devine effect" has already hurt Labour and given a fillip to the party's
main challengers, the SNP. The big question is whether it will hurt Labour
enough to hand the seat to the Nationalists.

"It was probably the legal aid thing that started to really tip the balance
against Labour," says Angela Constance, the SNP MSP for Livingston. This was Mr
Devine's decision to seek legal aid to pay his court costs-- after having argued
that he should be exempt from standing trial because of his position as a
parliamentarian.

This area of West Lothian has elected Labour MPs for as long as anyone can
remember, but the expenses scandal appears to have left Labour tottering on the
brink of defeat.

Voters everywhere are expressing their anger and disgust at MPs' extravagances,
but in Livingston they have a specific target. Mr Devine's court case has
singled him out for even more opprobrium than the rest of his Westminster
colleagues and his successor as the Labour candidate, Graeme Morrice, is having
to cope with the fallout.

Mr Morrice is remarkably bullish, however, and while he accepts that his
predecessor's problems are an issue for Labour, he insists they will not affect
his push for victory. "Some people do mention it but people recognise the party
has moved on. We have drawn a line under it. We have a new candidate," he said.

Mr Morrice, a councillor in Livingston for 22 years and council leader for 12
years, believes he will be judged on his own merits. TheSNP believes it has the
perfect antidote to Mr Devine in Lis Bardell. The candidate could not be more
different from a middle-aged male career politician. Ms Bardell, a 61-year-old
former probation officer and university lecturer, said: "I am a more mature
candidate. I am a firsttime candidate. People like that."

For a constituency that has been staunchly Labour for generations, the ground
does appear to have shifted in the Nationalists' favour in the past few years.
They started making inroads at council level and then won the seat at the 2007
Scottish Parliament election.

Yet Mr Morrice is so confident of success that he declared: "The SNP will not
take Livingston." Ms Bardell, though, is cautious. "We have a good chance," was
all she would say.

The rivals

Candidates (swing needed to take the seat Graeme Morrice Labour Lis Bardell SNP
(14.8%) Charles Dundas

Lib Dem (17.9%)

Alison Adamson-Ross Con (20.5%)

Alistair Forrest UKIP

Ally Hendry SSP

David Orr BNP

Jim Slavin Ind

2005 by-election result

Jim Devine, Labour, 12,319

Angela Constance, SNP, 9,639

Charles Dundas, Lid Dem, 4,362

Gordon Lindhurst, Con, 1,993

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lis Bardell, second right, campaigning at the Craigshill shopping
centre
LOUISA MACDONELL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 25, 2010
                                 First Edition

It's really a 139-horse race now;
(140 if you count the pantomime horse) Plus, in an action-packed programme, some
celebrity thoughts, no sweat, and where's Blairy? Randall and Rentoul unleashed
David Randall (below left) and John Rentoul (right) - taking their cue from one
of television's best-loved detective series, Randall and Hopkirk (Deceased) -
sort the wheat from the spin to provide all you need to see you through the
general election campaign

BYLINE: David Randall and John Rentoul

SECTION: NEWS WEEKLY; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 1754 words


Runners and riders

At much cost to our own sanity, we have now surveyed all nominated candidates.
There are 4,149 of them, representing no fewer than 139 different parties. Some
of the lesser known causes in which your votes are being sought are: the Nobody
Party, Community Need Before Private Greed Party, Get Snouts Out The Trough
Party, Go Mad and Vote for Yourself Party, the Middle England Party (curiously,
standing in the Isle of Wight, which we would have thought was more the preserve
of the Southernmost Tip of England Party), Scotland Against Crooked Lawyers
Party, The Best of a Bad Bunch Party, and the Virtue Currency Cognitive
Appraisal Party.

How it works

No 3. How to vote for a hung parliament

Several campaigns have been set up to persuade people to "hang parliament",
either on the grounds that parties sharing power is a good thing in itself or
that it is a way to achieve reform of the voting system.

t Charter 2010, endorsed by former SDP leader David Owen, urges politicians to
prepare for a hung parliament by discussing a GNU - Government of National
Unity, formed by a grand coalition of all three main parties, to deal with the
economic crisis.

t Vote for a Change, the campaign for electoral reform, "is campaigning for a
hung parliament - it is our only hope". Last week it hanged, or hung, an effigy
of the Palace of Westminster in Parliament Square to publicise its campaign.

t The Progressive Parliament Network is running a similar campaign, but its
objective is "radical change on social justice, democracy and the environment".

Willie Sullivan, director of Vote for a Change, told the New Statesman last week
that the logic of the existing system "often means we have to back a candidate
with a realistic chance of winning to prevent a worse option". Yes, but for
which party should someone who wants a hung parliament vote?

The answer is very simple. The party with the best chance winning an overall
majority is the Conservatives (the betting market says that is a 40 per cent
chance). Anyone who is serious about a hung parliament should, therefore, vote
for the candidate best placed to beat the Tory. They are also, coincidentally,
the only major party implacably opposed to electoral reform.

Election quotes

"First thing, we should get rid of the Archbishop of Canterbury. When he said
sharia law was not just necessary but inevitable, I thought: no, he's got to
go." - Nigel Farage, Ukip candidate for Buckingham.

"I am not Jacqui Smith. I don't claim a second home allowance and my husband
doesn't watch porn." - Reported reaction by Harriet Harman, (left) deputy leader
of the Labour Party, after being mistaken for the former Home Secretary.

"Labour has demonised toffs, for want of a better word. They have demonised
education, they have demonised hunting, any gentlemanly pursuits." - Nicky
Haslam, interior designer.

"We've always got on very well together. We are on perfectly good terms. He is a
class act. I like him. He always has at least one plot." - Kenneth Clarke,
shadow business secretary, on his opposite number, Lord Mandelson.

"I've got plenty of elections right in the past." - Clare Petulengro, a
Blackpool seafront clairvoyant, who predicts a big Tory win.

"Note to Clegg and Cameron: refuse to wear so much make-up for the next debate.
Heavy one-tone pancake base looks like a mask. Just say 'No!'" - Elizabeth
Hurley, model and actress.

"What's a bigger challenge - running 40 marathons or getting Labour elected?" -
Heckler at Cambridge challenges comedian Eddie Izzard, left, who said "they are
both hard".

"The Tory in me is dismayed by the election news - but the vandal is thrilled.
Apple-cart on its side! Fruit rolling everywhere." - Matthew Parris, former
Conservative MP.

"This is not a political machine. I think I would describe it as a contraption."
- Former MP and ex-war correspondent Martin Bell at the launch of independent
candidates.

"Tony Blair sort of killed it for me." - Actor Bob Hoskins, who said he would
vote against Labour for the first time in his life.

Political anorak's quiz

First the answers to last week's questions. The shortest length of time between
someone becoming an MP and PM is two years, by William Pitt the Younger in 1783;
and, in 1974, the Liberals had to amass six million votes to win just 14 seats.

Now this week's question: Which devout prime minister predicted the end of the
world and what was the date he plumped for?

Poster watch

Both Harriet Harman and Tessa Jowell may win in their safe south London
fastnesses, but there are worrying signs they are losing the hearts, minds and
windows of the poster-sticking classes. A drive around their constituencies
reveals a sudden rash of Lib-Dem orange. Meanwhile, a drive through West Sussex
and Surrey shows an inordinate number of Ukip placards in farmers' fields. They
bear the slogan: "Say No to the EU". This seems curious, for if any people have
benefited from EU money down the years, surely it is farmers.

Lucky Tories

In 2005, Ukip polled more than 600,000 votes. If these had gone to the
Conservatives, Michael Howard would have come within 200,000 of beating Tony
Blair. This time, the Tories are rather less fearful of the Ukip effect. In two
places, their candidates - Douglas Carswell in Clacton, and Philip Hollobone in
Kettering - have been judged sufficiently Euro-hostile for Ukip to step aside
and give them a clear run. Whatever you think of Ukip's politics, this does seem
smart tactics.

A doctor writes

Some of you have been puzzled by one aspect of the leaders' debates: that these
men, despite being under strong lights and great pressure, show no sign of
perspiring. Medical specialists have been consulted, and we can report that the
condition of excessive sweating - or hyperhidrosis as the sweatologists call it
- is treatable by drugs. Curiously, one of the most effective is botox. Have we
stumbled on a larger story?

Where are they now?

Will Anthony Charles Lynton Blair, last heard of touring the Far East to make a
speech for a fee of roughly £200,000, please contact the Labour Party in London?
They believe that things are so desperate that an appearance by Mr Sincerity
could only help. If you have seen Mr Blair, right, please contact the nearest
British embassy.

On the doorstep...

Evidence that a sense of humour has not been entirely extinguished in the Labour
Party comes from Grimsby, where Austin Mitchell is running to extend his tenure
beyond its present 33 years. In an online message to voters, he writes: "We are
now using all the modern technology available including a seance to contact dead
voters and a volunteer force of 500 pigeons to deliver messages to Loft Avenue,
Grimsby." Meanwhile, in Clitheroe, Lib Dem Allan Knox is now using a wooden
spoon to push leaflets through letterboxes. A dog, apparently, was so eager to
grab Mr Knox's message to voters that he nipped the candidate's right hand.

Obvious polls of the week

Barely an hour goes by without our offices receiving the latest intelligence
from the polling community. Few of their findings qualify for insights. A poll
from Opinion Matters, for a firm that sells to the over-60s, found that, among
retired voters, the big issues were the NHS and "pensioner welfare". Fancy that.

The sceptical voter's guide to the week

Sunday: "Clegg nearly as popular as Churchill" the preposterous but catchy
Sunday Times headline based on an opinion poll by YouGov that showed Clegg with
a 72 per cent approval rating against 83 per cent for Winston Churchill (right)
in 1945. Designed, of course, to encourage scoffing at the electoral pretensions
of Mr Clegg, it failed to point out that Churchill's popularity didn't last. He
lost to a famous Labour landslide that July.

Monday: David Cameron scrapped a planned Conservative election broadcast, and
substituted a straight-to-camera-from-my-back-garden claim that he, not someone
else (whose name or party he did not mention), was the new politics. A new poll
puts the Lib Dems 17 per cent up, and the Tories down to just 23 per cent. It
relates to voting intentions in Wales, and is a reminder this election is
remarkably English-centric.

Tuesday: The Daily Telegraph featured Nick Clegg's schooldays at Westminster
school on its front page, which seemed to involve tennis and girlfriends. Truly
shocking. David Cameron in Tamworth took the head off the Daily Mirror's chicken
and asked it what the question was of which he was supposed to be afraid. The
chicken didn't know and had to refer to a Mirror minder. Cameron 1 Chicken 0.

Wednesday: Cameron egged by a young man in a hoodie, thus allowing the
Conservative leader to quip that the puzzle had finally been solved: the chicken
came first. George Osborne appeared on a chancellors' debate with a new
side-parted hair style. Kenneth Clarke appeared at a news conference with him
and said that a hung parliament would cause the markets to "wobble" and that it
would make it more likely that Britain would need help from the International
Monetary Fund. Osborne looked uneasy.

Thursday: The Sun, Daily Mail, The Daily Telegraph and Daily Express launch
separate, but somehow wonderfully co-ordinated, front-page attacks on Clegg. A
letter from Mr Zinoviev, outlining Moscow's funding of the Liberal Democrats, is
expected to be published by the mail any day now. In the non-Tory press, David
Cameron faced another burst of unhelpful candour from a frontbencher on gay
rights, as Julian Lewis, a defence spokesman, repeated his view that equalising
the age of consent put teenage boys at "serious physical risk" from HIV. Third
debate hosted by Adam Boulton for Sky News from Bristol.

Friday: The day dawns on conflicting snap polls on last night's debate, watched
by four million. Sky had Clegg and Cameron joint winners, as did The Times;
polls for ITV News and The Guardian said it was Clegg; while one for The Sun put
Cameron in the lead, followed by Clegg. Back in the real world, the last major
economic indicator before election day came in: GDP grew by 0.2 per cent in
first three months of the year. And, speaking of such things, the deficit
remains the under-discussed issue.

Saturday: The onslaught on Clegg in the Conservative press continues. The Man
Himself spent the day with his three sons, freshly returned from a volcanic
dust-extended trip to Europe. Cameron attended his sister's wedding, and Gordon
Brown went on the stump. In Corby, Northants, an Elvis impersonator seranaded
him with a rendition of "Suspicious Minds" - lyrics that strike something of a
chord with voters.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 25, 2010
                                 First Edition

The tribes, they are a-changin': ask any Essex girl like Boudicca;
Spotting election posters shows that old political certainties no longer apply,
in Norwich if not in Cornwall; how Labour's determination to reform the Lords
could backfire; the Feelgood factor; and teen egg rage The bottom line

BYLINE: DJ Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 102

LENGTH: 1484 words


To walk for even a few minutes through the constituency of Norwich South - its
car-clogged council estates, its tree-lined bourgeois thoroughfares, its
bed-sittered student terraces - is to be made sharply aware of how little the
old tribalism endures. Thirty years ago, the political demarcations of Norwich's
real estate were set in stone. Leaving our front door at election time, one
wandered west through clumps of Conservative posters until the council houses
began, whereupon the posters changed abruptly to red. Beyond Colman Road, half a
mile away, there were stretches of mixed housing, where the demographic veered
from owner-occupier to municipal-renter from one street to the next, with the
banners dutifully following suit. There were, of course, always fewer
Conservative placards, on the excellent grounds that these were likely to be
smashed up during the small hours and the fragments thrown back over one's
garden fence.

If this ability to predict how people were going to vote rested on the kind of
house they lived in, then it also extended to the careers they pursued. I don't
recall a single parent of the boys I was at school with voting anything other
than Conservative, except perhaps a university lecturer or two quietly favouring
the Liberals - a piece of whimsicality more or less on a par with having your
front door painted purple. My father was a boy from a poorish home who won a
council scholarship to the local private school and acquired a white-collar job.
My mother was the granddaughter of a shopkeeper in a Suffolk market town. It was
inconceivable that either of them would have voted for Harold Wilson, whom they
regarded as shifty and in thrall to the militant left, or Jeremy Thorpe, whom
they thought simply irrelevant.

Three decades later, the old certainties have been blown apart. A stroll down
the top of Unthank Road, one of Norwich's classiest residential quadrants,
reveals a panorama of Green Party banners and Lib Dem exhortations, with barely
a Tory poster in sight. Even my father, towards the end of his life, abandoned
the Tories at least once for Ukip on the grounds that the former were, as he put
it, "poor boys". I have no idea how my mother will be voting, but I doubt it
will be for David Cameron. If it comes to that, this long-time member of the
Labour Party has serious doubts about Gordon Brown.

***

On the other hand, there are some areas of our national life where aspects of
the old tribalism are still going strong. Driving back from Cornwall a few days
ago, past field upon field bearing pictures of the well-lunched faces of Tory
MPs, I asked the children if they could account for this bias. "Because farmers
are Conservatives," one of them volunteered. True or false? Certainly, there
can't be many cultivators of the rolling West Country arable getting ready to
vote Labour, but how does the average Welsh hill-farmer place his cross? Or a
Gloucestershire apple-grower watching his 100 acres being steadily squashed into
insignificance by the giant agribusinesses on either side?

The urge to track political affiliations back to livelihood has deep historical
roots. George Orwell, for example, once suggested - with apparent seriousness -
that "all tobacconists are fascists". Malcolm Muggeridge later wrote an amusing
critique of this statement, starting with the premise that this was one of
Orwell's trademark unprovable assertions, but then getting gradually seduced by
the effrontery of it, and concluding that, yes, there really was something
rather strange about all those intent, brooding little men cooped up in their
fag-lined hutches, and perhaps they were a legion of right-wing fantasists. No
coincidence that Pierre-Marie Poujade, leader of the French political movement
that bore his name, was a small shopkeeper. Somehow you doubt that there are
many social groups whose members can still be characterised in this way, or even
political parties where any kind of blanket unanimity prevails.

I can remember being highly amused by a World in Action documentary from the
strike-bound 1970s which demonstrated that a fair number of coalminers voted
Conservative. No doubt the Campaign for the Preservation of Rural England has
its fifth column of property developers, and the British National Party its
"liberal wing".

***

The week's most depressing political moment undoubtedly came in the interview
granted by Gordon Brown to The Independent, in which he talked of his desire to
forge a new "progressive alliance" aimed at keeping the Conservatives
permanently out of office. Judging by the opinion polls, the voters are
unimpressed. The word from the political columns is that several of Mr Brown's
cabinet colleagues have similar reservations. Naturally, one of the great
unwritten laws of politics is that party leaders, overcome by the pressures of
the moment, have a habit of saying things they will later come to regret, but it
would take an extensive trawl through recent political history to find anything
quite so wantonly opportunistic.

How many times in the past three years has Mr Brown noticed that Lib Dems even
exist, much less wanted to form a progressive alliance with them? Then there is
his much-advertised conversion to constitutional reform and the idea of an
elected upper house, which by an unhappy coincidence came the day after the
phalanx of ministers formed before the cameras outside No 10 to discuss the
transport crisis was found to include My Lords Mandelson, Adonis and West. With
11 days still to go, there is no way of guessing who is going to win on 6 May,
but it can be safely predicted that Mr Brown is going to lose it.

***

Curiously enough, the pleasure I got out of watching Oil City Confidential,
Julien Temple's wonderful film about the Seventies rhythm and blues combo Dr
Feelgood, on BBC4 stemmed less from its musical interludes than from the
metaphorical torch-beam directed on a certain kind of East Anglian culture. The
Feelgoods (Wilko Johnson, John B Sparks, the late Lee Brilleaux and an enigmatic
drummer known as "The Big Figure"), were memorably described by the New Musical
Express as "the kind of characters you find in a pub you walk into by mistake
and then walk straight out of again". They hailed from that most recherche
redoubt of the East of England boondocks, Canvey Island, on this evidence a kind
of retirement home for East End gangsters.

But Canvey's isolated, end-of-the-line atmosphere is reflected elsewhere in a
county where London overspill and rural sequestration, doubtful modernity and
cultural atavism, endlessly combine - a 21st-century equivalent, perhaps, of the
medieval "debatable lands" of the Scottish border. I wasn't in the least
surprised, for example, to find out from the East End novelist Arthur Morrison's
Cunning Murrell (1900) that Essex was one of the last redoubts of witchcraft.
Even the library at Saffron Walden in the leafiest part of the area, far away
from the relocating pearly kings, is full of true-crime confessionals by people
with names like Nosher Stribbs. No doubt about it, Boudicca, racing over the
fields near what is now Colchester to confront the Roman hordes, was the
original Essex Girl. Jowl by jowl, black hides gleaming beneath the pale East
Anglian moonlight, the "Essex Dogs", to borrow the title of a memorable poem by
local lad Damon Albarn, roam effortlessly on.

***

The most cheering symbol of this week's politicking was undoubtedly the egg
thrown at David Cameron as he went canvassing in Saltash, Cornwall. Tyler Dixon,
the 16-year-old trainee bricklayer who threw it, though apprehended by the
police, was later released without charge. The egg itself is reported to have
bounced off Mr Cameron's shoulder and spattered a policeman with goo. Mr Cameron
is thought to have laughed off the incident with the comment that he didn't know
which came first, the chicken or the egg - a reference to the Daily Mirror's
stunt of hiring a man dressed in a chicken's costume to follow him around the
campaign trail.

All at once, a faint scent of the Victorian hustings was blown tantalisingly
into the air - an era in which potential MPs, addressing their electors, could
expect to be pelted with a variety of missiles ranging from half-bricks to
rotten vegetables hoarded over the preceding weeks and dead cats. There is a
terrific moment in Trollope's The Prime Minister in which, such is the level of
partisanship in the Silverbridge by-election, that one candidate stalks the
other with a horsewhip: even at the staider end of the Victorian age, defeated
candidates were routinely thrown into duck-ponds. While nobody wants an
(allegedly) democratic contest to descend into a free-for-all, my sympathies are
with the egg-thrower, Mr Dixon, for daring to make the kind of protest which, by
and large, the ballot box denies him.

The old tribes vanish

After Poujade

Opportunism knocks

Essex Dogs

An oeuf is an oeuf

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday

BLACK DOG

LENGTH: 468 words


POLITICAL NIBS

EAT YOUR WORDS, MYSTIC GEORGE

Who said this less than two years ago? OEClegg is irrelevant, known only for
saying he had slept with 3no more than 30  women. If the Lib Dems hoped he would
revive them they were wrong... how many of Clegg!s 63 MPs will survive? No more
than 30.! Step forward Tory clairvoyant clot George Bridges, David Cameron!s
Election chief and fellow Old Etonian. Explains everything.

THE CUTIES KEEP THEIR FINGERS CROSSED FOR ZAC

CLEGGMANIA could unseat two Tory heart-throbs K causing panic among the army of
Cameron Cuties due to flood the Commons. Culture spokesman Jeremy Hunt and
millionaire eco warrior Zac Goldsmith, left, are among the Conservative
candidates most likely to fall victim to a Lib Dem surge. OEThey!re the only two
good-looking Tories who aren!t gay,! sighed a prominent blonde Cutie.

PERHAPS David Cameron would have been better off listening to Tory heavyweights
Ken Clarke and David Davis. Shortly after Clegg took over the Lib Dems, the
stalwarts told the Conservative leader: OEDon!t underestimate Clegg. He is
impressive and will be a threat if you don!t watch out.! Dave shrugged
nonchalantly.

SINCE splitting from scandal-hit husband David Mills, Tessa Jowell has had
little time for romance. But she swooned when David Beckham helped her celebrate
London winning the 2012 Olympics. OEAll I could feel was that David Beckham had
his arms around me,! she said. OEI thought I!d died and gone to Heaven.!

FOXY!S ALL-NIGHT SITTING

STRANGE things happen in the night to Liam Fox, who slept through a burglary at
his London flat while wife Jesme was in Hong Kong. But he stayed wide awake when
he once bumped into some students in Paris. They were astonished when night owl
Foxy took them back to his hotel room to drink champagne and watch DVDs until
6am.

NICK CLEGG!S loathing of Gordon Brown stems from a meeting on expenses when the
PM delivered one of his trademark rants at the Lib Dem leader. Things got off to
a bad start when Clegg arrived at the meeting with others, to be greeted by an
attendant who asked: OEWhich one of you lot is Mr Clog?!

GORDON BROWN!S aides didn!t know whether to laugh or cry at his
uncharacteristically wise-cracking, succinct performance in the latest televised
debate. OEI have spent 15 years trying to stop him boring people to death, and
he finally gets the hang of how to be short and snappy five minutes before he
loses power for ever,! said one. OEI give up.!

VOTERS in the reedy new seat of Broadland in Norfolk will get a rare sighting
tomorrow of one of its oddest birds, UKIP candidate Stuart Agnew. He has been in
hiding since claims that he secretly discussed how supporters could keep large
donations secret. Twelve-bores at the ready when the Lesser Spotted Agnew
appears at a country-themed question time in Aylsham!

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             April 25, 2010 Sunday

THE ZAPPER

BYLINE: BY MILES GOSLETT

LENGTH: 526 words


WHAT THEY'RE REALLY SAYING WHEN THE CREDITS START TO ROLL

Have I Got News For You team captains Ian Hislop and Paul Merton had a
sympathetic word with UKIP!s Nigel Farage after his latest appearance on the
BBC1 programme. At issue was a scripted sequence, told by host Lee Mack, about
Adolf Hitler having one testicle. Hislop and Merton recognised the OEgag! as a
veiled reference to a recent Sunday Times article ridiculing Farage for having
one testicle. (The politico suffered testicular cancer in 1987.) A show source
says: OEIan and Paul had a drink with Nigel after the recording and told him,
3There are some things which just aren!t funny.  ! They aren!t the only ones who
took a dim view. Complaints were made to the BBC about the innuendo. Oddly, the
Press office tried to deny this when I first asked about it.

As part of his new 66 million ITV deal, Adrian Chiles, pictured, will present a
factual entertainment programme. The channel is thought to be interested in
resurrecting The Ten Show, a topical panel show of which Chiles recorded a pilot
last November at the Riverside Studios in Hammersmith, West London. At the time,
a spokesman for production company Avalon said Chiles and guests would provide
their OEunique! opinions on the latest news and political stories. One wag has
suggested it!ll be called Loose Men. What has Chiles let himself in for?

Who!d have thought Tina Fey, star of 30 Rock, would be so touchy about her
stature? A New York source tells me that Emma Brockes of The Guardian
interviewed the actress to help plug the latest series, which has just begun on
Comedy Central. But all hell broke loose after she asked Fey how tall she is. An
argument involving Fey!s PR representative ensued and Brockes was told to remove
all references to height from her article. For the record, Fey is apparently 5ft
4in.

Andrew Sachs, who appears in Sky1!s Terry Pratchett drama Going Postal next
month, tells me he is hard at work on his autobiography. OEIt!s not my style to
be vindictive K the book won!t be warts !*! all,! says the ex-Fawlty Towers
star, 80. OEThere!s been a lot said on the Ross/Brand subject already and I
don!t want to reveal any anger I might feel through the book.! Noble indeed, but
won!t his publishers expect something from the heart?

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg is asked in the latest Radio Times if he
prefers John Humphrys (66), Jeremy Paxman (59) or Andrew Marr (50). His
response: OEAndrew Marr.! This was the obvious answer since Clegg is likely to
be quizzed by Marr many more times after Humphrys and Paxman have retired, and
he!ll want to stay in his good books.

Was it prescient of Sophie Dahl, pictured, to dedicate an instalment of her new
BBC2 cookery series to OEmelancholy!? She said depressed people could buck
themselves up with a bowl of soup or by reading the poetry of Dorothy Parker.
The word is Dahl may end up eating rather a lot of soup herself shortly. Her
show, which ends on Tuesday, has lost 700,000 viewers during its run and nobody
is sure if it!s been recomissioned. Plus, at 32, she!s thought to want to start
a family soon. Will there be a second series of The Delicious Miss Dahl?

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 465 words


MONDAY

nextleft: Isn't it strange that Cameron invites *everybody* to join his gvt, yet
insists won't work unless majority gvt = power to decide his *alone*"

ToryBearRT: GB should be dropped from the TV debates - they should really only
be for the leaders of the two big parties.

TUESDAY

johnprescott: Just come back from Labour Cypriot rally in north London with
Pauline. She got louder applause than me!

SarahBrown10: sleep tonight dreaming

of Minis (all different shades) having

seen so many roll off the line at Cowley today

richquick: UKIP flyer. "Say NO to immigration". Doesn't work as well if your
"about me" starts with "I was born in South Africa"!!!

WEDNESDAY

cathynewman: Ken Clarke confirms he worked with Nick Clegg's dad. Says Clegg jnr
is a tory who lost his way.

christopherhope: Heckle to Cameron of the day from a LDem supporter: "yeah, you
and your Ashdown money"

andrewrawnsley: Confirmation that Nick Clegg's father=a Tory. So was Blair's.
More a help than a handicap in winning votes

C4election: Cameron: Even journalists are working harder. They're not just
writing, they're blogging & tweeting. if they can do more with less so can we

THURSDAY

channel4news: Brown goes from Stalin to Mr Bean, now Clegg goes from Churchill
to a Nazi. Step forward, Mr Cameron.

DMiliband:Labour will continue to be a relentless champion for LGBT rights

jimpurnell:The Tory press in full smear mode really is a disgusting sight.

Paulwaugh: mask-wearing Tory arrested after attacking John Prescott in East End.

EricPickles: @johnprescott Glad you are ok hope no one hurt - I have asked for a
Party investigation - physical force is unacceptable in politics

robinbogg: POLL LATEST: Pots 33%, Kettles 33%, Blacks 33% (1% error margin)
#bbcqt #leadersdebate

stephenfry:Frankly I'm tempted to vote Lib Dem now. If we let the Telegraph and
Mail win, well, freedom and Britain die.

FRIDAY

DenisMacShane: Cameron floored by man in partnership for 13 years who says
divorcee remarriage tax unfair. No answer

mrchrisaddison: No wonder the BNP love St. George - he never set foot in the
country. He's their ideal foreigner.

WilliamJHague: In Harrogate, Lib Dems are under pressure whatever the polls say.
And there is a big 'To Let' sign on their offices!

jordannewell: "Frankly I dont trust you as far as I can throw you": Harman to
Tory candidate in Ipswich. Well done Harriet!

SATURDAY

davidschneider: Tories saying Labour trying to frighten people?! They're the
ones banging on about Osborne as Chancellor

johnprescott: I'm off campaigning for a LABOUR government NOT a hung one. We can
still win this, with your help

votejimmurphy: Tory campaigns with dalek. got in their tardis when media turn
up.

bengoldacre: Just when you thought the libdems couldnt get any better, Menzies
Campbell defends South Park on #anyquestions.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

As the volcanic ash clouds part, could that be real political change in the air?

BYLINE: David Mitchell

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW AGENDA; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1045 words


D

avid Cameron's career is cursed by fate. With his privileged background,
excellent education and meteoric rise, he may find it hard to believe but he'll
be sensing something unpleasant by now. He may misattribute it and waste months
taking allergy tests or eating bacterial yoghurts to reinvigorate his gut.
There's no point changing your diet, David. What you're feeling is the hand of
history - yanking your scrotum.

Such agony is familiar to the millions throughout the millennia who've found
themselves in the wrong place at the wrong time: rural weavers on the eve of the
industrial revolution, devout polytheists on the accession of the Emperor
Constantine, Incas in the early 16th century, homeopaths in about six months'
time (if there's any justice), most Russians at pretty much any point (there
isn't).

This is the only explanation for Cameron's startling lack of success in the
current election campaign. That may seem an odd remark to make about a man whose
party is ahead in most opinion polls but, given how British politics has worked
for most of the last 100 years, that's much worse than he should be doing.

The current government has undergone a horrendous series of crises: sudden and
massive financial meltdown just as the man who was associated with the country's
finances became prime minister; an expenses scandal discrediting the whole House
of Commons at a time when most of its members were Labour; the war in
Afghanistan becoming ever bloodier and more intractable; and finally the mass
grounding of aircraft caused by an act of God that must have finally convinced
Gordon Brown that there isn't one.

This last was an emergency which no governing party could have negotiated
unscathed - either there are no plane crashes, so the ash was harmless and
you've overreacted, or there are more than no plane crashes which, to the
non-statistically-minded as well as those on board, always seems too many.
These, then, were choppy waters indeed (like the stream beside the abattoir
after the wrong sluice was opened) and Brown hasn't been much better at
metaphorical canoeing than I imagine he would be at actual canoeing.

But I grudgingly admit that Cameron's failure to capitalise on this situation
cannot be attributed to his deficiencies as a party leader. He may have refused
to make more than the bare minimum of policy commitments; his rhetoric of
change, optimism and social responsibility may have been as empty as Ann
Widdecombe's little black book;

and the fact that his core team is just a bunch of university mates with a
towering sense of entitlement may have been ludicrously ill-concealed; but,
historically, none of these shortcomings would have stood in the way of his
confidently assuming power under circumstances such

as these.

"You're sick of the government, aren't you? So vote for me!" is how British
opposition leaders have always addressed the electorate. It's usually enough.
"Why commit to policies in advance when I can win just by not being Gordon
Brown?" Cameron must have thought. It doesn't exactly make him a statesman but
doesn't mean he's an idiot either. He analysed his strategic objective and, in
time-honoured fashion, organised a perfectly competent cavalry charge. It had
always worked in the past. And then history opened up on him with a machine-gun.

It feels like something may be changing, and this could be real change rather
than the mere alternative that Cameron offers. The apathy and disillusionment of
the electorate may be turning into something more constructive than moaning
about politicians being the same, not bothering to vote or telling ourselves
that Ukip isn't racist. Instead people are beginning seriously to question the
two-party system. That's why Cameron's strategy, to everyone's surprise, isn't
working.

The public's reasoning may have gone like this: "The Tories represent change, in
that electing them would result in a change of government. But somehow I'm not
sure they'd be a better government, just a different one. And, in fact, there's
something eerily familiar about them. Big business seems to back them. Does that
mean they're nice? Hmm.

"Oh, it doesn't make any difference who you vote for, does it? They all use the
same platitudes. I wish they could all lose. I suppose that means I want a hung
parliament? People seem to think that could happen. And everyone says Nick Clegg
won the first leadership debate. I only saw a bit of it myself, but I'm quite
glad - he was the underdog. Maybe I'll vote for him? That might give the LibDems
a bit more influence if there's a hung parliament. Also, it might keep the
Labour/Tory [delete as applicable] candidate out in my constituency.

"Actually, wait a minute! I feel quite good about Nick Clegg now! Nick Clegg and
a hung parliament! And the LibDems want proportional representation which would
mean there'd always be a hung parliament. Would that matter? It seems
interesting."

I hope people have been thinking along those lines because I believe that that's
the sort of typically British, ponderous and cynical reasoning that could bring
about proper reform. Historically, we don't change things out of ideological
zeal - we change them when enough is enough. We're sick of a system where all a
party leader needs to do to win power is convince us that he's not as bad as his
rival. In a proportionally representative hung parliament, politicians may have
to win arguments, talk about all their policies, not just scaremonger about the
taxes or cuts that they claim their opponents are planning.

I'm speaking too soon but all this makes me optimistic. The savage and
irresponsible response from the Tories and the right-wing press to Clegg's
popularity boost reinforces my belief that something might be happening.
Otherwise the Tory papers wouldn't be using words like "Nazi" and even more
damaging ones like "donations". And senior Conservatives wouldn't imply that a
hung parliament would usher in a sort of governmental apocalypse.

The truth is, for them, it might. No party has done better under the old system
than the Conservatives - they've enjoyed decades in office. But a hung
parliament resulting in electoral reform could mean they never form a majority
government again. They're feeling the hand of history where it hurts.


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW TV AND RADIO; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 289 words


6.00 Breakfast 55484515 9.15 Hospital Heroes 8714428 10.00 Homes Under the
Hammer 57312 11.00 To Buy or Not to Buy (R) 8454 11.30 Cash in the Attic 3706312
12.15 Bargain Hunt (R) 2501138 1.00 News 48664 1.30 Regional News 74719954 1.45
Doctors 841732 2.15 Escape to the Country (R) 7575393 3.00 News; Regional News
5697190 3.05 CBeebies: Grandpa in My Pocket (R) 2552190 3.15 Gigglebiz (R)
2572954 3.30 CBBC: Leon (R) 4380935 3.35 Jakers! (R) 1625935 3.55 Shaun the
Sheep (R) 4398954 4.05 Dani's House (R) 3815664 4.35 Hollywood Here Comes Joel:
Blue Peter Special 3446436 5.00 Newsround 6667645 5.15 Weakest Link 7069157

6.00 News (T) 683

6.30 Regional News (T) 496190

6.55 Party Election Broadcast (T) (R) By the UK Independence Party. 480799

7.00 The One Show (T) Magazine show. 1645

7.30 DIY SOS (T) New series. Nick Knowles and the team renovate a kitchen in
Watford. 119

8.00 Waterloo Road (T) When her birthmark is revealed to the whole school,
Lauren (Darcy Isa, above) takes drastic

action to get rid of it. 9995

9.00 Crimewatch (T) Appeals for information on crimes including the robbers who
subjected a Cumbrian woman and her child to a brutal ordeal and a 16-year-old
murder case that took place in Holyhead. 9139

10.00 News (T) 18848

10.30 Regional News (T) 245935

10.45 Party Election Broadcast (T) By the Labour Party. 500374

10.50 The National Lottery

Draws (T) 521867

11.00 Crimewatch Update (T)

Update. 785138

11.10 Damages (T) Patty and Tom desperately try to get in touch with Carol
Tobin. 451119

11.50   Rounders (John Dahl, 1998) (T) Drama starring

Matt Damon. 211799

1.45 Sign Zone: Priceless Antiques Roadshow (T) (R) 78542

2.15 Antiques Roadshow (R) 735959 3.15 Watchdog (R) 998813 4.15 Great British
Menu (R) 21146 4.45 News 73320


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW TV AND RADIO; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 299 words


6.00 Milkshake! (R) Programmes for children 8.35 Ben and Holly's Little Kingdom
8184916 8.45 Ebb and Flo (R) 6043732 8.50 Castle Farm (R) 6068041 8.55 The
WotWots (R) 8197480 9.05 Bert and Ernie's Great Adventures (R) 1791799 9.15 The
Wright Stuff 5932916 10.45 Trisha Goddard (R) 7495515 11.45 CSI: Crime Scene
Investigation (R) 4874312 12.40 News 34161461 12.45 Brighton Beach Patrol (R)
3428645 1.45 Neighbours 7352157 2.15 Home and Away 8741596 2.50 The Family
Recipe (R) 9396886 2.55 I Own Britain's Best Home: Flying Visit (R) 7988799 3.05
Nightscream (1997) 26157190 5.00 News 8079409 5.30 Neighbours (R) 4982428

6.00 Home and Away (T) (R) Justin makes a shocking confession after being
tormented by nightmares. 1121111

6.25 Live from Studio Five (T) Magazine show. 6518138

7.25 Party Election Broadcast (T) By the Labour Party. 3105041

7.30 Heads or Tails (T) (R) With Justin Lee Collins. 9553931

7.55 Party Election Broadcast (T) UK Independence Party. 3623225

8.00 Lucie Blackman Murder: Crimes That Shook the World (T) The case of Joji
Obara, who came to the attention of Tokyo police investigating the disappearance
of Lucie Blackman (above) in 2000 and was discovered to have been

a serial rapist. 5210664

9.00 NCIS (T) Tony's old murder investigations is reopened, prompting him to
switch roles with Gibbs and lead the team in an investigation that links the
case to an embezzlement scheme. 5230428

10.00 CSI: NY (T) (R) Mac and the team are sent to investigate the case of two
people killed

at an oil company. 2590645

10.55 Numb3rs (T) Don's gun is stolen and used to commit a series of murders.
9679461

11.50 Poker (T) 6014515

12.50 SuperCasino 41583639 4.05 House Doctor (R) 19721436 & 78749417 4.55 County
Secrets (R) 29420349 5.10 Neighbours (R) 25830368 5.35 Home and Away (R)
72902788


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW TV AND RADIO; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 291 words


6.00 GMTV 3181041 9.25 The Jeremy Kyle Show 3616472 10.30 This Morning. Harry
Potter star Warwick Davis (Professor Filius Flitwick) talks to Phillip Schofield
and Holly Willoughby about his autobiography. 40616 12.30 Loose Women 61867 1.30
News and Weather 88499799 1.55 Regional News; Weather 36171119 2.00 60 Minute
Makeover. John Amabile and a team of designers head to Oldham in Greater
Manchester to transform the home of a full-time carer, focusing on her bedroom,
living room and grandchildren's room. 10995 3.00 Daily Cooks Challenge 3765

4.00 Dickinson's Real Deal (R) 9022

5.00 Divided. Quiz show. 8312

6.00 Regional News (T) 502190

6.25 Party Election Broadcast (T) By the Labour Party. 411409

6.30 ITV News and Weather (T) 913

7.00 Emmerdale (T) After being discharged from hospital, Aaron ignores Chas.
9041

7.30 Live UEFA Champions League (T) Barcelona v Inter Milan (Kick-off 7.45pm).
All the action from the semi-final second-leg encounter at the Nou Camp, where
the holders entertain Jose Mourinho's Italian champions, who are 3-1 up after
last week's game at the San Siro. See picks of the day, above. 960119

10.00 News and Weather (T) 73436

10.30 Regional News (T) 530515

10.32 Party Election Broadcast

(T) By the UK Independence Party. 530515

10.35 UEFA Champions League: Extra Time (T) Highlights of the semi-final
second-leg encounters featuring Barcelona v Inter Milan and Lyon v Bayern
Munich. 6889664

11.40 Cops with Cameras (T) (R)

Two Devon and Cornwall officers are involved in a dramatic car chase, and
Greater Manchester's Tactical Aid Squad raids the house of a suspected drug
dealer. 824041

12.35 Traffic (T) (R) 9692707

2.00 Loose Women (R) 8045829 2.50 The Jeremy

Kyle Show (R) 3885610

3.45 Nightscreen 469784

5.30 Morning News 75788


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

National: Election 2010: Comment: THE TORY INSIDER: Ukip are fielding 557
candidates. Not one will win, but they could give us a problem

BYLINE: Jonathan Isaby, Co-Editor of ConservativeHome.com

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 593 words


Do not underestimate the frustration that Conservative candidates feel about
having a Ukip opponent. The anti-EU party has already gained a solid foothold in
British politics through the proportional voting system used at the European
elections. Last year, it secured 13 European Parliament seats.

I don't for a moment expect Ukip to come anywhere near winning a Westminster
seat on 6 May. But it remains a hindrance which the Tories could do without -
and it is up to Conservative candidates to show Ukip supporters the potentially
disastrous consequences of voting for them.

Tory hopefuls will be making it clear to those thinking of voting Ukip under the
first-past-the-post system that doing so will deliver the very opposite of what
they want - more Euro-federalists rather than fewer. Both Labour and the Liberal
Democrats broke their 2005 manifesto pledges for a referendum on the Lisbon
treaty and have happily voted to cede more powers to Brussels.

The Conservatives, on the other hand, are fighting this election with a clear
policy of not only seeking repatriation of certain powers and making any future
transfer of power always subject to a referendum - but also pledging to pass a
sovereignty bill, making it clear authority remains at Westminster.

Sure, the Tories are not promising withdrawal from Europe. But the direction of
travel is clear.

The fact is that for putative Ukip voters there is a straight choice: do they
want five more years of Gordon Brown, or a new Conservative government taking
the country in a fresh direction?

Anyone wanting that direction to be away from European integration has no option
but to vote Conservative. Backing Ukip risks returning Labour or Lib Dem MPs
with proven enthusiasm for the European project. It is all the more frustrating
that Ukip has muddied the waters more than ever, putting up 557 candidates
across the country.

But where they are not standing is of as much interest. They are leaving just 44
constituencies in England uncontested.

When Ukip leader Lord Pearson launched his party's manifesto, he announced that
his candidates would stand down and support a handful of Conservative and Labour
candidates who would "defy their whips" and "really fight for our freedom".

This formal offer came to pass for four Tory MPs seeking re-election - Douglas
Carswell (Clacton), Philip Davies (Shipley), Philip Hollobone (Kettering) and
Richard Shepherd (Aldridge-Brownhills) - and three Conservative candidates in
key marginals: Mark Reckless (Rochester and Strood), Janice Small (Batley and
Spen) and Alex Story (Wakefield).

Ukip failed to nominate in just three other English battleground seats:
Dewsbury, Nuneaton and Corby.

Strangely, the one Labour MP who Pearson said would be unopposed by Ukip, David
Drew in Stroud, does still have a Ukip candidate against him.

And the apparent chaos doesn't end there. The party failed to nominate a
candidate against the shadow chancellor, George Osborne, in Tatton, and is
sitting out the election in Richmond, the seat of William Hague, the shadow
foreign secretary, who would lead future negotiations with Europe.

Meanwhile, all but a handful of other Conservative MPs are facing a Ukip
challenge, not least policy supremo Oliver Letwin in Dorset West.

Which brings me back to my original point: would a Ukip sympathiser not prefer a
proven (if not rabid) eurosceptic like Letwin representing them over a member of
the Liberal Democrats, the most integrationist party of the lot?

Captions:

Ukip's ex-leader Nigel Farage campaigns. Photograph by Peter Macdiarmid/Getty


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

BELGIUM: A PM departs, but it's the capital that could tear the nation apart

SECTION: OBSERVER THE WEEK PAGES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 355 words


British prime ministers - or so the story goes - give their Belgian counterparts
less time than others at EU summits because they know that within a year or two
they'll be dealing with someone new. Belgium's federal government falls with
such regularity that the resignation last week of prime minister Yves Leterme
was hardly noticed around the world. Or in Belgium for that matter: for the man
in the street, the only noticeable consequence was the cancellation of the
scheduled parliament vote on the banning of the burqa.

But amid the ceaseless tension between the Flemish-speakers of the north and
French-speakers of the south, there are signs that Belgium, a "non-country" in
the words of Ukip leader Nigel Farage, is becoming difficult to fix.

The fault line runs through Brussels, the capital of both Belgium and Flanders.
Officially it's a bilingual city, though in reality it has become largely
French-speaking: a process accelerated by immigration from north Africa and the
ever-expanding EU quarter (EU officials must speak French, but are under no
obligation to learn Flemish).

The Flemish-speakers, increasingly alienated, have retreated to the Brussels
suburbs, where they have drawn a line in the sand named Brussel-Halle-Vilvoorde
(BHV, pictured). This electoral district, where French- and Flemish-speakers
live cheek-by-jowl, has brought down government after federal government.
Flemish parties want electoral reform that would give their politicians greater
power. French-speaking parties are refusing to budge unless a "corridor" is
created, linking Brussels with French-speaking Wallonia. This is the nub of the
problem: French-speaking Brussels is an island, surrounded by Flemish-speakers.
If the country splits, what will become of Brussels?

The artificial calm imposed by all sides while the federal government tackled
the financial crisis has now been broken. The country's political leaders are
this weekend "consulting" with the King. Albert II still has power to forge
governments, though this power too is under attack in the north. The separation
of the country is one step closer.

Justin Stares, Brussels


LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 25, 2010

7 Days: International: Essential stories from around the world: 2. BELGIUM: A PM
departs, but it's the capital that could tear the nation apart

BYLINE: Justin Stares in Brussels

SECTION: OBSERVER THE WEEK PAGES; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 351 words


British prime ministers - or so the story goes - give their Belgian counterparts
less time than others at EU summits because they know that within a year or two
they'll be dealing with someone new. Belgium's federal government falls with
such regularity that the resignation last week of prime minister Yves Leterme
was hardly noticed around the world - or in Belgium for that matter. For the man
in the street, the only noticeable consequence was the cancellation of the
scheduled parliament vote on the banning of the burqa.

But amid the ceaseless tension between the Flemish-speakers of the north and
French-speakers of the south, there are signs that Belgium, a "non-country" in
the words of Ukip leader Nigel Farage, is becoming difficult to fix.

The fault line runs through Brussels, the capital of both Belgium and Flanders.
Officially it's a bilingual city, though in reality it has become largely
French-speaking, a process accelerated by immigration from north Africa and the
ever-expanding EU quarter (EU officials must speak French, but are under no
obligation to learn Flemish).

The Flemish speakers, increasingly alienated, have retreated to the Brussels
suburbs, where they have drawn a line in the sand named Brussel-Halle-Vilvoorde
(BHV, pictured). This electoral district, where French and Flemish speakers live
cheek by jowl, has brought down government after federal government. Flemish
parties want electoral reform that would give their politicians greater power.
French-speaking parties are refusing to budge unless a "corridor" is created,
linking Brussels with French-speaking Wallonia. This is the nub of the problem:
French-speaking Brussels is an island, surrounded by Flemish speakers. If the
country splits, what will become of Brussels?

The artificial calm imposed by all sides while the federal government tackled
the financial crisis has now been broken. The country's political leaders are
this weekend "consulting" with the King. Albert II still has power to forge
governments, though this power too is under attack in the north. The separation
of the country is one step closer.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 25, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ELECTION 2010

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3,4,5,6,7,8

LENGTH: 337 words


SEE PAGE 8 FOR ANSWERS

Take our light-hearted election quiz to find out how much you remember of week
three of the campaign...

1. Which Cabinet minister tweeted sarcastically about the Transport Secretary, a
life peer: 'Andrew Adonis has done a brilliant job on ash. Give that man a
peerage!'

2. Which will be the last constituency in the country to declare its result?

3. Which party's manifesto pledged laws to stop superheroes using their powers
for evil and banning terrorists from having beards?

4. Unilever issued an injunction to stop the BNP from using which of its
products in a party political broadcast?

5. The Conservatives had to cancel a press conference after which shadow
minister had his house burgled while he slept upstairs?

6. What was Boris Johnson (right) celebrating when he praised England for giving
gravity, corkscrews and custard to the world?

7. Tory council candidate Martin Coxall was arrested for trying to confront
which Labour politician?

8. While visiting a college near Plymouth, David Cameron was struck by

(a) an egg

(b) a rotten tomato

(c) a top hat?

9. Councillors in which constituency apologised to 1,000 voters after directing
them to a polling station that does not exist?

10. 'Cleggy reminds me of a cute puppy. Everyone thinks about taking him home
but few can afford the mess'. Was the twitterer

(a) Sarah Brown

(b) Joanne Cash

(c) Esther Rantzen

11. Which British actress was a contemporary of Nick Clegg's at Wesminster
School?

12. 'You know what a shrinking violet I am,' said which veteran spinner,
explaining his absence from Thursday's TV debate.

13. Which of the party leaders shook his head 67 times during the debate?

14. Which former Dr Who appeared in a Labour election broadcast?

QUIZ ANSWERS

1 David Miliband 2 Thirsk and Malton - the vote has been postponed to May 27
because the Ukip candidate died. 3 Monster Raving Loony Party 4 Marmite 5 Liam
Fox 6 St George's Day 7 John Prescott 8 (a) 9 Brixham, Devon 10 (b) 11 Helena
Bonham Carter 12 Peter Mandelson 13 Gordon Brown 14 Peter Davison

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 25, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip campaign for a hung parliament

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 292 words


THE UK Independence Party has claimed there will be "blood on the carpet" for
the Conservatives and has admitted it is campaigning for a hung parliament.

In an interview with The Sunday Telegraph, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the Ukip
leader, said his party wanted to ensure David Cameron did not win an overall
majority so that the Conservative leader would be forced to listen to Ukip
demands for a referendum on whether Britain stayed in the European Union.

The peer said if Mr Cameron had not ditched his promise of a referendum on the
EU treaty, Ukip would have been campaigning for the Tories.

As it is, they are fielding candidates in more than 500 constituencies, hoping
to split the vote in marginals where the Tories can ill afford to lose support.

"Unfortunately, I don't want it, but there will be blood on the carpet," Lord
Pearson said. He had wanted his party to stand aside in at least 15 seats to
give eurosceptic Tories a clear run, but activists would not go along with the
plan.

Instead, Lord Pearson, a former Tory who defected to Ukip in 2007, has adopted
the unusual tactic of urging voters in seven constituencies not to vote for
their Ukip candidates, but instead to back a eurosceptic from one of the main
parties - six Tories and one sitting Labour MP.

"If Ukip can do well enough, say a couple of million votes, then we will be in a
position to show David Cameron and the failed old parties that they can't form a
government unless they give the British people the referendum: in or out of the
EU," Lord Pearson said.

Mr Cameron has now promised to introduce a Bill to ensure that no further powers
can be transferred to Brussels without a referendum. Lord Pearson said that was
"useless" because the important powers had been transferred.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 25, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UK needs a vote for independence;
Your letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 67

LENGTH: 114 words


I AGREE with Alan Smith's letter (Your letters, April 18) that we should end
overseas aid while we are struggling. But do readers know we also contribute to
the EU's overseas aid budget from the billions of pounds Brussels continually
takes from British taxpayers? Voting Labour, Conservative or Lib Dem at the
election will not put a stop to this reckless waste of taxpayers' money because
all three haven't the guts to say no to Brussels.

If the three main parties won't take us out of the EU then we must do it for
ourselves by voting for UKIP, the Socialist Labour Party, the BNP or the English
Democrats, all of whom want the return of UK independence.

Roger Arnold, Herne Bay, Kent

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 25, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UKIP: We'll stand up for Britain

BYLINE: Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 443 words


BRITAIN is being offered a "change of management" by the three main parties, not
a genuine change of Government, UKIP has warned.

Former party leader Nigel Farage hit out at the Labour, Tory and Lib Dem leaders
for ignoring the EU's creeping control of every aspect of British life in their
live TV debates.

Mr Farage also slammed the decision to exclude the UK Independence Party. "We
didn't expect to be on all three programmes," he said, "but last Thursday's
debate was about foreign affairs and the EU and we should have been included.

"Here is a fundamental question for the people of Britain and, the last time
they were asked the question, at the European elections last June, we came
second, beating Labour and the Liberal Democrats.

"So we don't feel that our exclusion from Thursday night's debate was fair. We
should have been there.

"It has become an irrelevance who wins the election because we're regulated from
somewhere else. My biggest feeling of all is that we're voting for a change of
management, not a change of government."

Mr Farage, who is standing against the Commons Speaker John Bercow in
Buckingham, said UKIP is the only party offering the British people a chance to
elect their own government instead of rule from Brussels "I have an increasing
loathing of the political class of this country. I think they are almost
indistinguishable from each other," he said.

"They've forgotten any basic concept of what democracy should be about. They're
not prepared to stand up for the country or the British people and put them
first."

With the polls predicting a hung parliament, Mr Farage said UKIP would work with
any party which would commit to hold a referendum on the EU. He said: "We think
a Cameron majority might be the worst outcome because of his insistence that in
his first five years there will not be a reopening of the European issue.

"Within five years, the EU foreign office will be established with embassies
across the world, the common immigration policy will have been completed and the
other ambition of the Commission is a common EU criminal code. So my worry is
that at the end of that period we will be left with almost nothing."

Mr Bercow has an 18,000 majority in Buckingham and, as Speaker, faces no
challenge from Labour or the Lib Dems. Yet Mr Farage is confident that he can
oust the Speaker on May 6. He said. "On the face of it this looks like the
safest seat in the country, but UKIP scored 20 per cent in last year's European
elections.

"There are large numbers of people who are very angry at Mr Bercow. My message
is that if you vote for me and topple the Speaker, you will send an earthquake
through Westminster."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONFIDENT: Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 25, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE TOP POLITICAL DONORS

SECTION: RICH LIST 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 322 words


Donations made by individuals or their companies in 2009 Page number in brackets

1 Jonathan and David Rowland £2,003,550 Conservative (25)

2 Stanley Fink (below) £1,595,965 Conservative (63)

3 Nigel Doughty £1,260,201 Labour (57)

4 Lord David Sainsbury £1,050,000 Labour (22)

5 Sir Anthony Bamford £946,987 Conservative (22)

6 Michael Spencer £704,233 Conservative (53)

7 Lord John and Sir Timothy Sainsbury £503,748 Conservative (22)

8 Sir Ronnie Cohen £500,000 Labour (64)

9 Lord Ashcroft £479,772 Conservative (20)

10 Bob Edmiston £416,776 Conservative (37)

11 Sir Michael Bishop £335,000 Conservative (45)

12 Lord Harris £302,700 Conservative (46)

13 Lord Alliance £300,000 Liberal Democrats (41)

14 Andrew Cook £253,380 Conservative (66)

15 Michael Hintze £222,000 Conservative (38)

16 Peter Cruddas £200,000 Conservative (23)

17 Paul Ruddock £176,000 Conservative (41)

18 David Ord £170,290 Conservative (66)

19 Crispin Odey £158,964 Conservative Christian/Libertas (39)

20 Neil Record £158,000 Conservative (69)

21 Jeremy Hosking £135,000 Conservative (48)

22 Zac and Ben Goldsmith £132,149 Conservative/Green (38)

23 Carole Nash £130,000 Conservative (73)

24 William Ives £126,500 Conservative (39)

25 Dave Whelan £125,000 Conservative (46)

26 Tom Scott £108,270 Conservative (49)

27 Tony Wilkinson £107,000 Liberal Democrats (42)

28= Peter and Denise Coates £100,000 Labour (31)

28= Poju Zabludowicz £100,000 Conservative (19)

30 Hans and Marit Rausing £95,000 Conservative (17)

31 Charles Cayzer £90,000 Conservative (32)

32 George Robinson £83,000 Conservative (44)

33 John Whittaker £81,409 United Kingdom Independence Party (21)

34 Richard Caring £80,000 Conservative (28)

35 Michael Slade £77,647 Conservative (71)

36 David Harding £77,600 Conservative (33)

37 The McAlpine Family £77,500 Conservative (44)

38 Vivian Imerman £75,000 Conservative (34)

39 Edward Atkin £73,000 Conservative (42)

40 Peter Wood £71,300 Conservative (59)

Source: Electoral Commission

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 25, 2010
                              Correction Appended
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Mittal sits on top of the pile;
RICH LIST 2010 THE TOP 100

SECTION: RICH LIST 2010;FEATURES; Pg. 14,73

LENGTH: 59576 words


1 £22,450m £11.65bn, 108%

Lakshmi Mittal and family Steel

Mittal reckons that the steel business has rebounded from the worst of the
decline in 2008 and early 2009, and is recovering. He ought to know, being the
boss of the world's biggest steelmaker, ArcelorMittal. With a strong market
share in most of the world's regions, it should be well placed for a profit
boost next year. But Londonbased Mittal, 59, still cannot find a way to expand
his influence in China, which now accounts for nearly half of global steel
output and consumption. ArcelorMittal has minority stakes in two Chinese
steelmakers but as long as Beijing blocks foreign takeovers in this industry,
the conglomerate's role will remain limited. Steel's recovery in the

markets over the past year has been mirrored by the rising share price of
ArcelorMittal - the family's stake is worth £18.45 billion, to which we add £4
billion of other assets. Mittal, who has expanded his business by acquiring
ailing, formerly state-owned mills around the world and turning them round,
knows all there is to know about steel. His father, Mohan, built up a steel
operation in Calcutta. Mittal moved to Indonesia in 1976 and set up his own
steel plant, which he separated from the family's businesses in 1995. Going it
alone, he moved to London, a city he loves, although he retains his Indian
passport. His son, Aditya, 34, inset top, is chief financial officer and
daughter Vanisha, 29, inset, is a director. His enthusiasm for London will soon
be on public display - ArcelorMittal is funding up to £16m of the £19.1m cost of
a landmark sculpture to be installed in the new Olympic Park in time for the
2012 Games. Called the ArcelorMittal Orbit, it will consist of a looping lattice
of tubular steel with a viewing platform and will be taller than New York City's
Statue of Liberty. The artist who has designed it is Anish Kapoor - like Mittal,
an Indian-born but now very British success story (see panel on page 75).

2009: £10,800m, 1

4 £5,950m £950m

Ernesto and Kirsty Bertarelli Pharmaceuticals

Even before the opening race of the 2010 America's Cup in Valencia, Ernesto
Bertarelli, 44, owner of the Swiss Alinghi team, was locked in a legal battle
with American tycoon and challenger Larry Ellison in the New York State Supreme
Court over their respective yachts. The most contentious America's Cup in its
159-year history was won in February by Ellison's USA-17, after Bertarelli won
in 2003 and 2007. He makes it into this list with his wife, Kirsty, a former
Miss UK whom we rate as Britain's wealthiest woman (see page 78). Bertarelli is
an anglophile who prefers to drink beer in a London pub with his wife than quaff
champagne. His childhood was spent being groomed for business - at the age of
six, he was handing out employee-of-the-year gifts at his father's Serono
pharmaceutical firm. By 31, after his father's death, he was running the
Geneva-based multinational group, which was sold to Merck of Germany in 2006 for
$13.3 billion. Bilan magazine estimated the Bertarelli fortune at £5.95 billion
in its December 2009 Swiss rich list. The couple give generously to charity
through the Fondation Bertarelli.

2009: £5,000m, 4

5 £5,532m £3.032bn

David and Simon Reuben Property and internet

See panel on page 16

6 £4,700m £3.2bn

Alisher Usmanov Steel and mines

Metalloinvest, Russia's biggest iron ore miner, has revived plans for a London
stock market listing that could value it at £12 billion. The company is
half-owned by Usmanov, 56, who also has about 26% of Arsenal FC. His stake in
the Gunners is worth £149m. The son of a former state prosecutor in Tashkent,
Usmanov was born in Soviet Uzbekistan, although he is now a Russian citizen. He
became rich through steel manufacture and iron ore mines. Apart from
Metalloinvest, Usmanov's recent investments in media, telecoms and banking
suggest a fierce loyalty to Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin. He has a
£48m mansion in north London as well as Sutton Place, the Surrey Tudor manor
formerly owned by the late US oil billionaire J Paul Getty. In its 2010 list of
world billionaires, Forbes put Usmanov's fortune at £4.7 billion.

2009: £1,500, 18=

Mr Chelsea stays ahead of his rivals

2 £7,400m £400m, 6%

Roman Abramovich Oil and industry

What do you give a Russian oligarch who has everything? A £400m revival in his
fortunes? The world's biggest superyacht? A Caribbean island estate? A new son?
All of the above? Aside from the odd scandal involving his players, Abramovich
was enjoying a good year until Chelsea blew their chance of winning the
Champions League. Even oligarchs have to watch the figures, especially with the
threat of a $2 billion (£1.3 billion) lawsuit from former business partner Boris
Berezovsky (qv). Divorce in 2007 from Irina, his wife of 16 years, cost
Abramovich £155m. He spent a reported £724m on his yacht, Eclipse, which has two
helipads, two swimming pools, a mini submarine and an antipaparazzi shield, said
to destroy photographers' shots with a laser beam. The master suite has a
retractable roof in case Abramovich, 43, and 28-year-old Daria Zhukova, right,
an oligarch's daughter, want to sleep under the stars. Parking can be a problem
- time to buy a £55m, 70-acre estate on a Caribbean island, St Barthélemy.
Abramovich's start in life was less auspicious. Orphaned at four, he was raised
by an uncle on the edge of the Arctic Circle. He moved to Moscow at 14, did army
service and started trading in dolls, later graduating to tyres, pig farms and
bodyguard recruitment. His big moment came when he moved into oil. With
Berezovsky, he bought Sibneft in 1995 for about £120m. When Berezovsky went into
exile, he sold out to Abramovich, who picked up much of the £7.5 billion paid
when Gazprom, the Russian gas monopoly, bought Sibneft in 2005.

Berezovsky alleges he was coerced into selling cheaply, and the High Court in
London has ruled that his lawsuit, which Abramovich disputes, can go ahead. Huge
dividends from Sibneft and sales of stakes in his other operations have added £2
billion to Abramovich's wealth. He and his partners hold stakes in the Russian
steel group Evraz and mining group Highland Gold to the tune of £1,014m. Both
companies were hit by the stock market turmoil of 2008-09 but have recovered,
allowing us to value him at £7.4 billion.

2009: £7,000m, 2

3 £6,750m £250m, 4%

The Duke of Westminster Property

Grosvenor Group, the property giant controlled by the Duke of Westminster, has
recovered its appetite for development. In December, it offered more than the
£100m asking price for a two-acre site in Kensington that has planning consent
for 72 luxury flats. Back in April last year, it put a freeze on developments
after posting its 2008 figures, the worst for 16 years. The group, which owns
swathes of Mayfair, Belgravia and Knightsbridge, as well as the Liverpool One
shopping centre, has seen its performance improve in 2009 with losses down
sharply from £594m to £236m. Grosvenor has also built up a war chest of nearly
£1 billion to return to global property markets such as Shanghai and other
Chinese cities. Chief executive Mark Preston says: "We've weathered the downturn
well." He had previously pointed out that the group had been around for more
than 300 years and experienced 20 recessions and more than 250 wars worldwide
during that time. He reckoned the impact of the downturn had been cushioned by
Grosvenor's "well-diversified portfolio, low gearing and steps taken since 2007
to curb acquisitions and reduce our development exposure". The group is now
working on only three big projects: the residential element of Liverpool One and
sites in Australia and Canada. Grosvenor Group's shares are all owned by various
trusts set up for the benefit of the Grosvenor family, headed by the 6th Duke,
58, who is chairman of the trustees. He chaired the company until 2007. The net
asset value of Grosvenor fell in 2008 by 7.4% to £2.8 billion but the top end of
the London housing market appears to be in recovery mode now. Adding private
estates outside the group into the equation raises our overall valuation of the
duke to £6.75 billion this year.

2009: £6,500m, 3

Didn't we do well?

5 £5,532m £3.032bn, 121%

David and Simon Reuben Property and internet

The jewel in the crown of the Reuben brothers' business empire is Global Switch,
which runs datacentres across the world - supporting blue-chip companies such as
BP, Shell, IBM and Microsoft. Bankers are beating a path to their door since
Global Switch could be listed this year., valued at more than £2.7 billion. The
sons of an Iraqi Jewish textile merchant, David, 71, is known as the trader and
Simon, 68, the investor. David loves technology and gadgets, while Simon admits:
"I can't read a computer screen and never use a calculator. It's all in my head
and by hand." David started in the 1960s in scrap metals while Simon was buying
and selling carpets and investing in property. They worked together trading
metals, which led eventually to them making about £1.3 billion in Russia's
aluminium market in the 1990s. Their holdings range from high-end property such
as Millbank Tower in London to more than a third of the country's racecourses,
including Uttoxeter, Bath and Chepstow through Northern Racing and Arena
Leisure, plus shopping centres and London Oxford airport.

Since 2002 they have supported the Reuben Foundation Children's Cancer Centre at
Great Ormond Street hospital as well as the Nancy Reuben primary school in north
London, which is named after their mother. Simon and his wife, Joyce, pictured
left, divide their time between London and Monaco while David, inset, who is
married to Debra, lives in London and the south of France. The brothers have
been able to extract hefty profits from investments sold before the crash. Their
two main companies, Aldersgate Investments, the parent of Global Switch, and
Reuben Brothers, are valued at more than £5.5 billion. Additional assets take
them to £5.532 billion.

2009: £2,500m, 9=

7 £4,500m £3.6bn

Galen and George Weston and family Retailing

Galen Weston, 69, oversees the huge George Weston operation in Canada, spanning
the Loblaw supermarket chain and Weston Foods. But he was born in Marlow,
Buckinghamshire, in 1940 when his Canadian father, Garfield, was MP for
Macclesfield. Galen grew up in England, the United States and Canada. The family
had an estate at Henley-on-Thames, where they entertained the British upper
crust, including members of the royal family. Galen's wife, Hilary, 68, was born
in Ireland (see panel on page 85). We add his wealth to that of the British
branch of the Weston clan, led by his nephew George Weston, 46, above, but
deduct £500m for duplication and crossshareholdings. The British wealth is
concentrated in the food and bread producer Associated British Foods (ABF),
though there are other choice assets such as Primark, Selfridges and Fortnum &
Mason. These retail interests and the Irish stores chain Brown Thomas are held
by Wittington Investments, which made £482m profit on £9.3 billion sales in
2009. ABF alone, quoted on the London stock market, is worth £7 billion. But
more than 79% of Wittington Investments, chaired by Galen's nephew Guy, 49, is
held by the Garfield Weston Foundation and as a charity we exclude it. The
family's British assets and £100m of dividends in recent years are worth £1
billionplus. Galen Weston has a 62.5% stake, worth £3.68 billion, in the
Canadian George Weston operation. He also owns the Canadian fashion retailer
Holt Renfrew, with $ 100m in sales. 2009: £900m, 47

8 £4,400m £1.44bn

Charlene and Michel de Carvalho Inheritance, brewing and banking

Dutch brewer Heineken took over Femsa, Mexico's biggest beverage company, in
January, giving it a presence in the booming Central and South American markets.
The $ 5 billion deal reinforces the position of London-and Switzerland-based
Charlene de Carvalho, only child of the late Freddy Heineken, as Britain's
"queen of brewing". Charlene, 55, and her banker husband, Michel, 65, have a
minority stake in Heineken but control the brewer through its complex voting
structure.

2009: £2,960m, 7

9 £4,105m £275m

Sir Philip and Lady Green Retailing

Green's Arcadia retail empire absorbed his Bhs chain in 2009, creating a group
with more than 3,100 stores. He is linking up with X Factor supremo Simon Cowell
(qv) on a global entertainment operation. While he sees the retail climate as
still challenging, Arcadia, which owns Dorothy Perkins, Evans, Wallis, Miss
Selfridge and Burton, is firing on all cylinders. Its biggest name, Topshop, is
due to open a store in Knightsbridge, opposite Harrods, next month. In the year
to August 2009, profits rose 13% to £213m. That does not include Bhs, where
operating profits fell 40% to £30.2m. We value Bhs and Arcadia at £2.9 billion,
and the stakes owned by the family, led by Green, 58, and wife, Tina, 60, at
£2.68 billion. We add £1.425 billion for homes, yachts, dividends and property
deals. Green recently paid £100,000 for an Alexander McQueen dress in aid of
humanitarian relief in Haiti.

2009: £3,830m, 6

10 £4,100m £3.5bn

Anil Agarwal Mining

The share price of mining group Vedanta Resources has soared to more than
£27.50. London-based Agarwal, Vedanta's founder and chairman, has seen his stake
recover rapidly to £4.48 billion. He left school at 15 to work as a scrap metal
trader in his native India and made his fortune when the Indian government
privatised its mining assets. In 2003, Vedanta floated on the London stock
market in a blaze of publicity. Agarwal, 57, is worth £4.1 billion after lopping
off a $ 1 billion donation to construct a university in India for 100,000
students modelled on Harvard, Oxford and Stanford, pledged by him in 2006. We
take into account his other assets, including a £20m home in Mayfair.

2009: £600m, 70=

11 £4,000m

Hans Rausing and family Packaging

Rausing, who moved to Britain from Sweden in the early 1980s, gave more than £4m
to a Swedish institute to fund a research project on breast cancer this year.
One of the key developers of Tetra Pak (later Tetra Laval), the packaging empire
founded by his father, Rausing, 84, has donated at least £146m to good causes.
He sold his 50% stake in Tetra Laval to his late brother Gad for about £4.4
billion in 1995. He has invested in new products such as Ecolean, an
environmentally friendly packaging material made from chalk. He also has stakes
in a Swedish crystal firm and a Ukrainian ketchup manufacturer. We keep the
family at £4 billion.

2009: £4,000m, 5

12 £3,825m New entry

Joseph Lau Property

The Chinese property tycoon recently bought a £33m house in London's exclusive
Eaton Square. Lau, 58, made his money as one of Hong Kong's corporate raiders
and owns 61% of Chinese Estates Holdings, based in the former colony. He owns
one of the world's finest wine collections, with at least 10,000 bottles, and is
an avid art collector. In 2006 he paid a record £9m for Andy Warhol's portrait
of Mao Tse-tung and last year he spent nearly £6m on a flawless blue diamond.
Lau''s fortune was put at £3,825m by Forbes in its 2010 list of world
billionaires.

13 £3,500m £1bn

Kirsten and Jorn Rausing Inheritance and investment

Sales at Tetra Laval, the packaging group based in Switzerland, rose 5% in 2008
to about £10 billion. The firm has moved into green projects, such as a facility
in China run entirely on renewable electricity. This is good news for Kirsten
and Jorn Rausing, whose father, the late Gad Rausing, helped to develop the
Swedish Tetra Pak operation, which became Tetra Laval. Jorn, 50, who lives in
Surrey, heads Tetra Laval's mergers and acquisitions division. He has a 15%
stake in the online retailer Ocado. His sister Kirsten, 57, is also on the board
of Tetra Laval, which is worth £7 billion. We ascribe half to the
brother-andsister team.

2009: £2,500m, 9=

14 £3,160m £2.616bn

Vladimir Kim Mining

Soaring metal and commodities prices have boosted Kazakhmys, Kazakhstan's
largest copper producer. Its shares leapt in 2009 from 261.5p in 2009 to more
than £15 by early 2010. The company's chairman, Moscow-educated Kim, effected a
huge turnround in the business, which at the collapse of the Soviet Union was $
200m in debt and not paying wages. It floated in London in 2005 and has its
headquarters in Westminster. Kim, 49, has a stake worth £3.16 billion.

2009: £544m, 81=

15 £3,000m New entry

Leonard Blavatnik Industry

Blavatnik saw the US arm of his Dutch-based LyondellBasell chemicals operation
forced to file for Chapter 11 bankruptcy early last year. Its debts had reached
$ 19.4 billion. The 52-year-old tycoon, based in New York and London, where he
has a £41m home in Kensington, has stakes in lucrative Russian oil operations
and other investments in the aluminium and chemical industries. In its November
2009 list of the 400 richest people in America, Forbes magazine put the
Russian-born engineer's fortune at £3 billion.

16 £2,750m £250m

John Fredriksen Shipping

The shipping empire built by Fredriksen has helped make him Norway's richest
man. He reaped huge rewards from the transport of oil during the 1980-88
IranIraq war and has a £491m stake in Frontline, said to be the world's largest
tanker business. It has also provided Fredriksen, 65, with about £500m in
dividends since 2003. Other interests include a £275m stake in the travel and
shipping group Tui, a £230m slice of the gas tanker business Golar LNG, and
Marine Harvest, the seafood producer he took over in a £1 billion deal. As well
as his main home in London, there are properties in Cyprus, Oslo and Marbella.

2009: £2,500m, 9=

17 £2,700m £200m

Joe Lewis Foreign exchange and investment

London-born Lewis has a £292m stake in the quoted pub group Mitchells & Butlers.
He made much of his fortune from betting against sterling in the 1990s.
Tavistock Group, his main investment vehicle, has interests in property and a
£71m stake in Premier League club Tottenham Hotspur. It also has Russian oil and
gas interests. His property holdings include 3,600 acres in the Bahamas, where
he is based. He lost nearly £500m when the Wall Street bank Bear Stearns failed
in 2008, but continued huge foreign-exchange profits and recovering asset prices
take 73-year-old Lewis £200m higher this year.

2009: £2,500m, 9=

Music mogul calls tune

25 £1,640m New entry

Edgar Bronfman and family Inheritance and music

Music boss Bronfman recently moved from New York to London's Kensington with his
second wife, Clarissa, above, and their four children, saying that he wanted the
kids to experience life abroad for one or two years. He is chairman and chief
executive of the Warner Music Group after part-funding a private equity buyout
in 2004. It's all going tickety-boo at Warner, where he has delivered a 140%
return for the company's original investors, and in London he is well placed to
snap up beleaguered EMI. The former songwriter (who has written for Celine Dion
and Dionne Warwick)

is due a bit of corporate good luck. Bronfman, 54, who tops our list of music
millionaires on page 42, is the grandson of Russian immigrant Sam Bronfman, who
started with a liquor store in Montreal in 1916, ran whiskey across the
Canadian-US border during prohibition and built the Seagram drinks empire.

He made his family one of the wealthiest in Canada. Sam's son, Edgar Bronfman
Sr, took over the American operations and in 1994, his son Edgar Jr (known to
his friends as Efer)

became chief executive. Efer's attempts to turn the drinks business into an
entertainment force to be reckoned with didn't go well. In 1995, he sold a
valuable stake in the chemical giant DuPont, from which Seagram earned 75% of
its profits, and invested the proceeds in music and entertainment businesses.
Five years later, Seagram merged with Vivendi in return for $ 30 billion of
stock in what was supposed to be a global entertainment conglomerate, but
Vivendi sold the Seagram drinks side for £5.6 billion and nearly collapsed under
debts it took on from an acquisition spree. The deal was described as "one of
the worst mergers in history". It''s just as well the family could afford to
lose a few billion. The Bronfman fortune was put at £1,640m by Forbes in its
2010 list of world billionaires.

18 £2,600m £1.4bn

Sir Richard Branson Transport, internet and mobile phones

The Necker Nymph, Branson's first submarine, will be hired out to visitors to
his Caribbean holiday hideaway. SpaceShipTwo, unveiled last December, will carry
passengers on Virgin Galactic. So from the depths of the sea to the edge of
space and beyond, the Virgin boss, 59, has it covered. The state investment fund
of Abu Dhabi paid $280m for a 32% stake in Virgin Galactic in July.

Branson's empire now embraces Virgin Money, trains, airlines, the internet,
music, wine, health clubs and holidays. Branson's Virgin foundations donated
more than £12m to charities in the past year, earning him a place among the top
100 on our Giving List. In 2007, the Financial Times stated that Virgin was
worth about £2.5 billion. The figure fell sharply during the credit crunch but
has now roared back to £2.6 billion.

2009: £1,200m, 32=

19 £2,300m £300m

Earl Cadogan and family Property

The 8th earl, 73, has said that his 93 plush acres in Chelsea have the
"fundamental resilience" to see out the property crisis. Cadogan Group's 2008
results show a fall in net asset values from £2.6 billion to £2.1 billion. There
was, though, a 31% rise in profits to £40.4m. We value the business on its net
asset figure and add £200m for dividends, investments and personal property.

2009: £2,000m, 14

20 £2,074m £274m

Alan Parker Duty-free shopping

For 25 years, Parker added to his stake in Duty Free Shoppers, the Hong
Kong-based chain he helped to run. His patience paid off when his holding, then
20%, earned him more than £460m in the 1997 takeover by the luxury goods group
LVMH. Parker, 71, born in Britain and based in Geneva, used some of the proceeds
to establish the Oak Foundation, which funds humanitarian and conservation
projects. Taking account of other assets and charitable donations, we agree with
the £2,074m figure put on Parker's fortune by Bilan magazine in its 2009 Swiss
rich list.

2009: £1,800m, 15

21 £1,900m £400m

Eddie and Sol Zakay Property

Sol Zakay, 57, has quit Britain for Israel since the introduction of a 50% tax
rate on high earners and will now concentrate on finding global opportunities
for Topland Group, the London-based property development operation that he runs
with his brother Eddie, 59, pictured. Eddie is to remain in the UK, steering the
business here. Topland has £1.2 billion in the bank and swung from a £29m loss
to a £5.3m profit in the year to May 2009. The Zakays made much of their fortune
in a series of deals with chains such as Marks & Spencer and Tesco.

2009: £1,500m, 18=

22 £1,800m £800m

Sir David and Sir Frederick Barclay Property and media

The 75-year-old twins are investing in a vineyard on the island of Sark with the
hope of producing a vintage worthy of the wine list at their Ritz hotel in
London. In January their Home Delivery Network bought the UK parcels division of
DHL, creating a key rival to Royal Mail. The once low-key Barclays have become
more prominent since their £665m purchase of the Telegraph Media Group in 2004.
Their main operations are in media, hotels, property and retailing, and we can
see assets of more than £2 billion in their four main companies, led by Ellerman
Investments, which had £728m net assets in 2008. We value the brothers at
£1,800m.

2009: £1,000m, 40=

23 £1,778m New entry

Jean Claude Gandur Industry

Gandur came into a fortune last summer when the state-owned Chinese group
Sinopec bought his oil company, Addax, for £4.5 billion. His 38% stake was worth
£1.68 billion. Gandur, a Swiss citizen who spends much of his time in London,
formed Addax in 1994. Last month he gave more than £12m to expand Geneva's art
and history museum. Assets such as a large collection of antiquities and a stake
in a gold business take the 61-year-old to £1,778m.

24 £1,670m £395m

Bruno Schroder and family Finance

The blue-chip fund management group Schroders saw quarterly profits come in 30%
higher than analysts' forecasts last autumn. Schroder, 77, a non-executive
director, and his relatives have a stake worth £1,400m and made about £320m from
the sale of the investment banking operation in 2000. Dividends, property and
the 16,500-acre Islay estate in Scotland, where Schroder breeds pigs, take the
family to £1,670m after tax.

2009: £1,275m, 31

25 £1,640m New entry

Edgar Bronfman and family Inheritance and music

See profile on page 17

26 £1,600m £100m

Mark Pears and family Property

Britain's new Home and Savings Bank is being backed to the tune of £50m by
brothers Mark, Trevor and David Pears, whose Hampstead-based property empire
includes thousands of London homes and office blocks. Mark, 47, is managing
director of the family's main company, William Pears Family Holdings, and there
are at least 23 separate businesses that showed £835m net assets in 2008-09.
Some of the wealth goes into the Pears Foundation, which supports causes such as
the Duke of Edinburgh's Award and Jewish-Arab co-operation.

2009: £1,500m, 18= 27=

£1,550m £1.11bn

Richard Elman and family Commodities

See panel opposite

27= £1,550m

Roddie Fleming and family Finance

Fleming put 700 acres of Oxfordshire farmland on the market at £4m last year.
"My banks are fully supportive but it's better to have zero debt at the moment,"
the 56-year-old banker explained. He is a significant shareholder of Fleming
Family & Partners, established in 2000 after the sale of the Robert Fleming
merchant bank. The family received cash and shares worth £1.8 billion for the
bank from Chase Manhattan. In 2005 it received £45m from Standard Chartered for
a 20% stake in Fleming Family & Partners, which provides advice on everything
from hedge funds to divorce settlements. With other assets, the family fortune
totals £1,550m.

2009: £1,550m, 17

27= £1,550m £150m

Ian and Richard Livingstone Property

The Livingstone brothers received £472m in dividends in 2007 and 2008 from their
Loopsign holding company. Ian, 47, and Richard, 45, formed London & Regional
property group in the 1990s. They now own 60 hotels worldwide, more than half of
Cape Town's V&A Waterfront shopping development and a string of health clubs.
Loopsign had net assets worth £1.37 billion in 2008. We value it at £1.2
billion, adding £350m for other assets.

2009: £1,400m, 25=

30 £1,540m £70m

Sir Ken Morrison and family Supermarkets Morrison, 78, is enjoying a well-earned
rest after 56 years in the supermarket business, having bowed out as chairman of
the Wm Morrison group in 2008. Britain's fourth biggest supermarket chain
delivered a 31% surge in profits, up to £858m, on sales up 6% to £15.4 billion,
in 2009-10. Bradford-based Wm Morrison is valued at more than £7.8 billion and
the Morrison family stake is worth £1,405m, to which we add past dividends and
share sales.

2009: £1,610m, 16

31= £1,500m

Mahdi al-Tajir Metals, oil and water

The bottled water supplier Highland Spring agreed the biggest deal in its
30-year history in November, buying the bottled water division of an Irish group
for £17.5m. Highland Spring was on course to make £3.5m profit on £54m sales in
2009. The Perthshire firm is owned by al-Tajir, 78, a former United Arab
Emirates ambassador to the UK who heads our Scottish wealth table on page 82. He
spends much of his time at his palatial London home or on his 18,000-acre
Perthshire estate. His business interests include metal trading, oil and gas,
and property.

2009: £1,500m, 18=

31= £1,500m

Nicky Oppenheimer Diamonds and mining

The diamond industry is suffering and no group has felt the pain more deeply
than De Beers, chaired by Oppenheimer, 64. Its profits fell 99% to £1.8m in the
first half of 2009 but Anglo American, the mining giant founded in South Africa
in 1917 by Oppenheimer's grandfather Ernest, is in better shape. Its shares
nearly trebled in value in 2009 and the group is worth more than £36 billion. In
2006, Oppenheimer sold a third of his family's interest in Anglo American for
£250m and his remaining stake is worth £930m. He divides his time between South
Africa and his estate near Maidenhead.

2009: £1,500m, 18=

31= £1,500m

Poju Zabludowicz Property and hotels

Property magnate Zabludowicz, 57, gave two donations totalling £100,000 to the
Conservative party in July last year. He holds a Finnish passport but has lived
and worked in London for most of his life. His father, Shlomo, a Holocaust
survivor, built the family business around Soltam, an Israeli defence contractor
that was a key supplier to the Israeli military. Most of those defence interests
have now been offloaded, with the family diversifying into Las Vegas property
and hotels. We keep him at last year's figure of £1.5 billion. His
Newcastle-born wife, Anita, is a renowned contemporary art collector whose works
are displayed in a London gallery.

2009: £1,500m, 18=

34 £1,460m New entry

Antonio Luiz Seabra Cosmetics

The Brazilian tycoon started the Natura cosmetics company in 1969 with a single
shop in Sao Paulo. He later adopted the door-to-door sales model pioneered by
Avon, and today there are more than 500,000 home sales consultants across Latin
America. Seabra, the 67-year-old co-chairman, is based in London. The Forbes
list of 2010 world billionaires puts his wealth at £1,460m.

The knack of all trades

27= £1,550m £1.11bn, 252%

Richard Elman and family Commodities

At any one time there are more than 100 ships plying the high seas in the name
of the Noble Group, the commodities trading giant run by Elman from Hong Kong.
For more than two decades Brighton-born Elman, 69, who dropped out of school at
15 to work in a scrap metal yard, has built Noble into a colossus that not only
finds but produces, transports, sells and trades anything from grain to coal and
iron ore, employing 11,000 people on six continents. Swiftly rising from his
starter job in England, the young Elman ran a yard in San Francisco where he
made contact with Japanese steelmakers, the start of a Far Eastern odyssey that
took him to Tokyo and, finally, his home for the past four decades, Hong Kong.
There he ran Philipp Brothers (Phibro), selling metals and grains to China as it
opened up after the death of Mao Tse-tung. When the New York investment bank
Salomon Brothers took over Phibro, Elman struck out on his own in 1986. Since
his staff called him taipan (boss in Cantonese), Elman took his cue for naming
the venture from the author James Clavell, whose novel Taipan chronicled the
Noble House, a British merchant dynasty based on the Jardine family of merchant
venturers. It has served him well. "Running a business is very much like running
an orchestra," Elman, who is married with four children, told Forbes magazine
last year. "If the strings are not in tune, then the orchestra sounds terrible."
His business, quoted on the Singapore stock exchange, has been music to the ears
of investors. Last year it attracted Beijing's sovereign wealth fund, the China
Investment Corporation, in a deal that raked in £285m for Elman's family trusts,
part of which will fund a charitable foundation. Now executive chairman of the
group, Elman relaxes at ski resorts such as St Moritz or at his "paradise" home
overlooking the sea in Phuket, Thailand, complete with a "contemplation pond".
We value him at £1,550m with other assets and sale proceeds.2009: £440m, 120=

35= £1,400m

John Caudwell Mobile phones

Sir Elton John (qv) will top the bill at a concert next month to celebrate the
10th anniversary of Caudwell Children, the charity founded by the mobile phone
tycoon. Caudwell, 57, received about £1.24 billion for his 88% stake when
Caudwell Group was sold in 2006 and three years previously sold his Singlepoint
customer billing operation to Vodafone for £405m. The Staffordshire
entrepreneur's interests include a marine engineering firm, property and
leisure.

2009: £1,400m, 25=

35= £1,400m £330m

Baroness Howard de Walden and family Property

Welbeck Land, one of the family's companies, appointed a private bank last June
to raise £100m to take advantage of the depressed property market. In 2008-09,
Howard de Walden Estates, which controls 90 acres of central London, made a
near-£30m profit and its net asset figure increased to £1.248 billion. The
family - led by the 74-year-old baroness - has £1.25 billion of business assets
plus £150m in dividends and other property interests.

2009: £1,070m, 39

35= £1,400m £100m

The Swire family Transport, property and trade

The Hong Kong business empire John Swire & Sons recorded £3.8 billion sales in
2008, with profits of £306m. It was run for more than 40 years by brothers Sir
Adrian, 78, and Sir John Swire, 83, respectively honorary and life presidents.
The group, which has its headquarters in London, owns part of the Cathay Pacific
and Dragonair airlines, as well as manufacturing operations. We value the family
stake at £1,300m, adding £100m for dividends .

2009: £1,300m, 28=

38 £1,375m £91mt

Bernie Ecclestone Motor racing

The Formula One chief executive was interested in buying Saab early this year.,
but a bid did not materialise. Divorce from his wife Slavica (qv)

last year cost Ecclestone, 79, about a third of his fortune, amassed largely
from the sale of 75% of the F1 business for £1.9 billion in 2000. Other
interests include a stake in Queens Park Rangers, the Championship football club
a short drive from his home in Chelsea. As F1 has been suffering financial woes,
we cut Ecclestone this year.

2009: £1,466m, 24

39 £1,355m £485m

Simon Keswick and family Finance

Shares in Jardine Matheson recovered in 2009, raising the value of the Keswick
family's stake to £1.28 billion. The group, based in Hong Kong, has interests
from engineering to hotels and a valuable property portfolio. The family is led
by Simon, 67.

2009: £870m, 48

40 £1,320m New entry

Yusuf Hamied Pharmaceuticals

Affordable pharmaceuticals are big business in India, and Cipla is one of the
main manufacturers. The business was started by the father of Hamied, the
chairman, and today claims its drugs are taken by a third of Aids patients
treated in Africa. Hamied, who studied chemistry at Cambridge, opened a
recreation centre there, named after him, last year. He divides his time between
London and Mumbai. The 2010 Forbes list of world billionaires put his wealth at
£1,320m.

41= £1,300m

Clive Calder Music

The world has Calder to thank for Britney Spears, who has sold more than 83m
records via Zomba, the music company he started after leaving his native South
Africa. Calder, 63, a UK citizen based in the Cayman Islands, received £1.2
billion when he sold Zomba to BMG in 2002. Calder supports the Elma
Philanthropies charitable foundation, which promotes improved education and
health for African children.

2009: £1,300m, 28=

41= £1,300m £100m

Mikhail Gutseriyev Oil and finance

Gutseriyev, 50, a Russian tycoon now based in London, founded BIN Bank in Moscow
and then started Russneft, an oil company. In 2007, the Russian authorities
issued an arrest warrant for Gutseriyev, alleging tax evasion. Under pressure,
he sold his stake in Russneft to Oleg Deripaska, a Russian businessman, for
about $3 billion. But he has recently regained control of the company, according
to the Moscow press, and there are reports that he will return to Russia as the
authorities are believed to have dropped all charges against him.

2009: £1,200m, 32=

43= £1,250m £100m

Eddie and Malcolm Healey Property and kitchens

Eddie Healey, 72, may be the canniest property man in Yorkshire but his brother
Malcolm, 65, is the one taking a gamble now, returning to the kitchen trade with
retailer Wren Kitchens. Eddie made his fortune from property, turning a derelict
site outside Sheffield into the Meadowhall shopping centre with Paul Sykes (qv).
Its sale in 1999 netted Eddie £420m. With other assets, he is worth £650m.
Malcolm, who built up and sold Hygena Kitchens, is worth about £600m.

2009: £1,350m, 27

45= £1,200m

Nadhmi Auchi Finance

Auchi, 72, based in Surrey, is the founder and chairman of GMH Group, a
Luxembourg-based conglomerate with 120 firms worldwide, from luxury hotels to
telecom companies. GMH reports that its total assets are more than £2.13 billion
and we keep Auchi's valuation at last year's level.

2009: £1,200m, 32=

45= £1,200m £200m

Alki David and the Leventis family Industry

David, 41, is an actor and entrepreneur. His most recent film role was in The
Bank Job, a gangster thriller released in 2008. He owns 80% of Filmon. com, an
internet business with a market value of about £577m. David is a member of the
Greek Leventis family, whose interests include bottling plants for Coca-Cola in
28 countries and shipping firms.

2009: £1,000m, 40=

45= £1,200m

Laurence Graff Diamonds

Armed raiders stole gems worth £40m from Graff's New Bond Street store in London
last year. Britain's biggest jewel heist hit Graff, 71, hard. Several people are
awaiting trial. In 2008, profits at Graff Diamonds International fell from £59m
to £53m, though sales rose sharply to a record £371m. But turnover last year was
down 20%. Graff's clients include the Sultan of Brunei, the Beckhams (qv), Oprah
Winfrey and Donald Trump. There are 35 Graff outlets worldwide. Graff owns a
modern art collection valued at £125m.

2009: £1,200m, 32=

45= £1,200m

Lord Grantchester and the Moores family Retailing and football pools

Cheshire-based Grantchester, 59, is the grandson of Sir John Moores, founder of
Littlewoods football pools. The family sold some of its department stores and
its pools business in 2000; those proceeds and dividends are worth £445m. In
2002, the other stores and mail-order operation were sold for £750m. In all, the
Moores are worth £1,200m after charitable donations.

2009: £1,200m, 32=

49 £1,100m £450ms

Louis Bacon Finance

The 53-year-old is a hedge fund manager whose Moore Capital, based on Wall
Street, has more than £10 billion under management. Bacon, top of our hedge-fund
table on page 36, is based in London but has properties in the United States,
including a 435-acre island off New York and a 171,400-acre ranch in Colorado,
which he bought for $175m in 2007. Forbes magazine estimated his wealth at £987m
in its 2010 list but sources high in his company reckon this is well short of
the mark.

2009: £650m, 63=

50 £1,060m £240m

John Whittaker Property

Whittaker, 68, emerged as a shareholder last year in Forth Ports with a 3.2%
stake worth £16.2m. Earlier, he took a 5.85% stake, now worth £287m, in Land
Securities, Britain's largest commercial property group. He also owns a £58m
slice of UK Coal, Britain's biggest mining group . His main focus, however, is
the northwest, where he has huge land and infrastructure holdings around the
Manchester Ship Canal. He has a £660m share in his two main companies, Peel
Holdings (TCL) and Peel Holdings (Land and Property), and other wealth.

2009: £1,300m, 28=

52= £1,000m £50m

Viscount Portman and family Property

Portman's Burtley estate consists of 2,000 acres of farmland and woodland in
Buckinghamshire, which complements his 3,000-acre Herefordshire spread. His
principal property holding is 110 prime London acres that 51-year-old Portman
has been developing. The family's assets include 17,000 acres at Wagga Wagga in
New South Wales, a share of commercial properties in New York and in Palm Beach,
Florida, and a holiday home in Antigua.

2009: £950m, 44=

43= £1,250m £150m, 14%

Lord Ashcroft Business services

How can you save the whales, buy Victoria Cross medals for the nation, fight
crime by founding Crimestoppers, set up a school, pump £10m into Anglia Ruskin
University - where he has been chancellor since November 2001 - yet regularly
incur public wrath? Ashcroft, the Tory party supporter who became infamous for
his non-dom tax status, will draw comfort from the fortune he amassed from
cleaning and security. In the early 1970s, he borrowed £20,000 to buy a
struggling cleaning company and then built up the ADT cleaning and security
business, which was taken over in 1997 by the American Tyco group. Ashcroft took
his proceeds in Tyco shares but sold his stake in stages, making about £500m in
total. He stands to make another £100m from the £1.3 billion flotation of the
Priory, the exclusive drying-out clinic for the rich, famous and addicted.
Ashcroft invested £45.5m in the business in 2007, so he has more than doubled
his money in less than three years. He also has interests in Belize, held by the
Nasdaq-quoted BB Holdings, worth £36m. He banked another £132m after the sale of
OneSource Services, his US cleaning and repair business, where his original
investment was just £500,000. More typically, he makes a 30% return on his
private investments. We can see more than £70m of stakes in seven quoted
companies on the London stock market, including Watford Leisure, the trading
name for Watford football club, which was saved from administration this year.
His special relationship with the Conservative party has a £4m price tag hanging
off it. As deputy chairman of the party, with an interest in the Tories' target
seats, his confession last month that he has been a "non-dom" since becoming a
Tory peer, thereby paying no tax in the UK on his overseas earnings, plunged the
party into crisis. However, as someone who has pledged 80% of his fortune to
charity when he dies, saying that those who can help others have a "moral duty
to do so", and as a funder of campaigns against whale hunting, Ashcroft, 64,
must be wondering what it takes for him to be considered one of the nice guys.

2009: £1,100m, 37=

Matalan man is back in fashion

51 £1,020m £690m, 209%

John Hargreaves and family Discount fashion

The man who took discount clothing from the market stall to the shopping mall -
helping to make shell suits a must-have fashion item along the way - is still
enjoying the fruits of his style success .

Hargreaves, 66, has billionaire status again for the first time in eight years,
after the refinancing of Matalan, his "pile it high, sell it cheap" retail
chain. Shoppers hunting bargains over Christmas 2009 helped to push up sales by
13.7%. This was good news for Hargreaves, who had been conducting an auction of
the business among private equity players with a £1.5 billion asking price.
However, when the price appeared to be too high, he took the Skelmersdale-based
business off the market and earlier this month refinanced the company in a £525m
deal that saw him take a £250m dividend. Hargreaves was born less than half a
mile from the Liverpool docks, where his father worked as a labourer. He left
school at 14, getting a job on a market stall selling seconds from Marks &
Spencer. Within five years, he had started his own business, which grew into a
chain of fashion shops called Jaymax. An astute retailer, he went on to found
Matalan in 1985, modelled on US-style warehouse stores with low prices.

Matalan proved to be the retailing success story of the late 1990s. Now living
in Monaco, Hargreaves has not forgotten his roots. He is a generous benefactor
in the northwest, particularly to children's charities. He has given more than
£7m to the NSPCC, £6m of it for its Safe Place appeal. The money was used to
establish the Hargreaves Centre in Liverpool. He cut the turf on the site,
right, and is pictured with his daughter Maxine and granddaughter April at its
opening, above. In the light of Matalan's aborted auction, we value the firm at
£1.25 billion and Hargreaves's stake at £840m after borrowings. His dividend and
share sales take him and his family to £1,020m after tax.

2009: £330m, 156=

Canny trader hedges his bets

66= £875m £500m, 133%

Alan Howard Finance

His desk is no different from any other in the trading room of Brevan Howard,
Europe's biggest hedge fund, in Marylebone, central London. But Howard, 46, is
the star of the company he co-founded in 2002. He studied chemical engineering
before joining Salomon Brothers investment bank in the City. He was hired in
1997 by Credit Suisse's investment bank, where he shone, and five years later he
and four colleagues raised $870m and set up Brevan Howard, where traders wager
billions on the direction of interest rates, currencies and commodities. Howard,
second in our hedge fund table on page 36, is allergic to publicity. "We prefer
to have a low profile," he told Bloomberg News last year in the only
on-the-record interview he has granted. He also has an aversion to risk, whether
it be in the markets or from London's traffic. "I see these nutty drivers. I
have no interest in getting excited or upset," he said of his preference to be
chauffeured. Brevan Howard outshines its rivals thanks to Howard's caution and a
low threshold for underperforming traders. "When you hire people, you need to
give them time to see how well they work out," he told Bloomberg. "Sometimes we
have to make changes." The company holds assets under management of £20 billion.
Howard's lawyer rubbishes an American survey of hedge fund salaries that put his
client's salary at more than £400m. We value Brevan Howard at £2 billion, with
Howard's stake at about £700m. Last year, he gave more than £6.7m to his
charitable foundation in support of Jewish and educational causes.

2009: £375m, 139=

52= £1,000m

Wafic Said Finance

Syrian-born Said, 70, headed a consortium that bought an office block at
London's Canary Wharf for £208m five months ago. Said has an English wife and a
£30m Oxfordshire mansion. In 1998, he gave £20m towards the Said Business School
at Oxford University, and has pledged £15m towards an extension. His wife
Rosemary has donated £250,000 to the Tories and allied causes. With investments
worldwide, plus homes in Mayfair, Paris, Marbella and Monaco, Said is worth £1
billion .

2009: £1,000m, 40=

54 £977m £507m

Michael Moritz Internet

Sequoia Capital, Moritz's firm in California, made $1.35 billion from the sale
of two businesses last year. The venture capitalist, raised in Cardiff and top
of our Welsh list on page 83, was one of Google's early backers, putting up £8m
of Sequoia's money in 1999. The stake rose in value to £6.3 billion at its peak,
and we assume he has a significant element of that plus a portion of the 2009
sales. Forbes put Moritz, 56, at £1,002m in its 2010 list of the richest
Americans. We knock off £25m for his support of his Oxford alma mater, Christ
Church.

2009: £470m, 12=

55 £975m £375m

Sir Terry Matthews Computers

See panel opposite

56 £962m £215m

Sir Ian Wood and family Oil services and fishing

The Aberdeen-based Wood Group had a good 2009, with its shares rising steadily.
Wood, 67, is its chairman and widely seen as the architect of the boom in the
Granite City. The company floated in 2002 with a £1 billion valuation. The
family has a stake worth £568m and other assets. Since the Wood Family Trust was
established in 2007, it has been endowed with £30m and helps young people in
Scotland and the Third World.

2009: £747m, 57

57= £950m

Sir Anthony Bamford and family Construction equipment

Job shedding continues at JCB, the construction equipment company based in
Staffordshire that is chaired by Bamford, 64. In January, plans to axe 75 office
jobs were announced, following hundreds of shop-floor losses in 2008 and 2009.
JCB's profits in 2008 fell by nearly 80% to £39m on sales down £500m at £2
billion. We value the business, founded by Bamford's late father, at about
£800m. The family's assets include a Staffordshire estate and homes in Barbados
and France.

2009: £950m, 4=

57= £950m £424m

Mark Coombs Finance

Ashmore, the City investment group, is doing what 50-year-old Coombs, the chief
executive, predicted during the stock market turmoil - taking advantage of
"opportunities to buy assets from distressed sellers". This helped take
Ashmore's value above £2 billion late last year, though it has fallen back to
about £1.6 billion. Coombs has a stake worth £802m. He sold £192m of shares at
the float in 2006 and has other assets.

2009: £526m, 84

57= £950m

Richard Desmond Media and property

Desmond, a former advertising salesman, bought the Express newspaper titles in
2000 for £125m. The daily and Sunday papers are worth a combined £400m today.
Desmond, 58, also owns OK! celebrity magazine, the Express building in London,
worth £100m, and a substantial private property portfolio. Figures for his main
company, RCD1, show profits falling in 2008 from £55.4m to £41.6m, on sales down
slightly at £483.9m. We keep him at £950m .

2009: £950m, 44=

57= £950m £200m

Robert Miller Duty-free shopping and finance

Hong Kong-based hedge fund Sail Advisors, founded by Miller, 76, has $2.3
billion of funds under management. Miller was born and educated in America but
is a British citizen, with a home in London and a Yorkshire shooting estate. He
made a fortune from co-founding the Duty Free Shoppers chain but much of his
wealth is tied up in the Search Investment Group, which runs Sail.

2009: £750m, 52=

61= £920m £360m

Sir James Dyson and family Household appliances

Inventor Dyson, 62, is churning out new products, including a desk fan without
blades and a vacuum cleaner small enough to sit on a sheet of A4 paper.
Wiltshire-based Dyson commands a 46% share of British vacuum cleaner sales and
32% of the American market. In 2008, profits at the Dyson operation came in at
£85.3m on £628.3m sales and we value the business at £700m. Since 1999, Dyson
and his family have taken more than £278m in salaries and dividends. His
charitable foundation gave away at least £6m last year, including £5m to the
Royal College of Art.

2009: £560m, 76

61= £920m £150m

Bernard Lewis and family Fashion and property

Record £161m profits for River Island, the high-street fashion chain, helped to
ease the impact of falls elsewhere at the Lewis Trust Group in 2008. The retail
to property and hotels group, led by Lewis, 84, the chairman, saw profits fall
from £150m to £108m though sales rose from £888m to £966m. The Lewis family and
trusts own all the London-based business, which showed nearly £908m net assets
in 2008. We value it at £800m and add £120m for dividends and property assets.

2009: £770m, 51

63= £900m £300m

The Grant and Gordon family Spirits

Profits at William Grant & Sons, the distiller with brands such as Glenfiddich
whisky and Hendrick's Gin, rose 55% in 2008 to £129.2m on sales also up at
£598.3m. The firm, founded by William Grant in Banffshire in 1886, is controlled
by the fifth generation of his family. It also owns 30% of Highland Distillers.
Dividends and other assets add £100m to the £800m value of the business .

2009: £600m, 70=

63= £900m £200m

Lord Sainsbury and family Supermarkets

The J Sainsbury supermarket chain enjoyed a good Christmas last year, with sales
up 4.2% on 2008. Profits at the group were better than expected in the first
half of 2009-10, rising 19% to £307m. It is valued at more than £6 billion.
Sainsbury, 69, and his family own about 14% of the London operation. The
Sainsburys can justifiably lay claim to being the country's most philanthropic
family, with £275m spent or generated for charity in the past year. They have
given huge sums to support education, the arts and medical research.

2009: £1,100m, 37=

65 £890m £190m

Mike Ashley Sports goods

See panel on page 24

66= £875m £500m

Alan Howard

Finance See panel opposite

66= £875m New entry

Helene and Marianne Odfjell and family Shipping

Sisters Helene, 44, and Marianne, 39, run their Norwegian business interests
from London. They are daughters of shipping tycoon Abraham Odfjell and their
family fortune comes from a Bergenbased shipping and drilling empire that dates
back to 1915. See panel on page 79.

68 £850m £350m

Viscount Cowdray and the Pearson family Media

The John Cowdray arboretum was opened last November by Cowdray, 65, in memory of
his father. It is on the 16,500-acre Cowdray Park estate in West Sussex, bought
100 years previously to the day by the 4th viscount's great-grandfather for
£340,000. Cowdray also heads the Pearson family, which has a near 10% stake in
Pearson, the media group, worth £725m. We add £125m for other property, estates
and dividends .

2009: £500m, 88=

69 £832m £132m

Russell De Leon and Ruth Parasol Internet gambling

Party Gaming, the online poker group, is in merger talks with Bwin Interactive
Entertainment, an Austrian rival, in a deal that could create a £2 billion
internet gambling giant. The move comes after a $105m non-prosecution settlement
with the justice department in the United States, where Party Gaming's
operations were banned in 2006. Founders De Leon, 44, a Berkeley graduate and
lawyer, and his British wife Parasol, 43, also a lawyer, own 28.66% of the
Gibraltar operation, worth £331m. We add £501m for the proceeds of share sales
and additional assets.

2009: £700m, 60=

70 £826m £476m

Ayman Asfari and family Oil services

Asfari runs Petrofac, the oil services group he transformed into an
international business managing North Sea rigs and designing drilling and
refinery equipment. Syrian-born Asfari, 51, a British citizen, led the £742m
flotation of Petrofac in 2005. Its shares have soared and the London-based
company is worth £4.3 billion today. Earlier this month, Petrofac spun off its
North Sea assets into a separate business called EnQuest, which had a strong
debut on the stock market. After share sales and deductions for charity giving,
we put the family at £826m.

2009: £350m, 146=

71= £820m £276m

Sir Stelios Haji-Ioannou and family Airline

Haji-Ioannou, 43, sold his easyCruise operation to Hellenic Seaways for a
reported £6.5m last summer. Luton-based easyJet, which launched his budget
empire in 1995, reported revenues up 10.5% to £607.5m in the first quarter of
2009-10 and passenger numbers up 9.1%. Haji-Ioannou and his family have a stake
in the airline worth £734m. They netted about £94m from the sale of the shipping
company Stelmar. The Stelios Philanthropic Foundation supports educational,
entrepreneurial and environmental causes.

2009: £544m, 81=

71= £820m £70m

The Earl of Iveagh and the Guinness family Brewing and property

The £145m Iveagh Wealth Fund, which manages some of the finances of the
Guinnesses and other rich families, was launched by the Iveagh private
investment house at a difficult time in late 2008. By November last year,
however, it had returned 2.5% to its investors, while the FTSE All-Share index
had fallen 4.6%. Iveagh, 40, head of the Guinness family and a direct descendant
of brewer Arthur Guinness, inventor of the classic black stout in 1759,
inherited the title and a tranche of Guinness shares in 1992, when his father
died. The family also has a £260m stake in Diageo, the drinks giant that now
owns Guinness and £31m net assets in two East Anglian companies, Elveden Farms
and Burhill Estates Company. Share sales over the past decade and prime property
interests in Canada worth £400m take the family to £820m. See panel on page 89.

2009: £750m, 52=

73= £810m £190m

Peter Cruddas and family Finance

Cruddas is considering moving parts of CMC Markets, his London-based financial
trading empire, offshore because of burgeoning taxes. CMC had a difficult time
in 2008-09, going from a profit to a £50.4m loss on £90.6m turnover. We value
the 88% stake held by 56-year-old Cruddas, the son of a Smithfield meat market
porter, and his family at £660m, adding £150m for past salaries, dividends and
property .

2009: £1,000m, 40=

55 £975m £375m, 63%

Sir Terry Matthews Computers

Matthews will cross his fingers and pray for fine, dry weather as a billion TV
viewers tune in to watch golf's Ryder Cup in October. Celtic Manor, Matthews's
hotel resort in Newport, South Wales, will be the setting as Colin Montgomerie's
European team tries to regain the trophy. Bringing golf's biggest team event to
Wales is a personal triumph for Matthews but technology, rather than golf, has
been the moneyspinner for the 66-year-old, who founded the Mitel and Newbridge
Networks telecom firms after leaving Wales in 1969 for Canada. Last December, he
announced plans to float Mitel. Celtic House International, his venture capital
group, has more than £500m under management. The portfolio of Wesley Clover, his
investment vehicle, includes the Brookstreet golf resort in Ottawa. The Canadian
Business rich list valued Matthews at £975m in November 2009. We agree.

2009: £600m, 70=

73= £810m £310m

Douglas and Dame Mary Perkins Opticians

Specsavers reported a turnover of £1.1 billion in the year to February 2009 and
is confident of hitting £1.4 billion in 2009-10. The business, based in
Guernsey, is the UK's largest optical retailer. Husband-and-wife team Douglas,
67, and Dame Mary, 66, met while studying to be opticians at the University of
Wales. They built one chain and sold up in 1980 for £2m, before launching
Specsavers in 1984. We value the firm at £800m, adding £10m for other assets.

2009: £500m, 88=

75 £802m New entry

Eugene Shvidler Oil, gas and investments

Shvidler, 46, co-founded the oil trader Runicom in the 1990s with fellow Russian
Roman Abramovich (qv), and the two remain friends and business associates. Their
controlling stake in Sibneft, another oil firm, was sold for £6.6 billion in
2005. Shvidler advised Abramovich on the purchase of Chelsea FC and taking a 41%
stake in Evraz, the Russian steelmaker, and has shares in these investments.
Other Shvidler interests include property in Moscow and a £22m London home. He
is reckoned to be worth £802m by Forbes.

76= £800m £40m

Roger and Peter De Haan Leisure

A second Folkestone Triennial will be held in 2011. The first, in 2008, was a
success, with public artworks by Tracey Emin and Mark Wallinger installed in the
town. It was an initiative by Roger De Haan, 61, above, whose Creative
Foundation aims to renovate buildings and let them to artists at
lower-than-commercial rates. De Haan sold the Saga holiday business, founded by
his late father, in 2004 for £1.35 billion. We allow at least £400m for tax on
the sale proceeds. De Haan's brother, Peter, 58, runs a wine business .

2009: £840m, 49

76= £800m

Gerald Hines Property

The 84-year-old American developer has not escaped the downturn. Last summer,
his Hines group had to hand back to the lenders properties it had built in joint
ventures in California. Work continues in Britain, where Hines has been based
for the past 10 years. Backed by Russian property billionaires Kirill Pisarev
and Yuri Zhukov, he is building a £410m office complex over London's Cannon
Street station. Hines grew up in Indiana during the Depression and sold vacuum
cleaners door-to-door. In 1952, he moved into property and construction. Forbes
magazine reckons Hines has put up more steel and concrete than any other
American developer.

2009: £800m, 50

78 £780m New entry

Eduard Shifrin Industry

The 49-year-old Ukrainian, co-founder of Midland Group, ran a steel mill after
gaining a doctorate in metallurgy. He formed Midland with Alex Shnaider, a
fellow steel trader, and took control of Ukraine's fourth-largest steel mill.
The business has grown into an international private -equity firm, with assets
including casinos and Trump Tower in Toronto. Forbes magazine put London-based
Shifrin's wealth at $1.3 billion in its 2010 list of world billionaires.

79 £764m £260m

Lily Safra Inheritance

Safra won a court battle in March with a Russian tycoon who was seeking to buy
her French estate for £392m. His lawyer did not show up to close the deal and
the Russian lost his £34m deposit. Safra said she was planning to donate the
down payment to 10 charities, including King's College London. Safra, 72, gives
heavily through the Edmond J Safra Foundation and supports the Prince's Trust.
Banker Edmond Safra, her fourth husband, was killed in an arson attack at their
Monaco apartment in 1999. Safra divides her time between Eaton Square in London,
New York, Geneva and Monaco. She was reported to have been the buyer of Alberto
Giacometti's sculpture, Walking Man I, sold for £65m in February. Her wealth is
put at £764m by Forbes in its 2010 list of billionaires.

2009: £504m, 87

80= £750m New entry

Sergei Pugachev Finance

See panel opposite

80= £750m

Lord Vestey and family Meat

Establishment restaurant Green's has opened a new City branch to complement the
original one in St James's. Vestey, 69, is a backer. The Gloucestershire-based
family's fortune derives from the 19th-century meat trade. In the 1980s the
Vesteys moved into property, but suffered heavy losses. The main family
operation is Western United Investment Company. Its profits fell from £17.7m to
£8.5m on sales up £31m at £491.2m in 2008 .

2009: £750m, 52=

82 £744m £271m

Benzion Freshwater and family Property

Freshwater, 62, has at least 292 directorships. Daejan, the London property
group he heads, has seen its share price recover in 2009-10, lifting the
family's 79% stake to £309m. Freshwater's three other main companies had £720m
net assets in 2008-09, with about £400m attributable to the family. Dividends
over the years add £35m.

2009: £473m, 110=

83 £740m £135m

Urs Schwarzenbach Finance

Schwarzenbach, 61, made his fortune from Interexchange, Switzerland's largest
foreign exchange dealership, with clients such as the Sultan of Brunei. He moved
to Britain in the 1980s, becoming a renowned polo player and friend of the royal
family. His property interests include a Scottish estate, an Australian ranch
and the English village of Hambleden, bought for £39m in 2007. Bilan, the Swiss
business magazine, values him at £740m.

2009: £605m, 69

84 £734m

Slavica Ecclestone Divorce

Ecclestone, 51, became one of the richest women in Britain after her divorce
last year. The former model, born in what is now Croatia, ended her 24-year
marriage to Bernie Ecclestone (qv), the Formula One tycoon, on the grounds of
his "unreasonable behaviour". Much of the family's £2.2 billion fortune was held
in her name in offshore trusts in Jersey. It is thought he retained about
two-thirds of his F1 fortune, leaving her with £734m. She told a gossip
columnist recently: "I'm enjoying the freedom of being a woman in my fifties. My
life is beautiful."

2009: £734m, 58

85= £730m £100m

Lord Laidlaw Conferences

The Scottish peer escaped with bruises when the helicopter he was piloting
ditched off the US coast last summer. Laidlaw, 67, who admitted to "sex
addiction" in 2008, moved to America in the 1960s and has homes in Monaco and
Britain. He sold the Institute for International Research, which organises
conferences, for £768m in 2005. It has funded yachts and an art collection, plus
donations to the Conservative party and causes such as the Excelsior academy
school in Newcastle.

2009: £630m, 66=

85= £730m £100m

Jonathan and David Rowland Finance

Banque Havilland is the Rowland family's new private banking and wealth
management operation. About £173m is being invested in the bank, which Jonathan,
34, said was "one of the best transactions we've done''. He and his father
David, 64, sold assets at the top of the market and are looking for bargains
through Rowland Capital in London. Jonathan netted £44m of shares in Shore Group
when it bought his Jellyworks internet business in 2000. His father lives in
Guernsey and is a leading investor. The Rowlands were the biggest political
donors in the UK last year, giving £2m to the Tories (see page 28).

2009: £630m, 66= 85= £730m

Lord Sugar Consumer electronics

Sugar, 63, star of the BBC series The Apprentice, saw profits at his Essex-based
Amshold Group fall in 2008-09 from £71.1m to £4.3m. Net assets also dropped,
from £272m to £203m. Its interests include property trading, aircraft chartering
and management services. Sugar has a stake in the Viglen computer firm and at
least £400m of property, held via Amshold or overseas. He also has £150m cash
and assets including property in London, Florida and Spain. Sugar donated
£400,000 to the Labour party this month.

2009: £730m, 59

88 £719m £219m

Alexander Knaster Finance

In 2005, Knaster, 51, set up Pamplona Capital Management in London with funds of
$3 billion invested in private equity and hedge funds. Pamplona Capital
Advisers, where he is a director, made £11.6m profit on £24.9m sales in 2008.
Forbes values him at £719m.

2009: £500m, 88=

89 £700m £50m

Lord Lloyd-Webber Entertainment

Love Never Dies, Lloyd-Webber's sequel to The Phantom of the Opera, opened in
London last month and is due to move to Broadway before the end of the year. The
original musical has been seen by more than 80m theatregoers. In 2008-09,
profits at the 62-year-old composer's Really Useful theatre group fell from
£73.1m to £9m. The previous year's figures had been flattered by a one-off
£63.5m gain from the sale of a ticketing business. Audiences are holding up well
and the business is worth a comfortable £550m. We add £150m for Lloyd-Webber's
art collection, his homes in Britain and abroad, and past dividends .

2009: £750m, 52=

90 £673m £117m

Peter Jones and family Property

Jones, 75, believes that the diversity of Emerson Group's portfolio and its
strong rental income have helped to lessen the impact of the property downturn.
The former joiner moved into housebuilding in 1959 and was one of the first to
spot the development potential of south Manchester, buying tracts of land
cheaply. His activities have since spread across the country and overseas to
Portugal and Florida. Emerson has not been immune to the recession, however, and
went from a £34.7m profit to a £6.1m loss in 2008-09, mainly because of
exceptional losses on foreignexchange borrowings of more than £24m. Net assets
dropped from £694m to £607m. Jones has another company, PE Jones (Properties),
with about £50m net assets. He and family trusts own all of the shares in both
businesses, which are based in Alderley Edge.

2009: £556m, 78 65

£890m £190m, 27%

Mike Ashley Sports goods

Ashley may be the least popular man on Tyneside, so much so that he stopped
sitting with Newcastle United fans while wearing his replica kit and decided it
was not a good idea to go out on the toon after matches. Newcastle loves a
footballing hero - Bobby Robson, Kevin Keegan, Alan Shearer et al - but Ashley
is proof in black and white that £134m can buy you a football club but it can't
buy you love from the terraces. If the Toon Army were armed, Ashley would be the
first against the wall. He has lessons to learn about how not to run a football
club. Lesson one: Don't try to sell it. Lesson two: Don't try to sell it again.
Lesson three: Don't keep losing managers. Lesson four: Especially not Wor Kevin.
Lesson five: Or Wor Alan. Lesson six: Don't let the club drop out of the Premier
League and expect fans to sing, "There's only one Mike Ashley". Lesson seven:
Don't rename the stadium sportsdirect.com@StJames' Park. Lesson eight: Ever.
This season, manager Chris Hughton turned around the club's fortunes and
Newcastle won promotion to the Premier League as champions - that doesn't mean
the fans like Ashley any better, despite his pledge to make at least £25m
available this summer to buy players. Ashley became involved in sportswear after
leaving school at 16. Two years later, he opened his first sport and ski shop in
Maidenhead. In 2007, he pocketed £929m when he floated Sports Direct, while
retaining control. The listing valued it at £2.2 billion. Since then it has been
a rough ride for investors and the company, which includes Lillywhites, is worth
£617m, with Ashley, 45, having a £451m stake. Sports Direct owns more than 360
outlets as well as Slazenger and Dunlop, and has a stake in the outdoor clothing
firm Blacks. With his Newcastle holding, property, dividends and salaries,
Ashley, who reportedly paid out £50m for his divorce in 2003, could be worth
£1,090m after tax. We reduce that by the £200m he is reckoned to have lost
betting on the share price of HBOS two years ago.

2009: £700m, 60=

From the Kremlin with love

80= £750m New entry

Sergei Pugachev Finance

Pugachev met his girlfriend Alexandra Tolstoy in 2006 in Moscow when they were
married to other people. The Russian financier, known as the "Kremlin's banker"
for his ties with Vladimir Putin, employed Tolstoy, the daughter of
Oxfordshire-based historian Count Nikolai, to teach him English. He says he fell
for her the minute she walked into the room, but knowing it was unreciprocated
he dispensed with her services after three lessons. They met again two years
later, and this time love bloomed. Last year, pregnant with Pugachev's child,
Tolstoy, above, ditched her husband Shamil Galimzyanov, a former showjumper from
peasant stock she had met when he was her guide on a horse trek along the silk
route to China. She moved back to London to enjoy a life of luxury with her new
love and new baby. "Money," Tolstoy, 36, has said, "is a problem that's gone."
They are looking for a country pile where Pugachev, inset, can indulge his hobby
of bream fishing, not a popular sport in Monaco or just outside Moscow, where
they also have homes. Tolstoy is expecting their second child and the couple
plan to marry when their divorces are finalised. Pugachev, 47, is a friend of
Viscount Linley, having taken him bear hunting in Siberia and been treated to a
pheasant shoot in Windsor Great Park in return. He became a shareholder in the
Linley furniture business in 2008. Pugachev made his fortune through shipyards
and property deals. Two years ago he was listed by Russian Forbes with a $2
billion fortune, but that has fallen to £750m today.

92= £660m £150m

Fred and Peter Done Bookmaking

Brothers Fred, 67, above, and Peter, 63, grew up in Salford, where they started
as bookie's runners for their father. Their betting chain, Betfred, has about
800 outlets and is valued at £500m. Peninsula Business Services, the legal
advice group that was Peter's brainchild, is worth £120m. The brothers, still
based in the northwest, have collected £75m in salaries and dividends before tax
over the past decade.

2009: £510m, 86

92= £660m

Jon Hunt Estate agency and property

Hunt sold the London estate agency Foxtons in 2007 for £375m. The 56-year-old is
starting to dip his toe into the market again: Ocubis, his luxury serviced
office business, spent £16m last May on a building in London's Kensington and
£20m on another in Victoria two months later. Hunt, whose CV includes the army
and car washing, has a significant residential and commercial portfolio of his
own, including a Kensington town house and a Suffolk estate.

2009: £660m, 62

94= £650m

Mohamed al-Fayed and family Retailing

The Harrods clientele of wealthy Londoners and free-spending tourists has been
less affected by the downturn than many - the Knightsbridge store reported
record sales of £752m for 2008-09. The boss did not take his annual dividend but
should not have felt the loss too keenly, as he and the family have collected
£368m in dividends since 1999. This has enabled Fayed to bankroll Fulham FC, who
rewarded him with a long run in Europe this season. Harrods, with £414m net
assets, is worth £500m and there is other wealth, including a Scottish estate.

2009: £650m, 63=

94= £650m New entry

David Bromilow Media and sporting goods Bromilow, 67, may have only one British
directorship - Donnington Castle Conferences, which has less than £1m net assets
- but he has proved himself an astute entrepreneur. In 2003 he teamed up with
venture capitalists to take over Survey Sampling, a US information group. That
£51m deal would have been small change for Bromilow, who made about £600m from
his stake in the Adidas sports company during the 1990s. Later he made £150m
from the sale of his Medimedia publishing business. Bromilow, who lives in
Thailand, is worth £650m.

94= £650m £150m

Peter Green and family Mining and inheritance

Having made serious money from his investment in the Savoy Hotel Group, Green,
74, joined the same consortium to bid £530m for prime property in Knightsbridge,
central London. After being widowed, he ran the Canadian mining interests that
had been inherited by his wife, Mary-Jean, daughter of the industrialist Sir
Harold Mitchell. A substantial part of this was sold for £300m in the 1990s.
Green's substantial business affairs, including the investment vehicle Greenaap,
are run from Dublin. The family still has assets in Canada and homes in London
and Bermuda.

2009: £500m, 88= 94= £650m £100m

Paul Sykes Property and forestry

The Yorkshire entrepreneur has left property development behind and is investing
in forestry. Sykes, who left school at 15, built his fortune by breaking up old
buses and selling parts to the Far East. He moved into property and, with Eddie
Healey (qv), turned 1,500 derelict acres beside the M1 near Sheffield into the
Meadowhall Centre. The giant shopping complex was sold in 1999 for £1.2 billion.
We can see more than £260m net assets in Sykes's Highstone Group and the
66-year-old is worth £650m. He spent £6m on a campaign to preserve the pound and
fight against loss of sovereignty to Europe. So disillusioned is Sykes with
Britain that he may follow his forestry investments to live in New Zealand.

2009: £550m, 79=

98 £635m £285m

Sir Cameron Mackintosh Entertainment

Mackintosh, 63, who owns seven London theatres, plans to endow them with enough
money to keep them running after his death. His stake in the American licensing
business MTI is worth £100m and the rights to shows worldwide - including Les
Misérables and Miss Saigon - amount to £225m. The London theatres are valued at
£125m, while there is £85m in the bank. That puts the value of his business
assets at £535m. Private wealth, including Mackintosh's property, takes the
impresario to £635m.

2009: £350m, 146=

99 £610m £137m

Brian Souter and Ann Gloag Transport

The Stagecoach bus and train operation saw a fall in profits for the first half
of 2009-10, although turnover at the Perth business rose 3.5% to £1.08 billion.
Chief executive Souter, 55, and his sister Gloag, 67, co-founded the company in
1980. Gloag spends much of her time on charity work in the Third World and the
pair gave away about £20m of their net wealth last year. Their stake in
Stagecoach is worth £340m, but other assets and at least £240m in dividends take
them to £610m.

2009: £473m, 110= 100 £608m £228m

Viscount Rothermere and family Media

Rothermere, 42, will be delighted that the Daily Mail and General Trust's share
price has recovered from the lows of last year. In the year to September 2009,
huge write-offs resulted in an exceptional £394.6m loss on £2.08 billion sales
but the City scents recovery. The family stake is worth £428m. We add share
sales (£70.7m in 1999-2000), hefty dividends and properties in London and the
southwest.

2009: £380m, 138

Homing in on a fortune

91 £670m £350m, 109%

Will Adderley and family Home furnishing

Shares in the curtains-tocushions retailer that has opened more than 100 Dunelm
Mill stores soared on the back of a 69% rise in pre-tax profits to £46.2m for
the first half of 2009-10. As a result, Dunelm, the listed company that began as
a Leicester market stall in 1979 offering ready-made budget curtains, is worth
about £800m. Set up by Bill and Jean Adderley, their son, Will, 38, has been
chief executive since 1996 and has his sights set on 150 stores. Dunelm will
also invest in new headquarters. Recessionhit customers have no doubt been
enticed by Dunelm's Simply Value for Money slogan. Surging profits allowed
Dunelm to return a special dividend of £43m to shareholders, £28m of which went
to the Adderleys. The family stake is worth nearly £531m, to which dividends and
hefty share sales have been added.

2009: £320m, 167=

101 £605m £55m

Michael Lemos Inheritance

A New York apartment owned by Lemos, 54, went on the market in May 2008 with a
$33.9m price tag. He raised it to $39.5m and last September the price went up to
$45m in what The New York Times called a "game of one-upmanship". Lemos can
afford to wait. He is the son of Constantinos Lemos, a Greek tycoon who moved
out of shipping during the 1980s, investing in property, insurance and tourism.
After his death in 1995, his fortune passed to his son and two daughters. Lemos
lives in London .

2009: £550m, 79=

102 £604m £304m

Charles Dunstone Mobile phones

See panel opposite

103= £600m £250m

Richard Caring Fashion and restaurants

Caring's empire embraces fashion, property, clubs and restaurants. The
61-year-old's Caprice Holdings runs celebrity eateries in the capital such as
The Ivy, Le Caprice and Cecconi's, while he owns International Clothing Designs,
a supplier of garments to Next, Bhs and Marks & Spencer. London-based Caring
made a fortune from property deals in Hong Kong, and in 2007 led a consortium
that bought the former US navy offices on London's Grosvenor Square for £250m.
He plans to turn them into luxury flats.

2009: £350m, 146=

103= £600m £100m

The Duke of Devonshire Land

Devonshire, 65, created a stir in February by declaring Britain's aristocracy
was dead. "Coffin's nailed down, it's in the ground. It doesn't exist - except
that people have titles," he said, adding that if Labour removed all hereditary
peers from the House of Lords, he would revert to his "common" name, Peregrine
Cavendish. He is the 12th duke and his seat, Chatsworth House in Derbyshire,
reopened last month after a face-lift. He owns Bolton Abbey, a 30,000-acre
Yorkshire estate where he has two hotels, as well as Pratt's, the London
gentlemen's club, prime acreage in Eastbourne and farming companies .

2009: £500m, 88=

103= £600m New entry

Carl Hirschmann and family Aviation

The Swiss businessman owes his fortune to Jet Aviation, the family business
founded in 1967. One of the world's leading airline support services companies,
it was sold to the private equity group Permira for an undisclosed sum in 2005.
Three years later, it was sold again for $2.25 billion. Hirschmann lives in
London much of the time. His family fortune was put at about £600m by Bilan, the
Swiss business magazine, in its rich list last December .

103= £600m £100m

The Jatania brothers Toiletries

Lornamead, the toiletry product operation, had a tough time in the American
market in 2008-09. But the Surrey business enjoyed a record 2009-10. Lornamead
is run and co-owned by the four Jatania brothers, led by chief executive Mike,
45, with George, 59, Vin, 54, and Danny, 51. The family came to Britain from
Uganda in 1969. In 2005 Lornamead snapped up the Yardley brand for £60m. Last
year, it sold off part of Yardley for £30m. With property assets, the Jatanias
are worth £600m.

2009: £500m, 88=

103= £600m £350m

Peter Simon and family Fashion

See panel on page 30

103= £600m £200m

The Walker family Aviation, steel and property

Flybe, the Exeter-based budget airline, is reported to be planning a £300m
flotation. This would mean a windfall for the Walker family, which has a 69%
stake in the business. The family's fortune was created by the late Jack Walker,
the Jersey-based Blackburn Rovers benefactor and steel magnate who built up
Flybe before his death 10 years ago.

2009: £400m, 128=

109 £580m £91m

Sir Anwar Pervez and family Cash and carry

Profits at London-based Bestway, which was founded by Pervez, 75, rose in
2008-09 to £80.6m on sales of £2.05 billion. We value parent company Bestway
(Holdings)

at about £750m and Pervez, his family and trusts have a £360m stake. A property
operation, Palmbest, and other assets add £220m. The family gives large amounts
to charity .

2009: £489m, 103=

110 £572m £189m

Henry Engelhardt and family Motor insurance

Admiral, the Cardiff-based insurance company, has opened a new office in
Newport, cementing its position as one of Wales's biggest private-sector
employers. Engelhardt, 52, an American, has a stake worth £533m. Share sales and
dividends put his worth at £572m.

2009: £383m, 136

111 £570m £260m

Peter Hargreaves Finance

The book In for a Penny: A Business Adventure is Hargreaves's account of how he
and Stephen Lansdown (qv) built Hargreaves Lansdown, the independent financial
adviser. The Bristol company was founded in 1981 and floated in 2007. Today it
is worth £1.38 billion and Hargreaves retains a stake worth £497m. The
63-year-old chief executive sold £75m of shares in the float and has had
£30m-plus dividends in the past 10 years.

2009: £310m, 176

112 £565m £235m

Tony Buckingham Oil and diamonds

Heritage Oil, the Canada-based oil exploration company, was set up by
Buckingham, 58, who is based in Guernsey. It is worth more than £1.4 billion and
Buckingham's stake is valued at £475m. He has other interests and properties in
London, Hampshire, Switzerland and France.

2009: £330m, 156=

113 £562m £8m

Paddy McNally Sports advertising, hospitality

The former journalist founded Geneva-based Allsport, which owns trackside
advertising rights at Formula One circuits and operates the Paddock Club, an F1
hospitality provider. McNally, 72, sold out to a private equity group in 2006.
His properties include a Wiltshire manor and chalets in Verbier. Bilan, the
Swiss business magazine, put McNally's wealth at £562m in its December 2009 rich
list.

2009: £570m, 75

14 £557m £72m

Sir Donald Gordon and family Property

South African-born Gordon, 79, was sanguine about a share issue at Liberty
International last year. The company raised more than £620m and Gordon and his
family saw their stake diluted from 21.7% to 14.82%. He put £40m into the pot
himself, but said: "I will be slightly reduced but it is not important. I will
still be the largest shareholder." The London-based operation has shopping
centres such as Lakeside in Essex. We value the family's stake at £427m. There
are other assets and we deduct £20m in donations to arts organisations such as
the Royal Opera House and the Wales Millennium Centre.

2009: £485m, 105=

115= £550m £100m

Boris Berezovsky Finance

London-based Russian exile Berezovsky, 64, won £150,000 libel damages in the
High Court last month, after a Russian TV station wrongly accused him of being
behind the murder of former KGB spy Alexander Litvinenko in 2006. He is hoping
to win rather more from former business partner Roman Abramovich (qv), who he
accuses of coercing him into selling his Sibneft oil stake cheaply. Berezovsky's
fortune could soon be open to scrutiny as his estranged wife, Galina, instructed
a top London law firm in October to start divorce proceedings. Berezovsky helped
to set up the first Mercedes dealership in Moscow.

2009: £450m, 14=

115= £550m New entry

Sri Prakash Lohia Industry

Lohia, 57, was born in India and his father founded Indorama in Indonesia in
1976. It has grown into one of the world's largest textile and plastics
operations, with factories in India, Thailand, Turkey, Holland, the United
States and Indonesia. Lohia is one of three brothers running the family empire
and is based in London. Forbes magazine's Indian rich list put his fortune at
£550m in 2009.

115= £550m £50m

Lord Paul and family Industry

Paul, 79, saw his Caparo car components-to-metals group push its turnover up to
a record £861m in 2008. High borrowing costs, however, turned a £6.4m pre-tax
profit into a £3m loss. Paul's sons run the operation while he sits in the House
of Lords. Paul came to Britain from his native India to seek treatment for his
daughter's leukaemia in 1966. Staying on after her death, he threw himself into
building up Caparo, which is now worth about £450m. We add £100m for his Indian
assets, including hotels and restaurants.

2009: £500m, 88=

115= £550m £50m

Derrick Smith Finance

As a small but well-connected shareholder in pub group Mitchells & Butlers
(M&B), Smith was in the headlines by association as his friend Joe Lewis
(qv)battled for control of the group, ousting M&B's leadership in January. Smith
has a 2.5% stake in the Birminghambased pub group. A former bookie who has made
huge profits trading currencies, he spends much of his time in Barbados, where
he has a stable of horses. He is part-owner of the Sandy Lane hotel.

2009: £500m, 88=

119 £542m £447m

Oleg Novachuk Mining

As chief executive of Kazakhmys, Novachuk, 39, helps run one of the world's top
copper mining groups. The Kazakhstan-based operation has its headquarters in
London. Floated on the stock market in 2005, it is now worth £8.3 billion.
Novachuk's stake is valued at £528m. Share sales add to his wealth.

2009: £95m, 575=

120 £540m

The Thomson family Media

Dundee publisher DC Thomson has initiated a "full strategic review" of its
business. It could mean that Dennis the Menace and other characters of The Beano
might be up for adoption. A television animation of Dennis has helped the
publisher. The DC Thomson flagship, The Sunday Post, still sells just under
400,000 copies. We value the company at £800m. The family's stake is worth £504m
and it has other assets.

2009: £540m, 83

121= £530m £30m

Jim Mellon Property and finance

Mellon has been investing in German property and about 70% of his wealth is tied
up in 40,000 apartments there. Mellon, 53, who was a fund manager in Hong Kong
in the 1970s, made his money from investments including a £55m return from
Charlemagne Capital in 2006. He has stakes of £20m in quoted firms including
Emerging Metals. Mellon is based in the Isle of Man, where he is a big property
owner. He says our £500m ranking last year was "fairly accurate", but owing to
recent success selling the euro against the dollar, we raise him by £30m.

2009: £500m, 88=

121= £530m £200m

Phillip Sheppard and family Recycling

A tough time for European Metal Recycling, which saw its 2008 profits almost
halve to £63m, though sales rose by £900m to nearly £3.1 billion. Headed by
Sheppard, 63, the company's giant shredders are a feature of Liverpool's docks.
The outfit was formed in 1994 when Sheppard Group acquired Coopers Holdings in
Swindon. Today it stands at the forefront of the recycling industry with sites
worldwide. It is worth about £500m. The Sheppard family owns it all and we add
£30m for past dividends .

2009: £330m, 156=

Still upwardly mobile

102 £604m £304m, 101%

Charles Dunstone Mobile phones

Six months after tying the knot with Celia Gordon Shute, a PR executive,
Dunstone has already been through a divorce. Happily, it was the retail and
TalkTalk telecoms arms of his Carphone Warehouse group that parted company in a
demerger last month, while the couple, above, remain blissfully hitched.
Dunstone, 45, who co-founded the quoted Carphone Warehouse with David Ross in
1989, is chairman of the two restructured companies. Formerly billed as one of
Britain's most eligible bachelors, he took himself off the market in style at a
wedding whose guest list contained big names from business, showbiz and
politics. Not many men could count Marks & Spencer's Sir Stuart Rose among their
ushers, or Tony Blair and Duran Duran's Simon Le Bon among the many famous bums
on pews. The son of a BP executive, Dunstone followed an unconventional route
after leaving Uppingham public school, eschewing university to work in computer
sales. At 25, he set up Carphone Warehouse from a London flat with £6,000
savings and built it into the biggest mobile phone retailer in Europe, winning a
royal warrant in 2001. He is a friend of the Prince of Wales and took over from
controversial banker Sir Fred Goodwin as chairman of the Prince's Trust last
July. He joined the youth charity's council in 2000 and is committed to helping
fledgling entrepreneurs. "I had some breaks in my life, and what the Prince's
Trust does is give a chance to people who never get a chance," he said. An avid
sailor, Dunstone had a triumphant run in his 52ft yacht Rio at last year's Cowes
Week, adding the Rocking Chair trophy to his collection of silverware. He also
races his 118ft luxury yacht Hamilton 2. His two demerged companies have a stock
market value of £1.7 billion, making his stakes worth £568m. Share sales,
property and other assets add to his wealth.

2009: £300m, 178=

Monsoon season

103= £600m £350m, 140%

Peter Simon and family Fashion

The sun is shining on Simon, 60, whose Monsoon Accessorize fashion group has
more than 1,000 shops and is doing so well that it plans to open another 140. In
2008-09 it made £33m profit, which vindicated Simon's decision to take the
London-based retailer off the stock market in 2007. His bid for the 25% of the
group that he did not own was accepted by shareholders and recommended by his
board and valued the company at £755m. He has come a long way since 1969, when
he joined a nudist commune in Ibiza before returning to London to run a market
stall. In 1973, he opened his first Monsoon shop and 11 years later he added the
Accessorize chain, selling bags, belts, hats and jewellery. In 1998 the company
was floated, with Simon's 75.5% stake worth £570m. Simon has an extensive art
collection at Monsoon's headquarters. He also has a private property company and
owns the Electric Cinema on Portobello Road. We value Monsoon at £550m and add
£50m for other assets.

2009: £250m, 22=

121= £530m £10m

Michael Tabor Leisure

Tabor was entertained by West Ham owners David Sullivan (qv) and David Gold (qv)
recently. The Hammers fan's first passion is the turf. Starspangledbanner, his
new horse, cost £5.8m. Tabor, 68, sold a bookmakers' chain in 1995 for about
£28m. His fortune then grew through the currency markets. He has stakes in the
Sandy Lane hotel in Barbados and Victor Chandler's (qv) gaming operation .

2009: £520m, 85

124 £524m £124m

Dieter Bock Property

The London-based German owns a small property firm, Advanta, but it is a
fraction of his wealth. He gave a glimpse of that in 2006, when he sold three
Cape Town office blocks for £21m. In 1993, Bock, 71, took control of Lonrho. He
later became vice-chairman of an America property company. In the 2009 German
rich list compiled by Manager magazine, Bock's fortune was put at £524m. We
agree.

2009: £400m, 128=

125 £522m £116m

Chris Lazari Property

Lazari's skill in upgrading buildings in London's West End and getting good
tenants is paying off. Profits at Lazari Investments rose in 2008-09 from £18.4m
to £26.7m, and should hit £44m in 2009-10. This 45% rise was achieved on the
back of falling interest rates on £924m of borrowings and a 10% rise in rental
income. Lazari, a Greek Cypriot by birth, has other assets.

2009: £638m, 65

126= £520m £90m

Lloyd Dorfman Foreign exchange

Travelex, the foreign exchange and international payments firm, is considering a
sale or flotation. The recession saw less travel and cross-border trade but
Dorfman, 57, the chairman, said full-year earnings should be down only slightly
on the £133m in 2008. He founded the London firm in 1976, and collected £240m
before tax for part of his holding in 2005. He retains a 28% stake worth £350m.

2009: £430m, 123=

126= £520m £220m

Mo Ibrahim Mobile phones

Satya Capital, Ibrahim's private investment firm, is looking to invest £200m in
Africa this year. The former BT manager built his fortune from Celtel, the
African mobile phone operation, and a consultancy. The proceeds should make
Sudanese-born Ibrahim, 63, who is based in London, worth £600m but we cut him
back as a result of his charitable initiatives in Africa.

2009: £300m, 178=

126= £520m £200m

Patrick McKenna Finance and media

See panel on page 33

129 £519m £20m

Joanne Rowling Novels and films

See panel opposite

130 £515m £200m

Tom Singh and family Fashion

The New Look founder saw sales at the Weymouth-based fashion group rise last
Christmas. A planned flotation was shelved in February because of adverse stock
market conditions but may be resurrected. We value the company at £1.4 billion.
Singh, 60, who borrowed money from his parents to start New Look, retains a
22.5% stake, worth about £315m. Share sales add £200m to the family total.

2009: £315m, 174=

131 £510m £110m

Marcus Evans Business services

Evans, 46, who is based in Bermuda, owns 87.5% of Ipswich Town football club.
His business events and information company employs more than 3,000 people in 36
countries and is worth £300m. We add another £210m for property and other
assets.

2009: £400m, 128=

132= £500m New entry

Shwan Al-Mulla Construction

Al-Mulla, president of Iraqi Consultants & Construction Bureau, has made a
fortune from the reconstruction of his home country. He has a number of British
directorships, a London flat and a home counties mansion, plus property
overseas. Al-Mulla, 49, supports Amar International Charitable Foundation, which
helps people in Iraq and Lebanon.

132= £500m £60m

Lord Ballyedmond Pharmaceuticals

Ballyedmond, 66, owns the Newry-based pharmaceutical company Norbrook
Laboratories, which last year unveiled a medical treatment it claims could
revolutionise cattle farming by eliminating parasites. Norbrook is worth £300m.
Ballyedmond also has big property and land interests.

2009: £440m, 120=

132= £500m £100m

Peter and Denise Coates Bookmaking and online gambling

Bet365, the online gaming business, saw profits rise from £30.4m to £66.5m in
2008-09. Peter Coates, 72, chairman of Stoke City FC, started the Provincial
Racing chain in 1974. In 2000 daughter Denise, 42, suggested a move online and
Bet365 was born. Coates sold his shops in 2005 and has disposed of other
businesses for £50m.

2009: £400m, 128=

132= £500m

Felix Dennis Media

Dennis, 62, who started on Oz, the satirical magazine, is expanding his news
magazine The Week in America. It is worth £150m, as is his UK media operation,
Dennis Publishing. His American lads' magazines sold for more than £120m before
tax in 2007. The money is going into the Forest of Dennis in the Midlands, where
600,000 saplings have been planted. We add £100m for his Warwickshire estate and
other assets.

2009: £500m, 88=

132= £500m £200m

Trevor Hemmings Property

Hemmings, 74, sold Blackpool Tower to the council for about £40m in March. He
sold Pontin's holiday group to Scottish & Newcastle for a stake that was worth
£218m when S&N was taken over. Net assets at his main company, Northern Trust
Group, fell to £132m in 2008-09. His interests include Trust Inns. The reviving
market lifts his total this year.

2009: £300m, 178=

132= £500m £100m

Leo Noe and family Property

Noe was part of a consortium that snapped up a Dublin shopping centre in January
for about £300m - which was the asking price for a 50% stake two years
previously. The 56-year-old is executive chairman of F&C Reit Asset Management,
a London fund manager. Last summer Pinton Estates, an investment vehicle of F&C
Reit, collapsed because of cashflow problems. Noe and his family have
substantial wealth from deals and investments. He gives to charities in Britain
and Israel.

2009: £600m, 70=

132= £500m £5m

Jack Petchey Property

The property veteran says this recession has been the worst in his 84 years. His
empire has included taxis, timeshares and football clubs Aston Villa and
Watford. Petchey holds £37m of stakes in quoted companies, and keeps an office
in London. His charity has given £65m to youth projects.

2009: £495m, 102

132= £500m £320

Tony Tabatznik and family Pharmaceuticals

Tabatznik sold Arrow, the Hertfordshire drug operation he co-founded in 2000, to
America's Watson Pharmaceuticals last year for $1.75 billion in cash and shares.
Its sales grew to more than $650m in 2008. Tabatznik, 62, has joined the Watson
board and is also a director of European Healthcare Group, a nursing home
operator. The Labour party donor, who was born in South Africa, and his family
collected £200m from the sale of Generics (UK), an earlier drug company. We add
the Arrow proceeds and other assets.

2009: £180m, 309=

140 £497m £100m

Michael Cornish and family Packaging

Banks took over packaging group Linpac from Montagu Private Equity last year in
a refinancing deal. The Cornish family, founder of the Birmingham firm, made
£700m from selling to Montagu in 2003. About £120m went back into the business
and the takeover may have hit the family, led by Michael, 56.

2009: £597m, 74

129 £519m £20m, 4%

Joanne Rowling Novels and films

The Wizarding World of Harry Potter theme park opens at Universal Orlando in
Florida on June 18. It is the latest vehicle for the star of Hogwarts, though it
is unlikely to make a big difference to the wealth of Rowling, creator of the
legend and author of the seven hugely popular books. Not that she needs much
money. Sales of the series are approaching £450m, which is why Rowling is easily
the world's richest author. Having escaped penury as a single mother in
Edinburgh with the first Harry Potter novel, published in 1997, royalties should
average £1 a book. The six Potter films have garnered $5.4 billion at the box
office. The final work, Harry Potter and the Deathly Hallows, is being split
into two movies, with the first due out in November. Rowling enjoys a cut of
royalties and merchandising, which will take her to at least £600m thus far.
Unlike many top authors, she has refused to become a tax exile and lives in
Scotland. So her £600m of income becomes little more than £360m once the Inland
Revenue has called. She is an enormous benefactor of charities, giving £22m to
Comic Relief, and has set up the Children's High Level Group. She also
established the Volant Trust, which takes the maiden name of her late mother,
Anne. The trust had income of more than £4.5m last year and supports research
into multiple sclerosis (from which Anne Rowling died in 1990)

and projects to alleviate social deprivation. In all, Rowling's giving may well
have been £80m over the years, which cuts that £360m to £280m. She lives pretty
frugally and, apart from £10m of properties, has invested the income, taking her
to perhaps £300m. What cannot be disputed is the value of Potter and a
guaranteed future income stream. The US magazine Advertising Age studied the
brand last year and suggested it was worth £7.5 billion. Should Rowling wish to
follow pop stars and sell her share of Harry Potter (as they sell their back
catalogues)

she could add another £220m in intangible brand value for future film and book
income. In all, that would place her at £520m. But we must not forget her £1m
donation to the Labour party, announced in 2008, and clip Rowling back to £519m.

2009: £499m, 101

141 £495m £165m

The Warburton family Baking

Warburtons has spent heavily on advertising as it battles with Hovis for
domination of the bread market. The company has come a long way since the days
when brothers Thomas and George launched a small grocery in Bolton. The business
is worth its £471m net asset figure and dividends of £75m since 1994 take the
Warburton family, which owns the business, to £495m after tax.

2009: £330m, 156=

142 £490m £1m

The Duke of Bedford Land

Bedford, 48, surprised the property community in April 2009 by buying the
offices of Time Out magazine in Tottenham Court Road for £14.1m. The 340-yearold
Bedford Estate in London owns about 180 buildings in Bloomsbury, but this was
its first big deal for years. The £200m Center Parcs holiday village on his
Woburn estate is due to open later this year and will create 1,500 jobs. The
house and grounds are worth £100m and the art treasures inside, including 24
Canalettos, are valued at £300m, although we halve that to £150m to allow for
tax. Allowing for inheritance tax following his father's death, we value Bedford
at £490m.

2009: £489m, 103=

143 £481m £4m

Tony Murray and family Plant hire, property and fire protection

Murray, 90, is as active as ever, but his British companies are having mixed
fortunes. Profits slumped in the first half of 2009 at Andrews Sykes, his
Wolverhampton-based hirer of heating and air conditioning equipment. At his
other main British operation, the Leedsbased London Security fire protection
business, revenues rose in the first half of 2009 by 19.4%. Murray's stake in
the two groups is worth £131m. He also has a commercial property portfolio,
which we value at £250m, as well as cash and personal property of £100m.

2009: £485m, 105=

144 £480m

The Duke of Sutherland Art and land

A vast canvas by the French artist Paul Delaroche depicting Charles I before his
execution went on show at the National Gallery in February. It is part of a
massive collection owned by Sutherland, 70. While the Delaroche has been saved,
a more valuable Titian is likely to go abroad - the National Galleries of
Scotland has to find £50m by the end of 2012 to save Diana and Callista.
Sutherland inherited the title in 2000, along with 12,000 acres in the Scottish
Borders and East Anglia. We value his art collection at £800m but, allowing for
any tax bill, if he sold it he would raise only £400m. We add £30m for land
holdings and £50m from the sale of another Titian, Diana and Actaeon, which was
bought for the nation last year .

2009: £480m, 107=

146= £470m £20m

Charles Cayzer and family Finance

Four members of the Cayzer family sit on the board of Caledonia Investments. The
family has a third of the shares in the group, worth about £320m. Other assets
and past dividends take the family to £470m. Charles Cayzer, 53 tomorrow, is
here representing the family.

2009: £450m, 14=

146= £470m

Ronald Hobson Property

Hobson, 89, teamed up with Sir Donald Gosling (qv) to build car parks on old
bomb sites in London and the rest of Britain. They sold the parent company,
National Parking Corporation, collecting about £290m each, and the sale of two
other companies made Hobson a further £97m. Huge dividends from National Parking
before its sale, plus property company sales, keep Hobson at £470m.

2009: £470m, 12=

148 £466m £291m

Leif Hoegh and family Shipping

Oslo business Leif Hoegh & Co specialises in liquid natural gas ships and car
carriers. Hoegh, 36, who is based in London, is deputy chairman. The family took
the company private in 2003. Hoegh and his family were valued at £466m by the
Norwegian rich list in Kapital magazine in 2009 .

2009: £175m, 322=

149 £464m £282m

Naresh Goyal and family Airline

See panel on page 34

150 £452m £172m

Stephen Lansdown Finance

Lansdown, co-founder of the financial adviser Hargreaves Lansdown, sold £47m of
shares last spring to fund private projects, including a new stadium for Bristol
City football club, which he chairs. The 57-year-old retains a £352m stake in
the finance firm he set up in Bristol in 1981 with Peter Hargreaves (qv). He
sold £75m of shares in a 2007 float and has other wealth. Our valuation allows
for reinvestment and any tax.

2009: £280m, 207=

151= £450m £50m

Terry Bramall and family Construction

Bramall, 67, and his family sold Keepmoat in 2007 for £563m and he is now
financing developer 4Urban, which aims to form strategic partnerships with
financiers and the public sector. Doncaster-based Keepmoat built and refurbished
social housing. Bramall is one of the owners of Doncaster Rovers FC. We assess
him after reinvestment and any taxes.

2009: £400m, 128=

151= £450m £20m

Sir Evelyn and Lady de Rothschild and family Finance

De Rothschild's son David is sailing a plastic catamaran through the Pacific to
highlight the ecological disaster created by plastic waste in the sea. Evelyn,
78, netted £134m when the French and British arms of the Rothschild banking
dynasty were merged. Lady de Rothschild, 55, an American technology
entrepreneur, made £100m from the sale of broadband company, FirstMark.

2009: £430m, 123=

151= £450m £30m

Jack Dellal Property

"Black" Jack Dellal, 86, keeps a low profile, apart from occasional forays into
the property market, but his granddaughter, Alice, is a darling of the gossip
columns. A grunge model, Alice is the face of high-street fashion store Mango
and body of luxury lingerie brand Agent Provocateur. Dellal's main company,
Allied Commercial Holdings, has net assets of £54.6m.

2009: £480m, 107=

151= £450m

Sir Donald Gosling Property

Gosling, 81, was promoted to the rank of Honorary Rear Admiral on his 80th
birthday. With Ronald Hobson (qv), Gosling started the National Parking
Corporation in 1948, netting about £290m when it was sold. They also sold
property businesses. He is worth at least £450m after hefty charitable
donations.

2009: £450m, 14=

151= £450m £20m

David and Richard Thompson Food and horse racing

Cheveley Park Stud in Newmarket is one of the world's top racehorse breeding
operations. It is owned by David, 74, who started the Hillsdown food group in
1975. Thompson sold half his stake in 1987 for £145m and the rest later for a
similar amount.

Son Richard, 45, has £10.2m net assets in a company called Amphitrite. They have
other assets.

2009: £430m, 123=

156 £447m £117m

Mark Dixon Serviced offices

Dixon, 50, opened his 1,000th Regus business centre in Mauritius last September.
He launched Regus, based in Surrey, in 1989 and his stake is worth £356m. He has
other assets.

2009: £330m, 156=

157 £445m £5mt

Freddie Linnett and the Murphy family Property

Charles Street Buildings (Leicester) has survived the downturn by letting
buildings to the government. Linnett, 60, is a leading shareholder in the £399m
business. Other assets take her and the Leicester-based Murphy family to £445m.

2009: £450m, 14=

158= £430m

Felix Grovit Foreign exchange

Grovit, 68, founded the Chequepoint foreign exchange business in London, and is
involved in Berkeley Credit. He started a software operation in India, and has
property there.

2009: £430m, 123=

158= £430m £48m

David Harding Finance

Harding, 48, runs Winton Capital, a London hedge fund. He has had more than
£200m before tax in dividends and pay. Goldman Sachs paid £50m for a stake in
Winton, which values his share at £282.5m.

2009: £382m, 137

158= £430m £130m

Lord Kirkham and family Furniture

Kirkham, 65, terminated the £500m sale of his DFS furniture group in March,
saying. "I don't need the money. I'm loaded." Kirkham bought DFS from the
receivers in 1983. In 2004, he took the Doncaster business private in a £507m
deal. The family also garnered £180m in share sales.

2009: £300m, 178=

158= £430m £100m

Sir Peter Rigby Computers, aviation and hotels

Rigby, 66, will be delighted that his Mallory Court hotel in Leamington retained
its Michelin star but it is in computers that he made his fortune.
Midlands-based Specialist Computers supplies British Airways, Kellogg, Orange
and Peugeot with IT support. Rigby is a pilot and his Patriot Aviation, based at
Cranfield and Gloucester, operates flying schools, helicopter maintenance and
charter businesses .

2009: £330m, 156=

162 £427m £192m

Mike Lynch Software

Autonomy, the Cambridge-based software house, is worth more than £3.9 billion.
It proves Lynch, 44, the founder, is a rare beast: a British high-tech
entrepreneur who has cracked the US market. Lynch borrowed £2,000 in 1991 to
launch his own firm, Aerodynamics. Fast-forward to 2000 and Autonomy was
floated. Lynch's stake is worth £351m. Other assets include a farm company,
property and share sales.

2009: £235m, 238=

Rocker rolls on

145 £475m £35m, 8%

Sir Paul McCartney Music

Money can't buy him good weather, so Sir Paul McCartney will be hoping for clear
skies when he performs open-air concerts in June. As part of his transatlantic
Up and Coming tour, he will be appearing at the RDS, Dublin, the Isle of Wight
Festival, Glasgow's Hampden Park two days after his 68th birthday and the
Millennium stadium, Cardiff - the ex-Beatle's first gig in the Welsh capital for
three decades. The series will finish in Hyde Park on June 27. McCartney toured
North America and Europe last year, when 19 shows were seen by 438,000 people
and grossed $54.7m at the box office. He also performed at the live final of
ITV's The X Factor, showing he still seeks a broad audience. In September the
original Beatles catalogue was released, digitally remastered, for the first
time since 1987 alongside the launch of the music video game The Beatles: Rock
Band. Both sold well. EMI initially shipped 5m units of the remastered boxed set
round the world and sold 626,000 copies in week one in the US alone. About 1.8m
copies of the game were sold worldwide by the year end. The royalties will not
be apparent in the accounts yet, but Apple Corps, the main Beatles company, is
looking healthy. In the year to January 2009, it made £6.2m profit on £15.7m
sales. That followed a "profit on the sale of fixed assets" of £50.6m in the
year to January 2008, after which £35.1m of dividends were paid to the
shareholders, including McCartney. Our rock expert raises the pop veteran's
valuation to £475m, slightly more than the wealth disclosed in his divorce
battle with Heather Mills in 2007. The settlement let him retain his homes in
Britain and overseas, including a handsome town house in St John's Wood, north
London, and a Sussex estate.

2009: £440m, 120=

126= £520m £200m, 63%

Patrick McKenna Finance and media

McKenna has few peers when it comes to sniffing out an investment opportunity in
the media and entertainment industry. His Londonbased Ingenious Media backed
blockbuster movie Avatar and is forecasting a £123m profit. McKenna, 53, started
at Deloitte and Touche, becoming a partner at 28. He set up Ingenious in 1998
and helped Robbie Williams to secure his £80m deal with EMI. McKenna said of his
trade: "Showbusiness is about art and commerce. Somebody looks after the art and
I look after the commerce." The firm is being investigated by HM Revenue &
Customs over alleged tax avoidance in its film finance schemes but it denies any
wrongdoing. McKenna is preparing to wind down his investment vehicle, Ingenious
Media Active Capital, but there is still plenty of glitter left. Ingenious made
a profit £25.6m on £502m sales in 2008-09. With the Avatar takings to come, he
is worth £520m.

2009: £320m, 167=

163 £425m £75m

Tony Gallagher Property

Gallagher, 58, heads his own commercial and residential development group,
responsible for schemes such as the 45-acre Warwick Gates business park in
Heathcote. His main companies have strong net assets and low levels of
borrowing.

2009: £500m, 88=

164 £420m £55m

Mark Fenwick and family Department stores

The first Fenwick department store opened in Newcastle upon Tyne in 1882 and the
group now has 11 sites, including one in London's Bond Street. The business is
chaired by Fenwick, 61. We value it at £400m, adding £20m for other assets.

2009: £365m, 144

165 £417m £117m

Steven Lamprell Oil services

Lamprell Energy is worth £385m. British-born Lamprell launched the operation 30
years ago in the United Arab Emirates and has built it into one of the largest
oil services companies in the Gulf. He made £230m in a 2006 flotation and kept a
33% stake, now worth £160m. He has other interests, including racehorses in
Dubai.

2009: £300m, 178=

166= £410m £149m

Anurag Dikshit Internet gambling

Dikshit sold his remaining shares in Party Gaming in January for £105m, taking
his sale proceeds from the business to £661m. About £213m was swallowed up by a
fine for breaking US gambling rules. The Indian-born software expert, ranked
fourth in our Giving List, lives in Gibraltar. He has given more than £293m to
his Kusuma Trust in the past year, which funds educational and humanitarian
projects, mostly in India.

2009: £559m, 77

166= £410m £222m

Tom Morris and family Discount stores

The Liverpool-based chain Home Bargains recently announced a £25m expansion into
Northern Ireland. The discount retailer, which has more than 190 stores, was
founded by Morris, 56, in 1976. With £137m net assets, it is worth £400m. There
are other assets.

2009: £188m, 303

168= £400m

The Clarke family Property

The family wants to knock down an old cinema in Jersey and build a superstore to
be operated by one of the UK's big four. The Clarke family has large tracts of
St Helier, retail outlets and pub sites across Jersey.

2009: £400m, 128=

168= £400m New entry

Peter Cullum Insurance

Cullum, 59, and his Maidstonebased Towergate insurance operation made 17
acquisitions last year, despite the downturn. The Cullum Family Trust focuses on
poverty relief and the advancement of education and religion. Towergate should
be worth £600m. That would value Cullum's stake at £345m and he has other
wealth.

168= £400m £50m

Michael Evans and family Property Evans Property

Group paid £21.3m for a prime slice of real estate in Leeds in March 2009. The
Evans family, led by Monacobased Michael, 74, is involved in development work in
the north of England. We value the business at £350m and add £50m for other
assets.

2009: £350m, 146=

168= £400m £50m

Roy Richardson and family Property

Richardson, 80, and his late twin brother, Don, built shopping centres all over
Europe. The family has a 50% stake in a £600m new-town project that will
resurrect the site of Scotland's Ravenscraig steelworks. The family's main
company, Swiftfire, has net assets of £145.2m.

2009: £350m, 146=

168= £400m £50m

David Sullivan Property and media

Barely had the ink dried on his sale of Birmingham City than Essex-based
Sullivan, 61, and his business partner David Gold (qv) bought a 50% stake in
West Ham United in a deal valuing the club at £105m. Sullivan made about £20m
from selling his stake in Birmingham to the new Hong Kong owner. Roldvale, his
main company, has paid him £54m over the past 11 years. Sport Newspapers was
sold in August 2007 for about £50m and he has a £300m-plus property portfolio.

2009: £450m, 14=

168= £400m £100m

Lawrence Tomlinson Industry

Tomlinson, 45, develops purposebuilt care homes through Leeds-based LNT
Construction, while CoolBlue develops bespoke software for the care industry. He
made £200m from the sale of Orchard Care Homes and set up Ideal Care Homes.

2009: £300m, 178=

174 £390m £30m

Lord Rothschild Finance

Rothschild, 73, left NM Rothschild & Sons in 1980 to take over RIT Capital, then
a small investment trust. He and his family have a £235m stake in the business.
In 1989, Rothschild inherited £93m from an aunt, and he has substantial other
assets.

2009: £360m, 145

175= £385m £205m

Keith Miller and family Construction

Miller Group, the Edinburghbased housebuilder, is run by Miller, 61. We value
the family's stake at £350m. Other assets take the Millers to £385m.

2009: £180m, 309=

175= £385m £42m

Sir David Samworth and family Food

Samworth, 74, was knighted last June for his charity work. The former chairman
of family-owned meat and food firm Samworth Brothers, based in Leicestershire,
sponsors three academies in the east Midlands. Samworth Brothers (Holdings)is
worth £340m, and we add £45m for other assets.

2009: £343m, 155

177 £380m £135m

Peter Harris and family Leisure

Bourne Leisure, which owns Butlins, 13 Warner Leisure hotels and 36 Haven
caravan parks, attracts 4m visitors a year. The business, based in Hemel
Hempstead, is chaired by its founder, Harris, 76, who is also a racehorse
trainer. Harris's stake in Bourne Leisure is worth about £360m. We add £20m for
his racing interests, past salaries and dividends .

2009: £245m, 235=

178 £377m £112m

Sir Arnold Clark Car sales

Recession has not put Clark, 82, off expanding his Glasgow-based car
dealerships. The Arnold Clark Organisation is worth its £362.2m net assets
figure, and we add £15m for other assets and property .

2009: £265m, 215=

179= £375m

Vivian Imerman Spirits and food

South African entrepreneur Imerman is involved in a bitter divorce battle with
his estranged wife, Lisa Tchenguiz, who is reported to be claiming £100m. Known
to gossip columnists as the Man from Del Monte, London-based Imerman, 54, sold
his stake in the tinned-fruit group for £380m. In 2004, he and his then
brother-in-law, Robert Tchenguiz (qv), took full control of Whyte & Mackay, the
Scottish whisky group. Imerman made about £396m when it was sold in 2007 .

2009: £375m, 139=

179= £375m £125m

Michael Platt Finance

When he is not trading at Bluecrest Capital Management, the hedge fund he
founded with William Reeves (qv), Platt is busy in the art world, sponsoring
young British talent. Platt, 42, has a £300m stake in Bluecrest, to which we add
£75m for sale proceeds, salaries and bonuses.

2009: £250m, 22=

179= £375m £125m

William Reeves Finance

Bluecrest Capital Management is moving part of its operation from London to
Genevabecause of rising taxes. Reeves, 46, cofounded Bluecrest with Michael
Platt (qv) in 2000 and has an equal stake of £300m plus £75m of sale proceeds,
dividends and salaries.

2009: £250m, 22=

179= £375m £110m

David Wilson and family Construction

The Leicestershire developer Davidsons is worth at least £75m. It was started by
Wilson, 68, after he sold Wilson Bowden, his quoted housebuilder, in 2007 to
Barratt Developments. We assess him on that deal and his latest assets.

2009: £265m, 215=

183 £374m £74m

Caspar MacDonald-Hall Property

London & Cambridge Properties saw its net assets fall sharply from £579m to
about £420m in 2008-09. MacDonald-Hall has a 40% stake in the Midlands-based
operation and other property assets. The 59-year-old also has a £15m stake in
AIM Aviation.

2009: £300m, 178=

184 £373m £17m

Jan Mol Computers

Chess-loving Mol sponsors an annual tournament in London, now his home city,
which pits Britain against Holland, his country of origin. Mol, 68, sold his IT
company, Volmac, in the 1990s and another telecoms group in 2005 for £68m. Quote
500, which tracks the Dutch rich, put his wealth at £373m last year .

2009: £390m, 135

185 £367m

Tito Tettamanti Investments

The Swiss financier's investments have included stakes in the SIG packaging
group, which he sold for £79m, and the publisher Jean Frey, which added £58m.

Tettamanti, 79, spends much of the year in London, and we agree with the £367m
valuation put on him by Bilan, the Swiss business magazine, in its 2009 rich
list.

2009: £367m, 143

186= £360m £60m

David and Jacqueline Gold Media and lingerie

Having sold Birmingham City football club last autumn, David Gold bought a 50%
stake in West Ham United with business partner David Sullivan (qv). Gold Group
International has interests from property to Ann Summers, which is run by
daughter Jacqueline, 49. It is worth £120m. Proceeds from other businesses, such
as Gold Air International, which was sold in 2006, 50% of Sport Newspapers, sold
in 2007, and personal assets, including a Surrey mansion, take the Golds to
£360m.

2009: £300m, 178=

186= £360m £10m

Stephen Rubin and family Sports goods

Rubin, 72, runs Pentland, which has top brands such as Speedo, Berghaus and
Kickers in its stable. The London firm also has a £74.4m stake in JD Sports
Fashion, the sportswear retailer. Rubin's coup was to buy a 55.5% stake in
Reebok in 1981 for £50,000. A decade later he sold up for £400m. Pentland, which
is owned by Rubin and family trusts, made £40m profit on £1 billion sales in
2008. It is worth £340m and there are other assets. Rubin is a generous charity
benefactor.

2009: £370m, 141=

188 £358m £70m

Hamish Ogston Business services

See panel on page 37

189 £352m £57m

Harold Tillman Fashion

Tillman, 64, and former Debenhams boss Belinda Earl (qv) bought Aquascutum, the
classic English clothing brand, last September for an undisclosed sum. They
already own Jaeger, which has more than 140 shops in Europe and others
worldwide. Tillman's 72% stake in the combined operation is worth £252m. He has
homes in London and Spain.

2009: £295m, 201=

190= £350m

Marlon Abela Inheritance and restaurants

Lebanese-born Abela, 34, runs restaurants in London, New York and Boston. He is
using a fortune acquired from the family food services group to build his
Mayfair-based empire, which includes private club Morton's and Marc Fine Wines.

2009: £350m, 146=

On two wings and a prayer

149 £464m £282m, 155%

Naresh Goyal and family Airline

Goyal, 59, is afraid of flying, so each time he commutes between Mumbai and
London - where his family lives - he prays before takeoff. Happily for the
founder and chairman of India's Jet Airways, other people have more faith in
flying, helping it to become the preferred operator for business travellers. It
is easy to see the airline's appeal. First-class passengers fly in luxury:
private suites offer a fully reclining bed with duck-down duvet, television, a
wardrobe and meals served on hand-painted porcelain plates. Goyal founded what
has become India's largest private airline in 1974, as a consultancy and
advisory service. But in 1991, with India adopting an open skies policy, Goyal
set up his own airline. The inaugural flight took place in 1993. The journey has
not been without turbulence. In October 2008 Goyal decided against laying off
hundreds of jobs. He said he couldn't bear to "see tears in their eyes". To
bolster the company, Goyal forged an alliance between Jet Airways and rival
Kingfisher, chaired by Vijay Mallya. Last September hundreds of pilots called in
sick to protest against the dismissal of two colleagues who wanted to set up a
union. By the end of the year, the airline was recovering, recruiting and
planning aircraft purchases. Goyal has an 80% stake in Jet Airways, which is
valued at £567m on the Indian stock market. His stake is worth £454m. We add
£10m for other assets.

2009: £182m, 307=

190= £350m £47m

Gert-Rudolf and Friedrich Christian Flick Car sales

The German brothers, known respectively as Muck, 66, and Mick, 65, banked £300m
in 1976 for the Mercedes-Benz stake they inherited. Muck is a lover of fine art
and has published two books on the subject. He and his brother, both resident in
London, have had costly divorces. We go with their £350m valuation in the 2009
German rich list from Manager magazine .

2009: £397m, 134

190= £350m £50m

Simon Fuller Entertainment

Fuller recruited multi-millionpound stars such as David and Victoria Beckham
(qv) to 19 Entertainment, the management company that is also a television and
music producer with hits such as American Idol. He sold 19 to CKX, a New York
company, in 2005 in a £100m deal. He stayed on as an adviser but has a new
venture, XIX. The 49-yearold, raised in Sussex, owns all of the £100m XIX. His
CKX stake, property and personal investment lift him £50m this year.

2009: £300m, 178=

190= £350m £100m

Kevin and Michael Lagan Construction

The brothers have grown their father's Belfast building group into an
international concern. We can see about £30m profit on £370m sales in 2007-08
for Lagan firms, which had £164m net assets. The prime quarry assets had a
potential sale price of more than £200m at the height of the boom, but on
current figures we reckon Kevin, 60, and Michael, 54, are worth £350m.

2009: £250m, 22=

190= £350m £30m

Toni Mascolo and family Hairdressing

Mascolo, 67, runs the UK side of the Toni & Guy hairdressing empire, worth
£100m. He wanted to be a lawyer but followed the family tradition, opening a
salon in Clapham with one of his brothers, Guy, in 1963. The chain has more than
230 salons in the UK and 175 overseas. Mascolo's other interests include a
television company. We add £200m for the 2009 sale of the Tigi hair product
operation and £50m for salaries, dividends and assets.

2009: £320m, 167=

190= £350m

Steve Morgan Property

Morgan paid a mere £10 for Wolverhampton Wanderers in 2007, promising to invest
£30m. His reward has been Premier League football this season. Morgan's fortune
comes from the housebuilder Redrow. He made £240m before tax from share sales
there and had a £100m stake in the De Vere leisure group. He returned to Redrow
as chairman last year, almost a decade after leaving, and has a £65m stake.

2009: £350m, 146=

190= £350m £50m

Stefan Olsson Shipping

Olsson, 61, is a Swede based in London. His wealth derives from Stena Group,
founded in 1939 by his grandfather. It traded in metals and minerals before
diversifying into shipping. Today, it is known for its ferry business. The
Swedish business magazine Veckans Affarer put Olsson's worth at £534m in its
last rich list but, with shipping values reduced, we believe that figure is too
high.

2009: £300m, 178=

190= £350m £50m

Nicholas Roditi Finance

The potential £1 billion-plus flotation of online grocery group Ocado would
produce a windfall for Roditi, 64, whose stake could be worth more than £50m.
His London businesses include PGI Group, which encompasses food production in
Africa and property in Russia, and Belvedere Investment Partners, focused on
Asian assets. Roditi owns at least 1.5% of Russian energy company UES.

2009: £300m, 178=

190= £350m

Ramesh and Pratibha Sachdev Nursing homes

Ramesh, 64, is building his third nursing home business and has 11 sites with
more than 1,100 beds. He started his first Life Style Care operation in 1987,
selling the company in 1998 but keeping the name. The second was sold in 2007,
when he kept the freehold property. Charity donations by Sachdev and wife
Pratibha, 62, total £2m in the past year .

2009: £350m, 146=

190= £350m £70m

Stephen Vernon Property

Green Property, headed by Vernon, 60, has been in talks about taking over an
£833m portfolio owned by Anglo Irish Bank. Vernon, a chartered surveyor, joined
Dublin-based Green in 1993 and has since built his stake up to 32%. The firm's
strong portfolio was valued at £1.2 billion at its peak. In the year to June
2008, Green showed net assets of £392m.

2009: £280m, 207=

200 £345m £70ms

John Bloor Construction and motorcycles

Triumph, the Leicestershire motorbike manufacturer, has had a renaissance under
Bloor, 66. In 2009 it captured 13% of the British market, overtaking Kawasaki.
Before buying Triumph in 1983, he turned Bloor Holdings into a leading
housebuilder. Bloor owns all of Triumph and we add £25m for salaries, dividends
and assets.

2009: £275m, 211=

201 £344m £204m

Simon Nixon Internet

The co-founder of Chester-based Moneysupermarket stood down as chief executive
in 2008 but still has a £194m stake. Nixon, 42, runs a travel site and holiday
homes operation. We add £150m for share sales, dividends and property .

2009: £140m, 388=

202 £339m New entry

Albert Heijn and family Supermarkets

Left Bank Village, a riverside retail and leisure centre in Hereford, was sold
by 83-year-old Heijn in 2007. It had been on the market for about £4m. Heijn, a
Dutchman who lives in the area, has a stake in the supermarket group Ahold,
which was founded by his grandfather. The Heijn family fortune is on the up,
according to the Quote 500 Dutch rich list in 2009, which gives a total value of
£339m.

203 £332m £67m

Sir Douglas Myers Brewing and technology

Myers, 71, was knighted in New Zealand's new year honours list. Reckoned to be
the 15th richest Kiwi, London-based Myers made his fortune as head of the
Campbell and Ehrenfried drinks operation. He sold his 16% stake in 1998. Three
years ago, he was involved in a takeover of software firm Talgentra. Even after
hefty donations to the arts, his fortune is at least £332m, according to
National Business Review's 2009 rich list.

2009: £265m, 215= 204= £330m

Sir John and Peter Beckwith Property

London tycoons Sir John, 63, and brother Peter, 65, made their fortunes in
theatres, hotels and property, notably London's Centre Point, which was sold in
2005. Sir John's Pacific Investments and Red River Capital have stakes in
everything from warehouses in Asia to City property. Taking into account hotels
in France and investment in a fashion agency, we stick with a £330m valuation .

2009: £330m, 156=

204= £330m £120m

2009: £397m, 134

190= £350m

£50m

The Mackie family Electrical goods CEF Holdings saw profits fall from

£11.6m to £3.6m in 2007-08, with net assets down sharply to £31m. The electrical
wholesaler, which has its headquarters in Warwickshire, is owned via trusts by
the Swiss-based Mackie family. In the 2009 Swiss rich list, Bilan put the family
at £592m on the back of growing Middle Eastern business, but with profits down
we value the operation at just over £100m and the family at £330m.

2009: £450m, 14= 204= £330m New entry David Richwhite Finance The banker made
his fortune in his native New Zealand when, with Sir Michael Fay, he was
involved in state asset sales through their company Fay Richwhite. They have
been partners since 1975 and by the early 1990s were each worth £100m.
Richwhite, 61, is now based in London and Fay in Geneva. Richwhite has been in
New Zealand's National Business Review rich list for some years. He was valued
at £330m in 2009.

204= £330m

Nat Rothschild Finance Atticus Capital, the hedge fund co-chaired by Rothschild,
closed two funds last year and returned £1.8 billion to investors after a tough
time in the markets. The 38-year-old has not lost his investment appetite,
reportedly buying $40m of bonds in commodities group Glencore. His holdings
include a £42m stake in RIT Capital Partners and he has homes in London and
overseas.

2009: £330m, 156= 204= £330m Jasminder Singh and family Hotels Singh's Edwardian
Group saw profits fall in 2008 from

£14.7m to £3.3m. It runs 13 Radisson Edwardian hotels in London and Manchester.
Singh, 59, was an accountant before going into the hotel business with an uncle
.

2009: £330m, 156= 204= £330m

£215m

Ian Suttie Oil Suttie's Aberdeen-based First Oil runs 13 fields in the North
Sea. In 2008-09, profits soared to £13.5m and at current oil prices it is worth
£250m. The 64-yearold's other operation, Nautronix, and property interests add
£80m.

2009: £115m, 474= 204= £330m

£118m

John Woodward Caravans and property Woodward has won approval for a 130-acre
industrial park beside the M18. He is developing Woody's Adventure World and
owns 20 caravan parks through Blue Anchor Leisure. The 67-year-old has homes in
Doncaster, London, and France.

2009: £212m, 264 211= £325m Sir Martyn Arbib and family Finance
Oxfordshire-based Arbib, 70, made about £413m from Perpetual, his fund manager,
in 2000. He invested in digital advertising firm Litelogic and, though better
known as a lover of the turf, joined a consortium that took over Swindon Town
football club in 2008 .

2009: £325m, 166 211= £325m

£175m

Navin and Varsha Engineer Pharmaceuticals Navin, 58, and wife Varsha, 55, should
see profits of £11m in 2009-10 for Chemidex, the Surrey-based pharmaceuticals
firm, and a smaller operation. The debt-free group is worth £300m. There is £25m
in property and assets.

2009: £150m, 362= 211= £325m

£25m

Laurence Kirschel Property Kirschel, 47, owns lucrative chunks of London,
including in the Tottenham Court Road area where the Crossrail transport project
is making an impact. We can see £204m net assets for his Consolidated
Developments and smaller operations. That total does not include Soho sites
owned by Kirschel, a Hampstead resident.

2009: £300m, 178= 214= £320m

Duncan Bannatyne Fitness clubs and hotels Dragons' Den star Bannatyne narrowly
missed the Haiti earthquake, and has pledged to invest there. The Clydebank-born
tycoon, 61, operates health clubs, hotels and spas through his Darlington-based
Bannatyne Group. In 2008, profits rose to £12.5m on £93m sales. Other assets
include a villa in France.

2009: £320m, 167= 214= £320m

£95m

John Cook and family Leisure Business is booming at the caravan park and Butlins
owner Bourne Leisure, as more Britons holiday at home. In 2008, it made £56m
profit. Cook, 65, co-founded the Hertfordshire business and has a £300m stake.
We add £20m for other interests, salaries and dividends .

2009: £225m, 247=

214= £320m

John Duffield and family Finance Duffield launched Brompton Asset Management
last year after his old operation, New Star Asset Management, was taken over in
a £115m deal. He cut his teeth with Jupiter Asset Management. Share sales and
other assets keep him on £320m.

2009: £320m, 167= 214= £320m

£20m

Bob Edmiston Car sales and property Edmiston, 64, makes the top 10 of our Giving
List again, with at least £37m given to and by his charity, Christian Vision.
Since 1998, he has donated more than £120m. He built IM Group, the £100m car
importer, and IM Properties, worth £200m. Other interests add £20m.

2009: £300m, 178= 214= £320m

£20m

Harry Hyam

Property Hyams, 82, developed London landmark Centre Point in the 1960s and is
still working in property. Burglars took what was said in court to be the finest
ever barometer in a multi-millionpound raid on his Wiltshire home.

2009: £300m, 178= 214= £320m

£25m

Michael Oglesby and family Property Oglesby, who began as an apprentice plumber,
founded Manchester's Bruntwood Property Group. The share structure is complex
but we value the business at £300m and add £20m to the family for smaller
operations and other assets.

2009: £295m, 201=

Customer care at full throttle

188 £358m

£70m, 16%t CPP Group, which offers customers protection for lost credit cards,
keys and mobile phones, floated last month, valued at £396m. The flotation
netted £120m for 61-year-old founder Ogston, inset. The son of a dental surgeon,
he joined the Norwegian merchant navy aged 17 and worked his way around the
world, his father giving him

£50 as he departed from London's Euston station. A vintage car enthusiast,
Ogston, pictured driving his PETER JOHNSON Hamish Ogston Business services 1921
Deemster Brooklands last year, tried his hand at a number of business ventures
after graduating from university before setting up CPP with an initial
investment of £1,000 in 1980. The York group provides services to more than 11m
customers worldwide despite struggling badly in its first decade of operation,
with losses every year from 1980 until 1990. In 2008, CPP made £25.2m profit on
£259.5m sales. In 2009-10, turnover is expected to reach about £300m. Ogston
retained a stake worth £277m after it was floated. Share sale proceeds and other
assets take his wealth to £358m. Last year he donated more than £1.5m to
charity, chiefly to conservation and education causes.

2009: £428m, 127

214= £320m

£45m

Karl-Johan Persson Fashion Hennes & Mauritz, Europe's largest fashion retailer,
made Persson its chief executive last year. His father Stefan, the chairman, is
estimated by Forbes to have a £14.6 billion fortune. Persson, 35, is based in
London, where he has a number of directorships.

2009: £275m, 211=

214= £320m

£20m

Peter Smedvig and family Shipping and oil and gas services Scion of a line of
Norwegian seafarers, London-based Smedvig, 63, sold the family business in 1995.
He built up Smedvig Tankships as a leading supplier of rigs for oil and gas
exploration. In 2005, the family sold its operations for more than £388m. Other
interests include a £20m investment in oil explorer Endeavour.

2009: £300m, 178= 214= £320m

£120m

Douw Steyn and family Insurance Steyn, 57, is based in Britain, having left
South Africa to launch his insurance operation here in 1992. Peterborough-based
BGL Group, formerly the Budget Group, is best known for its meerkat adverts and
has 2.2m customers. The Steyn family has a stake in BGL's Guernsey parent valued
at £270m. Dividends and assets, including stakes in a South African insurer, put
the family on £320m.

2009: £200m, 274= 214= £320m

£20m

Charlotte Townshend Property Townshend, 55, has 20 choice acres around London's
Holland Park and 15,000 acres in Dorset, where she lives. A further 3,000 acres
in Nottinghamshire were reportedly sold for £9m. With six farming and estate
companies, bloodstock and property, we raise our valuation of Townshend by £20m.

2009: £300m, 178= 214= £320m

£60m

Niklas Zennstrom Computers Zennstrom, 44, a keen yachtsman who won the Rolex
Fastnet race last year, has been reunited with online telecom firm Skype. The
London-based Swede was part of a consortium that bought back 70% of Skype from
eBay in a $2 billion deal in November. Zennstrom held a £225m stake in Skype
when it was sold for £1.5 billion in 2005. On the back of Skype's success and
his Joost online TV service, we lift him by £60m.

2009: £260m, 218= 225 £315m Mark Getty and family Media, inheritance and oil
Grandson of the celebrated oil tycoon, Getty, 49, co-founded the world's largest
photo library, Getty Images, in 1995. It was bought by a private equity firm two
years ago in a deal valuing the Seattle operation at £1 billion. London-based
Getty ploughed his £150m stake back into it. Other assets include £70m from the
sale of a holding in the Russian energy business Gazprom and Getty's share of
his father's estate.

2009: £315m, 174= 226 £310m

£9mt Lawrence Stroll Retailing London-based Canadian Stroll, 50, made £375m from
his investment in the Tommy Hilfiger fashion brand and Pepe Jeans. He also has a
stake in the New York label Michael Kors, which opened its first London outlet
in Bond Street last year. He co-owned the London jeweller Asprey & Garrard,
selling his stake in 2006. The 2009 Canadian Business rich list put Stroll's
fortune at £310m.

2009: £319m, 173 227 £302m

£1m

Peter Wilkinson Internet and software Wilkinson, 55, delisted Intechnology, his
IT services provider, in 2008 saying he could achieve greater shareholder value
as a private company. The Yorkshire technology tycoon founded Freeserve, a
pioneer of internet for the masses, and Planet Online. Share sales and property
assets are worth £210m, while Wilkinson's company stakes add £92m.

2009: £301m, 177 228 £301m

£19mt Ardeshir Naghshineh and family Property Targetfollow, the Norwich property
operation, was founded by Iranian-born Naghshineh in 1992. Its portfolio
includes the London tower block Centre Point. Seven companies owned by
Naghshineh and his family had £301m assets in 2008-09 .

2009: £320m, 167= 229= £300m New entry Jean-Raymond Boulle Diamonds
Mauritian-born Boulle, now a British citizen, started as a buyer for De Beers.
Diamond Fields Resources, which he co-founded, sold for £1.5 billion in 1996 and
he made £300m from his next company, Diamond Fields International. Today
Boulle's mining interests include an £11.5m stake in London-quoted Titanium
Resources Group.

229= £300m

£10m

Stephen Butt Finance Silchester Investors International saw profits down
slightly at £27.8m in 2008-09 on £76m turnover. Butt, 59, owns half of the
London finance business, which he set up after leaving Morgan Stanley. We value
his stake at £225m with salaries and dividends adding to his wealth.

2009: £290m, 204= 229= £300m

£30mt Nicholas and Christian Candy Property See panel opposite 229= £300m New
entry Bruce Craig Pharmaceuticals As a boy, Craig missed out on an England
schools rugby trial because of a broken leg. His love of the sport continues,
and he has just bought Bath rugby club from long-time owner Andrew Brownsword
(qv). The price was not disclosed but Craig, 47, has money in the bank. He sold
Marken, a pharmaceutical logistics firm, in December to a private equity buyer
for a reported £975m and received at least £300m for his stake .

229= £300m

£260m Philip Day Retailing Upmarket clothing chain Edinburgh Woollen Mill, based
in the Borders, should make £30m profit in 2009-10. It has more than 400 outlets
nationwide and is expanding into homeware. Day, 44, owns the company, which is
worth at least £250m. Property and other interests add £50m.

2009: £40m, 1,348= 229= £300m Lady Annabel Goldsmith and family Finance
Goldsmith, 75, is the daughter of the 8th Marquess of Londonderry and the widow
of financier Sir James Goldsmith, who died in 1997. His fortune was said to have
been at least £1.2 billion. London-based Lady Annabel and her family got £300m.

2009: £300m, 178= 229= £300m

£90m

Michael Hintze Finance London-based hedge fund CQS was started by Australian
Hintze, 56, a prominent backer of the Conservative party. He has established the
Hintze Family Charitable Foundation, supporting projects ranging from theatre
and hospitals to churches and schools.

2009: £210m, 265= 229= £300m

£25m

Anthony Lyons Property In February, Lyons, 42, had a second windfall when
Liberty International took full ownership of Earls Court and Olympia - in 2007,
Lyons and his partners sold half to Liberty in a deal that valued it at £380m.
London's O2 centre was recently sold by Lyons and his partners for a 36% profit
in a year.

2009: £275m, 211= 229= £300m

£100m

Paul Marshall Finance Marshall, 50, co-founded the Marshall Wace hedge fund with
Ian Wace (qv). We value it at £400m, with his stake worth £200m. Company payouts
add to his total.

2009: £200m, 274= 229= £300m The Duke of Northumberland Land and art
Northumberland Estates controls 120,000 acres of land. One of the more pressing
needs for the duke, 53, is to find cash for restoration work at his ancestral
seat, Alnwick Castle. He has a £150m art collection and also owns Syon Park,
which is the family's London home, land in Scotland and the 3,000-acre Albury
estate in Surrey.

2009: £300m, 178= 229= £300m Ali Sarikhani Business services Iranian-born
Sarikhani, 64, formed the London-based Chiltern Group, one of the UK's leading
independent professional services groups. He sold its profitable tax planning
operation, WJB Chiltern, in 2003 for a reputed £40m.

2009: £300m, 178= 229= £300m

£100m

Ian Wace Finance Wace, 47, co-founded the Marshall Wace hedge fund operation in
1997 with Paul Marshall (qv). The company is worth £400m and Wace's stake is
£200m. He has also benefited from company payouts. Wace was one of the founders
of the children's charity Absolute Return for Kids and a founder trustee of the
charity Every Child a Chance.

2009: £200m, 274= 241 £297m

£93m

Crispin Odey and Nichola Pease Finance Hedge fund manager Odey, 51, paid himself
£30.4m in 2008-09 after his firm made a fortune betting on the near collapse of
the UK banking system. Londonbased Odey Asset Management is valued at £250m and
Odey and his wife, Pease, 49, hold an 89.4% stake. Pease is chief executive of
JO Hambro Capital Management, where she has a £13m stake. Our total includes
£60m for Odey's salaries and dividends .

2009: £204m, 272= 242 £296m

£46m

Sam Morrison Property Morrison, 58, runs the property business Corbo, which
showed £296.5m of net assets in 2008-09. He has been largely responsible for
changing the look of the retail centre around Boucher Road in Belfast and has
other shopping centres.

2009: £250m, 22= 243 £295m

£1m

Sir Michael Smurfit and family Packaging and property Smurfit, 73, has a new
yacht - the £45m, 213ft Lady Ann Magee II. His remaining stake in Smurfit Kappa,
the Dublin-based integrated packaging giant, is worth £70m. Smurfit's assets
include a £40m art collection and investments in a number of private Irish
firms. He is a resident of Monaco.

2009: £294m, 203 244 £292m

£2m

Andrew Davis Hotels and aviation Davis, 46, owns 31 luxury hotels through his
Von Essen company in Britain and one in France. He will soon open the 70-room
Hotel Verta at London Heliport in Battersea. Other interests include a property
investment company, a stake in London Heliport, a fine arts business and West
Country farm.

2009: £290m, 204= 245= £290m

£80mt Bhikhu and Vijay Patel Pharmaceuticals With the help of his brother,
pharmacist Vijay has transformed his small chain of Essex chemists, Waymade
Healthcare, into an international medicines operation. Vijay, 60, and Bhikhu,
62, above, own all the £200m business and have other assets.

2009: £370m, 141= 245= £290m

£20m

The Queen Head of state See panel opposite 247 £285m

£65mt Sir Rocco Forte, Olga Polizzi and family Hotels Forte, 65, had talks with
Lloyds Banking Group about £300m of loans to his RF Hotels and a joint venture.
Crucially, the loan term

were extended. The main holding company, Rocco Forte & Family, had £61m net
assets in 2008-09. We cut the family by £65m, taking into account hotels owned
by his sister, Polizzi, 64.

2009: £350m, 146= 248 £280m

£20mt Johan Eliasch Sports equipment Falling sales have hit Head, the sports
goods manufacturer, and Eliasch, the chief executive, has guaranteed funding for
the company. He grew up in a wealthy Swedish family and will inherit a fortune
when he reaches 50, in 2012. Business success and share sales have already made
him a multi-millionaire, with homes in London and Marrakesh. He co-founded the
charity Cool Earth to protect rainforests.

2009: £300m, 178= 249 £270m

£85m

Tony Langley Engineering Nottinghamshire-based Langley, 55, has grown the
engineering firm he started in 1976 into a multinational with more than 2,300
staff. He owns all of the £250m Langley Holdings and we add £20m for other
wealth.

2009: £185m, 304= 250 £266m

£16mt William Ives and family Steel and property The man of steel is supporting
The Iron, as Scunthorpe United FC are nicknamed. Ives, founder of Rainham Steel,
one of the town's big employers, signed a three-year sponsorship deal last year.
The 66-year-old and family trusts own the £120m steel operation. Property
companies and other assets put their total at £266m.

2009: £282m, 206

Year crowned by rising wealth

245= £290m

£20m, 7%

The Queen Head of state When the occasion demands, as at the state opening of
parliament, nobody does pomp and circumstance like the Queen. But the sight of
her catching a scheduled First Capital Connect train last December, from London
King's Cross to King's Lynn en route to Sandringham, was a sign of the times. As
well as conveying a green message of which her son Charles would approve
(there's also a fleet of royal cars that runs on liquefied petroleum gas), the
£44.40 first-class trip was a bargain compared with the cost of the royal train.
The 84-year-old monarch has a backlog of expensive repairs to fund at Buckingham
Palace, Windsor and other properties. Last year's Royal Public Finances report
showed the head of state cost the taxpayer £41.5m, or 69p per head over the
year, and Sir Alan Reid, Keeper of the Privy Purse, noted that the royal
household was paying continuous attention to "obtaining the best value for money
in all areas of expenditure". Cost-cutting aside, the Queen's wealth has stood
up well to recent economic turbulence, with the value of her investment
portfolio, which is made up largely of shares in blue-chip British companies,
rising to an estimated £90m. Properties such as Sandringham and Balmoral, and
the royal stud, are valued at £110m. We exclude the royal art collection and the
Crown Estate (together worth about £16 billion)

from our calculations, but the Queen's jewellery, cars, horses and paintings,
and the Queen Mother's legacy, lift her to £290m.

2009: £270m, 214

£20m price tag for slice of park life 229= £300m

£30m, 9%

Nicholas and Christian Candy Property One Hyde Park, London's most expensive
residential scheme, is the brainchild of the Candy brothers. It was officially
launched this month when vetted and personally invited interested parties viewed
the show apartment for the first time. The flats are said to have bulletproof
windows as well as a cinema, and the average price will be £20m.

Wedding bells are in the air for 35-yearold Christian, who is to marry former
"It Girl" Emily Crompton. The couple, right, are planning a wedding in Monaco,
where both brothers live. Nicholas, 37, inset, also has a glamorous squeeze in
Holly Valance, the Australian model, actress and singer. The brothers are
motoring aficionados and have doubles of each car in their garages, including
two Rolls-Royces and two Ferraris. They have just the one helicopter, however.
They were recently valued at £750m by the corporate finance chief at their
Guernseybased CPC operation. The Candys are battling the Qatari royal family in
the courts over the Chelsea Barracks development they jointly acquired for £959m
in 2007. They also face legal challenges relating to a $356m loan for a Beverly
Hills development. Until we see progress here and at One Hyde Park, we
cautiously cut them back by £30m.

2009: £330m, 156= 251= £265m

£57m

Lord Alliance and family Mail order and textiles Sales rose nearly 5% over the
Christmas period for N Brown, the home shopping group chaired by Alliance, 78,
who started out with Coats Viyella, once Britain's biggest textile company.
Manchester-based N Brown's share price recovered in 2009, putting the Alliance
family's stake at £265m.

2009: £208m, 267 251= £265m

£5m

Paul Ruddock Finance Tory party donor Ruddock, 51, co-founded the London hedge
fund Lansdowne Partners, in which he has a £200m stake. The firm is reportedly
paying Tony Blair a six-figure sum for a series of speeches. Ruddock, who has
other assets, is chairman of the V&A museum's trustees and helped fund its new
medieval and Renaissance galleries.

2009: £260m, 218= 253 £263m

£59m

Mike Danson Media Danson, 47, has a £34m stake in Progressive Digital Media, the
quoted London firm that owns the New Statesman magazine. The bulk of his fortune
comes from Datamonitor, the market research group, which was sold to Informa in
2007 .

2009: £204m, 272= 254 £262m

£80m

Sir Bernard Schreier and family Industry Austrian-born Schreier made a £51m gain
on currency fluctuations in 2008. The 92-year-old, who arrived in Britain in
1955, owns the Watford business CP Holdings and has a majority stake in
Danubius, a Hungarian hotel chain, and other interests.

2009: £182m, 307= 255= £260m

£10m

Michael and Xochi Birch Internet Michael Birch, from Hertfordshire, is working
with singer Julian Lennon on The Revolution, a firm that helps artists set up
their own businesses. Birch started the Bebo social networking site in 2005 with
his American wife, Xochi, 38, and brother. They made £260m when AOL bought Bebo
in 2008. Birch, 39, a generous donor to charities, is unaffected by AOL's recent
decision to close Bebo.

2009: £250m, 22= 255= £260m

£100m

Peter Hambro and family Mining and finance Petropavlovsk is the new name for
Peter Hambro Mining, rebranded late last year to reflect the fact that its gold
mines are in Russia. London-based Hambro, 65, who made about £93m from the sale
in 2008 of the Russian Expobank to Barclays, has a £60m stake in Petropavlovsk,
shares in the Russian Timber Group and other assets.

2009: £160m, 350= 255= £260m Steven Heinz Finance Austrian Heinz, 47, has a
£200m stake in Lansdowne Partners, the Mayfair hedge fund business he co-founded
in 1998 with Paul Ruddock (qv), and other assets.

2009: £260m, 218= 255= £260m

£40m

David Hood Electronics and aviation Hood, 62, co-founder of television set-top
box maker Pace, saw profits soar 406% to £69.9m on sales up 52% at the Bradford
operation last year. The Yorkshire tycoon's stake in the firm is now worth £67m.
He also has an air charter operation and an 82% stake in online search group
Infoserve.

2009: £220m, 251= 259 £253m New entry David Slager Finance After attending
Haberdashers' Aske's school, Dutchman Slager, 37, went to Oxford. He worked for
Goldman Sachs before being recruited by Atticus Capital, the New York hedge fund
co-chaired by Nat Rothschild. In 2005, he made $450m, according to a survey of
hedge fund managers by Alpha magazine, and $150m the following year. Last year
two Atticus funds were closed but the $1.1 billion European fund, run by Slager,
continued in spite of a difficult 2008. Quote 500 valued London-based Slager at
£253m in its 2009 Dutch rich list. He helped to fund the David Slager Jewish
Student Centre at Oxford, which opened in 2006 .

260= £250m

£90m

Chris Dawson Retailing Dawson, 58, describes his staff as "heat-seeking
missiles", always looking for new opportunities. When Plymouth was snowbound in
January, 95% of his workers made it to work. Dawson knows how to tap into the
British love of a bargain: there are 40 of his Range discount stores around
Britain, with 10 more due to open this year. His portfolio includes a waste
management business, online sales, a shopfitting company, insurance, a low-cost
energy service and property in the south of France. He owns it all.

2009: £160m, 350= 260= £250m Dennis Gillings Pharmaceuticals Quintiles, the US
pharmaceuticalservices firm founded in 1982 by London-born Gillings, has global
revenues of about £2 billion. Gillings, 66 today, moved to the US as an academic
and has gifted millions to the University of North Carolina.

2009: £250m, 22= 260= £250m

£36m

Jonas Kamprad Retailing Habitat, the home furnishings chain founded by Sir
Terence Conran (qv), was sold last year by Ikea. London-based Kamprad, 44, is
one of the three sons of Ikea's Swedish founder. His fortune was put at £314m by
Veckans Affarer's Swedish rich list but we are cautious.

2009: £214m, 261= 260= £250m

£50m

Brian Kennedy Home improvements Kennedy, 50, owns Sale Sharks rugby club and has
built a home improvements empire, including Weatherseal Windows. He had been
supporting Kate and Gerry McCann's search for their daughter Madeleine, who went
missing from a Portuguese holiday apartment in 2007, but stopped last year,
citing costcutting.

2009: £300m, 178= 260= £250m

£25m

Alan Lewis Industry Lewis, 72, runs the London-based Hartley Investment Trust,
which owns J&J Crombie, Leeds maker of the classic eponymous overcoat. He also
owns land in Florida and Russia.

2009: £225m, 247= 260= £250m

£70m

James and John Martin and family Ejection seats Martin-Baker in Buckinghamshire
is the world's oldest maker of ejection seats for jets. The £220m firm is run by
the twin sons, 67, of the founder. They have other assets.

2009: £180m, 309= 260= £250m

New entry Andreas Panayiotou Property Panayiotou's Cypriot mother advised him to
choose business instead of a boxing career. It was a good call. The Londoner,
44, sold a £205m chunk of his residential property portfolio just before the
credit crunch and is now investing heavily in hotels. His Ability Developments
showed £112m net assets in 2008. The accounts of his other firm

remain private, so we value him cautiously at £250m.

260= £250m

The Marquess of Salisbury Property and art The 7th marquess, 63, hosted talks
about an election link-up between the Conservative party and Northern Ireland's
Unionists in January at Hatfield House, his historic Hertfordshire estate. The
family also has a Dorset estate, land around Leicester Square in London and in
America and a treasure trove of hugely valuable artworks.

2009: £250m, 22=

Making the right moves 287= £220m

£63m, 40%

Peter Jones Mobile phones

Jones, 44, tripped the light fantastic in the Sport Relief Strictly Come Dancing
special, pitting his tango against the cha-cha-cha of Duncan Bannatyne (qv).
Jones started a tennis coaching business at 16 and at the age of 28 was running
Siemens Nixdorf's UK business. In 1998 he set up Phones International, the
wireless and mobile services provider now worth £150m. His work on Dragons' Den,
the BBC's entrepreneur talent show, has seen his profile soar. His
Buckinghamshire-based Phones International turned in a £5.7m profit on £167.1m
sales in 2008-09. He also has an £18m stake in the high-tech retailer Expansys
and says all his businesses are debtfree.

Jones's main home, in Buckinghamshire, is worth £20m and he has other property
overseas.

2009: £157m, 359= 260= £250m

£45m

Tony Wilkinson and family Discount stores Nottinghamshire-based Wilkinson
Hardware Stores has 300 home and garden outlets in the UK. In 2008, its profits
fell from

£50.3m to £29.4m, though sales rose to a record £1.45 billion. We value the
business, owned by Wilkinson, 73, and his family, at about £220m, to which we
add £30m for dividends .

2009: £205m, 268=

269= £245m

Michael Cannon Pubs and hamburgers Durham county council granted permission in
December for three tracks to be built on Wemmergill Moor in upper Teesdale,
allowing visitors better access to its grouse. Cannon, 71, bought the
17,000-acre estate in 2006. It's a new direction for the owner of the
Fuddruckers hamburger chain in the United States, who made his initial fortune
buying, refurbishing and selling several pub chains in the UK.

2009: £245m, 235= 269= £245m

£161m

Frank Timis Minerals, oil and gas London-based Timis, 46, from Romania, has a
stake in African Minerals worth £162m and founded European Goldfields in 2002.
Since then, he is believed to have sold shares in the firm worth about £100m. He
also has assets in oil and gas.

2009: £84m, 682= 271 £242m

£28m

Danny Fiszman Diamonds and football Fiszman, 65, who lives in Geneva, has been
leading the battle against a takeover of Arsenal, in which he has a 16.1% stake.
His main source of wealth is the Star Diamond Group, which deals in every aspect
of the diamond trade. He owns 91% of it.

2009: £214m, 261= 272= £240m Nigel Blackwell and family Media Blackwell, 63,
leads the family that owns the Oxford-based eponymous bookseller. We value the
business on its £23m net assets, add £222m to the family's wealth for other
assets, including proceeds from the sale in 2006 of its separate Blackwell
Publishing operation, and deduct £5m for a donation in 2008 by Blackwell's uncle
Toby to Oxford's Bodleian Library.

2009: £240m, 237 272= £240m

£5m

Mark Burnett and Roma Downey Television Rock'n'roll Fantasy Camp, due to be
screened on the VH1 Classic channel in America in July, is the latest reality TV
show to emerge from Mark Burnett Productions, based in Hollywood. Essex-born
Burnett, 49, owns the £215m firm and has other assets worth £15m. In 2007, he
married Irish actress Downey, 49. We add £10m for her wealth.

2009: £235m, 238= 272= £240m

£20m

Lord Iliffe and family Media Yattendon Investment Trust, the Iliffe family's
Berkshire company, owns 40 local newspapers and Channel TV, plus property and
marina interests. We value the family, led by Iliffe, 65, at £240m.

2009: £220m, 251= 272= £240m

£60m

Harpal Matharu and family Property and hotels The Matharu brothers, Raj, Tony
and Harpal, 53, began turning empty offices into hotels in the 1980s. Net assets
at their Globalgrange company in London grew from

£224.4m to £267.2m in 2008-09. They take little out of the firm.

2009: £180m, 309= 272= £240m New entry Lance Uggla Finance Canadian bond trader
Uggla, 48, co-founded the financial data provider Markit in Hertfordshire in
2001. It is 70% owned by banks, employs about 1,400 people and has offices
worldwide. Recent press reports put a £3 billion valuation on the business.
Chief executive Uggla's 8% stake is worth £240m.

277 £238m

£98m

Anthony Green and family Soap Swine flu fears last year led to soaring sales of
anti-bacterial products and a 67% share price rise at soapmaker PZ Cussons.
Chairman Green, 59, leads one of the Manchester firm's founding families.

2009: £140m, 388= 278 £235m

£3m

Edward Atkin and family Babycare products Atkin's fortune comes from Cannon
Avent, the Suffolk-based babycare business founded by his father, which he built
up and sold in 2005, netting about £212m after tax for the family's stake. The
65-year-old has other assets.

2009: £232m, 242 279= £234m

£94m

Surinder Arora and family Hotels Arora Holdings' net assets rose to £227m in
2008-09 on the back of the new Sofitel at Heathrow's Terminal 5, which won a
"best new business hotel in the world" award last year. The operation is owned
by its founder, Arora, 51, his wife, Sunita, and family trusts. The Surrey
couple have other assets.

2009: £140m, 388= 279= £234m

£36m

Cristina Stenbeck Media London-based Stenbeck, 32, was named one of the world's
50 most powerful businesswomen by the Financial Times in September. She chairs
Kinnevik, the family empire, which includes Metro newspapers, telecom operator
Tele2 and renewable energy businesses .

2009: £198m, 289 281= £230m Vikrant Bhargava Internet gambling SocialGO, which
helps build social networking sites, is the latest start-up to be backed by
Veddis Ventures, an investment company founded by Bhargava, 37. The former
electrical engineer, based in Gibraltar, made his first fortune with online
casino Party Gaming.

2009: £230m, 243= 281= £230m Ray O'Rourke and family Construction Irish-born
O'Rourke, 63, joined the board of mining organisation Anglo American in
December. He founded the £200m Kent-based building group Laing O'Rourke in 1977.
We add £30m for other assets.

2009: £230m, 243= 281= £230m Hugh Osmond Pubs and insurance Horizon Acquisition
Company, Osmond's new venture, raised more than £400m to spend on distressed
businesses when it floated in London in February. Past lucrative ventures
include Punch Taverns and the Spirit Group. Osmond, 48, also has a stake in the
insurer Pearl.

2009: £230m, 243= 281= £230m Sir Paul and Lady Smith Fashion Smith, 63, has a
stake in his own Nottingham-based worldwide fashion brand worth £150m. A share
sale by his wife, Pauline, 69, and other assets put the pair on £230m.

2009: £230m, 243= 285= £225m Alexander Hoare and family Finance The historic C
Hoare & Co bank in Fleet Street is owned by Hoare, 48, and his family. We value
it at £200m and add £25m for other interests.

2009: £225m, 247= 285= £225m Sir Stanley and Peter Thomas Property and transport
Sir Stanley, 68, is building an £8m golf course near Cardiff. He and his brother
Peter, 66, made their fortune with Peter's Pies, the family business, before
buying property and airports via the TBI group, which they sold in 2004, netting
£106m. They have other wealth.

2009: £225m, 247=

287= £220m

£20m

Manny Davidson and family Property The Manny Davidson Trust bought a parade of
Guildford shops for £13.5m in December. However, Davidson, 79, based in London,
lost his right-hand man when Jonathan Rose joined the William Pears Group as its
property director. The family's assets include Fungo, a property company .

2009: £200m, 274= 287= £220m

£63m

Peter Jones Mobile phones See panel on page 41 287= £220m Paul Newey Finance
Newey, 41, sold his Staffordshirebased loan and mortgage group, Ocean Finance,
to AIG in 2006 for an undisclosed sum reckoned to have been about £200m. We add
£20m to his wealth for other assets.

2009: £220m, 251= 287= £220m Gerard O'Hare Property O'Hare, 52, was awarded a
CBE in the new year's honours list for services to higher education and
regeneration. The entrepreneur says he is not making a penny from the huge
queues of shoppers coming across the Irish border to shop at his Quays shopping
centre in Newry - it is his tenants who are raking in the cash. His Newry-based
Parker Green International owns land in New Jersey, a shopping mall in
Connecticut and assets in central and eastern Europe. He is a visiting professor
at the University of Ulster, where he has endowed a chair of property
development and design.

2009: £220m, 251= 287= £220m Josie Rowland and family Inheritance Rowland, 66,
chairs Anderson & Sheppard, London tailor to the rich and famous, but is better
known as the widow of Tiny Rowland, one of the great business buccaneers of the
1970s. She inherited his fortune in 1998.

2009: £220m, 251= 287= £220m

£25m

Hugh Sloane Finance Profits at the London hedge fund Sloane Robinson fell from

£340.7m to just £61m in 2008-09. It still paid out £83.5m to its partners,
however. Sloane, 54, launched the business with George Robinson (qv)

in 1993. We believe that Sloane owns about 25% of it.

2009: £195m, 291= 348= £185m

£10m, 6% s Sir Elton John Music It's been a busy year for John, 63, whose career
shows no signs of playing itself out. This month, freshly listed as the seventh
most played artist of the past decade, he celebrated the fifth anniversary of
Billy Elliot, the stage show for which he wrote the songs, with 19 of the 22
actors who have played Billy at the Victoria Palace theatre in London. Asked
about the milestone, he said: "I feel very young and inspired." The show, a
10-time Tony award winner, is on a sellout US tour and opens in South Korea in
August. Days later, John entertained an audience of 6,000, who paid up to $800
each at a concert at the Mayan pyramids of Chichen Itza in Mexico. He and Lady
Gaga may duet on the theme song for the next Bond movie and he could replace
Simon Cowell (qv)

as a judge on Pop Idol. With nearly 100 gigs to his credit in 2009, he played
the last of his five-year Red Piano shows, at $750,000 a performance, at Caesars
Palace in Las Vegas, then promptly took the show to Moscow. He pocketed at least
£1m last year for appearing in the city at the birthday party of a Russian
oligarch's wife. John's prodigious work ethic goes in part to support his flower
and designer clothing habit, but he gives back. Gleeful shoppers this spring
swooped on his immaculate castoffs, donated to a Hove charity shop on behalf of
the Elton John Aids Foundation. Since 2004, the Giving List has tracked £180m of
donations by the star, and he spent his 63rd birthday in March improving Aids
awareness in South Africa. He regularly gives performances in aid of other
causes, notably breast cancer research and the Royal Academy of Music. Pollstar
reported takings of $88m from 31 dates with Billy Joel, and $14.2m from 25 solo
shows in North America last year, while three of his companies - William A Bong,
J Bondi and Happenstance - have paid John more than £223m in salary to date. Our
rock expert says his earnings came in at about £30m a year with his touring and
we raise him to £185m.

2009: £175m, 322= 287= £220m

£105m

Andrew Wates and family Construction Surrey-based Wates Group saw profits jump
by £10m to £47m in 2008. Wates, 69, who heads the family, retired as chairman in
2006. The firm, which worked on redevelopment of the Queen's Gallery at
Buckingham Palace, is worth £180m and there are other assets.

2009: £115m, 474=

294= £215m

£10m

Mike Clare Beds The founder of Buckinghamshire bed chain Dream

is launching a retailer of outsize clothing. Clare, 55, sold Dream

for £230m in 2008. He made £189m after tax, to which we add other assets and
£20m reinvested in the business .

2009: £205m, 268= 294= £215m

£20mt Damien Hirst Art Bristol-born Hirst's art suffered a steep fall in value
during 2009, but this will have done little to dent his fortune. In 2008, Hirst,
44, sold £111m of his artworks at Sotheby's. This followed a sale the previous
year that raised £130m. As well as owning studio space in London, he has a £3m
estate in Gloucestershire. We put Hirst at £215m allowing for tax.

2009: £235m, 238= 294= £215m Dionysios Liveras and family Food and yachts The
Anglo-Cypriot Liveras family's patriarch, Andreas, was murdered in the 2008
Mumbai terrorist attack. Now led by Dionysios, 51, the family netted £130m when
its Nottinghamshire firm, Laurens Patisseries, was taken over in 2006. There is
a thriving yacht charter business in Monaco and property .

2009: £215m, 260 294= £215m

£20m

George Robinson Finance Sloane Robinson, the London hedge fund, had a difficult
2008-09, making just £61m. Hugh Sloane (qv), a City fund manager, teamed up with
Robinson, 53, to launch Sloane Robinson Investment Management in 1994. We value
the business at £400m. Robinson has other wealth.

2009: £195m, 291= 298 £214m

£14m Greg Coffey Finance The high-flying 39-year-old hedge fund trader had a
prosperous 2009, with his Moore Emerging Markets fund up 18.3%. The Australian
made the GLG operation one of the star funds in London. In late 2008, he moved
to Louis Bacon's (qv)

Moore Capital. Coffey was valued at £214m in the 2009 Australian rich list.

2009: £200m, 274= 299 £213m

£20m

Geoffrey Kent Travel Monaco-based Kent, 67, is wooing wealthy Europeans to his
Abercrombie & Kent business. He received about £133m for selling a stake to
Intrawest, a Canadian tour group, in 2004 and his remaining share is worth £70m.
Assets such as property in Florida add £10m.

2009: £193m, 296 300= £210m

£60m

Robert Adair Oil, gas and property Melrose Resources, the Edinburgh oil
exploration group started by Adair, 53, is worth £355m. His stake is about £177m
and he also chairs Terrace Hill, a quoted property group.

2009: £150m, 362= 300= £210m

£60m

Lord Heseltine and family Publishing Heseltine, 77, has handed over the reins at
his Haymarket Publishing Group to his son, Rupert. It has increased profits and
we raise the company's value to £200m, adding £10m for other assets.

2009: £150m, 362= 300= £210m

£115m

The McAlpine family Construction Newarthill, the parent company of
construction-to-property group Sir Robert McAlpine, saw profits fall in 2008
from

£45.9m to £33m. We value the Hemel Hempstead-based business at £200m and past
dividends take the McAlpine family to £210m.

2009: £95m, 575= 300= £210m

£111m

Robert Rayne and family Property Quoted property group Derwent London is worth
nearly £1.3 billion and is chaired by Rayne, 61. The family's stake is valued at
£181m and there is also £26m in LMS Capital. The family is involved in charity
work through the Rayne Foundation .

2009: £99m, 566= 300= £210m

£110m

Jack Tordoff Car sales A much-improved performance in 2009 saw JCT 600,
Tordoff's motor trader, swing back to a £8.2m profit on £465m sales. Audi
dealerships were added to the Yorkshire firm's stable. Tordoff, 74, runs and
owns the £190m business with his family trusts.

2009: £100m, 540= 305 £209m

£4m Alastair and Michael Powell Cabling and property Established by brothers
Alastair, 57, and Michael, 52, Cleveland Cable distributes electrical cable in
Europe. Profits at the Middlesbrough company fell from

£27.2m to £6.1m in 2008-09 while a property operation, Cable Properties &
Investments, showed nearly £72m net assets.

2009: £205m, 268= 306 £207m

£12m Pierre Lagrange Finance Lagrange, 48, is a Belgian who has lived in London
for 20 years. A former Goldman Sachs trader, he co-founded the GLG hedge fund in
2000. Lagrange, who sold his Oxfordshire mansion for £12m last year, has a stake
worth £107m and we add £100m for other assets.

2009: £195m, 291= 307 £205m

£90m John Kirkland and family Construction Kirkland, 72, is chairman of Bowmer &
Kirkland, the Derbyshire construction group. In the year to August 2008, profits
rose by 18% to a record £43.2m. We value Bowmer & Kirkland at £180m and the
family has other interests.

2009: £115m, 474= 308 £201m

£21m Firoz Kassam Hotels Kassam, 55, owns the land on which London's Alexandra
Palace stands but has failed through his Firoka (Heythrop Park)

operation to redevelop the site as a hotel. The former owner of Oxford United
FC, he sold the club for £1. His hotel firm

have £141m net assets. Other interests and cash add £60m.

2009: £180m, 309= 309= £200m Martin Ainscough and family Cranes Founded in 1976,
Wigan-based Ainscough Crane Hire was sold in 2007 for £255m. Ainscough, 57, and
his family received about £230m for their stake. After tax, the family is worth
£200m.

2009: £200m, 274= 309= £200m David Babai Travel Babai, 67, netted about £251m
before tax in 2004 when he sold London-based Gullivers Travel Associates to the
Cendant travel group.

2009: £200m, 274= 309= £200m

£80mt Sir Michael Bishop Transport Bishop, 68, sold his majority stake in the
Midlands airline BMI to Lufthansa for £223m last year as a troubled merger was
completed. Allowing for tax on that payout and other assets, the former chairman
of BMI is worth £200m.

2009: £280m, 207= 309= £200m

£20mt Steve and Clive Boultbee Brooks Property The brothers, Steve, 49, and
Clive, 46, own Boultbee, the largest private owner of UK shopping centres. The
London-based operation has focused on the Nordic region of late, and in 2008
sold Helsinki's Kamppi shopping centre for about £390m.

2009: £220m, 251= 309= £200m

£20mt Sir Ronnie Cohen Finance Egyptian-born Cohen, 64, made his fortune with
Apax Partners, the London private equity group. His main work now is chairing
Bridges Ventures, which invests in deprived areas. With hefty charitable
donations taken into account, we lop £20m off Cohen's fortune .

2009: £220m, 251= 309= £200m Janet de Botton and family Art and inheritance De
Botton, 58, is one of Britain's top bridge players. She is the former wife of
Michael Green (qv)

and widow of Gilbert de Botton, the London-based Swiss financier who sold Global
Asset Management for £234m in 1999, a year before his death.

2009: £200m, 274= 309= £200m

£50m

Robert Earl Restaurants London-born Earl, 58, sold the Planet Hollywood Resort &
Casino in Las Vegas in February for an undisclosed sum. He retains the Planet
Hollywood restaurants in the United States, and is the main shareholder in
Everton FC.

2009: £150m, 362= 309= £200m Jayne Ellis Inheritance When Joe Bamford died in
2001, the Swiss-based founder of the JCB construction empire left his £200m
estate, and a stake in the firm, to Ellis, 64, his former secretary.

2009: £200m, 274= 309= £200m John Goulandris Shipping London-based Goulandris,
81, who dabbled with electric cars in the 1970s, is one of three Greek brothers
with a shipping empire. He has a £200m slice of the family fortune .

2009: £200m, 274= 309= £200m New entry Andy Hall Finance Hall, 58, is one of the
top oil traders on Wall Street. He joined Phibro and began betting that oil
would rise from a $30-a-barrel low point in 2003. He bailed out in 2008, just
before it hit a record $147, earning Citigroup, which had bought Phibro, $630m.
British-born Hall pocketed a $100m bonus last year .

309= £200m New entry James and Fitriani Hay Oil and horse racing Glasgow-born
Hay, 59, was a BP senior executive. The racing enthusiast and his wife,
Fitriani, own Dubai-based JMH Group. See panel on page 83.

309= £200m Colin Hill Property Originally from the East End of London, Hill, 55,
has been involved in many businesses including car repossession, financing and
leasing, aircraft salvage, property and timeshare. He owns property in Portugal
and Peterborough United FC's ground, as well as a Suffolk mansion .

2009: £200m, 274= 309= £200m

£50m

Barry Houghton Electronics Houghton, 62, took delivery in the summer of
Salperton IV, a 147ft yacht that cost more than £13m. It was named after his
English estate. Based in Switzerland, Houghton is a shrewd developer in the
high-end residential market, but initially made his money in electronics with
Rainford, which he sold for £80m.

2009: £150m, 362= 309= £200m New entry Nemir Kirdar Finance Kirdar, 73, left
Iraq in 1958 and subsequently launched Investcorp, the Bahrain-based venture
capital group. He now lives and works in central London.

309= £200m Arthur Landon Inheritance Landon, 28, top of our Young Rich List on
page 80, recently hosted a shooting party for Prince William and Kate Middleton.
His wealth comes from his late father, Tim, who was rewarded handsomely for his
role in the 1970 coup that deposed the Sultan of Oman.

2009: £200m, 274= 309= £200m

£50mt Sir John Madejski Publishing, property and football Madejski made £174m
from selling the Auto Trader publishing group in 1998. He owns a majority stake
in Sackville Properties, which is planning a £400m development next to Reading
station. Madejski, 68, chairs Reading FC and owns most of the club. Other
interests include a radio station, a hotel in the Galapagos Islands, a Chinese
bottling plant, and publishing and printing operations. He has helped the Royal
Academy of Arts, the Victoria and Albert Museum and Reading University, where he
is chancellor.

2009: £250m, 22=

Smart casual 354= £180m

£110m, 157%

Julian Dunkerton Fashion Street-chic hoodies are the staples of Dunkerton's
Superdry clothes label, as seen on the likes of David Beckham (qv)

and High School Musical's Zac Efron. A market float in March saw share prices in
the parent company SuperGroup soar, valuing it at £444m. Dunkerton's global
operation has its roots in Hereford, not generally in the league of Paris and
Milan but the nearest county town to where his former BBC producer father moved
to make organic cider in the 1980s. "Nobody there had access to the clothing I
had in London," Dunkerton, 45, said. At 19 he set up shop in Hereford, lugging
clothes by the bin-bagful from London. It was Margaret Thatcher's Enterprise
Allowance Scheme grant of £40 a week that got him to Cheltenham - where
SuperGroup is based - to start Cult Clothing from a market stall. SuperGroup has
40 stores in the UK, 17 of which opened last year, under the names Superdry and
Cult, and 54 concessions in House of Fraser. Designer James Holder (qv),
credited with the Superdry concept, and international sales head Theo Karpathios
(qv)

also received windfalls in the flotation. Dunkerton's holding is worth about
£147.5m and he made almost £50m more before tax from selling part of his
original stake.

2009: £70m, 793= 309= £ 200m Helly Nahmad Art Nahmad, 33, is a member of an art
dealing family reckoned to be the world's second largest after the Wildensteins.
He has Italian nationality but went to school in London. The family owns up to
5,000 art works, including 300 Picassos.

2009: £ 200m, 274= 309= £ 200m

£ 30m

The Shepherd family Construction The collapse of Wakefield's Trinity Walk retail
scheme contributed to the Shepherd Group's £ 1.5m loss on turnover of £ 697.5m
in the year to June 2009. Shepherd Building in York, the parent company, is
owned by the family. We value it at £ 180m and add £ 20m for past dividends .

2009: £ 170m, 33= 327 £ 199m

£ 4m Peter Harrison and family Computers Harrison, 72, bought and sold three
retail parks last year, making a £ 10m profit. He won't see a penny because it
was done on behalf of his Peter Harrison Foundation, which helps disabled and
disadvantaged people. Harrison, a chartered accountant from Cheshire, made his
fortune with Chernikeeff, a computernetwork integration firm he sold in 2000.

2009: £ 195m, 291= 328 £ 198m

£ 68m Lord Harris and family Carpets Harris, 67, and his family have a £ 135m
stake in Carpetright, the floor covering chain he founded, based in Essex. Other
assets include a £ 5m stake in Arsenal FC. Harris, a backer of the Tories, has
given £ 100m to charity over the years.

2009: £ 130m, 406= 329 £ 196m

£ 4m David Mabey and family Construction Reading-based Mabey Holdings, owned by
the 48-year-old and his family, has 13 subsidiaries. One, Mabey Bridge, plans a
£38m expansion that would make it the biggest UK manufacturer of wind turbine
towers. Last year another, Mabey & Johnson, was fined £ 3.5m for breaching UN
sanctions against Iraq and bribing foreign officials.

2009: £ 200m, 274= 330= £ 195m

£ 29m Michael Gooch Finance Essex-born Gooch, 51, founded GFI Group, the New
York-based brokerage operation. His stake is worth about £ 145m. He has other
assets.

2009: £ 166m, 344= 330= £ 195m

£ 10m Mike Gooley Travel Former SAS soldier Gooley, 73, owns Trailfinders, the
Londonbased travel agency. In 2008-09, it made a £ 7.4m profit on record sales
of £ 634.4m. He owns houses in Berkshire, London and Spain and would be worth
more had he not made hefty donations to charity .

2009: £ 205m, 268= 330= £ 195m

£ 25m Manfred Gorvy and family Property and food South African-born Gorvy, 71,
runs Hanover Acceptances, a London-based property, food and financial services
group worth £ 180m. The family has other wealth from dividends .

2009: £ 170m, 33= 330= £ 195m

£ 15m Jonathan Green Finance Green, 50, has a stake in the quoted telecom

group Sepura worth nearly £ 10m. A notable donor to charity, he made his fortune
as a co-founder of the GLG hedge fund group in London but left the business in
2003 .

2009: £ 180m, 309= 334= £ 192m

£ 87m Richard Harpin Household repairs

Harpin, 45, founder of Homeserve, the Walsall-based insurance and repair
services firm, is forecasting strong growth for 2009-10. His stake in the
business is worth £ 182m. We add £ 10m for other assets.

2009: £ 105m, 510= 334= £ 192m New entry William Parente and family Inheritance
Parente, 59, inherited artworks, 62,000 acres in Nottinghamshire including the
Welbeck Abbey estate, 45,000 acres in Scotland, Bothal Castle in Northumberland
and 30 valuable acres around Harley Street in central London when his aunt, Lady
Anne Bentinck, died in 2008 .

336= £ 190m

£ 10m Andrew Brownsword Greetings cards and hotels Brownsword, 62, owns Abode
Hotels, a stylish chain, with the Michelin-starred chef Michael Caines, and the
£ 30m sports retailer Snow+ Rock. He made his first fortune building up a
greetings card company in Bath, which he sold to the Hallmark group in 1994 for
£ 165m. He sold his stake in Bath rugby club to Bruce Craig (qv)

earlier this month.

2009: £ 180m, 309= 336= £ 190m New entry Tony Cann and family Industry The
parent company of electronic whiteboard maker Promethean, based in Blackburn,
was valued at £ 400m last month when it floated in London. Cann, 71, and his
trusts have a £ 160m stake in the business, which he co-founded. Other family
assets include a metal group, a specialist cycle company and a chemical
operation .

336= £ 190m

£ 15m Martin Hughes Finance Hughes, known in the City as the "Rottweiler",
oversaw a 47% improvement in the performance of his Toscafund hedge fund last
year, after an awful 2008. With that gain, we value Toscafund at £ 120m. Hughes,
48, has another London company, Toscafield, with net assets of £ 15m. We add £
55m to his wealth for past dividends and salaries.

2009: £ 175m, 322= 336= £ 190m Sir Mick Jagger Music Will the Rolling Stones go
on the road again? There's no word yet, but it will be hard for them to top the
£ 390m they made in gross box office receipts on their last excursion, the 2007
Bigger Bang world tour. Clearly lead singer Jagger, 66, who lives in Surrey, has
considerable wealth, despite the absence of any accounts for the band. Weighing
up royalties from decades of hit records, property, song rights and touring
income against declining asset values and last year's inactivity, our rock
expert keeps him on £ 190m.

2009: £ 190m, 297= 336= £ 190m

£ 42m

Elisabeth Murdoch and Matthew Freud Media Murdoch, 41, daughter of The Sunday
Times proprietor Rupert Murdoch, saw a £ 14.3m profit on £ 238.6m sales in 2008
at Shine, her London-based TV production company. It has come up with a string
of hits, including MasterChef. The stake owned by Murdoch and her trusts is
worth £ 134m. Her husband, Freud, 46, sold a 50.1% stake in his Freud
Communications business to France's Publicis Groupe in 2005. His clients include
Sony and Diageo.

2009: £ 148m, 378= 336= £ 190m

£ 10m Alan Murphy Toilet rolls and property Murphy, 61, co-founded AM Paper, a
manufacturer of toilet rolls, in 1983 and made £ 150m selling off his equity in
it. The Liverpool supporter now bankrolls property group Nikal. Born in Bootle,
Merseyside, he is based in Monaco.

2009: £ 180m, 309= 336= £ 190m

£ 25m Irvine and James Sellar Property Work started last year on the Shard of
Glass building in London, the brainchild of developer Irvine Sellar, 71, above,
who has a 20% stake in it. He and his son, James, 37, have plenty of other
interests: we can see about £ 134m of net assets in a dozen firm

run by them.

2009: £ 165m, 346= 336= £190m

£20m Michael Uren and family Industry Uren, 86, sold his slag cement firm,
Caterham-based Civil & Marine, in 2006 and should have netted £ 200m after tax
for it.

When asset values fell in 2008, his wealth dropped. His nest egg is a little
healthier now.

2009: £ 170m, 33= 336= £ 190m Dave Whelan and family Sports goods Wigan
Athletic's owner has seen the club struggle in the Premier League this season.
Whelan, 73, is a former footballer whose career ended when he broke his leg
playing for Blackburn Rovers in the 1960 FA Cup final. He made his fortune
building up and then selling the JJB Sports retail chain.

2009: £ 190m, 297= 336= £ 190m Ed Wray Internet gambling In 2008-09, Betfair,
the Londonbased online betting exchange, made a profit of £ 42.2m on sales of £
292.9m. We value the firm, founded by former investment banker Wray, 42, and
Andrew Black (qv), at £ 1.5 billion. Wray has a 12.1% stake and other assets.

2009: £ 190m, 297= 346 £ 189m

£ 14m

Nigel and Trevor Green Film

Entertainment Group, the London film distributor and DVD company founded by the
Green brothers'' father, Michael, made an £ 8m profit on £ 126.3m sales in
2008-09. We value the firm on its £ 159m net asset figure and add £ 30m for past
salaries and dividends earned by Nigel, 53, and Trevor, 56.

2009: £ 175m, 322= 347 £ 188m

£ 43m

Sten Mortstedt and family Property Mortstedt's London-based CLS property group
has been selling surplus properties in France and Sweden while buying in
Germany. Its share price has recovered since the crash of 2008 and the family's
stake is now worth about £ 131m. We add £ 57m for other assets owned by the
Swede, 70.

2009: £ 145m, 382= 348= £ 185m

£ 88m

Assem Allam and family Marine generators Egyptian-born Allam, 70, owns Allam
Marine in Hull, worth £ 150m on its latest figures. The family also has a
development firm with £ 1.5m of net assets and £ 35m of personal property. We
knock £ 1.5m off their wealth for a donation to the University of Hull.

2009: £ 97m, 570= 348= £ 185m Andrew Black Online gambling A professional
gambler, Black founded online betting platform Betfair in 2000 with Ed Wray (qv)

because he resented the money that bookmakers were collecting. Softbank, the
Japanese group, took a stake in the London-based operation in 2006 that valued
it at £ 1.5 billion. Black, 46, has an 11.66% stake in Betfair and other assets.

2009: £ 185m, 304= 348= £ 185m

£ 10m

Sir Elton John Music See panel on page 43 351= £ 183m

£ 88m

Jan Hruska Computer security Sophos, the IT security company, is hoping to float
on the Nasdaq stock market this year with a £ 600m-plus valuation. The
Oxford-based firm, founded by Hruska, 53, and Peter Lammer (qv), is a world
leader in anti-virus software. Hruska and Lammer each have a £ 180m stake in the
business, and we add £ 3m for other assets.

2009: £ 95m, 575= 351= £ 183m

£ 88m

Peter Lammer Computer security Lammer, 51, has shares worth £ 180m in Sophos,
the computer anti-virus firm he founded in Oxford with Jan Hruska (qv), and
other assets.

2009: £ 95m, 575= 353 £ 182m

£ 82m

Sukhpal Singh Ahluwalia Car parts Ahluwalia, 51, owns Euro Car Parts, a
70-branch supplier of specialist car parts based in Wembley. Profits in 2009
more than doubled to £ 17m on sales of £ 186.9m.

2009: £ 100m, 540= 354= £ 180m

£ 128m

James Benamor Finance Benamor, 32, made his fortune by broking loans through his
Bournemouth-based Richmond Group to borrowers turned down by mainstream lenders.
Its profits rose to £ 12.8m on £ 36.3m sales in 2008-09, and it is worth £ 180m.

2009: £ 52m, 1,046= 354= £ 180m The Duke of Buccleuch and family Land Buccleuch
Estates, the property arm of the duke's family, plunged from a £ 4.1m profit to
a near£ 18m loss on sales of £ 64.6m in 2008. It had net assets of £ 118m. Art
treasures and antiques keep Buccleuch, 56, one of Scotland and
Northamptonshire's biggest landowners, on last year's valuation.

2009: £ 180m, 309= 354= £ 180m

£ 75m

Arpad Busson and Uma Thurman Finance and filmsLondon-based financier Busson's
romance with Hollywood actress Thurman, 39, seemed to be off in the winter but
they have since been seen together in London and New York. Busson chairs EIM, a
hedge fund business, and the couple are third in our Giving List due to their
support for Ark, the charity he founded in 2002 that has raised hundreds of
millions for education, children in care and HIV/Aids causes. We value Busson at
£ 160m and Thurman at £ 20m.

2009: £ 105m, 510= 354= £ 180m

£ 20mt Harry Dobson Mining A farmer's son from the Scottish Borders now based in
Monaco, Dobson, 62, chairs Borders & Southern Petroleum, which has oil
exploration rights around the Falklands.

2009: £ 200m, 274= 354= £ 180m

£ 110m

Julian Dunkerton Fashion See panel on page 44 354= £ 180m

£ 5m

Kevin McCabe and family Property McCabe, 62, has significant leisure interests
in China, including a controlling stake in Chengdu Blades, a top football club.
Closer to home, he chairs the original Blades, Sheffield United. Most of his
wealth comes from his Scarborough Property Group. In 2007, he sold his family's
stake in a subsidiary for £ 142.7m.

2009: £ 175m, 322=

Double act in demand 371= £ 175m

£ 5m, 3%

Catherine Zeta-Jones and Michael Douglas Films

Swansea's most famous export made her Broadway debut in December. Starring as
Desiree Armfeldt in a revival of Stephen Sondheim's A Little Night Music,
Zeta-Jones is treading the boards for the first time in 20 years, having spent
the intervening period making her name in film and television. Reviews for the
New York show have been a tad sniffy but it is a hot ticket. The 40-year-old''s
next project could be to star as Cleopatra in a rock musical movie produced by
Steven Soderbergh. Zeta-Jones was drawn to the smell of greasepaint from an
early age and landed her first big role playing the lead in Annie at the Swansea
Grand Theatre aged 12. Her husband, Douglas, 65, inset, is reprising the role of
Gordon Gekko from Wall Street, a part that won him an Oscar in 1987. The sequel,
Wall Street: Money Never Sleeps, is to be released in September. The couple, who
share the same birthday, married in 2000 and have two children, Dylan and Carys.
They spend much of their time in Bermuda, where Douglas co-owns the Ariel Sands
Beach Club. They have seven homes, including one in New York. "Like people
collect art, we collect homes," Zeta-Jones says, adding, "a bit of art, too, but
predominantly homes." She has carved out a lucrative advertising career: her
work for Elizabeth Arden has been so successful that she is negotiating a
contract giving her shares in it. She has appeared in TV commercials for
T-Mobile, Alfa Romeo and a hair product, Lux, that earned her £ 1.55m and was
broadcast in China, Taiwan and Japan only. Her share of film and ad revenues
plus signing-on fees is worth £ 65m and Douglas adds £ 110m.

2009: £ 170m, 33= 354= £ 180m

£ 80mt Michael Newton Closed-circuit television Newton, 50, is the king of CCTV
technology in Britain as the owner of Warrington-based AD Group. The company''s
programmers have come up with a digital video processor that Newton believes
will secure the next generation of CCTV technology.

2009: £ 260m, 218= 354= £ 180m

£ 113m

Andrew Nisbet and family Catering equipment The Bristol catering equipment
supplier Nisbets, started in 1983 by Nisbet, 49, is worth £ 179m. The family has
a stake worth £ 161m and other assets.

2009: £ 67m, 853= 354= £ 180m

£ 35m

Alastair Salvesen and family Transport and plant hire A soaring share price at
Aggreko, the Glasgow-based plant hire operation, will delight Salvesen, 68, and
his family, which has a near £ 128m stake in the company. Three years ago, the
family picked up £ 60m when it sold the logistics group Christian Salvesen.

2009: £ 145m, 382= 354= £ 180m

£ 70m

Ranjit and Baljinder Singh Food Husband and wife Ranjit and Baljinder, both 43,
have added the Harry Ramsden's fish and chip shop chain to their West
Midlands-based 2 Sisters Food Group. The couple own the parent company,
Smethwick-based Boparan Holdings, best known for its Buxted chickens brand.

2009: £ 110m, 492= 354= £ 180m Sting Music Wallsend-born Sting, 58, sets off
across North America this summer supported by the Royal Philharmonic Concert
Orchestra. It should be happier than the Police''s recent reunion tour, which he
likened to "going back to a dysfunctional marriage". Sting was perhaps consoled
by the $ 28m that Forbes estimated each member of the group banked in 2008 .

2009: £ 180m, 309= 354= £ 180m

£ 60m

Neil Taylor and family Computer games and property Taylor, 49, sold Game, a
computer games company he set up with his brothers, Carey and Chris. The trio
own more than 2,000 apartments in Germany. Dublinbased Taylor has his yacht,
Nero, on the market for £ 66m.

2009: £ 120m, 438= 354= £ 180m Stuart Wall Property Wall, 58, owns
Manchester-based Opal Property Group, which provides student accommodation and
affordable homes for key workers such as NHS staff.

2009: £ 180m, 309= 367= £ 178m

£ 59m

Daniel Borel Computer equipment Logitech, the computer mouse company, is worth
more than £ 1.8 billion and Swiss-born Borel, 60, who has a home in London, has
a stake worth £ 122m and other assets.

2009: £ 119m, 471= 367= £ 178m

£ 58m

Silvio Denz Perfume Swiss tycoon Denz, 53, who is based in London, has teamed up
with The Macallan distillery to produce a 57-year-old single malt whisky sold in
a Lalique decanter for more than £ 10,000. His British interests include Jaguar
Fragrances. Bilan magazine put his wealth at £ 178m in 2009.

2009: £ 120m, 438= 369= £ 176m

£ 17m

Peter Dawson and family Truck rental Dawson, 71, runs the Milton Keynes firm
Dawsongroup, one of the largest truck rental businesses in Europe. It is worth £
156m and there are additional assets.

2009: £ 159m, 358 369= £ 176m

£ 28m

Alan Gibbs Industry Gibbs, 70, a London-based New Zealander, has made fortunes
in everything from fridges to bricks. New Zealand's National Business Review
valued him at £ 176m in 2009.

2009: £ 148m, 378= 371= £ 175m

£ 5m

William Arah Finance Arah, 49, has a £ 125m stake in the London hedge fund
Marathon Asset Management. Other assets and past dividends add £ 50m.

2009: £ 170m, 33= 371= £ 175m

£ 25m

David Coffer Property Coffer, 62, and Anthony Lyons (qv)

sold their 50% stake in the Earls Court and Olympia exhibition centre to
property giant Liberty International in January.

2009: £ 150m, 362= 371= £ 175m Terence Cole Property London property
entrepreneurs Mark Steinberg (qv)

and Cole run Marcol, a London-based company set up to acquire, finance
andasset-manage property throughout Europe.

2009: £ 175m, 322= 371= £ 175m

£ 5m

Jeremy Hosking Finance Hosking, 51, and Neil Ostrer (qv)

set up Marathon Asset Management, one of London's top hedge funds. Hosking has a
stake in model train maker Hornby and gave £ 250,000 towards the West Somerset
railway's restoration of a steam locomotive.

2009: £ 170m, 33= 371= £ 175m

£ 10m

Doreen Lofthouse and family Cough lozenges Fleetwood is home to Fisherman's
Friends lozenges. Lofthouse, 80, managing director of Lofthouse of Fleetwood,
has transformed the business into a global brand.

2009: £ 165m, 346= 371= £ 175m

£ 90m

Sir David McMurtry Precision instruments McMurtry, 70, set up the
Gloucester-based precision engineering company Renishaw in 1973 and the business
floated 10 years later. His stake is worth more than £ 159m and past dividends
add to his wealth.

2009: £ 85m, 657= 371= £ 175m

£ 5m

Neil Ostrer Finance Ostrer, 51, co-founded London hedge fund Marathon Asset
Management in 1986. It is controlled by a partnership that includes Ostrer,
Jeremy Hosking (qv)

and Bill Arah (qv)

as directors and is worth at least £ 375m. We add £ 50m for Ostrer's past
salaries and dividends .

2009: £ 170m, 33= 371= £ 175m Anthony Preston and family Pet shops
Cheshire-based Pets at Home, the UK's biggest pet products retailer, was sold in
January in a £ 955m deal. Beneficiaries included Bridgepoint Capital, which
bought the chain in 2004 for £ 230m from investors who included its founder,
Preston, 55. He will have picked up more than £ 85m from the latest deal.

2009: £ 175m, 322= 371= £ 175m Keith Richards Music Dartford-born Richards, 66,
is best known as the hell-raising guitarist with the Rolling Stones. The band
has generated more than £ 1.8 billion in receipts from touring since 1989. In
the past year, 13 of the Stones' most recent album

have been remastered and reissued. This part of the back catalogue goes from
Sticky Fingers in 1971 to A Bigger Bang in 2005.

2009: £ 175m, 322= 371= £ 175m Tom Scott and family Industry Scott, 65, the most
powerful businessman in the Channel Islands, has franchises for chains including
Morrisons and Marks & Spencer and helped build International Energy Group,
controlling the local energy supplies. He has an extensive property portfolio
and energy interests in Britain, France and Portugal.

2009: £ 175m, 322= 371= £ 175m Mark Steinberg Property Steinberg, 50, and
Terence Cole (qv)

teamed up with a private equity firm last summer to buy Median, a German
rehabilitation care provider, which runs 27 acute clinics with 6,000 beds. The
pair run Marcol, which was set up to acquire, finance and assetmanage real
estate throughout the UK and Europe.

2009: £ 175m, 322= 371= £ 175m

£ 25m

Graham Wylie Software Technology Services Group took over an IT consultancy in
February - its 23rd acquisition since being established by Wylie in Newcastle
upon Tyne in 2003. The Scottish tycoon, who netted about £ 180m from software
multinational Sage, is a prominent racehorse owner.

2009: £ 150m, 362= 371= £ 175m

£ 5m

Catherine Zeta-Jones and Michael Douglas Film

See panel on page 47 371= £ 175m

£ 65m

Sir John Zochonis Soap Zochonis, 80, is the great-nephew of one of the two
founders of Stockport soap maker PZ Cussons, Greek entrepreneurs who set up
Paterson Zochonis in 1884 to trade with Nigeria. A former chairman, he handed
over to his nephew Anthony Green (qv)

in 1993, but retains a £ 167m stake and has other wealth.

2009: £ 110m, 492= 385 £ 174m

£ 8m

Barbara Taylor Bradford Novels See panel opposite 386 £ 173m

£ 40m

Sir Michael Bibby and family Shipping Turnover broke the £ 1 billion barrier at
Liverpool''s Bibby Line Group in 2008 with new businesses springing up. Having
sold most of its ships before the downturn, the group has diversified into debt
factoring, financial services and food distribution. Bibby, 46, is the sixth
generation to head the business .

2009: £ 133m, 403 387 £ 172m

£ 24mt Tihan Presbie Computers Presbie, 45, a London futures trader, and Rob
Small set up computer games company Miniclip in 2001, launching it with a
dancing game featuring George Bush as a 1970s-style disco dancer. Based in
London, Miniclip has more than 57m dedicated users a month, together with 450
simple games, mostly free.

2009: £ 196m, 290 388= £ 170m

£ 25m

The Astor family Property The Astor family company Sableknight went from a £
21.4m profit to a £ 1.5m loss during 2008, but with a slight recovery in the
property market we value the business on its net asset figure of £ 153.3m. Over
the past three years, Sableknight has paid out £ 19m in dividends .

2009: £ 145m, 382= 388= £ 170m Barrie Haigh Pharmaceuticals and farming Haigh,
71, who runs Oxfordshirebased Red Kite Farms, made his money from the sale of
Innovex, the pharmaceutical consultancy he set up.

2009: £ 170m, 33= 388= £ 170m

£ 30m

Brian Kingham Security services Kingham, 65, founded Reliance Security, the
Uxbridge-based security group, best known for its £ 126m Scottish prisoner
escort service and similar contracts worth £ 250m in Wales and England. Other
assets include Kingham Farms, which is worth its £ 8.2m assets.

2009: £ 140m, 388= 388= £ 170m

£ 50m

Kartar and Tej Lalvani Food supplements Indali Lounge, a London curry house, has
been declared one of Britain's top 10 healthiest restaurants. It is owned by
Kartar Lalvani, 78, founder of Vitabiotics, which makes top-selling nutritional
supplements such as Osteocare. His son Tej, 35, runs the international side of
the £ 150m London-based business .

2009: £ 120m, 438= 388= £ 170m Nigel Morris Finance Essex-born Morris, 51, is
the managing partner of QED Investors, a direct investment fund focused on
high-growth companies in America. He helped set up the Capital One credit card.

2009: £ 170m, 33= 388= £ 170m

£ 108m

Ralph Oppenheimer and family Steel Oppenheimer, 69, is chairman ofLondon-based
Stemcor, the world's largest independent steel trading company, dealing in 20m
tons of steel annually. Despite the problem

within the steel industry, Stemcor has a healthy balance sheet and £ 234m net
assets.

2009: £ 62m, 910= 394 £ 168m

£ 2mt Lord Foster Architecture Architectural group Foster and Partners is
turning its attention to the Moon. It is part of a group hoping to win a
contract from the European Space Agency to test materials for building
settlements on the lunar surface. Foster, 74, one of the world's great
architects, donated £ 2m to Yale University's School of Architecture to fund a
professorship in his name.

2009: £ 170m, 33= 395= £ 166m

£ 48mt Jimmy Heselden Defence equipment Hesco Bastion has seen a decline in
demand for its blast walls and fortifications that protect military bases in
Iraq and Afghanistan, but it still made £ 27.1m on £ 111m sales in 2008-09. The
Leeds firm is run and owned by Heselden, 62, and is worth £ 150m. It is
diversifying into flood defences in Britain. Heselden has other assets and
recently took over Segway, a US company that makes high-tech scooters. He ranks
30th in this year.''s Giving List, having paid £ 13m into his Hesco Bastion fund
in 2008-09 .

2009: £ 214m, 261= 395= £ 166m

£ 20m

Shamus Jennings and family Property The Northern Ireland company Ballyrogan
Holdings is still owned by the Jennings family, which sold Rotary Group, a
subsidiary, for almost £ 100m in 2008. Jennings, 56, chairs Ballyrogan and the
family owns the Cusp property group, with a £ 500m portfolio.

2009: £ 146m, 381

Happy ever after 385 £ 174m

£ 8m, 5% s Barbara Taylor Bradford Novels Once upon a time, there was a
beautiful girl who wanted to write books. So she worked hard, wrote them, and
the world read them and loved them and made her famous. The End. (Apart from all
the money she made doing it, of course.)

Barbara Taylor Bradford's 25 bestsellers have sold more than 82m copies in 90
countries, in 40 languages. The 76-year-old, born in Leeds, first earned just 7s
6d at the age of 10 for a children''s story. By 15 she was a typist at the
Yorkshire Evening Post. At 20, she was working for Woman's Own in London. Our
plucky heroine then fell in love with American film producer Bob Bradford,
married him, dear reader, and moved to Manhattan. There, two years' hard graft
(14-hour days, seven days a week)

produced her first success, A Woman of Substance, in 1979, which has sold more
than 31m copies. She has not denied estimates that she is worth $ 240m and makes
close to $ 24m a year. As a result, we add £ 8m to last year's valuation of BTB.

2009: £ 166m, 344= 395= £166m

£112m

Andrew Pritchard Frozen food Chartered accountant Pritchard, 51, heads Iceland,
the frozen food chain based in Clwyd. In 2008-09, its profits soared to £86.8m
on more than £2 billion sales. The group has 750 stores and plans to open 100
more this year. Pritchard, who quit Iceland with Malcolm Walker (qv)

in 2001 and returned four years later, has a 16.48% stake in the firm worth
£165m. We add £1m for other assets.

2009: £54m, 1,001= 398= £165m

£50m

Lance Clark and family Shoes Profits at Clarks, the Somersetbased shoe retailer,
reached a record £86.8m on £1.12 billion sales in 2008-09. Most of the firm's
shares are dispersed among the 400-strong Clark family, but about 25%, worth
£150m, is held by a small core led by Lance, 73. He owns ethical shoe retailer
Terra Plana and co-founded the Aids charity Soul of Africa.

2009: £115m, 474= 398= £165m

£45m

Simon Cowell Music The X Factor judge signed a new deal with record giant Sony
in January that will earn him millions over six years, starting with the US
launch of the talent show next year. Cowell has earned £86m in the past two
years from his TV work and his production company, according to Forbes magazine.
With a growing property portfolio, the 50-yearold rises by £45m this year.

2009: £120m, 438= 398= £165m Henry Moser and family Finance The Blemain Group
was cofounded by Moser, 60, in 1973 and specialises in secured lending to
residential and commercial customers. Jerrold Holdings, the parent company, saw
profits rise from

£68.7m to £69m on sales of nearly £149.5m in the year to June 2009. We value the
business at £200m and the family's stake at £140m. Past dividends amount to
£25m.

2009: £165m, 346= 398= £165m

£5m

Gary Widdowson Recycling Essex-based Widdowson, 52, held on to 22% of his Metal
& Waste Recycling business when it was sold in 2006 for £120m. He has moved into
property through Kenninghall Holdings and owns a dock on the Thames, plus
another firm, Total Waste Management.

2009: £160m, 350= 398= £165m

£33m

Alan Wiseman and family Milk Thousands of Robert Wiseman workers received a £100
bonus for working long shifts during the winter. The Scottish milk business is
run by the founder's sons, led by Alan, 59, as chairman. It is valued at £325m
and the family has a £131m stake. Share sales add £34m.

2009: £132m, 404 403 £162m

£2m

Eliasz Englander and family Property The property veteran has been signing up
tenants for a 100,000 sq ft office and retail project in London's Holborn.
Englander, 77, has more than 130 directorships and an intricate group of
companies. Through Citywise, the family owns Holborn Links, with assets of more
than £131m in 2008. Smaller firm

have £100m assets, but some stakes overlap.

2009: £160m, 350= 404 £161m

£37m

Calum and Stuart Melville Lifting equipment A property business and other assets
bulk up the wealth of brothers Calum, 41, above, and Stuart, 44, who sold the
Aberdeen company GTC Group, a supplier of lifting equipment to the oil and gas
industry, for £30m in 2007. Calum is a director of Dundee FC and a member of the
leaders group in the Conservative party.

2009: £124m, 436 405= £160m

£75m

David Allen Caravan parks Having made his money with Bourne Leisure, the caravan
park and holiday camp company based at Hemel Hempstead, Allen, 77, and his
family run Barcham Trees, a Cambridgeshire nursery that made a profit of
£190,000 on £5.2m sales in 2008-09. Allen is still a Bourne shareholder.

2009: £85m, 657= 405= £160m Sir Euan Anstruther-Gough-Calthorpe and family
Property Calthorpe Holdings made a £12.85m loss in 2008-09, when its net assets
fell from

£21.6m to £6.5m. The company has had to revise its development of 1,550 acres in
Edgbaston, Birmingham, which Anstruther-Gough-Calthorpe, 43, wants to make the
Midlands' best place in which to live and work. He has interests in America and
property in Europe and the Gulf.

2009: £160m, 350= 405= £160m

£10m

John Berkley and family Mobile homes and property Berkley chairs the Berkeley
Leisure Group, which stated in its 2008 annual report that its mobile homes and
other freehold properties were worth £100m more than their £56.8m book value.
The Yeovil business is owned mainly by Berkley, 76, and his family.

2009: £150m, 362= 405= £160m

£45m

Frank Boyd and family Property Boyd, 55, and Andrew Creighton (qv)

jointly own William Ewart Properties, one of Northern Ireland's biggest property
firms. Other assets include Killultagh Estates.

2009: £115m, 474= 405= £160m

£10m

Victor Chandler Internet gambling Betting website owner Chandler, 59, ran a book
on who killed Archie Mitchell in TV's EastEnders. The murderer was a 14-1
outsider, so he should have cleaned up. We value Chandler's Gibraltar-based
business at £300m. Chandler has a 45% stake in addition to art, property and
other investments .

2009: £150m, 362= 405= £160m

£50m

Geoffrey Halstead and family Flooring Halstead, 80, with his family and trusts,
owns nearly half of James Halstead, the AIM-listed manufacturer of vinyl tiles,
based in Manchester. That stake is worth £148m and there are other assets.

2009: £110m, 492= 405= £160m

£20m

Olivia and Dhani Harrison Inheritance Olivia Harrison, 62, widow of musician
George, and their guitarist son, Dhani, 31, will benefit from the launch last
September of the Beatles catalogue, remastered for the first time since 1987,
and from the music video game Beatles Rock Band. The family's base is in
Oxfordshire.

2009: £140m, 388= 405= £160m

£15m

Michael Herbert and family Property and fast food In the 1980s, when few
fast-food rivals dared venture into Belfast, Herbert, 52, set up Herbel
Restaurants. It now holds the biggest Kentucky Fried Chicken franchise in
Europe. We value the business at £60m. Herbert is also developing properties in
Belfast and Scotland, naming buildings after his wife, Lesley.

2009: £145m, 382= 405= £160m

£25mt Peter Horton and family Property Horton, 40, and his family own Horton
Estates, one of the biggest property development companies in the Midlands, with
net assets of nearly £150m. The family has taken large dividends .

2009: £185m, 304= 405= £160m

£26m Tim and Kit Kemp Hotels The Kemps' first overseas venture, the Crosby
Street hotel in New York, opened to impressive reviews last year, repeating the
success of their six London hotels. Kit, 50, is in charge of the award-winning
look while her husband, Tim, 64, focuses on the figures. Firmdale Holdings made
a £1.4m profit on £53.8m sales in 2008-09. The £156m firm is owned by the Kemps
and trusts. We add £4m for the couple's other assets.

2009: £134m, 402 405= £160m John King Pharmaceuticals King, 61, retained a small
slice of Warner Chilcott, the US drug firm he once headed. He made about £125m
when it was taken over in 2005 and substantial sum

before then from share sales, salaries and dividends. He donated £2m towards new
laboratories at Queen's University Belfast, where he studied and worked.

2009: £160m, 350= 405= £160m

£33m

Alisa Moussaieff and family Retailing Moussaieff Jewellers had a record year in
2008-09 with £16m profit on sales of £94.8m. The family business, led by Alisa,
81, is based in London and is worth £120m. We add £40m for other assets.

2009: £127m, 424 405= £160m

£15m

Theo Paphitis Stationery and lingerie Cypriot-born Paphitis is well placed to
dispense advice on TV's Dragons' Den - he made about £100m from the sale of the
La Senza lingerie chain, has a majority stake in Ryman worth £60m and owns
commercial property .

2009: £145m, 382= 405= £160m Brian Scowcroft and Janet Lefton Insurance and
property Scowcroft ran Swinton, the insurance group founded by his father. The
family, including his sister, Lefton, 51, made about £150m from its takeover by
Sun Alliance. Scowcroft, 54, built a portfolio of business parks, headed by
400-acre Kingmoor Park in Carlisle. He sponsors two academy schools in the city.

2009: £160m, 350= 405= £160m The Earl of Stockton and the Macmillan family
Publishing The Macmillan books empire is the root of the family fortune.
London-based Stockton, 66, grandson of former prime minister Harold Macmillan,
added about £7.5m to the family fortune when he sold his Devon estate. Residual
publishing holdings are worth £30m.

2009: £160m, 350= 421 £157m

£103m

Malcolm Walker Frozen food Iceland Frozen Foods spent £4m taking 800 managers to
Disney's Florida resort in September, rewarding them for four years of success
since Walker, 64, led a consortium that took control of the company he
co-founded in 1970. It has 750 stores and plans another 100 this year. In
2008-09 its profits soared to £86.8m as sales topped £2 billion. Walker and his
trusts have a 14.18% stake worth £142m and other interests.

2009: £54m, 1001= 422= £155m

£65m

Paul Caddick and family Construction Caddick, 59, founded Yorkshirebased Caddick
Group, which has property and developments as well as a stake in the Headingley
Carnegie sports stadium in Leeds. It is more than 90% owned by the family and in
2008 had assets of £45.1m. There is other wealth.

2009: £90m, 600= 422= £155m

£20m

Sir Peter Michael Electronics Michael, 71, mixes business with pleasure, running
a winery in California and a collection of hotels. His fortune is founded on the
electronics companies Micro Consultants and Quantel and his main company,
Stockford, is worth £40m. Berkshire-based Michael has other assets.

2009: £135m, 400= 424= £154m

£40m

John Coulter and Ann Jones Jewellery Warren James, the high street jeweller, has
grown to a chain of 120 shops since being founded in 1979 by Jones, 56, and her
brother, 58. The Stockport-based firm saw profits dip to £15.2m in 2008-09 but
is still worth £120m. They have other wealth.

2009: £14m, 488 424= £154m

£50m

Douglas Craig and family Fishing and oil services Aberdeen's Craig Group made
£15.5m profit on £104.6m sales in 2008-09 and the oil and fishing services
operation has £110m net assets. It is led by Craig, 60, grandson of the founder.

2009: £104m, 531= 427 £153m

£80mt David Pearl Property At 64, Pearl still cycles around central London to
view properties for his Structadene company. Profits rose from

£2.6m to £4.5m in the year to September 2008, but net assets fell from

£287.5m to £149.2m. We add £4m for other wealth.

2009: £233m, 241 428= £152m John Lynch and family Construction John Lynch
(Builders)

had £11m net assets in December 2008. But under the shrewd stewardship of Lynch,
61, the Ayr company has amassed 280 acres of development land in Scotland worth
£100m. Other assets include farm

and property .

2009: £152m, 361 428= £152m

£22m

Tim Martin Pubs Martin, 54, announced in December that his JD Wetherspoon chain
plans to invest £250m in 250 new pubs by 2014. It currently has 743. Profits for
the year to July 2009 were a record £66.2m on sales of £955.1m. Martin's stake
is worth £140m and he has other assets.

2009: £130m, 406= 430 £151m

£96m

Stephen and Peter Bond Aviation Bond Aviation Group, run and owned mainly by
Stephen Bond, 59, and his brother Peter, 48, won five contracts in September
worth £153m to service oil and gas fields and the world's largest offshore wind
farm, off the Suffolk coast. The Gloucestershire firm made £15m profit in
2008-09. The brothers' stake is worth £95m. They also own 50% of Loganair and
25% of Alliance Airlines.

2009: £55m, 986= 431= £150m

£70m

Johnny and Patsy Byrne Construction The west London builder Byrne Group has
defied the recession by posting record profits of £11m on record sales of
£326.2m in the year to May 2009. The business is run by Irish brothers Johnny,
64, and Patsy, 61. The family collected £90m in salaries and dividends from 1995
to 2009.

2009: £80m, 694= 431= £150m

£20m

Charles Clowes Property The East Midlands entrepreneur, 69, owns Clowes
Developments, which had nearly £59m net assets in 2008-09. Reports in the
property press suggest he is looking to sell for £300m.

2009: £130m, 406= 431= £150m

£30m

Nick Dhandsa and family Nursing homes Dhandsa, 54, a former doctor, has been
investing in property, golf courses and a health clinic since selling his London
nursing home operator, Associated Nursing Services, to Bupa for £330m in 2005.
His family had 38% of the company .

2009: £120m, 438= 431= £150m Barney and Frances Eastwood Betting shops Barney
and his wife, Frances, both 78, sold the Eastwood Bookmakers chain to Ladbrokes
for £135m two years ago. The couple have extensive property interests and an art
collection.

2009: £150m, 362= 431= £150m Alan and Wendy English Conference centres Alan
English, 67, is involved with Hotel la Tour, which plans 12 hotels in big
cities. Northamptonbased English and his wife, Wendy, 65, had a £150m stake in
Hayley Conference Centres, sold for £358m in 2007 .

2009: £150m, 362= 431= £150m John Frieda Hairdressing Every year, almost 2m
bottles of the Frizz-Ease range are sold in the UK alone, boosting profits at
John Frieda Professional Hair Care. Singer Lulu's former husband, 58, who
stopped cutting hair in 1990, has property and retains a few fashionable salons
from a 2002 takeover.

2009: £150m, 362= 405= £160m

£3m, 2%s The Marquess of Bath Land Surrounded by erotic paintings and a bevy of
"wifelets", and with zebras in his garden, the 7th Marquess of Bath appears to
live in a parallel universe. Don't be fooled: this is one shrewd, if eccentric,
businessman. Since inheriting Longleat in 1992, he has developed the Wiltshire
site into a lucrative tourist attraction. In addition to the safari park, which
is featured in the BBC series Animal Park, there is a maze and a steam railway.
Visitors also flock to Longleat House, which is stuffed with art treasures,
furniture and rare books, and its gardens. Bath, 77, has been married to his
actress wife Anna since 1969 and recently handed control of Longleat
Enterprises, which also runs the Cheddar Caves site in Somerset, to their
35-year-old son Ceawlin, Viscount Weymouth. The marquess will continue to live
at Longleat and work on his epic autobiography. Bath's wealth is made up of art
treasures and Longleat's library, valued at £72m after tax, and the Wiltshire
estate, Longleat Enterprises and proceeds of past auctions, which we estimate at
£88m in total.

2009: £157m, 359=

Card ace sets pace 424= £154m

£14m, 285%

Dean and Janet Hoyle Greetings cards

Text messages and emails have their place but sometimes only a card will do.
Greetings cards are a year-round business, and a lucrative one in the hands of
Dean Hoyle, 43, and his wife Janet, 42, inset. Wakefield-based Card Factory was
established in 1997 and has about 480 stores. Hoyle, right, says of his business
model: "If people could shop in Harrods and pay Netto prices, that is the
perfect scenario." The formula has paid off and this month the company was sold
to Charterhouse, the private equity firm, for £350m. Hoyle, chairman of League
One football club Huddersfield Town, will still play a role at Card Factory,
which raises funds for Macmillan Cancer Support. Proceeds from the sale and
other assets put the couple at £154m.

2009: £40m, 1,348= 431= £150m

£100m

David Gabbay and family Property Gabbay, co-founder of the O&H property
operation, saw net assets fall from

£478m to £255.5m in 2008-09. The parent company has been reorganised but we
believe that Gabbay owns half of the Mayfair business, which started in
residential and has expanded into offices and retail. Gabbay, 66, has banked
sizeable dividends and salaries.

2009: £250m, 22= 431= £150m

£50m

Willie Haughey and family Refrigeration City Refrigeration started life in the
Glasgow home of Haughey and his wife, Susan, in 1985. Today it has customers
across the UK. Haughey, 53, has a small stake in Celtic FC and has donated about
£1m to Labour since 2003. The business is worth £120m and there are other
assets.

2009: £100m, 540= 431= £150m New entry Andreas Heeschen Property and finance The
German tycoon made his money in property and through London investment company
Pall Mall Capital. Heeschen, 49, chairs the gun company Heckler & Koch, where he
holds a majority stake. Last May another Heeschen venture, ProChemie Holding,
took a 50% stake in LyondellBasell, a chemicals company owned by Leonard
Blavatnik (qv), the subject of recent takeover speculation.

431= £150m

£30m

Roger and Diana Jenkins Finance See panel on page 55 431= £150m New entry Aref
Karim and family Finance Karim, 57, worked for the Abu Dhabi Investment
Authority, the world's largest sovereign wealth fund, from 1982 to 1995. He
returned to the UK to found Surrey-based hedge fund Quality Capital Management.
It has been a huge success - the flagship Global Diversified Programme has
generated annualised returns of 15.82% since 1995. In 2008 the business made
£42.9m profit on £49.3m sales. Karim, a chartered accountant, and his family own
at least 97% of the £150m operation and have other assets.

431= £150m

£30m

Nick Leslau Property Leslau floated Max Property Group on AIM in May 2009. It is
worth £260m and Leslau, 50, has a £24m stake, adding to wealth from his
co-ownership of Prestbury Group with Nigel Wray (qv). Prestbury Investment
Holdings had £78.4m net assets in 2008. Leslau also has more than £40m of
dividends .

2009: £120m, 438= 431= £150m Dame Celia Lipton Farris Inheritance and investment
Scots-born singer Lipton Farris, 85, who lives in Florida, is one of the great
fundraisers for worthy causes. The American Cancer Society established the Dame
Celia Lipton Farris Lifetime Achievement Award in honour of her 30 years' work.
She married Victor Farris, a US industrialist who died in 1985 and left her more
than £100m, which has grown to £150m.

2009: £150m, 362= 431= £150m

£25m

Sir Keith Mills Loyalty cards Having helped London secure the 2012 Olympics,
Mills is trying to bring the football World Cup to England. The Essex-born
entrepreneur is a keen sailor and in 1999 was one of the crew that won the
Clipper Round the World yacht race. He is principal of Britain's Team Origin,
which aim

to compete in the America's Cup. Mills, 59, founded the Air Miles and Nectar
loyalty schemes. He amassed £150m from the sale of the cards and other
businesses he built.

2009: £125m, 426= 431= £150m

£48m

Jon Moulton Finance After quitting private equity firm Alchemy Partners last
year, Moulton, 59, set up investment business Better Capital, which has bought
the UK edition of Reader's Digest out of administration. Better Capital floated
on AIM last December and Moulton has a £16m stake. He also has £46m in the
investment business Ashmore Group.

2009: £102m, 535= 431= £150m

£35m

Sir Robert Ogden Property Property businesses underwrite Ogden's twin passions:
racehorses and his charitable work, for which he was knighted in 2001. Ogden,
74, gives university scholarships to disadvantaged youngsters from Yorkshire pit
villages. He invested early in London Docklands and in 2006 sold A Ogden & Sons,
his coal-washing and processing firm, for £24.5m.

2009: £115m, 474= 431= £150m

£20m

Jamie Palumbo Entertainment The Ministry of Sound, the biggest independent
record label in the world, is embroiled in a row over plans to build a 41-storey
tower block near its south London nightclub. More than 6,000 people have signed
the MoS's petition against the development. The Ministry was founded as a club
in 1992 by Palumbo, 46, who set it up with £250,000 savings after a stint as a
bond trader in the City. It is worth £80m.

2009: £130m, 406= 431= £150m New entry Jim Ratcliffe Chemicals See profile on
page 54 431= £150m

£30m

Jonathan Reeves Computers Reeves, 50, runs Afore Solutions, a high-tech company
in Ottawa, having sold his first networking firm, Sahara Networks, for $212m in
1997 and Sirocco System

in 2000 for stock then worth $2.9 billion. The electronics tycoon was born in
Dorset.

2009: £120m, 438= 431= £150m

£10m

Walter Scott Finance Scott, 62, owns properties in Charlotte Square, a prime
Edinburgh address. Four years ago, he received an estimated £150m when the US
bank Mellon bought his investment company Walter Scott & Partners .

2009: £140m, 388= 431= £150m

£100mt Eli Shahmoon and family Property The property-to-construction group O&H
Holdings was cofounded by Shahmoon's father Ephraim and David Gabbay (qv). The
London firm showed £255m net assets in its 2008-09 accounts. Shahmoon and his
family own half and there is other wealth.

2009: £250m, 22= 431= £150m

£30m

Michael Sherwood Finance Michael Sherwood, co-chief executive of Goldman Sachs
International, had his pay capped at £1m in 2009 amid public outrage against
bankers. For Sherwood, 44, the hardship will be bearable; share sales and gains
on options in 2009-10 came in at £15m. He picked up at least £10m a year for the
past few years and with the recovery in Goldman Sachs shares his stake is worth
£46m. Previous share sales add to his wealth.

2009: £120m, 438= 431= £150m Mark Shuttleworth Internet Shuttleworth, 36,
stepped down as chief executive of Canonical, his London software operation, in
December to spend more time developing the free Linux software. He founded Here
Be Dragons, a venture capital operation, to support and mentor other
entrepreneurs after he sold an internet security company in his native Cape Town
for £400m in 2000. He has pledged half of his fortune to charity .

2009: £150m, 362= 431= £150m

£100mt Michael Spencer Finance Icap, the City broker founded by Spencer in 1986,
saw its share price slump in February after it warned that trading volumes were
badly hit. Spencer, 54, who is to step down as Tory party treasurer in the
autumn, has a £346m Icap stake, having sold £95m of shares. He has pledged
shares as collateral to banks for loans to support his City Index spreadbetting
operation and other firms. Icap's charity day, held every December, in which all
brokerage fees and profits from a day's trading are given to good causes, last
year raised £11.5m. More than £64m has been raised since 1993.

2009: £250m, 22= 431= £150m

£10m

Sir Peter Vardy and family Car sales Peter Vardy Holdings saw 2009 profits soar
from

£617,000 to £3.6m on turnover up 30% at £140m. The Edinburgh business is run by
Peter Vardy Jr, whose father built the Reg Vardy dealership before selling to
rival Pendragon in 2006 in a deal that netted the family £124m. Sir Peter, 63,
one of Britain's leading philanthropists, paid more than £4m into his Vardy
Foundation last year, with £1.6m paid out chiefly to religious, educational and
poverty relief causes.

2009: £140m, 388= 431= £150m

£15mt Nigel Wray Property Wray, 62, has stakes in 19 quoted companies including
a £52m-plus share of Domino's Pizza UK & Ireland. It had a record 2009 with
profits up 27.7% to nearly £30m. Since 2007 he has sold £41m of shares. Working
with Nick Leslau (qv), Wray, who lives in London, has more than 47% of Prestbury
Investment Holdings, which deals in property .

2009: £165m, 346= 431= £150m

£30m

Angela Yeoman and family Aggregates Yeoman, 78, still sits on the board of
quarrying company Foster Yeoman, which she chaired for 19 years. The company,
founded by her father-in-law, was sold for about £300m in 2006 to Aggregate
Industries and the family netted £150m after tax. Her Kingairloch Estate in the
Highlands is investing £3m to upgrade facilities for sporting visitors.

2009: £120m, 438= 4 NPr 458 £148m

£26m

Nick Capstick-Dale Property UK Real Estate has £148m of net assets. It is the
main London company of Capstick-Dale, 47, who has low borrowings and can buy
sites at discounts, just as the former estate agent did when anticipating the
1989 property crash.

2009: £122m, 437 459= £145m

£5m

Kaveh Alamouti Finance Alamouti, 55, owns Optimum Asset Management in London,
which had nearly £1m net assets in 2008-09, though his fortune was made as a
hedge fund manager with earnings said to total £116m.

2009: £140m, 388= 459= £145m

£25m

John Charman Insurance Charman, 57, a star of the London insurance market, is
chief executive of Axis Capital and has a £129m stake in the Bermuda company.
Since 2006, the year he was hit by a £48m divorce, he has sold £30m of Axis
shares .

2009: £120m, 438= 4 Gr 459= £145m

£28m

Graham Harris Pr Property London & City Group Holdings specialises in London
lettings and markets in Paris and the French Alps. Harris, 63, owns the company,
which in 2008-09 saw net assets rise from

£138.8m to £143.3m.

2009: £117m, 473 459= £145m

£17m

Richard Hunting and family Oil services The City-based Hunting group, a supplier
of oilfield equipment, is worth nearly £790m. Hunting, 63, the chairman, has
only a small direct holding in the firm but the family stake is worth £140m.
Hunting is chairman of the Battle of Britain Memorial Trust.

2009: £128m, 423 459= £145m

£20m

Mike Luckwell Media Green energy company New Energy Finance was sold in December
to the Bloomberg Group for more than £30m. It meant a payday for Luckwell, 67,
who also chairs Ingenious Media Capital. We can see at least £104m of share
sales over the years, including a £33m deal at HIT Entertainment. Luckwell has a
£25m stake in a call centre operation, The Listening Company.

2009: £125m, 426= 459= £145m

£35mt Gerald Ronson and family Property Ronson's £500m Heron Tower, an office
project in the City, has reached its full 46 storeys and will open next year.
Alongside it, Ronson, 70, is developing the 24-storey Heron Plaza, which he
intends to turn into a hotel. In 2008 Heron International, the parent company,
made a £22m profit and showed £434.5m net assets. Ronson, who owns about 25%,
also has the Snax 24 petrol retailing business, worth at least £60m. Down the
years he has given £35m to charities.

2009: £180m, 309= 459= £145m

£5m

Julian and David Schild Medical equipment Huntleigh Technology was started by
the late Rolf Schild, who arrived as a refugee from Nazi Germany, and run in
Luton by his sons Julian, 50, and David, 49, until it was sold in 2006. The deal
netted the Schild family £176m before tax. They are now involved in property .

2009: £140m, 388= 459= £145m Sir Ray Tindle Newspapers Profits fell at Tindle
Press Holdings last year from

£8.6m to £4m on £46m sales. It has £60.5m net assets. TPH is worth £120m and
Tindle, 83, based in Surrey, has other assets.

2009: £145m, 382= 468 £144m

£26mt Christopher Moran Finance and property Chesterlodge, Moran's main holding
company, saw net assets hit £210m in 2008-09. We value the business at £140m.
Moran, 62, owns the 15th-century Crosby Hall in London's Chelsea, which he has
restored. Among Chesterlodge's assets is the 48,000-acre Glenfiddich estate near
Aberdeen.

2009: £170m, 33=

Putting on the style 459= £145m

£20m, 16%

David and Victoria Beckham Football and fashion

So hot are Victoria Beckham's dresses that thieves stole 75 spring styles in
December from a delivery van in west London. That incident apart, these are
happy days for the woman formerly known as Posh, who is wowing the world as much
as footballer husband David thanks to her Victoria Beckham fashion label, which
is expected to ring up $7.5m in sales in 2010. It is not all plain sailing at
Brand Beckham, however, with Simon Fuller (qv)

recently quitting as a director, although sources describe it as an
"administrative move" and insist it will make no difference to their working
relationship. In 2008, Brand Beckham profits soared to £5.6m on £9.8m sales.
Beckham, 34, wanted a last hurrah with England at this summer's World Cup in
South Africa but an Achilles injury put paid to that. He has less than two years
remaining on his reputed £128m contract with LA Galaxy, a large part of which
depends on his ability to attract club sponsors and to raise attendances at
games. About 25% of Beckham's earnings come from Asia and he has had countless
deals with blue-chip companies. In 2007, the couple were paid $13.7m to launch
his fragrance line in the US. Forbes in its celebrity 100 list last year put
Beckham's earnings at £28m worldwide and Victoria, 36, made at least £6m from
the Spice Girls reunion tour and her fashion line. We value the pair at £145m.

2009: £125m, 616= 469 £143m New entry John Laithwaite and family Laundry
equipment JLA is Europe's largest distributor of commercial laundry equipment.
Laithwaite, 65, a Yorkshire entrepreneur, last month sold the Sowerby Bridge
firm to HG Capital for £150m-£175m. On the lower figure, the Laithwaites' 94%
stake is worth £141m and dividends add £2m.

470 £142m New entry Vladimir Ni Mining As non-executive chairman of Kazakhmys,
Ni, 77, helps oversee one of the world's biggest copper mining groups. The
Kazakhstan operation floated on the London stock market in October 2005 and is
worth more than £6.5 billion. Ni has a £142m stake.

471 £141m

£77m

Anthony Todd Finance The London hedge fund Aspect Capital saw profits leap in
2008 from

£29.3m to £84.9m and showed £81.3m net assets. Co-founder Todd, 49, has a 40.2%
stake worth £121m. We add £20m for other wealth.

2009: £64m, 900= 472= £140m

£20m

Gregory Darling and family Shipping Darling, 57, is the son of the late George
Darling, who founded Gardline Shipping in 1969. Today the Gardline Group's
activities range from marine sciences to satellite communications. In 2008-09 it
made £21.2m profit on £164.5m sales. With nearly £98m net assets, it is worth
£140m.

2009: £120m, 438= 472= £140m

£94m

Tarsem Dhaliwal Frozen food Dhaliwal, 46, joined Iceland Food Group in 1985. In
2004 the business was taken over by former chairman Malcolm Walker (qv).
Dhaliwal is his finance director and has helped revive Iceland. In 2008-09,
profits rose to £86.8m on more than £2 billion sales. Dhaliwal has a stake worth
£139m and other assets.

2009: £46m, 1,198= 472= £140m

£60m

Richard Goulding Internet Goulding, 40, and Simon Perrée (qv)

run the Jersey-based Play. com. The internet retailer lifted turnover in the
year to January 2008 from

£290m to £340m. It should be worth £300m and we value the stakes held by
Goulding and Perrée at £140m apiece.

2009: £80m, 694= 472= £140m

£20m

Sir Angus Grossart Finance Grossart, 73, continues at the helm of Noble
Grossart, the Edinburgh bank he co-founded in 1969, and owns at least 85.6% with
his family. It has £77m net assets and is worth at least £120m. Other interests
include a £2.7m stake in Independent Investment Trust.

2009: £120m, 438= 472= £140m

£10m

Clinton, Spencer and John McCarthy Construction Brothers Spencer, 44, and
Clinton McCarthy, 45, run Churchill Retirement Living, a Hampshire housebuilder
that is buying 60 new sites. In the year to May 2010, it should make a £4.5m
profit. Their father, John, 70, set up McCarthy & Stone, and left in 2004,
making £74.4m. Churchill has been valued at about £120m. There are other assets.

2009: £130m, 406= 472= £140m

£50m

Stewart Milne and family Construction The Stewart Milne Group made a loss in
2008-09 of £27m, the first in 38 years as an Aberdeen housebuilder. Sales were
£275.7m. The group has £108m net assets and is 100% owned by Milne and his
family. We value it at £120m. Milne, 59, chairs Aberdeen FC. There are other
assets.

2009: £90m, 600= 472= £140m

£60m

Simon Perrée Internet Play.com, the Jersey-based internet retailer, was launched
by Perrée, 39, and Richard Goulding (qv)

in 1998. Turnover in the year to January 2008 hit £340m, up from

£290m in 2007 and the business is worth about £300m, valuing the stakes held by
Goulding and Perrée at £140m each.

2009: £80m, 694= 472= £140m Sir Tim Rice Music There are more than 20 Rice shows
in production worldwide, many of them collaborations with Andrew Lloyd Webber
(qv). Rice, 65, has been paid £17m in recent years by Heartaches, his main
company, and his royalties have been shrewdly invested in art.

2009: £140m, 388= 472= £140m John Robinson Property Robinson, 49, retired after
selling his high-end London properties in 2007. He bought them through N&R
Property, which he set up having left Jupiter Asset Management with a £50m
payoff.

2009: £140m, 388= 472= £140m

£20m

Ringo Starr Music Starr, 69, launched his Y Not album in January, a few months
after the whole Beatles catalogue was remastered and repackaged by EMI. The main
Beatles company, Apple Corps, is doing well. In the year to January 2009 it made
a £6.2m profit on £15.7m sales. The drummer's stake is worth £100m. In 2008-09,
his Startling Music made a £1.4m profit on £1.8m sales. We add royalties, the
value of the back catalogue and dividends .

2009: £120m, 438= 482 £139m

£30m

Alasdair Locke Oil services Locke, 56, stepped down as chairman of the Abbot
Group in November, nearly two years after making £120m when he sold the Aberdeen
operation for £906m. He has an insurance business and aim

to develop Dundee waterfront.

2009: £109m, 501= 483 £138m

£39m

Andrew and Paul Gower Computer games War of Legends is Jagex's latest computer
game. It joins more than 40 other free-to-use games. The best known is
RuneScape, started when Andrew Gower, 31, above, was an undergraduate at
Cambridge. He formed Jagex with brother Paul, 33, and a third partner to run the
game. In 2008-09, Jagex saw profits rise 24% to £18.3m on sales of £38.4m. Paul
and Andrew own a 52% stake, worth nearly £130m. There are other assets.

2009: £99m, 566= 484 £137m

£30m

Leonard Polonsky Finance A veteran insurance man, Polonsky received £103m on
cutting his stake in Hanson Global from 75% to the current 42% when the company
he founded floated in 2006. Much of the money went into his charitable
foundation . Born in New York, the British citizen, 83, is now based in Monaco.
Polonsky's remaining stake is worth £107m and he has other assets.

2009: £107m, 507= 485 £136m

£10m

Chris Marshall and family Property Though profits fell in 2008 from

£16.3m to £5m at Marshall's Leeds company, Marshall Holdings, net assets rose
from

£153.7m to almost £160m. It is worth at least £130m to Marshall, 70, and his
family. There is other wealth.

2009: £126m, 425 486= £135m

£5m

Irina Abramovich Divorce The former wife of Roman Abramovich (qv)

received £155m in a 2007 divorce settlement, which included Fyning Hill estate
in West Sussex.

2009: £130m, 406= 486= £135m

£10m

Anthony Brotherton-Ratcliffe and family Construction Croudace Homes made a £1.5m
profit on £88.8m sales in 2009 and the Caterham firm has more than £77m net
assets. It is part of the property-to-housebuilding operation run by the
Brotherton-Ratcliffes. Anthony, 59, and his family own two other companies,
which between them have £89m net assets.

2009: £125m, 426= 486= £135m Sir Richard George and family Food The Georges
ended a 75-year association with the maker of Weetabix when Sir Richard, 66, who
has a home in Scotland, retired as a director of the Northamptonshire business
in 2008. It was bought for £642m in 2003, a deal that netted the family £128m.
The Georges also control Pure Magic Industries, a property, milling and farming
operation .

2009: £135m, 400= 486= £135m

£15m

Guy Johnson Mobile phones Nine years after leaving Carphone Warehouse, Johnson,
46, is involved in property and private equity. He netted £56m in 2004 when
selling shares in the London firm he co-founded with Charles Dunstone (qv)

and David Ross. His remaining stake is worth about £28m.

2009: £120m, 438= 486= £135m

£5m

Sir Tom Jones Music Approaching his 70th birthday, Jones is as busy as ever.
Apart from stints at the MGM Grand in Las Vegas and other casinos and theatres,
the Welsh singer undertook a European tour in 2009, playing 33 dates. His assets
include a large estate in Los Angeles.

2009: £130m, 406= 486= £135m

£30m

Bernard Matthews Turkeys Bernard Matthews Holdings, based near Norwich,
announced 160 job cuts in February. Despite a loss of £4.3m on sales of £335.4m
in 2008, the company had nearly £110m net assets. Matthews, who has recruited
the chef Marco Pierre White to develop new products, stepped down as a director
on his 80th birthday in January. He has other assets.

2009: £105m, 510= 486= £135m

£60m

Sir Peter Ogden Computers Ogden, 62, has a £110m stake in Hatfield-based
Computacenter and £26m of the quoted software company Dealogic. He also has 25%
of MSV Group, which owns Brands Hatch and showed nearly £21m net assets in 2008.
His Ogden Trust donates to good causes.

2009: £75m, 751= 486= £135m

£20m

The Duke of Rutland Land and art Rutland, 50, owns Belvoir Castle in
Leicestershire, its 18,000 acres and Haddon Hall in Derbyshire. The acreage is
worth at least £60m and his art about £120m. We cut its value to £70m after
inheritance tax. Other assets add £5m.

2009: £115m, 474= 486= £135m

£45m

Harold Sher Metal Amalgamated Metal Corporation made a record £67.2m profit on
nearly £977m sales in 2008. Its chief executive, Sher, 63, led a £200m
management buyout in December 2003. The business is now worth £500m, valuing
Sher's stake at £125m. He has other wealth.

2009: £90m, 600= 486= £135m

£45m

Shiraz Dharamshi Tejani and family Paper products The Leicester business LPC
Group, the UK's biggest independent maker of tissuebased hygiene products, is
led by Tejani, 61, and made £15.1m profit in 2009 on sales of £236.1m. The
family also has property and a pharmaceuticals firm.

2009: £90m, 600= 486= £135m

£15m

Alexander and Alan Turner Industry Turner & Co (Glasgow), the
diesel-to-engineering group, has nearly £129m net assets, with brothers
Alexander, 49, and Alan, 44, directors and leading shareholders in the business
built by their father. There are other assets.

2009: £120m, 438= 497 £133m

£43m

Ben and Jos White Computers Ben White, 42, and his brother Jos, 40, above,
founded a trio of tech firms. RBR Networks was sold for £35m in 1998, while the
sale of Gloucester-based MessageLabs in 2008 netted them about £104m. They still
have Star Internet, whose parent, Star Technology, is worth £43m.

2009: £90m, 600= 498= £132m

£40m

Tony Bramall and family Car sales Bramall netted £18m when the Bramall & Jones
dealership was sold last month. Yorkshire entrepreneur Bramall, 74, retains a
£46m stake in Lookers and has property and farming ventures.

2009: £92m, 594= 498= £132m

£2m

Duncan Cameron Internet Cameron, 38, set up Moneysupermarket.com in 1999 with
Simon Nixon (qv)

and made a fortune - Nixon paid him

£162m for most of his share before the Flintshire-based company floated in 2007
.

2009: £130m, 406= 498= £132m

£60m

Colin Giltrap Car sales Giltrap, 70, divides his time between London and New
Zealand, where he has the biggest car dealership. He sold most of his stake in
British luxury car group HR Owen. New Zealand's National Business Review 2009
rich list values him at £132m.

2009: £72m, 782= 431= £150m New entry Jim Ratcliffe Chemicals Ratcliffe is back
after an absence of one year, but at a much reduced value. He is moving his
Ineos business to Switzerland to save (EURO)450m in tax over the next four
years. As head of the world's third largest chemicals operation, he faced a
crisis in 2008 when orders fell 30% and the value of his oil stocks suffered an
£850m writedown. Hampshire-based Ineos had £6.4 billion of debt and extended its
banking covenants. As negotiations with banks extended over the period of the
2009 Rich List, we took the 57-year-old out of our calculations, but he
convinced most of the 230 banks owed money to change the loan terms. The
management team also stripped out £340m of costs and sold some businesses. Ineos
is looking to refinance £900m of debt by selling bonds. Ratcliffe's background
is tailormade for the firm. Having graduated from Birmingham University with a
degree in chemical engineering, he spent a decade in the chemicals industry,
followed by five years in private equity. In 1992, he led the management buyout
of an offshoot of BP. Renamed Inspec, it floated in 1994 and four years later
was taken over in a £611m deal by Laporte. That same year Ratcliffe, who had
left the operation, founded Ineos by heading the £90.5m acquisition of a plant
in Belgium. Last year the firm saw profits leap from (EURO)594m to (EURO)1.22
billion. It employs 15,000 staff in 14 countries. We value Ratcliffe's stake and
other assets, including the Lime Wood hotel in the New Forest, at £150m.

Partnership pays dividends 431= £150m

£30m, 25%s Roger and Diana Jenkins Finance Okay, this bald, 54-year-old banker
is worth a lot of money, but yada, yada, this is the Rich List and that sort of
money is just so many noughts on a spreadsheet.

Impress me. All right - Edinburgh-born Roger, who ran for Scotland, used to work
for Barclays, where he was reputed to be paid more than £40m. There, he came up
with something dubbed "double-dipping" whereby wealthy clients got tax breaks
twice over. Perfectly legal, but still not that interesting. How about the fact
that he rescued Barclays by arranging a £7 billion capital injection from Qatari
investors during the 2008 banking crisis? And recently he set up Dublin-based
Elkstone Capital, which plans to buy portfolios of distressed property loans
from Irish banks. Enough Roger already. Where this really gets interesting is
his brilliant and beautiful wife, Diana, born Sanela Dijana Catic in 1971 in
Sarajevo. When war broke out in 1992 she escaped to London, where she put
herself through night school and scratched a living as a cleaner, waitress and
babysitter before setting up a jewellery stall. In 1999 she married Roger, whom
she met at a gym, and they have two children. But Diana turned her back on
London, declaring in a Tatler interview last December that other wealthy wives
in the city treated her like an "eastern European mail-order bride". Based now
in Malibu, she set up the Neuro Brands drinks line and has been a massive
benefactor to charity in the Balkans. We can see more than £22.7m net assets in
the 2007-08 accounts of Roger's private companies, Inney Investments and D-Sol
Systems. Together the couple are worth £150m.

2009: £120m, 438=

Entries from 501 to 1,000 list individual or family wealth, detailing where and
how it was made, and give last year's valuation and ranking in brackets.
*denotes family wealth 501 £131m

Julia Davey Property. Davey, 53, owns the Angel Group, a London property
operation. The business made a £2.9m profit on £31.5m sales in 2008-09 and is
worth more than £80m. We add £50m for personal assets. (£131m, 405)

502= £130m

Keith Bradshaw* Care homes and car sales. Car dealer Listers of Coventry is
worth £90m and Bradshaw, 66, owns half. He made £21m when the Takare nursing
home business he co-founded was sold in 1997 and he owns property. (£103m, 533=)

Philip and Patricia Brown Media. Brown, 73, and his wife, Patricia, 71, sold
PJB, their scientific publishing firm in London, for £150m in 2003. They have
further net assets in publishing, pharmaceutical and property worth £49m.
(£130m, 406=)

David Crossland* Travel. Crossland, 63, sold Traveljigsaw, an online car hire
broker, in 2008 following the sale of his Colorado estate for £11.5m. He
launched Airtours, which became MyTravel. (£130m, 406=)

Paul Day* Haulage. Day, 51, is managing director of Turners (Soham), a
Newmarketbased haulage and warehousing group worth its £127m net assets figure.
There is other wealth. (£112m, 490=)

Cyril Dennis* Property. Last year, Monaco-based Dennis, 65, spent more than £23m
on the 403-bedroom Le Méridien Beach Plaza hotel in Monte Carlo, and in nearby
Antibes he is converting the former Le Provençal hotel into 60 apartments. He
sold a 3.3-acre site on the Isle of Dogs for £47m in September 2006. (£130m,
406= )

John Dunsdon* Property. Esher-based property company Coldunell has net assets of
£112.2m. The business is run by Dunsdon, 57, and owned by his family and trusts
and we value it at £100m, adding £30m for other assets. (£130m,406=)

Sir Jack Hayward Property. Hayward sold his stake in the Grand Bahama Port
Authority last year. The price was not disclosed but Hayward, 86, was offered
£87m. Now living mainly in the Bahamas, he has homes in London, New York and the
Scottish Highlands. (£120m, 438=)

John Hindle* Property. Hindle, 75, runs Sale developer Brookhouse and has a
£240m portfolio. We include the family's stake and property. (£90m, 600=)

Ron Jelley* Construction. Jelson, the Leicester housebuilder led by Jelley, 83,
has net assets of £106.5m. The family has other property and assets. (£60m,
924=)

Sir Martin Laing* Property and construction. Laing, 68, the last family chairman
of the John Laing operation, stepped down in 2002. Family trusts also own
Eskmuir Properties. These interests take the Laings to £130m. (£115m, 474=)

Ian McGlinn Retailing and hotels. McGlinn, a Scot, saw his £4,000 Body Shop
stake grow to £137m, and bought into the Hotel du Vin chain, sold for £66m.
(£130m, 406=)

Andrew Michael Internet. Michael, 30 and living in Cheltenham, dropped out of
school at 17 to develop internet-hosting firm Fasthosts, pocketing £45m when he
sold it. He has reinvested. (£35m, 1,550=)

Terence Mordaunt Docks. City suitors are queuing to buy Bristol's dock
operations, owned by Mordaunt, 62, and David Ord (qv). Mordaunt has equity of
60%, worth £120m, and other assets. (£130m, 406=)

Robert Palmer Oil services. Palmer, 42, owns Bury St Edmunds-based RP Valves,
Europe's leading supplier and distributor of valves for the oil, gas and
petrochemical industries. The company is worth £124m and past salaries add £6m.
(£75m, 751=)

Kirit and Meena Pathak Food. Associated British Foods, the owner of Wigan-based
Patak's spice brand, has relaunched it with new recipes and a TV advertising
campaign focusing on the Pathak family heritage. The family sold up in 2007 for
£200m. Under Kirit, 57, and his wife Meena, 53, the company forged ahead. Kirit
is chairman of ABF's world food division. (£130m, 406=)

517= £129m

Richard Koch Internet gambling. Koch, 59, struck gold with Betfair, the online
betting exchange valued at £1.5 billion, following a deal with the Japanese
SoftBank operation. Koch has a stake worth £95m. He has received £27m cash and
has other assets, including a holding in private group Zola hotels. (£129m, 422)

Sir Richard Sutton* Land. Sutton, 72, and his family have valuable acreage in
Lincolnshire, London, the West Country and America. His family firm, Sir Richard
Sutton Settled Estates, showed £124m net assets in 2008-09 (£115m, 474=)

519= £128m

Nigel Doughty Finance. Doughty, 52, gave the Labour party £1m in 2009 and has
invested millions in Championship football club Nottingham Forest. He runs
Doughty Hanson, the West End private equity business, where his stake is worth
at least £125m. (£119m, 471=)

David and Heather Stevens Insurance. Stevens, 48, and his wife, Heather, 52, are
founder managers of the motor insurance firm Admiral, with a £120m stake. There
is other wealth and the couple established their Waterloo Foundation with £100m
of Admiral shares. (£102m, 535= )

521 £127m

Matti and Miriam Kraus Property. Husband and wife Matti, 67, and Miriam Kraus,
68, own Pall Mall Investments, worth its net asset figure of £125.6m. We add
£1.4m for dividends. (£100m, 540=)

522 £126m

John Seddon* Construction and golf clubs. Cheshire-based Seddon Group is
involved in property development and running golf clubs. Seddon, 75, represents
the family that owns the business. The family also owns Seddon Properties.
(£85m, 657=)

523= £125m

John Apthorp* Frozen food and wine. Apthorp, 75 today, built the Watford-based
Majestic Wine Warehouse chain. He set up Majestic after his family made £70m
from the sale of the Bejam frozen-food operation. (£120m, 438=)

Bill Archer DIY. Archer, 65, founded Crewe-based Focus DIY chain with Greg
Stanley (qv)

before selling it three years ago for £1 to a private equity group that took
over its £174m debt. He had earlier made more than £73m by selling part of his
stake. He also bought and sold the Wickes operation. (£125m, 426=)

John and William Asprey Jewellery.

See panel on page 59

The Baylis family Property. JT Baylis jointly developed the giant mall at Cribbs
Causeway retail centre, near Bristol. The company, founded by the late Jack
Baylis, reported £5.3m profit on £10.9m sales in 2007-08, with net assets of
£159m. Baylis left £96m in his will in 2006. After tax, the family is worth
£125m. (£125m, 426=)

Ad man on the ball

523= £125m

£42m, 51%s

Sir Martin Sorrell Advertising

Though more of a cricket fan himself, MCC member Sorrell will be keeping a close
eye on the football World Cup this summer, hoping it delivers a global
advertising boost. He described 2009 as a "brutal" year for WPP, his giant
advertising group, with profits sliding by 21.4% to £662.6m and revenues down by
8.1%. WPP shares did well from mid-2009, however, and the company is worth £8.1
billion. He moved its headquarters to Dublin in 2008, claiming Ireland's low
rate of corporation tax meant that WPP would save up to £80m. The 65-year-old
nearly drowned in a sea of debt after transforming Wire and Plastic Products, a
Kent firm making supermarket baskets, into an advertising empire through the
takeover of J Walter Thompson and Ogilvy Group in the late 1980s. Sorrell, a
Cambridge economics graduate and Harvard MBA, brought the business back from the
brink after the 1991-92 recession and today it claim

to be the world's largest communications services group. In 2003, his 33-year
marriage to Lady Sandra Sorrell, now worth £32m, ended in divorce and he had to
sell £12.5m of shares to help fund her settlement. In 2008, he married the
Italian Cristiana Falcone, a director of the World Economic Forum. Sorrell's
stake in WPP is worth £111m. With other assets and past salaries, we value him
at £125m.

2009: £83m, 687

523= continued from page 57 £125m

Richard Chenevix-Trench Finance. Chenevix-Trench, 51, is one of the four
co-founders of London hedge fund Sloane Robinson. The Financial Times said he
made £82m in 2008 alone. (£120m, 438=)

Eric Clapton Music. The 65-year-old maestro has earned more than £120m since
1989, and we add the proceeds of his back catalogue. (£120m, 438=)

The Goodliffe family Business services.

The £120m

OCS Group, based in Surrey, is owned by the descendants of its founder,
Frederick Goodliffe. (£80m, 694=)

David Reiss* Fashion. Reiss, 66, opened his first boutique in London. The
eponymous high street chain has more than 90 shops worldwide. (£105m, 510=)

Lord Saatchi and Charles Saatchi Advertising and art. Charles, 66, and his
brother, Maurice (now Lord Saatchi), 63, built the Saatchi & Saatchi advertising
agency. Charles also owns a valuable collection of art. (£120m, 438=)

Michael and Robert Slowe Property .

Cousins Michael, 75, and Robert, 73, are directors of the family-owned J Leon, a
London property company. (£95m, 575=)

Sir Martin Sorrell Advertising. See panel on page 57 Stef and Stelio Stefanou
Construction.

Stef, 68, runs Doyle, the Hertfordshire construction group. Stelio, 57, made
£115m when its maintenance operation was sold. The brothers funded a robotic
surgery centre for cancer treatment at the Lister hospital, Stevenage. (£125m,
426=)

536 £123m

Jon Aisbitt Finance. Aisbitt's stake in Man Group, the London hedge fund, is
worth £4.1m. In 1999, he made £80m from the Goldman Sachs flotation. (£95m,
575=)

537= £122m

Paul and Jeremy Eakin* Medical supplies. Tom Eakin founded TG Eakin in Northern
Ireland. The company is now largely in the hands of his sons, Paul, 47, and
Jeremy, 42. (£92m, 594=)

Jonathan Ruffer Finance. Ruffer, 58, owns half of the London-based Ruffer
Investment Management, which we value at £220m. (£112m, 490=)

Michael Shanly Housebuilding. Shanly, 64, founded his housebuilding operation in
1970 and now owns development companies worth £110m. (£82m, 688=)

540= £120m

Iqbal Ahmed* Food. The family has two main operations in Manchester: catering
supplier Ibco and Seamark, a frozen-food processor. Ahmed, 53, heads the
operation. (£120m, 438=)

Roger Ames Music. Ames, 60, has joined US entertainment group Ticketmaster as
international chief executive. He worked at EMI, Warner and London Records,
where he owned a significant stake when it was taken over for £140m. (£90m,
600=)

The Duke of Beaufort Land and art.

Beaufort, 82, owns the 52,000-acre Badminton estate. We value his land at £85m
and add £35m for his art, business and other assets. (£115m, 474=)

Bart Becht Cleaning products. Dutchman Becht, 53, is chief executive of Reckitt
Benckiser, the £25 billion Berkshire-based maker of household names such as
Dettol and Mr Sheen. Becht's charitable trust has £102m of Reckitt shares.
(£80m, 694=)

Yevgeny Chichvarkin Mobile phones. Moscow-born Chichvarkin, 35, made £120m from
mobile firm Euroset. He moved to London, and Russia has been seeking his
extradition for an alleged kidnapping and blackmail. (New entry)

Gordon Crawford Computers. Crawford made £76m when London Bridge Software was
sold in 2004, plus £33m from earlier share sales. The 55-year-old has lent money
to the Labour party. (£120m, 438=)

Andrew Creighton Property. Creighton, 48, has a 50% stake in Belfast-based
William Ewart Properties. There are £145m of net assets attributable to him, but
we value him cautiously. (£90m, 600=)

Charles Davies Finance. Davies is head of Link Asset & Securities Company, the
London broker sold to Michael Spencer's (qv)

Icap in 2008. The 40-year-old has made about £105m from the performancerelated
deal, with dividends. (£97m, 570=)

George Davies Retailing. Davies, 68, has sunk £20m into GIVe, a chain of fashion
stores aimed at women over 30. GIVe is his fourth retail brand after Next,
George and Per Una. (£105m, 510=)

Brian DeZille* Knitwear and health clubs.

DeZille, 76, and his family netted £120m for their 80% stake in the Sweater Shop
retail chain. They have a Jersey investment operation and other interests
including Carrefour Health Clubs. (£115m, 474=)

Lucian Freud Art. A self-portrait by Freud, showing the artist with a black eye
after a fight with a taxi driver, sold for £2,841,250 at Sotheby's in February.
The 87-year-old has admitted to once being in £500,000 debt to the Kray twins.
(£120m, 438=)

Ronnie Frost Recruitment. The stake held in Hays, the London recruitment agency,
by its former chairman, Frost, 74, is worth £83m. He has other assets. (£92m,
594=)

John Guthrie* Property. Guthrie, 73, chairs Broadland Properties in Scarborough,
which is worth £110m. The family has other assets. (£125m, 426=)

Rupert Hambro* Finance. The family, led by Rupert, 66, sold its interest in the
Hambro merchant bank for £50m. There are other assets. (£100m, 540=)

Philip Hulme Computers. Hulme, 61, has a stake worth £88m in Computacenter, the
Hatfield-based provider of IT services, and other assets. (£61m, 921=)

Hugh Irvine* Cheese. Irvine, 72, and his family owned the Lactalis McLelland
cheese operation until 2004. His two sons now own a Glasgow-based children's
clothing retailer. (£100m, 540=)

Fawn and India Rose James* Inheritance. Sisters Fawn, 24, and India Rose James,
18, are the granddaughters of Soho property owner and adult magazine publisher
Paul Raymond, who died in 2008, leaving a huge estate. (£120m, 438=)

Mark Lowe Finance. Lowe, 60, made his fortune at a Spanish hedge fund. His
Mayfair firm Nomos Capital Partners was put into liquidation in late 2009, owing
to the economic climate. (New entry)

Louise MacBain Publishing. Londonbased MacBain, 51, built a publishing
conglomerate in Canada with her former husband, John. After their divorce she
went into art publishing. (£120m, 438=)

David Roberts Property. Roberts, 53, has a £110m stake in London-based Edinburgh
House Estates and a collection of 1,500 artworks. (£105m, 510=)

Chris Rokos Finance. Rokos, 39, a senior partner at London-based Brevan Howard
Asset Management, earned £20m-£30m in the last financial year alone. (£90m,
600=)

Phyllis Somers Property. Somers, 88, the widow of Nat Somers, a Jersey-based
tycoon who sold Southampton airport for £50m in 1988, donates to many charitable
causes, including London's Great Ormond Street hospital. (£100m, 540=)

Gerard Versteegh* Property. Londonbased Swede Versteegh, 49, is a director of a
number of asset-rich firms, led by Gestrix, which had net assets of £191m in
2006. (£120m, 438=)

Peter Wood Insurance. Wood led a management buyout in February of the
controlling 70% stake in Esure held by Lloyds Banking Group. Wood, 63, chairs
the Surrey-based business. (£120m, 438=)

564= £119m

Elliott Bernerd Property. Chelsfield Partners, the London-based property company
chaired by Bernerd, 65, lost £101.3m in 2008. (£219m, 259)

Jeff Smith Engineering and property. AIM Aviation, the Southampton engineering
firm, is chaired by Smith, 64. His main wealth is in property company Proudreed,
where he has a £90m stake. (£65m, 863=)

566= £118m

Bill Gredley* Property and racing. Apart from his Newmarket racing interests,
Gredley, 77, and his family own Unex Group Holdings, a property firm worth its
net assets figure of £102.7m. (£95m, 575=)

Tony Khalastchi* Property. Khalastchi, 49, sold two DIY store sites in February
for £17.8m. His family's two property groups, London-based Flodrive and
Strandpark Properties, are worth their net assets figure of £103.4m. (£105m,
510=)

David Kirch Property. Jersey-based Kirch, 73, made a fortune in London
residential property, and in 2008 sold properties to Irish investors for £48m.
He runs Channel Hotels and Properties. (£148m, 378=)

Stuart Monk* Property. Stockton-based property firm Jomast, run by Monk, 60, and
owned by his family, is worth £115m. There is other wealth. (£99m, 566=)

570= £117m Nicholas Berry* Finance. Berry, 67, is the younger son of the late
Lord Hartwell, who sold the Telegraph newspaper titles to Lord Black in 1985.
His family has a 91% stake in Stancroft Trust, the London-based investment
company that Berry, based in Switzerland, chairs. (£125m, 426=)

Hermann Hauser Computers. We clip £8m off Hauser, 61, who runs Amadeus Capital
Partners investment firm, for his funding of a centre for entrepreneurship at
Cambridge University. (£107m, 507=)

Ian MacKechnie* Finance. Scotsman MacKechnie, 66, and his family own Amscot
Financial, a chain of chequecashing outlets in Florida, worth £111m. There are
other assets. (£87m, 648=)

573 £116m

Tom and Alan Fergusson Fuel distribution. Stirling-based Fergusson Group, the
solid fuel supplier, is run and owned by Tom, 47, and Alan Fergusson, 43. It is
worth about £110m. (New entry)

574= £115m

Robert Carter* Construction. Carter, 56, is chairman of Norwich-based
construction group RG Carter, which had to cut 268 jobs after a fall in profits
in 2008. (£105m, 510)

Michael Cowan* Finance. Cowan, 57, is a director of Savile Row-based Silchester
International Investors, and has an £83m stake. (£108m, 503=)

Sir Tom Farmer Property and football. Edinburgh tycoon Farmer, 69, who owns 90%
of Hibernian FC, made his money with Kwik Fit, collecting £78m when it was sold.
He diversified into property. (£110m, 492=)

Everard Goodman Property. Goodman, 78, left Yorkshire to start work in London,
making £130m when he sold Tops Estates five years ago. He has given away
millions to charity. (£105m, 510=)

Andrew Page* Car parts. Leeds-based Page, a vehicle parts distributor run by the
57-year-old, was sold for £100m in March. The family has other assets. (£55m,
986=)

The Earl of Pembroke Land and art. The 18th Earl, 31, lives at the 14,000-acre
Wilton House near Salisbury. His art is worth £75m after tax and the estate is
valued at £40m. (£105m, 510=)

Julian Richer Retailing. Specialist hi-fi retailer Richer Sounds is worth £50m,
and its 51-year-old owner has a £45m property portfolio and other assets.
(£105m, 510=)

Barry Rubery Electronics. Rubery, 62, set up the Bradford-based software and
computer company Pace Micro, which floated in 1996. (£95m, 575=)

Earl Spencer Land. The earl's father, who died in 1992, left £88m in his will,
although much of that was tied up in the 8,500-acre Althorp estate in
Northamptonshire and its art treasures. (£91m, 599)

Greg Stanley* DIY. Stanley, 64, sold his family's DIY chain as part of a £130m
deal, then picked up at least £100m when he sold his stake in Focus, the
Crewe-based DIY business. (£115m, 474=)

Jacob and Niels Stolt-Nielsen Shipping and seafood. Stolt-Nielsen, a Norwegian
shipping and seafood operation, is worth £630m. Jacob, 47, and Niels
Stolt-Nielsen, 45, who live in London, have a £110m stake and other wealth.
(£55m, 986=)

Sparkling success

523= £125m £35m, 39%

John and William Asprey Jewellery

Bling is not our thing, declares the luxury retailer William & Son. The plush
Mayfair store nonetheless has enough sparkle to dazzle the average highstreet
shopper, as would be expected from a business run by the seventh generation of
the Asprey jewellery family. William, 44, sells beautiful things to the
beautiful people and has a royal warrant to emphasise the high-class clientele.
Think sterling silver Martini goblets for £995, purple leather backgammon sets
for £1,550 and diamond-studded cufflinks - a snip at £8,100. The hunting,
shooting and fishing set are catered for with bespoke guns and rifles plus
associated tweed garments. Watches are a favourite of the proprietor, whose wife
Lucy, pictured with him above, has received a select number as gifts. Wine is
another passion - he is said to keep 2,000 bottles. Asprey, a former army
officer who has homes in London and Berkshire, set up shop in 1999. Four years
earlier, Prince Jefri Bolkiah of Brunei had bought the family jewellery company
chaired by father John, 72, inset. The Aspreys collected more than £100m for
their stake in the operation, which began in 1781. Business is booming at
William & Son: the parent company, WRA (Guns), made £5.3m profit on £10.3m sales
in 2008-09. The family also has property and bloodstock interests, including the
Gildridge Bloodstock and JRA Properties with £2m of net assets between them.
With the success of WRA (Guns), we raise the Aspreys by £35m.

2009: £90m, 600=

523= £125m New entry

Jo Bradwell  Pharmaceuticals

Bradwell, 64, a professor of medicine at Birmingham University, founded
healthcare company The Binding Site in 1983. The Kings Heath-based firm has
developed Freelite, used for diagnosing multiple myeloma (MM), a form of bone
marrow cancer, and Hevylite, which reduces the need for painful biopsies. MM,
which used to be confined mainly to people over 60 but is becoming more common
among younger age groups, affects about 20,000 people in the UK. More than
15,000 cases are being diagnosed each year in the United States. The success of
Freelite, which not only detects sufferers but can increase life expectancy by
providing doctors with a sensitive test to the effectiveness of anti-MM drugs,
saw the company enjoy sales of £39m in the year to September 2008 with profits
of £5.8m. The autoimmune arm of the business manufactures a range of diagnostic
assays and reagents used in hospital laboratories worldwide, to help diagnose
and monitor the treatment of diseases including antiphospholipid syndrome,
vasculitis and coeliac disease. It saw revenues of about £14m in 2008. Last June
Bradwell agreed to sell the subsidiary for about £80m. Binding Site said the
sale would enable the company to focus its efforts and resources on the highly
successful serum protein business, which has been growing at more than 40% a
year. Bradwell and his trusts own about 53% of the company, which was valued at
£240m before the subsidiary sale. He is worth £125m.

574= continued from page 59 £115m

Michael Stone* Finance. Stone, 73, joined ED&F Man in 1957, and helped turn what
had been a sugar trader and the navy's grog supplier into a top London hedge
fund. We can see businesses with £47m net assets owned by Stone, his family or
where he has a sizeable stake. (£104m, 531=)

Kenneth Townsley Leisure. Townsley, 64, made £84m from the sale of the Gold
Medal Travel operation to Thomas Cook. He started Trident Travel in a rented
Blackpool shop, from where it grew rapidly and was renamed. (£60m, 924=)

The Walduck family Hotels. Imperial London Hotels has net assets of £103m. The
Walducks own it all. (£85m, 657=)

588 £14m

Peter Sutherland Finance. Former BP chairman Sutherland, 64 today, had a £87.5m
stake when investment bank Goldman Sachs floated in 1995, and shares have
recovered sharply. (£74m, 778=)

589= £113m

Eric Gadsden Property. Gadsden's Chesham-based company, WE Black, is worth £70m.
Gadsden, 65, has £41m of net assets in two other firms, as well as racing
interests. (£113m, 489)

Peter and Michael Kane* Delivery services. Business Post Group changed its name
in October 2009 to UK Mail. Peter, 63, is chairman of the Slough-based
organisation and brother Michael, 60, a director. The family stake is worth
£101m and there is other wealth. (£90m, 600=)

Sunny George Verghese Food. Verghese, 50, established a cashew-distribution
project in Nigeria that became Olam International, where he is chief executive.
He is a British citizen but lives in Singapore and the 2009 Forbes Singapore
rich list values him at £113m. (New entry)

592= £112m

Peter Dawson* Property. Dawson, 57, runs Consolidated Property Wilmslow, an
Alderley Edge developer worth its net assets figure of £50.9m. He is also a
director of Gemsupa, which had £58.5m net assets in 2008-09. (£78m, 742=)

Steve Gibson Transport. In 2008, profits at Gibson O'Neill hit a record £25.8m.
Gibson, 52, chairman of Middlesbrough FC, made his money through his haulage
company, Bulkhaul. Gibson O'Neill owns Bulkhaul and his stake is worth £105m,
other interests adding £7m. (£82m, 688=)

Jonathan Hitchins* Construction. Robert Hitchins Group, the Cheltenham-based
developer, is worth £87m. Hitchins, 59, as chairman, represents the family. We
add £25m for other assets. (£90m, 600=)

595 £111m

Bruce Robertson* Retailing. The West Country-based Trago Mills discount store
chain and a development firm owned by Robertson, 57, had net assets of £104m in
2008. There is other wealth. (£82m, 688=)

596= £110m

William Ainscough* Property. Ainscough, 61, owns Merseyside property firm
Langtree Group, which had £71m assets in 2008-09, and Wain Group, which made
£5.8m profit in 2007-08. (£120m, 438=)

Rod Aldridge Business services. Aldridge is a former chairman of Capita, the
outsourcing firm. He retains a stake worth £43m. Aldridge, 62, has made big
gains from private equity investments, although his London-based Aldridge
Foundation helps clip his wealth back. (£99m, 566=)

Ursula and Wilfried Bechtolsheimer Property. The daughter of Karl-Heinz Kipp,
who the German magazine Manager says has a £2.25 billion fortune, Ursula, 58,
now lives with her husband, Wilfried, 61, in Gloucestershire, where she runs an
equestrian operation. (£105m, 510=)

Martin Birrane Motor racing and property. Birrane, 74, bought the Lola racing
car operation in 1997 and is keen to get back into Formula One. He made his
money in property through the Peer Group. Birrane also owns Mondello Park racing
circuit in Co Kildare. (£109m, 501=)

David Blood Finance. Generation Investment Management, the London ethical
investment operation, took a stake in the Ocado internet groceries business in
2009. Generation was set up in 2004 by former US vice-president Al Gore and
former Goldman Sachs chief executive, Blood, 51. (£70m, 793=)

Robert Bourne and Sally Greene Property and theatre. Bourne, 59, sold stakes in
companies such as Ex-Lands and Clubhaus. He owns Happybadge Projects and has a
flat in Mayfair. His wife, Greene, 55, is chief executive of Old Vic
Productions. (£110m, 492=)

The Marquess of Bute Land and art. About 36,000 visitors flock to Bute's Mount
Stuart seat on the Scottish island every year. The family also has a huge art
collection. Bute, 52 tomorrow, has asset wealth of £70m and £40m of liquid
assets. (£115m, 474=)

Robin Clark* Property. Clark, 72, heads Taylor Clark, the London-based property,
farming, hotels and investment group, valued at £150m. The Clark family's stake
is worth £110m. (£86m, 655=)

Wilf Corrigan Computers. The son of a Liverpool docker, Corrigan, 72, sold
shares worth £78m in LSI Logic and had a £35m stake when he retired from the
Silicon Valley operation. (£110m, 492= )

Clive Cowdery Finance. Cowdery, 46, sold the life assurance assets of his
Resolution Group to Pearl, picking up £145m for his stake. (£102m, 535=)

Peter Dean* Egg production. Noble Foods, the UK's biggest supplier of eggs,
branched out into puddings in January, spending more than £30m buying the
dessert-maker Gü. Noble, led by Dean, 65, and based in Tring, Hertfordshire, is
worth £120m and we value the Deans at £110m. (New entry)

Tommy Dreelan* Industry. Dreelan, 53, from Wexford, set up PSL, an Aberdeen firm
specialising in pumping and oil pipeline services, with brothers Mike, Sean and
Ciaran. They sold PSL for £45m and developed Qserv as an oil and gas services
company, selling it for £88m. (£65m, 863=)

Glenn Earle Finance. The chief operating officer for Europe at Goldman Sachs,
Earle, 52, had a £40m-plus stake at the time of the 1999 float. Past bonuses add
to his wealth. (£80m, 694=)

Heinrich Feldman* Property. Feldman, 74, is a London property owner. His main
holding company is Inremco 26 with net assets of £104.5m in 2007-08. He has
other interests. (£105m, 510=)

Barry and Robin Gibb Music. The surviving Bee Gees, Barry, 63, and Robin Gibb,
60, celebrated the band's 50th anniversary in 2009. With no concerts last year,
our rock expert keeps the brothers at a conservative £110m. (£110m, 492=)

Paul Gregg and family Leisure. Scarborough-born Gregg, 68, sold the Apollo
Leisure chain in 1999 - his family had a stake worth £98m. He later bought back
the cinemas and bingo halls for £22m. (£105m, 510=)

Eric Grove Property. Catesby Property Group is developing a £200m business and
retail park near the M18 in Doncaster. Grove, 80, runs the company and has
retail parks in the Midlands and residential developments in Jersey. (£108m,
503=)

David Instance* Industry. The family, led by Instance, 71, made £50m from the
Kent company Inprint Systems. It has 90% of Eschmann Holdings, a medical
equipment business worth £45m. (£60m, 924=)

Alan Jackson Mobile phones. Intercity Mobile, founded by Jackson, 57, in
Birmingham in 1985, is a subsidiary of Giftsign, which has £65.2m net assets. He
has other wealth. (£87m, 648=)

Luke Johnson Finance and greyhound tracks. Former Channel 4 chairman Johnson,
48, is nicknamed Cool Hand Luke in the City. His Risk Capital Partners owns
East, the fashion chain and GRA dog tracks. (£100m, 540=)

Adam and Samuel Kaye* Restaurants. The Prezzo pizza chain is the creation of
Kaye brothers Adam, 41, and Sam, 38. The family's stake is worth £52m. The
brothers also have the Dim T chain. (£89m, 644=)

Jurjen and Hugo Kruisinga Finance. Jurjen, 56, and his brother Hugo, 48, are
Dutch financiers who live in East Sussex. Their father, Roelof, founded the
Cross Options company. They are valued at £110m in the 2009 Dutch Quote 500 rich
list. (New entry)

Peter Levine Oil and steel. Levine, 54, netted at least £80m when Imperial
Energy, a London-based oil explorer, was taken over in 2008. Shortly after, he
sold nearly £26m of shares. (£95m, 575=)

Henry Lumley* Finance. Surrey-based Lumley, 79, chaired Edward Lumley Holdings,
sold for £133m. (£100m, 540=)

Jack Morris* Business services. The Morris family, led by Jack, 53, made £25m
when they sold Earls Court and Olympia in London. They own the Business Design
Centre in Islington. (£95m, 575=)

Sir David Murray Property and football. Murray, 58, bowed out as chairman of
Glasgow Rangers FC and is eager to find a buyer for the debt-ridden club. His
wealth comes from the Murray International metals-to-property firm. (£500m, 88=)

Christina Ong Retailing. Ong, 62, runs Club 21, whose holdings include Ishop,
Asia's biggest Apple reseller, and a £64m stake in Mulberry. She lives in
Singapore and London. (£69m, 841=)

Sir Ridley and Tony Scott Films. The new Robin Hood movie was directed by Sir
Ridley, 72, from South Shields. His films have grossed £1.5 billion at the box
office and brother Tony, 65,made Top Gun. (£105m, 510=)

Joe Walker* Biscuits. Walkers Shortbread, the Speyside firm led by Walker, 72,
is worth £80m. (£82m, 688=)

Eric Watson Finance and white goods. London-based New Zealander Watson, 51, ran
UK white goods firm Powerhouse. He has investments in finance. (£110m, 492=)

Nick Wheeler and Chrissie Rucker Retailing. Husband-and-wife team Wheeler, 45,
and Rucker, 41, own the shirt retailer Charles Tyrwhitt, worth £40m, and the
£65m White Company, which sells towels and bedding. (£63m, 906=)

627= £108m

Phil Collins Music. While 59-year-old Collins no longer records best-selling
albums with Genesis and as a solo artist, his cumulative salaries since 1986
have totalled £182m. (£108m, 503=)

Anwar and Yakub Patel Pharmacies. Lancashire brothers Anwar Patel, 55, and
Yakub, 56, still own 30 pharmacies after selling more than 100 for £130m in
2005. (£108m, 503=)

629= £107m

Ken Cheevers* Car sales and construction. Cheevers, 74, is building the
McLaughlin & Harvey construction firm in Co Antrim, having made his first
fortune in the motor business. (£40m, 1,348=)

Simon Karimzadeh* Property .

Karimzadeh, 47, runs London-based property business Eskar International, which
we value at £100m. (£107m, 507=)

Lennie and Ian McGeoch Retailing. Mackays Stores, the Paisley-based clothing
empire, is run by Ian, 64, who bought out brother Lennie, 69, in 2001.(£97m,
570=)

Making profit from adversity

646= £103m £66m, 178%

Warren Haskins and family Retailing

The revival of the "make do and mend" mentality that accompanies a recession has
been good news for Haskins, the man behind HobbyCraft, with his fortune up £66m
on last year. Haskins, 61, is managing director of the Dorset-based Haskins
Group. He took over the family garden centre business in 1969 at the age of 20,
following the death of his father. It had an annual turnover of £17,000 and
seven staff. In 1995, Haskins diversified from garden centres into HobbyCraft,
the UK's only dedicated chain of arts and crafts superstores. It now has 45
stores and an online shop, with 12 more outlets due to open this year., catering
for everything from card making to haberdashery, jewellery making to cake
decoration. HobbyCraft and Haskins Holdings collectively made £8.2m profit on
£92.4m sales in their 2008-09 accounts. They also have nearly £33m net assets.
They are owned by Haskins and family trusts. There has been press speculation
that a management buyout could take place at HobbyCraft, backed by private
equity to help fund future growth. It is being stalked by larger companies and
has been valued at £75m. We value the two businesses at £100m. Past salaries and
assets add £3m.

2009: £37m, 1,513=

632 £106m

Rory Sweet Computers. Sweet, 43, runs Simian Group, a Cirencester-based computer
firm worth £80m. There is other wealth. (£74m, 778=)

633= £105m

Jerome Booth Finance. Booth, 46, has a £99.4m share in the profitable Ashmore
Group, which deals in emerging-market debt. He has other assets. (£62m, 910=)

Frank Burke* Property. Cabretta Holdings, a London construction company, is the
parent for the BDL Group, run by Irishman Burke, 61. (£105m, 510=)

David Gorton Finance. The London Diversified hedge fund is valued at £100m.
Co-founder Gorton, 46, has a stake worth £60m and other wealth. (£66m, 860=)

Eric Herd Frozen food. Herd, 52, has turned Farmfoods, the Scottish meat
business he inherited from his father, into a £100m business. There are
additional assets. (£45m, 1,203=)

Marcus Margulies* Watches. Margulies, 67, is chairman of London-based Almar,
which sells watches, handbags and branded products. (£45m, 1,203=)

Neil McRoberts* Debt recovery. Stockport debt collection firm Moorcroft Group,
run by founder McRoberts, 67, is worth £75m. There is other wealth. (£105m,
510=)

John Morphet Leisure. Morphet, 55, owns Lancashire-based Pure Leisure Group,
which includes nine holiday and caravan parks, two golf estates and a 750-acre
estate in Barbados. (£85m, 657=)

Mark Poole Finance. Poole, 48, has a £58.4m stake in BlueBay Asset Management,
the London hedge fund he started with Hugh Willis (qv). Share sales add to his
wealth. (£40m, 1,348=)

Peter Prowting* Property. Prowting, 85, retains Prowting Investments, having
sold the Uxbridge-based family property business to Westbury in 2002 for £88.5m.
(£105m, 510=)

Gordon Sanders* Care homes. Sanders, 64, and his family own Essex-based Runwood
Homes, which has 26 residential homes and provides home-based care. It has £108m
assets. (£105m, 510=)

Rod Stewart Music. He may be 65 but Stewart, who has homes in Essex and America,
is about to start a 24-date European tour. Our rock expert values him at £105m.
(£100m, 540=)

Hugh Willis Finance. Share sales add to the fortune of Willis, 50, who has a
£58.4m stake in BlueBay Asset Management, the London hedge fund he started in
2001 with Mark Poole (qv). (£40m, 1,348=)

645 £104m

Albert Hay* Property. Hay, 63, and his family have a £64m stake in Mayfair
Property Group, Capital & City and sister group Capital & City Properties. There
is additional wealth. (£92m, 594=)

646= £103m

Warren Haskins* Retailing. See panel on page 60

Rashid and Aziz Tayub* Food distribution. The Crown Crest distribution operation
based in Leicester was started by Rashid, 61, and is now run by his brother,
Aziz, 54. It is worth £100m. (£70m, 793=)

648= £102m

Aidan Heavey Oil and gas exploration. Irishman Heavey, 57, has an £85m stake in
Tullow Oil, the oil and gas explorer he founded, and other wealth. (£45m,
1,203=)

Jeremy Herrmann Finance. Herrmann, 40, has a £90m stake in London-based Ferox
Capital Management and other assets. (New entry)

Tamara Mellon Fashion. Mellon, 42, bought Jimmy Choo, the upmarket women's shoe
brand, in 1996. A 51% stake was sold in 2004 and a takeover in 2007 netted her
£25m. (£102m, 535=)

Brian and Alan Stannah Lifts. Brothers Brian, 74, and Alan, 70, head £90m
Hampshire-based stairlifts firm Stannah. There is other wealth. (£102m, 535=)

652 £101m

Lady Nina Bracewell-Smith* Football and hotels. Bracewell-Smith, 54, plans to
sell a £91m stake in Arsenal football club. Her family also has proceeds from
the sale of the Park Lane hotel. (£85m, 657=)

653= £100m

Roger Baines* Delivery services. Baines, 62, sold the Amtrak delivery business
for £86m in 1998. He has a Channel Islands home, a stud in Somerset and several
companies. (£95m, 575=)

Audrey Baxter* Food. Baxter, 48, runs Scottish food group WA Baxter, which her
parents turned into one of Britain's bestknown brands. We value it at £95m and
there is other family wealth. (£73m, 780=)

Anton Bilton* Property. Developer Bilton, 45, has an £11m stake in London-based
Raven Mount and £32m in Raven Russia. His grandfather, Percy, sold a £79.4m
stake in a property empire. (£90m, 600=)

Judah Binstock Property. One of the biggest landowners in Marbella, Binstock,
81, started investing in London property in the 1960s. (£100m, 540=)

David Bowie Music. Bowie, 63, has spoken out against the potential closure of 6
Music, the BBC's alternative music radio station. The British star, who lives in
New York, is worth £100m. (£100m, 540=)

Ely Calil Inheritance and finance. Calil, 64, a Lebanese oil trader, inherited
£20m from his father. He has interests in property and finance. Calil has homes
in London, Switzerland and Nigeria. (£100m, 540=)

Simon Clarke* Property. Clarke, 45, and his family have a £65m stake in
Midlandsbased St Modwen Properties, founded by his father, plus other wealth.
(£90m, 600=)

Jeremy Coller Finance. Coller, 51, pulled off a coup in September when his
Londonbased Coller Capital led the £130m takeover of a portfolio of private
equity investments from 3i. (£90m, 600=)

Charles Corfield Computers. Cambridge graduate Corfield made at least £50m when
Adobe Systems bought his Frame Technology in 1995. He has other investments.
(£100m, 540=)

Anthony de Mulder* Meat. The UK's biggest meat renderer, Prosper de Mulder, has
become a leading waste food-recycling specialist. The Doncaster firm, led by de
Mulder, 66, is worth £95m. (£130m, 406=)

Rodger Dudding Property. London-based Dudding, 72, launched Lonsto, which makes
ticket queuing systems for banks and supermarkets. He has about 12,000 lock-up
garages in the UK. (£90m, 600=)

Sir Chris Evans Biotechnology. Port Talbot-born Evans, 52, has businesses such
as Celsis International and Merlin Biosciences. Other assets include cars and
property. (£100m, 540=)

Edward Faith* Travel. When the world's biggest travel group, Cendant, paid £570m
for Gullivers Travel Associates in 2004, the deal netted £100m for Faith, one of
the founders of the London firm. (£80m, 694= )

Stanley Fink Finance. Fink, 52, paid £10m in 2009 for a penthouse at St Pancras
station. He left London hedge fund Man Group in 2008 with a stake worth £50m. He
has other wealth. (£70m, 793 =)

Andrew Goodsell Finance. Goodsell, 51, is chief executive of Acromas, formed by
the £6.2 billion merger of Folkestone-based Saga and the AA in 2007. He has
assets in cash and equity. (£100m, 540=)

Eva Hamren-Larsson Inheritance. A tax exile in Britain, Hamren-Larsson, 57,
inherited a fortune from her father, a Swedish property developer. (100m, 540=)

Guy and Julia Hands Finance. Guernseybased Hands, 50, is seeking new investment
for EMI music group, which his Terra Firma Capital Partners bought for £4.2
billion in 2007. His wife Julia, 50, runs Hand Picked Hotels. (£100m, 540=)

Gilad Hayeem Finance. Hayeem, 43, made £120m when City hedge fund Marble Bar
Asset Management, which he co-founded, was sold in 2007. (£90m, 600=)

Nigel Jagger* Finance. Jagger, 56, chairs Cert Octavian, the Hertfordshire-based
logistics company. The family netted about £90m from the sale of Atlantic
Computers in 1987. (£80m, 694=)

Uzi Kattan Leisure. Kattan, 65, made about £100m in 2004, when London-based
Gullivers Travel Associates, which he cofounded, was sold to the American giant
Cendant. (£80m, 694=)

Richard Kirk Retailing. Cardiff-based fashion retailer Peacocks did well last
Christmas, seeing a 17% rise in its sales. We value it at £500m and the stake of
chief executive Kirk, 64, at £90m, adding £10m for other assets. (£90m, 600=)

Hilton Nathanson Finance. Australian Nathanson, 40, made about £120m when Marble
Bar Asset Management, a City hedge fund he co-founded, was sold to a Swiss bank
in 2007. (£90m, 600=)

Sir Philip Naylor-Leyland Land. Naylor-Leyland, 56, went to Eton and Sandhurst,
and served as a Guards officer. He owns 25,000 acres in Peterborough, Yorkshire
and Wales. (£100m, 540=)

Sir John Ritblat* Property. The Ritblat family owns the Delancey property
operation. Ritblat, 74, was chairman of British Land from 1970 to 2006 and sold
most of his stake in the group for nearly £57m just before he retired. (£90m,
600=)

Andrew Rosenfeld Property. Rosenfeld, 47, former chief executive of Minerva, has
moved from London to Geneva where he has set up Air Capital to invest in the
property market. (£100m, 540=)

Stephen Spouge* Petrol and petrol stations. Spouge, 66, founded Extra, the
motorway services chain. It is owned by Swayfields, his Lincoln-based company,
with assets of £104.7m. (£100m, 540=)

Samir Traboulsi Finance and art. In June 2009, Lebanese-born financier Traboulsi
bought a Picasso, Homme à l'Epée, for £7m at Sotheby's. Traboulsi has his main
home in London. (£100m, 540=)

681 £99m

John and Richard Bennett Computers. The sale of Berkshire-based computer firm
Kerridge Group made John, 74, Richard, 60, and family £85m. (£85m, 657=)

682= £98m

Edelin Davis* Construction. Broadthorpe, holding company for William Davis, the
Loughborough builder owned by Davis, 75, and family, is worth £95m. (£78m, 742=)

John Halewood* Beverages. Merseyside drinks operation Halewood International is
run by its founder, Halewood, 62, a renowned racehorse owner. (£58m, 966=)

Tony Travis* Builders' merchant. Travis, 66, and family own a £64m stake in
Northamptonshire-based builders' merchant Travis Perkins. (£90m, 600=)

Dai and Richard Walters* Construction and mining. Dai Walters, 65, heads the
Walters Group, based in Aberdare and worth £83m. Richard, 30, Dai's son, owns
Celtic Mining, worth £15m. (£90m, 600=)

686= £97m

Dame Margaret Barbour* Waxed jackets. South Shields-based jacket maker J Barbour
is worth £82m, and is owned by Barbour, 70, and family. (£85m, 657=)

Richard Biffa Waste services. Biffa, 70, sold his stake in Milton Keynes-based
Shanks Group, one of Europe's largest waste disposal companies, and has property
and other assets. (£87m, 648=)

688= £95m

Alan and Ronnie Bartlett Vegetables. The brothers have divided their £90m
vegetable-growing business, with Ronnie, 46, in charge of the Airdrie-based
potato operation and Alan, 54, heading a root veg company in Cambridgeshire.
(£67m, 853=)

Steven Blakey Finance. Blakey, 50, made £125m when London-based European Credit
Management was sold in 2007. (£95m, 575=)

Peter Bromley* Shoes. Bromley, 68, chairs the £75m London-based Russell &
Bromley footwear chain, and has other interests. (£80m, 694=)

Robert Brooks* Auctions. Profits fell in 2008 at Bonhams, the auction house, but
sales hit £73.6m. Chairman Brooks, 53, bought Bonhams in 2000. (£84m, 682=)

Jackie Collins Novels. Having sold 400m copies of her raunchy novels, Collins,
72, has been promoting her 27th, Poor Little Bitch Girl. British-born Collins
wanted to be a film star like her sister Joan but turned to fiction instead.
(£90m, 600=)

653= £100m New entry

Derek Coates Vitamins and airline

Coates arrived on Guernsey as a child when his father worked as an engineer for
the island's government. He went to university to read psychology and took an
MBA before joining Unilever and becoming its youngest marketing manager. He
later went into advertising before starting his own agency, Holmes and Marchant,
which later floated on the stock market. His stake was worth nearly £4m when he
sold up. He returned to Guernsey to retire but was persuaded to take over an
advertising agency on the island, and found himself with the local post office
account and a large office. Coates considered what sort of business he could run
from the office and came up with health supplements, launching Healthspan in
1996. It has proved a huge success and has 60% of the direct sales market in
Britain for nutritional products. Coates has refurbished three hotels and bought
an airline to bring in guests. He plans more hotels in the Channel Islands and
is also diversifying into financial services. Blue Islands Airlines has become
the leading carrier between Jersey and Guernsey, and has expanded to the Isle of
Man, Southampton, Bournemouth, Geneva and Zurich. Despite the lack of hard
financial information, we value 61-year-old Coates at £100m as a sighting shot,
but he will go higher.

688= £95m

Bob Diamond Finance. Barclays made £11.6 billion last year but American-born
Diamond, 58, the London-based president, waived his pay rise. He has a £30m
stake and other wealth. (£75m, 751=)

Martin Edwards Football. Edwards, 64, former chairman of Manchester United, made
£120m from his stake in the football club. (£92m, 594=)

Nick Forman Hardy Media. The Forman Hardy family, led by Nick, 61, is best known
for its publishing interests, notably the Nottingham Evening Post, which were
sold in 1994 for £92.9m. (£84m, 682=)

Sir David Garrard Property. Garrard, 71, helped to launch the Minerva property
group. When he stood down as chairman five years ago, his family trusts sold
£37m of shares. (£95m, 575=)

Mahmoud Khayami* Industry and art. London-based Khayami, 80, made his fortune in
the Iranian automotive industry. He has one of the world's finest Persian art
collections. (£95m, 575=)

Larry Kinch Oil services. Kinch, 56, made £92m when Centrica took over his
Aberdeen oil and gas firm Venture Production last summer. (£88m, 646=)

Lennox Lewis Boxing. Lewis, 44, stopped Vitali Klitschko, the WBC heavyweight
champion, in Los Angeles in 2003 and then retired. He has property in London,
New York and Jamaica. (£90m, 600=)

George Moore* Furniture and finance. The Yorkshireman, 81, sold Moores Furniture
Group for £80m in 1987. Wilton Investments is now the family's main operation.
(£95m, 575= )

Ozzy and Sharon Osbourne Music and television. Buckinghamshire-based Osbourne,
61, received the Legend of Live award from Billboard last year for his touring.
We raise the singer and his wife Sharon, 57, by £5m. (£90m, 600=)

Tony Pidgley Construction. Pidgley is chairman of Surrey housebuilder Berkeley.
The chairman sold £21m of shares last year and has a £54m stake and other
wealth. (£71m, 792)

Simon Robertson Finance. Robertson, 69, one of the City's top bankers, is
chairman of Rolls-Royce and a board member of HSBC. (£90m, 600=)

David Shamoon* Finance. The Londonbased Iranian-born Italian, 79, has interests
that run from shipping and agriculture to antiques. (£85m, 657=)

Dick Watson* Construction. Regeneration specialist Keepmoat provides social
housing. Scots-born Watson, 68, had an 18.26% stake when the firm was sold for
£783m in 2007. (£85m, 657=)

Nick Williamson* Cleaning products. Deb Group, the Derbyshire firm behind
Swarfega, was sold in March for £325m. Williamson, 63, the son of the handwash's
inventor, and his family are worth £95m. (£80m, 694=)

Ron Wood Greeting cards and property. Wood, 61, made £90m when he sold Ron Wood
Greeting Cards. He is involved in property in Manchester. (£95m, 575=)

Julian and Marc Worth Internet. The London-based Worth brothers, Marc, 49, and
Julian, 51, made £116m in 2005 when they sold Worth Global Style Network, an
online news service. (£90m, 600=)

Stephen Zinser Finance. American banker Zinser, 52, co-founded European Credit
Management in London. The company was sold for £500m-plus in 2007. (£95m, 575=)

710= £93m

Grahame Chilton Insurance. Chilton, 51, collected £77m when the London insurer
Benfield was taken over in 2008. He had been chief executive and remains with
the new parent company. Other assets take him to £93m. (£68m, 843=)

Sir Terence Conran* Retailing and restaurants. Conran Holdings saw losses grow
in 2008-09. Conran, 78, seventh in our Giving List, has gifted £10m to his
eponymous foundation. (£95m, 575=)

Ashley Head Online payments. Head, 59, has a stake worth £83m in DataCash, an
online payment group in London and other assets. (£103m, 533=)

713 £91m

Fakhruddin Suterwalla* Food. Four main Suterwalla companies, including the
London-based TRS Cash & Carry, made £6.5m profit in 2008. They are run by
Fakhruddin, 72, and brothers Hatim, Siraj, Mansoor and Iqbal. (£78m, 742=)

714= £90m

Vahid Alaghband* Industry. The aviation arm of the Balli Group was fined $15m by
Washington in February for illegally exporting three Boeing 747s to Iran.
London-based Balli is headed by Iranianborn Alaghband, 58. (£79m, 740=)

Simon Borrows Finance. Borrows, 50, is the co-chief executive of banking firm
Greenhill. He is based in London and has a stake worth £38m. (£80m, 694=)

Robert Braithwaite* Yachts. Sunseeker International, the Poole-based leisure
boat builder, is led by Braithwaite, 66. The family stake is worth £89m. (£70m,
793=)

Andrew Cohen* Retailing. Hertfordshirebased Cohen, 56, turned Betterware into
one of the top retailers in Britain. He has now sold his stake. (£90m, 600=)

Gavyn Davies Finance. London hedge fund Fulcrum Asset Management is run by
59-year-old Davies. He made £87.5m from Goldman Sachs.(£90m, 600=)

Paul Deighton Finance. Deighton, 54, chief executive of the London 2012 Olympics
organising committee, left Goldman Sachs with more than £100m. (£80m, 694=)

Graham Ferguson Lacey Property. Ferguson Lacey, 61, chairs the Sefton Group,
based on the Isle of Man, and owns several golf clubs. (£80m, 694=)

Albert Fuss Finance. Fuss, 74, launched International Asset Management, with
London offices, selling it to ABN Amro four years ago for about £150m. (£80m,
694=)

James Gaggero* Transport. GB Airways, part of Bland Group, was bought for £103m
by easyJet in 2007. Gaggero, 50, is chairman of Bland, a 200-year-old family
business based in Gibraltar. (New entry)

Colin Graves* Food. York-based Costcutter was started by Graves, 62. A
controlling stake was sold to Bibby Group in 2007 in a £100m deal. (£45m,
1,203=)

David Gundlach Insurance. Gundlach, 54, helped set up the Admiral car insurance
business and founded Hastings, selling the Bexhill-on-Sea broker to Insurance
Australia Group. (£90m, 600=)

Aaron and Tania Hillman Spirits. Angus Dundee, based in London, supplies whisky,
gin, vodka and liqueurs. It is run by Terry Hillman and owned by his children,
Aaron, 45, and Tania, 47. (£48m, 1,152)

Ray Horney Property. Real Estate Opportunities, chaired by Horney, 73, owns
Battersea power station. He made £21m selling a white goods firm and £27m from a
West Indies hotel chain. (£80m, 694=)

Yan Huo Finance. Huo, 41, heads Capula Investment Management, which has offices
in London and Tokyo. A Goldman Sachs private equity fund bought a 20% share in
2008 and the Japanese Mitsubishi Corporation has a stake. (£70m, 793=)

James Lupton Finance. Lupton, 54, works for American investment bank Greenhill
in London and has a stake worth £70m. He has other wealth and gave £25,000 to
the Conservative party in 2009. (£78m, 742=)

Michael Marks Finance. NewSmith Capital Partners was able to pay out £29.4m to
its top 33 staff in 2008, when most of the City was close to crisis. Marks, 68,
is co-founder of City-based NewSmith. We put its worth at £200m. (£90m, 600=)

Peter Martin* Property. Radnor Walk Investments is a London property company.
Owned by his family and run by Martin, 81, the Chelsea-based company had £58m
assets in 2008-09 and there is other wealth. (£70m, 793=)

Don McCarthy Shoes and fashion. The House of Fraser had its best Christmas in
2009. Its London-based chairman McCarthy, 54, made £135m from the 2006 sale of
Rubicon, the shoes and fashion group. (£90m, 600=)

Sir George Meyrick Property. Meyrick, 69, owns large tracts of land in the
southwest and Wales. His family played an important role in the development of
Bournemouth. (£80m, 694=)

George Michael Music. Our rock expert keeps Michael, 46, who is based in London
and had a quiet 2009 (apart from a cameo appearance on the X Factor), at £90m on
the strength of his enduring appeal and his back catalogue. (£90m, 600=)

The Marquess of Milford Haven Internet. A cousin of the Queen, Switzerland-based
Milford Haven, 48, had the idea for uSwitch, a website that compared utility
prices. His trusts received £105m when he sold it. He also owns a small aviation
company. (£85m, 657=)

Joe Moore Industry. Moore, 70, sold his Yorkshire window and door hardware firm
to SIG Group in 1993. He has sold other companies and has interests in the Far
East and in healthcare and internet services. (£90m, 600=)

The Morris family Property. The family's empire started with post-war
housebuilding. Today the Morris operation, based in Surrey, involves at least 12
companies. (£90m, 600=)

Robert Morton Property. Based in Jersey, Morton, 68, has stakes in 17 quoted
companies worth £12.5m. With interests in other firms and trust funds, Morton is
worth £90m. (£80m, 694=)

The Marquess of Northampton Land. Northampton's Tandridge and Chesham Estates in
Surrey are under offer for £25m. The 64-year-old also has other land and a
London estate. (£65m, 863=)

Michael Oliver* Industry. Cheshire-based Oliver, 71, is in the oil and gas
industry. The Oliver operations are worth £80m and we add £10m for past
salaries. (£68m, 843=)

Nicholas Oughtred* Food. Oughtred, 49, chairs Humberside-based William Jackson &
Sons, which runs a bakery, and Kwoks, producer of Chinese food. There is also
Tryton Foods, including the Aunt Bessie's brand. (£85m, 657=)

Alan Parker Public relations. PR Week magazine last year named Parker, 53, the
second most powerful public-relations executive in the City, thanks to his
Brunswick operation. (£67m, 853=)

Lennart Perlhagen Pharmaceuticals. Swedish tycoon Perlhagen, 67, has been based
in London since 1984. His pharmaceuticals operation, Cross Pharma, merged with
the Swedish company Meda in 1999. (£80m, 694=)

Lord Rana* Hotels and property. Indianborn Rana, 71, has added two new Ibis
hotels to his Belfast business empire. His company, Andras House, owned by Rana,
71, and his family, is worth £70m and we add £20m for other assets. (£80m, 694=)

The Duke of Roxburghe Land. The 10th duke, 55, inherited his title and ancestral
home, Floors Castle, at the age of 19. The Borders estate includes a hotel and a
racing stud. (£80m, 694=)

Paul Roy Finance. Roy chairs the British Horseracing Authority and is paid
£100,000 a year for two days' work a week. Roy, 62, has a £60m stake in NewSmith
Capital Partners, the London-based fund management firm. (£90m, 600=)

Joe Sloan* Food and drink distribution. Brands such as Douwe Egberts use the
sales and marketing expertise of SHS. The £160m group was co-founded by Sloan,
63, in Belfast in 1975. (£90m, 600=)

Andy Stewart Finance. Stewart, 58, has stepped back from his role at Cenkos, the
listed City-based broking operation, to spend more time with his family
following his son's recent serious snowboarding accident, and to raise funds for
spinal research. (£80m, 694=)

Dale Vince Green energy. Vince plans an attempt in his Nemesis car on the
British electric land speed record of 137mph this year. Ecotricity, a
Gloucestershire-based green energy company founded by Vince, 48, is worth £90m.
(£85m, 657=)

Stephen Zimmerman Finance.

Zimmerman, 61, co-founded NewSmith Capital Partners. He has a £60m stake in the
London operation and additional assets. (£90m, 600=)

714= £90m New entry

John Hitchcox Property

Hitchcox helped to define urban chic for a generation of yuppies when in 1992 he
co-founded the Manhattan Loft Corporation in London, later selling out to
partner Harry Handelsman. In 1999 he teamed up with Philippe Starck, king of the
lemon squeezer, to set up the property and design business Yoo. Collaborating
with the likes of Jade Jagger and Kelly Hoppen, the £120m company blends clever
branding with a frisson of celebrity. Yoo can boast involvement in 37 projects
in 24 countries, from Panama City to Phuket, Thailand. The son of an architect,
48-year-old Hitchcox grew up in East Sussex and started in property development
by refurbishing a house in Caterham, Surrey. He lives in a four-storey Victorian
villa in Notting Hill, west London, which he gutted and made over, pictured
above. He is a keen musician with a recording studio in his basement. His band,
Westbourne Circus, played at last year's Lakestock, a rock festival at the
Lakes, a Yoo development near Lechlade in the Cotswolds. His share of Yoo,
personal property and a stake in Green and Co, the London estate agent, take him
to £90m, allowing for losses on a bond from AIG, the American insurer.

751= £89m

Abdul Bhatti* Cash and carry. Bestway opened a £6m distribution centre last
year. Bhatti, 74, a director of the London wholesaler, and his family have an
£86m stake and other assets. (£68m, 843=)

Johnnie Boden* Mail-order fashion. The Old Etonian used a legacy to set up Boden
in London. Two decades on, it has 1m customers in Europe and America and sales
of £168m. Boden, 48, and family own about half of the £160m firm. Salaries and
dividends lift them to £89m. (£87m, 648=)

John Brooksbank Waste disposal and property. Brooksbank, 54, operates waste
services in Yorkshire. His property portfolio includes 350 acres in Inverness
with permission for a marina and hotel with homes and shops. In all, his
business assets are worth £81m and we add £8m for other assets. (£72m, 782=)

Henri Charbit Property. London-based Frenchman Charbit, 66, made his fortune in
textiles and built a property portfolio in Britain and Europe. He was among a
partnership that reinvested £350m in a Czech property business. (£120m, 438=)

Adalat and Arshad Chaudhary Cash and carry. Adalat, 75, and son Arshad, 50, are
directors of Bestway, the Anglo-Pakistani cash and carry, cement and banking
operation started by Sir Anwar Pervez (qv). The Chaudharys' stake in the London
operation is worth £86m and there is other wealth. (£68m, 843=)

Younus Sheikh Cash and carry. Sheikh is managing director of Bestway's
cash-andcarry businesses. The London firm has 52 depots. Sheikh, 63, has an £86m
stake and other assets. (£68m, 843=)

757 £88m

John Deer Engineering. Deer, 72, cofounded Renishaw, maker of high-tech
measuring tools, with Sir David McMurtry (qv). His stake in the Gloucestershire
firm is worth £76m. Other assets include a racehorse stud. (£44m, 1,284)

758= £87m

Ron Dennis Motor racing. See panel opposite

David Ord Docks. First Corporate Shipping, which runs the Port of Bristol, made
£16.8m profit in 2007-08. Ord, 61, the managing director, has an £80m stake and
other wealth. (£87m, 648=)

760= £86m

Harvey McGrath Finance. Belfast-born McGrath chairs the insurance giant
Prudential and is busy with public service groups such as the London Development
Agency. He banked about £90m from his time with the Man Group hedge fund but is
a generous philanthropist. (£85m, 657=)

Mike Walker* Construction. The family, headed by Walker, 69, has holdings worth
£82m in Edinburgh construction firms, plus dividends and other assets. (£79m,
740=)

763= £85m

Lord and Apurv Bagri Metal. Lord Bagri's mansion in Regent's Park could be worth
£50m when he completes its restoration. The 79-year-old's son, Apurv, 50, runs
his main UK metal trading firm. There are also overseas interests. (£55m, 986=)

Clay Brendish Computers. Brendish, 62, is the new non-executive chairman of
quoted recruitment firm SThree. The Berkshirebased co-founder of the Admiral
software group, which was sold in 2000, has a number of directorships. (£75m,
751=)

William Brown* Finance. Sussex-based Brown, 75, and his family own Walsham
Brothers, the Lloyd's broker. He stepped down from the board last September.
There are other assets. (£85m, 657=)

James Caan Finance and outsourcing. Caan, 49, is chairman of The Big Issue
magazine and wants to help the homeless in Pakistan, where he was born. The
Dragons' Den star controls more than 40 businesses through Hamilton Bradshaw,
his London private -equity company. With the proceeds of earlier outsourcing and
recruitment firms and property, he is up £20m this year. (£65m, 863=)

Andrew Cook* Industry. Sheffield-based William Cook, a castings-to-engineering
group, increased profits in 2008-09 to £9.5m on £59.1m sales. Cook, 60, holds
99% of the £60m business through trusts and his pension fund. He and his family
have other assets. (£80m, 694=)

Christopher Cooper-Hohn Finance. Cooper-Hohn, 43, continues to make huge
charitable donations despite a tough 2009 at his Children's Investment Fund,
following a £556m profit in the year to August 2008. In the past four years the
London hedge fund manager, who tops our Giving List for the third successive
year, has put £1.1 billion into the foundation run by his wife Jamie, which aims
to tackle issues such as malnutrition. (£85m, 657=)

Con Folkes* Property. As the ninth generation to run the Black Country firm
Folkes Holdings, Con, 56, has shifted the emphasis from engineering to property
in the UK and South Africa. (£85m, 657=)

Michael Freeman Oil services. The North Sea veteran, 66, owns Can Holdings,
which supplies inspection services and personnel. The Lancashire firm made a
record £15.8m profit in 2008. (£40m, 1,348=)

Roger Gabb* Wine. The family, led by Gabb, 71, netted £55m on the sale of
Telford-based Western Wines in 2004. He holds 6% of Bibendum Wine and the family
has other wealth. (£82m, 688=)

Penelope Gorman and Victoria Cammack Inheritance. Gorman, 48, and Cammack, 45,
inherited their father Douglas's stake in CMG, the London computer group he
co-founded. They sold most of their shares in 1998. (£75m, 751=)

Richard Hanson Finance. Hanson, 54, is a director of Doughty Hanson, the £200m
private -equity operation in London, and has a stake worth £75m. We add past
salaries and dividends. (£85m, 657=)

Stephen Lloyd* Schools. The ex-teacher co-founded Doncaster-based Hesley Group,
which provides schooling and care. Half of it was sold in 2005. Lloyd, 61, and
his family own the rest. (£70m, 793=)

Edward Lonergan Property. Deramore is developing the first new hotel on
Edinburgh's Princes Street for 50 years. Lonergan, 59, runs the Belfast company
and has other interests. (£65m, 863=)

The Macdonald family Spirits. Glenmorangie, the Scots distiller, was founded in
1893 by Roderick Macdonald. His descendants sold to LVMH in 2004, netting £100m
before tax. (£80m, 694=)

Roy MacGregor* Energy services. Global Energy Group was founded by MacGregor,
57, who started in the family supermarket business. Sales and other assets, such
as MacGregor Properties, take the family to £85m. Football-loving MacGregor is
life president of Ross County. (New entry)

David McMullen* Brewing. Our valuation of McMullen & Sons, in Hertford, is down
to £60m owing to falling beer sales. A capital reorganisation and dividends add
£25m for the family, represented here by ex-chairman McMullen, 64. (£85m, 657=)

Sir Fraser and Gordon Morrison Construction. Sir Fraser, 62, and brother Gordon,
59, made their fortune from Morrison Construction, sold for £57m in cash and 3%
in shares. Gordon's Chaldean companies have £9.5m of net assets, and other
wealth adds £20m. (£90m, 600=)

Owen and Karl Oyston Property and football. Karl, 43, chairs Blackpool FC, in
which his father, Owen, 76, has a controlling stake. Owen has made at least £50m
from asset sales. Property and other assets add to their total. (£85m, 657=)

Malcolm Scott Property and grain. Scott, 46, has property interests in France
and the UK. He runs the family's Edinburgh grain businesses, which had £12m net
assets in 2007-08. (£120m, 438=)

Rahul and Rita Sharma Travel. The couple own London-based Best at Travel, which
saw profits fall sharply in 2008 to £378,000, although sales hit a record
£69.6m. Rita, 49, and Rahul, 51, have property and other assets. (£85m, 657=)

Tony Todd Tyres. Todd, 62, has retired since selling Hampshire-based Micheldever
Tyre Services in 2006. It is Britain's largest independent wholesaler and
distributor of tyres. (£78m, 742=)

Andrew Vicari Art. Welsh-born Vicari, 72, the son of an Italian restaurateur,
has had a lucrative career since being appointed painter to the Saudi royal
court in 1974. He has a number of homes, including in Riyadh and London. (£80m,
694=)

Roger Waters Music. Waters said last year he was looking at a tour of The Wall,
the Pink Floyd show. The 66-year-old receives big royalties from the band. He
has homes in London and Hampshire. (£85m, 657=)

Charlie Watts Music. In the absence of a new Rolling Stones tour or recording,
the drummer, 68, spends much of his time at his Devon farm. (£85m, 657=)

Robbie Williams Music. Williams reemerged in late 2009 with the studio album
Reality Killed the Video Star, delivered under his reputed £80m deal with EMI.
With the proceeds of 95m album sales and 40m single sales, our rock expert
values the 36-year-old star at £5m higher this year. (£80m, 694=)

Robert and Patrick Wilson Pharmaceuticals. Brothers Robert, 47, and Patrick, 45,
own Wimbledon-based Nelsons, which makes natural medicines such as Rescue
Remedy. (£36m, 1,525=)

789= £84m

Pradip and Manish Dhamecha Cash and carry and property. Pradip, 51, and Manish,
50, run the family cash and carry, property and paper products interests. Their
headquarters is in London. (£60m, 924=)

Kishore Lulla* Media. London-based Lulla, 48, wants to create an Indian rival to
Hollywood studios with Eros International. It has dubbed 1,300 Bollywood films
into other languages. (£48m, 1,152=)

Harold Montgomery* Transport.

Montgomery Transport in Northern Ireland is part of Ballyvesey Holdings.
Montgomery, 61, heads the group and owns it with family trusts. (£84m, 682=)

John Rudd* Wine and spirits. Rudd, 83, is the biggest shareholder in Berry Bros
& Rudd in London's St James's, Britain's oldest wine merchant. (£64m, 900=)

Peter Salussolia* Pubs and hotels. Salussolia, 66, chairs Glendola Leisure, a
Wembley-based pub, hotels and restaurant group worth £30m. The family also owns
Hotel Management International, valued at £50m. (£40m, 1,348=)

794= £83m Michael Green Media. Green, 62, has retrained as a psychotherapist, a
contrast to his earlier media career with Carlton Communications. Property and
art add to his share sales and payoffs. (£80m, 694=)

Ray Kelvin Fashion. Kelvin, 54, set up the £195m London business Ted Baker,
which saw a 19.1% rise in Christmas sales. We add salaries to his stake. (£58m,
966=)

Derek Mickel* Construction. Mickel, 75, chairs Mactaggart & Mickel, the Glasgow
housebuilder, with assets of £131m, but we value it below that figure. (£78m,
742=)

Peter Stephens Travel and conferences. Stephens, 60, has a £75m stake in Lotus
Group, a London business that includes DialAFlight, and other wealth.(£80m, 694)

798= £82m

Alexander Badenoch Recruitment services. Co-founder of Venn, a £40m London firm,
the 63-year-old earlier made £72m before reinvesting it. (£65m, 863=)

Jack Brignall* Trucks and property. Brignall, 83, was appointed an MBE in the
new year's honours list. Wykeland, the Hull developer he set up after selling a
truck firm, is worth £75m. (£72m, 782=)

James Holder Fashion. SuperGroup, the Cheltenham-based retailer behind the
popular Superdry range, listed in March. Holder, 38, the brand and design
director, has a £67m stake and sold shares at the float. (New entry)

Iain Liddell Transport. Liddell, 46, owns Uniserve, an £80m Essex firm that
provides global sea, air and road freight services. Profits last year rose to
£13.2m. He has other assets. (£67m, 853=)

Bill Morris* Property. Morris & Co (Shrewsbury), a 140-year-old family business
with interests in property, care homes, power generation and marketing, is run
by Morris, 71. (£65m, 863=)

Gerald and John Murphy Scrap metal.

Armagh-based Clearway Disposals saw profits fall to £13.5m. John, 64, started
the firm, still owned by the Murphy family and now led by Gerald, 61. (£75m,
751=)

Giuseppe Pecorelli* Hotels and golf.

Pecorelli, 70, ran hotels for the Fortes and the Aga Khan before founding
Exclusive Hotels. The Surrey-based parent made £3.3m profit in 2008-09. (£78m,
742=)

Theo Karpathios Fashion. Share sales and a £67m stake in Superdry, part of the
SuperGroup business in Cheltenham, place the brand's 46-year-old wholesale and
international head at £82m. (New entry)

Lee Robinson Finance. Robinson, 40, co-founded Trafalgar Asset Managers, a
London hedge fund in which Goldman Sachs took a 20% stake in 2008. We add
dividends to his £70m stake. (£70m, 793=)

Richard Sharp Finance. Previously at Goldman Sachs, Sharp, 54, chairs the
Huntsworth PR firm in London. With asset prices and his Huntsworth stake on the
up, we lift his value by £12m. (£70m, 793=)

808= £80m

Lord Alli Media. Chorion, the London media rights group with Enid Blyton's
characters in its stable, is chaired by Alli, 45. He also has a stake in
Castaway Television Productions. (£60m, 924=)

Robert Barnett* Grain. Barnett, 64, heads W&R Barnett, a Belfast grain dealer.
The family owns much of the operation, which has £119m net assets. (£67m, 853=)

Sinclair Beecham Sandwiches Beecham, 51, co-founder of sandwich chain Pret A
Manger, has turned his attention to hotels, running the Hoxton Urban Lodge hotel
in east London. (£75m, 751=)

Hotshots of the information age

760= £86m £34m, 65%

Edwina Dunn and Clive Humby Business services

Genius marketing innovator or data-hungry Big Brother, Dunnhumby is the force
behind Tesco's Clubcard. Founded in a spare bedroom by Humby, the 55-year-old
chairman, and his wife Dunn, 51, the chief executive, it launched the Clubcard
in 1995. Whether you have children, are a dog owner or fancy yourself as a chef,
if you've got a Clubcard, Tesco has your number. While we don't know which brand
of washing powder they opt for, we do know the couple have two children, she
enjoys sailing and he has a head for figures. After a Clubcard trial, former
Tesco chairman Lord MacLaurin famously admitted: "You know more about my
customers after three months than I know after 30 years." Dunnhumby analyses the
contents of 100 shopping baskets a second.When Cadbury's approached the company
to help it launch chewing gum Trident, it identified 500,000 customers, sending
them an offer with their Clubcard statement. Firms including Coca-Cola and
Unilever buy rights to its data and Dunnhumby lends its magic to US supermarket
Kroger, Macy's department stores and French chain Casino. In 2008-09, the west
London-based company's profits came in at £41m on £122m sales. Tesco recently
increased its stake from 53% to 84% by buying shares from Dunn and Humby, and
chief executive Sir Terry Leahy (see page 74) has hinted it would like to launch
the loyalty card in Asia. The couple are likely to have earned £30m from the
sale and their stake is worth £64m. We raise them to £86m after tax.

2009: 52m, 1,046=

Living in the fast lane

758= £87m

Ron Dennis Motor racing

Each night, as little Ron settled down to sleep, the hum of a vacuum cleaner
drifted up the stairs as his mother ensured the house would be immaculate in the
morning. It is no surprise that he grew up to be a perfectionist. "I get a
mental pain looking at things that have not been properly executed," he has
said. As team principal, Dennis helped McLaren find seven Formula One world
champions but stood down after a series of dramas, including the 2007 Spygate
scandal when McLaren was fined £50m after being caught in possession of
sensitive Ferrari documents. Dennis, 62, insisted he had to focus 100% on
McLaren's new road car division, which plans to produce 4,000 cars a year, the
first of which is the MP4-12C, costing about £150,000. Woking-based McLaren
employs 1,000 people and the new car factory will create another 300 jobs. We
value McLaren at £450m, with Dennis's 15% stake worth £67.5m. Other assets take
him to £87m.

2009: £87m, 648=

808=  £80m

Mike Bell Property. Bell, 62, a long-time resident of Jersey, added about £20m
from the sale of Parkridge in 2007 to £30m from an earlier property firm, and
has other assets. (£70m, 793=)

Kip Bertram* Books and property . Bertram, 65, moved into property development
after selling Bertram Books, which he founded in Norwich with his mother, in a
£54m deal. (£70m, 793=)

Gulshan Bhatia and Asif Bhatia Hotels.

Owners of London's Waldorf, Gulshan, 77, and son Asif, 41, had about £57m net
assets in their main hotel companies in 2008, when they made £8.7m profit.
(£75m, 751=)

Robin and India Jane Birley Inheritance. Robin, 52, plans to open a private club
in London's Shepherd Market. He and sister India Jane, 49, are the heirs of Mark
Birley, who sold his clubs business, including Annabel's, for £102m. (£75m,
751=)

Chris Blackwell Music. London-born Blackwell, 72, is building luxury homes in
Jamaica. His fortune grew out of Island Records, which made a star of Bob Marley
and from which Blackwell made £70m. He later developed US hotels. (£80m, 694=)

Zameer Choudrey* Cash and carry. The Anglo-Pakistani Bestway Group is headed by
Choudrey, 52. The London-based firm saw £2.05 billion sales in 2008-09. The
Choudrey family stake is worth £78m and it has other assets. (£58m, 966=)

Bakir Cola* Hotels. The Westbury in London's Mayfair is part of Cola's hotel
stable. With the proceeds from the £50m sale of the Harrington Hall hotel to the
Spanish group NH Hotels, we keep Cola, 67, and his family at £80m. (£80m, 694=)

Sir Sean Connery Films. Connery has not appeared in a film since 2003, though he
has voiced cartoons. The Bahamas-based Scotsman, 79, could have been the richest
actor in the world had he agreed to play Gandalf in the Lord of the Rings series
for 15% of the takings. (£80m, 694=)

Judy Craymer Music. The film Mamma Mia! has taken more than $600m while the
stage show has topped $2 billion. Craymer, 52, the producer, has a £62.5m stake
in the London company behind the musical plus dividends and other assets. (£75m,
751=)

Danny Desmond Property. Desmond, 70, owns most of the Bride Hall property group,
which he started in 1983. The latest projects of the Mayfair business include a
Lichfield retail park. (£78m, 742=)

Friedhelm Eronat Oil. Bavarian-born Eronat, 56, is a British citizen with a £20m
home in Chelsea. He has earned millions from oil deals through his Cliveden
Petroleum International. (£70m, 793=)

Rita Firth and the Batley family Inheritance and cash and carry. Five years ago
Firth, 70, and her family sold the Yorkshire business founded by her father for
£100m. Their pet-food operation had £39.4m sales in 2007-08. (£80m, 694=)

Peter Gadsby Construction. Gadsby, 61, former chairman of Derby County, has been
trying to re-acquire the football club. He made his fortune in housebuilding
and, thanks to investments, private property and his Derby County involvement,
is up by £15m this year. (£65m, 863=)

Charles Gallagher* Construction. The Abbey housebuilding group, run by
Gallagher, 50, and his family, made a £47m loss in 2008-09. They have a £43m
stake and their other main operation, Matthew Homes in St Albans, has £37m net
assets. (£80m, 694=)

Carol Galley Finance. Galley, 61, earned at least £80m from share options,
salaries and a takeover at Mercury Asset Management. She has homes in London and
France. (£75m, 751=)

Nicholas and Peter Gould Property. Brothers Nicholas, 52, and Peter, 50, run
Regis Group, an Essex-based property investment operation. A new parent company,
Regis Group (Holdings), made a £3.2m loss on £7.2m sales in the five months to
March 2009. It has more than £80.3m net assets and the Goulds or their trusts
own it all. (New entry)

Douglas Graham* Newspapers.

Claverley, publisher of titles such as Wolverhampton's Express & Star, turned in
a £4m loss in 2008. Graham, 80, chairs the £60m firm, founded by his father. We
add £20m for other assets. (£85m, 657=)

Geoffrey Granter Construction. Granter chairs United House, which maintains
council estates and builds new homes. The 74-year-old has a £60m stake in the
Kent firm and other assets. (£63m, 906=)

Tony Greaves Telecoms. Greaves founded Core Communications in 2003. It works
with mobile phone operators to provide discounted international calling
services. Greaves, 45, owns all of the London business, which made £20.5m profit
on £40.7m sales in the 18 months to June 2008. (New entry)

Michael Gregory Engineering supplies. Leicester-based Cromwell, started by
Gregory in 1970, saw profits up to £14.6m in 2007-08. (£57m, 976=)

Melvyn and Delia Grodner Property.

Melvyn, 66, and Delia, 56, own a number of property companies in Liverpool.
Their main operation, Atmore, had £54.5m net assets in 2008-09. (£80m, 694=)

The Earl of Halifax Land. The 3rd earl, 66, has an ancestral seat near York,
with 13,000 acres and some fine paintings. Last year he failed to find a buyer
willing to pay £50m for a Titian. (£75m, 751=)

James Hull Dentists. A bust-up with shareholders of Cardiff-based James Hull
Associates in November led the founder, 49, to step down as chief executive of
the dentistry chain. (£54m, 1,001=)

Michael Hunt* Property. Hunt, 76, made his fortune from Nissan UK, in which he
had a 13% stake. He lives in Sussex and has a big property portfolio, while the
family has assets in several companies. (£80m, 694=)

Eddie Irvine Motor racing and property . The son of a Northern Irish garage
owner, Irvine, 44, earned £40m from motor racing and turned it into asset
wealth, including homes in Oxford and Italy. (£80m, 694=)

Zuber Issa* Petrol stations. Euro Garages moved into motorway services last
year, buying Rivington services on the M61. The Lancashire-based firm is run by
37-year-old Issa. (£60m, 924=)

Bruce Jarvis* Property. Jarvis, 61, runs Wembley property firm Ravensale and is
developing the Paddington Basin scheme with the Reubens (qv). (£70m, 793=)

Bob Kidd Industry. Kidd, 49, sold a stake in his oil services operation to an
American private equity firm for £34.5m last year. The Aberdeen-based global
operation is worth £100m. (£35m, 1,550=)

David Kyte* Finance. Kyte, 49, was a trader before founding his own London
futures business. He has a 67% stake in Kyte Group with his family, and in Kyte
Capital Management. Salaries and property take the Kytes to £80m. (£32m, 1,673=)

Steve Leach Media. After stints in the lingerie business and fire service,
Leach, 42, started Bigmouthmedia, an Edinburgh digital marketing agency. Having
sold a stake and merged with Global Media, his holding is worth £65m. (New
entry)

Eskander Maleki Oil. London-based Maleki, 59, left Iran after the revolution. He
took a stake in Tullow Oil and was on the board from 1996 to 2004. He collects
art and has other assets. (£75m, 751=)

Peter Mallinson Finance. Mallinson, 50, bought a five-week timeshare in a £15m
yacht last year. He made his fortune as a Goldman Sachs partner in London when
it floated, later joining a US hedge fund and the board of a fund manager.
(£70m, 793=)

Michael Masterson* Construction. The 59-year-old runs and owns Masterson
Holdings in Hemel Hempstead. The planthire-to-concrete firm saw sales up sharply
at £84m in 2008-09. (£45m, 1,203=)

Scott Mead Finance. Mead, 55, formerly at Goldman Sachs, made £50m when the bank
floated in 1999. He set up a prep school in London before joining private equity
giant Apax Partners. With share prices up, we lift him £10m. (£70m, 793=)

Julian Metcalfe Restaurants. Metcalfe, 50, is expanding the Itsu sushi chain. He
and Sinclair Beecham (qv) each made £50m from Pret A Manger, reinvesting some of
the proceeds. Other assets include a £10m Oxfordshire home. (£75m, 751=)

Pamela Morgan Bell Divorce. Morgan Bell, 57, looks to have sold her shares in
housebuilder Redrow, part of her divorce settlement from Steve Morgan (qv). She
has a stake in a Liverpool property operation. (£80m, 694=)

Dennis Myers* Finance. Myers, 59, runs Assured Advances, an Essex credit and
finance company. He sold Swift Advances, a mortgage and consumer credit lender,
for £100m. (£80m, 694=)

John Partridge* Industry. Sonardyne is a subsea communication and navigation
company set up by Partridge, 70, in a Hampshire garage. In 2008-09, profits fell
from £19.3m to £13.5m but it has low borrowings. (£80m, 694=)

Robert Plant Music. Led Zeppelin's 61-year-old former front man, appointed a CBE
last year, is focusing on his musically and financially rewarding partnership
with bluegrass singer Alison Krauss. The Midlands rocker's companies had £19.5m
cash in the bank last year. (£75m, 751=)

Shaf Rasul Property and computers. The 39-year-old started Edinburgh-based E-net
Computers in 1999. The newsagent's son also has £50m of private property
investments. (£48m, 1,152=)

The Duke of Richmond and Gordon* Property and art. The 12,000-acre Goodwood
estate in Sussex pushed profits in 2008 from £2m to £3.4m. We see about £44.6m
net assets in the Goodwood Estate Company and the duke, 80, has an outstanding
art collection. (£70m, 793=)

Stephen Rumsey Finance. The co-founder of London asset manager European Credit
Management reportedly made close to £125m when it was sold in 2007. Rumsey, 59,
supports bird charities. (£80m, 694=)

Jake Shafran Business services. Shafran has run Jato Dynamics in Harrow, which
provides automotive intelligence, since 1984. It is worth £50m and Shafran, 58,
has other assets. (£54m, 1,001=)

Amanda Staveley Finance. Staveley, 37, has built her Mayfair investment advisory
firm, PCP Capital Partners, on the back of her Middle East and horse racing
contacts. It netted £40m from an Abu Dhabi royal family deal. (£80m, 694=)

Peter Wheeler Finance. Wheeler, who led the Goldman Sachs push into China, left
the London branch with a £100m stake. He is now with New Philanthropy Capital
and Standard Chartered Bank. (£70m, 793=)

The Earl of Yarborough Land. With a 28,000-acre estate near Grimsby, Yarborough,
46, is heavily involved in farming. The 8th earl also has assets tied up in
property businesses. (£70m, 793=)

Charles Yeates Property. WS Yeates, the Loughborough developer, is in the happy
position of having blue-chip clients and no debt. Yeates, 74, has overseas
property and art. (£75m, 751=)

859= £79m

Peter Prior* Aggregates and waste. The Berkshire firm Summerleaze has interests
from gravel extraction to green energy. It is owned by Prior, 66, and his
family, who have £5m in other assets. (£68m, 843=)

Neil Record Financial information. Record's Windsor firm provides currency
management for big firms. The 56-year-old has a £46m stake, topped up with share
sales and other wealth. (£62m, 910=)

861= £78m

Tony Brown* Office furniture. At 73, Brown says he is too old to start making
redundancies at his Surrey-based Bisley Office Equipment. It has £67m net assets
and we add £11m to the family for dividends and salaries. (£60m, 924=)

John Chamberlain* Property. The Chamberlain Group, originally a joinery firm,
has a diverse portfolio. Chamberlain, 65, and his family own 99% of the
Bedfordshire business. (£64m, 900=)

David Gilmour Music. Pink Floyd won a High Court ruling blocking EMI from
selling tracks as individual downloads. Guitarist Gilmour, 64, had £6.5m net
assets in his two firms in 2007-08. Other assets include a Sussex home. (£78m,
742=)

Viscount Hambleden* Retailing. The Buckinghamshire village of Hambleden was sold
in 2007 for £39m by the heir to the WH Smith shops dynasty, Henry Smith, son of
the 4th viscount. The family, led by Hambleden, 80, has largely moved out of WH
Smith shares. (£68m, 843=)

Sir Michael Marshall* Industry. Marshall, 78, knighted in the new year's
honours, chairs Marshall of Cambridge (Holdings), the aviation-to-engineering
group . He and his family have about 50% of the operation and other assets.
(£72m, 782=)

Bill McCabe Property and software. Dublin-based McCabe, 53, who made £47m from
software group SmartForce, heads LNC Property Group. He chairs the Irish Cancer
Society. (£87m, 648=)

Alex Scott* Finance. The Scott family sold Provincial Insurance in 1994 for
£350m and moved into wealth management. Led by Alex, 50, it has about 40% of
Londonbased Stramongate. We add dividends and other payments. (£65m, 863=)

868= £77m

Ian and Andrew Hall Food. Brothers Ian, 67, and Andrew, 60, are the fourth
generation to run Preston food group James Hall & Co. It is worth £75m and we
add £2m for past salaries. (£72m, 782=)

Jonathan Little* Books. Eastbournebased Little Group includes Gardners Books, a
leading wholesaler. The family company, run by Little, 45, is worth £70m and
there are other assets. (£47m, 1,189=)

William Lloyd* Animal feed and poultry. Lloyd's (Animal) Feeds, based in
Shropshire, also has poultry, property and waste interests. The family is led by
William, 53. (£57m, 976=)

Kevin McDonald Plastic pipes. Former plumber McDonald, 76, made £56m from
Polypipe, his Doncaster firm. We allow for other company assets and hefty share
sales over the years. (£75m, 751=)

875= £75m £5m, 7%

Jimmy Page Music

Led Zeppelin fans would flock to see Page, 66, back on stage, reprising this
1972 performance on his iconic double-neck guitar. The chances look slim,
however, with singer Robert Plant (qv) ruling out a reunion. They last got
together for a hugely successful gig at London's O2 arena in 2007 that will
doubtless figure in Page's history of his life and times with the supergroup, to
be published in a limited edition of 2,500. He formed Led Zeppelin in 1968 after
success with The Yardbirds, and the multi-million-selling band still funds a
rock-star lifestyle, even without new music. In April, Page, still a keen
musician, promoted the first annual Show of Peace concert in Beijing. His
companies, Classicberry and Succubus Music, showed £16.8m net assets in 2008-09
with £13.2m cash in the bank. Our rock expert raises London-based Page by £5m -
he would go much higher if Led Zeppelin re-formed.

2009: £70m, 793=

808= £80m New entry

Mick Davis Mining

The past year has seen Davis, the chief executive of Xstrata, stymied in his
quest for the sort of deals that have built his company into a £38 billion
giant. In October he was rebuffed in his efforts to land Anglo American, a rival
conglomerate, in a £44 billion merger. Davis, a South African accountant who
lives in London with his wife, Barbara, and three teenage children, is unlikely
to bide his time for long. The 52-year-old made his name at Eskom, the South
African utility, where half the jobs went in a restructuring. He left in 1993
and played a key role in creating BHP Billiton, the mining colossus, but
departed after failing to take the reins. Since then Davis, a passionate cricket
fan who at 15 was South Africa's youngest qualified umpire, has transformed
Xstrata into one of the world's largest natural resources companies. Davis, who
enjoys opera and history, commutes each week to Xstrata's headquarters in
Switzerland and is said rarely to take more than 30 minutes to respond to an
email. He is active in charity and a regular on the Jewish Chronicle's Power
List 100. He admits he is an aggressive dealmaker. "Many acquisitions I have
participated in have started friendly and ended hostile. I guess it reflects
something about my character," he said. And that dealmaking has been well
rewarded. Last year Davis received a £27m pay package, including £4.9m in basic
pay and bonuses. He also has a £27m stake in Xstrata.

872= £76m

Sir John Barlow* Finance. The Cheshirebased family led by Barlow, 76, has a
stake worth £56m in City investment group Majedie Investments. We add £20m for
other business assets. (£84m, 682=)

Michael Pass Flooring and property . Pass, 73, owns Granwood Holdings of
Chesterfield, whose flooring was invented in the 1900s and is used in 50
countries. He has property interests. (£58m, 966=)

Duncan Sinclair* Property. London-based Mountview Estates, chaired by Sinclair,
62, an accountant, has been snapping up property bargains. (£60m, 924=)

875= £75m

Jeremy Agace Property. Agace, 69, who races veteran cars, made £37m from the
merger of estate agency Mann into Hambro Countrywide and left Britain for Monte
Carlo. There is other wealth. (£70m, 793=)

Abdul Alimahomed* Packaging. Birmingham business Europackaging was sold back to
its founding family, led by Alimahomed, 70, for £20m, three years after being
bought by a private equity group in a deal worth £190m. (£75m, 751=)

Dave Allen Leisure and football. Allen, 68, is majority shareholder at
Chesterfield FC.His Sheffield-based leisure group showed £58m net assets in
2008. He has £17m of other assets. (£56m, 980=)

John and Kathleen Boyle Bookmaking. Boylesports in Ireland is owned by John and
wife Kathleen, both 54. (£88m, 646=)

Andy Brown Finance. Brown, 54, was a fund manager before setting up Cedar Rock
Capital in London. (£70m, 793=)

Esmond Bulmer* Cider. The family netted £84m for its stake in HP Bulmer, the
Hereford cider maker. Led by Bulmer, 74, it is now involved with the charitable
Bulmer Foundation. (£70m, 793=)

Jon Burton Computer games. Traveller's Tales, the brainchild of Cheshire-based
Burton, 40, created bestsellers based on Star Wars and Sonic the Hedgehog. He
sold to Warner Bros for £100m. (£65m, 863=)

Graham Dacre Car sales and property . Dacre, 58, moved into property after
selling his Norwich-based Lind Automotive Group for £96m. (£70m, 793=)

Lord Daresbury and the Greenall family Brewing and hotels. Daresbury, 56, heads
the family, which held the Warringtonbased De Vere leisure chain. They made
about £87m from share sales and dividends up to its 2006 takeover. (£75m, 751=)

Duncan Davidson* Construction. Davidson, 69, founded York housebuilder Persimmon
in 1972 and chaired it until 2006. It was hit by the property downturn but
orders are up again. (New entry)

Michael Dawson Alarm systems. Dawson, 67, collected £92m when Yorkshire-based
personal alarm maker Tunstall Group was sold to Mercury Private Equity. We keep
him at last year's figure. (£75m, 751=)

Dinesh Dhamija* Leisure. Dhamija, 60, got £86.7m before tax when his Ebookers
travel website sold. (£65m, 863=)

Anthony D'Offay Art dealing. Sheffieldborn D'Offay, 70, owns a £50m fine art
dealership and other assets. (New entry)

Julian Green. Finance. Green, 47, is £30m better off after selling a stake in
the London-based Ashmore Group last year. He has other assets. (£62m, 910=)

Doug Gregory Furniture. Symphony, the Yorkshire kitchen, bathroom and bedroom
maker, is owned by Channel-based Gregory, 70. (£120m, 438=)

Peter Kindersley* Publishing. Kindersley, 68, made £105m from the Dorling
Kindersley Publishing group . He is investing in Dorset-based eco retailer
Neal's Yard Remedies. (£70m, 793=)

Don Lewin* Greetings cards. Lewin, 76, sold his first cards business on his 40th
birthday and started again with Essexbased Clinton Cards. (£36m, 1,525=)

Jonathan Lourie Finance. London hedge fund Cheyne Capital was founded in 1999 by
former investment bankers Lourie, 48, and Stuart Fiertz. (New entry)

John Marston* Hotels and property . Marston, 75, made £50m from Kent hotels and
has property assets. (£75m, 751=)

Brian May Music. Queen's new Absolute Greatest compilation sold 550,000 copies
by the year end - good news for Hamptonborn guitarist May, 62. (£70m, 793=)

Patrick McKillen Property. Belfastborn McKillen, 54, netted £18m from the sale
of the Champion Sports chain. He has become one of the leading property players
in Dublin. (£66m, 860=)

John Muir* Construction. Muir Group, the Inverkeithing property firm, showed a
sharp fall in profits from £10.3m to £1.1m in 2008-09. The company, run by Muir,
73, is valued at £45m and we add £20m for the net assets of Muir Holdings. The
family has £10m of other wealth. (£50m, 1,077=)

Stephen Nesbitt Finance. Nesbitt, 61, retired as a director of Man Group, the
Citybased hedge fund, in 2005. (£70m, 793=)

Sir Gulam Noon Food. Noon, 74, set up Noon Products in Southall, which makes
Indian foods for supermarkets. It was taken over by WT Foods and Noon, who has
other assets, received £50m. (£65m, 863=)

Jimmy Page Music. See panel on page 69

David Russell Property. Russell, 53, has teamed his property empire with a fund
management group to invest £150m in the northwest. Born in Rochdale, he made a
fortune in kitchens. (£75m, 751=)

Andrew Sasson Bars and nightclubs. Sasson, 40, grew up in London but is now
based in the US, where he has a string of nightclubs and restaurants. (£60m,
924=)

Simon Shaw Finance. London financier Shaw, 49, holds a number of City
directorships. His main stake is 73.2% of the EEA Group, which deals in carbon
credits for its clients. (New entry)

Chris Stamper* Computer games. Stamper, 51, co-founded Rare, the Leicester
computer games operation, with brothers Tim and Stephen, and sold it to
Microsoft for £240m. We assess them after reinvestment. (£75m, 751=)

Tracey Ullman and Allan McKeown Television. Ullman's satirical State of the
Union television show has just finished its third season in the United States,
where the 50-year-old has won seven Emmy awards. Her husband, McKeown, 63, is a
producer. The couple live in Los Angeles and Mayfair. (£68m, 843=)

905= £74m

William Alexander* Chemicals. Alexander, 55, chairs Tennants Consolidated, the
£160m Mayfair-based chemicals company that manufactures and sells solvents,
vitamins and watertreatment chemicals. (£66m, 860=)

Bill Bottriell Recruitment services.

Bottriell, 52, co-founded the IT recruitment operation SThree in London. It is
worth £373m and Bottriell retains a £27m stake. He has other wealth. (£62m,
910=)

Panico Panayi Bingo and property. Panayi, 68, sold the Buckingham bingo chain in
late 2005 for £90m. He is involved in Manchester property. (£72m, 782=)

Christopher Taylor* Pharmacies. Taylor, 56, runs Dudley Taylor Pharmacies, based
in Warwickshire. By late 2001 the family had sold many of its pharmacies,
retaining 25 core outlets. Further expansion has doubled this number. (£64m,
900=)

909= £73m

Lady Nadine Cobham* Inheritance. Lady Nadine, 66, has a stake in Cobham, the
Dorset-based defence group, worth nearly £13m. She is the widow of its former
chairman, Sir Michael. (£80m, 694=)

Freddy Shepherd* Industry. Former Newcastle United chairman Shepherd, 68, and
his family made their fortune from Shepherd Offshore, a warehousing, offshore
services and haulage group. (£48m, 1,152=)

911= £72m

Austin Baird* Pharmacies. Ravenhill Estates, a property development company in
Northern Ireland, is owned by Baird, 44. Most of his wealth comes from the sale
of Bairds Chemists for £81m. (£70m, 793=)

Alan Bekhor Shipping. Bekhor, 50, a former metals trader, owns 90% of
London-based British Marine, which made £28.4m profit in 2008-09. (£72m, 782=)

The Brett family Quarrying. The family owns Robert Brett & Sons, a sand and
gravel extractor based in Canterbury, with £87.2m of net assets. (£72m, 782=)

Damon Buffini Finance. Buffini, 46, chairs Permira, one of Europe's biggest
private equity groups, in London. (£70m, 793=)

Moya Doherty and John McColgan Entertainment. Dublin-based Doherty, 52, and her
husband, McColgan, 64, are taking Riverdance to Asia and America. They have
property and other interests. (£67m, 853=)

Michael Heller* Property. Heller, 73, chairs shopping centre specialist London &
Associated Properties. Other interests include Bisichi Mining. (£67m, 853=)

Brian Howard* Property. Howard Investment Company made £2.7m profit in the year
to September 2008 and had £69m net assets. Led by Howard, 74, the family also
owns another Cambridge business, Howard Ventures. (£72m, 782=)

The Earl of Leicester* Land. Leicester, 73, owns Holkham Hall, a vast Norfolk
estate, which hosts rock concerts to keep the wolf from the door. The family has
a valuable art collection (£68m, 843=)

Michael Slade Property. Slade, 63, the chief executive of London-based Helical
Bar, sold investments before the property price bubble burst. (£69m, 841=)

Frank Van Wezel Shoes. Van Wezel, 68, runs sports-shoe firm Hi-Tec Sports. A
director of Southend United, the Dutchman is valued at £93m by the 2009 Quote
500 list, but we are more cautious. (New entry)

Jonathan Wild* Tea and coffee. The Bettys and Taylors Group, maker of Yorkshire
Tea and the owner of genteel tearooms, is run by the Wild family, led by
Jonathan, 57. In the year to October 2008, it made £7.9m profit. (£70m, 793=)

Wing Yip* Cash and carry. Birminghambased W Wing Yip Brothers Trading, which
supplies about 2,000 Chinese restaurants, made £5.2m profit in 2009 and has
£27.9m net assets. The family, led by Yip, 72, also owns property. (£72m, 782=)

923= £70m

Rowan Atkinson Entertainment. Atkinson, 55, won the Whatsonstage Theatregoers'
Choice award for playing Fagin in Oliver! in February. Film earnings and
property assets keep him at £70m. (£70m, 793=)

Linda Bennett Shoes. LK Bennett, the shoe chain based in London, has 115 stores.
The 47-year-old founder sold a 70% stake for £100m before tax. (£70m, 793=)

Andrew Brode Business services. Brode, 69, runs Buckinghamshire's RWS Holdings,
Europe's biggest technical translation and patent search business. (£48m,
1,152=)

David Dein Finance and football. The former Arsenal vice-chairman, 66, sold his
stake in the club for £75m before tax and has other interests. (£65m, 863=)

Lord Drayson* Pharmaceuticals. Drayson, 50, founded Oxford-based vaccine
business Powderject Pharmaceuticals and sold it for £100m before tax. (£70m,
793=)

Gary Dutton Windows and conservatories. Dutton, 61, sold Nottinghamshire
doubleglazing company Synseal for £60m last year. There is other wealth. (£65m,
863=)

Belinda Earl Retailing. See panel on page 79

Ros and Steve Edwards Software. The couple launched bestCourse4Me.com to help
disadvantaged pupils reach university. Ros, 46, and Steve, 52, made £100m before
tax from their Cambridge software firm, Geneva Technology. (£70m, 793=)

Ernie Fisher* Steel. Fisher, 58, and his family own property and hotels, having
sold their 66% stake in Enniskillen-based Fisher Engineering. (£60m, 924=)

Peter FitzGerald* Pharmaceuticals. Randox is a Co Antrim firm specialising in
medical and veterinary diagnostic products. FitzGerald, 59, owns 98% of the
ordinary shares. Profits soared in 2008 from £3.6m to £6.2m. (£70m, 793=)

Emmanuel Gavaudan Finance. Gavaudan, 48, left Goldman Sachs and founded Boussard
& Gavaudan Partners, a London hedge fund, which in 2008 made £23.4m profit. He
has other assets. (New entry)

Robin Hall Finance. After 22 years as managing partner of Cinven, Hall, 61, is
now the London-based buyout group's executive chairman. He owns about 12% of the
Cinven Group, whose main operating company, Cinven Ltd, made a profit of £1.3m
in 2008. (£70m, 793=)

Lady Helen Hamlyn* Publishing and inheritance. Hamlyn, 76, inherited £50m from
her husband, Paul, the publishing tycoon, using the Helen Hamlyn Trust to
improve lives in Britain and India. She has other assets and homes in Chelsea
and Buckinghamshire. (£73m, 780=)

Simon Howard* Land. Howard, 54, hopes to fund more than £20m of vital repairs at
the Castle Howard estate in north Yorkshire by selling some of his land to
housebuilders. (£65m, 863=)

Jeremy Isaacs Finance. Isaacs, 46, the former head of Lehman Brothers' Europe
and Asia operations, has co-founded the London investment firm JRJ Group. After
Lehman's collapse, US Congress was told his salary in 2007 was $22m. (New entry)

Jim Leavesley* Property and military surplus. Staffordshire-based JT Leavesley
supplies planes, cranes, automobiles and memorabilia from the ex-forces ships it
breaks up. It is owned by Leavesley, 79, and his family. (£54m, 1,001=)

Sir John Mactaggart* Property. Glasgow property group Mactaggart Heritable saw
net assets fall by £9m to £82.3m in 2008. We value the business at £60m, adding
£10m for past dividends. (£70m, 793=)

The Duke of Marlborough Land and art. Blenheim Palace recently opened a £1.3m
multimedia tourist attraction to reveal its "untold history". Tourists are a
vital source of income for the Oxfordshire estate, home to Marlborough, 84.
(£65m, 863=)

Paris Natar Garden equipment. Gardman supplies garden and wildlife products to
more than 30 countries and made £9m profit in 2008-09. Natar, 54, founder and
chairman of the Lincolnshire business, sold a controlling stake in 2007 in a
deal that valued the firm at £85m. (£70m, 793=)

Nicholas Porter Student accommodation. Porter, 40, still has a £1m stake in
Unite, the Bristol student accommodation firm he founded in 1991, but is now
expanding the concept overseas. (£42m, 1,296=)

Matthew Riley Telecoms . See panel opposite

Daisy ringing the changes

923= £70m New entry

Matthew Riley Telecoms

Tycoon Riley had a humble start, repairing fax machines at the age of 16. Two
decades later he runs the Daisy Group, which provides phone lines and broadband
to businesses. Riley believes the company is positioning itself to "give BT a
run for its money". His enterprising spirit caught the attention of the judges
of the Sunday Times-Bank of Scotland Entrepreneur Challenge in 2007, where Daisy
triumphed - winning mentorship from retail tycoon Sir Philip Green (qv, left)
and a £5m interest-free loan. The former salesman founded the business in his
garage in Nelson, Lancashire. Nine years later, he is still based in the town
but has more than 200 employees. "We want Daisy to be a fun place," says Riley,
who recently bought a Routemaster bus to use on recruitment and promotion
drives. The business has grown rapidly with Riley, 36, taking over smaller
companies that ran into trouble in the recession. In 2007-08, Daisy made £1.9m
profit on £33m sales. In July 2009, the organisation floated on AIM in a £200m
reverse takeover of two other businesses. Riley, the chief executive, has a £51m
stake and share sales take him to £70m.

953= £69m New entry

Peter Darwell Energy

A series of career changes has paid dividends for 60-yearold Darwell. He's a
self-made, serial entrepreneur who started as a chef and later moved into
insurance, starting a financial services company at the age of 33. Although
Darwell Associates proved successful, its owner began to tire of bigger rivals
poaching his staff. He kept a keen eye out for other commercial opportunities
and soon spotted one in the deregulated electricity market. Darwell built
Economy Power into Britain's largest independent electricity provider. He made
£16m when it was sold to Eon in 2005, and turned his attention to Eco2, a
Cardiff-based renewable energy company where he is the chairman. He has had
offers valuing the business at £120m, making his stake worth about £35m.
Darwell, who lives in Cheshire, also chairs Tidal Energy in Cardiff, which was
set up to develop technology to generate electricity from tidal currents. "One
area that is going to be huge for the UK in the future is tidal energy," he
predicts. "It's free, it's limitless and it's entirely predictable." Other
assets and sale proceeds bring Darwell into the Rich List on £69m.

923= £70m

Graham Roach* Food production. The 2004 takeover of the Cornish business
Flagship Foods made about £70m for Roach, 62, a noted racehorse owner, and his
family trusts. (£75m, 751=)

Michael Samuel* Industry. Samuel, 57, led Mayborn, the London household and baby
products maker, until a 2006 takeover that made the family £57m. Interests
include bus firm Rotala. (£70m, 793=)

Vidal Sassoon Hairdressing. The 82-year-old Eastender made a fortune from
hairdressing salons, training schools and hair products. He has homes in Beverly
Hills and Notting Hill. (£70m, 793=)

Norman Springford* Hotels. Accountant Springford, 65, bought an empty university
building in Edinburgh in 1995 and turned it into a hotel. Now Apex Hotels has
£72.6m net assets. (£75m, 751=)

John Stone Finance. Luxembourg-based Lombard International Assurance, founded by
Stone, 66, sold in 2004 for up to £414m. He owned 30% of it. (£70m, 793=)

John Taylor Thermostats. Isle of Man firm Strix won a Chinese court victory
against two firms that were copying its thermostat technology. Taylor, 73, whose
father started the business, made £70m from selling his stake. (£70m, 793=)

Roger Taylor Music. Queen returned to the album chart with the Absolute Greatest
compilation last year. The drummer, 60, also released a solo single. (£65m,
863=)

Tony and Maureen Wheeler Publishing. Husband and wife Tony, 63, and Maureen, 60,
retain 25% of Lonely Planet, the travel guide empire based in London that they
sold to BBC Worldwide. (£60m, 924=)

Alastair Wylie Construction. Wylie, 59, owns 66% of Glasgow firm Campbell
Construction. Profits rose to £11.7m last year. He has other assets. (£64m,
900=)

953= £69m

Peter Darwell Energy. See panel on page 71

Gerald Leeke* Retailing and property . JH Leeke and Sons owns three superstores
in Wales and the West Country, and is developing luxury flats. Leeke, 68, chairs
the family business. (£56m, 980=)

Jonathan Milner Biosciences. Milner, 44, co-founded Cambridge-based Abcam to
sell antibodies online. His stake in the AIM-listed company is worth £59m. Share
sales add £10m. (£45m, 1,203=)

Rupert Mucklow* Property. Mucklow, 46, and his family have a £67m stake in
Birmingham developer A&J Mucklow plus salaries and dividends. (£56m, 980=)

957= £68m

Antony Crosthwaite-Eyre* Publishing. Camusrory, an 8,100-acre Highland estate,
was put on the market at £2m last year by the Crosthwaite-Eyre family, led by
Antony, 70, who made his fortune from the sale of publishing interests in 1987.
(£65m, 863=)

The Morgan family Press cuttings. The family made £72m from Romeike, the London
press cuttings service. Assets include a finance operation. (£68m, 843=)

Firoz Tejani* Foreign exchange. Tejani, 65, runs Lenlyn, which controls the
family currency operations, including ICE exchange bureaux. The Tejanis are
generous charity givers. (£43m, 1,288=)

Andrew Tinkler and William Stobart Transport. Stobart Group, the Warrington
logistics firm, is run by brothers-in-law Tinkler, 46, and Stobart, 48. They
have a £66m stake. (£52m, 1,046=)

961= £67m

Alexander Buchan* Fishing and transport. Buchan, 66, and his family have a £67m
stake in Peterhead-based Lunar. In 2008 it had £56.2m sales. (£40m, 1,348=)

Gavin Ferris Finance. Ferris, 40, has a £57m stake in the Aspect Capital hedge
fund in London, where he is a director. Bonuses add £10m. (£34m, 1,631=)

Roger Wickens* Property. Store Property, of Sussex, has a 1.5m sq ft portfolio
across London and the southeast. The business is owned by Wickens, 65, and
family, who have other interests. (£89m, 644=)

964= £66m

Ian Herd Oil and gas services. Aberdeenbased Integrated Subsea Services was
co-founded in 2002 by Herd, 52, and supports operations as far apart as the
North Sea and Caribbean. His stake is worth £66m. (£39m, 1,468=)

Seamus McAleer* Construction. McAleer & Rushe, the Northern Ireland property
group, is chaired by McAleer, 68, who with his family has interests in a number
of other businesses. (£45m, 1,203=)

Charles Wilson Retailing. Wilson, 44, is chief executive of Booker, the
cash-andcarry group. We add options, salaries and share gains to his stake.
(£51m, 1,074=)

967= £65m

Terry Adams* Quarrying and landfill. Adams, 70, sold his eponymous Devon
business to South West Water in 1997. He has quarry interests. (£65m, 863=)

Simon Arber Recruitment services. Share sales built the fortune of Arber, 51,
who co-founded SThree, the London-based recruitment company. (£65m, 863=)

Lord Archer Novels. The London-based novelist, 70, has been making more than £1m
a year from book sales since 1982. Property investments and his art collection
boost that wealth. (£65m, 863=)

Frank Bird* Food. Bird, 73, runs F&N Holdings, a family-owned poultry processing
and farming group in Penrith. Sales hit a record £48.8m. We add £23m for
salaries and dividends. (£52m, 1,046=)

Mark and Mo Constantine Cosmetics. Lush Cosmetics in Dorset has 650 stores
worldwide. Profits came in at £13.9m on £214.5m sales in 2008-09.
Husband-andwife founders Mark, 57, and Mo, 56, have a £63m stake plus dividends.
(£40m, 1,348=)

Philip Davies* Property. Davies, 89, has a portfolio focused on northern
England. His Manchester-based private company and other property operations have
assets of £65m. (£52m, 1,046=)

Simon Dolan Business services. Dolan's interests include Hertfordshire-based SJD
Accountancy, a motor racing team and publishing. His businesses are worth £58m.
Past salaries and property take Dolan, 40, to £65m. (New entry)

Roger Guy Finance. Fund manager Guy, 43, made £20m from the £676m flotation of
City investment house Gartmore last year and retains a stake, but the share
price has fallen sharply. (£120m, 438=)

Sir John Hall* Property and football. Hall, 77, recently diagnosed with prostate
cancer, developed the MetroCentre at Gateshead. Much of the proceeds went into a
stake in Newcastle United, sold in 2007. The family property business had £24.5m
assets in 2008. (£65m, 863=)

Timothy Ingram Hill* Motorway services. Wiltshire-based Ingram Hill, 60, and
family trusts received about £75m when the Roadchef motorway chain was sold in
1998. He has a hotel group. (£65m, 863=)

Michael Jacobson* Parcel delivery. Hertfordshire-based Canadian Jacobson, 60,
and his family trusts received more than £70m in the 1995 buyout of his ICS
Worldwide Couriers. (£65m, 863=)

Bob Keiller Oil services. Aberdeen-based PSN landed a five-year deal with BP
worth more than £200m. The firm, which services pipelines and plants, has been
valued at £600m. Chief executive Keiller, 46, has a 10.2% stake. (£61m, 921=)

Mustafa and Fatma Kiamil Food. Mustafa, 53, boosted his food wholesale company's
green credentials by designing an electric delivery truck. JJ Food Service,
based in London, is owned by Kiamil and his wife, Fatma, 48. (£42m, 1,296=)

David Lewis* Property. Lewis, 70, came out of semi-retirement in 2003 to develop
London offices. His company, Marylebone Property Corporation, showed £50.4m net
assets in 2007-08. (£65m, 863=)

Christopher Mills Finance. Mills, 57, has a £22m stake in North Atlantic Smaller
Companies Investment Trust and £31m of JO Hambro Capital Management plus other
wealth. (£96m, 573=)

Carole Nash* Insurance. Nash, 68, sold her Cheshire-based insurance broker,
specialising in motorbikes, in 2006. The Nash family owned it all. (£65m, 863=)

Chris Parker Travel. Parker, 62, owned half of Unijet, the Gatwick holiday group
sold for £110m in 1998. (£65m, 863=)

Tim Parker Retailing. Parker, 54, now at Samsonite, got a £40m payoff from the
AA for turning it round. He also had stakes in Kwik-Fit and Kenwood. (£65m,
863=)

Nick Rodwell and Fanny Vlamynck Books. Vlamynck, widow of Tintin creator Georges
Rémi, and husband Rodwell, 57, whose family owns a London industrial group, are
awaiting the release of a Tintin movie in 2011. (£65m, 863=)

Martyn Rose Media and investments. Rose, 61, a barrister, chairs companies in
sectors such as new media, art, engineering and financial services, the most
high-profile being Oxford's Publishing Technology. (£50m, 1,077=)

Andrew and Sharon Turner Finance. Andrew, 51, owns Norwich broker Central Trust,
whose profits fell in 2008 to £2.5m. He and his wife, Sharon, 52, a director,
have other assets. (£95m, 575=)

Sir Frank Williams Motor racing. Williams Grand Prix Engineering has not won a
world championship since 1997 but the Oxfordshire team made a £9.1m profit in
2008. After selling a stake last year, Williams, 68, has a £50m holding topped
up with salaries and dividends. (New entry)

Tony Williams* Industry. The Williams family led by Tony, 81, enjoyed a payday
of about £85m for its holding in Williams Lea when Deutsche Post bought a 75%
stake in the London information management group in 2007. (£65m, 863=)

991= £64m

Pat Harrington Construction. Londonbased PC Harrington is a market leader in
reinforced concrete. Harrington, 72, owns all of the company he founded, which
has £43.2m net assets and is worth £60m. We add £4m for other assets. (£30m,
1,771=)

Alex Langsam Hotels. The Heathlands in Bournemouth became the 35th location in
Britannia Hotels' portfolio last year. The Manchester-based firm, co-founded by
Langsam, 71, and Michael Morton (qv), had £68.4m net assets. (£60m, 924=)

Harold Martin Industry. Derbyshire-based HW Martin Holdings provides services
such as fencing and waste disposal for clients including the Highways Agency and
the Prison Service. It is worth £50m. Past salaries and dividends take the
owner, Martin, 75, to £64m. (£45m, 1,203=)

Michael Morton Hotels. Morton, 72, set up Britannia Hotels with Alex Langsam
(qv). He holds 50% of the Manchester-based chain, which has £68.4m net assets,
and further wealth. (£62m, 910=)

Mayank Patel Finance. Patel's Currencies Direct made £3.2m profit on £1.2
billion sales in 2008-09. The London operation is worth £80m and Patel, 42, owns
63%.Other assets and past salaries add to Patel's wealth. (£54m, 1001=)

Jimmy and Simon Thomas Bingo. The father-and-son team, aged 76 and 44, sold
their Loughborough leisure business, including Beacon Bingo, for a reported £80m
in 2006. The family owns United Leisure Group (£60m, 924=)

Chris Wright Music. Chrysalis has recovered from a low point in late 2008 and
the London business is now worth £69m. Wright, 65, made £23m in 2007 when
Chrysalis sold its radio arm for £170m and returned £96m to its shareholders in
a special dividend. He has property assets. (£55m, 986=)

James Young* Pubs. Young & Co made £69m from the sale of its historic Ram
brewery site in Wandsworth, south London, in 2007. Much of the money has gone
into its pub estate. John Young, who led the family business for more than four
decades, died in the last week beer was brewed at the site. The wider family,
ledby his son James, 58, has a stake worth £59m and other assets. (£63m, 906=)

999= £63m

Terry Smith Finance. Essex-based boxing fan Smith, 56, is chief executive of the
broker Tullett Prebon, in which he has a stake worth £33m. He runs the former
subsidiary of Collins Stewart, now an investment bank, in which his holding is
worth £7m. We add £23m for share sales and property. (£47m, 1,189=)

Trevor Storer* Food. See panel opposite

967= £65m £25m, 63%

Jamie Oliver

Food and media

Oliver's healthy eating message didn't go down too well when he took it to
America last month. He was reduced to tears in Huntington, West Virginia, where
schoolchildren gorged on pizza for breakfast, and was told by chat show host
David Letterman: "Try as hard as you might, you are never going to succeed." The
Essex boy, scourge of the turkey twizzler, won't give up easily, however, and
got decent ratings on US television. Oliver made his name on TV shows in this
country and has gone on to write a series of cookery books and run his own
restaurants, including the Fifteen chain that gives disadvantaged youngsters the
chance to forge a career in cooking. Profits at Jamie Oliver Holdings, the
chef's parent company, rose by 82% from £3.7m to £6.8m in 2008. Oliver, 34, and
his wife, Jools, awarded themselves a dividend of £800,000. He ranks among our
top 25 philanthropists, cooking up £2.75m for charity last year .

2009: £40m, 1,348=

The pie's the limit

999= £63m £8m, 15%

Trevor Storer and family Food

In times of austerity the British public's palate craves the rib-sticking,
pocket-friendly qualities of pastryencased meat and vegetables, hence the
impressive financial performance of Pukka Pies during the recession. Explaining
why people have been choosing to eat "straightforward" pies, Tim Storey, 46,
left, the son of Pukka Pies founder and chairman Trevor, 79, inset, and brother
of co-managing director Andrew, 49, far left, said: "You don't want food going
uneaten at a time like this." Sold in fish and chip shops, Pukka's pies,
pasties, sausage rolls and sausages are increasingly stocked in supermarkets and
exported. The company, founded in 1962, showed publicity savvy with its
sponsorship of ITV's Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?, which helped raise its
profile. Pukka Pies is to create jobs and increase production with a £6m
investment at its factory in Leicestershire. This will enable it to double
capacity to 2m pies and pasties a week. In the year to May 2009, it made £6.5m
profit on £34.1m sales, and showed more than £30.5m net assets. The family is
worth £63m with other assets and past dividends .

2009: £55m, 986=

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 2, 2010



CORRECTION: Mike Ashley, the owner of Newcastle United football club, has asked
us to make clear that he has not "pledged to make at least £25m available this
summer to buy players" as stated in last week's Sunday Times Rich List. We are
happy to correct the record.

Peter Cruddas In the entry for Peter Cruddas, we inadvertently used a subsidiary
company's figures when quoting company accounts for CMC Markets plc. The correct
2008-9 figures for CMC Markets were a £15.1m loss on sales of £193.2m.

John Whittaker In a table of political donors, we incorrectly attributed to John
Whittaker, chairman of the Peel Group, a donation of £81,409 to the United
Kingdom Independence party (UKIP). We are happy to confirm that Mr Whittaker,
who is not registered to vote in the UK, made no such donation and apologise for
this error and the embarrassment caused. The donation was made by Dr John
Whittaker, the former UKIP MEP for the North West.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 25, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Never mind the ballots

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 569 words


THE WEEK IN A NUTSHELL

The big issue of the week has been Nick Clegg: does he dance naked at Satanic
masses and then claim for his severed goat's heads on expenses? Or, worse, was
he once a junior political lobbyist?

As political argument seemed to have no effect on the Liberal Democrat opinion
poll surge, the parties have resorted to Plan B - trying to frighten us. Ken
Clarke warned that a hung parliament would wreck the economy. Gordon Brown
warned that Clegg was a dangerous anti-American. Newspapers claimed he was
playing down his posh background, and is actually called Nicholas de Pfeffal
Anstruther-Forbes-Clegg. Princes William and Harry were his fags at Westminster,
where he was voted Most Ridiculously Upper Class Boy of His Year

The three main party leaders took part in their second televised debate. Clegg
came first again; or possibly David Cameron. Opinion polls were divided. There
was no doubt who came third, though

On Friday it was announced that the economy grew by 0.2% in the first three
months of this year. The Conservatives said the figures proved the country
needed change. Labour said they proved that change would be dangerous. The
Liberal Democrats said that growth was 'barely visible' (which I think we could
probably have worked out for ourselves)

CLEGG HAS CAKE, EATS IT

More good opinion poll news for the Liberal Democrats: the party has established
a commanding lead among cupcake lovers. Asda has produced a special election
range of cakes decorated with a rosette in red, blue, yellow or green. Lib Dem
cupcakes accounted for 35% of sales last week, with Tory cupcakes on 26%, Labour
at 24%, the Green cakes at 14%.

So never mind if the economy dips, let them eat cake

GOOD CAMPAIGN

Gordon Brown Universally hailed as 'not as bad as he was the previous week'

BAD CAMPAIGN

Lord Pearson of Rannoch

The UK Independence party prides itself on being different from the political
mainstream, but its leader last week took this idea and tested it to
destruction. Interviewed by presenter Jon Sopel on the BBC's Campaign Show,
Pearson floundered when asked about his party policy. 'Have you read your
manifesto?' Sopel asked 'I haven't remembered it all in great detail,' admitted
Pearson. 'I didn't come on to talk about this sort of thing'

The Daily Mirror chicken

Wherever Cameron has gone on the campaign trail, a Daily Mirror journalist has
been right behind him - dressed as a giant chicken On Tuesday the Tory leader
pounced. He put his arm around the chicken, spoke warm words of praise, and then
ripped off the chicken's head. The following day, somebody threw an egg at
Cameron. It wasn't the chicken

QUOTES FROM THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL

It feels like 1906 - the Liberals are ahead in the polls and not a plane in the
sky A historical perspective from the ConservativeHome website

I think he'll be prime minister for five years, unless he went for an election
after four years and then went on to our fifth term

Ed Balls, children's secretary, holds out the prospect of Gordon Brown clinging
on until 2017. Is that wise?

Women, and you are one of them...

Gordon Brown correctly identifies a member of the audience at Thursday's
leaders' debate

I never thought I'd say this, but I agree with Gordon

David Cameron opposes Nick Clegg's plan to scrap Trident

I must be the only politician in the space of a week to go from Churchill to
Nazi

Nick Clegg accepts the backlash that comes with sudden popularity

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Don't shoot until you see the whites of their lies: masked paintballers
in West Lothian go on the hunt for Nick Clegg
DEREK BLAIR

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 25, 2010 Sunday 12:38 PM GMT

The Lib Dems' spooky posse of internet pests

BYLINE: By Cristina Odone

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 303 words


I'm spooked. Although I've been a commentator for years,I'm new to blogging. So
it's come as a bit of a shock to discover that everything I write that is even
mildly critical of the Lib Dem sacred cows, Nick Clegg and Dr Evan Harris,
provokes instant, ferocious and unchecked response. Like that other minor party
with big pretensions, UKIP, the Lib Dems spend a lot of time and effort
monitoring the internet. But with the UKIP lot you get individual comments
spluttering with white van man rage at a system that won't hear them out. This
is different from the Lib Dems'rapid reaction force. Theirs is a team effort:
once the whistle blows, the lever is pulled to unleash the forces of hell upon
those with the temerity to question their icons. Hence theresponse to my post on
Dr Harris (nicknamed "Dr Death" by his Westminster colleagues).

It's weird, because one of the reasons I feel so angry about the present Labour
lot is that I've seen, up close and personal, what thugs they really are. Dare
to question their core values (a big fat State, comprehensive education,
man-hating feminism) and they'll try to muzzle you any way they can. These are
not the tactics of a democracy, and, until now, I didn't think they were the
tactics of the Lib Dems.

There's no room in the Lib-Labs' intolerant culture for discussion. An attack on
any principle - say, changes to abortion legislation - is an attack on all their
agenda. This knee-jerk hostility makes it impossible to agree on other areas,
like civil liberties, where the Lib Dems have made the most sensible
contributions of any party, or alternative medicine, where Dr Harris's position
is admirable. But the Lib-Lab demagogues allow for fewer shades of grey than a
Student Union debate. It's this tendency that makes me shudder at the prospect
of a Lib-Lab pact.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Deported for fourth time, the one-man migrant crimewave

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 668 words


LABOUR'S open-border policy was laid bare last night after an illegal immigrant
bag snatcher who was once given £3,000 of taxpayers' money was told he would be
deported for an astonishing fourth time.

Hakim Benmakhlouf, who was described as a one-man crimewave, was behind bars
last night for a violent assault on a police officer at Heathrow.

Isleworth Crown Court in west London yesterday heard how the jobless Algerian
had flouted immigration rules. The 28-year-old, who has a string of convictions
for stealing at hotels and airports, was given the £3,000 to leave the UK.

But he returned to Britain the very next day by Eurostar to continue his life of
crime.

Benmakhlouf, who has no right to be in this country, was first thrown out in
July 2007 after he was released early from a three-and-a-half year jail term for
theft. As part of a voluntary repatriation package, he was given the cash
handout.

He was arrested in April 2008. The following month at Southwark Crown Court,
judge John price said: "The Government even gave you £3,000 to go back to
Algeria. You did go back then you came back here.

"You should not be here, you are a danger to this society and you should be
deported as soon as possible."

Benmakhlouf was jailed for a further three years for theft but was released less
than a year later and again flown home at taxpayers' expense. This time he did
not qualify for the £3,000 handout which is granted only once. He slipped back
into the country, however, and was arrested and deported for a third time in
January this year.

Yesterday Judge Andrew McDowall ruled that Benmakhlouf would be deported for a
fourth time, after serving a sixmonth sentence for assault. He said: "As you
shouldn't be in this country it seems there is little purpose in making your
sentence particularly lengthy."

There was outrage last night that the serial offender was repeatedly allowed
back into the country to commit crime.

Tory home affairs spokesman Chris Grayling said: "It's absurd that someone like
this can continue to get away with abusing our border controls. We need a
dedicated border police force to clamp down on this kind of abuse."

UKIP Euro-MP Gerard Batten said: "This highlights the idiocy of a system that
rewards criminality and encourages bad behaviour. No wonder people across the
third world are risking their lives to get here."

Mark Wallace, of campaign group the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This man is
walking proof that our border controls are an international joke.

"We argued at the time that if you pay people to leave they will just come back
in the hope of getting more money, and that seems to be exactly what he is
doing." Benmakhlouf enjoyed a lavish lifestyle with a home in fashionable St
John's Wood, north London, and a collection of designer clothes.

He was one of more than 23,000 illegal immigrants who were flown home for free
and given thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money to stay there.

Described by one detective as "the most skilful bag thief I have ever seen", he
targeted tourists at airports and hotels as well as trains and attractions such
as Madame Tussauds.

Prosecutor Gavin Kirkpatrick said he had a history of theft going back over 10
years.

"He was deported last on January 23, 2010. It is unknown when he managed to
return to this country."

Judge McDowall warned Ben makhlouf he faced a long jail term if he ever came
back to Britain. He said: "I am prepared to operate on the assumption you are
not planning to come back. If you are back again you can expect to receive a
signifi-cantly longer sentence by way of direct punishment to make sure the
message gets home."

Last night a UK Border Agency spokesman said: "We will seek to remove this
individual as soon as the judicial process is concluded."

OPINION: PAGE 14

Q Should foreign crooks be kicked out for good?

YES: 0901 030 8348 NO: 0901 030 8349

Yes text DXsATYEs to 80088 No text DXsATNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Algerian bag snatcher Hakim Benmakhlouf was given £3,000 to leave
Britain but came back the very next day by Eurostar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Jailed for theft, migrant who's been deported 3 times already

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 436 words


LABOUR'S open-door policy was laid bare last night after an illegal immigrant
branded a "one-man crime wave" was told he will be deported for an astonishing
fourth time.

Hakim Benmakhlouf, a prolific bag snatcher, was behind bars last night for a
violent assault on a police officer at London's Heathrow airport last month.

Isleworth Crown Court heard yesterday how the jobless Algerian had flouted
immigration rules.

Benmakhlouf, 28, who has a string of convictions for stealing at hotels and
airports, was even given £3,000 of taxpayers' money to leave the UK.

But he returned to Britain the very next day by Eurostar to continue his life of
crime.

Benmakhlouf, who has no right to be in this country, was first thrown out in
July 2007 after he was released early from a three-and-a-half-year jail term for
theft, as part of a Government voluntary repatriation package that included the
£3,000 handout.

Outrage He was arrested again in April 2008 and jailed for a further three years
for theft. But he was released less than a year later and again flown home at
taxpayers' expense, although he did not qualify for the £3,000 handout, which is
granted only once.

He slipped back into the country, however, and was arrested and deported for a
third time in January this year.

Yesterday Judge Andrew McDowall ruled that Benmakhlouf would be deported for a
fourth time, after serving a six-month sentence for assault. The judge said: "As
you shouldn't be in this country, it seems there is little purpose in making
your sentence particularly lengthy."

There was outrage last night that the serial offender was repeatedly allowed
back into the country.

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said: "It's absurd that someone like this
can continue to get away with abusing our border controls. We need a dedicated
border police force to clamp down on this kind of abuse."

UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "This highlights the idiocy of a system that
rewards criminality and encourages bad behaviour."

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "We argued at the time that if
you pay people to leave they will just come back in the hope of getting more
money, and that seems to be exactly what he is doing."

Described by one detective as "the most skilful bag thief I have ever seen",
Benmakhlouf targeted rich tourists at airports and hotels as well as packed
trains and attractions such as Madame Tussauds.

Judge McDowall warned Benmakhlouf that he faced a long jail term if he ever came
back to Britain.

Last night the Home Office said they could not comment on the case due to rules
concerning the general election.

OPINION: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Algerian bag snatcher Hakim Benmakhlouf was given £3,000 to leave
Britain but came back the very next day by Eurostar

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

This ash cloud trumps all 'bendy bananas'

BYLINE: Martin Hickman

SECTION: Pg. 68

LENGTH: 730 words


A few years ago, tabloid papers revelled in tales of interference in daily life
by "Brussels bureaucrats". This meddling invariably involved attempts to ban
cherished things; the pint of beer, the sale of spuds in pounds, the signposting
of roads in miles, and, most infamously, bendy bananas. As a journalist on the
Hull Daily Mail in 1995, one of my reports contributed to this melange:
following EU rules, a British inspector had ordered the return to Spain of 880
punnets of strawberries on the grounds that they were too square.

While some Europhiles suggested these stories had been cooked up by xenophobic
hacks, many of them were at least partly rooted in fact, as I discovered in
Hull. So, Britain is officially committed to ditching the pint and the mile;
greengrocers must sell in kilos and the EU does specify the exact curvature of
bananas. But the other side of the story is that the UK has negotiated an
unlimited opt-out for the pint and mile; greengrocers may display prices in
pounds and they may also sell bendy bananas, though not as Class I fruit.

So, donning my referee's black kit, what are we to make of the claims made this
week that Europe hindered travellers by delaying the UK's response to the threat
from volcanic ash? Nigel Farage, the UKIP politician seeking a Westminster seat,
claimed the EU's Single European Sky agreement was preventing Britain from
lifting the no-fly zone.

The agreement co-ordinates air traffic control between EU members. Because this
was a safety issue, it was up to individual states to decide when to resume
flying and Continental states demonstrated this by lifting restrictions before
Britain did. Richard Taylor, of the UK regulator, the Civil Aviation Authority,
said: "Nigel Farage obviously hasn't got any knowledge of aviation. [Single
European Sky] hasn't got anything to do with the events of the past week."

The EU did, though, interfere severely in the treatment of passengers - by
giving them the right to recompense for delays. Regulations overseen by Brussels
bureaucrats will result in the reimbursement of hotel and other expenses for
tens of thousands of passengers. Although it isn't perfect - as Ryanair showed
by initially refusing to pay up - the EU Regulation on Air Passenger Rights is
one of the best examples of a European policy protecting consumers with a
robustness probably beyond the reach of individual member states. Similarly, the
package travel regulations protects anyone booking a traditional package
holiday; there are plans to extend this to travellers booking DIY holidays on
the internet.

There are many other examples of EU action, such as the cleaning up of bathing
beach water, the ban on phthalates in children's PVC toys, and the catch-all
anti-crooks charter, the unfair commercial practices directive. Particularly
successful has been the crackdown on "roaming" charges, which has slashed the
cost of phoning home from abroad - and which was fiercely resisted by mobile
phone companies.

When I visited Brussels two years ago, MEPs stressed that while much of the EU's
focus had been on making the common market work well for business, now was the
time to make it work well for consumers, too.

The question is: how long will the EU's doughty defence of the public last?
Consumer groups in Brussels tell me that lobbyists representing commercial
interests have considerably stepped up their operations recently. With much
reform coming out of Brussels rather than Westminster, this expense-accounted
army of spinners and fixers will be trying to nobble future versions of the air
passenger rights charter.

m.hickman@independent.co.uk

HEROES AND VILLAINS

Some gains, some losses and much to be careful of

Hero: Lloyds Bank

As regular readers know, this column does not often garland banks, but raise a
small cheer for Lloyds, which has promised to waive penalty fees for customers
among the tens of thousands of airline passengers who ran up overdrafts or paid
credit card instalments late because they were stranded abroad this week.

Villain: wedding insurance

Couples spend an an average of £15,261 on their big day, according to a survey.
So it's probably worth taking out an insurance policy - but check the small
print. Defaqto checked 80 policies and found only 14 per cent covered a
supplier's "failure to meet obligations"- useful if you have a duff
photographer, cake-maker or venue.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

VOTE FOR FOOTBALL

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 114 words


FOOTBALL has entered the general election debate. Labour has put up some ideas
about fan ownership. Good.

The Liberal Democrats have a policy of allowing safe standing. Good. The Tories
have said they will review the standing issue. Good. Labour says it's still
against the right to sit or stand. Bad.

We've despatched a series of questions to the three biggest parties as well as
the Greens, UKIP and Plaid Cymru.

The responses we get will be published on the FSF website.

We're also encouraging fans to write to their local candidates about
footballrelated issues. Send us details of the replies you receive to general
election2010@fsf.org.uk Join the FSF free today @fsf.org.uk/join.php

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 24, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Wedding dinners become arduous when you're single and you're inevitably set up
during one';
Beta male

BYLINE: Sathnam Sanghera

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 82

LENGTH: 800 words


Can't remember why or how, but the other day I found myself on Mumsnet,
following a discussion on weddings. The conversation had been sparked by the
question, "What really annoys you as a guest?", and there was a great deal that
hit home among the responses. Dress codes. Sugared almonds. Hanging around for
two hours with no access to drinks or snacks while the couple have their picture
taken...

But the most intriguing thing about the litany of complaints was what had been
omitted: namely, the seating plan. The worst thing about modern matrimony, in my
experience, is not the cheap prosecco, wedding lists with nothing less than £100
gifts on them or couples performing their first dance to songs with woefully
inappropriate lyrics, but the moment you arrive for dinner and are faced with
the reality of whom you'll be sitting next to for a period of at least three
hours.

Fortunately, I've not had an experience as harsh as the friend who entered a
marquee and glanced at the seating plan to discover she would be spending a hot
afternoon sitting beside a four-year-old who was being fed through a tube (the
seat on the other side was vacant). But there have been experiences almost as
agonising: three hours stuck between a voluble and enthusiastic genealogist and
a German with no English; two and a half hours between a couple who were members
of UKIP and considering emigrating to Australia because Britain was "going to
the dogs"; several hours spent between my boss and the vicar, having consumed a
litre of Pimm's in the wait for dinner; and more than 90 minutes playing
gooseberry (until I suggested moving seats) to a pair of Sloanes who fancied the
pants off each other.

I'd been set up with one of them, of course, and this is perhaps why wedding
dinners didn't merit a mention on Mumsnet: they only become truly arduous when
you're single, and you're inevitably set up during one. Which is better than not
being set up. But the thoughtfulness of the gesture is invariably counteracted
by (a) the distress of being set up with someone with the charm of a leg ulcer,
making you wonder what on earth the bride and groom think of you and question
your entire friendship; (b) being watched a little too closely by the couples
around you with a mixture of envy and pity, and having your inept efforts to
impress documented with one of those disposable cameras left lying on the table
in an effort to induce wackiness; (c) not being able to escape when it's
obvious, within the first ten seconds of speaking, that there's no spark and you
have absolutely nothing in common. Indeed, there is something intrinsically
unromantic about weddings, in the way there is something intrinsically un-fun
about New Year's Eve: the pressure to get it together being so intense that it
becomes impossible to get it together.

Having said that, last year I attended a friends' wedding where the set-up, for
once, wasn't a disaster. I was seated next to someone attractive and mildly
amusing, who seemed to find me mildly attractive and amusing in return, we
exchanged stories that were self-deprecating but still carried vital nuggets of
flattering information about ourselves, and, eventually, after an inadvertently
sexual speech from the godfather of the bride and the cutting of the cake, there
was a walk in the grounds and a snog... One thing didn't quite lead to another,
because I was driving the wedding car and therefore too sober, and she also
expressed a desire to dance. And I don't dance. As a child, I was forced
regularly to bop along to bhangra at weddings and then, a few days later, forced
by my family to watch a video of myself trying to bop along, with everyone
pointing and laughing at my lack of rhythm and co-ordination, and the experience
was scarring. David Nicholls, writing in this magazine a few weeks ago, said
that he had, at the age of 43, for reasons of preserving dignity, privately
resolved never, ever to dance again. I reached that stage at 17. Besides, I was
grateful to have broken the curse of the Singles Table, and was keen to quit
while ahead.

Which I did. The rest of the wedding passed in a summery blur of sugared
almonds, avoiding the overbearing photographer who seemed to believe he was
directing the entire event, and I forgot about the girl in question entirely.
Until the other day, that is, when she appeared at a friend's birthday party. I
couldn't recall where we'd met, but she did, and she reminded me cheerfully of
the details before introducing me to a tall bloke hovering next to her with the
words "my fianc��". I had just begun issuing congratulations when she added: "I
met him at the wedding actually. He was on the dancefloor. And it seemed to me
he was everything that you weren't."

I look forward to the wedding invitation.

Robert Crampton is away

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHRIS MCANDREW

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

BYLINE: PARALYSED BY RIFT IN TORY WAR CABINET

LENGTH: 938 words


ANDREW PIERCE THE STORIES THE SPIN DOCTORS DON'T WANT YOU TO READ

THE Tory election machine may be the bestoiled in decades with an 618 million
war chest.

But in its first serious test -- managing the public reaction to Nick Clegg's
victory in the first TV talent show that masquerades as the leaders' debate --
the operation was paralysed by bitter in-fighting.

There was one angry showdown between Andy Coulson, the director of
communications, and George Osborne, the shadow chancellor, who is running the
campaign. Osborne was enraged that the Tories could not agree a response to
Clegg's clear victory.

One reason for the paralysis is that Coulson inexplicably thought Cameron, who
was plastered in more slap than Joan Collins, had done well.

As a result, for days the party's shell-shocked candidates were denied an agreed
form of response on the doorsteps.

Meanwhile, Lord Mandelson, the high priest of political spin, was bolstering
perceptions of Clegg's performance.

It was a cynical exercise: boost Clegg at the expense of Cameron to give Labour
a chance of clinging to power in a hung parliament. And this caused even more
confusion in the Tory ranks.

William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, went on the attack over Clegg's
passion for a European super-state. Osborne launched a solo operation on Lib Dem
proposals on immigration. They were effective attacks -- but short-lived. The
reason? Coulson, a renowned control freak, had ordered radio silence.

It was only when Ken Clarke, the shadow business secretary, was sent out on
Wednesday with his withering attack on the effect of a hung parliament that it
became clear a strategy had been agreed. But that was six days too late.

Coulson, on 6275,000-a-year, is the Tories highest paid apparatchik. One senior
party figure said: 'None of us anticipated the reaction to Clegg. But Coulson is
paid big money to put out those sort of fires. They're still burning.'

ADAM BOULTON, the heavyweight (in more ways than one) political editor of Sky
was always going to be scrupulous moderating last night's debate. He, too, went
to Westminster School -- admittedly a few years before Nick Clegg whose fag was
the comedian Louis Theroux -- so was particularly careful not to be seen to
favour Clegg.

LIB-DEM SPITFIRE TAKES POT SHOTS AT CLEGG

CLEARLY many Lib Dems disagree with their leader's shameful claim -- reported in
the Daily Mail yesterday -- when he was an MEP that we should play down our role
in beating the Nazis in World War II. The Lib Dem candidate in Dover, with its
iconic white cliffs, has plastered a Spitfire across his election leaflets. John
Brigden, who is fighting the Labour marginal, adds for good measure: 'The
Liberal Democrats have always been strong on Defence.' Even though Clegg, of
course, committed his party to the abolition of the Trident nuclear deterrent.

FOX HOUNDED BY MISFORTUNE HERO OF THE DAY

LIAM FOX, the shadow defence secretary, missed his big moment launching the
Tories' defence manifesto yesterday.

Burglars broke into his home -- he had left the patio doors open -- while he was
in his flat. They stole his laptop and his car. The break-in happened on the day
quarterly crime statistics for England and Wales were being published by the
Home Office. Fox, whose wife Jesme is still stranded in Hong Kong because of
Iceland's volcano, eventually made it to the TV studios where, in a BBC waiting
room he saw Charles Kennedy, the Lib Dems' nearly-man, struggling with a
BlackBerry for several minutes.

Kennedy had picked up Fox's phone, so Fox leant across and politely asked for it
back. Was Kennedy confused, or was it a sneaky attempt to read Fox's emails.?

CLEGG'S new-found stardom on the back of the first TV debate has already brought
him one bonus. Until his debating triumph, the Lib Dem leader featured so low in
the national consciousness that Google searches for his name frequently returned
another Nick Clegg at the top of the list -- an estate agent specialising in
Bury, Ramsbottom and Rossendale.

An estate agent called Nick Clegg? Or a Lib Dem called Nick Clegg? Now, which
one would you trust the most?

LETWIN'S GETTING IN A EURO TWIST

ONE shadow cabinet member who is particularly upset by the Lib Dem bounce is
Oliver Letwin, the architect of Big Society -- the big Tory policy initiative
which is hardly the talk of every pub and club in the country.

Letwin has warned party HQ he is in trouble in his West Dorset
constituency-where he is defending a 2,400 majority. The Ukip, which wants
withdrawal from the EU, is stealing Letwin's votes.

It's madness, of course. Ukip could hand the seat to the Lib Dems -- the party
in second place which wants ever-closer links to Brussels and to join the single
currency.

HERO OF THE DAY

THE BBC's Stephanie Flanders, who pointed out that, while Lib Dem Shadow
Chancellor Vince Cable said he agreed with 'quantative easing', he'd previously
denounced it as 'the Robert Mugabe School of Economics'. Left gasping by her
observation, St Vince's halo was well and truly dented.

YOU DON'T SAY!

'THIS is not his natural theatre. He is not a song and dance man,' -- Alan
Johnson, Home Secretary, on Gordon Brown.

BET OF THE DAY

7-1 on one of the three leaders saying 'Eyjafjallajoekull' before the election.

GAFFE OF THE DAY

'WE should let the Tories and the Libs fight it out in the presentation stakes.'
-- David Miliband, Foreign Secretary, conceding that the PM neither looks or
sounds the part.

SOUR GRAPES

'WITH today's decision, the BBC has proved it is part of the same discredited
establishment machine as the Westminster parties.' -- Alex Salmond, SNP leader,
on being excluded from the debates.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Death of hopeful

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 53 words


THE election in Thirsk and Malton will be delayed after the UKIP candidate
suddenly died.

John Boakes, in his 60s, standing for the North Yorkshire seat, is thought to
have had a heart attack.

Janet Waggott, Acting Returning Officer for Ryedale District Council, said: "The
revised date for the election will be May 27."

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip candidate dies;
Election Briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 53 words


The election in Thirsk and Malton, North Yorks, has been delayed after the Ukip
candidate died.

The parliamentary election will be held on May 27 to allow the party time to
find a replacement for John Boakes.

Mr Boakes, who was in his sixties, is believed to have had a heart attack. Only
Ukip are allowed a new candidate.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Telegraph jury Clegg loses on Trident but wins on style

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 526 words


Relve Spread Age: 30 Lives: With friends Job: Graduate student Constituency:
Battersea Last time: Labour This time: Undecided All were strong at different
points. Clegg's experience with Europe was convincing, but nuclear power and
Trident was his undoing. Brown was stronger this week, especially with his
experience on Afghanistan. Cameron was strong at the coalition question.

Jules Watson Age: 40 Lives: With wife and daughter Job: Restaurateur
Constituency: Richmond Park Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative Brown had an awful start - his forced grin looking so wrong.
Cameron by contrast had a strong and clear opening. As the debate progressed it
showed that the strong parties were the old school - Clegg was outclassed and
outpunched.

Melissa Newman Age: 52 Lives: With husband and three children Job: Housewife
Constituency: Guildford Last time: Conservative This time: Probably Conservative
David Cameron came across much better this week. There was not such a gap
between him and Nick Clegg. Gordon Brown still came in third place for me. Mr
Cameron picked up on Nick Clegg's technique of looking straight into camera.

David Pagan Age: 44 Lives: With wife and two children Job: Finance manager
Constituency: Solihull Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably Lib Dem
Gordon Brown was very statesmanlike. He gave a much better performance than last
week. Tory supporters must be beginning to get very worried about Mr Cameron,
who clearly came in a poor third for me. Overall, I thought Mr Clegg outshone
him again. The Tory leader seemed very ill at ease.

Clifford Forsyth Age: 67 Lives: with wife. Has two sons Job: retired IT
technician Constituency: Harrow West Last time: Conservative This time: probably
Ukip Well at least David Cameron bothered to turn up this week - that was the
big difference. I think Nick Clegg being in the middle worked against him this
week. It put him more in the spotlight and saw that he lost on policies, which
were more in focus this time.

Shelly Asquith Age: 19 Lives: With parents Job: Marketing assistant
Constituency: Chelmsford Last time: Not eligible This time: Labour I think
Cameron clearly fell down during the foreign affairs section. He particularly
stuck out as the anti-EU politician among the three.

Mr Clegg's pledges to boycott nuclear energy and weapons seem unaffordable and
unreasonable.

Peter Wood Age: 57 Job: Economic consultant Lives: With wife and two daughters
Constituency: Edinburgh South Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative On the big issues - international relations, energy - the clear
loser was Mr Clegg. He lacks gravitas and depth. On those matters Mr Brown won.
For example, Mr Cameron's European policy is a liability.

Rachel Clarke Age: 39 Lives: Alone Job: Head of social media at digital
marketing firm Constituency: Brentford and Isleworth Last time: Conservative
This time: Tory/Lib Dem Mr Clegg is still impressive, though I am less enamoured
of his defence and EU stances. Mr Brown was very strong on his past actions. I'm
more impressed with Mr Cameron this week, but he still feels less solid in what
he is saying than the others.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Devious Clegg is as big a fake as Blair

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 470 words


IHAVE spent much of the week muttering, "Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear" as an almost
hysterical media and a chunk of the voting public went into a collective swoon
after listening to a few words from Master Nicholas Clegg.

Let us be brutally frank: Master Clegg appears to be a very nice young man. He
is good looking, youthful, clean cut, public school, beautifully mannered (well
that's what daddy paid for), charming and very, very plausible.

But just a moment. Fifteen years ago, long before David Cameron appeared, we
apparently fell in love with another former public school boy, also fetching,
mannered with charm to pull the birds off the trees and extremely plausible. The
electorate fell for him and believed every word he said.

They even believed he was "a straight kind of guy" (he was bent as a corkscrew),
that there were WMDs in Iraq (there weren't), that he had seen the evidence (he
hadn't) and that his chancellor was brilliant (he was, in the process of
bankrupting the nation). Tony Blair is now totally and utterly discredited. My
point: looks, manners, charm, plausibility are not enough. Today's real heir to
Blair? Nicholas Clegg.

The truth is that behind Master Clegg stands a party of three tendencies. The
Lib Dems' Left wing is the real barmy army. They truly believe in the
brotherhood of man, unilateral disarmament, peace on demand, world government
and gathering nuts in May.

THEN the dodgy smilers. They have just as many expenses scalpers (in proportion)
as the Tories and some of the dodgiest party donors since Maundy Gregory sold
peerages for Lloyd George.

And they have their own attack dogs on a par with Charlie Whelan and Damian
McBride. Labour and Tory canvassers, who do not agree about much, are at one on
this: the Lib Dems on the street are the dirtiest tricksters around. According
to the region, constituency and issue they will say anything, promise anything
and pretend anything for your vote.

In the EU-sceptic South-west they are anti-Brussels. In Westminster and Brussels
they grovel in delighted servitude. Like his deputy Chris Huhne, Nick Clegg is a
diehard true believer in the complete political integration of Europe. That can
only mean a United States of Europe in which the old concept of the homeland and
nation will simply have to be shuffled into history. He truly yearns to abolish
the pound.

Tory Headshed sometimes talks a lot of tripe but they are right on this: whether
UKIP or Lib Dem, splitting the Conservative vote on a satisfying whim is simply
going to put the gurning numpty who bankrupted our country back into Downing
Street.

But there are millions out there so brainwashed by years of hype and lies that
they might actually think Nicholas Clegg stands for a new-turned-leaf in our
debased political life. He doesn't, alas. He stands for the return of Brown.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Migrant arrest team axed as new Brown lie exposed

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 386 words


GORDON Brown's lies on immigration were exposed again yesterday after it emerged
that frontline officers who have arrested 1,000 illegal immigrants in a year are
to be axed.

Immigration chiefs had claimed that vital staff, with powers to arrest illegal
immigrants working without permits, would not be affected in a devastating round
of redundancies affecting up to a third of employees.

But yesterday, an immigration officer working for the UK Border Agency revealed
that at least one of its teams, operating in the migrantmagnet Kent ports of
Dover and Folkestone is to be axed.

The whistleblower said the jobs would go in the next three months, adding: "It
sent shock waves through the staff, especially the scale of the job losses.

"The Prime Minister talks about being tough on immigration and protecting the
frontline. But Kent is the frontline and we are set to lose an arrest team. It's
sad because the Kent immigration team is highly effective and delivers great
results, having removed 1,000 illegal workers in the past year."

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said: "Can we believe anything Gordon Brown
says any more? What he says in public and what he does in private are clearly
two very different things. It's a sham." UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage said:
"Weaselly, underhand and dishonest seems to be the basic approach of the
Government to immigration - trumpeting how tough it is whilst hamstringing the
very men and women paid to do the hard job of guarding our borders.

"UKIP would triple the staff of the Border Agency, not cut it."

Reductions in immigration staff will also take place at the UK Border Agency
offices in Croydon, Liverpool, Sheffield and London. The border agency staff in
Folkestone and Dover received an email informing them of the job cuts last
month. It read: "There will be a discrepancy of 15 staff between what we have on
the books and what we can afford."

Last night, the UK Border Agency confirmed there would be job losses in Kent. A
spokesman said: "We are consulting with both unions and staff over the planned
restructuring of our Kent immigration team.

"It is anticipated there will be fewer full-time equivalent positions in Kent,
with some of these positions transferring to Sussex.

"It is not proposed the restructure will result in compulsory job losses."

OPINION: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Immigration officers at crucial port to lose jobs

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 242 words


GORDON Brown's lies on immigration were exposed again yesterday after it emerged
that frontline officers who have arrested 1,000 illegal immigrants in a year are
to be axed.

Immigration chiefs had claimed that vital staff, with powers to arrest those
working without permits, would not be affected in redundancies affecting up to a
third of employees.

But yesterday, an immigration officer at the UK Border Agency revealed that one
team operating in the migrant-magnet Kent ports of Dover and Folkestone is to be
axed. The whistleblower said the jobs would go in the next three months, adding:
"It sent shock waves through the staff, especially the scale of the job losses.

"The Prime Minister talks about being tough and protecting the frontline. But
Kent is the frontline and we are set to lose an arrest team. It's sad because
the Kent team delivers great results, having removed 1,000 illegal workers last
year."

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said: "What Mr Brown says in public and
what he does in private are clearly two different things."

UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Weaselly, underhand and dishonest is the
apparent approach of the Government to immigration - trumpeting how tough it is
while hamstringing those doing this hard job."

Last night, the UK Border Agency confirmed job losses in Kent. A spokesman said:
"We are consulting with both unions and staff over the planned restructuring of
our Kent immigration team."

OPINION: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

Diary: Day and night, the men with guns keep Mr Tony safe. What do they think of
him?

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 654 words


?It's not the biggest advert, but should one get close enough to the opulence
that is the Blair residence in Connaught Square, a stone's throw from Hyde Park,
there is what seems an unkempt, perhaps unloved, Vote Labour poster in the
window. People doubt him these days. But our acquaintance approached the house
the other day to take a closer look. "Just checking that really is a Vote Labour
poster in Tony Blair's window," they explained to the police officer with a
machine gun. "He's got a Vote Conservative poster round the back," said the
copper. The visitor, she laughed. "You think I'm joking?" he said.

?And the rabid media onslaught continues against leader Nick Clegg, with Tory PR
chief Andy Coulson basking in his new position as virtual editor of all the
rightwing papers. But will it work? Some fear it will. It couldn't happen in
America, opined a high-ranking US official at an embassy function the other day.
"The difference between this country and the US is that stupid people still read
here," he said. Smile. It's a compliment. No really.

?More fun and games in Blackburn, where various types are trying to unsettle the
justice secretary, Jack Straw. We've got the high ground and we have got the
celebs, says Bushra Irfan, the antiwar candidate whose journey thus far has seen
her accuse a churchman of assault and who seeks to drain Jack's support in the
Muslim communities. Alas, not as many celebs as she thought. "We confirm that
Amir Khan is not supporting our campaign nor was it ever proposed that he would
attend the event on Sunday 25 April 2010," said yesterday's statement from her.
Jack watches it all. Unshaken. Unstirred.

?Thirty miles away in Fleetwood, there are voters perplexed by the leaflet they
find on the doormat - replicated, for those who seek it, on the admirable
election communication site thestraightchoice. Prominent on the flyer's front
page is a colour photograph of a Native American. "He used to ignore immigration
. . . now he lives on a reservation," is the message from candidate Fred
McGlade. Ukip. Bless.

?And there is good news for Speaker John Bercow, assailed as he is in Buckingham
by impertinents who would challenge him, ignoring all precedent. On Tuesday we
told how both Bercow and the indy John Stevens were claiming backing from the
former Lib Dem leader Charlie Kennedy. So who's it to be, we asked Kennedy
yesterday, as he lurked outside a railway terminus. "Bercow," he said, without
pausing. Stevens and he met but they only had coffee. No endorsement, much less
a hot date.

?When the grizzled ranks of foreign correspondents stop dodging those bullets,
they like to talk about how exciting it was. And the New Yorker tells how a few
came together to exhibit their memorabilia at a recent Overseas Press Club of
America get together in Washington. One brought a miniature navy blue Afghan
burqa; apparently made to protect the chastity of a Barbie doll. Another
recalled his decision to leave behind the Rwandan tourism office T-shirt, which
said: "Genocide! Celebrating 10 years after." There were old-timers there too,
and one produced his 1985 Hanoi foreign ministry lunch menu. Dish of the day:
"Steamed crap and flagrant rice."

?And though it will be the happiest day of their lives, a certain tension must
inevitably surround the grand wedding tomorrow of writer, foodie and telly type
Giles Coren and fellow journalist Esther Walker. When Times subeditors made
changes to his restaurant review, the fiery one famously responded with a
flamethrower of a memo, littered with expletives, searing in its intensity. More
recently, when the Times allowed mild criticism of his writing to seep on to its
website, he wheeled out the heavy munitions again. So we wish Giles (pictured)
and Esther well, but there's obviously a worry. What if there are no-shows or a
misspelling on the invitations. What if the best man forgets the ring?

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 23, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: The debate: John Crace's digested debate

BYLINE: John Crace

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 162 words


Brown: This is not a popularity contest. If it is, I'm dead in the water.

Cameron: I'm a fierce and determined posh boy and I now don't agree with Nick.

Clegg: The Tories' proposed EU reforms will turn everyone into a paedophile.

Cameron: It's better than being a banana republic.

Brown: Look at them arguing, like my boys in the bath . . .

Audience: Stop smiling Gordo. You're scaring us.

Brown: We need to get real and fight Alky Ada.

Cameron: I've done six charity fun runs in Afghanistan and I still want to nuke
China.

Clegg: I am not a man of faith, but I am the Messiah. And to that blonde babe in
the audience, I say: just remember that size does matter.

Cameron: Keith's mum says Gordo is a liar.

Brown: I am going to personally round up 900,000 illegal immigrants and

escort them from the country.

Cameron: Why not just kill them as my black man suggests?

Brown: OK. It is a popularity contest. And I've just lost.

Cameron: That should have taken the Ukip vote.

Clegg: I win again!

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Crash landing for Labour candidate parachuted into Liverpool;
When you're campaigning in Merseyside, it pays to know who Bill Shankly is.
Jonathan Brown goes in search of Luciana Berger

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1338 words


When london-born Luciana Berger was chosen as the Labour candidate to fight the
seat of Liverpool Wavertree three months ago she was tipped as a rising star
with a future ministerial career ahead of her. Unfortunately it was not long
before things started to go horribly wrong.

There had already been rumblings of discontent within the local party at the
imposition of an all-female shortlist for this eminently retainable heartland
seat. Then the Labour leadership in London was accused of "parachuting" in the
28-year-old former student leader and one-time friend of Tony Blair's son Euan.
The retiring Liverpool MP Peter Kilfoyle questioned her political experience,
dubbing her a "student politician".

Asked by the local newspaper to answer four questions on her adopted city, Ms
Berger stumbled, admitting she had never heard of the legendary Liverpool
football manager Bill Shankly, nor did she know who sang "Ferry Across the
Mersey" (Gerry & the Pacemakers), The actor and Liverpool celebrity Ricky
Tomlinson threatened to stand against her after it emerged that during the
candidate selection she had stayed at the house of the outgoing Blairite
incumbent MP, Jane Kennedy. So far, so bad.

The gravest threat to Ms Berger's aspirations came with last week's dramatic
wave of support towards the Liberal Democrats. Even before the leaders'
television debate, Wavertree was down as the Lib Dems' number one target in the
North-west. Labour's majority in Wavertree has shrunk steadily since 1997,
fuelled by a boundary change which puts the Party's notional advantage over the
Liberal Democrats at 3,000 votes. No surprise that Nick Clegg's very first stop
on the electoral trail was to a Penny Lane community centre.

Ms Berger's relations with the media have also soured, and she has shied from
the spotlight. She has been the target of intense journalistic curiosity,
sparked by interest surrounding her connections to the Blairs and her widely
reported gaffes. She was pictured getting out of a car with a personalised
number plate - something unlikely to go down well with her would-be constituents
in one of the country's most deprived areas - and is said to have been chased
around a supermarket "Benny Hill-style" by a Sunday newspaper photographer after
fleeing her constituency office.

But even journalists wanting a serious conversation about politics with Ms
Berger are confronted by a gauntlet of Labour Party-imposed obstacles.

All attempts to contact her this week were rebuffed with the explanation that
she was too busy meeting constituents. Inquiries about her campaigning movements
were ignored. And when she was tracked down to a well-attended hustings meeting
at a church, once again she declined the opportunity to converse with a reporter
face-to-face.

After fielding written questions from voters alongside the other five candidates
she was dramatically ushered out of the building through a side door by a
phalanx of aides, one of whom had helped her into her coat, and into a waiting
car. They drove off into the night.

The manner of her exit prompted amused smiles from the other would-be MPs, who
were still mopping up questions from potential voters. A Labour spokesman
claimed Ms Berger had been "upset" after being approached as she prepared before
the event. He eventually agreed for questions to be put to her on email. But of
the 17 questions sent to her via the Labour North-west regional press office,
asking among other things about her close connections to Ms Kennedy and the
controversy over her selection - as well as a few easy lobs asking for a joke
and for her political hero, only three were answered.

Senior figures within the local party, speaking on condition of anonymity, have
described the running of the campaign as "shambolic". There have been reports of
up to 30 workers turning up to canvass but being left to sit around with nothing
to do. Others are said to have objected to the quality of the material they have
been asked to deliver. Local councillors asked to argue her case fear they are
in danger of being sacrificed to save her.

One traditional Labour voice described the campaign as an example of the "worst
excesses of New Labour". Opponents say that concerns over the quality of the
candidate are now being realised. "They are afraid that if she is allowed a bit
of freedom she will not only make a faux pas but run the risk of boring everyone
to death," the source said.

The man most likely to benefit from Ms Berger's discomfort is the Liberal
Democrat candidate, Colin Eldridge, a city councillor since 2004 who fought the
seat at the last election. The growing rancour between the parties has given the
battle the air of a crucial by-election. And Mr Eldridge has found himself in
controversy when his girlfriend got a job at the council, although he was
cleared of any wrongdoing.

He remains philosophical about the trials of electioneering. "If you stand for
office you should go through the rigours of answering questions from the media
and the public," he said. "Labour are doing their best to smear me but when you
have been around for a long time and helped a lot of people they can see that
you are a genuine person."

During the hustings Ms Berger staked her case on Labour's record in the country
and in the constituency. She said that all the schools in Wavertree had either
been rebuilt or refurbished, that spending on education had doubled and class
sizes had come down.

She fiercely denied negative campaigning. "I was born with a very strong sense
of duty and to help people less fortunate than myself," she eventually wrote in
her emailed response (via a press officer) to the questions. "I want to help the
many rather than the few."

She spoke of her determination to bring new jobs to Wavertree and criticised the
Lib Dem record on housing in the city: "I want to fight Wavertree's corner in
Parliament - be an effective voice, make a difference and be proud of Labour's
achievements in Liverpool."

While the hustings audience were clearly impressed by their close encounter with
democracy, not everyone's mind had been changed. Sheila Sharples, 71, said she
had arrived a Conservative and would go home one. "I thought about voting Lib
Dem but I was a Tory when I was 12," she said. Dan Prior, 37, a potential Lib
Dem voter, said it was better to have a good outside candidate than a poor local
one: "Luciana has shown she has understood the area in the short time she has
been here. She understands the policies and has shown her commitment."

But local businessman Mike Lane, 57, was unconvinced: "She hasn't got a clue
about any of the policies - and she didn't know who Bill Shankly was. Whatever
happened to the working class people? They are parachuting these middle class
people in."

Out in the leafy end of the Wavertree constituency on Allerton Road, there was
little in the way of comfort for Labour. Retired journalist John Hubble, 77,
said he had been involved in socialist politics all his life but was considering
drastic action to register his disgust. "I will probably spoil my paper I feel
so strongly. My wife feels the same. I don't take that decision frivolously. I
know people who have died for democracy and I would as well."

Meanwhile Peter Kilfoyle, who is standing down from the neighbouring seat of
Walton, said the local people were fighting back: "The main parties have lost
their way. They see everything from a Parliamentary and Westminister
perspective. It is all about getting people who will support their views in
Westminister. On the ground there is a different perspective. People on the
ground want their views represented. It is time for some kind of change."

WAVERTREE 2005 RESULT

* LABOUR Jane Kennedy 18,441, 52.4%

* LIB DEMS Colin Eldridge 13,268, 37.7%

* CONSERVATIVE Jason Steen 2,331, 6.6%

* UKIP Mark Bill 660, 1.9%

* SOCIALIST LABOUR Gary Theys 244, 0.7%

* DEMOCRATIC SOCIALIST ALLIANCE Paul Filby 227, 0.6%

Labour majority: 5,173 (adjusted after boundary changes to a notional majority
of 3,038) Turnout: 35,171 (50.8%)

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 23, 2010 Friday 6:15 PM GMT

Are we witnessing the Strange Birth of Liberal Democrat England?

BYLINE: By Tim Collard

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 459 words


During this election campaign, I've yet to hear much about George Dangerfield's
The Strange Death of Liberal England (The Exile blog is one exception). Maybe
it's just that nobody knows history any more, or cares about it. But you'd think
that in 2010 somebody would have remembered that, exactly hundred years ago in
1910, there was an general election - after a period of one-party dominance -
which produced a hung parliament, leading to another election the same year.

Dangerfield's work shows that the Liberal Government, brought in after the 1906
landslide, had failed to align itself with newly emerging political trends. The
Irish Nationalists had long been a thorn in the side of the Westminster
Parliament, and Keir Hardie's Labour Party was getting into its stride too, to
say nothing of the burgeoning suffragette movement. The Liberals and Tories
still dominated the stage and shared 90 per cent of the popular vote. Neither
party, however, could produce a convincing plan for Britain's future.

So the election of January 1910 produced a complete stalemate: the Liberals
polled slightly lower in terms of votes cast, but ended up with one more seat
than the Tories. The Liberal Prime Minister Asquith remained in office, leading
a minority government, and a new election was called to break the deadlock. One
can imagine a similar events in 2010. Then, as now, a radical new alignment in
British politics wasunlikelyto happen in one fell swoop.

But in 2010 a hung parliament, especially one with a strong Liberal Democrat
presence, must be setting pulses racing and eyes revolving at Lib Dem HQ. No
doubt Nick Clegg will be dreaming of future tomes entitled, "The Strange Birth
of Liberal Democrat England" (though Lembit Opik and Charlie Kennedy would no
doubt insist on "Britain" instead). "One more heave" will be their watchword,
and others besides the Lib Dems will hope to establish a bridgehead: UKIP,
especially, will hope to benefit from opposition to a centralised EU, which is
currently catered for by none of the main parties. Everything's up for grabs.

However, to return to 1910, the lessons of history are less than promising. The
second election, in December, produced an almost identical result: this time the
Liberals, while still slightly behind in the popular vote, extended their lead
in terms of seats to just two. Asquith was consequently able to form a
government with the help of the Irish Home Rulers, and parliament sat for eight
years through the First World War. By 1922, the Liberals - as far as
participation in government went - were toast.

So any counting of chickens in the present situation is highly inadvisable. As
the late Alan Clark used to say, using an obvious metaphor, "Anything can happen
at backgammon".

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If you want a real debate, why keep the audience quiet?;
THUNDERER

BYLINE: Victoria Derbyshire

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 456 words


However much you are enjoying the leaders' debates on TV - and I'm one of the
many who watched again last night - there is a better way of doing it.

In the past two weeks I've presented my Radio 5 Live show from around the
country. We brought together a live audience of 200 listeners and a panel of
senior politicians. It was a similar set-up to the TV debates but couldn't have
been more different. In Bromsgrove we debated the expenses scandal, in Luton we
asked listeners which party they trusted on immigration.

TV had 76 rules including the most bizarre - silence from the audience. We had
one: be polite. Why don't the authors of the rulebook trust the people? What do
they think they might do - ask a good follow-up question? We trusted listeners
to behave like intelligent adults and ask sensible questions - and guess what -
they did. They reacted naturally, so, we had applause when Jackie, in
Bromsgrove, said: "I feel as though the politicians have reached into my
handbag, my purse, and taken the money right out of my hand. To have a vote, to
live in a democracy is a privilege and I expect exemplary behaviour from MPs."

We had laughter when UKIP said that it expected illegal immigrants to turn up
voluntarily at their nearest police station to be deported; we even had booing -
of Labour on expenses and of the BNP when a spokesman tried to define "white
indigenous English" ... all of which added to the debate rather than distracted.
They were genuine debates: conversations between voters and those campaigning
for their votes (the audience was balanced to represent all parties fairly).

If you trust the audience you also get those unpredictable, spontaneous moments.
The deputy chairman of the BNP was asked why his party didn't have more support.
He began explaining that taking on the media, the trades unions and the Church
was difficult - at which point, one audience member exclaimed passionately: "The
Church? The Church? As a member of the Church I fundamentally reject the
arrogance, the disruptive presence that the BNP has been in this town in the
last year." It was dramatic, tense and made people turn their radios up. We have
two more radio debates to go, on the economy and on crime and who knows what
will happen? And that's part of the thrill.

It's only year one of the experiment, but everyone can see that the restrictive
format looks crazy. So, broadcasting bosses, spin doctors, leaders, go against
your instincts, rip up the daft rules and at the next election let the audience
behave like human beings ...

Victoria Derbyshire is on Radio 5 Live on weekdays 10am-noon. For highlights of
the Luton debate click http://bit.ly/cjZu41

We trusted listeners to ask sensible questions. Guess what? They did

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clegg's staff funding arrangement 'cost him £700'

BYLINE: Alex Ralph; Suzy Jagger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 520 words


Nick Clegg lost £700 in an unusual financial arrangement where political donors
paid funds directly into the party leader's personal bank account, the Liberal
Democrats said last night.

The party leader raced out details of his financial affairs to end speculation
that he had acted improperly with funds. Mr Clegg published his bank statements
to prove that donations from three businessmen into his account between March
2006 and January 2008 were later disbursed to cover staff costs.

The row over the donations had threatened to overshadow Mr Clegg's performance
at last night's debate. He did not face questions from Gordon Brown or David
Cameron over the allegations.

However, Adam Boulton, the moderator, raised it with Mr Clegg, who said it was
"complete nonsense".

Reports in three newspapers yesterday revealed that Mr Clegg had received a
series of £750 monthly payments from party donors to cover part of the salary of
an additional parliamentary researcher.

The donors were Ian Wright, a senior executive at the drinks company Diageo;
Neil Sherlock, the head of public affairs at the consultancy group KPMG; and
Michael Young, a former gold mining executive.

Mr Clegg's aides refused to name the member of staff who had received payments
but said that the employee started working for the party on January 30, 2006,
when Mr Clegg was the party's home affairs spokesman.

It is thought that throughout the period when Mr Clegg was paid the donations,
the monthly funds covered part of the salaries of two different and consecutive
employees, reflecting the turnover of staff within his office.

According to records filed with the Parliamentary Standards Office, between
January 11 and February 28, 2006, Mr Clegg took on a third member of staff as an
intern. By mid-April, he had recruited Munira Hassam to replace an outgoing
member.

Munira Wilson, as she is now known, is the prospective candidate for Feltham &
Heston, West London. Mrs Wilson left Mr Clegg's office by September 1, leaving
him with two staff for six weeks. It is not clear whether she was the recipient
of the funds.

In addition to the donations, Mr Clegg claimed £90,526 in staffing allowances
for 2006. The donations were used to part-fund the salary, with the rest of the
wages made up through parliamentary allowances.

It is believed that the arrangement was used because the donors were friends of
Mr Clegg and wanted to give funds that could be used by him. Mr Clegg also
thought that it was the easiest means of setting up the payments. The Tories
said that it raised "serious questions". But the Liberal Democrats said that the
stories were a "concerted" smear operation. Lord Mandelson, the Business
Secretary, claimed that it was orchestrated by Conservative spin chiefs - a
suggestion dismissed as "utter nonsense" by the Tories.

Voters in the Conservative seat of Thirsk&Malton, North Yorkshire, must wait
until May 27 to choose their nextMPafter the death of John Boakes, the UKIP
candidate. When a candidate dies after a general election has been called but
before polling day, a special election is triggered after the rest of the
country.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 23, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Clegg effect means voters still turning to his party

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 451 words


David Cameron edged ahead of Nick Clegg after last night's debate but the
Liberal Democrats are still benefiting from their leader's breakthrough
performance last week, according to an immediate Populus online poll for The
Times. In the poll of 1,067 voters who watched the debate, a third said it made
them more likely to vote for the Lib Dems and 4 per cent less likely.

The debate made no net difference for the Tories at 17 per cent more likely and
18 per cent less likely. But 25 per cent said it made them less likely to back
Labour, and only 10 per cent more likely. There is an even split on viewers'
preference for Prime Minister, with the Tory and Lib Dem leaders tied on 37 per
cent, ahead of Labour on 26 per cent.

The poll underlines that Mr Clegg scores for his personal qualities while Mr
Brown is still ahead on the economy, and ties with Mr Cameron on strength. About
76 per cent regard Mr Clegg as likeable, compared with 38 per cent for Mr
Cameron and just 16 per cent for Mr Brown. Mr Clegg is also well ahead on being
in touch with ordinary people, on 61 per cent, against 28 per cent for Mr
Cameron and 24 per cent for Mr Brown.

However, the Tory and Labour leaders are level-pegging at 45 and 46 per cent on
being strong, against 36 per cent for Mr Clegg. Mr Cameron is ahead on having
what it takes to be Prime Minister, on 46 per cent against 43 per cent for Mr
Brown, while the Prime Minister is ahead on knowing how to get the economy going
on 43 per cent, against 35 per cent for the Tory leader. The findings tie in
with those of other polls. But the margins were very narrow so the outcome
amounts to a dead heat between the Tory and Liberal Democrat leaders. Mr Brown
was not far behind either, as he and Mr Cameron sharply improved their
positions.

The Tory camp will be relieved that Mr Cameron was back as joint winner and in a
position to revive his party's campaign. But Mr Clegg's advisers will be pleased
that after this stratospheric rise over the past week, he held his own and was
not squeezed out by the others' improved performances. This may consolidate much
of the Lib Dem advance of the past week.

The other polls ComRes for ITV News: Clegg 33, Cameron 30, Brown 30. YouGov for
The Sun: Cameron 36, Clegg 32, Brown 29. Angus Reid: Clegg 35, Cameron 32, Brown
23. Sky News: Clegg 34, Cameron 34, Brown 30. Guardian ICM: Clegg 33, Cameron
29, Brown 29.

Voters in the Conservative seat of Thirsk &Malton, North Yorkshire, must wait
until May 27 to choose their next MP after the death of John Boakes, the UKIP
candidate. When a candidate dies after a general election has been called but
before polling day, a special election is triggered after the rest of the
country.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

DAILY STAR MINI-FESTOS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 399 words


TWO weeks today the nation goes to the polls to elect a new government - and the
race has not been this close for a generation.

But millions of Brits remain undecided over who to vote for on May 6. So
starting today in our exclusive Mini-festos, the Daily Star is inviting the
parties to bin the spin to tell YOU what THEY will do if elected.

We kick off with their take on the hot topic of benefits and social services.

LABOUR

PEOPLE who work hard should be rewarded, so we are increasing the minimum wage
and promising everyone will be at least £40 a week better off in work than on
benefits. A life on benefits is not an option, so anyone out of work for two
years will be guaranteed a job placement. If they don't take it, they will have
benefits cut.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

NO-ONE will pay tax on the first £10,000 they earn. Taking low-paid workers out
of tax will help to move people off benefits and into work. We will also make
sure the banks we own lend to sound British firms so they can create jobs. The
welfare system must be tailored to individuals rather than treating everyone the
same.

BNP

WE'D make benefits and social housing only available to British citizens. If you
want a council house, the time you've lived in the area would be the deciding
factor. We'd give council tenants the right to buy but use the money to build
more council housing. We'd also put social housing back under local authority
control.

CONSERVATIVES

OUR welfare system is an essential safety net for those who have fallen on hard
times and we will support all those unable to work. For those who can work, and
are desperate to find a new job, we will provide unprecedented help. Those who
can work but turn down a reasonable job offer will have their benefits cut.

UKIP

THERE are more than 70 separate benefits, which is too complicated for most
people and takes an army of civil servants to organise. UKIP will merge them
into one, which would solve the problem of many people not knowing what they are
entitled to. We would let those on less than minimum wage still claim some
benefit.

GREENS

WE want the link between benefits and earnings restored, and a fair deal for
carers - £53.10 for a 35-hour week isn't enough. Increase this by 50% and give
carers cheaper travel and increase social housing stocks. We would help people
into work by creating 350,000 training places and 10,000 more jobs in Sure Start
centres.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

DAILY STAR OF SCOTLAND MINI-FESTOS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 391 words


TWO weeks today the nation goes to the polls to elect a new UK government - and
the race has not been this close for a generation.

But millions remain undecided over who to vote for on May 6. So starting today
in our exclusive Mini-festos, the Daily Star is inviting the parties to bin the
spin to tell YOU what THEY will do if elected.

We kick off with their take on the hot topic of benefits and social services.

LABOUR

WE'LL want to cut the cost of welfare. That means getting people who can work
into jobs, and ending the option of life on benefits.

We'll close the poverty trap by guaranteeing you'll be £40 a week better off in
work. And we'll guarantee that young people who are out of work for six months
get a job or training.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

UNDER the Liberal Democrats no one would pay tax on the first £10,000 they earn.
This would stop 500,000 Scots paying tax altogether.

Taking low-paid workers out of tax will help to move people off benefits and
into work. We will also make sure the banks we own lend to sound British
businesses in order to create jobs.

SNP

OUR MPs will work to narrow the gap between haves and have nots so we can end
child and pensioner poverty. Benefits should be designed to provide incentives
for work, rather than barriers. They should also more closely meet Scottish
needs. We urge changes to cold weather payments to more closely reflect Scottish
needs.

CONSERVATIVES

A TORY Government will ensure everyone who is capable will be given the choice
between return to work programmes or losing benefit. We will ensure people who
claim benefits for two out of three years will be made to work for it, and we
will use outside organisations to help people back to work and pay them by
results.

UKIP

THERE are more than 70 separate benefits, which is too complicated for most
people and takes an army of civil servants to organise. UKIP will merge them
into one, which would solve the problem of many people not knowing what they are
entitled to. We would let those on less than minimum wage still claim some
benefit.

GREENS

A SINGLE pensioner gets less than £100 a week - the Scottish Greens would
increase this to £170.

Taking a job should always be financially worthwhile. As it is, many are left
worse off. We would end means-testing so even part-time jobs always pay. We'd
also stop the privatisation of social services.

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Expenses scandal fires independent challenge;
A NEW FORCE

BYLINE: Martin Evans

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 478 words


SOME of the MPs who made the most questionable expenses claims are facing
competition from a group of independent candidates hoping to pick up votes from
a disillusioned electorate.

A total of 47 independents have announced their intention to stand, with at
least 12 confident of causing an upset.

At a group launch of their campaign yesterday that was hosted by Martin Bell,
the former independent MP, many admitted that their motivation for standing was
anger over the expenses scandal exposed by The Daily Telegraph.

John Bercow, the Speaker, is being challenged in his Buckingham constituency by
John Stevens, a former Conservative MEP who believes that he stands a good
chance of causing an upset because the main parties do not contest the Speaker's
seat.

Four other independent candidates, including the former Ukip leader Nigel
Farage, are contesting the seat. "Mr Bercow is a tarnished candidate," Mr
Stevens said. "Through his behaviour and position he has become symbolic of all
that is wrong with the system."

Stewart Jackson, the Conservative MP for Peterborough who claimed expenses to
have his swimming pool refurbished, is being challenged by John Swallow, a local
bus driver who said his job had made him realise how angry people were over the
expenses scandal. "I'd still go back to my job, if they'll have me, two weeks of
the year and donate my wages to charity, because it's important to stay in
touch," he said.

All the candidates have signed a code of conduct promising they will not abuse
their power. They have been endorsed by the Independent Network, an umbrella
group for independent parliamentary candidates endorsed by Mr Bell, who served
as the independent MP for Tatton from 1997 to 2001 after defeating Neil
Hamilton, the sitting Tory MP.

"Independents have an unprecedented opportunity to change the face of politics
for good," said Mr Bell. "The issue of public trust in our elected
representatives following the expenses scandal has been key in persuading a
number of people to put their names forward. They will be answerable not to a
political party but only to their constituents."

Battlefields Leading challengers

A total of 47 independent candidates have signed up to Martin Bell's code of
conduct. Here are some of the notable contests: Martin James Houlden seeks seat
vacated by Michael Ancram in Devizes Peter Thirwall challenges Denis MacShane in
Rotherham Suzanne Moore challenges Diane Abbott in Hackney North and Stoke
Newington Khizar Iqbal challenges Shahid Malik in Dewsbury Leigh Higgins
challenges Alan Duncan in Rutland and Melton Marianne Overton seeks seat vacated
by Douglas Hogg in Sleaford and North Hykeham Siamak Kaikavoosi challenges David
Miliband in South Shields Bushra Irfan challenges Jack Straw in Blackburn Sarah
Flannery challenges George Osborne in Tatton Paul Swansborough challenges Jacqui
Smith in Redditch

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Martin Bell at the launch of the independents' campaign
EDDIE MULHOLLAND

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ban the burkha, orders Sarkozy

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 182 words


FRANCE is on the verge of banning the burkha.

President Nicolas Sarkozy yesterday ordered politicians to draw up legislation
to outlaw the veils in public, saying they "threaten the dignity of women".

The Muslim burkha is a full-body covering with a mesh over the face, and the
niqab is a full veil with a slit for the eyes.

A bill to ban them will go before the French parliament in weeks. The country is
following Belgium, which votes today on whether to impose jail terms and fines
if women wear burkhas or the niqab in public.

Switzerland and Italy also want to outlaw the veils.

Mr Sarkozy has long disliked the "oppressive" clothing.

But the move could bring him into direct conflict with France's estimated five
million Muslims, the biggest single Islamic community in western Europe.

In Britain, none of the main political parties support a ban.

But last night the UKIP called for one. Its leader Lord Pearson said: "The veil
does not help social interaction, it hinders it."

The Muslim Council of Britain has expressed its concern at what it describes as
the growth of Islamophobia in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In the line of fire...face veils

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday

Hampstead and Kilburn: a hustings report from top London blog West Hamsptead
Life

BYLINE: Dave Hillguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 116 words

ABSTRACT

Dave Hill: A Top London Blogger reports on Glenda Jackson and others at a
hustings in Hampstead

FULL TEXT

The Lib Dems must be Cleggtastically confident of depriving Labour's  of this ,
where they finished a very close second in 2005. West Hampstead library was the
setting for a hustings that included the orange contender , Jackson,
Conservative Chris Philp, the very illustrious  representing , environmentalist
and hyperlocalist (is that fair?) Tamsin Omond of  and , who apparently believes
that a trail of evil can be tracked back to Europe. Well, that's what a  says .

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday

Guardian's climate debate shows green politics has grown up

BYLINE: George Monbiotguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 602 words

ABSTRACT

George Monbiot: Greg Clark, Ed Miliband, Simon Hughes could all have been
fronting a Friends of the Earth campaign from a few years ago

FULL TEXT

Here's something I didn't expect to write: I found all three of the politicians
at  quite impressive. I was struck by the maturity of their debate, in two
senses. They tried to answer the questions they were given, rarely sought to fob
us off and mostly refrained from cheap point-scoring.

And they all had the kind of detailed knowledge of green issues that just a few
years ago would have been perceived as superfluous to a political career. The
bumbling amateurs of yesteryear have been replaced by serious-minded geeks.

, the Conservative candidate, did better than I expected, but he still trailed
behind the other two. His closing statement was particularly unpersuasive:
having engaged with specific policy issues during the rest of the discussion, he
reverted to sweeping, paternalistic assurances.

But throughout the debate I was reminded of how much worse it could have been.
Clark was repeatedly forced to defend himself against charges that the shadow
cabinet and the party membership are stuffed with climate change deniers. That
the Tory leadership has so far held the line against the party's own
Neanderthals is a minor miracle, not least because the  and the lemonade springs
where the bluebird sings in the Big Rock Candy Mountains. For how much longer
will this last? At what point will the party abandon the science to appease its
members?

For now, at least, the three big parties are seeking to outgreen each other. Any
one of them could have been fronting a Friends of the Earth campaign from a few
years ago. The issues that were once marginal or excluded have gone mainstream.

They attacked each other for not doing enough to restrain airport expansion: not
long ago they would have attacked each other for not doing enough to promote it.
They all defended climate science and made unequivocal statements about the
overriding importance of dealing with climate change. They clashed not over the
problem but over which solutions should be deployed: nuclear power sharply
divided  (the Lib Dem candidate) from his opponents;  and Greg Clark tussled
over whether windfarms should be approved locally or by central government, but
not over whether they are a good thing; they argued over who was being most
generous in allocating adaptation funds to poorer countries and about which of
them was most committed to the . It's a shame that , leader of Greens, couldn't
make it: she might have made life harder for the others.

The real differences in style and competence became clear to me after the
debate, when I put the three candidates on the spot about : their determination
to maximise the production of fossil fuels, even as they seek to minimise
consumption. Ed Miliband was clever, well-briefed and deft at fending me off,
though rather annoying, not least because he kept clamping his hand on my
shoulder (perhaps he was attempting a citizen's arrest). Simon Hughes was
affable and engaging, but couldn't quite dispose of the issue. Greg Clark
floundered around hopelessly and seemed unable to answer my questions.

But I came away feeling more cheerful than I was when I arrived. Green politics
has grown up; the debate has changed beyond recognition. We are still far from
where we need to be, but we're no longer speaking in different tongues.


LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 22, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

And a big welcome to David, Nick... and The Other Guy

BYLINE: BILL Leckie

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 823 words


TAKE the phone off the hook, get the custard creams out and prepare to suspend
all sense of disbelief.

Because it's time for Live Election Debate No2.

And this time, it's in HD. If you weren't already aware, that means High
Definition. Unless, of course, you're Gordon Brown.

In which case it stands for Humongous Desperation.

Now, we all know that when we see the PM, Citizen Dave and the Cleggmeister on
Sky tonight, what they say will generally differ from what they mean.

For instance, when they tell presenter Adam Boulton they're really glad to have
been asked a question, they'll actually be thinking: "Damn you to hell for
putting me on the spot!" Glorious When they pledge to deliver a fairer society,
they're praying no one tumbles they're about to bring back hanging and slavery.

And, of course, when they say it's dark outside, millions will instantly open
the curtains to check.

However, this week Broon took double-talk to glorious new levels when he told
how that in the event of a hung Parliament he wants to hook up with the Lib Dems
to form "a progressive alliance".

Because there are as-yet-undiscovered tribes in the Amazon Basin who know what
he REALLY meant was: "Please please PLEASE don't sack me! I'll do anything! I'll
sook up to anyone!

I'll form a coalition with Pol Pot and Noel Edmonds if it keeps me in No10!" For
a man who prides himself on his dignity, it was sad indeed to see him cling to
his last shreds of power like a tramp guarding a bottle of meths.

Even the Lib Dems called him desperate - and they spend every minute of every
General Election campaign DREAMING they'll get to ride to the rescue of a
minority government.

Just shows how far the Labour Party have sunk.

It was bad enough when they lost Holyrood to the Nats; a true testament to
arrogance and complacency, that - payback for packing their brightest stars off
to London and leaving the reserve team to run the show.

For them not only to be trailing an ultra-lightweight Tory mob in every national
opinion poll, though, but to be THIRD behind Clegg's lot? It's downright
embarrassing. Particularly when Clegg then comes out and dismisses Brown as
someone his party wouldn't want to do business with.

"He has systematically blocked political reform," says the new kidder on the
block, before adding: "Do I think Labour delivered fairness? No.

"Do I think the Labour Party has faith in civil liberties? No. Do I think
they've delivered? No. They are clutching at straws."

And for once, here was a politician telling it like it is.

A week ago, I previewed the first live telly debate as a contest between Brown,
Cameron and The Other One.

Today, the bitter truth is that Britain will tune in to see Cameron take on
Clegg - with BROWN now cast as The Other One.

Yet, as this paper pointed out yesterday, our voting system means Labour could
pull a smaller percentage than the Tories or the Libs, but still end up with
more seats.

However, there's no chance of them winning a majority, not unless Citizen Dave
and the Cleggmeister choose tonight to announce a three-way alliance with
al-Qaeda before launching into a ten-minute bout of French kissing.

Which means they're going to need to reel in support from the minority parties
to retain even a semblance of control in Westminster. And if the Lib Dems sling
a rubber ear, where does that leave them? The Nats are unlikely to win many more
than their existing seven seats. And even then, Wee Eck's spent so long slagging
Labour off that he'd look the biggest hypocrite on the planet if he cosies up to
them.

Which leaves who - Plaid Cymru? One of the Ulster parties? UKIP, the BNP, the
Monster Raving Loonies? It's a cringeworthy situation for Brown and his buddies
to be in.

But worse, it's a nightmare scenario for a country in urgent need of clear and
concise leadership to steer us through dreadfully troubled times.

I still don't see one single party who can provide that leadership.

Labour are a busted flush, their principles scattered to the four winds and most
of their policies viewed as miserable failures.

The Tories? Quite simply, I don't trust them to deliver on all their new
nice-guy promises.

Belief And as for Clegg and Co ... well, they've probably even surprised
themselves that a manifesto put together in the belief that they'd never have to
put any of it into practice is being taken seriously.

Put it altogether and it's hard to see anything else being salvaged from the
wreckage from May 7 but an unwieldy, uncomfortable, unworkable marriage made in
hell.

Clegg might relent and work with Brown after all.

Cameron might swallow his own beliefs and use Clegg to get him the keys to No10.

The Nats or the Welsh or the Northern Irish or all three might make themselves
feel important by shoring up one of the big two.

In fact, right now just about anything seems possible.

Well, except maybe a coalition of Labour and the Tories.

Then again, after how Gordon Brown's behaved this week, don't rule it out.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 21, 2010 Wednesday

ABANDONED TO THEIR FATE ... BUT A LUCKY FEW COME SAILING HOME

BYLINE: BY VANESSA ALLEN AND DAVID WILLIAMS

LENGTH: 765 words


AS ALL UK AIRPORTS FINALLY REOPEN, MINISTER TELLS 120,000 BRITONS STILL STRANDED
ABROAD: RELY ON THE GREAT BRITISH SPIRIT

FAMILIES stranded in the volcano crisis last night told how they had been
'utterly abandoned' by ministers and left at the mercy of greedy airlines,
hotels and banks.

The decision to lift the ban on flights in and out of Britain from 10pm
yesterday offered little respite for 120,000 Britons still unsure how and when
they will get home.

As those trapped abroad struggled with dwindling finances and a dearth of
information, David Miliband declared it was up to them to force airlines to foot
the bill as they wait for flights.

Instead of ordering companies to fulfill their legal obligations, the Foreign
Secretary suggested travellers should simply rely on the 'great British spirit'.

Last night's decision to lift the no-fly zone over Britain came after British
Airways sent 26 planes towards London airports without permission to land in
defiance of the flying ban.

Mr Miliband's comments enraged the Tories who last night demanded ' leadership'
to end the crisis.

In other developments, two Royal Navy warships ñ HMS Ark Royal and HMS Ocean ñ
circled uselessly in the Channel despite Gordon Brown's declaration they would
be used to bring Britons home.

-- German aircraft were cleared to fly over London as Heathrow, Gatwick and
Stansted all remained closed until at least 1am today;

-- Airlines formally asked the European Union to be relieved of its legal
obligation to pay for passengers' expenses after cancelled flights;

-- Chaotic scenes broke out in Madrid as 100 coaches promised to passengers had
still to leave for the UK.

Desperate holidaymakers told how their money had run out after hotels, car hire
firms and airlines quadrupled charges.

They accused banks of refusing to provide emergency overdrafts to allow them to
cover basic needs. And ministers yesterday told passengers to make their way to
the Channel ports in France ñ but many cannot afford hugely inflated car hire
fees of up to £3,000.

Mr Miliband placed the burden squarely on passengers.

He said: 'Your airline has a responsibility to make sure you're provided with
accommodation and food ñ that is a requirement. It's very, very important that
people enforce their rights.'

Asked how he would feel if he was trapped, he replied: 'I'd be tearing my hair
out, obviously, like everyone elseÖ that great British spirit I hope would come
through.

'It's sod's law, isn't it, that these things always happen at the most difficult
times when most people are abroad.' London Mayor Boris Johnson said he was
worried the shutdown could go on 'indefinitely' and former Ukip leader Nigel
Farage lashed out at the ' needless' grounding of flights.

Ministers have still has not said where ñ or even when ñ its two Navy warships
in the Channel will begin a Dunkirk-style evacuation.

The Navy's flagship, aircraft carrier HMS Ark Royal, and the fleet carrier HMS
Ocean were left sitting in the English Channel.

Thousands of Britons remained trapped in Spain, where HMS Albion collected
several hundred people from Santander. But rather than send more ships said it
would send coaches to ferry them to France.

Insiders said naval vessels could be sent into action as early as this morning
but senior Conservatives said the plan had descended into a 'big fat mess'.

Transport spokesman Theresa Villiers said: 'The Prime Minister said there were
buses in Madrid, now the Foreign Secretary said they are working on a schedule.

'The Prime Minister announced three Royal Navy ships were to be made available
for action, the MoD tells us two of them are standing idly by "poised and ready
for tasking if directed".

'Britons trapped abroad want leadership from the British Government and to know
that there is a clear and properly thought through rescue plan.

For many, frustration turned to desperation as dwindling funds left families
faced with sleeping in airports or relying on charity.

Mother Gemma Bolton said her family had spent more than £5,000 while they waited
for flights home from Egypt.

The mother, stranded with her four-year-old son and fourmonthold baby, said: 'We
feel utterly abandoned by our airline and our country. It's a really stressful
and desperate situation.'

Vet Trevor Munro said his bank, Halifax, had refused to give him an emergency
overdraft to allow him to pay for hotel rooms for his family while they were
stranded in Crete. A Halifax spokesman said they could not provide an overdraft
for the family because their account had no credit facility and said it would be
illegal under the Consumer Credit Act.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 21, 2010 Wednesday

Diary: They know everything. And forgive nothing. Don't mess with David
Cameron's Tories

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 634 words


?Gloves off in marginal Central Croydon, where there is a WWF-style rumble
between Andrew Pelling - once a Tory MP, once very publicly arrested by the Met
for alleged assault - and a David Cameron determined to make sure the electorate
is aware of his colourful past. "In September 2007, Andrew's second wife made
some serious accusations against him and he was arrested and released on bail,"
says the mailshot from Cameron. "We suspended him while the police investigated
the matter." A new candidate was selected, says Dave, after which the police
decided "not to press charges" against Pelling. "We offered to reinstate him
once he had fully resumed his duties. Regrettably he chose not to accept that
offer." And so it is war in suburban south London. "Voting for Andrew will
simply split the anti-Labour vote," warns Cameron, whose local followers had
already raised the tone by issuing a seven-page briefing referring to Pelling's
acknowledged past difficulty with depression. For truth will out in the new
politics. Nothing will be forgotten. Be warned.

?And there's a tough decision to make in Buckingham, where Speaker John Bercow
faces the indignity of having to fight to keep his seat. A bare-knuckle fight
there, too, with combatants Ukip, a host of independents, and a grizzly from the
BNP. So tight in fact that both the Speaker and John Stevens, the former Tory
MEP who would unseat him, are locked in a strange and unseemly struggle for the
endorsement of that cheeky chappie, man of the people, Charles Kennedy. Stevens,
once a Lib Dem, claims to have won the backing of the former Lib Dem leader
during a meeting the pair had at the House of Commons on 17 March. Bercow
counters with a colourful leaflet picture of Charles Kennedy and a quote from
him. "At a time when the reputation of parliament is at a low ebb, John Bercow
has taken on the job of Speaker and pushed ahead with overdue reform," it says.
"He has shown that he can work with people of all parties and none to achieve
greater openness and to make sure MPs serve the people who elect them." If only
Charlie carried as much weight with the Lib Dems.

?Why oh "why can't Dave and Gordon learn a few lessons from Britain's most
gloriously un-PC supermayor", asked the Daily Mail last August? "The
counter-revolution has begun," said the Telegraph."What's not to like?" "He's
Don us proud," was the verdict from JeremyClarkson in the Sun. And what, having
looked closely at the mess that is municipal government in Doncaster, does the
Audit Commission now say of the authority and our friend, the rightwing English
Democrat mayor Peter Davies. "Those leading the council - the mayor and cabinet,
some councillors and some officers - do not collectively have the capacity or
capability to make the necessary improvements in governance," is one of the
watchdog's conclusion. "The mayor does not always act in a way which
demonstrates an understanding of the need for an elected mayor to lead his
authority and represent all the people in Doncaster." There's another. Oh dear!

?Disappointment on stilts for the mouthy rocker Joan Jett, who was an honoured
guest at New York's Dressed to Kilt show, staged by Sean Connery's Friends of
Scotland group. Jett arrived confident of seeing kilts worn with traditional
abandon. It didn't happen. "I didn't see anything. I heard all these amazing
rumours about balls flying," she told New York magazine. "It was all I could
talk about all day. That was what everybody was telling me. I came for the
balls!". Poor Joan (pictured). Hopes dashed. Illusions shattered.

?And finally, to whomever placed that poster calling for William Hague's
re-election in north Yorkshire next to the colourful sign that cautions "Beware
of the bull". Naughty step please. You know where it is.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 21, 2010 Wednesday

Campaign 2010: My election: 'You are sitting in Sangin ... the last thing you
want to do is vote': We asked our writers what issue they felt most passionate
about. Today, as the party leaders prepare to debate foreign policy on TV,
Audrey Gillan gauges the mood among troops returning from the Afghan front

BYLINE: Audrey Gillan

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1946 words


A child's motorised car lies discarded in the quiet cul-de-sac and some of the
identical uPVC doors of the red-brick, semi-detached houses have been left wide
open to let in the air of a spring day.

The gentle sunshine brings with it light relief from more than the winter
weather. It coincides with the end of a six-month tour of Afghanistan for 3
Rifles Battle Group, a brutal deployment that took an unrelenting toll on the
soldiers as well as their families left here at home.

Finally, the families can let go of the nauseating fear of the knock at the door
that has haunted this forces estate in the Edinburgh suburb of Colinton known as
"the Patch". Now, the women are mowing the lawn, painting kitchens, organising
for the return to Edinburgh of the last members of the regiment

In these last six months, the 3 Rifles Battle Group - including attached units
from other regiments - has sustained the biggest losses of any battle group in
the nine years the British army has been in Afghanistan: 30 dead and an as-yet
undisclosed number seriously injured.

The tally of dead includes soldiers from other attached units including the bomb
disposal expert Staff Sergeant Olaf Schmid, who was posthumously awarded the
George Cross for bravery.

As the regiment's commanding officer, Lieutenant Colonel Nick Kitson, wrote in a
blog from Helmand at the beginning of this month: "It has been a long, hard
winter for the soldiers of this battle group."

The Patch is two miles from the city centre, lying in the shadow of the Pentland
hills, and at the heart of the chancellor Alistair Darling's Edinburgh South
West constituency, where he is defending a majority of over 7,000.

The Patch is located there because the area is home to the imposing Edwardian
edifices that are Redford and Dreghorn barracks, making the Colinton area one of
the largest garrisons in the country.

There is great support for the soldiers here, shown by the more than £4,000
raised in the Colinton post office by selling green rubber wrist bands that bear
the regiment's motto - Swift and Bold. The proceeds have been helping to support
the families of those who have been killed and injured.

The returning soldiers of 3 Rifles have been making their way home in recent
weeks. Some were among troops being evacuated by HMS Albion from Santander in
northern Spain yesterday having left Afghanistan via Cyprus.

Arriving home they will see the signs that they have been missed and are greatly
admired.

But they will have heard little up till now in the election campaign to make
them feel that their vote is being courted. Many will be too tired and too
relieved to be home to care.

Most soldiers do not linger long over the high penalty being paid in terms of
lives and limbs lost in Afghanistan. This, they say, comes with the job. But
they have other concerns. Because soldiers, according to the MoD, are officially
"apolitical" the Guardian, in seeking their views, has had to speak to them
anonymously, disguising their regiments and ranks. As one officer put it: "We
are not a political organisation, we serve the Queen and her elected servants,
whatever flavour they may be."

Afghanistan has been mentioned only lightly so far in the election campaign,
though it is anticipated that this will change tomorrow night, with the conflict
likely to become a focus of the second leaders' debate.

One senior non-commissioned officer said: "I am waiting to see what they say in
the debate on Thursday night, though I am not holding my breath. In the end it
doesn't really matter who we work for."

But one sergeant stood out from the rest in expressing a view about tactics,
saying the government had no mission statement on Afghanistan. "Brown said this
country needs leadership. I nearly choked. The army needs leadership and clear
direction from the government on the war in Afghanistan. We need to know what is
success over there because we're far from it now. The Yanks are taking over
Helmand - that's pretty much strategic failure just like Basra."

Most soldiers gripe about other things: pay, frequent operational tours, family
and welfare concerns. One said: "We got a 2% rise which, by the time they put up
the cost of food and accommodation, you don't even notice it. And some of the
accommodation we have to pay for is a disgrace - it's not fit to live in."

Not all soldiers live in nice little houses like those on the Patch, and many
single soldiers live in barracks that are crumbling.

One sergeant major, who has been in the army for almost all of his adult life,
said: "What I am not happy about is the state of the quarters and the way some
of my lads are living. We have got boys who are living in condemned blocks.

"The reason a lot of our soldiers will vote Conservative is because when the
Labour party was in power they built only 80% of the accommodation that was
required, so 20% live in accommodation with windows that don't fit and showers
that get blocked up with sewage."

How will these concerns translate into votes? The data that exists is patchy and
anecdotal. According to one recent poll on the unofficial website the Army
Rumour Service (arrse.co.uk), 50% of respondents - only 147 replied - said they
would vote Conservative, with 11% favouring the BNP, Ukip 9%, and Lib Dems 8%.
Labour trailed at 3%. There is no way of knowing if any of these are serving
soldiers. Many young soldiers simply don't give a monkey's about politics,
another sergeant major said. "It's the older ones, aged 30 plus, that start to
voice the odd opinion or two about politicians and political issues. It's
probably fair to say that most soldiers and officers have no regard for Gordon
Brown and little time for the Labour party, which is odd, as the majority of the
armed forces seem to come from the lower to middle classes.

"But most seem to hate having to shake hands with Gordon Brown on his many
photocall missions to Afghanistan or hang around in the background to make him
look like a man of the people. On the other hand David Cameron and the
Conservative party are looked on with a mixture of wariness and contempt."

But one large constituency in the army are seen as natural Tory voters: the
officers. A major, who describes himself as "true blue", told me that the
government had to provide soldiers with the resources - kit, weapons,
accommodation and finance - that they need to do the job. He said: "Make us lean
and efficient, but don't cut our legs off to do it. The main parties have both
taken chunks out of the armed forces, but I feel that the Conservatives have
done that less. At least when it goes noisy, they throw their weight behind the
boys.

"A lot of us feel that Labour saw the army as an institution of elites that
needed to be pruned and kept in check. The issues over finance and the fact that
the prime minister actually cut our budget in real terms says a lot. However, to
be fair, kit is now getting through and we are becoming far better equipped."

Peter Felstead, editor of Jane's Defence Weekly, points out that issues with kit
are a diversion. "The opposition parties are trying to make much of shortages of
protected vehicles, body armour, helicopters, etc in theatre, but in my mind the
MoD in conjunction with the government didn't do a bad job with that," he said.

"Sure they could have bought all this equipment - at great expense - some years
ago on the premise that it might be needed in theatre, but imagine the outcry if
it had turned out that such equipment wasn't required after all. We'd have had
all kinds of headlines about the government wasting funding that could have been
spent on education and health instead of 'toys for the boys'."

Another sergeant major said that even the problem with the shortage of
helicopters could not be laid fully at Labour's door. "The helicopters issue has
been ongoing since the Tories were in power," he said.

" Those helicopters have been out of commission longer than the Labour party
have been in. I went to war in the Falklands with a Chinook and those same
Chinooks are in service now. If the Tories use the helicopters as ammunition
against Labour then that's naughty.

"I don't mind Gordon Brown, even though he did lie to the Chilcot inquiry. But I
just remember when I was in Afghanistan and I ran out of ammo. From a soldier's
point of view, I was short of ammo and I put it down to them, the government. I
only see it from the pointed end of the stick. That day when I needed ammo I
didn't have it."

With the Conservatives making much of their recruitment of the former chief of
the general staff, Sir Richard Dannatt, many soldiers are attracted to the idea
of their recent leader becoming defence secretary. Not least because most think
that Labour's Bob Ainsworth, the current incumbent, is "bottom third".

One soldier, a corporal, said: "You get three grades in the army - top third,
middle third and bottom third. Bob Ainsworth is bottom third at best. Gordon
Brown stands there bumping his gums about the military and how he respects and
admires us - well, he clearly doesn't that much with his appointment of
Ainsworth."

An officer took another tack on a similar theme: "The Labour government has
played politics with the armed forces. The effective enforced retirement of
Dannatt proved their contempt. He was the right man for the job of chief of the
general staff."

As a "working-class man", the sergeant major said he was a natural Labour voter,
but right now he just doesn't know how he will vote, if he votes at all. "I have
got to register. I might vote. It's important to vote ,but I don't think I can
be arsed.

"Soldiers are working-class guys and my working-class family upbringing makes me
think that it's wrong to vote Tory. If Labour is bent now, then the
Conservatives were twice as bent."

It is soldiers like this that Douglas Young, chair of the British Armed Forces
Federation, has been urging to register and then vote. "Among all regular
service personnel and their partners, most surveys suggest that the proportion
who are registered to vote is (around) 60%, compared to an overall national
percentage more like 90%. The worst statistic I recall was 36% registered in
2005 amongst service personnel overseas, a figure which has improved since
(then) as a result of all our efforts, but is still far too low," he said.

Anxious to avoid a scenario in which thousands fighting for democracy in
Afghanistan are effectively disenfranchised back home, an MoD spokesman said:
"We have had successful campaigns getting service voters to register and we are
working closely with the Ministry of Justice to make suitable provisions for
service personnel in Afghanistan, including fast-tracking postal voting forms.

"However, due to operational priorities, no plan we can put in place will be
infallible, but personnel still have the option of voting by proxy."

But our sergeant major was brutally honest. "You are sitting in Sangin or
Nowzad, and you're exhausted, you just want to have a brew and sleep. The last
thing you want to do is vote."

Back in Colinton, an army wife was standing at the bus stop, waiting to head
into town to have a "huge relief" drink with friends. "It's wrong to think that
soldiers don't want to go to Afghanistan. They take that in their stride - if
they die there, they die a hero," she said.

"But when they are still alive they want to be treated well for the job that
they do. I don't vote myself, but if soldiers vote, they'll vote for the party
they think treats them with respect."

Captions:

Flying visit

Prime minister Gordon Brown on a visit to Afghanistan last month. Many soldiers,
especially younger ones, feel apathy towards the three main political parties

Photograph: Carl De Souza

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 21, 2010 Wednesday

General election 2010: Clegg success upsets applecarts ... and the Mail

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 827 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: After a week in which the Liberal Democrats have surged in the
polls, the Mail turns its guns on the party's leader

FULL TEXT

Any election campaign that upsets applecarts, wrongfoots Rupert Murdoch and
sends the Mail into a sulk can't be all bad and, whether or not it lasts, the
Nick Clegg for King surge since last week has done all three.

The media outlet to watch most carefully, as ever, is the Mail. That's because
its brutality is more efficient and it's read by media executives in Fleet
Street and the BBC who are too busy to read longer words.

On the old "build 'em up, knock 'em down", the Mail turns on Clegg big time
today.

Less certain in their instincts, the Tories are more predictably at odds when it
comes to how best to deal with the upstart. Kick him to bits, says David
Cameron's Tebbit-Mail axis. No, that's the last thing we must do, says the
Tories' would-be "new politics" faction.

They Tebbit-Mail axis is right, of course: let the Mail kick him to bits. That's
a fine old Tory tradition, dating back to the forged Zinoviev Letter which
finished off the first Labour government in 1924. .

Gordon Brown faces similarly parallel advice. The Blairite Peter Mandelson
snuggles up to the Lib Dems - it comes naturally to him.

Meanwhile, Ed Balls, who seems to have become as much a pantomime villain for
rival parties as Mandelson once was, warns against coalition. That figures, too,
doesn't it?

For his part, Clegg  that Brown is a grumpy old has-been with whom he wouldn't
dream of any political intimacy in the back row of the Odeon. "Keep your hands
off my ha'penny, you dirty old man," is his watchword.

As Martin Kettle notes , Brown persists in the courtship because Clegg
represents his last slender chance of hanging on as he trails in the polls.

As for the media, Murdoch's glove puppet, the Sun, was emboldened to dump Brown
- unkindly, just before last September's party conference - in favour of
Cameron.

I keep pointing out that Rupe's principled policy is always to be on the winning
side, a commie in Beijing, a whatever in Canberra, London and Washington.

Since old Etonian Dave is not his kind of Pom, he can't have been keen and may
end up looking like a prat (pause for laughter and applause). Heads will roll if
he does, but that's not our problem here.

The Mail, as ever, is more to the point. It runs an interesting series of
attacks on Clegg today, including a  focusing on the cruel expenses question
Andrew Neil threw at him, which I discussed in .

There's also a pretty brisk assault on the under-reported bits of Clegg's CV
when he was working as a lobbyist for firms with some unsavoury clients -
Gaddaffy, Putin, Gazprom.

That's fair game, too. It does not make Clegg a bad person, or the lobbying
firms he worked for bad people. It just reminds people who want "new politics"
that the new variety is more like old variety than it is sensible to pretend.

Allegra Stratton's  as a child of privilege is also a useful reality check.

Where the Mail loses its rag completely is in a  denouncing the prospect of the
country "sleepwalking into the politics of paralysis and chicanery under a
voting system that will make Britain's government as corrupt and inept as
Berlusconi's Italy."

In other words, the Mail wants a clearcut victory for Labour or the Tories and
none of the uncertainty of a hung parliament.

We can guess which, but the Mail's editor, Paul Dacre, has a puritan's soft spot
for Brown and is none too keen on Dave. The Tory leader must now "find the
language and the courage" to expose Clegg's policies, the paper says.

I happen to share many of the Mail's doubts about the merits of a hung
parliament. But the awkward fact is that many voters are highly disaffected with
the two-party status quo and were drifting away to smaller parties long before
the Iraq war, the recession or the MPs' expenses affair.

If they want a hung parliament and a reformed voting system reflecting their new
priorities and prejudices, who am I - or the Mail - to stand in their way?

A parliament with Green, Ukip and BNP MPs will certainly be different. Who
knows, it might be an improvement.

Meanwhile, I was touched to see Cleggy grasp at an  in which a clump of retired
generals urge a serious rethink on Trident with other, cheaper, nuclear options
in the frame.

Good stuff, and I agree with that, too. But soldiers urging that less money be
spent on the navy's nuclear toys is hardly surprising. The army currently does
most of the hard work and wants most of the shrinking budget.

It's so predictable, in fact, that it's a bit like Lib Dems calling for
electoral reform because they think it would benefit their cause (which it might
not in the long run). But don't fret, the new politics has important old
features which can't be bettered. They include self-interest.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 21, 2010 Wednesday 8:21 PM GMT

The Lib Dems have NOT promised an In/Out referendum

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 461 words


What their manifesto actually says is that there would be such a referendum "the
next time a British government signs up for fundamental change in the
relationship between the UK and the EU."

This is very different from the straightforward In/Out referendum they promised
after U-turning on their previous referendum promise. Nick Clegg's calculation
is that there won't be a major EU treaty in the next three or four years. And if
there is, he'll claim that it doesn't amount to a "fundamental change in the
relationship between the UK and the EU".

After all, the Lib Dems have form here. In 2005, they were elected on the basis
of a far less equivocal manifesto commitment:

"We are therefore clear in our support for the [European] Constitution, which we
believe is in Britain's interest - but ratification must be subject to a
referendum of the British people."

By the time the European Constitution Lisbon Treaty came before Parliament, it
was obvious that keeping this promise would jeopardise ratification. The peoples
of France and the Netherlands had voted "No", and the people of Britain were
straining like greyhounds in the slips to do the same.

So Cleggie went back on his word, and ordered his MPs to abstain on the critical
vote. The amendment was defeated in the House of Commons by 63 votes - precisely
the number of Lib Dem MPs. In the House of Lords, however, an abstention
wouldn't have been enough, so Clegg adopted his third position in as many weeks
and instructed his peers to vote against the referendum he had promised.

Seeking to justify these U-turns, Nick Clegg snatched up a - I was going to say
"a fig-leaf", but it was more of a shrivelled strawberry-leaf. What he wanted,
he said, was a vote on EU membership, not the paltry referendum he had promised
before. He told the Today Programme:

"The positional we took was that the referendum, which we wanted to see take
place, was a referendum on the big question about Europe, which is whether we
stay in or out. What we disagreed with, as the party, was the Conservative
proposal to have a referendum, a very narrow referendum, only on this Lisbon
Treaty."

Alright, it's hardly Cicero, but you get the point. Instead of a referendum on
Lisbon, the Lib Dems would give us a vote on whether to remain in the EU. So a
couple of weeks later, the UKIP peer, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, took them at
their word and introduced precisely such a proposal in the Lords. Did the Lib
Dems support it? Of course not. "We didn't want to give succour to UKIP," one of
their peers later explained.

And these Euro-fanatical shysters now have the gall come back to us with the
same promise of a referendum that they have already broken? "Fool me once, shame
on you," as they say in Ireland. "Fool me twice, shame on me".

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 21, 2010 Wednesday 6:43 PM GMT

UKIP's manifesto moment

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 30 words


On Monday night I was on Jon Sopel's Campaign Show when he filleted Lord Pearson
of Rannoch. UKIP's leader didn't seem to know much about his party's manifesto.
Judge for yourself.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 21, 2010 Wednesday 4:44 PM GMT

If Nick Clegg beefs up his EU referendum offer, the Tories will be going to
Westminster in a taxi

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 717 words


It does not happen very often, but occasionally a general election campaign
effects a seismic and unexpected transformation in politics: 1945 was one of the
rare examples. There is now a strong potential for that to happen in 2010. It is
not just the emergence of a rogue card - a Joker with the face of Nick Clegg -
it is the startling anomaly that is beginning to take shape around the issue of
Europe.

Many people, and Eurosceptics in particular, are undergoing the surreal
experience of recognising that the Liberal Democrats - the party that is more
communautaire than the European Commission - might become their best bet for
securing a referendum on membership of the European Union. Nick Clegg is
certainly dangling that prospect with some skill. But, in its present form, it
is a tease that will only last 24 hours, just long enough for bemused
Eurosceptics to appraise it, note all the caveats and dismiss it.

On the other hand, if Clegg were to seize the opportunity of maximum publicity -
the television debate tomorrow night - and firm it up into a guaranteed
commitment within 18 months of any government in which he might participate
taking office, there would be a strong temptation for Tory Eurosceptics to hold
their noses and vote Lib Dem. They are not tempted to do so as things stand,
because what is in the Lib Dem shop window is not attractive enough. It carries
the same drag-chain of "next time a major change is contemplated within the EU,
blah, blah" as Dave's own snake-oil offer.

But if, within the next 24 hours, Clegg were to take that fly-blown model out of
the window and replace it with a brand new, shiny, In/Out referendum commitment,
the effect could be catastrophic for the Tories. To understand why, one has to
examine the nature of the Cameronian support. It is multi-layered, like an angel
cake. The first layer, consisting of hardline Eurosceptics and social
conservatives has already left: that is why Dave is in such difficulties.

The next layer is not particularly socially conservative, but it is anti-EU. It
has a distaste for "fringe parties" but, at the same time, is nervously
conscious that the Tories are in danger of assuming that very status, under the
aegis of Dave and the Crazy Gang. They loathe the leadership and dread its lack
of effective economic policy: a referendum offer from the Lib Dems might just be
enough to persuade them to extend a couple of digits to Dave and sling their
hook.

The next layer consists of those who will vote Conservative, despite having no
faith in the Big Society candy floss and all the rest of the Daveguff, unless
they sense the party is losing critical mass, in which case they will disperse
to various alternative allegiances or abstain. Unless Cleggomania subsides soon,
that will happen. The remaining, vestigial layer is the loyalist vote that has
persuaded itself that, if Edmund Burke stood for one thing above all, it was the
right to hold orgies in a B & B. They will stay with Dave to the end, but they
cannot deliver him the election.

If Nick Clegg can confect a plausible line - "I am so persuaded that the country
shares my faith in the EU that I am prepared to put it to the supreme test of a
referendum, confident both of victory and that our participation in the future
development of the EU will be more united and constructive if endorsed by a
popular plebiscite, blah, blah" - Dave will be toast. Any counter-proposal he
might rush out would meet with the same reproach that Gordon Brown once
delivered to Tony Blair: "There is nothing you could ever say to me again that I
would believe."

It is unlikely that Clegg has the political skill to pitch it correctly. If he
gets it a little off-tone or hedges it with too many qualifications he will end
up with egg on his face. But if he takes a massive, well-calculated gamble and
succeeds, the Tories will be going to Westminster in a taxi next month.

UKIP would also be helped if this happened. Its members are too principled (that
is why they left the Tories) to join their main Europhile opponents on any
pretext whatever and some of the refugees from an imploding Tory Party would
flock to them. Nothing we have seen of Nick Clegg suggests he has the
Bismarckian chutzpah for such an initiative. But if, by any chance, he has...
Taxi for Mr Cameron!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 21, 2010 Wednesday 2:27 PM GMT

How to win in Kent

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 539 words


The Conservative candidates in Kent are well chosen. The county has always been
reassuringly undeferential. It was here that Wat Tyler began the Peasants'
Revolt, and here, too, that Jack Cade led his insurrection against the
quangocrats of his day. Kent was for Parliament in the 1640s, but on its own
terms: having raised a great deal of money in the name of the New Model Army,
its leaders instead decided to spend it on fortifying their border against, er,
Surrey.

As you'd expect in such an anti-Establishment place, the Liberal Democrats are
weak. Kent's marginals swung strongly behind Margaret Thatcher in 1979, and then
switched to Blair in 1997. What would be the effect of a Lib Dem surge in such
seats?

I have been campaigning in three North Kent marginals, and their candidates
exactly reflect the local temper. Gary Johnson in Dartford, Mark Reckless in
Rochester & Strood and Gordon Henderson in Sittingbourne & Sheppey are, like
their future employers, independent-minded, restless, patriotic and localist.

I witnessed a funny scene on a doorstep in Dartford. "I'm not voting for your
lot," said a young mother, "you're all Etonians". "I'm not," said Gary mildly
(he is one of those people whom it is almost impossible not to like) "I was at
Dartford Grammar. My dad was a milkman". But the woman was having none of it:
she had made up her mind about the Tories, and no first-hand evidence was going
to sway her.

I've blogged before about Mark Reckless being his own man. Like the equally
independent Gordon Henderson in the neighbouring seat, he wants Britain to leave
the EU and negotiate a Swiss-style free trade area instead. (And Mark knows what
he's talking about: he used to be a top-rated economist). The UK Independence
Party asked its candidates in both seats to stand aside, and their man in
Rochester & Strood very decently did so: a fine example of putting country
before party.

Why am I talking about North Kent? Because these are precisely the kind of
anti-politician electorates which, until now, have eschewed the Lib Dems as a
soggy, Euro-phile, pro-immigration party, out of touch with ordinary voters.
Nick Clegg's strategy depends on convincing such electors that his party,
founded in 1859, is new; that his policies, reflective as they are of the old
consensus, represent a radical alternative; and that he, a product of the
College of Europe in Bruges, the European Commission and the European
Parliament, is somehow anti-Establishment.

So far - there is no point in denying this - he has had some success, simply by
virtue of being less familiar than the other leaders. But my feeling from the
doorstep is that he is peaking. Voters are starting to look at his policies and
are finding that they don't much like them. They are realising that his party is
anything but anti-Establishment. And they are noticing that a vote for a Lib Dem
in most constituencies risks letting Labour hold the seat, which is often the
last thing they want.

Labour currently holds seven of Kent's 17 seats, and a Lib Dem surge might just
allow them to cling on to two or three of them. But my guess is that, by polling
day, people will have realised the nature of the choice before them, and will
vote Conservative for change.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 21, 2010 Wednesday 11:35 AM GMT

UKIP would be crazy to withdraw from the election. This could be their moment

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 239 words


I bow to no man in my admiration for Janet Daley, but I fear she's being rather
hopeful in pleading for UKIP to withdraw from this election.

On the contrary - Lord Pearson probably can't believe his luck. As polls stand,
a very strong Liberal Democrat showing in Parliament will make it impossible for
their partners (probably Labour) to deny their demand for proportional
representation, and end the monopoly of the pro-Brussels big three. Meanwhile
we'll have a slavishly pro-EU, pro-immigration government presiding over a
period of economic uncertainty, creating the perfect conditions for a UKIP
surge.

A party on the Right of David Cameron's Tories could easily get 20 per cent in
the polls, but it's unlikely they'd ever get the 35 per cent necessary to form a
first-past-the-post government. That's why under the current system they have no
hope, and most natural supporters side with the Tories.

But under PR the Tory party would almost certainly either split or its more
conservative members would join UKIP; it could even split three ways between
wets, libertarians and social conservatives. Labour and the Lib Dems would have
around 40-45 per cent between them, losing some support to far-Left parties like
the Greens. The remaining 5 to 10 per cent of the electorate would vote BNP,
depending on how further down the anti-immigration road UKIP decided to go.

Either way, for UKIP this is the best opportunity they'll ever have.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 21, 2010 Wednesday 9:39 AM GMT

UKIP should withdraw from the election

BYLINE: By Janet Daley

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 101 words


In the name ofits own principles, UKIP should nowfeel morally obliged to
withdrawits candidates from the generalelection - or at least from contesting
any seat inwhicha Liberal Democrat might oust a Conservative. If it does not -
and if it thus succeeds in depriving the Conservatives of a working majority and
inflating the LibDem result by default -itwill have been responsible for
providing the most Europhile party in British politics with signficant power in
a coalition government. Which gives a whole new meaning to the phrase "tragic
irony". Ibeg my old friend Lord Pearson to take this plea seriously.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Chatter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 177 words


Trends, topics and tweets Feel confident Nick Clegg will withstand the
inevitable attacks on him by those who want ultimate power and are drugged on
self importance http://tinyurl.com/FloellaBenjamin UKIP flyer. "Say NO to
immigration".

Doesn't work as well if your "about me" starts with "I was born in South Africa"
http://tinyurl.com/RichQuick Wondering if any fans are pilots and fancy taking
me to Budapest in a propeller plane on Thursday? http://tinyurl.com/AdamFreeland
There's something odd about a politician like Chris Huhne saying "well tanked
up" on national TV.

http://tinyurl.com/DavidMorris1984 Two tweets next to each other ... BA losing
money. Tesco profits soar. (Comfort food eating stuck at home?)
http://tinyurl.com/ AdrianMossTweets I've got an idea. If we all jump really
hard at the exact same time maybe the plates will shift back and block the flow
... http://tinyurl.com/CatherineGee Fancy cakes - anyone know someone who can
make a cake in the shape of a brain? Don't ask how I get into these scrapes.

http://tinyurl.com/KarenKrizanovich

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Sorry Mr Clegg, you don't seem so charming on radio

BYLINE: Gillian Reynolds

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 744 words


As the old song says, what a difference a day makes. On Wednesday night The Vote
Now Show (Radio 4) did a sketch about the three party leaders answering
questions but, as their team of talented mimics couldn't do Nick Clegg, his
answers were delivered in the voice and style of Frankie Howerd, complete with
"ooh er missus" expostulations. On Thursday night the actual party leaders'
debate was broadcast. I doubt The Vote Now Show will be resorting to Frankie's
voice again soon.

Their problem of how to deliver a vocally recognisable Nick Clegg remains. If
you listened to him on the real debate (Radio 4, Thursday) his voice had a sort
of closed throat, reedy sound, a bit like John Major's but posher. If Brown was
a bassoon and Cameron a flute Clegg was a clarinet. A slightly angry clarinet
too, one playing more tunes from the Ukip songbook than the classic
Grimond-Steel-Kennedy album. But that was on radio, where a fresh face, a yellow
tie and an easy relationship with the camera count for nought and what we're
used to is proper address to issues. There wasn't much of that on last week's
cliché swap shop.

This Thursday, of course, it will be different. Brown and Cameron will have
analysed why Clegg rated so highly in subsequent opinion polls and will react
accordingly. Clegg can no longer rely on being a novelty. Significantly, this
week viewers can only see it live on Sky News (BBC Two has a recorded version at
11.30pm) so Radio 4's live relay should pick up a bigger audience.

All three participants, therefore, should remember that listeners pay close
attention to what is said and what it means.

Substance was already a problem for The Vote Now Show last week. Months ago, it
must have seemed a good idea to do a late night election comedy show three times
a week, scripted on the day, recorded a few hours before transmission, performed
with an audience. The general lack of anything much to make fun of last Monday,
Tuesday and Wednesday nights was, however, apparent. I admit to falling asleep
while washing the dishes to it on the first night, waking up to cold suds and
studio laughter. Maybe this week will be hotter.

What the Election Papers Say (separate editions on Wednesday and Sunday nights)
is a much better idea and definitely a cheerier listen. This trusty old Granada
TV warhorse was put out to pasture by ITV, allowed a corner of a Channel 4
field, finally dispatched to BBC Two where it was left to die. Three cheers for
whoever thought of rescuing it. The old essay format, where the presenter writes
a script linking illustrative extracts from the week's press, still bursts with
life. All the presenters so far have kept it sharp and spiky, the extract
readers are full of gusto, production and editing are first-rate. It's an
espresso in a Horlicks world.

A Night to Remember (Radio 4, Saturday) reminded us that election broadcasting
on television has been with us 60 years, changing all the time.

Anthony Howard, who has seen, heard and been part of it all, presented. We heard
of mighty backstage rows between Robert McKenzie of the LSE (with his
swingometer) and David Butler of Oxford (with strict analysis of voting
statistics). David Dimbleby was asked what it was like to appear on election
night broadcasts his father Richard was presenting. Annoying, he said. The
different styles of Robin Day, Alastair Burnet and Jeremy Paxman were compared.
We heard a young John Humphrys, a young Michael Parkinson and a timeless Alan
Whicker, all on location. Election night broadcasts, said Howard, have become
showcases for the networks that carry them. If the days when ITN could trounce
the BBC are gone, the battle to get the first result on air remains hard fought.

This was an independent production, from Made in Manchester. Sixty years from
now will we remember Twitter and Facebook with this kind of affection? On
Tuesday news broke that Mark Damazer, Radio 4's Controller, will leave the
network this year to become the Master of St Peter's College, Oxford. Before he
came to radio his entire career was in television news, mostly for the BBC. This
will be his last election as a broadcasting mogul. Much as his schedules have
reflected his passions for history and America, greatly as he has enjoyed the
power to invest his budget in big series, I have a feeling it is being behind
the scenes on election nights he will miss most.

"If Brown was a bassoon and Cameron a flute then Clegg was a slightly angry
clarinet "

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEADERS' DEBATE: Nick Clegg may face a sterner test this Thursday night

REX

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

NIGEL Farage, a big turnip [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 76 words


NIGEL Farage, a big turnip in UKIP, arrives at Hickey Towers unannounced. I
agree to see him and he begs me to further his barmy party's efforts to lay
before the public the evils of GB remaining in Europe. From the window, I can
see, in the distance, my Eastern European workers toiling in the fields, and I
call upon Gregori to have the hapless Nigel removed. I suspect he was sent to me
as a prank my neighbour across the valley, MacDonald of MacDonald.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 76  words


°NIGEL Farage, a big turnip in UKIP, arrives at Hickey Towers unannounced. I
agree to see him and he begs me to further his barmy party's efforts to lay
before the public the evils of GB remaining in Europe. From the window, I can
see, in the distance, my Eastern European workers toiling in the fields, and I
call upon Gregori to have the hapless Nigel removed. I suspect he was sent to me
as a prank my neighbour across the valley, MacDonald of MacDonald.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday

Diary: There's no better place for beer and sandwiches in politics than on the
Lib Dem battlebus

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 650 words


?So it's Clegg by a head, and fitting then that the most luxurious of the three
main election battlebuses is the one crisscrossing the country on behalf of the
Liberal Democrats. It comes complete with white leather seats, tables and
sockets for laptops, a shower, fresh fruit, coffee on demand and, at the end of
each day, a steady supply of ice-cold beer. But the race is close and everything
matters, so when word of the Lib Dems' treatment of journalists reached Labour
HQ, press minders were quickly dispatched to a local supermarket to buy several
crates of beer. It might have worked, had it not been for the bus driver who,
having repeatedly managed to get lost at precisely the wrong time, declared that
consumption of alcohol would breach health and safety rules. Some suspect the
driver is not a Labour supporter. Maybe he is a Quaker?

?Yes it's all Nick Clegg, for now the most popular leader since Churchill. And
while the folk in yellow dream exciting dreams, one wonders what role they have
pencilled in for Tariq Khan, the candidate in Birmingham Hodge Hill? He
understands the local community, says the leaflet. He is being straight with
them. "We will invest in Wyre Forest's children," is his promise, which is fine
for youngsters in Wyre Forest, an altogether leafier constituency some 30 miles
away, but seems a bit tough on the little 'uns in Hodge Hill, the area he seeks
to represent. Memo to candidate: when you adapt a generic leaflet, change the
appropriate bits.

?And a memo to the would-be prime minister, the man in blue who stands for
"change". You can't keep imploring your constituents in Witney to do everything
they can to support local businesses on a leaflet you actually had printed in
Worcestershire. You did it last September with your annual report and quite a
few people, including printers in west Oxfordshire, were jolly cross. We can't
go on like this. Learn from your mistakes.

?They already have in Belfast, where Peter Robinson's Democratic Unionist party,
still reeling from the sex and property scandal visited upon them by his wife,
Iris, now realises that the most important things are integrity and
transparency. Unfortunate, then, that the man and woman asserting support for
the party on its election posters turn out to be models whose images were
obtained from an American photo agency. Thankfully, they are saintly types:
Mormons from Utah. But there the good news ends, for both say they have never
heard of Peter Robinson or the DUP and furthermore both tell Belfast's Sunday
Life that they object to this act of appropriation. But then look at it from
Robinson's point of view. Not many votes in a poster featuring Iris.

?Still, in Buckingham, where the electorate must decide between many candidates
- including Speaker John Bercow - they can at least take comfort from the fact
that the issues are becoming clearer. Henceforth, they must focus on Nigel
Farage, the talisman for Ukip. Specifically, they must answer the question
raised by the Sunday Times writer AA Gill: is the wannabe MP a man best avoided
in confined spaces? For he is a genial type, writes Gill, but "he also has
breath that could club a baby seal to death. Even across his desk, every time
something strikes him as funny there is a draught like Carnarvon opening a
pharaoh's tomb." The first rule of standing for parliament, asserts the
columnist, "is a toothbrush is not just for Christmas". Ukip types blame foreign
food. They would.

?And finally, three cheers to the Royal Navy for setting off so quickly to
rescue holidaymakers stranded by the Icelandic volcano. Four cheers even. For
when the idea was first unveiled on Sunday by security minister Lord West of
Spithead, there was no such contingency plan and no one at the Ministry of
Defence knew what he was talking about. An occupational hazard, but there they
go regardless. Makes you proud.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday

Education: Election 2010: How the parties compare: Ukip: "We will allow corporal
punishment" Lord Pearson of Rannoch

BYLINE: Anna Bawden, Jessica Shepherd and Neil Roberts

SECTION: GUARDIAN EDUCATION PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 532 words


Primary and secondary schools:

Ukip wants to return to a postwar-style system. It would reintroduce corporal
punishment and allow heads the ultimate say on pupil exclusions. It would bring
back grammar schools, through selection based on a "comprehensive test" at 11,
and reintroduce O-levels. Schools would be able to select pupils based on their
suitability for the education provided - putting vocational skills, craft skills
and sporting ability on a par with academic ability. Teachers and schools would
have more control over the curriculum. The QCA would be replaced by an
independent body and Ukip would return the focus in primary schools to the
"three Rs". Sex, relationship and drugs education would be abolished for
under-10s and optional for 10- and 11-year-olds. Education would no longer be an
instrument of social mobility. The party believes schools have become "crucibles
for social engineering" and would stop them teaching "political correctness or
EU propaganda". Control would be "franchised" out to private companies,
charities, religious institutions, universities or other educational
establishments. Ofsted and local education authorities would be abolished and
their responsibilities handed to governing bodies.

Further education:

Ukip would lengthen and enhance entry to employment programmes for those not in
education, employment or training, to overcome anti-work attitudes. It would
also revise the NVQ courses, emphasising their distinction from degree courses
in that they offer practical rather than academic training.

University:

University education would be funded by grants, but only for "those who really
should be at university" and targets to get 50% of school leavers into HE would
be scrapped. Ukip would review all HE institutions to decide which ones "really
deserve to be called universities" and which courses merit degree status.
Universities the party deems fail to meet these standards would be redesignated
as technology and training colleges. All European studies courses and
lectureships would be abolished because, says Ukip, they are little more than
avenues for pro-EU propaganda. The Office of Fair Access, which promotes fair
access to university education, would be axed. All students would be given
vouchers for a proportion of their costs and they would be allowed to top up the
vouchers by working or taking out commercial student loans. Teacher-training
colleges would be separated from universities.

Special educational needs:

Ukip would re-examine the policy of including children with special needs in
ordinary state schools, which it believes has failed. It would support special
schools for children with learning difficulties. Ukip also says that children
with "severe physical handicaps" should be educated in special schools.

Early years:

Ukip would introduce a flat-rate, non-means-tested voucher covering half the
cost of a full-time nursery place. The nursery voucher would replace early
years' funding, Sure Start, the childcare element of working tax credit, and the
tax relief on employer nursery vouchers.

Adult learning:

Ukip says it fully supports adult learning, both through the Open University and
adult education classes.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday

Campaign 2010: Simon Hoggart's sketch: Tapsell still the dish of the day at age
of 80

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 580 words


To Lincolnshire, to visit Sir Peter Tapsell in his home. It is his 15th
parliamentary election, and if he wins next month - something he won't take for
granted, though everyone else does - he will become Father of the House.

This is largely an honorary title, but it does mean that he will be in charge of
proceedings for the election of the Speaker on the first day of the new
parliament. With several Tories hoping to get rid of John Bercow, this could be
quite a tricky job, and he has already been briefed about the problems he might
face - if he is elected, as he invariably says.

He believes it is vital for the new parliament to get off to a good start, and
begin to recover from the horrors of the recent past. And the main reason he is
running again at the age of 80 is because he doesn't want to be lumped in with
the flippers and duck house people who have been obliged to quit.

It's something of a pilgrimage for me. Like all sketchwriters, I love it when
Sir Peter speaks, his words seemingly carved into instant stone as he utters
them. I once compared him to George Best and to Alfred Brendel (though to
resurrect the old joke, Best couldn't play the piano, and Alfred Brendel is a
lousy footballer). My encomium appears prominently in his election address.
There was of course a considerable degree of irony in what I wrote, which Sir
Peter well knows, though he hopes that the voters of Louth and Horncastle won't
spot it. It would be easier if there were a typeface called ironic bold.

I was invited for lunch, at his wonderful house. My visit was at an hour's
notice, so I assume they eat like this every day. Lady Tapsell, who is from
Normandy, served us a velvety watercress soup, accompanied by chilled Sancerre.
Sir Peter, a well-known Eurosceptic, said he had some anxiety about Ukip, as
there is much anti-Brussels feeling in the area. However, the Ukip candidate,
Pat Nurse, seems more concerned with health. "I support lifestyle choice and an
end to the denormalisation (sic) of adults who do not take on board health
propaganda," whatever that means. As a rallying cry against fisheries policy and
the CAP it seems lacking.

Lady Tapsell brought us delicious local roast beef, plus fried potatoes and a
glass of Chateauneuf-du-Pape. Sir Peter described his typical day, which
consists of driving round the villages and market towns in an ancient Land
Rover. He speaks for 10 minutes then asks for questions. People are too polite
these days, he thinks. There is not enough heckling, though in Alford four or
five very big men stood nearby in a threatening way and swore at him. "We don't
want any of your fucking nonsense," one of them said. "Bring back national
service," said another. "Yes," Sir Peter replied, "and you would be a fine
candidate for it."

Lady Tapsell produced a platter of French cheeses with fresh fruit. "I am told
that the Liberal candidate is conducting a campaign based entirely on the
email," Sir Peter said. He once remarked that he didn't have "an internet" and
doesn't wish to consult "Mr Google" every time he wants to know Tory policy.

Lady Tapsell brought us the first of two desserts, caramelised strawberries,
with dessert wine.

Sir Peter suspects that the strains in the eurozone will, ultimately, lead the
Germans to renegotiate their relationship with the rest of Europe, and that will
be our chance to do the same. Lady Tapsell produced home-made cafe glace, coffee
ice cream. I could hardly get behind the wheel to drive away.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday

Social policies: general election 2010

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 3862 words

ABSTRACT

As the election approaches, what are the policies on social issues offered by
Labour, the Conservatives and the Liberal Democrats?

FULL TEXT

We look at the policies on social care, family, health, criminal justice,
housing, poverty, social exclusion and civil society from Labour, the
Conservatives, the Liberal Democrats, the Green party and Ukip.

Labour

Social care policies

After all the brave talk about Labour making long-term care a key election
battleground, the issue is hardly prominent. The Tories' "death taxes" attack no
doubt scared off Labour campaign managers from the kind of frank debate about
funding support for older and disabled people that some in the party wanted to
initiate.

Instead, Labour offers the watered-down recipe for a national care service for
England, as set out in a white paper in the dying days of government: that is,
free home care for people with greatest needs from April 2011, funded by £670m
savings by the Department of Health and local councils; free residential care
from 2014 for all who have self-funded for the first two years, paid for by
£800m from freezing inheritance tax thresholds; and "after 2015" - in other
words, in the parliament after next - a comprehensive system of universal free
care to be funded by a system that remains to be clarified. Yet another
commission would be set up to decide this.

A national care service would iron out anomalies and inconsistencies in care
provision, and the emphasis would be on personalised services, delivered
­increasingly in people's own homes.

· David Brindle is the Guardian's public services editor

Family policies

The new toddler tax credit will see families earning less than £50,000 a year
with children under three years old getting an extra £200 a year. All new
fathers will get a month's paternity leave - up from two weeks. Labour plans to
convert its Sure Start nursery centres into children centres that will offer
"one-stop shops, open to all families, offering excellent affordable childcare,
healthcare and parenting advice". These may also be freed from local authority
control - an echo of Cameron's policy on co-operatives.

Labour proposes more flexibility to the nine months' paid leave for mothers,
allowing them to share this entitlement with fathers after a minimum of six
months. There is also an offer to explore the ways parents will be allowed to
carry over "free hours of free nursery education from year to year".

On child protection, the pledge is to "improve foster care" and expand
specialised foster care for the most vulnerable children; it says ensuring all
children are safe from abuse and harm will be "a top priority". Serious case
reviews into child deaths and cases of severe abuse will not be published in
full, but detailed summaries "which explain the facts" will be released. A
National College of Social Work will be established to raise status and
standards in the profession.

· Randeep Ramesh is the Guardian's ­social affairs editor

Health policies

All hospitals will become foundation trusts, and the more successful will be
given financial incentives to swallow up underperformers. They will be
encouraged to expand into primary care and to increase their use of private
services where appropriate.

The waiting list targets that helped win Labour the 1997 election are out of
favour across the parties. But patients don't want to wait. Labour offers a
maximum 18-week wait for treatment, or care in the private sector. Cancer test
results must arrive within a week of referral to a specialist, and over-40s will
be guaranteed routine check-ups.

Labour offers a right to choose any provider that can meet NHS standards on
quality and price. There will be a right to choose a GP practice in your area
open at evenings and weekends, more services available on the high street, and
the right to a care plan and personal budget for anyone with a long-term
condition. Some 8,000 therapists will be trained to ensure access to talking
therapies for people with mental illness.

· Sarah ­Boseley is the Guardian's health editor

Criminal justice policies

At the heart of Labour's policy are pledges to maintain police numbers by
protecting their funding in the coming public spending squeeze, and to boost
prison capacity from its current 84,000 to 96,000 by 2014. It does pay some lip
service to tackling the causes of crime, especially the promise to take action
to "tackle the problems caused by 50,000 dysfunctional families".

It pledges to triple the number of alcohol treatment places for repeat
­offenders, but the funding of such initiatives must be in doubt when so much
funding will have to go into maintaining a record police force of 141,000, which
senior officers doubt is necessary.

The legal power for any consistently failing force to be taken over by a better
performing police force is no substitute for Labour's failure to agree a new
accountability mechanism to drive up performance, having abolished all but one
of its central targets.

· Alan Travis is the Guardian's home affairs ­editor

Housing and local government policies

It is generally accepted that Labour would press ahead with city-­region
"compacts" - one pilot city-region, Greater Manchester, is moving to a new form
of indirectly-elected governance - although it is unspecific on additional
revenue-raising powers for town halls.

The manifesto promises £235m to ­create "new and refurbished" play spaces and,
like the Lib Dems, commits to protecting the remaining post office network -
although it is not clear how. Labour will move to safeguard threatened pubs,
telling councils they "must take account of the importance of pubs to the local
community when assessing proposals that change their use". The party promises
legislation to ­create "cleaner neighbourhoods" with a clampdown on litter - a
difficult task for some authorities as specific funding for this area has been
squeezed.

On housing, it pledges to reform the council house financing system, which it
claims will allow 10,000 new council homes a year to be built, and while not
going as far as the Scottish government in, effectively, abolishing
right-to-buy, Labour has reduced generous discounts for council house sales and,
for the first time in over 20 years, pushed through a modest council house
building programme.

· Peter Hetherington writes on housing and regeneration

Poverty and social exclusion policies

Labour reiterates that "no child should have to grow up in poverty. . . we will
continue to make progress towards our historic goal of ending child poverty by
2020". In the budget, the government admitted that the 2010 figure was over its
target by more than 600,000-700,000. Labour's family measures do point to the
party's commitment to fighting poverty, as will the extension of free school
meals, but it's probably not enough to make a serious dent given the recession.

Work is seen by Labour as the way out of poverty, and the party has pledged to
increase the national minimum wage at least in line with average earnings up to
2015. Whitehall departments will pay its lowest-paid workers the so-called
living wage - currently almost £2 an hour higher than the minimum wage. In
trying to out-tough the Tories on benefits, the party has promised to extend its
"tough but fair" work capability test - which many say will force even more
people with disabilities and poor health off incapacity benefit and employment
support allowance into work. RR

Civil society policies

Labour has already implemented or is proposing many similar ideas to those put
forward by the Tories. Take outsourcing more public services to charities and
social enterprises: in government, Labour announced that a social investment
bank, funded by dormant bank accounts, would help fund social enterprises to do
just that. It now plans to extend the right, which currently ­exists in the NHS,
for frontline public sector workers to request that they deliver services
through a social enterprise. It also wants private investors to support social
­entrepreneurs to tackle social problems through social impact bonds.

Both parties want the third sector to deliver welfare to work and be paid by
results. This has already begun, although Labour acknowledges that it needs to
create a level playing field for voluntary organisations competing for public
­sector contracts. And Labour has its own plan for youth volunteering through a
National Youth Community Service, to match Cameron's National Citizens Service,
and for community empowerment through mutually-owned football clubs, pubs and
new public services.

Controversially, it talks of expanding US-style street teams, using youth
­pastors and vetted ex-offenders to reach out to disaffected young people - an
idea that has been promoted by Tory thinktank, the Centre for Social Justice.

· Alison Benjamin is editor of Society Guardian

Conservatives

Social care policies

The Tories take a voluntary approach to long-term care funding. For a one-off
payment of "around £8,000" - a figure derided by many experts as unrealistically
low - people in England would be able to guarantee themselves free residential
care (including, apparently, the food and accommodation costs excluded from
Labour's plan).

The Tories had promised to produce an equivalent blueprint for home care funding
before the election, but this has not materialised. The manifesto simply says
they "will work to develop a system" to enable people to top up the residential
care premium to cover domiciliary support also.

All the main ­parties back extending the concept of personal budgets, but the
Tories say they would combine health and social care funding in a single budget
for people living with a long-term condition or chronic illness. DB

Family policies

The Conservatives have pledged to "recognise marriage and civil partnerships in
the tax system in the next parliament". There would be £750 transferable tax
­allowance for couples earning less than £44,000, paid for with a £1bn levy on
banks.

The party's plan to focus on the "real" middle classes - those with household
incomes below £50,000 - will mean that services and government benefits continue
to be enjoyed by those whose income exceeds the "median". Child trust funds and
Sure Start will focus mainly on the poor. What is largely left unsaid is that
Sure Start has two purposes: to ensure that no child is left behind, and to
provide nursery places. Refocusing Sure Start on the poorest means the middle
class might lose local nurseries.

The Tories are expected to repeal the law that set up children's trusts which
placed a "duty to co-operate" on police, schools and social services. They say
the trusts didn't prevent the death of Baby Peter and lead to a " a buck-passing
culture where, because everyone's in a meeting, no one is responsible". RR

Health policies

NHS staff will be "properly accountable" to patients, which the Tories say will
enable them to cut the cost of administration by a third and channel the money
into supporting frontline doctors and nurses. The health budget will increase
yearly in real terms.

Politically-motivated targets that have no clinical justification must go,
­allowing doctors to decide priorities. GPs will hold patients' budgets and
commission care on their behalf.

Patients must be able to see a local GP between 8am and 8pm and at weekends.
There will be a 24/7 urgent care service, including GP out-of-hours care.
Politically-sensitive closures of A&E and maternity wards will stop. Children's
hospices will get £10m a year from 2011.

A £200m cancer drug fund will be set up to pay for treatments that are
considered not cost-­effective but which doctors want to prescribe. A Department
of ­Public Health will replace the Department of Health. SB

Criminal justice policies

Reforming the police, with the pledge to introduce directly-elected
commissioners to replace "invisible and unaccountable" police authorities, is
centre stage. The new commissioners will have the power to set budgets and
policing strategy, but will not be allowed to interfere with operational
independence.

The latter is a very grey area. Police authorities and chief constables have
already started to campaign against the plan, raising fears of Sir Ian
Blair-style sackings across the country.

An expectation of prison for all knife-crime offenders will fuel a further rise
in the prison population, as will Cameron's promise of longer sentences. The
party has dropped a plan to build 5,000 more prison places than Labour's 96,000
target. Instead, it promises a "rehabilitation revolution" to train
ex-offenders.

The other promised departure is to encourage courts to use abstinence-based drug
rehabilitation orders. AT

Housing and local government policies

After a council tax freeze for two years, electors will have the right to
trigger a local referendum on opposing or limiting a tax increase. The party is
pledged to "match pound for pound" council tax receipts generated from new house
building, and money raised will be used for new community facilities.

It is committed to scrapping an ­expensive local government inspection regime,
abolishing Labour's regional tier of planning, encouraging county and unitary
councils to compile infrastructure plans instead, and limiting planning appeals.
An "open source" planning system says it will allow each neighbourhood to
specify what kind of development it wants in its area. More first-time buyers
will get on the housing ladder as a result of stamp duty being scrapped for them
on properties below £250,000. Tenants will be rewarded for good behaviour with a
10% equity share in their social rented property that can be cashed in when they
buy a home. PH

Poverty and social exclusion policies

The Tory message is: "We need a new approach: social responsibility, not state
control; the big society, not big government. Only in this way will we tackle
the causes of poverty and inequality, rather than just the symptoms."

Cameron promises to be tough on the causes of poverty, which he sees as big
Labour government, rather than the symptoms, such as alleviating poverty. It
appears to mark an end to state-led redistribution and the beginning of a
radical overhaul of government to "repair the torn fabric of society".

The result is that the Tories have few carrots and many sticks for the poor. The
minimum wage is kept and there is support for keeping but "reforming" Labour's
tax credits. But the Tories are toughest on welfarism. Long-term benefit
claimants who fail to find work will be required to "work for the dole" on
community work programmes. Anyone on jobseeker's allowance who refuses to join
its proposed Work Programme will lose the right to claim out-of-work ­benefits
until they do. Those who refuse to ­accept "reasonable" job offers could lose
benefits for three years.

There's justifiable concern over whether it is possible to re-assess all 2.6
million incapacity benefit claimants, as the Tories promise, without causing
massive disruption. RR

Civil society policies

The Tories' big idea for this election is the big society. What this means in
practice is rolling back the state - or, as Cameron calls it, "rolling forward
society". It centres on the "little platoons" of civil society being able to
take over local amenities such as parks and libraries, having greater control
over planning, and holding the police to account through neighbourhood meetings.
Cabinet Office budgets will fund the training of independent community
organisers to help people set up and run neighbourhood groups in the UK's
poorest areas, and it will employ US-style "nudge" thinking (peer pressure) to
turn us into a nation of volunteers.

The Tories propose to level the playing field for charities that deliver public
services by allowing them to "earn a competitive return for providing public
services". Its financial vehicle to support social entrepreneurs is the Big
Society bank, also funded by dormant bank ­accounts, though possibly more than
the £75m pledged by the last government. Most interestingly perhaps, the Tories
talk of developing a measure of wellbeing that encapsulates the social value of
state action. The Green Party, however, by creating a citizens culture, as
opposed to a ­consumerist one, claims it will improve all our ­wellbeing. AB

Liberal Democrats

Social care policies

Like Labour, the Lib Dems propose an independent commission to sort out the
thorny issue of funding long-term care. Resulting proposals must attract
all-party support, they stress, which ­appeared to be a sentiment endorsed by
all three of the main party leaders in last week's televised debate.The Lib Dems
would use some of the £670m earmarked by Labour for free home care - a policy
they dismiss as flawed - to guarantee a week's respite for the 1 million carers
they say look after a "sick relative" for more than 50 hours a week.

Dementia research would be given priority within the health R&D programme, and
health and social care would be integrated "to create a seamless service, ending
bureaucratic barriers and saving money to allow people to stay in their own
homes for longer rather than going into hospital or long-term residential care".
Quite how this would be achieved is left unclear. DB

Family policies

With the caveat that the economy will come first, the Liberal Democrats ­offer a
long-term vision of 20 hours' free childcare a week for every child from the age
of 18 months to five years old, and they are seeking to extend the period of
shared ­parental leave up to one and a half years, as in Sweden. The Daycare
Trust charity advocates this level of public commitment - about £10bn - to be
set aside for early childhood education and care.

Children at risk will be helped, say the Lib Dems, by their plans to publish
anonymised versions of serious case reviews into child safeguarding failures.
The aim is for at least a 70% reduction in child maltreatment by 2030. RR

Health policies

Major structural reforms are proposed, including halving the size of the
Department of Health, scrapping strategic health authorities, capping the pay of
NHS managers to no more than the prime minister's, and setting up
locally-elected health boards that will commission care for their area, linked
to councils. They, too, talk of patient choice. (The Greens are the only party
that do not, calling it "phoney" and saying most patients simply want good care
close to home.)

The Lib Dems want everybody to be able to choose the GP they want, even outside
their area, and be able to contact them by email. They will reduce targets and
bureaucracy, replacing them (like Labour) with entitlements guaranteeing
diagnosis and treatment on time, or care in the private sector.

In direct response to the scandal over the fatal overdosing of a patient by a
German locum GP, it will become illegal for a local health board to allow a
doctor to work in the UK without passing ­language and competence tests.
­Hospitals will be required to be open about mistakes and tell patients when
something has gone wrong. As a possible way of curbing harmful drinking,
below-cost alcohol sales will be banned and minimum ­pricing will be explored.
SB

Criminal justice policies

Nick Clegg also promises police reform, with direct elections to police
authorities that would have the power to sack and appoint chief constables. A
promise of 3,000 more police ­officers is to be financed by scrapping ID cards
and the prison building programme. The latter is perhaps the most radical
proposal of the major UK parties on crime, with the Lib Dems claiming to be able
to save £795m annually by cancelling the new prisons.

The manifesto says that a presumption against short-term sentences of less than
six months will be introduced, with more offenders who are drug ­addicts or
mentally ill moved into more appropriate secure accommodation. This sounds good
on paper, with courts being provided with the option of "rigorously enforced
community sentences" instead. But sentencers have ­always appeared reluctant to
give up short prison sentences. It may take more than introducing a
"presumption".

Elsewhere, the public are to be given a direct say in how petty criminals are
punished, through neighbourhood justice panels. These are modelled on a scheme
in Somerset, where 95% of offenders have been steered away from further crimes.
AT

Housing and local government policies

While committed to reforming local taxation and introducing "fairer local taxes
based on ability to pay", the party has pulled back from its one-time flagship
policy of a local income tax to replace the council tax and now says it will
invite councils to pilot a local income tax in a few areas. It is also committed
to returning the business rate to councils and scrapping a local government
inspection regime which, it claims, cost £1bn annually.

The party says it will let authorities build a "new generation" of council homes
by borrowing against their ­assets and ensuring borrowing is not counted as
national debt. It wants to bring 250,000 empty homes back into use - the Greens
want double that - with renovation grants and loans. PH

Poverty and social exclusion policies

The poorest workers in Britain would be £700 better off at a stroke under a
Clegg administration as income tax will not have to be paid on the first £10,000
earned. This single measure, making the tax system fairer, will prevent "3.6
million more people on low incomes from having to pay any income tax at all".

The Lib Dems have wooed the poor pensioner vote with their pledge to
­"immediately restore the link between the basic state pension and earnings".
The UK has among the lowest state pension costs in Europe as a proportion of GDP
- and the highest risk of any EU state of pensioner poverty occurring. However,
the Lib Dems did not talk about benefits. The big aim is to make work pay but
this will miss the many children in workless families, 80% of whom are in
poverty.

This stuff looks timid compared to the Greens, who promise to double child
benefits - an extra £1,000 a year to parents - with the £14bn per year bill
recovered by soaking the rich. RR

Civil society policies

Plans to make ­people free to tackle local problems through voluntary activity
include: ­introducing "easy giving accounts" at publicly-owned banks to allow
people to operate charitable ­giving accounts; reforming Gift Aid to operate at
a single rate of 23%; and ­reforming the process of criminal record checking so
that volunteers need only one record that is portable.

They also want to encourage local authorities to provide youth services in
partnership with young people and the voluntary sector, and see a greater role
for third sector organisations in the ­delivery of the NHS and welfare to work.

They support more mutuals, co-­operatives and social enterprises.
­Interestingly, they will change the way the national lottery is taxed, from a
ticket tax to a gross profits tax, which they claim will deliver more for good
causes, and they also plan to raid dormant ­accounts - but betting ones, instead
of bank accounts - to improve local sports facilities.

Whoever wins the election, expect the third sector's role in the delivery of
public services to expand. AB

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Tory decapitation squad targets Jacqui Smith, but she will go down fighting;
The former minister has a tiny majority to defend in Redditch, and a
controversial expenses claim to explain. By Jerome Taylor

BYLINE: Jerome Taylor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1576 words


"I may lose this election," admits Jacqui Smith, clasping her coffee mug in both
hands. "Lots of friends and family advised me not to fight this seat. But I'm
not someone who walks away. If I lose, I lose, and it may be to do with expenses
or the national scene. But at least I know I've given people the opportunity to
have their say about me and given myself the opportunity to put right any
mistakes I may have made."

Behind her, a noisy folding machine spits out a fresh batch of flyers for
volunteers to stack on the few remaining surfaces in Labour's election
headquarters in Redditch - two sparsely furnished rooms in an industrial estate
behind the town's railway station. An air of quiet determination pervades the
room. That and lots of dust. Even without the expenses furore - her husband
famously charged taxpayers for two blue movies, while Ms Smith claimed her
sister's spare bedroom was her main residence - the electoral hill facing the
former home secretary was always going to be steep.

Redditch is a classic suburban marginal: a predominantly working-class town
surrounded by Tory-leaning rural Worcestershire. Ms Smith has won the last three
elections, but every time it was by a paper-thin lead. Her current majority is
2,128, making Redditch Labour's 28th most vulnerable seat. All the Tories need
is a 2.5 per cent swing to take it. And to make life harder still, boundary
changes have added a patch of countryside known as Hanbury and the Lenches,
which will bring some 2,000 predominantly Conservative voters to Redditch.

Labour tried to stop the boundary changes - Smith even penned a personal letter
to the Boundary Commission. Now she will spend much of the next few weeks wooing
voters there.

"I go out every month to do my surgery around the villages," she says. "It's not
a fundamental change in the nature of the constituency but, yes, all the
analysis says it will nominally reduce my majority. I had a tough marginal seat
before. That makes it tougher."

Now that she's away from the Cabinet, and no longer surrounded by a phalanx of
advisers and press officers, Ms Smith is refreshingly accessible. Several
newspapers have reported that the former home secretary is elusive, even
avoiding them. It took little more than a couple of emails, though, to sit down
with her.

Expenses feature prominently as an albatross round Jacqui Smith's neck. After
all the lurid headlines and front pages, in the end she was asked to pay back
£1,470 - less than half the average £3,316 that 391 of her fellow MPs were told
to return. But her Cabinet profile, the fact that she was the first MP to be
outed, and the unusual nature of her claim meant that she has inevitably become
one of the most recognised "shamed MPs".

The Tories know this, smell blood, and are determined to decapitate such a
high-profile Labour candidacy. The woman lined up to try to topple Ms Smith is
Karen Lumley, a 46-year-old councillor and businesswoman who has lost to Labour
twice before in Redditch but is convinced that victory will be hers this time
around.

Both candidates are formidable female politicians with a strong local base, and
have been living in the area long enough to be well-known to voters. And while
both parties campaign on the same two main issues here (economic recovery and
antisocial behaviour), the Tories have two trump cards to play on the doorsteps:
the ace of expenses and the ace of Lenches. "We've done a lot of work out in the
Lenches and met a lot of very nice people who say they have every intention of
voting Conservative," says Ms Lumley. "We're working very hard but nothing is
being taken for granted."

Complacency is a vice neither candidate can afford. At the outdoor food market
in Redditch town centre there's little political consensus among the traders
other than general antipathy towards all politicians. They are angry about
Jacqui Smith's expenses but hardly queuing up to vote Tory.

Brian Taylor, 55, who runs a perfume stall outside the Kingfisher Shopping
Centre, says with a tired shrug: "None of the main parties will be getting my
vote. Spiralling fuel prices, unemployment, bankers being bailed out - you just
feel so let down by the lot of them. Jacqui Smith is actually quite well thought
of as a local MP but the expenses stuff was so disappointing. Karen Lumley might
win but she won't be getting my vote. I'll probably go for Ukip or BNP."

Leslie Macintyre is one of the few market traders willing to cash her chips with
the Tories. She and her husband, Paul, proudly point out that their 17-year-old
son Taylor is busily working the stall alongside them.

"What we need is a government that looks after hard-working families," says Mrs
Macintyre, 44. "We've brought Taylor up to know that if he wants to get ahead in
life he has to be prepared to work. Too many people under Labour have been
allowed to claim disability benefits or shy away from working, it's outrageous."

To the exasperation of his wife, Mr Macintyre has never voted. "That causes no
end of arguments in our house," he says. Mrs Macintyre is adamant about casting
her ballot: "I think for women it's doubly important. It wasn't all that long
ago that we didn't even have the vote."

Paul Walker, a 42-year-old former soldier who now runs a fruit stall, is the
most politically enigmatic of the day's traders. He says he likes Jacqui Smith
and describes her as a "good local MP". But both Labour and the Tories, he says,
have turned Britain lazy. "It's like the whole country has just been watered
down," he explains. "That's why I'll vote BNP."

He stops to rearrange his display of bananas and quickly adds: "But it's not
because I'm racist." At that moment a middle-aged Muslim woman walks up and asks
for half a pound of potatoes. Mr Walker replies with a competent grasp of pigeon
Bengali. "You want aloo?" he asks. "Boro or choto?" (big or small). After
serving her, he turns back to me. "It's the people who don't work that bother
me," he says. "The colour of their skin doesn't matter."

Out in the verdant villages to the south of Redditch - rural Worcestershire -
life is a little slower and traditionally Tory-leaning, although Labour has
always had just enough voters to hold on to the constituency. Redditch itself,
surrounded by fast-moving ring roads, roundabouts and industrial estates, is a
fast-growing new town of 77,000 inhabitants where housing and jobs are in short
supply. It should be fertile hunting ground for Labour but, as the market
traders show, the typical class divisions that once defined Britain's two main
voting blocs are blurred beyond recognition.

The village of Feckenham, four miles to the south of Redditch town, has those
picture postcard qualities; a co-operative village shop, two pretty pubs and
each summer the residents place tables end to end in the square next to the
church for a village picnic.

Ian Ridley, 55, is using a moment of warm sunshine to repaint the windows on his
house next to the village square. "I'm a Labour voter and always have been," he
explains. "I think a lot of people expect everyone round here to be Tory but
it's not as simple as that."

The expenses scandal, he says, never really bothered him. "I'm relatively
cynical about politicians. I've always thought you've got to be a pretty corrupt
person to do the job so the expenses stuff never surprised me. But Labour get my
vote because of what they stand for. My wife's a little different - for her,
personality politics plays a big role."

It's precisely because the constituents of Redditch are so undecided that
there's still everything to play for. The Tories should be winning by a mile.
Either the Conservatives are failing to get their message across, or the former
home secretary is still respected in her home town. It's worth noting that a
"Get Jacqui Out" petition, organised on the same model that forced the
neighbouring Tory MP in Bromsgrove, Julie Kirkbride, to step down within weeks
of the expense scandal erupting, fizzled out in Redditch. Supposedly 6,000
signatures were collected, but have never been made available to scrutinise.

One local journalist, who has been working in the region for 30 years but asked
not to be named because his paper remains neutral on the election, put it thus:
"If you asked me six months ago I'd have said Jacqui was dead in the water. But
I think a lot of the expenses anger has died down. She's seen as a good local MP
and may just about hang on."

All of which keeps Ms Smith ebullient. "I'm a politician and I do elections,"
she concludes. "You can't have a democracy if people won't fight elections
because they think they might lose. It's for the people of Redditch to decide
who their MP is going to be, not the national media and politically motivated
campaigns."

EXPENSIVE MISTAKES

Smith's battle against history

Jacqui Smith was the first female home secretary in British history, but her
Cabinet career was overshadowed by becoming the first politician to be publicly
caught out in the MPs' expenses scandals. She was caught out because her husband
had put in a claim for two pornographic movies, charged to the taxpayer. It also
emerged that she had been claiming for her sister's house as her main residence.

REDDITCH 2005 RESULTS

2005 Votes 2005 Share

* LABOUR Jacqui Smith 18,188 43.79%

* CONSERVATIVE Karen Lumley 16,060 38.67%

* LIB DEMS Nigel Hicks 5,904 14.21%

LAB Majority 2,128 5.12%

Electorate 65,970 Turnout 62.96%

Results for 2005 implied from new boundary calculations

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

We don't realise how politics affects us... until we can't get a job -TOM
HATTON, 18;
YOUTH UNEMPLOYMENT, DAY 2: FIRST-TIME VOTERS

BYLINE: REBECCA LEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 831 words


IN Labour's Britain, youth unemployment is the highest in Europe.

One in five young people is unable to find a job and those eligible to vote for
the first time on May 6 face becoming a "lost generation" of NEETs - Not in
Employment, Education or Training.

Here, in Day Two of our series on youth unemployment, REBECCA LEY asks
first-time voters how their experiences will influence who they back at the
ballot box.

1 Becki Sunden, 23, jobless, Archway, north London. Becki, who completed her
economics degree at Aberdeen University last year, says: "I've applied for ten
jobs a month since I finished university last year and I've had a few
interviews, but it's very hard to get anywhere.

"Every time I get a rejection email it's really depressing.

"They all blame the 'sheer volume' of candidates.

"Around 10,000 graduate schemes were scrapped in the credit crunch and I think
the Government should have done much more to help university leavers.

"Nick Clegg from the Lib Dems came across well in the leaders' TV debate but I'm
not convinced his policies will help people my age."

2 Stacey Leishman, 18, student, Glasgow.

Stacey says: "I started to become interested in politics in school and it soon
became clear to me that I agreed with some of the Conservative policies.

"I know a lot of people with good degrees who can't find work, and I don't want
that to happen to me."

3 Brad Alexander, 20, from Aylesbury, Bucks.

Office worker Brad says: "I don't see any point in voting because no matter who
you vote for, it won't change anything. I know I'm lucky to have a job, but I'm
not interested in politics.

"I don't feel like any politicians really care about how people my age feel."

4 Nicole Wright, 17, student, Gravesend, Kent.

Nicole, who turns 18 on polling day, says: "I'm looking forward to using my vote
on May 6, but I'm still undecided which party I'll support. I originally thought
I'd vote Labour but after I started looking into it a bit more I think I might
vote Conservative.

"I might get a job next year rather than going to university - I don't want to
waste the money if I'm not going to get a good job."

5 Maria Gardner, 18, student, Newcastle.

Maria says: "I like the fact that the Liberal Democrats were opposed to the Iraq
War. That is an issue that I felt really strongly about.

"But to be honest, I haven't really thought that much about who I'll vote for. I
thought Nick Clegg came out best in the leaders' debate.

"He had good points on scrapping ID cards and Trident.

"Unemployment does worry me. I tried to apply for a summer job as a cleaner and
the firm had to take the advertisement off their website as they were so swamped
with replies.

"I need a job to pay my rent this summer, as well as a career when I graduate."

6 Jules O'Dwyer, 19, gap-year student, Leeds.

Jules says: "A lot of people my age are talking about voting Tory.

"The party has rebranded itself so successfully, but I think the Lib Dems
represent much more of a cross-section of the population and I support a lot of
their policies."

7 Laura Thomas, 19, student, Cannock, Staffs.

Laura says: "I don't know who I'm going to vote for, but I'm going to make the
effort. I liked Nick Clegg as he seemed normal and sincere.

"As a physio student, I worry about what will happen to the NHS. I want a
government who'll look after it properly."

8 Michael Heaver, 20, student, Norwich.

Michael says: "I'm from a Labour background but I'm voting UKIP.

"The TV debate showed up the leaders of the main parties as boring and without
much personality.

Like a lot of students I'll be £25,000 in debt by the time I finish university
and I wonder if it will have been worth it. Labour have devalued degrees by
encouraging everyone to go to university."

9 Tom Hatton, 18, student, Manchester.

Tom says: "Young people often fail to see the relationship between their lives
and politics.

"It's only when they find it hard to get a job or a house that they start to
realise it affects them too.

"I am the only member of my family to support the Conservatives.

"To me, they represent aspiration and hard work.

"I'm very worried that when I graduate, I'll struggle to get a job.

"The Tories say tackling youth unemployment is a priority, which is a major
reason I'll back them."

10 Caitlin Bateman, 21, student, Liverpool.

Caitlin says: "I thought I'd vote Labour before the TV debate but after Nick
Clegg's performance I'm now keener on the Lib Dems. Labour had the goal of
getting 50 per cent of people into higher education but that has left the nation
with a lack of vocational skills. University isn't for everyone."

11 Lianne De Mello, 22, Harrow, north London.

Lianne works as a campaign assistant and says: "I'm bored of Punch and Judy
politics where the two main parties fight between them.

"It's important to have as many voices as possible, which is why I'll be voting
Green.

"I think the Labour Party has let young people down.

"So many graduates now are having to do further studies because a lot of firms
aren't taking on new recruits."

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

NI increases will cost NHS £20m a year, claim Tories

BYLINE: Simon Johnson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 503 words


LABOUR'S plans to increase National Insurance will cost the Scottish NHS
£20million a year, the Scottish Tories' Westminster general election manifesto
will claim today.

The document, being unveiled today in Melrose, in the Tories' target seat of
Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk in the Scottish Borders, will also urge the SNP
administration in Edinburgh to protect health spending and instigate a further
two-year council tax freeze.

Despite such issues being the responsibility of Holyrood, not Westminster, the
move is likely to urge Alex Salmond to think again about abolishing prescription
charges and to drop his opposition to privatising Scottish Water.

Among the other promises is to repair damaged relations between Mr Salmond, the
First Minister, and the British Government and to transfer more powers to
Holyrood.

Speaking ahead of the launch, Annabel Goldie, the Scottish Tory leader, said:
"The Conservatives would scrap Labour's jobs tax on doctors and nurses and use
the money saved to tackle the postcode lottery and make clinically effective
drugs available all across Scotland.

"It is time the SNP started to listen and stopped deluding voters that Scotland
is immune from the effects of Labour's debt mountain."

But an opinion poll published by a Sunday newspaper, and taken either side of
last Thursday's televised debate, showed ALLAN MILLIGAN falling support for the
Conservatives and SNP.

The YouGov survey of 1,471 Scots gave Labour 40 per cent, the SNP 20 per cent,
the Liberal Democrats 19 per cent and the Tories 16 per cent, with little change
in each party's seat total from the 2005 general election.

Labour claimed that the figures meant the Tories' sole Scottish seat,
Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale and Tweeddale, was "put into play" and said it would
be directing more resources there.

John Curtice, a professor of politics at Strathclyde University, said Alex
Salmond could not entirely blame the SNP's flatlining support on his exclusion
from the televised party leaders' debates. He said the "SNP bandwagon was
already juddering to a halt" before Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, pulled off a
surprise victory in the first debate.

Mr Salmond will have a chance to reinvigorate his party's campaign tomorrow with
the launch of the SNP's general election manifesto.

Among the pledges it will include is a promise to introduce a veteran's card to
ensure that Scotland's servicemen and women get the best possible care on
leaving the military.

However, Audit Scotland has warned politicians against promising to protect
spending in certain areas, arguing that this would be a "missed opportunity" to
deliver services more efficiently.

BERWICKSHIRE, ROXBURGH& SELKIRK 2005 General Election: Turnout 63.3% NUMBER OF
VOTES SHARE OF VOTE CANDIDATE Michael Moore (Lib Dem) 18,993 41.9% John Lamont
(Con) 13,092 28.8% Sam Held (Lab) 7,206 15.9% Aileen Orr (SNP) 3,885 8.6 % John
Hein (Liberal) 916 2% Graeme McIver (Scot Socialist) 695 1.5% Peter Neilson (
UKIP) 601 1.3% Majority 5,901 13% source: politics.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Where is the Mythical Beast of Redditch?;
BATTLEGROUND ; Tanya Gold visits Jacqui Smith's constituency, but finds the
former home secretary is not at home

BYLINE: Tanya Gold

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 1091 words


DOES Jacqui Smith really exist? I ask because I have been stomping through her
Redditch constituency for 24 hours, looking for her. I have banged on the door
of her office. I have rung the bell of her house. I have left telephone messages
and scribbled notes. I have been on my knees to the news editor of the Redditch
Advertiser, begging for information. Nothing. The Mythical Beast of Redditch is
not here.

This is very odd, because Redditch, Worcestershire, first mentioned in print in
1348, the year of the Black Death, is a middle England marginal and a
weathervane of things to come.

A town with a wilting manufacturing industry, Jacqui has held it for Labour
since 1997 but it could easily go Tory on May 6. Her majority is a twig-slender
2,716 and the seat is 47 on the list of Tory targets. So, where is she? Show
yourself!

There may be a reason why Jacqui is hiding. Last year, while she was home
secretary, she put two pornographic movies on her expenses, including the
classic Gordon Brown Cuts Taxes and Improves Public Services While Wearing a
Thong. (OK, I made that up.) Her husband Richard took the flak but Jacqui had to
resign from the Cabinet and pay back £10. I wander the High Street asking people
if they have seen her. "She is at home watching porn," says one man. But she
didn't answer her door, I say - I knocked. "Then she is out watching porn," he
replies.

In a situation like this, there is only one thing a woman can do - go canvassing
with the Liberal Democrats. I head to a suburban street to find some.

Just five minutes into the breach and it is genial chaos. One Lib Dem has
dropped his rosette. Another can't bend down to post leaflets. A third locks me
in his car. Once this is sorted, the Liberal Democrats and I walk down the
street in a synchronised montage, like a rubbish version of Reservoir Dogs.

Their candidate is Nick Lane, a tall, handsome lawyer with a posh, hesitant
voice. "People are quite angry because of the Jacqui Situation," he says, "75 -
80 per cent of voters are undecided. I don't get so much anger. I get more," he
pauses, "resentment." We knock on a few doors. The first voter says he is
"leaning to the Right". I guessed that when I saw the tiny coat of arms in the
tiny hallway of his tiny house; I am certain he wants to declare war on
Birmingham.

One voter is quite excited. "Are you going to sock it to Jacqui-what's-herface?"
he asks. "Yes," says Nick, faintly, although he isn't a man to sock a sock. "I
mean - sock it!" shouts the voter, eyes bulging, as if in return for his vote
Nick has to beat up Jacqui.

Further down the street, Nick has to explain to someone why we can't just
exterminate bankers. "We can't just shoot them," he says. The voter looks
disappointed.

But hanging with the Lib Dems has brought me no closer to Jacqui. I can sense
she has passed by - her smell, even her aura lingers in this seat - but of her
actual human body, nothing.

Cllr Diane Thomas (Lib Dem) knows her well, and even has her private telephone
number. But she won't give it to me. I have already tried Jacqui's office - it's
an answer machine - and the campaign mobile. This is answered by a voice that
says it will pass on a message to Jacqui. I think the voice may actually be
Jacqui, which means I have asked Jacqui Smith to pass a message to Jacqui Smith
twice. "She's lovely," says Diane, "a very nice person." I am not sure she is a
nice person. I am beginning to think she is only an idea.

Back in the Holiday Inn I turn on the news. And - disaster! Jacqui is there on
the TV. I browse her website. There she is, campaigning in Redditch - holding a
balloon, hugging a child, laughing. She is taunting me.

The next morning, down in the High Street, the only people who seem to be
campaigning are representatives from the Dogs Trust charity. They have a picture
of a dog, next to a sign that says, "Will you be my friend?" Could she have
disguised herself as a dog? This is middle England. They would love to send a
dog to Westminster. They could be the first.

A taxi driver tells me that Jacqui "is always in the local paper with her arm
around some child". So I find some children and wait for Jacqui to pounce like a
social democrat harpy, looking for a photo opportunity. Nothing. I pass a bin.
Is Jacqui in the bin? Thwarted, I do what any sane woman would do. I hang out
with the Tory candidate, Karen Lumley. She is the favourite. Paddy Power in the
market place has her at 1-8 with Jacqui at 9-2. Karen looks like Tammy Wynette
and she smells of the perfume Lou Lou.

"I am a Cameron Cutie," she says, shaking her blonde helmet, "I was a Hague
babe." She has contested this seat three times and she is very jolly. She drives
me around in her mini, which also smells of Lou Lou. Then she jumps out to hug
babies and ask old people how they are, although she won't approach houses with
dogs. "A dog bit me once when I was campaigning," she says, showing me a scar on
her thumb.

Back on the mean streets, I find a young couple - have you seen Jacqui? "She's
useless," says the man, "Redditch town has deteriorated."

"That isn't Jacqui Smith's fault," says his girlfriend, "that's Redditch's
fault." She stares around and adds, "I've actually met her." You have? You have
met the Mythical Beast of Redditch? What did she say? The woman pauses
dramatically and replies: "She said, 'Vote Labour.'" And so, at last, beaten, to
the cottage of Anne Bradford, a local historian who has written a pamphlet
called The Life and Times of Jacqui Smith. Anne is Jacqui's No 1 fan and the
most biased historian in, I suppose, history. Whenever I mention Jacqui she
gives a loving smile. She keeps saying Jacqui is "brilliant" and she can't
believe that such a "brilliant" person gave an interview to someone so "humble".
She is like a historian under Stalin: "Comrade Stalin, I mean Comrade Jacqui, is
brilliant!" Did you ask the brilliant Comrade Jacqui about the expenses? (About
the porn?) "I didn't want to do that," coos Anne, "because someone might pay her
a lot of money for talking about the scandal and I didn't want to spoil it for
her."

Instead, Anne has touching tales about the brilliant Jacqui's brilliant
humanity. Like - when she played hockey at school, she got beaten round the
head. And that she has fallen over while canvassing. And that people often
complain about alien landings in Redditch. (Presumably these voters are Ukip.) I
say goodbye to Anne Bradford and head south. Ladies and gentlemen, Jacqui Smith
is not at home.

" Her aura lingers in this seat, but of her human body, nothing"

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Jacqui Smith has a majority of 2,716 in Redditch. The seat could well
go to Karen Lumley, the Tory candidate, inset
GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 19, 2010 Monday

Liberal Democrats surge 10 points in Guardian/ICM poll

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 848 words

ABSTRACT

Labour forced into third place for first time ever in Guardian/ICM voting
series, which began in 1984

FULL TEXT

The extraordinary surge in support for the Liberal Democrats continued to gather
pace today as a Guardian/ICM poll put the party in second place on 30%, up ten
points in a week.

Labour has been forced into third for the first time ever in the Guardian/ICM
voting series, which began in 1984.

The findings - which follow a dramatic series of weekend polls, including an ICM
survey only partly carried out after last Thursday's televised leaders' debate -
suggest Britain is on course for a hung parliament.

Since the last Guardian/ICM survey a week ago, Labour support has sunk by three
points and Conservative support by four points.

All the fieldwork for the poll was carried out after the leaders' debate.

The Conservatives are on 33%, the score the party achieved under Michael Howard
in the 2005 election and its lowest in any ICM poll since July 2007. Labour, on
28%, is at its lowest since last October.

Other smaller parties are on 9%, including four for the nationalists, two for
Ukip and one for the Greens. There is no sign of the Lib Dem surge also helping
other small parties.

Compared to the more recent weekend ICM poll for the Sunday Telegraph, which was
conducted only partially after the debate, Labour are down one, the
Conservatives down one and the Lib Dems up three.

It is impossible to calculate today's poll results reliably in terms of
parliamentary seats, although if votes moved proportionately in every seat then
Labour might end up as the largest party despite coming third in votes.

The Lib Dems, although second in votes, would be substantially behind the other
two parties in terms of seats.

The party is attempting to manage expectations after its recent poll boosts.

Speaking in London, the party's leader, Nick Clegg, said: "I think this general
election campaign is starting to come to life for the simple reason that a
growing number of people are starting - it is only a start - starting to
believe, starting to hope, that we can do something different this time.

"[They are starting to believe] that the old tired choices that they have been
given by the old parties of the past no longer need to govern the way in which
we run politics in the future."

The Tory leader, David Cameron, warned voters that a hung parliament would
result in a Labour government, saying it would lead to politicians "haggling"
and trying to "stitch things together" while voters could find they were "stuck
with what you have got".

"We have to explain that actually if you get that, you are not going to get the
decisive action and the change we need," he said at a campaign event in London.

The Tories today shelved a party political broadcast attacking Labour in favour
of one that "responds to the public mood".

The video, due to have been aired this evening, has been replaced with a
"personal statement" from Cameron in which he details his values and qualities.
It was filmed last night in the back garden of his London home.

Gordon Brown said the election should be decided on the issues, not on
personalities. Speaking to journalists on a train to the West Midlands, he said:
"We have heard quite a lot about who people are but not what they stand for.

"It's not going to be the X Factor multiplied by three. People will make their
minds up on the basis of policy."

An analysis of today's Guardian/ICM poll shows the Lib Dems are drawing support
from all directions, including from some people who did not vote at the last
election.

Labour and Conservative hopes that the Lib Dem breakthrough is illusory are not
borne out by the data, which suggests existing party supporters are also moving
strongly to Clegg's party.

The Lib Dems are picking up most votes from Labour, which is down eight points
on its 2005 election performance - in itself the lowest in recent times for a
governing party.

In today's poll, the Lib Dems have gained twice as much support from Labour as
from the Conservatives.

Meanwhile, Labour is losing support in all directions, including to the
Conservatives and other smaller parties. The Tories are losing almost no support
to Labour and gaining almost as many former Labour votes as they are losing
former Tories to the Lib Dems.

Clegg still lags in third place as the man voters see as the most competent
prime minister, on 21% against 32% for Cameron and 30% for Brown.

But he trumps his rivals by being seen as a man who is more about substance than
spin. Cameron fails on this, with 44% thinking him insubstantial, against 29%
who say that of Brown and only 19% of Clegg.

Clegg is also seen overwhelmingly as the most honest party leader. While 53%
think Cameron is honest about his policies and their implications and 51% think
Brown is honest, 74% say so of Clegg.

· ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1024 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 16-18 April. Interviews were conducted across the country and the results
have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the British
Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 19, 2010 Monday 9:56 PM GMT

General Election 2010: Clegg steals a green march on Cameron

BYLINE: By Geoffrey Lean

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 477 words


So Nick Clegg has outflanked David Cameron again - by being the first leader to
highlight green policies in the election. Today he launched plans to create
"jobs that last" by stimulating "a green, sustainable economy", as the opening
shot in a promised week-long focus on "how we can build a new economy from the
rubble of the old". He added: "We have detailed plans to make our economy
environmentally, financially and socially sustainable". And he promised to
invest 3.1 billion of savings in public spending in "housing, planning and green
energy", including in "wind energy and energy efficiency in public buildings and
homes" and in bringing "empty homes back into use through renovation."

Cameron may well feel miffed, because it was he that pioneered in this political
territory on becoming Tory leader, bringing green issues smartly up the agenda.
He has longed seemed to be personally much more committed to the environment
than the other two party leaders, and is probably the greenest-ever head of a
major British party. Under him the Conservatives have produced the most
comprehensive and considered policy documents, notably one on the low carbon
economy last year, and one on energy in the last few months. And some of his
headline policies are more far-reaching than Clegg's: he promises, for example,
to give each homeowner a loan of 6,500 for energy efficiency measures, whereas
the Liberal leader yesterday offered a gift of just 400, which does not go far.

And yet Nick Clegg has stolen a march on Cameron, because the Tory leader has so
far done little to raise green issues in this campaign. Key advisors have
pressed him to play them down, stressing instead that he should be presented as
the man who can save the economy. But that strategy has hardly been a crashing
success, while his quietness on the environment - one issue that people do link
with him - has increased the feeling among the public that it does not know
where he stands for. He no doubt will address it sooner or later, but Clegg has
ensured that he will then look as if he is playing catch-up instead of leading
on them, as in the past.

Of course it may be that Cameron's advisers are right and Clegg is wrong, and
that greenery is a vote-loser not a vote-winner. That certainly was not so some
years ago: Cameron's emphasis on it helped bring his party back into political
contention and his local election slogan "Vote blue, go green" was successful
beyond the expectations of even his most environmentally-friendly shadow
ministers. But, some will argue, the recession has changed all that. Well, now
we have a test. One indication would be if the Clegg boom now tanks. Another
would be if the UKIP vote soars now that it has increased its scepticism over
global warming. Personally, I suspect that green issues are still electorally
potent, but let's see what happens.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

They gamble knowing that the taxpayer will always bail them out;
For all the frothing, nothing has been done about banks Ross Clark ; THUNDERER

BYLINE: Ross Clark

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 445 words


How clever of Goldman Sachs to announce £3.5 billion worth of bonuses for its
staff in the week that it was sued for fraud by the Securities and Exchange
Commission. It is not hard to guess what will happen next. Politicians on both
sides of the Atlantic will undergo another bout of frothing at the mouth over
bonuses- and will continue to procrastinate over the real problem: that banks
remain too big to fail.

Goldman Sachs's profits and bonuses wouldn't matter a fig if the US Government
was prepared to let it go bust. But that won't happen, because when it did with
Lehman Brothers in 2008 it caused such havoc that governments effectively
underwrote all banks. Goldman Sachs's staff know full well that, however great
the risks they take with other people's money, the taxpayer will always bail
them out.

It is now 18 months since the banking crisis. In that time there has been a
complete lack of reforms to prevent practices of the kind of which Goldman Sachs
is accused. All we have had in Britain is a little bonus tax.

Alistair Darling even boasted in his Budget speech about how much it had
raised-oblivious that this "success" is really an indication of how little the
tax has changed banks' behaviour.

By this stage of the 1930s banking crisis the US had passed the Glass-Steagall
Act, separating retail banking from the pure gambling- sorry, "investment
banking". It was a fundamental reform that ensured ordinary depositors were not
at risk from speculative activities, and was not repealed until 1999-funnily
enough about the time that the banking industry again began to spin out of
control. This time around there has been plenty of talk about cutting banks down
to size and separating retails from investment functions, but no action
whatsoever. Only the Lib Dems and UKIP hold out any promise of separating retail
from commercial banking in their manifestos.

Why shouldn't banks be limited to a certain size, and restricted to specific,
nominated activities that could easily be assessed for the risks they pose to
the bank's stability? Bankers would huff and puff and call it unwarranted
interference in the free market, but we could then have a proper capitalist
economy in which speculators were liable to be punished, as they should be, for
irresponsible behaviour.

It doesn't happen because the British and US governments are addicted to the tax
revenues from financial services and don't want to risk doing anything that
might send banks overseas. So they bark about bonuses to keep the public happy,
while greedily eyeing up the rising profits. If I worked at Goldman Sachs I
would bet my bonus on there being another, even bigger, banking crisis.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

The Real Three-horse Race;
At long last, uncertainty enters the fray

SECTION: FEATURES; LEADING ARTICLES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 280 words


For years it has been a boringly predictable, recurrent victory parade for the
red team. But this time has been different. The blues, backed by a stupendously
wealthy foreign donor, have become the favourites. Yet the reds, led by a dour
Scot, are clinging on. Even the third-placed team - brilliant at style, thin on
substance, and often wearing yellow - have been a serious force.

It is, of course, the football Premiership. With a three-way battle between
Chelsea, Manchester United and Arsenal, this has been the best and most
unpredictable title race in years. The political anology extends even to the
influence of a fourth, rogue entity: Tottenham Hotspur have shown UKIP how to
unsettle the favourites.

Those who argue that a great season requires one overwhelmingly dominant team
miss the point. Quite the reverse is true. Sport depends on drama, and drama
requires uncertainty. We are deep into the final chapter of the season - by
which point the trophy is often already with the engraver. But this year the
result remains in doubt. Even though Arsenal blew a 2-0 lead yesterday, they
have held off the duopoly of Chelsea and Manchster United for far longer this
season. That is good for everyone. You do not have to be Nick Clegg to believe
in widening the field. American sports have long understood the benefits of
competitive equipoise. They operate a draft system so that the worst teams have
access to the best new players, and redistribute wealth from rich teams to the
poor.

But there is a crucial difference between sport and politics. Happily, you
cannot have a hung Premiership, or a minority champion. Perhaps three-horse
races are better left to sport, after all.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday

BLACK DOG COLUMN

LENGTH: 496 words


Sam Gyimah, who is set to become the first black MP for true blue Surrey East,
has kept his sense of humour despite a plot to oust him by Tory malcontents.
When a lass at a public meeting piped up: OEAs a woman and a young person, I
speak as a member of a minority,! Sam replied: OEAs a 5ft 5in tall black man, I
thought I had that role tied up.!

THE MAD HATTIE!S IDENTITY CRISIS

Harriet Harman is fed-up being mistaken for ex-Home Secretary Jacqui Smith in
her London constituency, close to the bedsit Smith said was her OEmain home!,
allowing her to claim thousands on a family house in the Midlands. A voter
berated Hattie: OEYou!re never at home but you still claim exes on it.! She
snapped: OEI!m not Jacqui Smith, I don!t claim a second-home allowance and my
husband [union boss Jack Dromey] doesn!t watch porn.!

RANTING OFF THE MENU FOR HOSTESS CAROLINE

UK Independence Party leader Lord Pearson!s wife Caroline, left, boasts that she
is the only person who can curb his Euro obsession. A guest at one of their
dinner parties said: OEWhen Malcolm [Lord Pearson] started ranting about the EU,
Caroline said, 3Malcolm, you know my rules. Five minutes on Europe, then shut
up.  He did what he was told.!

It is just as well the owner of London!s crumbling Battersea Power Station
didn!t turn up there for David Cameron!s manifesto launch. Irish tycoon Johnny
Ronan is at the centre of a scandal for spending 660,000 on a private jet to fly
a model to Morocco for the weekend after a row with his girlfriend. Ronan!s
firm, which owns the power station, is being bailed out by Irish taxpayers.

BARONESS HOGWARTS?

Ministers tip Labour-supporting Harry Potter author J.K. Rowling to be offered a
peerage - Baroness Rowlinginit of Hogwarts? - after her broadside against the
last Tory Government. Recalling her life as a struggling writer and single
mother, she seemed to blame the Tories for adding to her OEclinical depression!
by attacking OEfeckless lazy and immoral! unmarried mothers.

The latest Blairite to join Gordon Brown!s Election team is Benjamin
Wegg-Prosser, former aide to Peter Mandelson. Moscow-based Wegg-Prosser has
dined with Mandy and Russian tycoon Oleg Derispaska. They also stayed together
at the Swiss Alps home of banker Nat Rothschild, a mutual friend, where they
were encouraged to use his Porsche and Ferrari.

Political novice Sarah Wollaston - the GP standing as Tory candidate in Totnes -
may be green, but she!s not stupid. Her predecessor, expenses-shamed MP Anthony
Steen, who boasted his taxpayer-funded second home resembled Balmoral, offered
to help her campaign. Savvy Sarah replied: OEThanks, but no thanks.!

The audience at the TV Election debates might have obeyed orders to keep quiet
but there was no such restraint at the BBC Question Time special the same night.
Two members of the audience were ejected after abusing host David Dimbleby.
OEYou haven!t got the balls to let us ask a question,! shouted one, to which
Dimbleby responded: OEDon!t swear at me.!

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday

Election 2010: A brave new world

BYLINE: Martin Kettleguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 767 words

ABSTRACT

Martin Kettle: Clegg's breakthrough is the most important leap towards a new
sort of post-industrial politics since the early days of New Labour

FULL TEXT

It is hard to say whether it will last, though my guess is that it will. Whether
from here it grows or diminishes will depend in large part on unforeseeable
events. But it is now beyond doubt that something major has occurred. And it has
happened because the conditions were right for it to do so.

I could be talking about the Icelandic ash cloud. But in fact I am talking about
the Lib Dem opinion poll surge that may rewrite the terms of the 2010 election.
Just as you only get a volcanic eruption in parts of the world where the
geological tectonics allow, so you only get a political eruption in a place
where the electoral tectonics are ready for it too.

The Lib Dem surge owes much to Nick Clegg's . That's clear. But it would not
have happened if the British electorate was not already prepared, maybe only
half consciously, for a larger change than the two main parties offer. The
desire for change may not be all that coherent, and we need to be careful not to
exaggerate the size of the part of the electorate that is up for it. But this is
a mood looking for someone to speak for it. For the moment, it has found that in
Clegg and the Lib Dems.

One of Britain's political problems is that the two main parties are the
remnants of the social and class divisions of industrial society. Those
divisions still exist, but they are less widespread and in most respects less
acute than in the era when the parties were formed. People's lives and views of
the world are framed by many more things than class. The two main parties have
struggled to adapt to those changes while remaining in most respects rooted in
what formed them in the past. It is possible to look at Margaret Thatcher's Tory
party and at Tony Blair's New Labour as attempts, albeit rooted in verydifferent
traditions, to break out of their respective parties' pasts. Both were
successful for a period, but neither has been able to sustain itself for much
long than a generation. In the end, both the Tories and Labour have now been
forced to retreat into their stockades and traditions.

Yet we still need parties that speak to who we are now, rather than what we may
once have been. That, in short, is why there are so many more parties in the
contest now - nationalists, greens, xenophobes and, biggest of all, the Liberal
Democrats. Don't forget that the Liberal Democrats are barely 20 years old.
There seems no good reason why this process should not intensify in 21st century
Britain, especially under electoral reform, if it ever comes.

Clegg has tapped into this greater volatility and weakening traditional loyalty.
He has been helped by the insistence of Labour and the Tories that the election
is necessarily only about them. Clegg knows this is not true - and the voters
who have erupted into the Lib Dem camp know it is not true either.

The Lib Dem surge has happened because a huge number of voters do nottrust the
Conservatives, even under Cameron, and no longer haveconfidence in Labour,
especially under Brown. The conditions existed for a third party to tap into
that feeling, and Clegg has made it happen.

Perhaps in the longer term this will mean that eventually we will get a group of
parties in 21st century politics which better reflect the different kinds of
people we are in modern Britain. That's not an entirely comfortable thought for
people like me. A lot of people in this country deeply dislike foreigners. A lot
want to pull the drawbridge up against any British person who isn't from their
own tradition - national, religious, lifestyle or class. To me, the Lib Dems are
different, since they are not anti-foreigner (like Ukip, the BNP and parts of
both the Tory and Labour parties) and they are not national or cultural
tribalists (like the SNP, Plaid, and perhaps also, in rather different ways, the
Greens and much of Labour).

A week from now, if Clegg stumbles in the second debate and if the tabloid press
gets to work frightening people about the Lib Dems, this could look very
different. Right now, however, this is the most important leap towards a new
sort of post-industrial politics since the early days of New Labour. New
Labour's fate is a lesson in how things can go wrong. But there is still plenty
of reason to cheer this Lib Dem surge. It has thrown the 2010 election open.
And, even more important, it may point the way to a new set of party alignments
and political reforms better suited to the modern age.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 18, 2010
                                 First Edition

The City Diary

SECTION: Pg. 86

LENGTH: 674 words


A show to promote? Don't worry, all's fair in love and PR

There's an old trick in the entertainment publicists' manual that allows PR folk
to promote all kinds of projects - all they have to do is create a "real-life"
sub-plot involving the stars of the relevant show, spread the story, and retreat
to a safe distance.

The tactic worked when disc jockey Chris Evans and pop star Geri Halliwell were
supposedly courting - a sweet tale made only slightly less believable by the
coincidence of the stars sharing their PR man, Matthew Freud. At the time of the
"romance", Evans was plugging his radio show, and Halliwell had a fresh tune to
promote.

If that seems a touch cynical, then consider how this fortuitous PR break seems
to repeat itself - most recently when an awful-looking film called the Bounty
Hunter got a timely boost from co-stars Jennifer Aniston (above) and Gerard
Butler reportedly having an affair (it now seems they did not).

All of which brings us neatly to BBC2's reality business show, Dragons' Den, and
the spat between James Caan and Duncan Bannatyne over the former's non-dom
status - even though both have co-invested in seven businesses on the show.
You'll be amazed to learn, then, that the Beeb has just started filming the
programme's eighth series, meaning we'll all be desperate to discover if this
animosity transfers to the screen.

So, does the row exist? Says a BBC spokesman: "As far as I know, the issues
raised are for real". So, it's all down to propitious timing, once again.

To every party supporter there is a season

Sir Peter Gershon (right), Labour's former efficiency guru who's now working for
the Tories, believes controls on public-sector recruitment could save up to
£2bn, while IT spending cuts might do the same. Standard Life chairman, Gerry
Grimstone, who's advising Labour on efficiency savings, reckons the Tory plan is
"just not credible". So far, so predictable. Yet Grimstone has talked privately
about how he'd be willing to serve under a future Conservative government,
thereby emulating Sir Peter's flexibility. Has he suffered a sudden attack of
loyalty?

Is there a crystal ball in the Prince's office?

Henry Angest, the publicity-shy Swiss-born financier who controls Arbuthnot
Banking Group, is one of the Tories' biggest financial backers, and also funds a
network of obscure Eurosceptic groups. One is run by Lord Pearson (left), the
leader of Ukip, who warned earlier this month that a Tory election victory
"would be the end" of Britain.

That irritating chain of events has caused a bit of a fuss, but I can't help
thinking that somebody saw this entire kerfuffle unfolding. Back in March, Sir
Michael Peat, the principal private secretary to the Prince of Wales, quietly
resigned from the Arbuthnot board after just two years. Is the man a prophet?

If you want to get on, get fined £750,000

The FSA's insider dealing probe is causing some to take a sideways look at City
history. In 2006 hedge-fund manager Philippe Jabre was fined £750,000 by the
regulator for market abuse. Has it hindered him? Not at all. In 2007, he opened
a new fund - one of the largest launches in recent years. A hedgie explains:
"The FSA fine is a great marketing tool. Everybody wants their money with Jabre;
they think he knows things others don't." Expect promotional literature for the
Calvert Absolute Returns Fund imminently.

Short shrift for women's claims of sexism in the City

Has the great City sexual discrimination scam been rumbled? A certain type of
City woman has long benefited from joining an investment bank, and waiting to be
the butt of an inevitable sexist comment that makes staying in her job simply
impossible. The only thing that can soothe her pain is a cheque for millions -
and petrified banks have been happy to sign them.

No longer. I read that the £3m case brought against Nomura by Maureen Murphy and
Anna Francis has been thrown out after a Central London Employment Tribunal
panel ruled the "incidents and remarks were trivial". About time too, some might
say.

postmaster@slackbelly.com

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                 First Edition

No baloney! Maloney says his X-factor will KO Griffin;
Inside Lines

BYLINE: Alan Hubbard

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 534 words


Some will tell you that Frank Maloney (right) is barking mad if he thinks he is
going to have MP after his name following the 6 May election, But the pint-sized
promoter insists he is simply mad about Barking, where he is standing as a UKIP
candidate in a six-strong field which includes the BNP leader Nick Griffin. He
tells us his great desire remains to give Griffin, a Cambridge boxing blue, a
black eye, so to speak, both in the ring and the ballot box. "I asked him why he
didn't take up my challenge for a three-rounds charity bout between us and he
said: 'Well, I've got a glass eye.' So I said: 'I've had a heart attack, so that
should level it up, and anyway you're a good bit heavier than me.'

The one-time amateur flyweight, never one to miss a self-promotional trick, says
the offer still stands. Maloney, 55, is unfazed by Griffin's protective posse of
muscle men, not least as several boxers from his stable have been supporting him
on the campaign trail. And should Rendall Munroe win his world
super-bantamweight title eliminator against Mexican Victor Terraza in Coventry's
Skydome on Friday, he promises to bring some of his fellow binmen down from
Leicester to cheerlead Maloney at the hustings. Maloney, who is in Barking from
6-11am every day and back in the evening knocking on doors, reckons he has
enough of the X-factor to KO both Griffin and Barking's Labour MP Margaret
Hodge, deeply unpopular over the expenses scandal. "People I've spoken to seem
to think I'm more honest and in touch with their problems than the other
candidates. I don't know how politicians can moan that they're overworked. If
they had to do what I do, campaign and run a business, they'd die. I've got five
shows to put together before the end of June." One of these is in Barking, a
week after the election. It features the British flyweight champion Shinny
Bayaar, an immigrant from Mongolia. "Maybe I should invite Nick along to give
him a cheer," muses Maloney.

Martina joins East Enders

Game, set and match to Martina Navratilova, now battling breast cancer, for
keeping her promise to visit a bunch of kids in London's East End where she even
climbed into a boxing ring (below) to take part in an impromptu sparring
session. The tennis legend was in great form at the Fight for Peace community
sports project in Woolwich, backed by the Laureus Sport for Good Foundation. She
says: "I was determined to make the visit as I wanted to encourage these kids
not to let anything stop them either." Navratilova, who starts radiation
treatment next month, also plans to lead a Laureus team up Kilimanjaro in
December, though she knows that first she has another mountain to climb.

Blue is her colour

Here's something to cheer up David Cameron after his (and Gordon Brown's)
clogging by Clegg. Karren Brady says the Tory leader "has more empathy with the
country and some of the issues we are facing". The West Ham vice-chair and
soon-to-be 'Apprentice' inquisitor reveals that politically she is more blue
than claret and is supporting the Conservatives. Seems Aston Villa fan Cameron
could do with some coaching in getting the message across from the feisty first
lady of football.

insidelines @independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   The People

                                 April 18, 2010
                                 3 Star Edition

Now here's a loony thought

BYLINE: Eamonn Holmes

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 96 words


REFORM of the system is something we hear from the big three parties. But how
could they mean it when keeping things as they are means that we don't get to
hear from all the smaller parties, be they Green, UKIP, BNP, or Monster Raving
Loony? The present system is like watching the same movie over and over again.
Same plot, same actors and often same outcome.

The only way the big three will peddle different policies is when we see and
hear on telly and radio what the others have to say. We don't have to agree with
them, but aren't we adult enough to make up our own minds?

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tp


                           Copyright 2010 MGN Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

CAMPAIGN TRAIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 211 words


TORY POLICE FEARS Tory plans to replace police authorities with commissioners
elected by the public could compromise the independence of forces, according to
the chairman of the Association of Police Authorities.

Rob Garnham, a Conservative councillor, expressed concern about a commissioner
who would have significant influence over policing priorities and budgets. He is
worried about politicians being able to influence policing directly. Police
authorities include nonpolitical members.

FATHER HELPS JENKIN Conservative MP Bernard Jenkin has been given money by his
father to repay cash he claimed to rent his sister-inlaw's farmhouse, just over
the road from a country home partowned by his wife.

Mr Jenkin, who is standing for re-election in Harwich and North Essex, was
originally ordered to repay £63,250, the largest amount demanded, but it was cut
to £36,250 on appeal.

In the Commons' Register of Interests, Mr Jenkin reveals he got £45,000 from his
father, Lord Jenkin of Roding.

FARAGE'S COIN TRICK Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader who is standing in the
general election, made a point about his dedication to keeping the pound by
handing over his £500 election deposit in £1 coins. Mr Farage is standing
against Commons Speaker John Bercow in Buckingham.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

ELECTION 2010

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5,6,7,8,9,10

LENGTH: 449 words


Take our light-hearted election quiz to find out how much you remember of week
two in the campaign...

1. If elected in Chorley, Alan Cullens will be the only Tory MP with what?

a) a pet tarantula

b) an Audi Quattro

c) a beard

2. Who said the following, and about whom was he talking? "If I want to be
shouted at by an overpaid prima donna, I'll join a Premier League football
club."

3. Which party's election posters feature images of the three main party leaders
under the caption "sod the lot"?

4. Who said, during campaigning: "I had no idea how many men open the front door
stark naked"?

5. Brian May, the Queen guitarist, is funding his own poster campaign on which
election issue?

6. On Friday, which of the party leaders:

(a) took part in a Q & A with a cross-dressing comedian

(b) appeared alongside a member of Take That

(c) met engineering apprentices on an industrial estate?

7. Who has Chris Evans appointed as "political correspondent" for his Radio 2
breakfast show?

8. For which American high school musical television series did Gordon Brown
claim a fondness?

9. Sian Lloyd, the weather presenter and former girlfriend of Lib Dem MP Lembit
Opik, is campaigning for which party?

10. Which party launched their manifesto at the Bloomberg financial news service
HQ in the City of London?

11. Match the person to the Twitter message: 1. John Prescott 2. Armando
Iannucci 3. Sarah Brown 4. Nadine Dorries

(a) You can see a little man performing a cartwheel in each of Gordon Brown's
eyes whenever he tells a joke.

(b) Bit of a shame to see my toes getting so much attention: was born with very
wonky toes and really can't do much about them.

(c) What has happened to Hazel Blears? She stood in a dip and no one can find
her

(d) Anyone know any good fish and chips shops in Chichester?

12. Which millionaire author, educated at Wyedean Comprehensive, said it was not
David Cameron's fault that 'he spent his adolescence in the white tie and tails
of Eton?

13. 'He's nice to dance with, because he's very light. He just flows'. To which
Cabinet minister was Hannah Rita-MacKenzie referring?

14. Which TV presenter, standing as a Labour candidate, has been described as
'Geoff Hoon in a skirt'?

15 Which police station visited by David Cameron was planning to buy a £73,000
Lexus?

ANSWERS

1. C

2. David Cameron, on his reluctance to be interviewed by Jeremy Paxman.

3. Ukip

4. Esther Rantzen

5. The Hunting Act. He wants voters to support any candidate committed to
keeping the law in place.

6. (a) Gordon Brown (b) David Cameron (c) Nick Clegg

7. Will Carling, the former England rugby captain

8. Glee

9. Plaid Cymru

10. Liberal Democrats

11. (a) 2 (b) 3 (c) 4 (d) 1

12. A JK Rowling

13. Peter Mandelson

14. Gloria de Piero

15.Hull

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

CAMPAIGN TRAIL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 216 words


TORY POLICE FEARS Tory plans to replace police authorities with commissioners
elected by the public could compromise the independence of forces, according to
senior police figures.

Sir Hugh Orde, the president of the Association of Chief Police Officers, and
Sir Ian Blair, the former Scotland Yard commissioner, have joined the
Conservative councillor Rob Garnham, the chairman of the Association of Police
Authorities, in criticising David Cameron's plans for directly elected police
chiefs.

FATHER HELPS JENKIN The Conservative MP, Bernard Jenkin has been given money by
his father to repay cash he claimed to rent his sister-inlaw's farmhouse, just
over the road from a country home partowned by his wife. Mr Jenkin, who is
standing for re-election in Harwich and North Essex, was originally ordered to
repay £63,250, the largest amount demanded. However, it was reduced to £36,250
on appeal.

In the Commons' Register of Interests, Mr Jenkin discloses that he got £45,000
from his father, Lord Jenkin of Roding.

FARAGE'S COIN TRICK Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader who is standing in the
general election, made a point about his dedication to keeping the pound by
handing over his £500 election deposit in £1 coins. Mr Farage is standing
against the Commons Speaker John Bercow in Buckingham.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Pro-Clegg surge could be here today, gone tomorrow;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1211 words


IT WAS always there in the background. A nagging question: "Why aren't the
Liberal Democrats doing better?"

The circumstances seemed ideal for a third party resurgence. An incumbent Labour
Government that has been deeply unpopular for much of the last five years. An
opposition Conservative Party that had apparently not "sealed the deal". Faith
in the political establishment shattered by the MPs' expenses scandal.

Never had the classic Liberal cry of "a plague on both your houses" seemed
potentially more appealing than now.

Yet the Lib Dems had spent the last five years ditching not one leader, but two
- and ended up with a relative unknown who seemingly was struggling to make much
impression.

Moreover, we saw during the manifesto launch on Wednesday, the party seemed
intent on fighting the campaign on the basis that it was supposedly taking the
most responsible approach to cutting the budget deficit - hardly, it seemed, the
voice of protest.

Still, even before Thursday night's leaders' debate there were signs that the
Lib Dems might finally be stirring.

In polls conducted wholly or mostly between Monday and Wednesday, the party's
average rating reached 21 per cent, up two points on the previous week, and as
high as it has been at any time since 2005. Yet the warning signs were ignored.
In the Granada studio David Cameron and Gordon Brown started, as ever, to slug
it out with each other.

Nick Clegg seized his chance, his appeal summed up by the one-liner: "The more
they argue with each other, the more they sound exactly the same."

All five instant polls of viewers' reactions found that far more people thought
Mr Clegg had performed best, than reckoned either of his rivals had. Moreover,
he scored above all on restoring trust in politics - that explosive issue that
has already helped to blow away many an incumbent MP's career.

Today's ICM poll for The Sunday Telegraph - much of it conducted just before the
TV debate, though some afterwards - confirms that Mr Clegg's success built upon
an already incoming tide.

At 27 per cent, the party's rating is up by six points on last week. The Tory
lead over Labour, meanwhile, is down from eight points to five. On these figures
the Tory leader cannot even be sure of winning the most seats, let alone
securing an overall majority.

Two patterns in particular seem to lie behind the Lib Dem surge. First, more of
those who said they voted Lib Dem in 2005 now say they will stick with the party
rather than switch to either the Tories or Labour. Second, the party is picking
up more support than before from those who said they did not vote last time.

In short, it has shored up its core support while appealing afresh to
uncommitted voters. This clearly raises questions about whether the surge will
prove sustainable. Previously uncommitted voters might be here today but easily
gone tomorrow, especially when their memory of Mr Clegg's TV performance begins
to fade.

But we have seen third party surges last to polling day. In the 1983 contest the
then SDP/Liberal Alliance added six points to its tally. Ukip came from nowhere
in the 2004 European election campaign, grabbing third place.

Still, there are two more debates and three weeks of campaigning left. Last week
ensured the spotlight is now on Mr Clegg and his party. But it remains to be
seen whether they wilt or prosper.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University.

TELEGRAPH JURY: THE VERDICT

We asked our Telegraph jury two questions:

1. What do you still need to see from the party leader you are thinking of
supporting before they "seal the  deal" with you?

2. Can you see Nick Clegg as a potential prime minister?

MELISSA NEWMAN, 52, Housewife

Lives: with husband and three children

Constituency: Guildford

Last time: Conservative

This time: Probably Con

1. David Cameron was a poor third to Gordon Brown in the TV debate. I'm not sure
what would seal the deal for  me. I'll probably be undecided up to voting day.

2.Yes, but the problem would be who would be in his Cabinet. I am hard-pushed to
think of any other Lib-Dems.  There is a distinct shortage of women.

PETER WOOD, 57, Economic consultant

Lives: with wife and two daughters

Constituency: Edinburgh South

Last time: Conservative

This time: Probably Con

1. I want to see a credible fiscal strategy for economic recovery and long-term
growth; proposals for mobilising the  investment needed in energy production and
transport, and a commitment to getting rid of useless regulation.

2. Not while he remains a Lib-Dem. If he was leading the Tories he would walk
in.

3. RACHEL CLARKE, 39, Marketing manager

Lives: alone Constituency: Brentford & Isleworth

Last time: Conservative

This time: Con/Lib Dem

1. Less politics; a commitment to listen to the electorate and amend the
political process. Less gloss, more hard work.

2. Yes. He'd bring a healthy dose of truth and reality - though it would all be
ground out of him if he did get  into power and had to make compromises.

CLIFFORD FORSYTH, 67, Retired IT technician

Lives: with his wife. Has two grown-up sons and one granddaughter

Constituency: Ruislip, Northwood & Pinner

Last time: Conservative

This time: Probably Ukip

1. We need some truth about the spending cuts from the party leaders. At the
moment they are dancing around it.

2. No. He doesn't have any experience, or great backing. His party doesn't have
the depth to form  a government.

DAVID PAGAN, 44, Finance manager

Lives: with wife and two children

Constituency: Solihull

Last time: Liberal Democrat

This time: Probably Lib-Dem

1. Not putting their foot in it. If someone is interested in politics they are
unlikely to change their mind in the last few  weeks of campaigning.

2. Unlikely as a prime minister, but maybe home secretary in a hung parliament.

SHELLY ASQUITH, 19, Marketing assistant

Lives: with parents

Constituency: Chelmsford

Last time: wasn't eligible

This time: Labour

1. More confidence from Gordon Brown and more visible support for him from his
Cabinet.

2. Yes, Clegg was very personable in the debate and has a good team behind him.

RELVE SPREAD, 30, Graduate student

Lives: with friends Constituency: Battersea

Last time: Labour

This time: Undecided

1. David Cameron could possibly seal the deal by giving up the finger-pointing
at Labour and doing more straight  talking.

2. Yes, he came across as genuine, sincere and trickfree. Refreshingly, his
responses were focused on the  country and its specific problems during the
debate.

Do you think it's a good idea for the public to run key public services - the
"big idea" of the Tory manifesto?

Yes 62%

No 30%

Do you support or oppose the UK military operation in Afghanistan?

Support 40%

Oppose 48%

ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,033 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 14-15 April 2010. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults.

May 28 Mar 28 Oct 29 Dec 3 Jan 7 Feb 4 Mar 14 Apr 5 Apr 11 Apr 18 0 10 20 30 40
50 >Voting intention* Commons seats 2010 2009 29 27 282 257 *ICM POLLS 34 Others
32 HOW THEY STAND Conservatives Labour Liberal Democrats Other Samantha Cameron
(pictured) Sarah Brown Miriam Clegg None of them Don't know 20% 15% 34% 23% 8%
326 Seats needed for majority 74  Which leader's wife has most impressed you on
the campaign trail ?

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IT makes no difference how [...];
Brief ly...

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 43 words


IT makes no difference how we vote at the General Election in May. The three
main parties are really one party representing identical vested interests in our
country. I think I'll be voting for a more honest fringe group like UKIP.

Aled Jones, Bridlington, E Yorks

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I've always voted Labour but don't know which way to turn this time

BYLINE: Ted Jeory; Nick Constable

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1150 words


AMID the gloom of Gordon Brown's Britain stands a new middle-class housing
estate where, against all the odds, the sun still shines for Labour.

If the Prime Minister could clone the rosy outlook of Knowle Drive, Exeter, to
the rest of suburban England, then even his dour demeanour might take on a more
cheery note.

Granted, locals' forgiving nature might have something to do with the weather,
as this city marginal has the highest sunshine quotient of any UK constituency,
but it's also partly thanks to the loyalty felt for its sitting MP.

Bicycling Ben Bradshaw, Mr Brown's Culture, Media and Sport Secretary, is well
liked in these parts.

He has held the seat since 1997 but with a notional majority of about 8,500, the
practising Christian believes he is the target of a Lord Ashcroft-funded Tory
challenge.

Hannah Foster, the Conservative challenger - and bookies' favourite - says
that's rubbish. She believes Mr Bradshaw is trying to "make people feel sorry
for him".

And some do. Many remember the homophobic abuse he endured during the 1997
campaign, while others applaud his outspoken stance on fox and stag hunting, a
position that earned him, literally, a shower of excrement from surrounding
shire folk.

He believes hunting is still an issue, so much so that he claims the Countryside
Alliance is busing in supporters from the hills of Devon that touch the
constituency's northern and western boundaries to boost the Tory campaign.

Yet he insists David Cameron has made a tactical mistake in pledging a free vote
to repeal the hunting ban.

He said: "The issue still plays strongly for me. A significant majority of
households in the city said hunting would sway their vote back to Labour even if
they were wavering towards Tory. It reminds them of how the Tories really
haven't changed."

Although a minority Lib Dem administration runs the city council, the party is
considered the outsider in the parliamentary race and Mr Bradshaw is encouraging
its supporters to vote tactically for him to keep the Tories out.

A bustling university city, which counts the Met Office and the NHS among its
leading employers, Exeter is still seen by many locals as a traditional county
seat. But an afternoon spent following Mr Bradshaw as he canvasses Election 2010
the residents of Knowle Drive, a street of semi-detached houses, reveals more
urban concerns.

The Government's record on public service cuts, anti-social behaviour, a
perceived "politically correct" culture and immigration feature prominently.

Exeter's ethnic population is small, with only 6.2 per cent of residents born
outside the UK. The religious breakdown is overwhelmingly Middle England, with
68.2 per cent describing themselves as Christian and only 0.8 per cent Muslim.

With unemployment at 2.4 per cent it doesn't sound like the typical profile of a
Labour stronghold. But the comparatively low level of owner-occupied homes - 64
per cent - and a large public services payroll partly explains the party's
hardcore vote.

According to a 2006 city council report, 14,500 people have jobs in health or
social work with a further 10,500 in public administration or defence.

Since these figures appeared a further 1,700 employees have started work at the
Met Office's headquarters.

Alongside these numbers the private sector offers comparatively few big players,
although BT, EDF Energy and the airline Flybe all boast workforces of more than
1,000.

Crime rates in Exeter are described as "average" by Devon and Cornwall Police.
Latest Home Office figures show an average 59 crimes per 1,000 residents across
the two counties against a national average of 83.

But tell that to the residents of Knowle Drive and they'll laugh out loud. In
this, Exeter's Exwick district, anti-social behaviour is a daily occurrence.

Postman Darren Rowbotham, 28, was taking his three-year-old son Josh for a walk
when he button-holed Mr Bradshaw about the issue.

"We have a big vandalism problem on this estate," he told the Labour man. "I get
kids outside my house, chucking stones at my windows and my car.

"When I confronted one gang I got ticked off by the police who said I should
leave it to them. But leaving it to the police doesn't change anything."

Afterwards he told us: "I voted for Ben Bradshaw last time and he's a good
constituency MP. He's promised to raise this problem with the police and he'll
probably get my vote.

"But Labour must do much more to tackle vandalism and thugs on estates like
this."

Traditional Labour voter and former printer David Dogherty, 65, had other
gripes. He said: "Immigration is what most riles me. It seems anyone can come to
this country yet they don't have to consider our laws and customs. We have this
culture where we dare not offend anyone.

"There's lots of talk about fairness and equality yet at the same time we put
our own people on the scrapheap.

"In my working life I was unemployed for about two weeks in my late Fifties. The
job centre staff were so unhelpful and unbelievably rude. They didn't want to
know me because of my age. Age discrimination is rife and it's a disgrace." His
wife Doreen, 72, added: "Both of us have always voted Labour in the past. But at
this election we don't know which way to turn."

Primary school teacher Sophie Green, 28, and her council officer fiance Brad
Hillson, 28, also both believe Labour have made mistakes, but remain optimistic
about the future, particularly the Government's education policies, and are big
fans of Mr Bradshaw.

Ms Green said: "You see him around on his bike and it's good to know that he
knows the area and takes an interest. We haven't had anybody else come round
here canvassing, so it's really appreciated."

Not everyone is so enthused. Richard Wadsworth, 48, who works in a police
control room, is possibly more typical of a Middle England voter when he said:
"Labour have cocked everything up. I moved out to South Africa with my parents
in 1974 and I remember them saying the reason they went was because there were
no opportunities here.

"Believe me, if I could do the same now, I would. I'm tending towards the
Tories, but Vince Cable also impressed me in his debate. I'll keep watching
before I make up my mind." At the local Costcutters store, 26-year-old manager
Ross Newham is a Ukip supporter.

"For me, the bigger picture is the huge wave of immigration from eastern
Europe," he said. "I just feel this country needs to take control of its future.
We can't leave it to Brussels.

"I have big concerns about many Labour policies. A hike in national insurance
may force us to lay off staff."

Some have described a defeat of Mr Bradshaw as the potential "Portillo moment"
of the 2010 election. While that may be over-egging it a touch, everyone is
agreed the contest is close.

As Tory candidate Ms Foster said: "It will go down to the wire and be on 1,000
votes either way."

'It will go down to the wire and hinge on 1,000 votes either way' HANNAH FOSTER

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPTIMISTIC: Sophie Green and fiance Brad Hillson are big fans of Ben
Bradshaw
CONCERNS: Ukip supporter Ross Newham
DEDICaTION: Popular Labour MP Ben Bradshaw on his bike and on the campaign trail
at the Knowle Drive estate last week
Pictures: RICHARD LAPPAS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Never mind the ballots

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 754 words


THE WEEK IN A NUTSHELL

The three main party leaders took part in Britain's first televised general
election debate, finally bringing the UK into line with modern democracies such
as Iran, Mongolia and Afghanistan (no, honestly, it's true)

Instant opinion polls - and the Liberal Democrats - said Nick Clegg was the
clear winner. Conservatives said David Cameron had won. Labour gave it to Gordon
Brown, except Alan Johnson, the home secretary who first said Clegg was the
winner but later changed his mind (possibly after spotting somebody from the
whips office striding purposefully towards him with a set of thumbscrews)

It was also manifesto week. Under Labour, hard-working families will have more
time to gaze at colourful sunsets caused by dodgy hot air. But under the Tories
they will be too busy with doit-yourself government, which means that everybody
buys in policies from Ikea and fails to put them together properly once they get
home. Under the Liberal Democrats, there will be many more televised debates
between party leaders. This is a new policy, added to the manifesto late on
Thursday night

BEST PRE-ELECTION GIVEAWAY

Who says the Daily Sport is only interested in busty girls? It does politics
too. The paper has thrown its support behind Anna Arrowsmith, Lib Dem candidate
in Gravesham, Kent, after discovering that she is Britain's most successful porn
director. 'This week the Sunday Sport will be bring you the 38-year-old's
hottest ever sex scenes on our free DVD,' pledges the paper. Two feature films
are on offer. In Uniform Behaviour, hunky 999 crews see the sense in capping
public sector pay rises at £400. Meanwhile, in Good Service, mechanics and
waitresses debate whether the Trident nuclear deterrent is necessary under the
current world order

QUOTES FROM THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL

'In private, I have a lot of jokes to tell' Gordon Brown insists he's only glum
and serious in public 'Good government costs less with the Conservatives' David
Cameron tries the supermarket approach to campaigning 'I decided to stand last
Thursday.

There was no candidate for Kensington.

Obviously, I am going to have to start canvassing' Lady Caroline Pearson of
Rannoch, wife of the UKIP leader, dabbles in politics 'It's all about choice
with the Conservatives' Sun journalist as refreshment in the form of beer, wine
and gin and tonic was offered at the end of the day on David Cameron's 'battle
bus' GOOD

CAMPAIGN Nick Clegg Obviously...

Twitter The networking site boasted more than 2,000 'tweets' every minute during
the leaders' debate. 'I must say I'm genuinely shocked by how weak David Cameron
is,' said Labour's Ed Balls. 'Clegg looks and sounds nervous,' said Tory Eric
Pickles. And the non-party view? 'Next week they should do it in the style of
Come Dine With Me,' said one twitterer

BAD CAMPAIGN

Bevanite Ellie In an attempt to pretend he is down with the kids, Brown was
introduced at Labour's manifesto launch by student Ellie Gellard, who blogs
under the name Bevanite Ellie. Was Ellie the wisest choice? Political opponents
were quick to point out that in 2008 she called for the prime minister to be
replaced by Johnson. 'In short, Brown,' she said. 'Get your coat, time's up'

THE NEW CAMPAIGN STRATEGY

Labour and UKIP last week unveiled a startling new election strategy - urging
voters to back somebody else. First, Brown said it was all right to vote Liberal
Democrat under certain circumstances, even though Lord Adonis had not long
before urged Liberal Democrats to vote Labour. (The transport secretary is
himself a former Liberal Democrat but now votes Labour, although presumably now
he'd be allowed to vote Liberal Democrat where Labour had no chance. Isn't
politics complicated?) If that wasn't confusing enough, UKIP leader Pearson told
his supporters to vote for other candidates if they were sufficiently
Eurosceptic. 'I don't think this has ever been done before,' he said

ODDEST REVELATIONS OF THE WEEK

That Brown is a fan of Glee, the American television series about a bunch of
college misfits who form a theatre group. It has also been revealed that, while
a student at Edinburgh University, he used to hog the communal iron and ironing
board. 'God knows what he was ironing,' says a fellow student of the famously
dishevelled prime minister. 'We never found out'

VOTE LABOUR OR THE BABY GETS IT ... Cherie Blair returned to the campaign trail
last week despite her less-than-convincing message: 'Even though he plotted for
years to put my darling Tony out of a job, vote Gordon. If you must'

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Battle of not being Bercow;
It seems like every eccentric in Middle England is standing against the Speaker,
writes AA Gill

BYLINE: AA Gill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1550 words


Buckingham is the pivot of the nation. You either despise its beady probity with
a Molotovlobbing loathing, or tearfully worship it as a symbol of this sceptred
isle that stands for Spitfires and Stannah stairlifts, pewter tankards, property
booms and knowing your place. It is England's Kosovo.

The small market town - the model for Candleford - sits in a broad, polite
swathe of genteel estates, mixed farms and dormitory commuting. It is the
seventh richest subregion in the European Union. It is also the constituency of
the Speaker of the House of Commons. The unwritten convention is that nobody
stands against the Speaker because he stands above the fray. Unless the Speaker
is John Bercow, who can barely stand above the counter of a sweet shop. Now
everybody is standing against him.

Bercow was a Conservative; now he's an independent. He was elected Speaker by
Labour as a cynical joke because the Tories hated him. They hated him because he
started off as right wing and then changed to become a feel-your-pain liberal.

Initially he was happy for us to follow him as he canvassed, but then he
equivocated, then mumbled, then coughed and put the phone down. He let us know
that he was only doing local press.

So I asked the Bucks Herald if it would employ me for the day and Eleanor
Campbell, the charming editor, said certainly, as long as I mentioned its
hustings a week tomorrow. So I'm writing this as a junior reporter - rural
Tintin - which I'm quite pleased about because I didn't start on provincial
papers like real journalists, and next week they say I can do a magistrates'
court and a junior school prizegiving. But Bercow still wasn't talking: to me,
the people of Buckingham or you. Never mind, there were plenty of other
contenders to chat to.

I went to Princes Risborough about 1,000 miles away - the constituency is the
size of Texas. It's a small market town, but most of the population have
departed to be estate agents and wine merchants in London leaving the mean
streets to the Lark Rise chapter of Hell's Mobility Scooters, who tool up and
down the main street terrorising charity shops with an incontinent menace.

I've come to meet John Stevens who is standing for the Buckinghamshire Campaign
for Democracy. I knew him in a previous existence, when he was head of a
Conservative campaign for the euro. You can only imagine the loneliness of that,
like being a proselytising vegetarian shark. Then he was an MEP and then a
liberal.

He greets me with the smile of a boy who expects to be bullied and the thickly
dandruffed shoulders of a chap who hasn't been hugged for a bit. What is he
standing for? Not being Bercow, apparently.

He has come up with a wonderful wheeze of having the Speaker followed by a giant
dolphin called Flipper. He waits for me to get the joke, eyebrows raised
expectantly.

"He flipped his house," he offers helpfully. "The expenses scandal." Ah, right.
Good joke.

I try to imagine interviewing Flipper. What's that, Flipper? "Click click click
click." He sold his house for a huge profit? "Click click click click." His wife
did what? "Click click click click." And there's some boy drowning? Sadly I
can't interview Flipper because his inner human has overheated - that's global
warming for you. But I do think every candidate should have a large mascot alter
ego following them around, a heraldic jester.

I asked Stevens what else he did. He is writing a biography of St Paul:
"Actually I'm much more interested in that. It turns out St Paul isn't exactly
who we think he was and nobody knows who the Galatians were."

Stevens is that very English thing: an authentic contrarian. "What will you do
if you win?" I ask. His eyes pop with shock. He has plainly never considered the
possibility.

I embark on the march back to Buckingham to meet Nigel Farage, MEP and candidate
for UKIP. He won't know who the Galatians were but he damned well won't want
them here.

On the way I look up the other candidates. Debbie Martin is Independent Not
Bercow, a 53-year-old unemployed retail assistant who has "the strong support of
my husband Derek".

Patrick Phillips, 74, Not Bercow, is offering himself as "the next best thing to
a Conservative".

The mind boggles. What is the next best thing to a Conservative - a vacuum
cleaner? A double-headed raspberry-flavoured dildo? A cat? He calls his wife
Jolly, so they're Pat and Jolly Phillips, with daughters Millie and Charlotte
and Rosie the labrador. I feel I've known them all my life.

Geoff Howard, Independent Not Bercow, was a magistrate, a school governor and
would like us to know that he successfully sued Thames Water for sending him the
wrong bill. He is also involved in something called Hellenic football, which
might be a euphemism.

Lynne Mozar is standing for the BNP due to the sudden withdrawal of Adam Worley,
who had family problems. Uncharitably, I imagined BNP family problems to be far
more salacious than everyone else's.

Then there is someone called Colin Dale, but when I try to look him up, I just
get Colindale, the unattractive London suburb, so he can blame his mother for
that. I suppose she could have called him Wensley.

Farage is hearty, hale and seedy, in a blue checked suit and electric blue tie.
He's a man whose character has been formed by a thousand snug bars. He has that
confidence that is the by-product of an enormous amount of alcohol and laughs
often and loudly.

He also has breath that could club a baby seal to death. Even across his desk,
every time something strikes him as funny there is a draught like Carnarvon
opening a pharaoh's tomb. The first rule of standing for parliament is: a
toothbrush is not just for Christmas.

His office is a shop front selling a range of amazingly naff UKIP memorabilia.
I'm particularly drawn, and then repelled, by a motley motel dressing gown with
pound signs on the cuff - just the thing for entertaining the Moldovan escort
before reporting her to the Home Office. And a tie, with a crank and a fly on
it, because Michael Howard called UKIP a bunch of cranks and gadflies.

"I'm lifetime president," Farage guffaws. I bet you are and you really need to
be politically impervious to go out sporting a rosette with a pound sign on it
after the expenses scandal. One of UKIP's MEPs, Tom Wise, is serving two years
for misuse of allowances.

"I'd never do that," says Farage, with surprising fury. "Never." Holding
Bercow's campaign leaflet up, "I could never do it," he repeats, with a
Somme-like gust of disgust. He is pointing at a photograph of the Speaker who is
smiling and hugging his wife.

What, never hug your wife? Marry someone twice your height? "No. Be photographed
with my children."

Right. Well, we all know what you're against, Nigel, but what is UKIP for?
"That's a very silly question. Of course we're for getting out of Europe and for
the end of indiscriminate immigration" etc, etc.

Isn't the England you're wanting to protect a vanished thing, a past place?
Aren't you really the Nostalgia party? "Absolutely not. No, no. Forward-looking,
modern." But forgive me for interrupting, you're sitting under a poster of
Winston Churchill. "Ah yes, actually that was from the last campaign." So not
really nostalgic, just haven't caught up yet. I ask him if we can go out and do
a bit of canvassing. He travels mob-handed, firing up a Rothman's, scattering
the mobility scooters. We stand outside Boots. "Very small, Buckingham," he
says. "Not many people around," implying that he usually attracts crowds. There
are only 12,000 inhabitants and everyone is at home. An elderly woman approaches
and asks if he's got a moral core. "Yes," he says emphatically.

"We've got a very large Christian group," making it sound like a penis.

"Good," she says. "What are you going to do with the Church of England?" "First
thing," he bellows, "we should get rid of the Archbishop of Canterbury. When he
said sharia law was not just necessary but inevitable, I thought: no, he's got
to go."

While he moves on to canvass tracksuited hopelessly bored youths, a man who
looks like an Edwardian farm labourer asks if I'd like an opinion. Without
waiting for an answer, he says: "I was the mayor of Buckingham." Was that before
or after you were Napoleon? "My family has lived here since 1086." Well, that
shows a congenital lack of imagination and ambition. It turns out that he really
was the mayor and a councillor and he is a farm labourer and he has been hedge
laying. "You know I'm Labour, right? Well, I've always found Bercow to be a
really good MP. Honestly. Write to him and he'll reply return of post and do
something about it. You should know. Here, he's a very good bloke."

As I walked through town, stopping people, going into shops, everybody without
exception says the same thing. What a very good constituency MP Bercow is. How
really concerned with local issues, how diligent, unassuming and hardworking.

I have never come across such consistent praise for a politician.

It would have been nice if he had shown the same diligence and courtesy to the
rest of the country and the press, local and national. I gave it one last go and
called his home number. A woman's voice that sounded like the spirit of the
1940s said: "This is an answering machine. Please call back later."

'' HE'S HAVING THE SPEAKER FOLLOWED BY A GIANT DOLPHIN CALLED FLIPPER

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 18, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IMMIGRATION;
THE SUBJECT NO POLITICIAN WANTS TO TALK ABOUT ; If the main parties refuse to
engage with voters' concerns, will their fringe rivals fill the gap? Richard
Woods reports

BYLINE: Richard Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1425 words


Outside Lincoln station a taxi driver improbably claiming his name is Richard
Wobblegob says: "Honesty, that's what we want. A bit of honesty."

He's sick of politicians, the slippery, grasping lot of 'em. Wobblegob is clear
about one thing, though: he won't vote Labour any more. "They're lying bastards.
And I wouldn't vote Conservative. Don't trust them, they're not for the working
man. Think I might go for UKIP."

After feckless MPs and economic shambles, Wobblegob's concern is immigration -
and UKIP's stance on the subject is pretty clear. It doesn't want any, at least
not for five years. Nor do the English Democrats or the BNP, who also have
candidates standing in Lincoln. For the past two elections, immigration has been
the issue that dare not speak its name. Anyone questioning the number of people
coming to live in Britain was crudely accused by Labour of racism; the Tories,
fearing rivers of electoral blood, ran scared.

Yet it is an issue the public wants debated. Today's Sunday Times/YouGov poll
shows that 53% of people believe there has not been enough discussion of
immigration in the campaign so far. And 76% believe the number of immigrants
coming to Britain is "far too high".

In many ways Lincoln, which has mirrored the national result in elections since
1974, is an island within an island. Moated by fenland, it has a castle and
cathedral on a hill, with attendant twee shops and ye olde Primark and Fat Face
in a smart shopping centre. Further out lie tattered estates of Victorian
terraces.

There isn't an investment banker for miles. Instead, lowpaid agricultural and
processing work predominates, pulling in thousands of migrants from eastern
Europe. Are they a boon or a problem? What do the locals think? The first person
I approach in the high street is a darkhaired young woman in sunglasses and
black jeans, accessorised with an infant in an allterrain buggy. Will you be
voting in the election, I ask? "Zorry. No spik Inglis. Rushan," she says. She's
from Latvia. Nearby is Pete, supervisor of the local public conveniences. He's
worried about Gordon Brown spraying money all over the place, partly on
migrants.

"I'm not opposed to people from abroad. If they come to work here, that's all
right," he says. "It's those that come across and sprout at taxpayers' expense
that are a problem. Why should they be allowed to do that?" Others suspect the
influx of eastern Europeans has depressed wages and snaffled jobs. The obvious
person to ask is a young blonde woman hovering outside the Staffline employment
agency. Are immigrants taking jobs from locals? "I don't know," says Sandra, 19.
"I'm from Lithuania." Turns out she's the receptionist in the employment agency.
She works five days a week there, does two days waitressing and studies
animation in her spare time. The British, largely unacquainted with pay rates in
Vilnius, are not keen to compete. At Richardson's secondhand car lot, in the
poorer end of town, a twentysomething called Simon is attending to a silver
Vauxhall. He's in little doubt about the impact of migrants: "It's got to affect
some people, some jobs. Supply and demand, innit."

Is he going to vote? "Possibly. Possibly Tories. I've had enough of Labour."

Then this Mr Ordinary Bloke, with no obvious tattoos or mental deficiencies,
says without any prompting: "Or we could all vote BNP. I'd be happy to vote for
them. Everyone's so p***** off it makes the BNP worth voting for."

Labour has itself to blame for the suppuration of such sentiments.

Official figures show that it let immigration rip once it took power. In the
early 1990s, long-term net immigration rarely rose above 50,000 a year but in
1998, after Labour's first year in office, it leapt to 140,000 and hit 174,000
in 2001. It peaked at 245,000 a year before falling slightly. The latest figures
show that 590,000 people arrived to live in Britain in 2008; net immigration
only fell to 163,000 because 427,000 other people emigrated.

Since 1997 about 3m immigrants have arrived and the population is now 61m. The
Office for National Statistics projects that the population will go on rising to
70m, with 70% of the increase caused by immigration.

Beneath the headline figures, the make-up of the country is rapidly changing. In
2008, for example, many more British citizens emigrated than returned to the UK,
and many more EU, Commonwealth and other foreign nationals arrived than left.
More than 500,000 arrivals in 2008 were non-British citizens.

The impacts are hotly disputed.

For years Labour claimed migrants brought economic benefits. More people plus
more work generally means the overall economy grows. But is anyone better off
after taking into account the increase in population? According to a recent
study by Oxford Economics, GDP per capita did rise during Labour's first two
terms, but it fell in the third. GDP per capita is now lower in real terms than
in 2005. Even The Economist, a fan of cheap and mobile labour, concluded last
week that "there is little sign that wealth per person increased much" as a
result of immigration.

The rise in the number of foreign-born people has almost matched the rise in the
number of jobs, according to some calculations, leading to claims that 98% of
new jobs have gone to migrants. Although this is disputed, the Trades Union
Congress concedes that 50% of jobs created since 1997 have probably gone to
non-UK nationals. Services have also come under pressure in areas with large
numbers of new arrivals. Council leaders in Slough, Peterborough and Boston have
complained that local budgets and amenities are under "enormous strain" because
official figures do not reflect their real populations.

Doctors, hospitals and schools all face challenges. In more than 300 primary
schools, 70% of pupils have English as a second language, according to
Migrationwatch UK, a group that campaigns for greater control of immigration. In
January two independent councillors from Peterborough wrote to Gordon Brown
expressing their concerns over the pressure on schools in their area. They
received no reply.

The election candidates in Lincoln gathered on Wednesday evening for a public
debate at a hotel on the outskirts of town. After skirmishes over local
measures, the meeting burst into life with a question on immigration. What
should be done about it? The UKIP candidate, Nick Smith, at least had the merit
of honesty; at one point he likened himself to a "prat". Nevertheless, he won
applause from a minority for wanting to freeze immigration.

The English Democrats candidate, Ernest Charles, had a rum-barrel chest and
Pugwash beard and, even before he announced it, you knew he had spent 36 years
in the Royal Navy. When ill-informed on a topic (not uncommon) his policy was
straightforward: repel immigrants. He'd scuttle the country rather than let it
fall into enemy hands. More applause from the minority.

The Liberal Democrat, Reginald Shore, was a likeable man with good intentions
and a policy spun from 100% pure new wool. He was very definitely for and
against immigration, under certain circumstances, up to a point.

With the BNP absent, that left Gillian Merron, the sitting Labour MP, and her
rival Karl McCartney of the Conservatives.

Merron, an MP since 1997 and a minister since 2006, has been part of the
government that presided over record immigration.

All she could do was bluster about Labour's belated attempts at control being
"firm but fair", as Brown himself did in Thursday's television debate.

By contrast, McCartney was able to sound clear on this issue. "The Conservative
party has said there will be a limit on immigrants," he said. Not a ban, a
limit. It seemed to get general approval.

In a seat the Tories should capture with a 4.8% swing, McCartney ought to be a
winner, even though he has something of the 1980s night about him - a hint of
estate agency, perhaps - that seems to make floating voters suspicious. Will the
fringe parties detract from the Conservative vote, especially on immigration?
It's not that simple, according to Colin Rallings of Portsmouth University. Yes,
UKIP does tend to take votes from the Tories, but at the same time the BNP often
takes votes from disaffected working-class Labour supporters. Both main parties
are likely to be squeezed by fringe groups, with neither gaining a clear
advantage.

Since both the Conservatives and Labour, it seems, are happy to avoid
campaigning on immigration, Wobblegob may have to wait for his honesty. Once
again immigration may end up the big issue the main parties would prefer to
ignore.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Migrant workers working in the fields in Lincolnshire
ROY EALDEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Briefly...;
LETTERS

BYLINE: Edited by LIZ JAMES

SECTION: LETTERS; 63

LENGTH: 270  words


IN response to your story "Have royal collectibles finally lost their lustre?"
(Sunday Express, April 11), I think the reason behind it is a declining public
affection for the current Royal Family. Its members used to be ambassadors for
our country but these days they are better known for their affairs, scandals and
loutish conduct from the younger royals.

Ellen Gregory, Maidstone, Ken

BY adding millions of people to the largely Labour-voting public sector
workforce and benefits-dependent sections of society, Labour has engineered a
structural change in the electorate that makes it very difficult for the Tories
to achieve the lead over Labour they need to form a majority government. The
only way to return to a democracy is for all people making their living from the
state to forgo their vote.

John Redmond, By e-mail

I THOUGHT the picture caption "Charles 'n' Di china is virtually worthless" on
your royal memorabilia story (April 11) was very apt, considering that was how
Charles viewed his wedding vows. I think the crown should skip over him and go
straight to William.

Mark Meehan, Teddington, Midd x

IT makes no difference how we vote at the General Election in May. The three
main parties are really one party representing identical vested interests in our
country. I think I'll be voting for a more honest fringe group like UKIP.

Aled Jones, Bridlington, E Yorks

WHY are all three TV debates focused exclusively on the party leaders? Why not a
debate involving the Foreign Secretary, Home Secretary and counterparts?

I also suspect David Dimbleby would be far better as moderator.

Robert Purse, Fenny Compton, Warks

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UK needs a vote for independence;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 67

LENGTH: 114  words


I AGREE with Alan Smith's letter (Your letters, April 18) that we should end
overseas aid while we are struggling. But do readers know we also contribute to
the EU's overseas aid budget from the billions of pounds Brussels continually
takes from British taxpayers? Voting Labour, Conservative or Lib Dem at the
election will not put a stop to this reckless waste of taxpayers' money because
all three haven't the guts to say no to Brussels.

If the three main parties won't take us out of the EU then we must do it for
ourselves by voting for UKIP, the Socialist Labour Party, the BNP or the English
Democrats, all of whom want the return of UK independence.

Roger Arnold, Herne Bay, Kent

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 18, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

I've always voted Labour but don't know which way to turn this time

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory and Nick Constable

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 1134  words


AMID the gloom of Gordon Brown's Britain stands a new middle-class housing
estate where, against all the odds, the sun still shines for Labour.

If the Prime Minister could clone the rosy outlook of Knowle Drive, Exeter, to
the rest of suburban England, then even his dour demeanour might take on a more
cheery note.

Granted, locals' forgiving nature might have something to do with the weather,
as this city marginal has the highest sunshine quotient of any UK constituency,
but it's also partly thanks to the loyalty felt for its sitting MP.

Bicycling Ben Bradshaw, Mr Brown's Culture, Media and Sport Secretary, is well
liked in these parts.

He has held the seat since 1997 but with a notional majority of about 8,500, the
practising Christian believes he is the target of a Lord Ashcroft-funded Tory
challenge.

Hannah Foster, the Conservative challenger - and bookies' favourite - says
that's rubbish. She believes Mr Bradshaw is trying to "make people feel sorry
for him".

And some do. Many remember the homophobic abuse he endured during the 1997
campaign, while others applaud his outspoken stance on fox and stag hunting, a
position that earned him, literally, a shower of excrement from surrounding
shire folk.

He believes hunting is still an issue, so much so that he claims the Countryside
Alliance is busing in supporters from the hills of Devon that touch the
constituency's northern and western boundaries to boost the Tory campaign.

Yet he insists David Cameron has made a tactical mistake in pledging a free vote
to repeal the hunting ban.

He said: "The issue still plays strongly for me. A significant majority of
households in the city said hunting would sway their vote back to Labour even if
they were wavering towards Tory. It reminds them of how the Tories really
haven't changed."

Although a minority Lib Dem administration runs the city council, the party is
considered the outsider in the parliamentary race and Mr Bradshaw is encouraging
its supporters to vote tactically for him to keep the Tories out.

A bustling university city, which counts the Met Office and the NHS among its
leading employers, Exeter is still seen by many locals as a traditional county
seat. But an afternoon spent following Mr Bradshaw as he canvasses the residents
of Knowle Drive, a street of semi-detached houses, reveals more urban concerns.

The Government's record on public service cuts, anti-social behaviour, a
perceived "politically correct" culture and immigration feature prominently.

Exeter's ethnic population is small, with only 6.2 per cent of residents born
outside the UK. The religious breakdown is overwhelmingly Middle England, with
68.2 per cent describing themselves as Christian and only 0.8 per cent Muslim.

With unemployment at 2.4 per cent it doesn't sound like the typical profile of a
Labour stronghold. But the comparatively low level of owner-occupied homes - 64
per cent - and a large public services payroll partly explains the party's
hardcore vote.

According to a 2006 city council report, 14,500 people have jobs in health or
social work with a further 10,500 in public administration or defence.

Since these figures appeared a further 1,700 employees have started work at the
Met Office's headquarters.

Alongside these numbers the private sector offers comparatively few big players,
although BT, EDF Energy and the airline Flybe all boast workforces of more than
1,000.

Crime rates in Exeter are described as "average" by Devon and Cornwall Police.
Latest Home Office figures show an average 59 crimes per 1,000 residents across
the two counties against a national average of 83.

But tell that to the residents of Knowle Drive and they'll laugh out loud. In
this, Exeter's Exwick district, anti-social behaviour is a daily occurrence.

Postman Darren Rowbotham, 28, was taking his three-year-old son Josh for a walk
when he button-holed Mr Bradshaw about the issue.

"We have a big vandalism problem on this estate, " he told the Labour man. "I
get kids outside my house, chucking stones at my windows and my car.

"When I confronted one gang I got ticked off by the police who said I should
leave it to them. But leaving it to the police doesn't change anything."

Afterwards he told us: "I voted for Ben Bradshaw last time and he's a good
constituency MP. He's promised to raise this problem with the police and he'll
probably get my vote.

"But Labour must do much more to tackle vandalism and thugs on estates like
this."

Traditional Labour voter and former printer David Dogherty, 65, had other
gripes. He said: "Immigration is what most riles me. It seems anyone can come to
this country yet they don't have to consider our laws and customs. We have this
culture where we dare not offend anyone.

"There's lots of talk about fairness and equality yet at the same time we put
our own people on the scrapheap.

"In my working life I was unemployed for about two weeks in my late Fifties.

The job centre staff were so unhelpful and unbelievably rude. They didn't want
to know me because of my age. Age discrimination is rife and it's a disgrace."

His wife Doreen, 72, added: "Both of us have always voted Labour in the past.

But at this election we don't know which way to turn."

Primary school teacher Sophie Green, 28, and her council officer fiance Brad
Hillson, 28, also both believe Labour have made mistakes, but remain optimistic
about the future, particularly the Government's education policies, and are big
fans of Mr Bradshaw.

Ms Green said: "You see him around on his bike and it's good to know that he
knows the area and takes an interest.

We haven't had anybody else come round here canvassing, so it's really
appreciated."

Not everyone is so enthused. Richard Wadsworth, 48, who works in a police
control room, is possibly more typical of a Middle England voter when he said:

"Labour have cocked everything up. I moved out to South Africa with my parents
in 1974 and I remember them saying the reason they went was because there were
no opportunities here.

"Believe me, if I could do the same now, I would. I'm tending towards the
Tories, but Vince Cable also impressed me in his debate. I'll keep watching
before I make up my mind." At the local Costcutters store, 26-year-old manager
Ross Newham is a Ukip supporter.

"For me, the bigger picture is the huge wave of immigration from eastern Europe,
" he said. "I just feel this country needs to take control of its future.

We can't leave it to Brussels.

"I have big concerns about many Labour policies. A hike in national insurance
may force us to lay off staff."

Some have described a defeat of Mr Bradshaw as the potential "Portillo moment"
of the 2010 election. While that may be over-egging it a touch, everyone is
agreed the contest is close.

As Tory candidate Ms Foster said: "It will go down to the wire and be on 1,000
votes either way."

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CONCERNS: Ukip supporter Ross Newham
OPTIMISTIC: Sophie Green and fiance Brad Hillson are big fans of Ben Bradshaw
DEDICATION: Popular Labour MP Ben Bradshaw on his bike and on the campaign trail
at the Knowle Drive estate last week

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 18, 2010 Sunday 10:47 AM GMT

Thoughts from the campaign trail

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 252 words


The Darenth Valley is thick with lavender. The gardens of Kent and Surrey are a
polychromatic blaze. The April sun is warm. As Browning wistfully puts it:

...the lowest boughs and the brushwood sheafRound the elm-tree bole are in tiny
leaf,While the chaffinch sings on the orchard boughIn England-now!

Who, in such a place and season, can be disheartened by something as trifling as
an opinion poll?

I've been campaigning solidly over the past three days inEast Surrey, Sevenoaks,
Dartford, Gravesham, Stittingbourne & Sheppey and Rochester & Strood (where UKIP
has patriotically withdrawn its candidate - a subject to which I'll return
later). I still think the Conservatives will win, though it'll be no picnic.

The April sunshine has done little to lift my constituents' mood. Many voters
feel angry, taken-for-granted, let-down, ignored.They're bitter about the
parliamentary expenses revelations, furious about Labour'seconomic
mismanagement, quick with local examples of government waste. The number one
issue on the doorstep, in Kent at least, is immigration, which has become a sort
of shorthand for the detachment of the entire political class.

I don't believe people are remotely in the mood to give their votes to the
Euro-fanatical, amnesty-for-illegals, anti-nuke, hopey-changey Lib Dems. Not, at
any rate, in the numbers that count. If we are truly ready to elect a party
which is content to see Britain as a province of the EU, I have badly misjudged
my countrymen.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 1022 words


ELECTION, WHAT ELECTION? MANDY'S HAVING A BALL

AT THE big TV debate in Manchester on Thursday night, Lord Mandelson sidled by
and imparted a dirty secret: he likes David Cameron.

'Come off it, Peter,' I said. 'You've been reported this week as calling the
Tory leader "toffee-nosed" and " trivial and glib".' His lordship assumed an
expression of pained innocence. He claimed to have been misquoted.

He stressed that his personal relationship with Mr Cameron was excellent. When
he met him he found him amusing, quick, gregarious, forthright. 'He is lively
company and witty. He hits back. I like that. Did I call him "toffee-nosed"? If
I did, I think you would be justified in saying that, coming from me, that was
pretty rich.' Indeed.

I have not known Lord Mandelson so chatty and chucklesome for yonks. Earlier
that day he had licked an ice cream with almost Benny Hill theatricality, right
in front of the TV cameras. Now he talked happily about having been ballroom
dancing with a woman in Blackpool -- an event which was caught by the grateful
Fleet Street lensmen, and surely watched with interest by the selectors of the
next celebrity dancing TV show.

'She was, how do you you say, a spiritualist healer,' said Lord Mandelson. 'Or
is it spiritual healer?' We agreed that it would take a formidable-talent to
mend parts of the Mandelson spirit. More laughter.

It is one of the more reliable rules of British politics that Peter Mandelson
never does anything without thinking it through, from every angle, at least
three times. Maybe he is still playing mind games with us, hoping we will
consider him a pussycat.

Or maybe he has given up the devil worship. Maybe he has concluded that Gordon
Brown's valiant battle is lost. Maybe he has accepted the beginning of the end.

VOLCANIC cloud? And there was me thinking John Prescott had simply been to the
Indian restaurant again. But the situation is without doubt grave. Two more TV
debates to go, and we cannot even fly out of the country. Pass the cyanide.

SNAPSHOT OF THE LIFE OF BRIAN

ONE of old Fleet Street's most convivial figures, Brian Dowling, has written a
terrific autobiography. Dowling worked on Picture Post in the 1950s. With
photographer Bert Hardy he organised one of the shots of the era -- two girls on
a railing by Blackpool beach (right). Hardy pressed the Box Brownie button, but
it was Dowling who found the lovelies and persuaded them to pose.

In Riding The Tiger he recalls another incident. Late one afternoon in March
1969 he found himself in the bar of the Garrick club alongside Judge Melford
Stevenson.

The judge had just sentenced the Kray twins. 'As his sipped his ginandmixed I
ventured: "You must have had a good day, Judge." "Good day!" he said. "I'll say
so. Those bastards. They only spoke two sentences of truth in the whole trial:
one was that their defending counsel was a slob, and the other was that I was
totally biased against them."'

It's just as well Brian kept this under his bowler hat (he is one of London's
last bowler aficionados) while the Krays were alive. Otherwise they might have
had grounds for an appeal.

A MASTERLY EXAMPLE FOR THE BBC

RADIO 4 Controller Mark Damazer's departure to become Master of St Peter's
College, Oxford, was a stylish withdrawal from the frenzied fray. Among his BBC
colleagues there may be a sense of 'drat -- wish I'd thought of that'. This
column has long argued that Oxbridge Masterships are a neglected, honourable
escape route for pressured bods at the top of public life. Politicians often
used to retire to a Master's lodge. Now they try to become lobbyists.

Mr Damazer, an agreeable fellow with just a hint of the George Smileys, already
has a donnish manner. St Peter's is not the jazziest of colleges and its cellar
is limited, but any BBC mandarin knows how to correct that.

The Visitor (ie top dignitary) of St Peter's is the Bishop of Liverpool. He just
happens to be a presenter of Radio 4's Thought For The Day. How fortunate for Mr
Damazer that he did not yield to pressure from atheists and drop Thought
recently.

Memo to any Government ministers hoping to emulate Mr Damazer: the next Oxford
head of house to retire (in summer 2011) is the Principal of Mansfield College.
The juicier provostship of Worcester College will also be falling vacant then.

WHITEHALL has been told not to talk to MPs during the election campaign. In
previous campaigns MPs have continued to work for their constituents. This time
the Department of Work and Pensions and the Child Support Agency are refusing
even to talk to MPs. Is this about preserving official impartiality? Or is it
simply driven by official indolence?

LADY PEARSON, wife of Ukip leader Lord Pearson, may pick up the dog vote. She is
organising a fashion show at the House of Lords. It will raise money for Canine
Partners, a charity for guide dogs.

Lady Pearson herself has something of the well-groomed Afghan about her. 'Black
Rod has agreed to let us have the fashion show at the Lords,' she barks. 'I did
ask if the girls could wear Brazilian bikinis but it was vetoed by him. I am
sure if their lordships could have voted on the matter it would have received a
unaniminous vote in favour. Canine partners will be participating on the
catwalk/ dogwalk to show how clever they are. It will be a huge doggie affair.'
Let's hope none of the participants mistakes an ermine collar for a dead rabbit.

MIGHT there soon be gratifying news for Derek Simpson, joint head of the Unite
trade union? Mr Simpson is due to retire in December.

Some think it likely that the not unthirsty Simpson will soon be made

Apeer. Any suggestion that such an elevation was linked to Unite's generous
donations to the Labour Party would be most unjustified, I am sure, and swiftly
attract the attentions of defamation scriveners. We would not want that.

WHAT splendid hypocrites the Liberal Democrats are. This week their manifesto
stated the intention to prevent political donations in excess of 610,000. Can
this be the same Liberal Democrats who have pocketed millions of pounds from
those retiring violets at the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust? Certainly could be,
folks!

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Floating voters' are idiots - must we £ive them so much attention?

BYLINE: Robert Webb

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 786 words


Me being me and you being you, I was hoping to avoid politics until we got to
know each other a bit better. Imagining The Daily Telegraph as a well-organised
but slightly awkward dinner party, I wanted to engage the friendly stranger
sitting just to my right with amusing theatrical anecdotes or, at least, some
gauche observations about the weather. Politics, on the other hand, would
definitely not be the first choice of conversation; neither would it be the
second, third or tenth.

If we got into trouble - if, for example, you'd already heard my troubling story
of Dame Peggy Ashcroft's hairdryer and were unimpressed by my "what's the actual
definition of sleet, anyway?" musings - then we would still have a long way to
go before I said: "So anyway, tell me exactly about your sexual preferences,
religious beliefs and political values."

Oh my word, no. This is not Australia, I am no longer a student and neither of
us is currently drunk. There'll be none of that loose, self-exposing,
embarrassing chat here, thank you kindly. Begonias, my friend. That's the
British way forward. We'll talk of begonias and petunias, not manifestos and
ovaries.

But for some reason - I can't quite put my finger on it - there just seems to be
something in the air this week that has about it the catnip of politics. For
that reason - whatever it might be - I find myself nodding calmly at the last
thing you said; allowing a pause to open up; folding and smoothing my napkin
reflectively, and looking up at the ceiling for inspiration: one of us is going
to have to broach this fantastically difficult subject and, almost in
acknowledgement of how weirdly I'm now behaving, you seem to have gone all
quiet. I'll get on with it.

I have always been and probably always will be a supporter of The Labour Party.
I don't expect for a picosecond that you're remotely surprised: I basically said
as much on these pages a couple of weeks ago. (You must like my assumption that
you've been reading with the implied attention. I insist that you like that.)
Still, there's a difference between, on the one hand, saying "look at my
beautiful 99 ice-cream" and, on the other, shoving it violently up your nose,
yelling: "Eat it. Eat the Flake. It's the best bit. Eat it down."

No, the thing that interests me most about the election is this: almost all of
the people I know - on the Left and Right and including myself - decided how to
vote in this election, basically many, many years ago. But the whole thing
swings on exactly the opposite sort of person.

I refer, of course, to those enormously important individuals: the people who
don't know. Ohh... (alienin-pain noise).

Who on earth are these "floating voters"? Why must we give so much attention to
these idiotic "undecideds"? Un-what? You're over 18 and you went to school and
you can read and write and you've seen the news and you know the odd bit of
modern history and you're... what? You let the "creatives" from marketing
companies call you "undecided"? It just seems that those of us who were
interested in politics when we were teenagers found ourselves to be built a
certain way. For the likes of us, whether Lefties or Righties (there is also
such a thing as a born Lib Dem but, in my experience, they tend to head straight
for the clergy), that was basically that.

No, this isn't ideal and I don't for a second ignore its brazen subjectivity. It
is not, for example, immediately obvious to me why I am a Labour supporter. More
than half of my family are Tories; I grew up in a very conservative couple of
villages in the largely Conservative county of Lincolnshire; I attended an
excellent but hugely conservative grammar school, surrounded by the conservative
sons and daughters of local Conservative councillors, solicitors, farmers,
retailers, policemen and RAF officers.

So at this point, aged about 15, I was basically a revolutionary communist. OK,
maybe it is obvious: there is such a thing as rebellion. But most of the other
boys and girls at that school didn't see any need for rebellion: it was a nice
school and they were happy. I was happy too; I just also wanted to burn the
place down.

Where were we? Yes, you introduced yourself and then I insisted on talking about
politics. I'm so sorry, that was very boring of me. I'm glad it's you, though.
The guy opposite has that sweaty, embittered look about him that makes you think
that he'd love to vote BNP but has only the bravery for Ukip. Let's talk about
him, shall we? Oh darn, I've run out of words again. Never mind, there's always
next week. He seems to be shouting rather vulgarly about "Britishness", though.
Who invited him?

"We should be talking about begonias, not nanifestos. Th it's the British way
forward "

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nice Nick beats the nasty parties;
ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 588 words


As Dave, in particular, has learnt in the past 36 hours or so, the big problem
with the "historic" leaders' television debate was that it was preceded by
expectations. Gordon Brown, who I thought was mad to agree to take part, had
everything to lose, and jolly nearly lost it after a wooden, aggressive, boring
performance; Dave was expected to wipe the floor with him; and as for Nick
Clegg, who was he, other than Vince Cable's valet de chambre?

We now know exactly who Nick Clegg is: he is Mr Integrity, the nation's
sweetheart, the only honest man in politics. I had thought the public were a bit
brighter than that, and would see through his pious, sanctimonious, oleaginous,
not-meguv display of cynical self-righteousness: but they didn't. And for that
we can only blame the two inadequates with whom he had the good fortune to go in
front of the cameras: for they were shocking.

It may be argued that even had they not been shocking, Nice Nick would have
sailed home. The public generally detest politicians. There are fears that the
turnout will be alarmingly low, on the grounds that few people standing are
worth endorsing, though I remain to be convinced about that. Nice Nick's party
has not been in power since 1915. What is wrong with our politics is deemed,
largely correctly, to be the fault of the parties, led by the worst prime
minister in living memory and Dave. Nice Nick saw this, and capitalised upon it
ruthlessly.

Mr Brown's impersonation of a robot, and his projection of all the charm of a
caravan site in February, were pretty predictable: but the place where hair was
really being torn out yesterday was around poor old Dave. The attempt by this
trust-funded Old Etonian (and Old Bullingdonian) to come over as Mr Ordinary was
rather tragic: if we have to hear much more about his children's state school
and his family's experience of the NHS, some of us will need medical attention
of our own.

But where he really failed, as could easily have been predicted, was when the
economy came up. Let us remember one fact above all others: that Gordon Brown
has presided over the greatest economic catastrophe in our country since 1931.
And yet, when this subject was raised, the audience regarded his promises on how
to put things right as positive and Dave's as negative. For Mr Brown to come out
on top in this is like the proverbial onelegged man winning the arse-kicking
contest.

It defies belief. Yet he prevailed because the Tories, who went along with
Labour's dire economic policy ("sharing the proceeds of growth") until banks
started going bust, have absolutely no credibility on economic matters. Their
policies are, except in one or two details, identical to those of Labour. And
when you have a real thing and an imitation to choose from, you choose the real
thing.

It is a long haul from winning a beauty contest to winning a general election,
and one imagines Nice Nick won't do that. But Dave now goes into next week's
bout as the underdog. Mr Brown can't really get any worse, and has few
expectations riding upon him: but if Dave underperforms again, he will be in
very serious trouble. To land five years in No 10, he does not just need to
squash an already imploding Labour Party: he needs to win a pile of seats from
the Lib Dems. On last night's show, that is going to be a tall order: and if he
fouls up again, the Lib Dems might even start winning seats from him. Still, it
could have been worse. Just imagine if he had had to debate with Ukip, too,
about the real meaning of conservatism.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Integrity (allegedly)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Election 2010 Week Two How it unfolded

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 347 words


Flunkey of the week HOSPITAL GAFFE Jointly awarded to the two hapless Labour
press officers who held open doors for their leader at a Leeds hospital,
providing the best visual gaffe of the campaign so far

Twit of the week ERIC PICKLES Conservative chairman, who meant to say that "My
shirts come from M&S" but missed a vital consonant, lending his message a
distinctly scatalogical tone

Dancing queen of the week LORD MANDELSON The snake-hipped Business Secretary
tripped the light fantastic at a Blackpool tea-dance. Ladies, control yourselves

Awkward phrase of the week THE'BLACK MAN.-' "I was in Plymouth recently, and a
40-year-old black man made the point to me..." David Cameron brings race into a
discussion of immigration during the leaders' debate

Overused phrase of the week 'I AGREE WITH NICK' Used by Gordon Brown at least
four times during the leaders' debate as the Prime Minister sought to form an
anti-Cameron alliance with the Lib Dems

Opportunist marketing move of the week CAFEPRESS.CO.UK Online retailer that by
yesterday morning was selling T-shirts bearing the phrase "I agree with Nick."

U-turn of the week ALASTAIR CAMPBELL The Labour spinner, right, declared in the
opening minute of the leaders' debate that Nick Clegg was "low on energy".
Ninety minutes later, he conceded that Mr Clegg had "done well on style"

Reyoltingty precocious political hack of the week ELLIE GELLARD The 20-year-old
Labour activist who introduced Gordon Brown at the party's manifesto launch. Get
a life, girl

Brutally effective slogan of the week 'SOD THE LOT The UK Independence Party
starts its general election campaign with a plague on all the mainstream parties

Pompous broadcaster of the week ADAM BOULTON of Sky News, who issued a press
release declaring "David Cameron needs to be careful" after the Tory leader
questioned the rules of the leaders' debates, one of which Mr Boulton will
moderate next week

Mixed message of the week VOTE LABOUR' Lord Pearson of Rannoch, Ukip leader,
gives his message to voters in Stroud, where his party is supporting David Drew,
a Labour eurosceptic

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE BIG PARTIES ARE FAILING TO LAY A GLOVE ON CONFIDENT UKIP

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 398 words


SUPPORTERS of the United Kingdom Independence Party have good reason to have a
spring in their step today. Britain's fourth party has been having a terrific
campaign.

Certainly the metropolitan political elite and its media allies have found much
to scoff at but the louder they laugh the more appealing UKIP and its leading
lights are to voters.

Take the party's "Sod the Lot" election poster. Clearly it was brash but it also
captured the feelings of millions. Then there was UKIP leader Lord Pearson's
interview on the Today programme.

UKIP detractors loved hearing him being bludgeoned by the professional
aggression of John Humphrys but the interview will not have lost UKIP any votes
as Pearson displayed oodles of the "gentleman amateur" charm that serves Boris
Johnson so well.

At UKIP's manifesto launch he disarmingly admitted to sometimes losing track of
all the "squillions and the billions and the trillions" of public spending.
Again the political class leapt on it. one Tory MP told me it had been "a car
crash". I don't think so. The point that the Government spends vastly too much
of our money stands. other metropolitan elitists turned their fire on Nigel
Farage, the party's former leader who is trying to topple Commons Speaker John
Bercow in Buckingham.

The gloriously politically incorrect Farage has made a pub crawl the centrepiece
of his campaign. He aims to have at least a half of bitter in every pub in the
constituency. Cultivating the air of the cheerful bounder he has also become
bulletproof against the onslaught of the political class.

UKIP has a slate of appealing right-wing policies including a five-year freeze
on immigration and plans for new grammar schools. This week's Daily
Express/opinion poll found support for it running at five per cent. That may not
sound much but it is a major success in a first-past-the-post system that serves
as a formidable barrier to entry to new parties.

At his manifesto launch David Cameron said the Conservatives are now firmly
established as a centrist party. "We have returned to the centre ground of
British politics and that is where we will stay," he said.

That leaves a vast space to the right for a party appealing to voters passionate
about law and order, defending sovereignty, stopping mass immigration and
radically reducing taxes. Whether they win any seats on May 6 or not UKIP's
long-term prospects are rosy.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

How to take care of a problem called clegg

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 767 words


AT THE end of the second week of the election campaign there is a sense of
unease among the Conservative high command. David Cameron's pitch for Downing
Street is not yet wilting but the extent of the challenge facing him has become
dauntingly clear. He must try to turn 200 seats into nearly 350 in a single
election under constituency boundaries that favour Labour, with a chunk of his
right flank having defected to UKIP and with trust in mainstream politics at
rock bottom.

To that list of difficulties we must add another after Thursday's inaugural
leaders' election debate: a third party that boasts not only a Treasury
spokesman who commands widespread respect and affection but also a leader who is
suddenly flavour of the month. And at this point in the political cycle a leader
only has to be flavour of the month for a month.

To redeploy the wounding soundbite he threw at Tony Blair, Cameron was the
future once. But now Nick Clegg seems the fresher, more hopeful, less tainted
figure in the eyes of many voters. Clegg has become the insurgent, Cameron, for
all his zealous reform during the expenses scandal, another incumbent of the
political establishment.

A further setback is that Cameron's manifesto, lauded by most political pundits
including this one, has clearly not connected with voters as he would have
hoped. It is not that the "power to the people" slogan he deployed was backed up
by too little substance but arguably that it was backed up by too much.

More choice over public services was the element that voters liked. But the idea
of being compelled to take more responsibility for them, to actually "join the
government of Britain", has sailed over the heads of some voters and annoyed
others. It has been received not as an act of laudable radicalism but of
unwarranted complacency and, indeed, of laziness: you do our job for us because
we don't want to any more.

CAMERON is in danger of being cast as a builder invited to bid for a contract to
build an extension who says he will only do the work if the householder joins in
with plenty of DIY. That's the bad news. The good news is that the FUG factor
(the Fundamental Uselessness of Gordon) is still in place. Brown clunked his way
through another deeply uninspiring week, capping it with a repellent display of
surliness and stale thinking in the leaders' debate.

What has taken place this week is not the end of the story but a very
significant chapter. The plot has taken a dramatic twist. A dashing new
character has entered the fray.

A big Tory victory suddenly seems as remote a possibility as any kind of Labour
win. The range of plausible election results has contracted to two: a small
Conservative majority or a hung parliament. If I were David Cameron I would take
Kipling's advice and treat those two imposters just the same. Given the
massively difficult task of sorting out the national finances in a climate of
public hostility towards politicians, Cameron would be well advised to try to
enlist Clegg and Cable in a joint venture even if he secures a narrow overall
majority.

Clegg scored heavily in the debate when he talked of Labour and the
Conservatives as the two old parties who have been swapping power between each
other for 65 years. Many voters clearly regard being forced to choose between
them this time as tantamount to deciding between the phantom mortgage mob and
the duck house brigade.

Joining forces with Clegg's party to wage war on the deficit would mean Cameron
having an expanded mandate: on current standings about 60 per cent of voters as
against less than 40 per cent on his own. That would be hugely helpful when
implementing spending cuts.

As Daily Express readers' panel member Julia Clough said after watching the
debate: "I wouldn't mind if the Conservatives linked up with the Lib Dems. I
think Cameron and Clegg would be a dynamic combination."

Whether a joint venture needs to go so far as a formal coalition is uncertain.
During the debate Clegg actually offered the co-operation of his party in
tackling the deficit but my instinct is that locking in the Lib Dems to the
overall responsibility of governing would be a smart move.

The task facing Cameron now is to do well enough in the election to pass Clegg's
test of who has the strongest mandate to be premier. That merely means winning
more seats and votes than Labour, a task that remains eminently achievable.

If he reacts to his difficult week intelligently Cameron's chances of occupying
10 Downing Street will grow stronger rather than weaker. But when he gets there
he can no longer expect to have things all his own way.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLUENT: Nick Clegg speaking as David Cameron looks on
Picture: GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fanatic hunt in schools a £12m flop

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 233 words


A KEY counter-terrorist scheme that called on schools to report potential
Islamic fanatics was condemned yesterday as an expensive failure after teachers
refused to take part for fear of upsetting Muslims.

The £12.5million project, set up after the 7/7 Al Qaeda attacks in 2005, was
aimed at preventing pupils from being recruited by extremists and turned into
potential suicide bombers.

School staff were asked to report vulnerable youngsters to panels created by
counter-terrorism police. But the scheme involving 7,500 schools in locations
including Lancashire, London, West Yorkshire and the Midlands, upset teachers
who were reluctant to damage their relationship with Muslim pupils.

Chris Keates, of the NASUWT teaching union, said: "Some of our members are
concerned at the effects.

"Teachers are not guardians of national security."

Mick Brookes, of the National Association of Head Teachers, added: "I understand
the need to be alert, but I find it difficult to see how this can work in
schools without it being damaging and people feeling they are under suspicion."

Last night UKIP Euro-MP Gerard Batten said: "What could have been a sensible
project has been destroyed by public sector workers with PC priorities wasting
millions of pounds."

The Home Office and the Department for Children, Families and Schools said they
were unable to comment on the claims in accordance with electioneering rules.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

From bad to verse...EU boss tries writing poetry

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 391 words


WITH the fate of 27 nations and around half a billion people under his control,
European President Herman Van Rompuy could be assumed to have his hands full.

But while Europe struggles to emerge from recession, the former Belgian prime
minister has managed to find time to publish a book of poetry.

The subjects of his poems include mating toads, dead fish and going bald and
they are written in the Japanese verse form called haiku, which has only three
lines.

Economist Mr Van Rompuy, 62, who became Europe's first president last year on a
salary of £320,000, writes in the foreword to the anthology:

"Haiku literally means playful verse. Its artless-Daily Express, ness invites
both the poet and the reader to pause for a while and take some distance from
the daily hustle and bustle, in which we hopelessly and all too easily get
entangled.

"Moreover, haiku is brief, which is convenient for people who have no time to
labour over long poems."

One person who is unlikely to spend time browsing through the new volume's pages
is former UKIP leader and wouldbe MP Nigel Farage.

Earlier this year he was fined £2,700 by the European Parliament for saying Mr
Van Rompuy possessed "all the charisma of a damp rag" and had "the appearance of
a low-grade bank clerk".

Mr Farage said yesterday: "Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear. God help us. I hope he is
better at running the EU's economy than he is at writing poetry."

Mr Van Rompuy has been composing verse for several years and fan clubs have
emerged on the internet. At the book's launch in Brussels last week, he said
there had been calls for him to publish some of his work and so he had obliged.

Normally quiet and serious, he smiled and read several of his most recent
compositions.

He said he was drawn to haiku because of its simplicity, its compact use of
language and its concentration on nature.

He told a baffled audience: "A poet remains best away from politics. In that
sense I am a politician. A haiku poet rather than a haiku poet-politician."

Quite what Mr Van Rompuy, dismissed as a clown by his own sister last November,
meant by that was unclear.

The 40 or so poems in Nov 19 the anthology were written over the past six years.

Mr Van Rompuy said he hoped his book would make it easier for the work of other
poets to be published.

"Together we share a sense of beauty and simplicity if given the nudge."

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Daily Express, Nov 19
Van Rompuy at the book launch and some of his haiku poems

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fanatic hunt in schools a GBP 12m flop

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 234  words


A KEY counter-terrorist scheme that called on schools to report potential
Islamic fanatics was condemned yesterday as an expensive failure after teachers
refused to take part for fear of upsetting Muslims.

The GBP 12.5million project, set up after the 7/7 Al Qaeda attacks in 2005, was
aimed at preventing pupils from being recruited by extremists and turned into
potential suicide bombers.

School staff were asked to report vulnerable youngsters to panels created by
counter-terrorism police. But the scheme involving 7,500 schools in locations
including Lancashire, London, West Yorkshire and the Midlands, upset teachers
who were reluctant to damage their relationship with Muslim pupils.

Chris Keates, of the NASUWT teaching union, said: "Some of our members are
concerned at the effects.

"Teachers are not guardians of national security."

Mick Brookes, of the National Association of Head Teachers, added: "I understand
the need to be alert, but I find it difficult to see how this can work in
schools without it being damaging and people feeling they are under suspicion."

Last night UKIP Euro-MP Gerard Batten said: "What could have been a sensible
project has been destroyed by public sector workers with PC priorities wasting
millions of pounds."

The Home Office and the Department for Children, Families and Schools said they
were unable to comment on the claims in accordance with electioneering rules.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

From bad to verse. . .EU boss tries writing poetry

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 31

LENGTH: 389  words


WITH the fate of 27 nations and around half a billion people under his control,
European President Herman Van Rompuy could be assumed to have his hands full.

But while Europe struggles to emerge from recession, the former Belgian prime
minister has managed to find time to publish a book of poetry.

The subjects of his poems include mating toads, dead fish and going bald and
they are written in the Japanese verse form called haiku, which has only three
lines.

Economist Mr Van Rompuy, 62, who became Europe's first president last year on a
salary of GBP 320,000, writes in the foreword to the anthology:

"Haiku literally means playful verse. Its artlessness invites both the poet and
the reader to pause for a while and take some distance from the daily hustle and
bustle, in which we hopelessly and all too easily get entangled.

"Moreover, haiku is brief, which is convenient for people who have no time to
labour over long poems."

One person who is unlikely to spend time browsing through the new volume's pages
is former UKIP leader and would be MP Nigel Farage.

Earlier this year he was fined GBP 2,700 by the European Parliament for saying
Mr Van Rompuy possessed "all the charisma of a damp rag" and had "the appearance
of a low-grade bank clerk".

Mr Farage said yesterday: "Oh dear, oh dear, oh dear. God help us. I hope he is
better at running the EU's economy than he is at writing poetry."

Mr Van Rompuy has been composing verse for several years and fan clubs have
emerged on the internet. At the book's launch in Brussels last week, he said
there had been calls for him to publish some of his work and so he had obliged.

Normally quiet and serious, he smiled and read several of his most recent
compositions. He said he was drawn to haiku because of its simplicity, its
compact use of language and its concentration on nature.

He told a baffled audience: "A poet remains best away from politics. In that
sense I am a politician. A haiku poet rather than a haiku poet-politician."

Quite what Mr Van Rompuy, dismissed as a clown by his own sister last November,
meant by that was unclear.

The 40 or so poems in the anthology were written over the past six years.

Mr Van Rompuy said he hoped his book would make it easier for the work of other
poets to be published.

"Together we share a sense of beauty and simplicity if given the nudge."

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Daily Express, Nov 19
Van Rompuy at the book launch and some of his haiku poems

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

How to take care of a problem called Clegg

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 19

LENGTH: 766  words


AT THE end of the second week of the election campaign there is a sense of
unease among the Conservative high command. David Cameron's pitch for Downing
Street is not yet wilting but the extent of the challenge facing him has become
dauntingly clear. He must try to turn 200 seats into nearly 350 in a single
election under constituency boundaries that favour Labour, with a chunk of his
right flank having defected to UKIP and with trust in mainstream politics at
rock bottom.

To that list of difficulties we must add another after Thursday's inaugural
leaders' election debate: a third party that boasts not only a Treasury
spokesman who commands widespread respect and affection but also a leader who is
suddenly flavour of the month. And at this point in the political cycle a leader
only has to be flavour of the month for a month.

To redeploy the wounding soundbite he threw at Tony Blair, Cameron was the
future once. But now Nick Clegg seems the fresher, more hopeful, less tainted
figure in the eyes of many voters. Clegg has become the insurgent, Cameron, for
all his zealous reform during the expenses scandal, another incumbent of the
political establishment.

A further setback is that Cameron's manifesto, lauded by most political pundits
including this one, has clearly not connected with voters as he would have
hoped. It is not that the "power to the people" slogan he deployed was backed up
by too little substance but arguably that it was backed up by too much.

More choice over public services was the element that voters liked. But the idea
of being compelled to take more responsibility for them, to actually "join the
government of Britain", has sailed over the heads of some voters and annoyed
others. It has been received not as an act of laudable radicalism but of
unwarranted complacency and, indeed, of laziness: you do our job for us because
we don't want to any more.

C AMERON is in danger of being cast as a builder invited to bid for a contract
to build an extension who says he will only do the work if the householder joins
in with plenty of DIY.

That's the bad news. The good news is that the FUG factor (the Fundamental
Uselessness of Gordon) is still in place. Brown clunked his way through another
deeply uninspiring week, capping it with a repellent display of surliness and
stale thinking in the leaders' debate.

What has taken place this week is not the end of the story but a very
significant chapter. The plot has taken a dramatic twist. A dashing new
character has entered the fray.

A big Tory victory suddenly seems as remote a possibility as any kind of Labour
win. The range of plausible election results has contracted to two: a small
Conservative majority or a hung parliament. If I were David Cameron I would take
Kipling's advice and treat those two imposters just the same. Given the
massively difficult task of sorting out the national finances in a limate of
public hostility towards politicians, Cameron would be well advised to try to
enlist Clegg and Cable in a joint venture even if he secures a narrow overall
majority.

Clegg scored heavily in the debate when he talked of Labour and the
Conservatives as the two old parties who have been swapping power between each
other for 65 years.

Many voters clearly regard being forced to choose between them this time as
tantamount to deciding between the phantom mortgage mob and the duck house
brigade.

Joining forces with Clegg's party to wage war on the deficit would mean Cameron
having an expanded mandate: on current standings about 60 per cent of voters as
against less than 40 per cent on his own.

That would be hugely helpful when implementing spending cuts.

As Daily Express readers' panel member Julia Clough said after watching the
debate: "I wouldn't mind if the Conservatives linked up with the Lib Dems. I
think Cameron and Clegg would be a dynamic combination."

Whether a joint venture needs to go so far as a formal coalition is uncertain.
During the debate Clegg actually offered the co-operation of his party in
tackling the deficit but my instinct is that locking in the Lib Dems to the
overall responsibility of governing would be a smart move.

The task facing Cameron now is to do well enough in the election to pass Clegg's
test of who has the strongest mandate to be premier.

That merely means winning more seats and votes than Labour, a task that remains
eminently achievable.

If he reacts to his difficult week intelligently Cameron's chances of occupying
10 Downing Street will grow stronger rather than weaker.

But when he gets there he can no longer expect to have things all his own way.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FLUENT: Nick Clegg speaking as David Cameron looks on

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

THE BIG PARTIES ARE FAILING TO LAY A GLOVE ON CONFIDENT UKIP

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 19

LENGTH: 398  words


SUPPORTERS of the United Kingdom Independence Party have good reason to have a
spring in their step today. Britain's fourth party has been having a terrific
campaign.

Certainly the metropolitan political elite and its media allies have found much
to scoff at but the louder they laugh the more appealing UKIP and its leading
lights are to voters.

Take the party's "Sod the Lot" election poster. Clearly it was brash but it also
captured the feelings of millions. Then there was UKIP leader Lord Pearson's
interview on the Today programme.

UKIP detractors loved hearing him being bludgeoned by the professional
aggression of John Humphrys but the interview will not have lost UKIP any votes
as Pearson displayed oodles of the "gentleman amateur" charm that serves Boris
Johnson so well.

At UKIP's manifesto launch he disarmingly admitted to sometimes losing track of
all the "squillions and the billions and the trillions" of public spending.
Again the political class leapt on it. One Tory MP told me it had been "a car
crash". I don't think so. The point that the Government spends vastly too much
of our money stands. Other metropolitan elitists turned their fire on Nigel
Farage, the party's former leader who is trying to topple Commons Speaker John
Bercow in Buckingham.

The gloriously politically incorrect Farage has made a pub crawl the centrepiece
of his campaign. He aims to have at least a half of bitter in every pub in the
constituency.

Cultivating the air of the cheerful bounder he has also become bulletproof
against the onslaught of the political class.

UKIP has a slate of appealing Right-wing policies including a five-year freeze
on immigration and plans for new grammar schools.

This week's Daily Express/Opinion poll found support for it running at five per
cent. That may not sound much but it is a major success in a first-past-the-post
system that serves as a formidable barrier to entry to new parties.

At his manifesto launch David Cameron said the Conservatives are now firmly
established as a centrist party. "We have returned to the centre ground of
British politics and that is where we will stay, " he said.

That leaves a vast space to the Right for a party appealing to voters passionate
about law and order, defending sovereignty, stoppin g mass immigration and
radically reducin g taxes. Whether they win any seats on May 6 or not UKIP's
long-term prospects are rosy.

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday

Saturday: This week: People: West end girl: Lady Pearson

BYLINE: John Crace

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 139 words


Step aside Sam Cam, Sarah Brown and Miriam Gonzalez Durantez. Rather than
smiling winsomely at her husband's banalities, Lady Caroline - wife of Ukip
leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch - has chosen to stand as the Ukip candidate for
Kensington and Chelsea. It's all a bit last minute, mind; Lady C only declared
her nomination after the election was announced. She is fighting for "freedom
and democracy", the right for small shops on the King's Road not to be bulldozed
by supermarkets and . . . er, that's about it. She doesn't even have a policy on
the local congestion charge. But why would she, when she and her husband own a
large part of Scotland and everyone knows a taxi is by far the best way to go
shopping in London? Don't write off her chances, though. Kensington and Chelsea
have long since declared independence. From reality.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday

Bercow or bust?

BYLINE: Ian Mayesguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 329 words

ABSTRACT

Ian Mayes: Being stuck in the Speaker's constituency means that Labour or
Liberal Democrat voters have no real choice at all

FULL TEXT

It may seem odd to complain of being disenfranchised in a constituency where
maybe  will be standing by the time the list closes. This though seems to be a
not uncommon and sometimes angry complaint among people I talk to in the  where
I live.

The sitting MP is the , the Speaker of the Commons - and because he's the
Speaker the other major parties, Labour and Liberal Democrat, have followed the
loose convention and decided not to stand against him. A fairly easy decision
for them to make, you may think, because Bercow has a huge majority - over
18,000 - and there is no chance of the kind of reversal that happened in 1964
when the Labour candidate, Robert Maxwell (remember him?) unseated Sir Frank
Markham.

This time the absence of Labour and Liberal Democrats seems to have created a
vacuum into which all sorts of candidates have rushed, including the BNP's Lynne
Mozar. Her presence though is no more controversial than that of , the leader of
UKIP, Nigel Farage. Some choice.

The question for someone who would normally vote Labour or Liberal Democrat is
what to do in these circumstances. I have heard mutterings of spoiled ballot
papers, a kind of dirty protest. Do you vote for John Bercow, even though that
may not be something you would normally do in a million years, in support of the
semi-convention that the Speaker should be returned unopposed - and to keep a
cordon sanitaire around Farage? Do you not vote at all? Is it time we dropped
the pretence of a free ride for the Speaker, and subjected him to a proper
election like everyone else?

Meanwhile, if you are a Labour or Liberal Democrat voter in this part of the
world you may feel, as I do, left in the lurch, free on election day to take a
walk in the Chilterns.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday

Blank votes would reform democracy

BYLINE: Balaji Ravichandranguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1058 words

ABSTRACT

Balaji Ravichandran: Disillusionment is not indifference, and a blank vote
illustrates a continued willingness to engage with the democratic process

FULL TEXT

Democracy, we learn at school, is government by, of, and for the people. It's an
attractive aphorism, and it sounds convincing. We accept it without much doubt,
and through our adulthoods, believe that collectively, we hold the keys to the
government. Indeed, the illusion of power is so complete that even when we are
utterly powerless, it never occurs to us to question whether the prevalent forms
of representative democracy are truly the least harmful ways to self-governance.

We might be inclined to say yes, but ask a woman, a gay man or someone of Jewish
faith who lived through the early 20th century, when a decisive majority was
against their rights, and soon one might feel different. Even today, imagine one
of those daily encounters with a government official - from the managero of an
NHS trust to the immigration officials at Heathrow - and then ask yourself the :
"Who serves whom? Who is the servant, who the master?" Do you still feel
powerful? Do you still think it is your government?

There is something wrong about democracy as we practise it - the self same
democracy that our governments seem intent on exporting elsewhere. Better than
oppressive autocracies and theocracies, you might say. Sure, but without being a
moral relativist, is that enough? For, by presupposing to be the most legitimate
means for the transfer of power, and never questioning the source of that
legitimacy, even democracy stifles dissent within and debates outside its own
realms.

A person who chooses to abstain, or cast a blank vote, is accused of having
committed an outright offence, a sin, against the unchallenged reign of
democratic principles, and therefore excluded from political discourse. If you
want to challenge the status quo, the argument goes, you have to earn the right
to do so, and within democracy. Form, join or support a party, stand for or vote
in elections, win, and then, with the mandate, effect reform. By just abstaining
or spoiling your votes, you're just wasting an opportunity, and therefore are
apathetic, reckless and irresponsible. With us or against us. Sounds familiar?

Totalitarian democracy, therefore, is by no means an oxymoron.

With the general elections coming up, and political and ideological differences
between parties becoming indiscernible, we struggle to find someone who comes
close to representing our individual philosophies. More often than not, every
party embodies two or more principles we feel are fundamentally incompatible.
Quietism is not exactly welcome, and may even be counterproductive. Those of us
who still want to engage with the democratic process, are, of course, not
allowed to say: we don't like any of the parties, and short of a political
rebirth, none of the parties are welcome. A poll by Mori in 2001 showed that
more than 30% of voters would turn out to vote if the ballot had "none of the
above" as an option, which has prompted Steve of Stevenage to form a party
called . Which in turn begs the question of whether it is sensible to attribute
low turnouts merely to voter apathy. Disillusionment, after all, is not the same
as indifference.

Where cynicism and dissatisfaction infect the bodypolitik, and self-serving
hunger for long-term power motivates politicians, the grounds are fertile both
for the roots of widespread intolerance, and for the birth of a revolution. And
it may well be to our advantage if we choose the latter. Thankfully, it can be
achieved quite easily, and with devastating results.  shows us how.

In  (Essay on Lucidity, or Seeing), the supposed sequel to his much
misunderstood bestseller  ([Essay on] Blindness), Saramago imagines a
cosmopolitan city where the inhabitants become disaffected with the
unwillingness of the political parties to engage with them. So, in ways unknown,
the citizens collectively decide to actuate a silent revolution that would force
politicians to take note - by casting blank votes, not once, but twice. Of
course, blank votes are normally considered spoilt, as is the case in the UK,
and therefore are usually not included when deciding upon the majority, and
let's face it, it is the majority that counts. However, what if more than 80% of
the populace, with an exceptionally high turnout, decide to vote blank? How
could the politicians, and indeed the world, ignore it?

It would be easy, and wrong, to dismiss this as a mere political fable. After
all, this has not happened at any time in the history of world democracy. But,
done right, it may be our best weapon to reform democracy within the rigid
conditions it imposes. (That is to say, blank votes should have sufficient
majority as to not give disproportional representation to any party, especially
hostile ones like the BNP and Ukip.)

For, disillusioned as the population may be, blank votes as opposed to outright
abstention illustrate a continued, if sceptical, willingness to engage with the
democratic process in its own current terms. It forces the politicians out of
the apparent insouciance which characterises their actions when running the
government, be it on local issues such as ID cards and ministerial conduct to
international issues like genocide and war in foreign territories. It further
makes it possible for us to re-examine the fragile foundations of representative
democracy, and our Hobbesian willingness to enter into an unequal, and often
unfair, contract with the government.

Above all, of course, it is the only way to scrutinise if indeed it is the demos
that is at the heart of a democracy, or if democracy is nothing more than a
convenient myth to confer an illusion of absolutism to an arbitrary and cunning
political game of power transfer. If the former, it would bring politicians to a
halt; if the latter, it might well bring democracy to a halt. Either way, we
bring forth a much needed revolution.

As an eligible voter, I intend to cast a blank vote. Perhaps, thanks to the
interconnecting presence of the web, and social networking sites, we may be able
to cast blank votes in sufficiently high numbers. I would strongly urge the
readers to consider it.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Election-lit: which books get your vote?;
politics special Delve beyond the soundbites to discover where the parties
stand. Our reviewers pick the books that will swing readers

BYLINE: Edwina Currie; Ann Treneman; Michael Dobbs; Hugo Rifkind; Chris Mullin;
David Aaronovitch

SECTION: SATURDAY REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 3620 words


If you're Tory Edwina Currie

Back from the Brink by Peter Snowdon

Harper Press, £14.99 £13.49; 352pp

The Conservative Party from Thatcher to Cameron by Tim Bale

Polity, £25 £22.50; 504pp

Red Tory: How Left and Right Have Broken Britain and How We Can Fix It

by Phillip Blond

Faber and Faber, £12.99 £11.69; 309pp

Dave Cameron's Schooldays by Bill Coles

Legend, £7.99 £7.59; 253pp

At last, the Tories are looking electable. The Augean stables have been scoured:
toxic odours of Margaret Thatcher and the "nasty party" are fading, in large
wise due to smart young Dave and his new broom.

The defeat of 1997, when I lost my seat, left the Tories with just 165 MPs, and
came as a huge surprise to most of my colleagues. For them it was a bad dream;
under the inept William Hague, they felt no need to inquire into their own
behaviour and beliefs. The voters were wrong, and would soon come to their
senses. A repeat of the awful result, in 2001, still didn't sink in.

During the leadership contest that followed, I wrote that the contenders offered
the blue-rinsed ladies a stark choice: Ken Clarke reminded them of their
husbands (fat and covered in fag ash) while Michael Portillo was too like their
sons (slick, selfish and slightly dodgy). But Iain Duncan Smith recalled their
fathers back from the war, an unassuming man who knew little and said not a lot.
That's why IDS won it.

Duncan Smith's disastrous 777 days as leader was the turning point. "He might,
ironically, have done the party some good by being so bad," Tim Bale observes.
With Blair ascendant the party needed someone with political nous who could
shake up the organisation, raise some money and raise morale. Michael Howard got
the job unopposed; he promised to deliver victory on an anti-Europe, anti-change
manifesto, which enthused only the diehards. When he failed even to reach 200
seats in 2005, he too quit, but stayed around long enough for Cameron to take
the party by storm.

Peter Snowdon, a BBC reporter, worked with Anthony Seldon particularly on the
brilliant Blair Unbound. His book is thorough, but it is a terrific read,
especially for anyone wanting the story behind the scenes. Some 120 wonderfully
candid interviews, many with Conservative apparatchiks, create a chilling
portrait of Central Office under Hague and IDS doing its best to throttle
itself. My only quibble is that background events are sketchy, making it too
much of a soap opera and less like the Shakespearean tragedy it really was.

Bale, from the University of Sussex, relies less on interviewees but places his
narrative firmly in context, with opinion polls and independent research from
the Political Studies Association. This is a simply brilliant book, written with
wit and insight; his judgments are spot-on. Each time a new leader began with
moderate remarks to reposition the party closer to the centre ground on which
British elections are won. Each time the furies howled with rage, and the leader
backed off. Three elections in a row, the Tories sounded as mad, crude and cruel
as before. Each time Mr Blair could destroy them, easily. Until now.

As Bale says, it probably needed Thatcher to be transformed "from a constantly
carping critic into a frail old lady" before change would stick; then, "as the
party ticked off the years between 1997 and 2005, exhaustion gave way first to
frustration and finally to hunger". Whether it is hungry enough we'll see on May
6.

Phillip Blond is another kettle of fish. Or more precisely, he's nuts. Cameron's
people, one hears, are quite taken with him. They shouldn't touch him with a
bargepole.

Blond's thesis of "Progressive Conservatism" is a weird mixture of romanticism,
cod history and mangled statistics; William Cobbett meets Milton Friedman and
Archbishop Tutu, with a dash of Enoch Powell. The Industrial Revolution
destroyed the wholesome small communities of rural England. Socialism brought in
the over-developed State. Thatcherism led to unrestrained markets and to
libertarianism.

Selfishness and materialism now rule and everyone is unhappy. Yes, up to a
point. But then what? To restore our broken society we must have values. He
means Christianity, of a noticeably right-wing kind, but he's too cowardly to
say so. We must abjure largescale business such as Tesco (pardon?). At least I
think that's what he is saying; the prose is ghastly: "In this way a belief in
the transcendent idea of the good alone allows both objectivity about values and
a liberal openness to free discussion of value." Work it out for yourself;
better still, don't bother.

Instead, try Dave Cameron's Schooldays for jolly fictional japes. Young Dave is
sent out from Eton to find Mike Hunt (say it fast) and is beaten up; the pain
makes the lad quite excited. Coles, an Old Etonian, probably still bears the
stripes himself. You could say it helps to explain the real Dave's determination
to whip us into shape. We shall see.

If you're Labour Ann Treneman

Speak for Britain! A New History of the Labour Party by Martin Pugh

The Bodley Head, £20 £18; 480pp

Inside Out

by Peter Watt

Biteback, £16.99 £15.29; 208pp

The ChangeWe Choose: Speeches 2007-2009 by Gordon Brown

Mainstream, £20 £18; 272pp

Labour Pains by Peter Kilfoyle

Biteback, £12.99 £11.69; 272pp

Broonland: The Last Days of Gordon Brown by Christopher Harvie

Verso, £8.99 £8.54; 224pp

The End of the Party by Andrew Rawnsley

Viking, £25 £22.50; 816pp

To order books at discounted prices and with free p&p call 0845 2712134

I begin this review from the premise that Labour is fighting the general
election and is fighting to win. But the publishing industry - with one notable
exception - appears to have decided something else entirely. Three of these six
books on Labour are not just a bit negative but full-frontal attacks, much worse
than anything the Tories have yet been able to muster. But the enemy within is a
bit of a Labour tradition, as the historian Martin Pugh can teach us. Then there
is Andrew Rawnsley's The End of the Party: the title says it all really.

And the sixth? Well, the sixth is written by Gordon Brown. I think we know his
point of view. Actually, I still can't believe that this book exists. I read a
news story and a review of this book in The Times on April 1 and it made me
laugh. Not, I hasten to add, that there is anything to laugh at in the actual
book. God forbid that our Prime Minister make a joke. I laughed because I
thought the stories were April Fool's jokes. I really could not imagine that
anyone would publish The Change We Choose: Speeches 2007-2009. And it costs £20!
I saw most of these speeches being made, free of charge, and thought that a bit
dear.

Even I feel bad that it has come to this. Think back to 1997 and all that hope
and dancing and optimism. Now, 13 years later, there is this on the bookshelf:
three vicious assaults, a journalistic filleting, an historical grimace and one
book that I consider to be vanity publishing. If you read only these books - and
I include Gordon's - you would feel profoundly depressed.

Actually I quite enjoyed two of the vicious assaults. The best is Peter Watt's
Inside Out. Mr Watt became General Secretary of the Labour Party in 2005 at the
age of 36. He had an extraordinarily bad time. First he discovered that the
party had made secret loans that it could not afford to repay.

Then he had to organise Gordon Brown's election that never was. Then Donor-gate
exploded in all its labyrinthine madness.

This is Mr Watt's revenge, for he lost his job over the affair. It is a detailed
account of money, greed, chaos, denial, fear and, at times, madness. There is,
however, way too much about Mr Watt himself and his personal life. I tried to
skip through much of that. But there are also unexpected gems. Take for
instance, this description of political Cabinet meetings: "The discussions were
long and turgid and ministers would not always bother listening to each other. I
would look round the table and see people doodling or gazing vacantly into thin
air."

Peter Kilfoyle is making a career out of being embittered and the name of his
book is Labour Pains: How the Party I Love Lost its Soul. There is a mission
statement on the back jacket: "This book is intended, above all, to be honest. I
have no concern for reputations or careers, nor for those who have priced such
ephemera beyond those principles upon which they were first selected, and then
elected." I think you can get the drift of the tone from that: high-minded and
highly critical. It is a slim volume (134 pages) and vitriolic.

Broonland, by Christopher Harvie, Scottish Nationalist SMP and historian, is
much tougher to get through. It is subtitled "The Last Days of Gordon Brown" and
so at least we know where we stand from the beginning.

The writing is so incredibly layered that I found it exhausting. There are
ideas, poetry, names coming from all directions: I found reading it a bit like
being pummelled repeatedly by small blows.

I am a fan of Andrew Rawnsley and I found The End of the Party revealing and
entertaining. It made a splash when it was published with details of Gordon's
bullying ways. Not many writers have the honour of being attacked by Lord
Mandelson personally.

For me, this is just more proof that it must be true. I quite like Mr Rawnsley's
tendency towards potboiler style. It makes a refreshing change.

Anyone who is interested in Labour history will want to read Speak For Britain:
a New History of the Labour Party. It is long and detailed but worth it for
serious students.

I cannot help but note that one of his conclusions is that Labour tends to hang
on to its leaders too long.

Which brings me to - yes! - The Change We Choose. All I can say is, if I could
choose, I wouldn't choose this. They've tried to dress it up by having the
various themes introduced by the likes of Alan Greenspan and Sarah Brown, but it
doesn't work. I am quite baffled that it exists. Indeed, that Gordon has allowed
it to be published is perhaps the most depressing thing of all.

Ann Treneman's Annus Horribilis: The Worst Year in British Politics is published
by Gibson Square Books

Michael Dobbs picks great fictional PMs

Harry Perkins in A Very British Coup by Chris Mullin (1982)

Perkins is the PM who wants to get rid of media monopolies, nuclear weapons and
US influence. Nothing new there, then. His idealism runs full pelt into
entrenched interests and ends with mysterious forces ousting him.

Adam Lang in The Ghost by Robert Harris (2007) Like Perkins, Lang is also a
Labour PM but there the similarities peter out. Idealism for Lang is only
speech-deep; he is a barely disguised Blair. The Ghost is a stomach-scouring
denunciation of new Labour by one of its most enthusiastic early supporters.

Geoffrey Melville in The Prime Minister's Daughter by Maurice Edelman (1964)
Edeleman's world is not a stage for heroes. Melville is decent enough, but
decency takes second place to political rivals, newspaper barons and his own
flawed family as they collude in his downfall.

Plantagenet Palliser in The Prime Minister by Anthony Trollope (1876) Another
decent man goes astray and agrees to lead a multiparty coalition government that
gets nowhere and achieves nothing.

Jim Hacker in Yes, Prime Minister by Anthony Jay and Jonathan Lynn (1986-88) Jim
Hacker's bewildered innocence in office reminds me of Tony Blair before he
discovered Bernie Ecclestone's chequebook. Michael Dobbs is the creator of
Francis Urquhart, the Machiavellian Prime Minister of the award-winning House of
Cards series. His latest novel, The Reluctant Hero, is published by Simon &
Schuster

Hugo Rifkind checks what the leaders are reading

GordonBrown

"I read a lot of chick-lit," Sarah Brown told The Times last weekend, "and
Gordon, not so much." Obviously this is an enormous surprise, and changes
everything. Poetry is apparently more to his taste, and he has in the past cited
the New Oxford Book of Eighteenth-Century Verse by Roger Lonsdale as one of his
favourite books. I don't think they've ever made it into a film.

He has also spoken highly of Unbowed, the memoir of the Kenyan political
activist Wangari Maathai (which sounds like the sort of thing you show off about
if you are speed-dating) and, far more tellingly, Docherty by William
McIlvanney, which is a novel about grim, staunch Scottish people at the end of
the 19th century, doing their utmost not to be sent down the pit.

Of course, Gordon has also written quite a few books, most of which seem to have
the word "courage" in the title.

Chances are he's also read them. Somebody's got to have done. Recommended
reading Lanark by Alasdair Gray. It's suitably dour and Scottish, just how
Gordon likes it, but also a gloriously confusing fantasy about a person who has
just woken up after a dimly-remembered different sort of life in which he
suspects he did something terrible. On May 7, it may be just the thing.

DavidCameron Most likely we will never really know what David Cameron reads. We
will know only what he wants us to think he reads. For the most part that's
fairly lowbrow stuff, a bit like you or me, mate. He's said in the past that he
starts each holiday by reading "a really trashy novel". Last year that was
Patricia Cornwell's The Scarpetta Factor, a miserable mystery about a forensic
pathologist.

Cameron's favourite book, he's often said, is Goodbye To All That, the Robert
Graves novel about a young public schoolboy going off to the First World War.
He's also spoken highly about Our Island Story, the children's history of
Britain by H. E. Marshall. Lovely as both are, it's fairly obvious that Cameron
must have read them at school and the fact that he's still going on about them
makes one wonder if he's read much since. Recommended reading The Dead Zone by
Stephen King. Not too taxing, just how he likes it. It's about a clownish
politician who everybody thinks is a buffoon, but who may one day become a
hideous tyrant. So it may help Dave to get to grips with Boris Johnson.

Nick Clegg

Clegg has always sounded curiously coy when asked about reading, perhaps because
he's one of those formidably well-read and self-improving people who doesn't
quite understand that most of us manage only a few pages each night before
yawning, giving up, and putting on the telly. His favourite book, he has said,
is The Leopard, a Giuseppe Tomasi di Lampedusa novel about social change in
Sicily during the unification of Italy. This is a suitably Eurocrat choice.
Alongside English, Clegg speaks Dutch, French, German and Spanish. And chances
are, he thinks everybody else does, too.

Recommended reading Anything by Dan Brown. Descend to our level.

Chris Mullin picks great political diaries

A good political diary is not one that is relentlessly political, but one that
sheds light on the personal life of the author as well as the age in which he
lived. My favourites in order of appearance are:

Harold Nicolson, Diaries 1907-1963 Diplomat, writer, politician. A toff in an
age of toffs. His political career peaked at parliamentary under-secretary but
he was intimately acquainted with everyone who mattered - Curzon, Oswald Mosley,
Churchill, Guy Burgess, de Gaulle. There are entries that begin, "Lunch with the
Queen ..."

Jock Colville, Fringes of Power, Downing Street Diaries 1939-1955 The private
secretary to three prime ministers - Chamberlain, Churchill and Attlee. Like
Nicolson, a well-connected toff. Government in those days was so much more
laid-back. His entry for May 7, 1940, the day of the debate that brought down
the Government, begins: "Rode at Richmond before breakfast under cloudless skies
..."

Alan Clark, Diaries The first volume (1983-91) is the one that matters.
"Malicious, lecherous, self-pitying, and ... enormous fun," was the verdict of a
fellow Tory MP, Julian Critchley.

Gyles Brandreth, Breaking the Code It pains me to admit, since I used to think
of Brandreth as a smug, supercilious git, that his diaries make fascinating
reading. A candid, hilarious, beautifully-written account of life behind the
scenes in John Major's benighted Government.

Alastair Campbell, The Blair Years An inside account of the first six years of
new Labour by a man who enjoyed total access. Not quite the definitive history
since it soft-pedals on Blair v Brown, but an unexpurgated version is in the
pipeline.

Chris Mullin recently retired after 23 years in Parliament. The first volume of
his diaries, A View from the Foothills, was published last year. A further
volume will be published in September

If you're undecided David Aaronovitch

Where Power Lies: Prime Ministers v The Media

by Lance Price

Simon & Schuster, £20 £18; 528pp

The Complete and Utter Guide to the 2010 Election by Jonathan Maitland

Metro, £7.99 £7.59; 288pp

Do They Think You're Stupid? by Julian Baggini

Granta, £8.99 £8.54; 352pp

Why Vote Liberal Democrat? by Danny Alexander MP, foreword by Nick Clegg

Bitebck, £6.99 £6.64; 128pp

The political publishing hiatus between Alastair Campbell's diaries and Tony
Blair's memoirs is being briefly interrupted by a general election.
Conscientious about their duties to an informed democracy, Britain's publishers
are bringing out a number of titles to help voters. The ones in the small bundle
sent to me by The Times fall into one of three categories: the historical, the
pedagogical and the rhetorical. Two of the books are by former BBC reporters
with whom I worked at the Corporation. Lance Price went from being a BBC
political correspondent in the Nineties to working for Tony B at No 10 and for
the Labour Party between 1998 and 2001. The result has been books in three
different genres: diary, novel and - now - history.

Where Power Lies: Prime Ministers v The Media is a fine and mostly familiar tour
of the relationship between politicians and the press, from the time of Lloyd
George to the impending Cameron moment.

I was most interested in Price's own revelation about the time when, in No 10, a
political editor offered him a Faustian pact (with the editor as Faust to
Price's Mephistopheles): that in return for some anti-Tory info, he would say in
his story that it had come from senior Tory sources. "In other words he would
not merely hide where his information had come from, but he would lie about it,"
Price writes, adding, "To my shame I agreed." Price goes on to suggest (without
citing examples) that many journalists effectively colluded in Gordon Brown's
anti-Blair campaign.

Price is self-contradictory over the answer to his book's implied question.
Initially he argues that politicians overrate the influence of the media,
essentially providing the chorus of "I believes" so that this malign
fourth-estate Tinkerbell persists. But then, towards the end of his book he
quotes Barack Obama's pre-Presidential chiller - "for the broad public at least,
I am who the media says I am. I say what they say I say. I become who they say
I've become." That's a whole lot of influence.

Twenty years ago on the Today programme I worked with Jonathan Maitland, whose
amiable and upbeat book The Complete and Utter Guide to the 2010 Election aims
to inform and motivate the uninformed and the unmotivated. The trouble, of
course, is that such people are highly unlikely to buy the book, but at least it
isn't one of those tomes with a title like Bastards: How everything that goes
wrong in your life is the fault of politicians.

Maitland's positive attitude to democracy doesn't prevent him from excusing
people who choose not to vote. After all, he argues, what is one vote, more or
less? Interestingly, this exact fallacy is one of the hundred or so dealt with
by the philosopher Julian Baggini in Do They Think You're Stupid: 100 Ways of
Spotting Spin and Nonsense from the Media, Pundits and Politicians. Baggini
points out that there is a distinction between deciding an outcome and having an
effect. And besides, if you believe that people ought to vote, then it is
rational to follow your own maxim.

Baggini's is by far the most useful book to have beside you when assessing all
the arguments and assertions made during an election, but I fear it will be read
only by people who already agree with it. And the title is dishonest. The "spin
and nonsense" turn out to be the defective ways of thinking and arguing that we
all have and use.

Finally there's the rhetorical, represented in this group by Why Vote Liberal
Democrat?, in which an assortment of activists and celebrities tell the reader
such truths as "only the Liberal Democrats really believe in fairness". My
favourite paragraph has one LibDem youngster proclaim that "I am proud to be
Scottish. I am proud to be British.

At 22 I am proud to be a young person."

There's little such a person is not proud of, one imagines, including writing
absolute gibberish. But at least the activist is original, unlike the musician
Brian Eno who wraps up 20 years of political history in a phrase lifted from the
summit of the dung-heap of conventional dinner-party wisdom: "Cameron is
Blair-lite; new Labour dressed in blue, and new Labour was Thatcher dressed in a
smile."

I am sure similar things could be said of the other books in the series, which
make the cases for Labour, the Conservatives, Plaid Cymru, the SNP and the
Greens. But not for the BNP - and there is, also, alas, no Why Vote Ukip? (which
might have been sub-titled Because Idiots Need Representation Too).

Clarke reminded them of their husbands (fat and covered in fag ash) while
Portillo was too like their sons

Even I feel bad that it has come to this. Think back to 1997 and all that hope
and dancing and optimism

'Cameron is Blair-lite; new Labour dressed in blue, and new Labour was Thatcher
dressed in a smile'

"Anything would be better than our manifesto" "Please don't leave me on the
shelf" "I wish we had J.K. Rowling"

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALAN DAVIDSON; ANDREW McCAREN / ROSS PARRY; RAY TANG / REX FEATURES
CHRIS RADBURN / PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 17, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A hung Parliament? Well, anything's better than Tories

BYLINE: Rachel Sylvester; Alice Thomson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 36,37

LENGTH: 1262 words


Alan Johnson is the Mod who never punched a Rocker, the working-class orphan who
is loved by the middle classes and the postman who liaised with the managers.
The Home Secretary is Labour's best conciliator. As a trade unionist he reached
out to businessmen. As an education minister he convinced the party's MPs to
vote for university top-up fees. He is a Blairite who has remained loyal to
Gordon Brown, an elder statesman who is admired by the Young Turks, and a
football-loving lad who has been embraced by the Labour sisterhood. Now his
ability to bring factions together could be crucial to his party's future. After
Nick Clegg's success in Britain's first television leaders' debate, everyone is
focusing on the prospect of a hung Parliament. Mr Johnson, a long-time supporter
of proportional representation, would be the obvious go-between, a natural
choice to woo the Liberal Democrat leader into a coalition with Labour.

When we met him on a campaign visit to Oldham, the Home Secretary said he
"wasn't surprised" by Mr Clegg's performance. "He's good at presentational
things, he was very slick and relaxed. It's easy for him. The last Liberal Prime
Minister can only be contacted by spiritual medium. He hasn't got any record to
defend."

After 13 years in power, he thinks it was always going to be harder for Mr
Brown. "Gordon did much better than I expected," he said.

"It's not his natural strength but he was concise, he even made a joke.

David Cameron was flaky, he didn't look like the next prime minister."

The Lib Dems will get more scrutiny now, and when it comes to home affairs Mr
Johnson said: "They are soft on crime, inept on asylum and bloody dangerous on
national security."

But for him the Conservatives are a far greater enemy. "You can have a
progressive future or a Conservative future but not both. The people who want to
cast their votes against Labour at dinner parties had the luxury of that before.
Now they don't. They could let in the Tories. We are the underdogs."

It is, he believes, time for Labour and the Lib Dems to understand their shared
interest. "We have a lot in common - electoral reform, for example. We agree
that we shouldn't be playing games around national insurance and that we
shouldn't kowtow to companies like Marks & Spencer that have just paid Stuart
Rose's successor £15 million as a golden handshake."

On the big economic questions, he said Labour and the Lib Dems had been on the
same side throughout the recession. "When we said we'd reduce VAT, Cameron said,
'You may as well burn money'. The Lib Dems were with us. Like us, they want to
ensure we don't have a double-dip recession. We want to tackle poverty and so do
they.

"They also agree with us that this nonsense about a tax break for married
couples is judgmental and unfair. I think it would be very difficult to imagine
the Lib Dems being able to form a government with the Tories."

He knows he can't, under Labour Party rules, urge people to vote tactically for
Mr Clegg, but he said: "If you are a Lib Dem in a Tory/Labour marginal you
should vote Labour." What about in a Lib Dem/Tory marginal? "I have to say vote
Labour. But people can make their own judgments."

Politicians should, he said, stop scaremongering about the prospect of a hung
Parliament.

"It wouldn't be as good as a Labour government but anything is better than the
Tories - except the UK Independence Party."

Would an indecisive result upset the markets and threaten the recovery? "I don't
think that's true, I think we will get what the public want to get. It's no use
trying to frighten them off, it's patronising. A hung Parliament would create a
lot of complications but not insurmountable ones."

Can he imagine Labour going into coalition with the Lib Dems? "I am a supporter
of PR and so I believe we have to kill this argument that coalition government
is dangerous. Leaving this election aside, I don't have a horror of coalitions.
You see what happens in many other progressive countries."

He knows there are some Labour MPs and activists who would be wary of snuggling
up to Mr Clegg's party.

"The Liberal Democrats can talk out of one side of their mouth in one part of
the country and the other side in another," he said. "But I can't imagine the
Lib Dem Party being happy about a coalition with the Conservatives. It would be
bizarre and it might well destroy their party. Cameron and Clegg are like
Tweedledum and Tweedledee. They have similar backgrounds, looks, age and style
but different policies."

Mr Clegg seems open to the idea of a coalition with Mr Cameron. He has talked
about supporting the party that has a popular mandate, and made it clear he
finds Mr Brown patronising. "Cameron and Clegg get very personal about Gordon,"
said Mr Johnson. "They should be big enough not to be so sensitive. Sometimes
Gordon is difficult, he is very driven, but you should not base your party's
future on personal feeling about an individual."

Might it have been sensible for Mr Brown to have tried a little harder to cosy
up to the Lib Dems? "Gordon doesn't do charm offensives. Clegg knows that Brown
is strong on constitutional issues, and he ought to recognise how far he has
come from being a natural 'first past the post' man. The expenses scandal made
Gordon think again. Supporting an AV vote was a big step and so was his plan for
fixed-term parliaments."

Maybe it would be easier for Mr Clegg to do a deal with a different Labour
leader. Some Lib Dem grandees say they would prefer David Miliband or Mr Johnson
himself. "I don't know if that's true. They're not picking our leader. If we get
to that position [of a hung Parliament] Gordon would have done a huge amount to
bring us back from the brink. We were dead and buried before Christmas. Compared
to where we were, a hung Parliament would be seen as huge transformation. Gordon
could stay as long as he wanted."

Orphaned at the age of 12, Mr Johnson was raised by his sister on the wrong side
of the tracks in West London, around the corner from where Mr Cameron now lives.
Some Labour MPs think that his impoverished childhood would make a perfect
contrast to the Tory man's privileged upbringing.

Mr Johnson is relieved, however, that he didn't replace Mr Brown as leader last
year. "I wouldn't have been as good as Gordon, that's for sure."

Does he think that if he had gone to Eton he would have been more determined to
get the top job? "Maybe if I'd gone to university," he said. "You have to ask,
do you want it that much? And do you think you can do it? You have to be
brutally honest with yourself."

Life and times Born May 17, 1950.

Orphaned at 12, brought up in Notting Hill by his sister

Education Left Sloane Grammar School at 15 to stack shelves in Tesco

Career Postman. In 1992, general secretary, Union of Communication Workers.
Elected MP for Kingston upon Hull West & Hessle, 1997. Junior Minister, Trade
and Industry 1999, Education 2003. Minister, Work and Pensions, 2004, Trade
2005, Education 2006, Health 2007. Appointed Home Secretary last year. In 2007
beaten for Labour deputy leadership

Family By 20 he was married with three children. Remarried in 1991. He and his
wife, Laura, have a nine-year-old son

Quick fire

Ballroom dancing or rock'n'roll?

Rock'n'roll Hair or David Hare?

Hair, I saw the original V-necks or round necks?

V-necks Violin or guitar? Guitar Radio 6 or Radio 4?

Radio 4 Bentley or Beetle?

Beetle Rolls-Royce or Stretch Hummer?

Rolls-Royce Drainpipes or flares?

Neither Bacon and eggs or croissants?

Bacon and eggs Elvis or Springsteen?

Springsteen TV or radio?

Radio Letters or e-mails?

Letters

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Alan Johnson, the Home Secretary, believes that we "have to kill this
argument that coalition government is dangerous. I don't have a horror of
coalitions"
PORTRAIT BY CHRIS HARRIS FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

AS QUIET AS A WILD WEST TOWN BEFORE A SHOOT-OUT

LENGTH: 629 words


QUENTIN LETTS

MARTIN Bell, embodiment of political purity, lodestar of the British dry
cleaning industry, descended on Buckingham. He urged that constituency's voters
to boot Speaker Bercow (their MP) sharply up the backside ñ and out of the
Commons.

'We are in the backwash of a most appalling expenses scandal,' said Mr Bell,
wearing one of the white suits which have become his trademark. How he ever
dares sit down to a bowl of spaghetti bolognese I can not imagine.

'The scandal is much worse than it was in 1997,' continued Mr Bell, in the tones
he once used for reporting from war zones for the BBC.

'Mr Bercow has questions attached to his name. When he became Speaker I felt
that he deserved a chance. I now feel his personal example has been wanting.'

Buckingham listened politely, if at all. The streets were so empty we could have
been in a Wild West town shortly before a Wyatt Earp shoot-out.

At Roger's greengrocery the proprietor said locals were confused.

They did not know what to make of their scandal-spattered MP. We stood glumly in
the door of the shop (trade was light) and stroked our chins in melancholy
silence.

Buckingham has had its share of scoundrels ñ one of its MPs was Robert Maxwell ñ
but an editorial in The Spire parish magazine suggested that patience is
dwindling.

It talked of MPs lacking a 'strong moral compass' and 'having difficulty
distinguishing between fair expenses and lining their own pockets'.

Mr Bell's arrival perked things up slightly. He was there to campaign for John
Stevens, a former Tory MEP who once defected to the Lib Dems but is now standing
as an independent.

Mr Stevens has big hair and wears the sort of bespoke ankle boots that will set
you back a small fortune in Jermyn Street.

A former merchant banker, he is not short of a bob. He and Mr Bell posed for
photographs outside Buckingham's old gaol. Very pointed!

One or two supporters of Mr Stevens held blue placards saying 'Make History!
Vote Independent'.

Mr Bell was soon having his hand pumped by retired postman Ron Lake, a
Conservative supporter but uncertain about Mr Bercow.

'He is a better Speaker than Gorbals Mick but I have lost a lot of faith,' said
Ron, 76. 'There have been a lot of snouts in the trough. I am sitting on the
fence.'

His wife Sue, a former trade union rep, said: 'Whoever's elected, we're going to
be the ones paying.'

Georgina Gunn, 39, usually voted Lib Dem but was intending to vote for UKIP, who
are fielding Nigel Farage.

Glenys Angood, 64, was normally Labour but this time had not decided. Mrs Gunn
was appalled by the sums Mr Bercow had claimed in his Commons perks. By now Mr
Stevens was exchanging hostilities with a Bercow supporter.

This flat-capped old gent was unsettled by the personal nature of attacks on the
Squeaker. The same view was raised by a grandmotherly figure at a public meeting
at lunchtime.

This reluctance to hear the local MP attacked may be bad news for the gloriously
rude Mr Farage, who can hardly pass a daisy without taking a swipe at it.

But Mr Farage has public profile. He is funny and direct. The drier, more
discursive Mr Stevens is little known, which is perhaps why he has persuaded a
volunteer to dress in a dolphin costume, holding the banner 'Bercow Out!'

The dolphin is called Flipper, as in flipping properties to benefit from Commons
expenses rules.

Feeling a proper fool, I conducted a brief interview with the Flipper, or at
least the unidentified voice inside him.

It turned out he once delivered leaflets for Mr Bercow but was now disgusted by
the man.

'Betty Boothroyd was an admirable Speaker,' said Mr Bell. 'She set an example to
be followed.'

Mr Stevens said he hoped the voters would show their 'anger' but Mr Bell
preferred a different word: 'I'd go for indignation. Righteous indignation.'

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Telegraph jury Time for readers to have their say

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 534 words


Relve Spread Age: 30 Lives: With friends Job: Graduate student Constituency:
Battersea Last time: Labour This time: Undecided Overall, I was most impressed
with Nick Clegg's performance, probably because I wasn't expecting it. I don't
think Brown was doing badly but my yearning for change is too strong, so based
on this debate, my vote would lie between Cameron and Clegg.

Jules Watson Age: 40 Lives: With wife and daughter Job: Restaurateur
Constituency: Richmond Park Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative Nick Clegg made strong comments. Gordon Brown was banging on about
leading the recovery, but wasn't it his government that led us here? Cameron
rather lacking in deep content and should have had an answer to the cuts
question.

Melissa Newman Age: 52 Lives: With husband and three children Job: Housewife
Constituency: Guildford Last time: Conservative This time: Probably Conservative
David Cameron was the weakest - too many personal stories. Gordon Brown made his
claims for change, but Labour has had 13 years. It's too little, too late. I
shall give the Lib Dems more attention now, but can they deliver on their
policies? David Pagan Age: 44 Lives: With wife and two children Job: Finance
manager Constituency: Solihull Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably
Lib Dem Cameron sounded sincere and polished (Blair-lite) but didn't really give
any details behind his manifesto. Brown seemed slightly ill at ease. Clegg was
more prepared to give details behind his policies and seemed more open and
honest. Narrow win for Clegg, Cameron second and Brown third.

Clifford Forsyth Age: 67 Lives: With wife. Has two sons Job: Retired IT
technician Constituency: Harrow West Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Ukip The debate was surprisingly good. Brown and Clegg handled it like pros and
Cameron looked uncomfortable squeezed in the middle. Brown was really good on
immigration and put forward the idea that we have to give work to the people in
Britain, which none of the others said.

Shelly Asquith Age: 19 Lives: With parents Job: Marketing assistant
Constituency: Chelmsford Last time: Not eligible This time: Labour Gordon Brown
seemed very confident on what he wanted to do. Cameron stressed the need for
discipline in the justice and education systems, dismissing the need for
rehabilitation. Nick Clegg seemed the most normal, and I liked how he personally
addressed each questioner.

Peter Wood Age: 57 Job: Economic consultant Lives: With wife and two daughters
Constituency: Edinburgh South Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative Clegg was Mr Reasonable. Gordon Brown was Mr Solid, Mr 'I know what
I'm doing'. David Cameron was trying to say the country is in a mess but he
looked a bit over- rehearsed. But they all had a good show.

Rachel Clarke Age: 39 Lives: Alone Job: Head of social media at digital
marketing firm Constituency: Brentford and Isleworth Last time: Conservative
This time: Tory/Lib Dem All started nervously. They should be banned from using
anecdotes that start: "I met a person last week and they said..." Brown pushed
the record numbers of teachers and police, but Clegg was right about there being
too much paperwork.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Clegg and Gordon Brown shake hands as David Cameron looks on last
night
KEN MCKAY / ITV

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 16, 2010 Friday

Lord Monckton and the "birthers"

BYLINE: Richard Adamsguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 439 words

ABSTRACT

Richard Adams: Former Thatcher adviser and Tory peer gives succor to the
swivel-eyed "born in Kenya" smear of Obama at Tea Party rally

FULL TEXT

Is there no end to the delights of his lordship Christopher Monckton, also known
as Viscount Monckton of Brenchley? Or perhaps it would be accurate to ask: is
there no beginning to the delights of Lord Monckton?

To the list of his eccentric views on , Europe,  and ... well, most things, we
can add his public subscription to the "birther" cause: the idea that Barack
Obama may have been born in Kenya and is therefore not the legitimate president
of the United States of America.

The vigilant blogger , now at the Washington Post,  to tea party-ers at the Mall
in Washington DC, at an event organised by , the right-wing-funded astroturf (as
in, fake grass roots) noise machine:

"America!" said Monckton at the start of his speech. "Land of opportunity! You
can be born in Kenya and end up as president of the United States!"

That remark was well received in the crowd, if not as boisterously applauded as
Monckton's other jokes. After the speech ... a reporter from USA Today and I
both asked Monckton whether he was joking.

"I have no idea where he was born," said Monckton, who was working the crowd and
signing autographs. "What I do find strange is that the public records of his
Hawaiian birth have been sealed, and can not be obtained by the public. His
lawyers have spent a lot of money trying to seal the records of his public life.
All of those records should be open to the public, as they always were for
previous presidents."

I pointed out to Monckton that the state of Hawaii released  nearly two years
and ago, and that the persistent challenges to his citizenship have inspired
some members of the military to refuse to serve under Obama. "The effective
classification of all of these documents of his early life is surely contrary to
the spirit of freedom and openness in the Democratic west," said Monckton. "It's
bound to raise questions in some peoples' minds. However! I have no idea where
he's born, but it made a nice joke."

In fact, the  and confirmed by the Republican governor and state of Hawaii.
There is no question of that, and to suggest otherwise is to put yourself into a
very small and unhappy subset. Monckton's "nice joke" is on himself.

Luckily for the Conservative party, it parted ways with Monckton some time ago.
His lordship is currently a member of the .

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Fear of Tory win spooks Europe;
The EU has barely figured in the campaign, but it is occupying minds elsewhere.
John Lichfield reports

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1337 words


A spectre is haunting Europe - the spectre of Toryism. From the celebrated
opening words of the Communist Manifesto in 1848, it may seem a dizzy leap to
the Conservative Party Manifesto 2010. All the same, European capitals are
surveying the British election campaign with increasing anxiety. There is no
recent precedent for a party so virulently Eurosceptic, or europhobic, as David
Cameron's "New Tories" taking office in a large EU member state.

The founding text of Marxism is certainly more radical than the eight paragraphs
out of 120 pages that represent the founding wisdom of "Daveism" on Europe.
According to the Tory manifesto, the European Union should become a loose
"association" of states (reopening an argument that Britain lost more than 50
years ago). In the meantime, there should be more opt-outs and exceptions for
Britain, including on criminal justice and the European charter of fundamental
rights.

There will be a law to ensure a referendum on any future transfer of powers to
the EU. A Tory Britain will never join the euro. On the surface, there is
nothing especially revolutionary in all of that. No Ukip-like threat to leave
the EU; no attempt to repeal the Lisbon reform treaty. All the same, continental
governments are worried. According to a survey by the ConservativeHome website,
more than 40 per cent of Tory candidates favour outright withdrawal or a
"fundamental renegotiation" of EU membership.

Alain Richard, a Socialist former French defence minister and close watcher of
British and European politics, said: "For many months there has been a tendency
to say 'Oh, Cameron is British. He is pragmatic. There will be no real problem.
Anyway, he may never be elected'. That mood is now changing, in Paris and in
Berlin and elsewhere. Judging from the conversations I have had, there is
growing realisation that a Cameron government could be a serious threat to the
stability of the European Union, with potentially dangerous consequences for all
of us at a time of recession. The mood now, even for centre-right governments
like in Paris and Berlin, is 'Let's hope Cameron is not elected'."

Other voices in Brussels and Berlin suggest that an aggressively, or passively,
Eurosceptic Tory government would mostly damage Britain's own interests - not
those of the EU. Chancellor Angela Merkel of Germany is hardly a euro-visionary,
as the Greek government has discovered to its cost. However, she remains icily
furious at Mr Cameron's decision last year to abandon the mainstream, vaguely
federalist, centre-right European movement, the European People's Party, in
favour of a rag-bag of small Eastern European nationalist parties. "Under
Cameron the UK would be in danger of becoming an irrelevance in Europe," said
one source in Ms Merkel's Christian Democratic Party this week.

The same message - "You need us more than we need you" - was publicly
communicated to Mr Cameron on Monday by the secretary general of the jilted EPP.
"[The Tories] have no influence and they have nothing to say within the EU
institutions right now," said Antonio Lopez-Isturiz, who is also a Spanish Euro
MP. "Being left out of the main political institutions in the EU is a mistake
... I believe that David Cameron will make the pragmatic choice after the
elections to come back [into the EPP. Otherwise] the British voice [in Europe]
will be [Baroness] Catherine Ashton. Is that what they want?"

Nicole Ameline, a centre-right French deputy and co-president of the
Anglo-French parliamentary friendship association, is convinced that a Cameron
government would buckle down to European realities. "I have confidence in
British pragmatism," she said (using the P-word again). "I dare to hope that,
once in power, a Conservative government would recognise the seriousness of the
present economic crisis and would accept the need for creative and cooperative
responses at European level."

There has been a relative Tory reluctance to discuss Europe during the campaign
(only eight paragraphs in the manifesto, after all). A senior European
Commission official in Brussels predicts - 70 years after 1939-1940 - a kind of
"phoney war" if the Conservatives are elected on 6 May. "My guess is that not
much will happen initially with the Tories. They will keep a low profile on
Europe . I think Merkel and [French President Nicolas] Sarkozy will try to
embrace them in the large centre-right family [the EPP] again. But then we'll
have to see."

Depending on your viewpoint, this could be the best of times or the worst of
times for a Conservative-led Britain to wrestle with its partners in the
European Union. Far from the relentless, federalist conspiracy of Ukip
nightmares, the EU is drifting and leaderless. The ratification of the Lisbon
reform treaty has not produced the stronger leadership, or "increased
visibility", or sense of popular purpose, promised during eight years of
negotiations. To some voices in France, for instance, the real threats to EU
unity in 2010 are not David Cameron and Britain but Angela Merkel and a newly
self-confident, and even selfish, Germany.

The EU, enlarged and semi-reformed, has already moved much closer to what
moderate Tories say they want: a community of states founded on a single, free
market and a desire to defend Europe-wide common interests on issues like the
environment. Talk of moving to an "association" of states - viz the Tory
Manifesto - is unhelpful, say mainstream, continental politicians. Britain lost
that argument in the 1950s.

The EU is founded on the twin principles of shared sovereignty and common
legislation - where desirable. Without them, the single European market, which
Tories profess to support, could never have existed and would not survive. But
enlargement to 27 states, with more to come, and the decline of the federalist
religion in Germany and the Netherlands have changed many things. A subtle
Conservative government would have an opportunity to deflect a rudderless EU
towards some of Britain's long-stated goals: more free trade in services; even
less spending on agriculture; further enlargement.

"The problem is that this is not an argument you can easily make with the modern
Conservatives," said one senior member of President Sarkozy's centre-right
party. "We find that we can no longer speak the same language as them on Europe
... Cameron seems to me to have made a devil's pact with his backbenchers and
the British press. He can abandon the whole of Thatcherism so long as he is more
Thatcher than Thatcher on Europe."

Alain Richard, French defence minister from 1997 to 2002, says that there is no
reason why a Cameron government could not obtain part of its European shopping
list: a couple of opt-outs and a watered-down draft law on the regulation of
hedge funds. "But would that be enough for the Conservative backbenchers and the
Eurosceptic press?" he said. The anti-European virus has become so powerful in
Conservative Britain, he fears, that traditional British "pragmatism" no longer
applies. "With the EU already stumbling, a confrontation between London and the
rest could put the whole of the European project in danger," he added.

Senateur Jean-Leonce Dupont, the centrist president of the Anglo-French group in
the French senate, says that a confrontational approach by a Cameron government
might have perverse consequences. "Europe is going through an uncertain phase,"
he said. "But attack from a British government might drive the other EU
governments closer together and especially the French and the Germans." How
about that for the law of unintended consequences? Tory euro-scepticism jolting
Europe back on to the rails.

All in all, a Cameron government would find itself confronted by the conundrum
which has tormented British governments for 60 years. Left to ourselves, we
would never have invented a sovereignty-sharing, law-making European Union. Once
the EU exists, the game changes. Can Britain afford to flounce away from the
whole project?

Additional reporting by

Vanessa Mock and Tony Paterson

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

The Bell tolls for Blair;
The man with a mission to clean up politics is campaigning on the former PM's
doorstep. Andy McSmith joined him 'There is an imperative need to draw a line
under the expenses scandal'

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 1312 words


The man in the white suit and his friend in the dark, double-breasted suit
walked up to the cream gate and pressed the grey metal bell twice, but there was
no-one in. The only person who responded was a policeman who sauntered up the
road to see what was going on.

The house, a magnificent property dating from the Restoration period, is the
country home of Tony and Cherie Blair, who live in the only constituency in
Great Britain where absolutely no one will be voting Labour on 6 May.

Martin Bell, that veteran campaigner for cleaning up parliament and breaking the
hold of party whips, was in the vicinity trying to drum up support for an
independent candidate, John Stevens. They were hoping to see the constituency's
most famous couple to canvass their support, but the only sound from across the
high wall was the drone of a motor mower. The Blairs have invested a lot of
money in their magnificent garden, which leads down to an ornamental lake. The
view is fabulous.

It's the Blairs' bad luck that the village where they have made their home is
just inside the parliamentary seat of Buckingham, which has been held since 1997
by John Bercow, elected Speaker of the House of Commons after his predecessor,
Michael Martin became a casualty of the expenses scandal.

There is a decades-old convention that none of the main parties puts up a
candidate in the Speaker's seat, because his job requires him to be above
politics. It's a convention agreed by politicians without reference to the
voters, and may not last many more years, judging by the resentment it has
aroused in Buckingham.

The irony is that if John Bercow had run again as a Conservative, as he has in
three previous elections, he would sail home. In 2005, he collected more than 60
per cent of the vote. As it is, he will be the first speaker ever to have a real
fight on his hands at election time.

A flock of candidates has moved into Buckingham to fill the vacuum left by the
Labour and Liberal Democrat parties. At least eight have got their names onto
the ballot paper. There could be more by the time nominations close next week.
Most will be lucky if their vote hits more than double figures, but two have
makeshift organisations behind them and are knocking holes in Mr Bercow's vote.
They are Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, whose politics are well to
the right of Mr Bercow's, and Mr Stevens, to his left.

Mr Stevens is a former Conservative MEP for the Thames Valley region, who was
deselected prior to the 1999 European elections, because he was far too
enthusiastic about the EU for his party's taste. He set up a new political
organisation for pro-EU Tories, which didn't last long then joined the Liberal
Democrats, but parted company with them a year ago.

His cause has been taken up by Martin Bell, a former BBC journalist who made his
political debut standing on an anti-corruption ticket in Tatton, which was one
of the safest Tory seats in the country until Bell took it from them.

Since he stood down in 2001, Mr Bell has been trying to encourage independent
candidates to come forward to break the hold of the party system. He thinks
that, if the speaker were defeated, it would send a salutary shock through the
whole system.

"The speaker has more unfettered power than almost anyone else in the country,
apart from the prime minister, so it's very important that the speaker is
universally respected and admired," he said. "I thought John Bercow deserved a
fair wind in the early months but now I feel that his personal conduct has been
wanting."

John Stevens, sitting alongside Mr Bell at a sparsely attended public meeting in
Buckingham Town Hall, was less restrained in attacking his opponent, both over
his political record and his expenses. Mr Bercow "flipped" his second home
between London and Buckingham to avoid capital gains tax. He has been told he
must pay back £6,508. In the 1980s he was an ardent Thatcherite but he has
mellowed in middle age, and his wife Sally is a Labour party activist.

"He has become speaker through an extraordinary political parambulation from the
extreme right to the soft Blairite left," Mr Stevens said. "It was the most
partisan election of a speaker in living memory.

"The speaker is symbolic of the whole parliamentary system. There is an
absoutely imperative need to draw a line under the expenses scandal. Defeating
the Speaker, which has never happened before, would send a dramatic and
cathartic message."

Mr Bercow's other main opponent, Nigel Farage, was leader of UKIP until he
resigned to concentrate on contesting Buckingham. He had a highly publicised
campaign launch this week, and will collect votes from locals who think that
Gordon Brown and David Cameron are soft on immigration.

Random conversations with voters in Buckingham suggest that a huge proportion of
them know they will not be able to vote for any of the main parties because
their local MP is the speaker. This is not a popular development. Whatever they
think of politicians, they don't like being denied the right to vote as they
choose, and it may be that the long-term answer is - as Mr Stevens suggests - to
switch to the Australian system, under which the speaker ceases to be a
constituency MP.

As it is, Mr Bercow is campaigning with a green and gold rosette, representing
the colours of the House of Commons, and explaining to everyone he can reach
that it was not his idea to give the speaker a clear run, and to warn against
voting for fringe candidates. He reserves the most caustic remarks for Nigel
Farage.

"Mr Farage can shout and scream all he likes, but he would have no allies
whatsoever if he ever got into Parliament, and so he would have no influence,"
Mr Bercow told one voter as he was canvassing yesterday in the village of
Edlesborough.

Speaking to another, he said: "Electing a fringe candidate would be a very
retrograde step for the constituency. People are entitled to their views, but I
don't think the constituency wants to be represented by a singe-issue fanatic. I
don't want the constituency I love to become a laughing stock."

His other pitch is to point to his 13-year record as a constituency MP, taking
up "thousands" of cases. Going from door to door, he came upon a succession of
people who didn't like being denied the choice of voting for a political party,
but promised to vote for him anyway because of his local record.

The mood changed suddenly, though, when Mr Bercow approached George Zaleski, a
51-year-old computer engineer, who waved his arms and shouted at him to "get off
my property". Mr Zaleski has been off work suffering bouts of concussion from a
road accident three years ago, and felt that Mr Bercow should have supported him
when he lodged a complaint against the NHS. He will vote for Mr Stevens.
"Politicians should be selfless. They should be there to help people," Mr
Zaleski said.

Alan Grigg, a former parish councillor, passing by with a copy of the Daily
Telegraph under his arm, avoided talking to Mr Bercow though he possibly may
vote for him. "There are a lot of people inclined to vote for UKIP, and I don't
think everybody in Buckingham is a fan of John Bercow - but UKIP haven't a hope
in hell of actually getting in," he said. "I would have voted UKIP a few years
ago but it's too late now. We're too embedded in the EU."

Mr Bercow has not canvassed Tony or Cherie Blair, but hopes and expects that
they will vote for him. However, Mr and Mrs Blair will find a leaflet in their
letter box, left yesterday by Mr Stevens, suggesting that they might like to
lend their support to an independent. But given that Mr Stevens wants to
overturn the political system, on which Tony Blair's career was built, we can
assume that that is unlikely.

Buckingham

Result in 2005

* Con: Bercow, 27,748, 57.4%

* Lab: Greene, 9,619, 19.9%

* Lib-Dem: Croydon, 9,508, 19.7%

* UKIP: Williams, 1,432, 3%

* Majority 48,307

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MADDIE POLL SICKO

BYLINE: NEIL SYSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 57

LENGTH: 215 words


A WOULD-BE UKIP MP took part in a vile leaflet campaign blaming Madeleine
McCann's disappearance on her grieving parents, The Sun can reveal.

Helene Davies-Green, 62, delivered flyers titled "Ten Reasons Why Madeleine Was
Not Abducted" to Kate and Gerry's neighbours.

It was produced by the anti-McCann Madeleine Foundation, of which the wannabe
politician is a committee member.

Mrs Davies-Green's husband Grenville is the group's chairman.

The folk singer is standing in Cambridge South for the right-wing anti-Euro
party on May 6. Doctors Kate and Gerry, both 42, were left "horrified, angry and
upset" by the deliveries in their village of Rothley, Leics, last August. The
flyer claimed if Maddie died in the family's holiday flat in Portugal in 2007,
those who caused or allowed the d e a t h "g o t away with it".

Mrs Davies-Green also handed out p a m p h l e t s branding the M c C a n n s '
s p o k e s m a n "a master media manipulator" with the group's founder Tony
Bennett in Oxford last year.

The foundation has claimed Madeleine, three, was NOT abducted in Praia da Luz
and that her parents were to blame for her "death".

A UKIP spokesman said last night: "Whilst having every sympathy with the McCanns
and their predicament, UKIP believes in the freedom of speech."

n.syson@thesun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Vanished... Maddie
Vile... Mrs Davies-Green with Bennett

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

I feel like self-harming with a poll booth pencil

BYLINE: Frankie Boyle

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 502 words


IT'S an important decision, time is running out and the choices are limited.

Thanks to the election we can finally empathise with single women in their
thirties.

I hope you will do what any sensible citizen will do this May. Look at the
country around you, march straight to your nearest polling station and force one
of those tiny pencils deep into your barely beating heart.

What a choice we have ahead of us - hardly an exciting opportunity for change,
more like sifting through the damaged goods shelf at Asda.

Do we choose the one that's far too rich to actually be good for us or the one
with the cartoon face printed on it? The Tories say they will bring about
change. Yes, a change from poverty caused by incompetence to poverty caused by
evil.

The Labour party went all out to launch their manifesto with a bang - and it was
lovely to see the photo of Gordon and prominent Labour MPs grimacing like they
were stood near a sewage plant on a hot day.

Brown seems to have adopted a "smile and wave, smile and wave" policy. He looks
like someone getting a b*** j** in his car while his wife passes in a Ford
Fiesta.

Simon Cowell turned down an offer to work with the Labour Party.

If the man who can turn Susan Boyle into a star thinks he can do nothing for
you, it's time to stick your face in a meat grinder and live in a darkened shed.

Brown thought he'd made a smart move opening a swish new hospital in Birmingham,
but it backfired on him - no one in Birmingham wants a place that's going to
keep them alive. At a recent press conference, the Tories revealed their
representative for "young people from working-class districts that had been
forgotten" - 77-year-old internationally famous Sir Michael Caine.

Perfect. Put down your knives children, the old guy who cleans Batman's shoes is
here to help.

I imagine the last time Sir Michael connected with a teenager he had to get the
front of his Bentley repaired.

The Conservative manifesto is an "invitation to join the Government of Britain".

Sounds good, when do I start? I could do with a second house.

The Tories launched their manifesto in a power station that doesn't generate
electricity. A beautiful metaphor for the next five years under the Tories.

Burning They may as well have held it in an abattoir that slaughtered pensioners
and immigrants. But that was already booked by the BNP.

Nick Clegg's party are trying to paint him as a rebel. This from a man who looks
like he would leave a stag night early because he doesn't want to miss Holby
City.

UKIP want to ban all climate change Bills as they don't believe it exists.

You may find this worrying but personally if UKIP are running the country I
would appreciate any attempts to sink it beneath the burning tides.

Plaid Cymru are pledging protection for the vulnerable, especially by ending
cruelty to children.

Under new legislation they will no longer be told they are Welsh.

They say their manifesto reflects the conscience and values of the Welsh - it
must resemble a promotional leaflet for Spearmint Rhino.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 16, 2010 Friday 6:40 PM GMT

Post-Clegg, David Cameron is haunted by his own taunt: 'He was the future once'

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 757 words


If one were disposed to feel any sympathy for the pondlife we call politicians,
the poignant aspect of David Cameron's situation last night, as he was
outmanoeuvred by the youthful Nick Clegg, was the recollection of his own
aphorism, now come back to haunt him: "He was the future once." The Tory leader
and his modernisers are now in the desperate, delusionary state of a boy band
overtaken by younger, trendier rivals.

Meanwhile, in the Saul Alinsky Suite, the intellectual power-house in Wisteria
Mansions, the fight-back begins against the greatest Whig threat since 1688:

"Okay, everybody, have a seat - and remember to call me Dave. We need to have a
chat about what we should do in the light of my only moderately crushing victory
over Nick Clegg last night. Where's Francis?"

"He's on the phone to Common Purpose, asking for the line to take. And there's a
very strong message of support from David Davis."

"Oh good. Read it out."

"He says: 'Dave, I want you to know that even though you blew it last night you
still have my one thousand per cent support. Just because you crashed and burned
in front of ten million viewers is no reason to think the election is lost, even
if voters are deserting you in droves. It is far too early to talk about a
change of leader and I am loyally discouraging any such talk. All the same, as a
friend, I suggest there might be no harm in lining up a few trustees for a
religious foundation and investigating any vacancies for a Middle East peace
tsar. Be assured I shall be right behind you to the end, in less than three
weeks' time. Yours ever, David.'"

"That's good - very good. He's obviously on board, so that relieves a slight
doubt I had. Okay. Now here's how I see it. We should have listened to
Finkelstein - we still haven't modernised enough."

"Great, Dave! Go for it."

"From now on, I don't want to see anybody on my team wearing a tie, for the rest
of the campaign. It would be good if a few of you could get tattooed, but get
the slogan approved in advance, in case it's off-message. And last night I made
a mistake - No! Thank you for your loyalty, but I did make a tiny error of
judgement: I mentioned immigration. That mustn't happen again in this campaign.
If we're asked about it we say: a) There has been no significant immigration
into Britain since 1066; b) it is going down due to natural factors; c) it is an
issue only for the fruitcakes and closet racists of UKIP. Also, we're still
saddled with some heterosexuals - I mean bigots - voting for us and standing as
candidates. We have to see them off."

"Right on, Dave!"

"Clegg is strong on Europe: I thought we might trump him by ruling out any
referendum - ever - on anything remotely to do with the EU and we should commit
ourselves to joining the Euro right away - Thanks, yes, I think it's a winner.
Clegg is outbidding me on the youth thing. So I thought I might do the next
debate in rolled-up shirtsleeves and - here's the clever bit - short trousers.
You know, the really youthful look. What do you think, Anita, do you like the
idea?"

"Like it? I luvvittadeath! On the dress thing, though, I want you to wear a
Chairman Mao suit - made by a Savile Row tailor, of course, nothing sloppy. I
want you and the whole Politburo - I mean Shadow Cabinet - kitted out like that.
I tried to persuade Barack to do it in his campaign, but he shied off it. I
mean, you've already got the Little Blue Book - that Invitation to the
proletarian masses to join the government - it would accessorise perfectly with
a Mao suit."

"Should I use that Kennedy line again, you know: "Ask not what your country can
do about you..."

"No, Dave. I'll get you some quotes from Chairman Mao - much more radical than
that washed-out Kennedy stuff."

"Great - Oh, here's Oliver. What have you got, Oliver?"

"An utterly masterly master plan - an initiative so breathtakingly cerebral it
will have Willetts squirming in envy. It's called Even Bigger Society. It
involves the entire population doing compulsory voluntary service every day. The
preamble - I've managed to compress it into 54 pages - sets out its objective
"to release the power of the greatest individual of all - the State - to engage
in socio-psycho-holistic interface with the paradigmatic tropes of communitarian
creativity, within a liberating constraint of collective self-abdication..."
What do you think, Dave?"

"Brilliant, Oliver! I think you have just won us the prize we have been striving
after for so long - the exclusive support of the Guardian. People, we are
definitely getting there..."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 16, 2010 Friday 11:40 AM GMT

TV election debate: is there that much difference between them?

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 470 words


I love Alex Salmond's chutzpah, a constant source of amusement in my otherwise
drab life. On the radio this morning the SNP politician was complaining that
last night's election debate put Scottish people at a disadvantage because many
of the issues did not affect them. So, Alex, you want voters in England to ask
questions about devolved Scottish issues, over which they have no control, so
that Scots will find the debate more interesting?

I have more sympathy for UKIP's complaint that their leader should have been
allowed on, even though they obviously realised there was not a cat in hell's
chance of that happening, since they've never even had an MP elected to
Westminster.

But they are correct in pointing out that you could "put a Rizla paper" between
the major parties. This was not a debate over ideology - fundamentally they do
not massively disagree over principles - but on management styles. Clegg was
there mainly as an "alternative voice", and yet on every single major issue of
the day - crime, immigration, Europe and the economy - the Lib Dems are not
ideologically any different from the other two. All three parties are largely
out of step with the majority of the public on the first three issues at least,
or as politicians would prefer to put it, the public are out of step with them.

And UKIP would have more of a point in arguing that Nigel Farage or Lord Pearson
have as much right to appear as Nick Clegg. After all, at the last national vote
held by the much fairer proportional representation system UKIP were almost 3
per cent ahead of the Liberal Democrats. If Westminster had PR, as the Lib Dems
hope, there would be four major parties in Britain.

As it was Clegg was hailed as the winner, although I tend to agree with Daniel
Hannan on this one. The actual substance of what he said, such as his bold
declaration that there is "good immigration and bad immigration", was utterly
vacuous - I've heard more profound Girls Aloud lyrics. But he looked the best,
and he was certainly less nervous than David Cameron who, I imagine, meant to
say North Korea, not China, when he mentioned possible nuclear threats.

If Cameron was nervous it's because he's on trial here - this is a job interview
for him, for the most important job in Britain. The public must decide whether
they want Gordon Brown as prime minister or David Cameron, which is why both men
are under intense scrutiny. Clegg cannot conceivably win this election, which is
why, whatever happened last night, he was always going to win this debate -
Anjem Choudary could have won against Brown and Cameron.

It's slightly dishonest, because by voting for Clegg we'd simply be delegating
the responsibility of choosing between Brown and Cameron to someone else. And,
judging by the chemistry last night, I'd guess he'd choose the former.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The Wembley way to decide who to vote for;
Disillusioned with Brown and Cameron? Just think of them as Portsmouth and
Chelsea

BYLINE: Frank Skinner

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 843 words


The televised leaders' debates are an interesting sideshow but I'm not sure that
they'll rinse away the bitter taste that informs this general election. We're
told that most people are voting for "the lesser of two evils" and that the main
thrust of the electorate's decision-making is against rather than for.

Theorists suggest that this is because of the general cynicism brought on by the
expenses scandal, or a general distrust of both main party leaders or the
inability of the Liberal Democrats, or any other party, to offer a viable
alternative. I watched the launch of the UKIP manifesto on TV this week. Their
31 per cent flat tax rate caused me to look up from my muesli but after the
outrages of MPs' expenses could anyone really vote for a party whose symbol is a
pound sign? The 2010 general election is a study in despair - a drama with no
heroes. The main protagonists are either despised, distrusted or dismissed, and
often all three.

I remember flitting around the country in a helicopter as part of the BBC's 1997
election coverage. As we flew back down to London, the darkness lifting and our
beautiful island waking beneath us, I turned to the pilot and said: "The dawn
breaks on Blair's Britain." I was not being ironic. We had spent the night, in
between assignments listening, on the helicopter radio to the Tory Government
crumbling - Michael Portillo gone, Malcolm Rifkind gone - a glorious landslide
of optimism washing away the old guard like the Red Sea closing on the Egyptian
army. Now that thrilling night was being followed by a new morning. Never, for
me, had politics seemed so dynamic, so exhilarating. How I'd love to feel that
way again.

Still, I'm all for making the best of a bad job. I like the Beckettian bleakness
of this year's election. Never has that X on the ballot paper seemed more apt -
a negative symbol for a negative vote. If only the polling booths could be wired
up so that each X was accompanied by that squelching sound effect they have on
Family Fortunes when a guess turns out to be not on the list. I like that the
Conservative Party is looking to win on the "we can't be any worse" ticket while
Gordon Brown is banking on a "better the devil you know" appeal.

I find myself really taking against every politician I see on TV or hear on the
radio, regardless of which party they represent, or whether I agree with what
they're saying.

I am so convinced that their motivations are all about power and personal glory
rather than public service, that I find myself screaming at the telly like I
only used to do when Cristiano Ronaldo was playing for Manchester United.

And it doesn't take much to get me going. I watched David Cameron - I chose him
at random rather than for any political reasons - in an "intimate profile piece"
on TV earlier in the week. He said: "Our aim is to make Britain the most
family-friendly country in Europe."

Family-friendly? Doesn't that suggest a low-brow, brightly coloured plastic
wonderland of unchallenging, unquestioning blandness - a CBeebies Britain so
relentlessly cuddly that the poor, the angry and all the other socially ugly
phenomena will have to be shovelled up and carted away in case they obscure the
synthetic scenery? That was the question I bellowed at my four walls.

I don't want to be that kind of voter, all angry and disillusioned. I don't want
to vote Labour just because I'd get such a kick from seeing Mr Cameron beaten
and washed up, the sheen scuffed, the bubble burst. I hate myself for savouring
that thought. It's not too hard to conjure up the image because Gordon Brown
looked that way for most of 2009. All I have to do is a bit of mental
Photoshopping.

So what's the answer? It seems that to come up with a more positive motive for
voting we need to distance ourselves from the election. We need to replace it
with something that we are not so embittered and disillusioned by: an analogy
for the election that we can consider objectively, learn from, and then use to
inform our vote on May 6. Let's try the FA Cup Final. This year's game features
Chelsea, the billionaire-owned representatives of one of the most affluent areas
in Great Britain. They have filthy rich players with a distinct air of decadence
about them. They are the elite.

Then we have Portsmouth FC, from a strong working-class town traditionally
associated with people of all races and backgrounds. The club has massive debts
and has just been relegated from the top flight. Their manager is dishevelled
and eccentric-looking but somehow admirable.

It's pretty obvious that, for the purposes of our analogy, Chelsea are the
Conservative Party and Portsmouth are Labour. Now all we have to do is search
our hearts and discover which one of these teams we'd instinctively like to see
win the FA Cup. Then we apply what we've learnt to the general election and all
the clouds will suddenly clear and we'll know not only who to vote for but also
that our motives are honest and heartfelt. I can almost hear that helicopter.

Never has the negative X on the ballot paper seemed more apt

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Haiku Herman, the/ poet and president. A/ fish out of water;
Europe

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 591 words


Toads mate passionately, a bird stands on one leg and several dead fish float on
a pond.

While Europe struggles to emerge from recession, Herman Van Rompuy, its first
President, aimed to get back to the "simple reality" of life yesterday by
publishing a collection of his poetic thoughts. Haiku Herman - as the
62-year-old former Belgian Prime Minister is known because of his fondness for
the traditional 17-syllable Japanese poem - insisted that he was as modest as
the verse he often produces during boring political meetings.

Dismissed by Nigel Farage of the UK Independence Party as a "damp rag" and "the
quiet assassin of European democracy", Mr Van Rompuy was chosen by the EU's 27
national leaders as their first permanent president last November. Since then he
has largely shunned the limelight and his one poem about Brussels, the city in
which he is king, suggests that he still feels overwhelmed by his new role:
"Different colours, tongues, towers and gods / I search my way."

Mr Van Rompuy's public unease could not contrast more with the selfconfidence of
Tony Blair, one of his main rivals for the job of President of the European
Council. The bashful Belgian was chosen partly because Nicolas Sarkozy and
Angela Merkel did not want to be overshadowed on the European stage. It is
tempting to see him reflecting his own awkwardness in some of his nature poems,
for example: "A gull on one leg / standing straight up in the sea / unaware of
the cold."

He also seems acutely aware of Mr Farage's complaint that nobody had ever heard
of him, writing: "Birds in concert, / one sings above all others. / I don't know
its name." And the bruising general election process that ends the careers of
politicians in Belgium as elsewhere may well have inspired "They changed the
water / of the pond. A few dead fish / were left behind." Mr Van Rompuy,
however, cautioned that he did not see many links between his poetry and
politics.

"Haiku is an awakening of the spirit - away from technocratic rationality, away
from the sophistication, attention seeking and glitter. Back to basics. Our time
is in need of simplicity," he said at his book launch yesterday.

"A haiku poet, in politics, cannot be extravagant, nor super-vain, nor
extremist," he added. "He should incorporate into his actions a sense of
balance, the desire for simplicity and harmony, the feeling of being part of a
larger part. A poet remains perhaps best away from politics, at least in
political action. In that sense I am a politician-haiku poet, rather than a
haiku poet-politician."

Nobutake Odano, the Japanese Ambassador to the EU, who heard Mr Van Rompuy
recite some of his haiku, was polite afterwards about the Belgian version of the
Japanese art, which did not always stick to the 17-syllable rule. "It is true
that haiku are deeply linked to the linguistic background but, having said that,
it is more important in the haiku to express feelings and ideas rather than
limiting it to the strict formality," Mr Odano said. "In that respect his works
obviously express his ideas and his personality."

Asked to assess the quality of the verse, Mr Odano replied diplomatically: "I am
not trained in haiku so I cannot make a judgment."

Jooris Van Hulle, a friend who encouraged Mr Van Rompuy to compile the anthology
with each poem written in Dutch and translated into English, French, German and
Latin, was confident that the book would be a hit. "It is good to have a process
of reflection as a politician," said Mr Van Hulle, " not always to be in a hurry
to take decisions."

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Van Rompuy: ode to simplicity
GEORGES GOBET / AFP / GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 16, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rising Green tide muddies the water for voters by the seaside

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth; Tom Baldwin; Laura Dixon

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 515 words


David Cameron, during his husky-hugging phase, used to tell voters who care
about the environment that they could "vote blue - go green".

While such sentiments have since been replaced by other slogans, the seat of
Brighton Pavilion may yet turn a shade of emerald without politicians of a more
traditional hue. The election in this seaside town has been made extremely
complicated by the rising tide of the Green Party.

The Greens launched their manifesto - "Fair is worth fighting for" - in a
seafront hotel yesterday with the boast that only they could tackle both climate
change and the economic crisis.

They propose higher taxes for the better-off to finance a Green "New Deal" that
would keep people in work and invest in the long-term restructuring of Britain's
energy infrastructure. Caroline Lucas, the party's leader and candidate in
Brighton Pavilion, said: "We believe we are on the edge of breaking through."
She said that she is "odds-on favourite" to win the seat and the party is
fielding more than 320 candidates, a record in its 30-year history. Britain is
the only leading European country not to have any Green MPs and the party has
made this Labourheld seat its top target this year.

An ICM poll, admittedly one commissioned by the Greens, put them eight points
ahead of the Tories and ten ahead of Labour in Brighton Pavilion.

Labour had a majority of more than 5,000 in 2005 but the current MP, David
Lepper, is retiring.

"Labour and Green together outweigh the Conservatives," Ms Lucas said. "People
are thinking, which one is most likely to keep the Tories out? Every shred of
evidence over the last five years suggests it is the Greens."

But she has yet to convince some natural Labour voters. Joyce Edmond-Smith said:
"With the first-past-thepost system the danger is that if you vote Green, the
Tories might get through the middle."

The two major parties are, however, clearly spooked by the Green surge. The
Greens are also clouding the picture in other parts of the country. In Oxford
East, Labour's Andrew Smith is defending a majority of 963 over the Lib Dems and
his task has been made harder by boundary changes. But the Greens are emerging
as rivals to the Lib Dems. One recent survey suggested that the Greens are the
preferred party of students now that two issues that swelled the Lib Dem vote,
Iraq and tuition fees, have less salience.

Much of the media attention given to minor parties has been swallowed up by the
BNP and UKIP but the Greens, now consistently getting 3 or 4 per cent in
national polls, stand the best chance of winning a seat.

What could just one Green MP hope to achieve? "We will be able to bring new
ideas to Parliament and that is desperately needed," Ms Lucas told The Times.
"One more Tory MP, one more Labour MP, frankly isn't going to make a
difference."

She has pointed out that "the length of time between the first Labour MP and the
first Labour government was 24 years". A Green government in 2034 then? She does
not go quite that far. "Once we get a foot in the door, more will come," she
said. Today, Brighton. Tomorrow, the planet.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Caroline Lucas, the Green Party leader, in Brighton yesterday where she
hopes to become the party's first MP
DAVID BEBBER FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Lib Dems dig in for battle in Brown's backyard;
Dunfermline and West Fife's Labour candidate insists the Prime Minister is the
party's secret weapon in a fight on his home turf

BYLINE: Alan Cochrane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 919 words


HAND grenades, fixed bayonets and ferocious hand-tohand fighting are normally
what are required when trying to reverse Liberal Democrat by-election victories.

However, that's not what the Labour candidate in Dunfermline and West Fife plans
to utilise.

Thomas Docherty - he insists on being given his full first name so as not,
presumably, to be confused with a certain colourful former football manager -
believes he has a secret weapon. It's called Gordon Brown.

This normally safe Labour seat was snatched sensationally by the Lib Dems'
Willie Rennie in a 2006 by-election, turning an 11,500 Labour majority into one
of 1,800 for himself.

And while other Labour candidates may feel that playing down their connection
with the Prime Minister offers their best chance of success, Mr Docherty claims
that he puts Mr Brown's name on every one of his election leaflets.

The Prime Minister and Sarah Brown signed his nomination papers and this
35-year-old, who describes himself as a communications consultant, says: "If I
could I would staple Gordon Brown to my side."

Although he represents the neighbouring constituency of Kirkcaldy and
Cowdenbeath, the Prime Minister's family home is in North Queensferry, which is
now in the Dunfermline and West Fife constituency.

Taking a break from canvassing a new private housing estate on Dunfermline's
eastern edge, peopled in the main by commuters to Edinburgh, Mr Docherty says:
"People want Gordon Brown here - after all he used to represent about one third
of this constituency - and they most definitely don't want David Cameron."

Arguably the most important issue here is the future of the naval dockyard at
Rosyth, on the constituency's southern edge.

The first sections of the giant HMS Queen Elizabeth aircraft carrier have
arrived for assembly at the base; other parts will follow in due course as will
refitting work for part of the Royal Navy's surface fleet.

With thousands of jobs safeguarded both at the dockyard and among outside
suppliers, Mr Docherty says: "If we didn't have Gordon Brown standing up for
Fife we probably would not have got this work and the carrier contract would
have been in jeopardy."

He insists that only Labour is absolutely committed to the carrier contract,
with both the Tories and Liberal Democrats saying that the ship's future could
be in doubt following a forthcoming strategic defence review.

Moreover, the Labour candidate says that a delay in the completion date had
actually benefited the dockyard as it meant that all the work could be done by
on-site workers, rather than being contracted out to other companies.

This view is hotly disputed by Mr Rennie, who says that Labour's two-year delay
is costing the taxpayer £1billion more than budgeted.

He also denies that the Lib Dems would support cancellation.

"The contracts have been signed; the work's under way. It would be bonkers to
cancel the carriers."

When it comes to national politics, he believes his party's tax plans are
attracting support.

When it comes to the economy he says that the phrase he hears frequently on the
doorsteps is: "Yer man Vince [Cable] has got it right."

As the sitting MP, Mr Rennie gets a bit of flak over the Westminster expenses
scandal and had to pay back £2,500 over wrongly submitted claims for office
rents and electricity bills, but believes that his handling of local issues will
make up for any problem on that front.

A firm believer in that tried and trusted Lib Dem policy of "pavement politics"
he says he has helped some 9,000 constituents with their problems - ranging from
Child Support Agency payments, through tax credits to pot holes in the road.

And there were encouraging signs for Mr Rennie during a walkabout in the High
Street, much revitalised since that 2006 by-election. He exchanges cheery banter
with voters in Giacomo's coffee shop, even if the best accolade he gets is "he's
the best o' a bad lot".

Perhaps significantly, Mr Rennie doesn't attack Gordon Brown in the PM's
backyard. "A lot of people here think he's been given a hard time by the press,"
says the Lib Dem candidate.

Still, his reception on the streets is better than many I've seen. He claims
credit, along with the local council, which is run by a Lib Dem/Scottish
National Party coalition, for that High Street facelift - which includes new
Primark and Debenham developments - and for a new high school for Dunfermline.

But he should be aware that it is precisely his connections with the council
that is to be used against him by Labour.

In the 2008 Glenrothes byelection Labour successfully targeted the council's
cuts in services to defeat the SNP and they plan another dose of the same to
discredit Mr Rennie.

Mr Docherty claims that Fife council has scrapped concessionary fares for
pensioners travelling outside the county, have increased home help charges and
have cut teacher numbers.

"Mr Rennie is very close to an unpopular council," says the Labour man.

Maybe so, but the defending MP is well dug in. Mr Docherty might yet need those
hand grenades.

THOMASDOCHERTY

PREVIOUS ELECTION RESULTS: DUNFERMLINE AND WEST FIFE 2006 By-Election turnout:
48.7% NUMBER OF VOTES PERCENTAGE OF VOTE CANDIDATE PARTY William Rennie Liberal
Democrat 12,391 35.8% Catherine Stihler Labour 10,591 30.6% Douglas Chapman SNP
7,261 21.0% Carrie Ruxton Conservative 2,702 7.8% John McAllion Scottish
Socialist 537 1.6% George Hargreaves Scottish Christian Party 411 1.2% Tom
Minogue National Alliance Against Tolls 374 1.1% Ian Borland UKIP 208 0.6% Dick
Rogers Common Good 103 0.3%

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Labour's Thomas Docherty takes time out for a hair cut, while the
Liberal Democrat incumbent Willie Rennie strikes an upbeat tone meeting voters
in Dunfermline's High Street
GORDON JACK/SCOTIMAGE.COM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Even the disaffected must heed calls to go and vote;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 182 words


I waS pleased to see the electoral commission's message: 'Make sure that nothing
stops you voting'.

The only way for us to have democracy of government 'for the people, of the
people, by the people' is for everybody to vote for something they want from a
party, especially those 40 per cent who never vote.

no vote will only mean no change and continued governance by the eU, for which
we did not vote. In fact nobody voted for it and nobody can get rid of it.

after voting all my life for the same party I feel totally betrayed and
disenfranchised by being denied the referendum we were promised by all the major
parties.

This time I am determined that I will have my say on europe by supporting
eurosceptic MPs or any party that will return our sovereignty, heritage, law and
culture to us by withdrawing from the eU which according to Taxpayers' alliance
costs this country £120billion per year.

of the manifestos published to date only the United Kingdom Independence Party
is saying it will leave the eU and use vast sums the eU costs us to put this
country right again.

Terry Lyden. Staines, Middx

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Munroe has Maloney's vote

BYLINE: Niall Hickman

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 72

LENGTH: 325 words


POlITICS and pugilism have been joined together by promoter Frank Maloney, who
hopes to ring the changes in the House of Commons by becoming an MP.

Maloney is standing for the UKIP party in East london's Barking constituency in
the General Election - a few weeks after his boxer Rendall Munroe hopes to take
another step towards a world title shot.

Former bin man Munroe, 29, faces Mexican Victor Terrazas next Friday in Coventry
in a final eliminator for the WBC super-bantamweight crown, with Maloney
promoting the leicester boxer's biggest fight of his career.

"I want to walk into Parliament with Rendall wearing the WBC belt around his
waist and Jason Booth with the IBF belt, as I have got him a clash with the
champion Steve Molitor this summer," said Maloney.

"Politics is a bit like boxing in that you take a lot of blows, but you have to
keep coming back. When I said I was going to stand as a candidate I was told I
would be made to look stupid. But they said that when I put lennox lewis in
against Tony Tucker for his first world title defence.

"Everyone said Don King would get me out of the way and take lennox with him -
but I worked with lennox throughout his career in which he became a legend. I
love proving people wrong.

"I am working an 18-hour day at the moment with promoting and trying to win the
votes of the good people of Barking. They tell me they are fed up with politics
and politicians, but they like the sound of what UKIP are all about. I've been a
UKIP member for 10 years so I haven't just decided to stand for Parliament on a
whim.

"So far I have been amazed how the voters have welcomed me into their homes and
with the amount of support."

As for Munroe, Maloney said: "I have always felt he has the talent and
dedication to be a world champion. This is a great chance for him and I am sure
he will take it."

Munroe lacks concussive punching power but should be busy enough to beat
Terrazas before tackling the world stage.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MALONEY: On the hustings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

And now, General Election [...]

BYLINE: Keith Aitken

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 67 words


.And now, General Election Competition Time. Please select your nomination for
the most mind-numbingly predictable headline of the week from the following
options: (a) Candidate obsessed with twittering turns out to be puerile jerk.
(b) Elderly multi-millionaire (pictured) to vote Tory.

(c) UKIP (slogan: "Sod the lot") fails to raise standard of election debate.

Be strong. Just three more weeks to go.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cameron double-speak over referendum on EU;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 154 words


Yet another example of Big Society double-speak comes from David Cameron in a
recent statement that voters were cheated out of a referendum on the eU by
gordon Brown - and that he "is determined that we will never let that happen
again".

however, he well knows that from the time that gordon Brown feverishly signed
the treaty we were irrevocably tied to its tyrannical clauses and, apart from
withdrawing entirely from it, there is nothing we can do about it.

David Cameron knows this yet he perpetuates his intention to hold a referendum
to escape the damning consequences of having to say the Conservatives will quit
the eU. typical politician's lies.

if the truth were told - which it never is, election time or otherwise, by the
LibLabCon trinity - the only political parties to offer absolute removal from
the european Union are the British national Party and the United Kingdom
independence Party.

Alastair Harper, Dunfermline

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Keith Aitken

BYLINE: Keith Aitken

SECTION: COLUMNS; 13

LENGTH: 66  words


And now, General Election Competition Time. Please select your nomination for
the most mind-numbingly predictable headline of the week from the following
options:

(a) Candidate obsessed with twittering turns out to be puerile jerk.

(b) Elderly multi-millionaire (pictured) to vote Tory.

(c) UKIP (slogan: "Sod the lot") fails to raise standard of election debate.

Be strong. Just three more weeks to go.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Even the disaffected must heed calls to go and vote;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 183  words


I WAS pleased to see the Electoral Commission's message: 'Make sure that nothing
stops you voting'.

The only way for us to have democracy of government 'for the people, of the
people, by the people' is for everybody to vote for something they want from a
party, especially those 40 per cent who never vote.

No vote will only mean no change and continued governance by the EU, for which
we did not vote. In fact nobody voted for it and nobody can get rid of it.

After voting all my life for the same party I feel totally betrayed and
disenfranchised by being denied the referendum we were promised by all the major
parties.

This time I am determined that I will have my say on Europe by supporting
Eurosceptic MPs or any party that will return our sovereignty, heritage, law and
culture to us by withdrawing from the EU which according to Taxpayers' Alliance
costs this country GBP 120billion per year.

Of the manifestos published to date only the United Kingdom Independence Party
is saying it will leave the EU and use vast sums the EU costs us to put this
country right again.

Terry Lyden.

Staines, Middx

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Munroe has Maloney's vote

BYLINE: By Niall Hickman

SECTION: SPORT; 72

LENGTH: 325  words


POLITICS and pugilism have been joined together by promoter Frank Maloney, who
hopes to ring the changes in the House of Commons by becoming an MP.

Maloney is standing for the UKIP party in East London's Barking constituency in
the General Election - a few weeks after his boxer Rendall Munroe hopes to take
another step towards a world title shot.

Former bin man Munroe, 29, faces Mexican Victor Terrazas next Friday in Coventry
in a final eliminator for the WBC super-bantamweight crown, with Maloney
promoting the Leicester boxer's biggest fight of his career.

"I want to walk into Parliament with Rendall wearing the WBC belt around his
waist and Jason Booth with the IBF belt, as I have got him a clash with the
champion Steve Molitor this summer, " said Maloney.

"Politics is a bit like boxing in that you take a lot of blows, but you have to
keep coming back. When I said I was going to stand as a candidate I was told I
would be made to look stupid. But they said that when I put Lennox Lewis in
against Tony Tucker for his first world title defence.

"Everyone said Don King would get me out of the way and take Lennox with him -
but I worked with Lennox throughout his career in which he became a legend. I
love proving people wrong.

"I am working an 18-hour day at the moment with promoting and trying to win the
votes of the good people of Barking. They tell me they are fed up with politics
and politicians, but they like the sound of what UKIP are all about. I've been a
UKIP member for 10 years so I haven't just decided to stand for Parliament on a
whim.

"So far I have been amazed how the voters have welcomed me into their homes and
with the amount of support."

As for Munroe, Maloney said: "I have always felt he has the talent and
dedication to be a world champion. This is a great chance for him and I am sure
he will take it."

Munroe lacks concussive punching power but should be busy enough to beat
Terrazas before tackling the world stage.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MALONEY: On the hustings

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              181 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Cameron double-speak over referendum on EU;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 154  words


YET another example of Big Society double-speak comes from David Cameron in a
recent statement that voters were cheated out of a referendum on the EU by
Gordon Brown - and that he "is determined that we will never let that happen
again".

However, he well knows that from the time that Gordon Brown feverishly signed
the Treaty we were irrevocably tied to its tyrannical clauses and, apart from
withdrawing entirely from it, there is nothing we can do about it.

David Cameron knows this yet he perpetuates his intention to hold a referendum
to escape the damning consequences of having to say the Conservatives will quit
the EU. Typical politician's lies.

If the truth were told - which it never is, election time or otherwise, by the
LibLabCon trinity - the only political parties to offer absolute removal from
the European Union are the British National Party and the United Kingdom
Independence Party.

Alastair Harper, Dunfermline

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              182 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday

Campaign 2010: Battlegrounds: The Lakes: rural idyll is setting for a closely
fought drama: John Harris continues his tour of Britain in Cumbria, where
disquiet and disaffection lie beneath the beautiful landscape

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 943 words


In off-season Ambleside, the neurotic pace of the election campaign seems like
the stuff of another universe, such that even talking about it feels like bad
manners. Who'll have enough time to spare in David Cameron's DIY utopia? Is
Labour's manifesto a centre-left watershed or Blairite dud? From the lakeside
ice-cream stands and outdoor kit shops, you can sense the essential answer:
sssshhhhhh! Who cares?

But wait. In its own quiet way, the Cumbrian constituency of Westmorland and
Lonsdale is brimming with drama. The Liberal Democrats ended 50 years of Tory
dominance here in 2005, with a 267-vote majority. Even favourable boundary
changes have only put up that number - "notionally", of course - to 860-odd. So,
the Conservatives want their ball back, and seem to have spent barrowloads of
money. Meanwhile, the Lib Dems are spurning the Sturm und Drang of ideological
battle in favour of the political small change streaked through the Westmorland
Gazette.

Westmorland and Lonsdale includes council wards whose names are supremely
evocative: Whinfell, Windermere Applethwaite, Kendal Mintsfeet. The economy is
largely split between tourism and farming, and people in the latter seem as
troubled as ever. Plenty of hill-farmers make far less than £10,000 a year;
particularly among those with dairy herds, there is bitter frustration about the
big supermarkets' behaviour.

Underneath the idyllic landscape is a mess of disquiet and disaffection (the
aftershocks of two bouts of foot and mouth are still playing out), crystallised
in the widespread belief that in the next few decades, Cumbrian farming could
slide towards virtual extinction.

The sitting Lib Dem MP is Tim Farron, a 39-year-old native of Preston who has a
guileless, perma-smile approach that puts one in mind of a younger Alan
Titchmarsh. I meet him canvassing in Kendal, where he parries doorstep questions
about zebra crossings and VAT on Mountain Rescue equipment, and talks me through
his five frantic years as MP, and his biggest project: a quest to keep the
town's general hospital as a going concern. Thus far, he has secured the future
of - among other things - cancer treatment, the maternity unit and mental
health. How I wonder, did he do it? The answer comes with a Titchmarshian
glimmer: "By being a pain in the arse."

An hour later, Farron takes his seat at the Sun hotel in Windermere, at a
hustings organised by the Federation of Small Businesses. The chair is the
splendidly named Cuthbert Culshaw, who has obviously decided to put in as little
work as he can get away with - which, when it comes to Ukip candidate, John
Mander, makes for some very rum scenes: bonkers and epic contributions that take
in Edward Heath, the Nazis, and the claim that humanity should be producing more
carbon dioxide ("it's good for plants"), all followed by a limp "thank-you" from
Culshaw, and the passing of the question to the next guy.

I can picture him chewing over the Slaughter of the Innocents with his
characteristic brio: "Thank-you very much, Mr Herod. Now, Graham . . ."

This is where I meet Farron's aspiring nemesis, a Northern Irish Tory named
Gareth McKeever, who has lived here since 2008. Superficially, he is urbane and
PR-minded, with a CV that includes working for Morgan Stanley. When I get out my
notepad and ask him why he's a Tory, he decides to play to the Guardian gallery
by talking at length about 15-year-old girls getting pregnant because of welfare
entitlements, and the associated scourge of benefit malingerers. Progressive
Cameroonian sunshine is not quite his style.

When someone brings up the alleged scourge of EU regulation, he mentions a
business in Sedburgh whose owner is bemoaning new EU requirements on the
cleanliness of air-conditioning systems. "If you want to stop the spread of
diseases," he says, "you need to make sure people wash their hands. Diseases
aren't spread through the air in the way that this regulation seems to want to
stop."

By now, what with the Ukip candidate's eccentricities, Cuthbert Culshaw, the
room's stifling heat, and the fact that the two women next to me have almost
choked on their free hotpot, I can take no more. I yelp: "Legionnaires'
disease!"

McKeever blows my cover by introducing me to the audience. "I don't think people
in Sedburgh are too worried about legionnaires' disease," he says. They perhaps
should be: as a brief bit of subsequent googling brings up, a 2002 outbreak in
nearby(ish) Barrow-in-Furness killed seven. But whatever, eh?

The rest passes in a haze of tedium, borderline nonsense and evidence that in a
close race, the leading candidates stick to the same script - captured by
Farron's and McKeever's attempts to square their supposed green credentials with
opposition to local wind-farms. The only light relief comes in a Kenneth
Williams-esque response from the floor: "If you're pushing wind," says one man,
"you're pushing at a closed door."

The air is filled with guffaws and the smell of hotpot; 10 minutes later, an
almost comically indifferent Cuthbert Culshaw announces the end.

In nearby fields, Farron and McKeever placards seem to be running at 50:50,
though local tipsters claim that Farron's attempt to make himself part of the
local furniture has paid off, and he may even increase his majority. Given that
this is Tory target number 14, that would be a titanic achievement - though as I
kill the post-hustings pain with a couple of drinks in Ambleside, one troubling
thought springs to mind: in this gloriously sedate corner of the constituency,
would anyone actually notice?

Watch John Harris as he continues his general election tour of Britain at
guardian.co.uk/commentisfree

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              183 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday

General election 2010: Which party is promising the most for cyclists?

BYLINE: Helen Piddguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 794 words

ABSTRACT

Helen Pidd: Ukip wants to make cyclists get off and walk, Labour pledges to
treble parking at stations and the Greens say they'll make roads safer for
bikes. Do you believe them?

FULL TEXT

In my , I gave Labour some rare praise for introducing their wondrous Cycle To
Work Scheme. But leafing through their  manifesto yesterday, I could find just
one mention of anything bike-related, and that was a lonely promise to treble
the number of secure cycle storage spaces at train stations.

Now, I'm all for that idea - it still beggars belief that the shiny new St
Pancras station in London managed to find space for  which charges a pound per
floret of broccoli, yet relegated all bike racks to a far end of the very
distant carpark with no signs to tell you how to get there.

But given all the promising noises Labour has been making about bikes - such as
lovely Lord Adonis, the transport minister,  he wanted a bike revolution in the
UK - it's a bit disappointing that they are making just one concrete pledge.
Especially as we all know that manifesto pledges are generally as concrete as
quick sand.

Here is a round up of what all the main parties are saying about cycling so far.
Let us know below what you think.

Ukip

Let's start with the reliably daft Ukip. To give them their dues, at least they
have bothered to address the issue in some detail. And not all of their ideas
are completely looney - there's a wooly bit which mentions putting "greater
emphasis on tackling bicycle theft" for example. Mostly, though, Ukip is
concerned not with what it can do for cyclists, but what it can do about them.
Such as:

Making cyclists get off and walk at junctions and roundabouts...

Local authorities should be given additional powers to enforce a 'cyclists
dismount' or 'no cycling' regulation where there are safety concerns - such as
on busy roundabouts, junctions or bus lanes, or where the road would be too
narrowed by cycle lanes and cause unacceptable delays to traffic.

Forcing us to get insurance in case we damage a car...

Ukip would consult on the desirability of minimum third party liability
insurance cover for cyclists - a simple annual flat rate registration
'Cycledisc', stuck to the bicycle frame, to cover damage to cars and others,
which are currently unprotected.

Banning bikes from roads and forcing cyclists to use bike lanes...

Ukip believes off road dedicated lanes are preferable to a confusing maze of
cycle lanes on unsuitable or dangerous roads, which is problematic for cyclists
as well as other road users.

And silliest of all, making us pay to park...

We support provision of cycle parking at reasonable charges.

Read Ukip's transport policy in all its deranged glory .

The Conservatives

David Cameron might like riding his bike (or at least being photographed on it),
but he makes no promises to encourage others to do so. All his manifesto says
about cycling is that the Tories will give "the concerns of cyclists much
greater priority." Very nice, Dave - but how?

Read the full Tory manifesto .

The Lib Dems

Not much at all from the yellow party. All I could find was a vague pledge to
"include the promotion of safer cycling and pedestrian routes in all local
transport plans". Yawn.

Read their full manifesto

The Greens

Unsurprisingly, the Greenies are all in favour of bikes. They hadn't launched
their manifesto by the time I wrote this, but looking through their policies, I
particularly liked their idea to force public transport providers "to fully
consult with and provide for cyclists, both on their vehicles (train, ferry,
bus, light rail/tram, etc.) and at all the boarding and termination points where
they run along fixed routes." Plus they acknowledge that a bicycle is a
legitimate vehicle, arguing that cycling should, where possible, be done on
ordinary roads, and that local authorities have a responsibility to make these
roads far safer to ride on.

Read the Green transport policies in full .

Labour

And as mentioned above, Labour threw just one piddling crumb to cyclists:

We will encourage more people to switch to rail with an enforceable right to the
cheapest fare, while trebling the number of secure cycle storage spaces at rail
stations.

Their full manifesto, should you wish to read it, is .

Clearly, cycling is not a number one priority for the parties or most voters -
and I personally agree with bicycling journalist Carlton Reid, who argues  that
despite his wish to see cycling provision improve, he is not going to vote for a
party just because they say nice things about bikes. But it is disheartening
that none of the three main parties has bothered to give real thought to the
positive role more cycling could make to the UK's future.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              184 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday

Vote for the Green party so climate goals can be met with a fairer society

BYLINE: Chris Goodallguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 822 words

ABSTRACT

Chris Goodall: Those who want action on climate change must be committed to
building the sense of fairness to make those reductions possible

FULL TEXT

In his  about why he will not be voting for the , the climate scientist Prof
Myles Allen wants the Greens to revert to being a party solely concerned with
the environment. He says that by offering a full slate of policies we are
weakening our appeal to people who those want a focus on climate change and
other urgent ecological issues.

He says that by linking our policies on the environment to wider ambitions for
improving Britain, we are diluting our appeal to our natural supporters. In fact
he thinks our environmental concerns are little more than a cloak to disguise
our ambitions for more equitable Britain. We aren't really interested in
arresting climate change, he seems to say. Our secret desire is to build a
fairer society.

At the European elections in June of last year, Oxford voters like Myles cast
more . In any reasonably fair political system one of Oxford's two MPs would be
wearing a Green rosette on 7 May. Why do so many of his neighbours support the
party when Myles himself thinks that our approach is muddy and confused because
it aims both at climate change objectives and at broader social goals?

In my experience of talking to local voters, most of them see the strongest of
connections between environmental and other political issues. Local Green
councillors have shown that action on climate change is wholly compatible with
improving the services offered by councils and public services. For example,
improving public transport is good for the environment and good for communities.
Getting recycling rates up reduces methane emissions as well as reducing the
need for new landfill sites. Investing in municipally owned windfarms is
profitable and will reduce council tax for Oxford voters. Improving access to
locally grown food reduces energy consumption and helps bind communities
together.

Allen's research group continues to warn us that fossil fuel consumption must
eventually fall if we are to avert accelerating climate change. Partly as a
result of his work, most people know that economic growth based on the
increasing use of fossil fuels is extremely unlikely to be possible or
desirable. So they back the Green New Deal, an attempt to rebuild Britain's
manufacturing, agricultural, forestry and building industries around low-carbon
alternatives to our wasteful use of coal, gas and oil. Our focus on clean
technology is an attempt to use British engineering skills to decrease pollution
levels and diminish the harm we impose on the environment. This is neither
pointless from a climate change standpoint nor from the need to improve
employment prospects for young Britons.

Right at the heart of the Green campaign is the slogan that Allen seems most to
dislike: "Fair is worth fighting for". Briefly, let me say why I think fairness
is important. The UK faces some major challenges, of which reducing emissions is
one of the most urgent and important. So far, Britain has transparently failed
to achieve progress on this and many other issues. The Green hypothesis is that
this failure partly derives from our unequal and fractured society. How can any
political party build consensus on the need for large-scale sacrifices or for
difficult choices if some groups in society are so well-off as to be insulated
from the cost? Societies that put fairness at the heart of their policy-making,
such as the Nordic countries or even less well-off states like Costa Rica, find
it easier to build cohesion and a shared commitment to undertaking painful
changes. Those who want action on climate change should vote Green both because
of our commitment to taking action on emissions and because we are more likely
to build the sense of fairness and shared purpose that will make it possible to
achieve those reductions.

Much to my personal regret, Myles will not be marking his cross against the
Greens in three weeks' time. So who will get his vote in Oxford West and
Abingdon? Ukip, the people who think that climate change is fabrication? , and
has expanded road building? And, having been in power for 13 years, has pretty
much the worst record on renewable energy of all European countries? The , whose
new prospective MPs are said to be agnostic on climate change and who have
opposed almost every onshore windfarm? Or finally, the , who have just proposed
reducing fuel duties for transport and whose councillors blocked the nearest
windfarm to Oxford for 10 years while backing new local road schemes? Allen
wrote last year that "emission reductions are urgently needed to avoid dangerous
climate change". Who else does he trust more than the Greens to achieve these
reductions?

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              185 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday

Green party's radical policies would be a boon to the new parliament

BYLINE: John Vidalguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 529 words

ABSTRACT

John Vidal: Caroline Lucas may yet become the country's first Green MP, and
voters of all political colours should welcome that prospect

FULL TEXT

Here's the scenario: it's May 9, with a hung parliament and Labour has the Lib
Dems aboard but it still needs an extra one or two seats to form a government.
They can't possibly come from UKIP and most of the independents are
unacceptable, but what about , the first elected Green MP in the Commons? She's
a crowd-puller, and Labour is kind of green, isn't it? A red-green alliance
sounds good.

But then the party wonks sit down and actually read the . What's this?, you hear
them splutter. No nuclear power? Scrap Trident? No more airport expansions, no
more coal power stations. A speed limit of 55mph on the motorway, twice as much
recycling, national and personal carbon budgets, organic agriculture, one
million solar roofs, nationalise the railways? Petrol double the price? Eighty
seven per cent of Britain "better off". No more free market economics? Emissions
to be cut 90% in 20 years?

You can hear the screams already.

But only 10 years ago, if the Labour party had promised the country 15% of all
power from renewables by 2015, and an 80% cut in emissions by 2050, New Labour
would have blanched. Yet it . The point is that global events can change ideas
quickly and the Green party has always been a crucible of political free
thinking, where radical social, economic and environmental choices can be
debated and tested. Mostly the party has watched them get picked up by
mainstream parties.

This election, the Greens have one of the most radical internationalist agendas
ever offered to a British public. Rather than accept a false choice between the
economy or the environment, the party recognises the world is in a dangerous
place because of climate change, war and the , and in response strives for a
more equal, collective society.

It proposes one or two big ideas that are genuinely revolutionary and which, if
ever taken up, would lead to the the biggest redistribution of wealth and
reappraisal of the environment in 50 years.

Take the , which  with when he was environment secretary. He was politically
excited, seeing clearly that climate change change required politicians to
rethink how they approached questions of production and distribution. But he
also saw that if you effectively made carbon a parallel world currency, and you
set annual decreasing caps on emissions, the rich - who consume the most - would
have to buy their carbon quotas from the poor who consume less and therefore
emit less. The net result would not just be far fewer emissions, but a fairer
society.

No one expects the Greens to get more than 4%-7% of the vote this time, but no
one underestimates their role as a party of ideas with a growing influence at
the grassroots. , and a . The policy wonks in other parties should start taking
them seriously.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              186 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Nevin's notes;
An alternative take on the election

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 572 words


* Around The Hustings. Here are some recent gleanings and vital updates, in no
particular order.

1. Nancy Dell'Olio is threatening to join the campaign.

2. Katie Price (right), far from replying to my request for the party of her
choice, has left for Egypt.

3. Amir Amrabadi, of Mr Crispins fish and chip shop, Bristol, who is sounding
out his customers, says it is still too close to call.

4. After a close study, the Savile Row Company recommends that Vince Cable needs
French-taped seams to combat his puckered arm holes.

5. David Laws, the Lib Dem MP who has been playing David Cameron in Nick Clegg's
rehearsals for tonight's televised debate, says has not been mimicking Mr
Cameron's voice or wearing any "costumes". Gracious me, what are they all up to?

* Thought For Today With Lord Mandelson, offering some sound presentational
advice: "Be yourself, be clear, be straight with people and don't compete with
David Cameron on personal insults."

* Thought For Today with Lord Mandelson, some minutes later: David Cameron is
"looking down his rather long toffee nose" at the efforts Labour has made on
regional business and industrial investment.

* Thought For Today With Lord Pearson, leader of UKIP: "The Queen's the best
thing this country's got by miles, together with the armed forces and the taxi
drivers."

* On The Doorstep. Teacups are rattling a bit down in South Dorset over the
pedigree of the Conservative candidate, Richard Drax. There are accusations he's
adjusted his name in pursuit of D Cameron's Trojan Toff policy. Drax says it's a
matter of convenience, and you can see his point, as his full handle is, in
fact, Richard Plunkett-Ernle-Erle-Drax. He is also a former journalist, if a
slightly unusual one: a colleague calling to check one of his stories was told
he was "out shooting pheasants". A forebear was Admiral Sir Reginald Aylmer
Ranfurly Plunkett-Ernle-Erle-Drax, whose mission to Russia with the French in
1939 failed to avert the German-Soviet pact. The Admiral was also an authority
on swimming pool solar heating. The Ernle, by the way, is pronounced "Earnly".
In any case, the full Drax is as nothing to the longest multi-barrel on record,
that of Major Leone Sextus Denys Oswolf Fraudatifilius Tollemache-Tollemache-de
Orellana-Plantagenet-Tollemache-Tollemache, prudently referred to by the men
under his command in Flanders as "Sir". It has been reported that Drax is an Old
Etonian, which is competely untrue. He went to Harrow.

* Jobs! More of my exclusive service for those who might be a teensy bit
apprehensive about 7 May. How about this: "My client based in Derbyshire has an
urgent requirement for an employee expenses processor. Duties will be to liaise
with employees and line managers, processing expense claims and dealing with
queries. The ideal candidate will have knowledge of expenses." Actually, I think
that's already gone. You do have to be quick these days.

* Do you want to preserve Boris Johnson? If so, I should be especially wary of
voting Ukip. In addition to restoring the Army and the Royal Navy to levels not
seen since Jutland, they are also very keen to commission no fewer than four new
nuclear submarines, capable of delivering an explosive yield in total of
somewhere around 15 megatonnes. And they have also promised a policy of zero
tolerance towards cyclists going through red lights (Boris, Pimlico, last Friday
lunchtime, with previous). Warming up nicely, then.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              187 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 15, 2010 Thursday 1:50 PM GMT

What kind of party would go into this election promising a massive hike in
spending despite the deficit?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 299 words


I have a certain tendresse for the Green Party. Its leader, my fellow South East
Euro-MP, Caroline Lucas, is honest and decent. Its London Assemblywoman, Jenny
Jones, is a brick. And I defy anyone to watch Sian Berry on television without
liking her. My affection for the party is, of course, wholly unreciprocated, but
I'm used to that.

Greens are in politics because they want to fix what they see as remediable
problems. (The same is true, incidentally,of the United Kingdom Independence
Party, although broadcasters will never acknowledge this: covering the UKIP
manifesto launch on Tuesday, the BBC correspondent spoke of the party's "hatred"
of Brussels, and repeatedly referred to it as "anti-Europe" rather than
"anti-EU". Indeed the markedly different ways in which our state broadcaster
covers the minority parties is perhaps the most empirical measure of its
partisanship: see here. But I digress.)

We're all agreed, then: Greens are idealistic. Then again, there's idealism, and
there's outright battiness. Britain is facing an unprecedented financial crisis.
This is the level of our accumulated debt. Our deficit is the same as Greece's.
Our Treasury is empty, our credit exhausted. And what do the Greens propose? Yet
more spending! More money for public services, a bigger overseas aid budget, a
higher minimum wage, gazillions on new eco-technologies and, while we're about
it, an assault on the financial services sector which is currently generating
around 12 per cent of our total tax revenue.

Hang on, though. Now that I come to think of it, every one of these commitments
is also Labour policy. As I say, there's idealism and there's outright
battiness.

Watch an interview with Caroline Lucas

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              188 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Euro fest

BYLINE: Edward Fennell

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 65

LENGTH: 124 words


In days of yore the Langham was the shabby annex to Broadcasting House where
several of my rakish BBC friends worked. Now, of course, it is the embodiment of
smartness and today and tomorrow, courtesy of Georgetown Edward Fennell
University Law Centre, it hosts the Corporate Counsel Institute Europe
conference.

The keynote speaker will be Professor Mario Monti, the former European Union
Competition Commissioner, and now an adviser to José Manuel Barroso, President
of the European Commission, on internal market policy.

There will also be the chance for updates on all manner of EU legal issues
thanks to a sparkling programme devised by Pascal Chadenet, a Salans partner and
chairman of the European Board of Georgetown. Just don't invite Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              189 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The great satirists have to be kind to be cruel;
MyWeek

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 744 words


You may not care to know this, and it's totally irrelevant to his talent at what
he does - but I thought that you might be interested: Rory Bremner is a really
nice man.

The satirist and impressionist is doing a sort of travelling election campaign
circus tour - live shows up and down the country. Last Monday night it was in
Milton Keynes.

I doubt that you make a lot of money from these kinds of gigs and it's a sweat
for the entertainer, but I'm an enthusiastic supporter of live performance and
was glad to be asked to join him (with UKIP's Nigel Farage and Shami Chakrabarti
of Liberty) on stage there.

Rory does the first half as a solo act; then, during the second half, kicks
around election topics with his guests. His William Hague is scarily good, his
Nelson Mandela sublime, his Gordon Brown hilarious and his David Cameron -
frankly, and by his own admission - a work in progress: there's a submerged,
almost icy imperiousness about the Tory leader that nobody has quite yet
captured.

I explained to Rory that I had to bolt the moment the show ended at 10pm, for a
10.22 train; and off I sprinted, ahead of the departing audience. But I lost
(and finally found) my suitcase. Result: me in a taxi, stuck behind a huge
gridlock of cars trying to exit. Clock ticking ... 10.10.

Despair grips me. In our headlights I see a distracted-looking middle-aged man
running from car to car, begging drivers to pull off on to the grass, helping
them to reverse, directing traffic and clearing a passage for the taxi. Result?
Arrived at station with 40 seconds to spare. The distracted-looking middle-aged
man was Rory Bremner.

What other star can you imagine doing that for someone? Isn't it odd how great
critics, satirists or parodists - whose trade is to lacerate - are often
privately kindly souls? Ian Hislop, Peter Brookes, Craig Brown, Steve Bell,
Brian Sewell, the late Auberon Waugh ... it's quite a list.

Is personal kindness an unconscious compensation for public cruelty? Or is
public cruelty an unconscious relief from the frustration of being privately
kind? The latter, I suspect.

No half measure

Perhaps I've misread the Tory manifesto because nobody else seems to be making
anything of this, but buried on page 84 is something that appears to promise
English and Welsh MPs a veto over legislation applying only to England and
Wales.

This would give the parliamentary Conservative Party control for ... well, for
ever ... over about half of what a UK government actually does (health,
education, justice, police for example) and would surely be politically
impossible for a future Labour government to remove. Or have I misunderstood?

People power

Speaking of Wales (look, for instance, at both the Tory and the Plaid Cymru
manifestos) have you noticed the strange death of the Welsh people? They are
always "the people of Wales" these days, as though "Welsh" were a pejorative
term. We talk of "the Scots" or "the Scottish people" and have no problem with
"the English" (imagine politicians banging on about "the people of England") so
what's wrong with people being Welsh? Could Wales please reclaim its adjective?
Failing that, could we at least save space with a new proper noun: the
peopleofwales?

Confident Clegg

Watched Nick Clegg launch his manifesto yesterday. There's been a powerful gear
change in the Lib Dem leader's public demeanour. All at once he's looking
accomplished, confident, professional; acquiring an air of command. Even his
hair has gained a proud new buoyancy. Is there an aerosol that does for
political performance what hairspray does for hair? That's what new Clegg seems
to have added to his grooming.

The ultimate honour

Can I claim a record for Dr Peg Cumberland, a wonderful person I met on the
Mozambique shore of Lake Niassa (or, as the Malawians call it, Lake Malawi).
I've just heard from her. Dr Peg, as everyone calls her, travels the only way
you can practically, on foot, up and down the Lagos province of northern
Mozambique, teaching about health and ministering to the sick.

The record I claim is this: is this the last person to discover that she is on
the New Year's Honours List? Peg found out last week. Somebody approached her
ages ago, to sound her out on the possibility of an MBE, but she supposed
nothing would come of it and, checking online in January, and failing to spot
her name, assumed nothing had. "I didn't realise there was something called the
Overseas List," she tells me. She does now. She's thrilled.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              190 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

WHAT GORDON, DAVE AND NICK MUST LEARN FROM THE TV SHOWDOWN THAT CHANGED HISTORY

BYLINE: BY ANDREW MARR

LENGTH: 1300 words


OURS is a diseased democracy. MPs on the take, public disgust with government
failures and a bitterly cynical media have turned the Mother of Parliaments into
a sick old duck.

What we need most is a revival of real politics, and a vigorous interest in the
election before us. And we are being offered, as part of it, the first ever
series of live, televised debates between the main leaders. How very American.

For years, there have been complaints, angry or amused, about British
politicians' starry-eyed obsession with how the u.S. Democrats and Republicans
do things.

It's hard to find a leading politician who hasn't been over to a u.S. party
convention, or who doesn't burble about the internet lessons of the Obama
campaign.

Today's political class are people for whom the iconic moments of American
politics cut almost as deep as anything in our own political history.

But there is one piece of u.S. political folklore that is truly iconic and
which, 50 years on, is still more talked about than any other. It is the first
televised presidential debate, on September 26, 1960, in Chicago, between John
F. Kennedy and Richard Nixon.

It has gone down in history because that's the one where Nixon was famously
unshavenlooking, tired and haggard. Kennedy went from being the outsider to
favourite in less than an hour.

This was when television changed political history, and it's a crucial reference
point for what we are about to experience, as our own party leaders prepare for
their first TV debate tomorrow night.

There are some fascinating parallels. As in Britain today, the Kennedy/Nixon
debates were parcelled out between three rival television outfits -- CBS, NBC
and ABC, rather than ITV, Sky and the BBC. Back then, as now, the television
companies wanted to show how responsible they could be, but were struggling with
how to interest the viewing public.

Then, as now, there were incredibly detailed and difficult negotiations before
the debates could take place. The u.S. television companies had to clear away a
law which would have meant all the minor parties taking part.

If the Greens, the nationalists and uKIP feel miffed at being left out of our
own TV debates, they can reflect that the Farmer Labor Party of Iowa and the
Greenback Party were brushed aside just as briskly in 1960. The fine detail of
timings, lighting and setting that were haggled over by party spin doctors in
London throughout last winter echo equally finicky talks between the Kennedy and
Nixon camps and the u.S. broadcasters.

Even the backdrop, painted grey, was repeatedly repainted just before the
Kennedy/Nixon broadcast to try to catch the agreed tone.

Some differences, though, are equally striking. We have three leaders debating,
not two. Paddy Ashdown has joked (I think) that he would have literally killed
to enjoy the prominence Nick Clegg will get as LibDem leader, alongside Cameron
and Brown as an equal.

In our debates there will be an audience, albeit one hand-picked and ordered to
behave as timidly as novice nuns.

Yet the greatest similarity is that this election is also very close; and these
debates will matter just as much here as the Kennedy/Nixon clash did in Sixties
America.

Bo th the Labour and Conservative machines have taken a huge risk in agreeing to
them. Already, conventional wisdom says they will be boring, a letdown and so
forth.

Well, perhaps. But consider this. The polls remain tight. People I talk to in
all the three parties believe many millions of voters have not yet finally
decided whether to vote, and if so, for whom. They will choose late. How will
they choose?

Television is a wonderful revealer of character. I believe millions of us will
use these debates as our final 'make your mind up time'. And that's what the
parties think, too.

As front-runner, David Cameron has taken the biggest risk. Cameron is, we know,
a very accomplished informal speaker, strolling about in his shirtsleeves as he
addresses a live audience. He did it famously well at the 2005 Tory conference,
where he won the leadership, and it's a trick he's repeated often since then.

But he has scored less reliably well across the Commons Despatch Box. He has had
some excellent one-liners but Brown has, in the past, played on his experience
and used crushing disdain against the younger man.

Brown first learned his style of speaking in the Old Labour days when loud,
long, repetitious speeches in conference halls were the order of the day. He has
been slow to adapt to television, with his famous facial tics and his heavy,
formal style of speaking.

He can be self-mocking and witty, but has so far kept this for private
occasions. He is going to have to find something inside himself that we have not
yet seen if he is to discomfort Cameron. A 'big clunking fist' will not be
enough.

No one has so far discussed Nick Clegg very much. This is pe rhaps be caus e in
the Commons, his third-party status makes it incredibly hard to overcome the
hubbub and derision around him. His style has been calm and friendly. But he
also needs to make a mark, to get people talking about him as soon as the lights
go down on the first debate.

For all three contenders, humour is the deadliest weapon and the greatest
danger. A sly joke by Cameron that Brown cannot answer; or a piece of vicious
mockery by Brown that makes Cameron go pink and angry-looking; or a genuinely
funny aside by Clegg . . . these are the moments that, this time, may turn the
whole election.

All three will have professional comedians feeding them lines; but, if they're
sensible, they will also be rehearsing their reactions when faced with the
meanest things that can be said about them.

The u.S. experience is that it can be the leaders' reactions that voters notice
most. Nixon was filmed wiping away sweat and looking to one side of the set as
Kennedy made his points; he seemed rattled, rather than merely hot.

Team Cameron hopes that Brown, this campaign's incumbent, will be Nixon-like in
his public image -- grouchy, unappealing, partisan and ill at ease. They will be
looking for his unfortunately timed, fixed smile. They will pray for a bead or
two of sweat.

Brown's team, meanwhile, believe that if, during the first debate, he can spring
a surprise -- a few good jokes, a surprisingly relaxed performance -- then he
can close the gap. They are throwing almost everything they have at the first
week of the campaign on the notunreasonable grounds that 'if we lose that, we
might as well give up and go home'.

And for the Liberal Democrats, Clegg will be a hero to his party if he surprises
the country, and an awful let-down if not. He has least to lose, so we should
expect him to take the biggest risks.

Make no mistake, these will be gladiatorial contests that may very well decide
the outcome of the whole election.

In many ways, I regret that. I'm queasy about the all-or-nothing way we focus on
the leaders, almost as if we were a presidential rather than a parliamentary
democracy. I find some of the other politicians -- Ken Clarke, George Osborne,
Vince Cable, Peter Mandelson, various Milibands -- just as interesting as the
leaders.

But after years of copying the worst aspects of American politics -- from the
focus groups and the jargon to vicious advertising campaigns -- we have at last
imported something worthwhile. It is more like the old days of direct, open,
street- style debate than the airless world of wonks and Twittering.

Oh, I'm going to love it: these debates are a risk, a gamble and an added
uncertainty, flung into the middle of a surprisingly open election.

They ought to make us all more interested. And if we are more interested, we are
likelier to vote. And that at least, is a thoroughly good thing.

Gentleman, adjust your clothing please. The studio is ready. We are on air in
five, four, three . . .

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              191 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

HE WENT AS PINK AS MANDY'S NIGHTIE

LENGTH: 685 words


QUENTIN LETTS

TO that giant, upturned coffee table, Battersea Power Station in London, to
watch the Tories' manifesto launch. As we rolled through the gates we were
confronted by a sign: 'Cringle Dock Refuse and Recycling Centre.' So: They were
launching the brave new era in a rubbish tip.

Actually, the thing was pretty zippy, though hot. By the end, David Cameron was
so pink he could have been Peter Mandelson's silk nightie.

Not that it was a one-man effort, this manifesto launch. Oh no, sir! To prove
the point, we had to sit through interminable solos by the likes of Michael
Gove, Caroline Spelman (she's the one who speaks like a primary school teacher),
Theresa May and Lady Warsi.

Lady W was so short she was almost invisible behind the lectern. There was just
the top of her head and this loud, chatty Yorkshire voice.

A certain, remorseless heartiness was evident from the moment scores of
youngsters arrived in pale blue T-shirts. Among these twentysomethings was the
welfare reform boffin Lord Freud, who is a great deal older and looked like a
trendy vicar.

Pop music thumped out of loudspeakers and we were handed the hard-bound
manifesto, all 118 pages of it. The production quality (glossy pages, sober
type) made me think of the sort of promotional volume sometimes produced by
American Scientologists.

There was a lot of public-school hair on display ñ young men who needed a trip
to the barber ñ and toothpastey optimism. Pretty youths mingled alongside Shadow
Cabinet members. Sir George Young, Bart., looked a bit baffled, his few strands
of hair untidy like a pineapple's top-knot.

Andrew Lansley found himself next to a heart-wrenchingly photogenic Polynesian
girl. In a different age she would have worn little more than a garland round
her neck and would have been holding out a large rum cocktail with a purring
'aloha'. Mr Lansley was rapt, quite rapt. No doubt his mind was concentrated
purely on policy matters.

One Shadow Cabinet member not invited to help with the warm-up proceedings was
the Tories' Transport spokesman, Theresa Villiers. She was seated in the bank of
supporters at the back of the venue.

By chance, she was visible on TV screens much of the time. If you were watching
it, Miss Villiers was the one with the sloping face and the electric blue
outfit, flashing two distinctly unsettling eyes. Herman Munster's kid sister.

While Mrs May was up on the podium, my dears, the look of envy beaming forth
from those Villiers eyeballs was hot enough to barbecue a Wall's sausage.

Certain words kept being stressed: JOIN, TOGETHER, COME. Again, I found myself
writing 'church' in my notebook. The atmosphere of volunteering fervour, of
clappy evangelism, hymnodic sodality, the determination to think the best of
everyone (there was no Gordon Brown bashing yesterday) was inescapable. And just
a little exhausting.

Every shadow minister who spoke used a running spiel about how the voters were
invited, nay, enjoined, to drop whatever they were doing and apply a shoulder to
the wheel of civic governance.

It was there on the front of the manifesto book: 'Invitation to Join the
Government of Britain.' Absurd, really. But not unclever. And certainly fresh
after the misery of Monday's Labour manifesto launch.

It also contrasted to the atmosphere at UKIP's manifesto launch just an hour
earlier in a tiny room in Westminster. 'Don't write us off completely,' said the
party's best-known figure, Nigel Farage. I rather like that morose pessimism.

Back at the Tory beano, David Cameron cried: 'Let's make this the biggest call
to arms the country has seen in a generation.' If we do have Cameron's Britain
it may well be a bit like being on a Scouting expedition or, dread thought, a
company team-building away-day.

Mr Cameron, so energised that he injected a wind-surfer's kink into his body,
disowned not only the big state but also individualism. I can see he is aiming
for. He doesn't want his Tories to be thought selfish.

But I wonder if he has underestimated the bloody-mindedness of the English. We
remain, deep down, a nation horrified by the prospect of audience participation.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              192 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

A PLAGUE ON ALL THEIR HOUSES, SAYS UKIP

LENGTH: 185 words


UKIP unveiled the campaign slogan 'Sod The Lot' yesterday as it urged voters to
ditch the three main parties.

The slogan appears on the party's new poster alongside the faces of Gordon
Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

But at the launch of its election campaign yesterday, the staunchly anti-EU
party said it would stand aside to let a string of Eurosceptic Tory and Labour
candidates have a clear-run in marginal seats.

So far the UK Independence Party has identified six Tories, one Labour MP and at
least one independent against whom it will not field candidates against because
they are ' committed' opponents of the EU.

UKIP leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch said the party could stand aside in up to 15
constituencies.

UKIP will actively campaign to elect these candidates, but Lord Pearson was at
pains to say they had not asked for his help.

The party is hoping to make a breakthrough with the election of its first MP to
Westminster, and is fielding 550 candidates.

In particular, it is targeting the Buckingham constituency of Commons Speaker
John Bercow, where the party's ex-leader, Nigel Farage, is standing.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              193 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

MOVE OVER SARAH AND SAMCAM ... STEP UP LADY CAROLINE OF UKIP

LENGTH: 759 words


JAN MOIR - WAR OF THE WIVES

STATELY Sarah, radiant Sam Cam, Magnificent Miriam; is there room for one more
leader's wife to frolic and bloom alongside these hardy perennials in the
election spring garden? Voters, I'm afraid there is. Clacking along in her
favourite five-year-old Carvelas comes Lady Caroline Pearson of Rannoch, who was
unveiled as UKIP's secret weapon at the party's manifesto launch yesterday.

'Obviously I am going to have to start canvassing,' said Lady P, after her
surprise candidacy was announced, before adding: 'Shops. I'm going to start by
focusing on

Before we got to Lady P and her plans, party leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch
introduced a line up of UKIP candidates that included boxing promoter Frank
Maloney standing in Barking, the former Tory MP Christopher Gill standing in
Ludlow; a Serbian woman (has she read their policy on immigration?) standing in
North Kensington and a bloke they pulled in off the street and standing in the
corner in disbelief.

Then the big revelation. Ta da! A candidate who was a huge surprise to everyone,
including the candidate herself.

'Ladies and gentlemen, please put your hands together for ñ my wife!'

'Move over Sam Cam, move over Sarah,' cried Lord Pearson. 'Standing in
Kensington is Caroline, Lady Pearson of Rannoch!'

Dressed in an Armani jacket ('it was on sale'), a dress made by a seamstress and
with her elegant legs crossed at the ankle, Caroline Pearson smiled with the
modest ease of one whose foray into national politics had been planned, you
would have thought, for oh, yonks.

'I decided to stand last Thursday,' she said later. 'There was no candidate for
Kensington and I decided to fight for freedom and democracy, like my father
did.' (Daddy, Major Hugh St Vincent Rose of the Scots Guards, was a war hero who
resigned from the Tory party in disgust over the Maastricht Treaty. Hubby was
cut from much the same cloth).

Yet despite her high-up connections, news of Caroline's elevation to the party
still came as a surprise to UKIP.

Yesterday, browsers on their website were still informed that no candidate for
Kensington had been chosen. A search for Caroline Pearson's name came up blank ñ
and it certainly came as a big surprise to me.

Fewer than five months ago, Lady Pearson sat me down in her kitchen and
explained why she would never, ever get involved in politics ñ or become a
political wife. She even refused to have her photograph-taken with her husband.
'It's just not me. I support Malcolm, of course I do, but I'm only really
interested in my dog charities,' she said.

Caroline is his third wife and the couple divide their time between London and
his deer stalking estate in Scotland.

She may have been new to the game, but even then, she had that politician's wife
look down pat ñ a kind of terrified sheepdog watchfulness.

HOWEVER, despite this, I thought Caroline extremely nice. I adored the way she
pre-snapped Malcolm's Kit Kats into individual fingers for easier eating, but
this hardly qualifies her to run for parliament, does it? Even if she is good at
shopping.

'No, I mean that shops in Kensington are being pushed out by supermarket
franchises and I would give them concessions,' she says.

What about the congestion charge, a hot topic for all retailers in the area? 'I
haven't got a policy on that.' At least Caroline Pearson has a connection to the
West London borough.

However, even if she did live in Kensington for years and even went to school
there, has she any idea of what she is letting herself in for? 'Of course I'm
nervous,' she said. 'I want to be a player not a spectator. I don't want to
stand there discussing how domesticated my husband is.'

Is she saying how wet the other political spouses are?

'I would never say such a thing,' she said. Yet despite those who dismiss the
spouses as frivolous, her sudden elevation emphasises our fascination with wife
power in this election.

Meanwhile, Sam Cam wore a pretty frock and sat in the front row with that now
familiar Pieta expression on her face as she watched her husband deliver his
manifesto. On her feet, Zara peep-toe wedges, her toes nicely polished a gothic
shade of black.

In contrast, Sarah Brown went to a power conversion factory.

She had to wear a hard hat, something she hates ñ and a pair of special,
cover-up, safety shoes. After Sunday's exposure of her battered toes at a
mosque, she was grateful for this small mercy.

'Gordon's shoes had extra long laces, mine were more suitable for playing
football,' she writes on her blog.

She shoots, she scores ñ Sarah plays a blinder, again!

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              194 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Support the Euro-sceptics in other parties, Ukip tells voters;
MANIFESTO

BYLINE: Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 502 words


THE UK Independence Party unveiled its election manifesto yesterday and a "Sod
the lot" advertising campaign, telling voters it was time to ditch the three
main parties.

But, in a move to help get more Euro-sceptic MPs elected, Ukip will tell its
supporters to vote for candidates from the major parties in 15 seats.

Lord Pearson, the Ukip leader, disclosed the names of seven candidates from
Labour or the Conservatives whom the party was urging voters to back.

He said there were a further eight candidates Ukip was considering supporting in
the campaign. Some other Tory candidates have contacted the party to ask for an
endorsement.

The Conservatives against whom Ukip will not campaign include Philip Davies
(Shipley), Douglas Carswell (Clacton), Janice Small (Batley and Spen), Alex
Story (Wakefield) and Philip Hollobone (Kettering).

Labour's David Drew in Stroud and the independent candidate Bob Spink in Castle
Point would also not be opposed, Lord Pearson said.

An election leaflet from Steve Parker, the Ukip candidate in Stroud, said:
"Although I want your vote very much in this marginal constituency, I ask you to
vote for David Drew if possible.

"He is a committed Eurosceptic, who will continue to fight for our freedom in
Parliament and I don't want to stop him getting there. He has not asked for this
help but we believe it would be for the good of our country."

Lord Pearson denied his tactical voting plan would confuse the electorate. "I
think voters will understand it," he said. "These are all seats where if we
stand we are likely to make a difference."

Ukip was examining as many as eight other seats where it might endorse a
candidate from one of the main parties, including the Conservative David
Heathcoat-Amory in Wells.

Lord Pearson said Ukip planned to spend £500,000 on the advertising campaign,
"all from ex-Conservative donors".

The party's manifesto called for withdrawal from the European Union, a ban on
wearing a burka or niqab in public buildings and "certain private buildings",
scrapping National Insurance contributions and a new 31 per cent flat tax. Other
plans included safeguarding British weights and measures and "time limited" work
permits for foreigners.

At the press conference to unveil the manifesto, Lord Pearson defended allowing
Paul Wiffen, a Ukip candidate, to fight for a seat in Ilford South, despite him
being earlier suspended for sending a racist email to a social care website.

The party leader said while the language Mr Wiffen used was "clearly
unacceptable, the subject he raised should be the subject of national debate".

Don't vote for us...

The seven candidates in marginal constituencies whom Ukip said it would not
actively try to defeat at the election: David Drew (Labour, Stroud) 350 majority
in 2005 Philip Davies (Tory, Shipley) 422 Douglas Carswell (Tory, Clacton) 920
(Harwich) Philip Hollobone (Tory, Kettering) 3,301 Bob Spink (Independent,
Castle Point) 8,201 Janice Small (Tory, Batley and Spen) N/A Mark Reckless
(Tory, Rochester and Strood) N/A

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The new poster features the main party leaders Gordon Brown, David
Cameron and Nick Clegg
PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              195 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Support the Euro-sceptics in other parties, Ukip tells voters;
MANIFESTO

BYLINE: Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 497 words


THE UK Independence Party unveiled its election manifesto yesterday and a "Sod
the lot" advertising campaign, telling voters it was time to ditch the three
main parties.

Despite fielding candidates in almost every constituency, in some areas Ukip
urged voters to support its rivals instead to help elect Eurosceptic MPs.

In these seats, the party was either not fielding a candidate or was asking its
own candidate to support the Eurosceptic challenger from another party.

Ukip had adopted the strategy after realising that standing a candidate could
prevent "someone getting into the House of Commons who really is a
Euro-sceptic". Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the party leader, disclosed the names of
candidates in seven seats whom the party was urging voters to back. There were
as many as eight more unnamed candidates Ukip was considering supporting in the
campaign.

Other Tory candidates who heard of the strategy had started to contact the party
to ask for an endorsement. The candidates against whom Ukip will not campaign
included Labour's David Drew (Stroud), who has a majority of 350, and the
Conservative Philip Davies (Shipley), who has a majority of 422.

An election leaflet from Steve Parker, the Ukip candidate in Stroud, said:
"Although I want your vote very much in this marginal constituency, I ask you to
vote for David Drew if possible.

"He is a committed Eurosceptic, who will continue to fight for our freedom in
Parliament and I don't want to stop him getting there.

"He has not asked for this help but we believe it would be for the good of our
country."

Lord Pearson denied his tactical voting plan would confuse the electorate. "I
think voters will understand it," he said. "These are all seats where if we
stand we are likely to make a difference."

The party leader said Ukip planned to spend £500,000 on the advertising
campaign, "all from ex-Conservative donors". The party's manifesto called for
withdrawal from the European Union, a ban on wearing a burka or niqab in public
buildings, scrapping National Insurance and a new 31 per cent flat tax.

Other plans included safeguarding British weights and measures and "time
limited" work permits for foreigners.

At the press conference to unveil the manifesto, Lord Pearson defended allowing
Paul Wiffen, a Ukip candidate, to fight for a seat in Ilford South, despite him
being earlier suspended for sending a racist email to a social care website.

The party leader said while the language Mr Wiffen used was "clearly
unacceptable, the subject he raised should be the subject of national debate".

Don't vote for us...

The seven candidates in marginal constituencies whom Ukip said it would not
actively try to defeat at the election: David Drew (Labour, Stroud) 350 majority
in 2005 Philip Davies (Tory, Shipley) 422 Douglas Carswell (Tory, Clacton) 920
(Harwich) Philip Hollobone (Tory, Kettering) 3,301 Bob Spink (Independent,
Castle Point) 8,201 Janice Small (Tory, Batley and Spen) N/A Alex Story (Tory,
Wakefield) N/A

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The new poster features the main party leaders Gordon Brown, David
Cameron and Nick Clegg
PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              196 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UKIP: 'Sod the lot' and save us from a disaster

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 579 words


VICTORY for any of the "old failed" main parties would be a disaster for
Britain, the anti-European UK Independence Party said yesterday.

Unveiling a campaign poster featuring the faces of Gordon Brown, David Cameron
and Nick Clegg under the slogan "Sod The Lot", it urged voters to break the
mould of British politics.

Party leader Lord Pearson said he hoped for a hung Parliament because it
probably would not last very long.

His party could then be in a better position to insist that none of the "old
failed parties'' could form a government unless they promised a referendum on EU
membership. He said a victory for David Cameron would only allow another five
years of European integration, while if a Labour government was returned voters
would "get what they deserve".

Hopefuls

However, Lord Pearson also announced his party would not fight eurosceptic
candidates from the main parties if they were standing in marginal seats where
UKIP votes might deny them victory.

UKIP has identified six Tories, one Labour MP and one independent former Tory
for whom it will encourage support to ensure there are eurosceptic voices in
Parliament.

Stressing that none of the candidates had asked for his help, Lord Pearson named
them as Conservatives Philip Davies in Shipley, Douglas Carswell in Clacton and
Philip Hollobone in Kettering, all seeking re-election, as well as Tory hopefuls
Janice Small in Batley and Spen, Alex Story in Wakefield and Mark Reckless in
Rochester and Stroud.

Two other sitting MPs - David Drew, for Labour in Stroud, and independent Bob
Spink in Castle Point - can also expect help from UKIP. Lord Pearson said he
hoped to convince his party activists in as many as eight other marginal seats
with eurosceptic main party candidates to follow suit.

After coming second and emerging with 13 European MPs from the last
Euro-elections, UKIP hopes to gain its first Westminster seats on May 6. The
candidate seen as having the best chance is MEP and former party leader Nigel
Farage, who aims to replace Commons Speaker John Bercow in Buckingham.

Mr Farage urged voters not to write off UKIP, adding that the main parties
offered a change of management, not government.

UKIP's manifesto claims Britain will regain vital freedoms to govern its own
affairs by leaving the EU as well as saving up to £120billion a year, with the
absence of any new free trade agreements with European and Com-monwealth
partners meaning no jobs would be lost.

Policies include ending uncontrolled mass immigration, with an immediate
five-year freeze on immigration for permanent settlement and a points system to
limit future arrivals to fewer than 50,000 a year.

Merging

Once Britain left the EU all immigrants, including those from Europe, would have
time-limited work permits or visas. Border Agency staff would be tripled to
30,000.

Muslim face-coverings such as the burkha would be banned in public and private
companies would be allowed to ban them on their premises as part of efforts to
"restore Britishness".

UKIP would also scrap National Insurance contributions, merging them with income
tax to create a 31 per cent flat tax on incomes over £11,500 a year.

It would replace VAT with a local sales tax, merge state pensions and benefits
into a minimum £130-a-week "citizen's pension".

It would double the number of prison places and boost military spending by 40
per cent, as well as calling for a Royal Commission on global warming, saying it
is sceptical about claims of man-made change.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage launches his party's campaign yesterday, with poster
Picture: BEN STANSALL/AFP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              197 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP: 'Sod the lot' and save us from a disaster

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 578  words


VICTORY for any of the "old failed" main parties would be a disaster for
Britain, the anti-European UK Independence Party said yesterday.

Unveiling a campaign poster featuring the faces of Gordon Brown, David Cameron
and Nick Clegg under the slogan "Sod The Lot", it urged voters to break the
mould of British politics.

Party leader Lord Pearson said he hoped for a hung Parliament because it
probably would not last very long.

His party could then be in a better position to insist that none of the "old
failed parties'' could form a government unless they promised a referendum on EU
membership.

He said a victory for David Cameron would only allow another five years of
European integration, while if a Labour government was returned voters would
"get what they deserve".

However, Lord Pearson also announced his party would not fight eurosceptic
candidates from the main parties if they were standing in marginal seats where
UKIP votes might deny them victory.

UKIP has identified six Tories, one Labour MP and one independent former Tory
for whom it will encourage support to ensure there are eurosceptic voices in
Parliament.

Stressing that none of the candidates had asked for his help, Lord Pearson named
them as Conservatives Philip Davies in Shipley, Douglas Carswell in Clacton and
Philip Hollobone in Kettering, all seeking re-election, as well as Tory hopefuls
Janice Small in Batley and Spen, Alex Story in Wakefield and Mark Reckless in
Rochester and Stroud.

Two other sitting MPs - David Drew, for Labour in Stroud, and independent Bob
Spink in Castle Point - can also expect help from UKIP. Lord Pearson said he
hoped to convince his party activists in as many as eight other marginal seats
with eurosceptic main party candidates to follow suit.

After coming second and emerging with 13 European MPs from the last
Euro-elections, UKIP hopes to gain its first Westminster seats on May 6.

The candidate seen as having the best chance is MEP and former party leader
Nigel Farage, who aims to replace Commons Speaker John Bercow in Buckingham.

Mr Farage urged voters not to write off UKIP, adding that the main parties
offered a change of management, not government.

UKIP's manifesto claims Britain will regain vital freedoms to govern its own
affairs by leaving the EU as well as saving up to GBP 120billion a year, with
the absence of any new free trade agreements with European and Commonwealth
partners meaning no jobs would be lost.

Policies include ending uncontrolled mass immigration, with an immediate
fie-year freeze on immigration for permanent settlement and a points system to
limit future arrivals to fewer than 50,000 a year.

Once Britain left the EU all immigrants, including those from Europe, would have
time-limited work permits or visas. Border Agency staff would be tripled to
30,000.

Muslim face-coverings such as the burkha would be banned in public and private
companies would be allowed to ban them on their premises as part of efforts to
"restore Britishness".

UKIP would also scrap National Insurance contributions, merging them with income
tax to create a 31 per cent flat tax on incomes over GBP 11,500 a year.

It would replace VAT with a local sales tax, merge state pensions and benefits
into a minimum GBP 130-a-week "citizen's pension".

It would double the number of prison places and boost military spending by 40
per cent, as well as calling for a Royal Commission on global warming, saying it
is sceptical about claims of man-made change.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage launches his party's campaign yesterday, with poster

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              198 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

Campaign 2010: On the ground: Pearson backs rivals who are Eurosceptic: UK
Independence party

BYLINE: Helene Mulholland

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 468 words


The UK Independence party launched its manifesto yesterday with a promise not to
stand against some candidates from other parties because they are considered
sufficiently Eurosceptic.

Ukip's new poster features Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg alongside
the slogan "sod the lot". Buoyed after coming second in the European elections
last June, in which it got 13 MEPs elected, Ukip is fielding 550 candidates at
the general election. It is targeting Buckingham - the constituency of John
Bercow, the Commons speaker - where its former leader Nigel Farage is standing.

But the party says it has identified constituencies where standing a candidate
could prevent "someone getting into the House of Commons who really is a
Eurosceptic". It said it would not campaign against one independent and five
Tories. It will also support Labour's David Drew in Stroud by fielding a Ukip
candidate, Steve Parker, who will focus his efforts on persuading supporters to
back Labour.

Ukip's leader, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, named five Conservative candidates that
Ukip would not run against as Philip Davies (Shipley), Douglas Carswell
(Clacton), Philip Hollobone (Kettering), Janice Small (Batley and Spen) and Alex
Story (Wakefield). It will also not run against independent Bob Spink in Castle
Point, who resigned the Tory whip in 2008.

Pearson said none of the candidates concerned had asked for Ukip's support. "We
are not just standing aside," he said. "What we going to do is rather different:
we are going to actively campaign for all these candidates."

Drew, who described his views on Europe as "traditional Labour", said he did not
know how Ukip support would affect his campaign.

Pearson said he was hoping for a hung parliament because Ukip would be in a
better position at the subsequent election to insist that none of the "old
failed parties" could form a government unless they promised a referendum on the
EU.

"Above all, the prize for us is to get the whole system of binding national
referendums, which is the only way that the British people are going to
reconnect with the power which has been taken from them by the political class
over the last 50 years," he said. "So, yes, I never thought I'd say it, but roll
on a hung parliament because at least down that route lies hope."

The party was presenting the election as a choice between public sector cuts
under the main parties versus no cuts under Ukip, said Pearson.

Ukip's manifesto promises an "end to uncontrolled mass immigration" through the
introduction of a five-year immigration freeze followed by a stricter
points-based system. It reaffirms a plan to ban the Muslim burqa in public
buildings and promises to set up a royal commission to "allow scientists to
reach a conclusion about the facts and economic implications of global warming".

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              199 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

Campaign 2010: On the ground: Marina Hyde's campaign trail Ukip bluntly
struggles to be edgy

BYLINE: Marina Hyde

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 787 words


Ukip's Nigel Farage had promised that the party would run "the edgiest campaign
in British political history". So edgy he'd even shed his blazer? Only time
would show. Arriving at yesterday's manifesto launch, held in the tiny back room
of a Westminster restaurant, one had to wonder if Nigel had overplayed his hand.

"He might have done," muttered Ukip's press chief, Gawain Towler. But party
workers were giggling admiringly at the official campaign T-shirts.

"I love it when you talk straight to me," ran the insanely risque slogan of one,
while the other bore the legend: "Withdrawal! Before it's too late". Ah, an
ejaculation joke. It turned out that the event was being held in the restaurant
because it was in the same building as the BBC and Sky's Westminster studios.
Ukip was realistic, admitted Gawain. "We can probably make them come three
floors downstairs." Alas, a phonecall requesting directions revealed the journey
wasn't quite so simple for all concerned. "The party chairman is so much part of
political life that he doesn't know where this building is . . ."

Easily the most brilliant joke in the manifesto is reference to what "a Ukip
government" would do. But the document also makes much of "the LibLabCon" -
rather recalling those people who honk about ZaNuLiarBore in the mistaken belief
that they're being arch - and still refers to Britain in the third person
feminine. "She has lost control of her borders." Matron! Ukip also wishes to
reinstate "the banking corset". If its campaign struggles in its second act,
perhaps they could rush out T-shirts reading: "My other top is a banking
corset".

Kicking off the launch proper, the deputy leader, David Campbell-Bannerman,
promised policies "from animal welfare to pubs" - truly, the full gamut of
thinking from Y to Z. There will be no cuts with Ukip, who promise to spend 40%
more on defence. Prisons are another of their big ideas, as in more people were
going to be put in them, which meant more would have to be built, thus creating
lots of jobs. The logic was faultless if you didn't think about it.

And so to the leadership. When Farage announced he would be devoting his
energies to standing against the Speaker, John Bercow, in Buckingham, the
party's top job was taken over by the former Tory peer Lord Pearson of Rannoch,
the sort of patrician dullard you pray not to be seated next to at dinner. He
has quite the way with metaphors. Brussels was "a corrupt octopus", and pretty
soon "we won't just have its tentacles round us, we'll be in its bowel."

By some presentational cock up, it fell to his lordship to explain Ukip's
eccentric policy of backing Eurosceptic MPs from other parties in some
constituencies, often while still fielding candidates themselves. "We're going
to actively campaign for Eurosceptics," he declared, before explaining that they
were fielding a candidate in Stroud, but that the chap was using his election
address to tell people to vote for the Tory candidate. But if not, to vote for
him. "We're going to have billboards saying: "Ukip says vote for . . . whoever
it is," rambled Pearson. "Our candidates - where we have them - say: 'If you
possibly can, you vote for mostly the Conservative candidate . . . or if not
hold your nose and by all means vote for me . . .'

None of these people have actually asked for our help," he explained,
unwittingly invoking the old "with friends like these" cliche. Before long, it
was on to Ukip's proposed ban of the burqa and niqab in public "and some
private" buildings. How were they going to enforce that? "We haven't said
private buildings," countered Pearson.

Well you have. It's in your manifesto. "Have we?" his lordship wondered of his
more junior colleagues. Doubtless he'll get round to reading the 15-page
document in good time.

Tag-teaming Pearson was the more seasoned media hand Farage, who has an enduring
line in misplaced confidence. "I don't want to be rude about the other parties -
that's not my style," he smiled knowingly, in the manner of a man who fondly
imagines he has a style other than "affable berk".

Still, he was Churchillian in comparison with some of the other candidates to
whom we were introduced. There was the boxing promoter and Barking hopeful Frank
Maloney, confirming Ukip's commitment to bringing the finest minds to bear on
British politics, and a Serbian woman standing in North Kensington (so soon
after Ukip's immigration lecture, one didn't like to bring up the ironies). And
finally, "our surprise candidate". "Move over Sam Cam, move over Sarah -
standing in Kensington is Caroline, Lady Pearson of Rannoch!"

An edgy finale indeed. England expects to see her ladyship in one of the
ejaculate T-shirts at her earliest convenience.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              200 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday

Ukip hopes Buckingham will be 2010's Tatton

BYLINE: Mark Seddonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 737 words

ABSTRACT

Mark Seddon: With locals fuming over expenses, and Ukip speaking the language of
middle England, John Bercow's seat is up for grabs

FULL TEXT

A hideous truth is revealed to elderly police officer Sol Roth (played by Edward
G Robinson) in the dystopian 1973 science fiction film : in a rapidly
overheating world, where there is little food, the main nutrition - green wafers
produced by the Soylent Green Corporation - are in fact reprocessed human
beings.

Roth, from memory, has by this time turned himself in to a government-assisted
suicide clinic - in reality a giant reprocessing plant. His final moments are
spent watching giant images of sunlit, waving cornfields and the like, until he
too is turned into wafers for the starving masses.

I was reminded of these giant images as the two main parties unveiled their
manifestos to somewhat surreal backdrops of the English countryside, replete
with waving cornfields and sunny uplands. Quite what message all of this is
supposed to convey is something of a mystery.

So it was almost a relief to be able to escape to the Buckingham launch of  to
unseat Speaker John Bercow yesterday, where the only waving was of gesticulating
arms and hands. Farage, of course, is adept at savaging the "political classes",
who he believes are in the process of playing out the most boring election in
living memory.

He didn't quite say to the elderly folk gathered that Britain's general election
is beginning to feel like a bog standard county council election - but he did
get plenty of applause when he said this was because most policy is now made in
Brussels.

At the ripe old age of 47, I realised as I Iooked around the civic hall that I
was probably the second youngest in the audience. There had been some muttering
about "something fishy going on", as a giant "Ukipper" handed out leaflets on
behalf of independent anti-sleaze candidate, John Stevens, but by and large here
was a slightly aggrieved gathering of around 300 people who had given up an
evening to come and listen to Nigel Farage, Ukip leader,  and journalist
Christopher Booker.

Booker was supposed to be the warm-up act, but got to the finishing line after
40 minutes, provoking a tetchy man at the back to demand that "speakers now keep
it short!" To be fair to Booker, he plugged away at all of the traditional Ukip
- and middle England - dislikes: the European Union, a corrupted political
class, the bogey of global warming and ludicrous wind turbines.

He got his biggest cheer when he demanded that voters "chuck out that little
prat, Bercow". It then fell to Lord Pearson to deliver a mercifully short
contribution in the manner of a bank manager, before the star of the show took
the stage in front of garish yellow and purple Ukip banners.

Nigel Farage is a past master at this - he recalled standing for the first time,
and getting fewer votes than Screaming Lord Sutch. But then he surprisingly ran
into a heckler as he was delivering a homily about mass migration from eastern
Europe."Well, at least you can get a plumber!" hooted an elderly chap in a tweed
jacket.

Farage, who has come under some pretty heavy flack for milking his EU expenses
to the hilt - and for the fact that two of his former close MEP colleagues,  and
, were found guilty of fiddling expenses and benefits, is hoping to unseat John
Bercow, who also got . But can Farage hope to overturn a 17,000 or so majority
in what is a small "c" Conservative seat, and where Bercow is seen as having
been a good local MP?

It's early days, but my hunch is that Farage will hit a ceiling of support. But
nor do I think Bercow is home and dry. Locals are still fuming over the expenses
scandal, and if national polls are anything to go by the expenses record of
their MP will influence at least 38% of those who say they will vote.

The safe repository for votes from all persuasions could well turn out to be the
former Tory MEP John Stevens, whose appeal has won my vote, and whose odds are
shortening at the bookies. More significantly, he has the support of the
white-suited Martin Bell, who will be arriving on Thursday to meet the serried
mass of Buckingham shoppers.

Could Buckingham become the Tatton of the 2010 general election? Just possibly.
In the meantime, the contest here is at least real, raw and interesting. Oh, and
fun.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              201 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Nevin's notes;
An alternative take on the election

BYLINE: Charles Nevin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 526 words


* Is it me, or is nostalgia now the main theme of this campaign? Labour's slogan
might be "A Future Fair For All", but it is accompanied by a picture of a family
clearly from the Fifties. David Cameron's "We're All In This Together" cries out
for those celebrated riders, "Don't panic!" from Dad's Army's Corporal Jones,
and "Doomed!" from Private Fraser. UKIP's "Sod The Lot" has a similar feel,
which is perhaps not surprising from a party whose leader has ringingly
declared: "If the Germans turn nasty to get their way in Europe, we'll do it
again, we'll beat them. I don't see any difficulty with it, as long as we retain
our nuclear deterrent". Crikey. But then Lord Pearson is an interesting chap: he
can stalk, kill and gralloch a deer by himself and in 1977 God appeared to him
during a varicose vein operation. I doubt even Vince Cable can match that.

* Stars! I'm not sure that Alan Johnson, the only kaftan-wearing,
keyboard-playing member of Sixties band The In-Betweens to become a postman and
Home Secretary, should be making enemies of one of our most forward-looking
faith groups. But read this: "Looking at Cameron is like reading a horoscope -
at first glance it tells you want you want to see but when you delve deeper it's
all superficial." Well, naturally I turned to Mystic Meg (did you know she's
from Accrington?) to discover the outlook for Alan. It cost me £9.95. Hmmm. Not
entirely encouraging, I fear. Alan: have you still got that kaftan?

* Soap! There was talk of John Major and his soapbox making a dramatic return in
this election. And this, let me tell you, is a man who appreciates drama: to
make one important announcement during his time in office, for example, he
changed from his grey suit into another grey suit. But what is this? Jack Straw,
owner of the second-most famous soap box in British politics, has been in
Reading with it, refreshments being handed up to him by candidates during the
course of a speech described by one onlooker as "interminable". Come on, Sir
John, you can easily beat that! (And no, I haven't forgotten my promise to tell
you about Jack and the ice-cream van before 6 May).

* Stars (2)! Hold everything, more faith group news - from the Jedi Knights! I
had asked them if they were going to endorse any of the parties, no small matter
considering that, according to the 2001 census, there are 390,000 in this
country, making Jediism our fourth-largest religion. The reply is from Master
Zemba, of the Order of the Jedi, replies: "There is no official position
regarding the election in our organisation". Which means, sadly, that in May the
force will be with no one in particular.

* Canvas opportunity. An occasional service for anyone worried about being at a
loose end on 7 May: Halford's is advertising for a sleeping bag tester at £600 a
week. The tester will have to sleep under canvas for five days, testing a range
of bags for warmth and strength. Former MPs may worry that they do not have the
credentials for the job, what with their second homes, but a spokesman for
Halfords says: "Previous camping experience would be a bonus but we're not
ruling out a novice." More as I have them.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              202 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Party to step aside for anti-EU rivals

BYLINE: Michael Savage POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 318 words


LABOUR AND Tory candidates in some marginal seats are to receive the surprise
support of a rival, after the UK Independence Party announced it is to back the
campaigns of Eurosceptic MPs at risk of losing their seats.

Revealing Ukip's manifesto in Westminster yesterday, Lord Pearson, the party's
leader, unveiled posters featuring the faces of Gordon Brown, David Cameron and
Nick Clegg that called on voters to "sod the lot". However, he said his party
would stand aside in some constituencies where there was a danger their
candidate would split the vote and inadvertently unseat a "committed
Eurosceptic".

Five Conservatives and one Labour politician are set to benefit from Ukip-funded
billboards calling on voters to turn out for the sitting MP. Philip Davies, in
Shipley, Douglas Carswell in Clacton, Janice Small in Batley and Spen, Alex
Story in Wakefield, and Philip Hollobone in Kettering, will all have Ukip's
support. Ukip will also not oppose Bob Spink, the independent MP for Castle
Point.

The lucky Labour candidate to win their support is David Drew, the MP for
Stroud. While a Ukip candidate is already registered to contest the seat, Lord
Pearson said his supporters would now be "asking voters to back the Labour
candidate if possible".

Lord Pearson argued that leaving the EU would save Britain £120bn a year, but
that negotiating a Switzerland-style free trade deal would mean trade and jobs
would be unaffected. The party that finished second in the European elections in
June also plans to ban Muslim face coverings such as the burqa. Ukip pledged to
grant local and national referendums supported by 5 per cent of the population.
It also promised to end "uncontrolled mass immigration" with a five-year
immigration freeze.

Ukip's Nigel Farage, who is hoping to unseat John Bercow, the Speaker, in
Buckingham, said that the election campaign had so far amounted to a "piddling
irrelevancy".

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              203 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Ukip if you want to, he's in the pub by half ten;
Sketch

BYLINE: Simon Carr

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 711 words


John Bercow is to be banned from all public buildings in Britain. Brilliant! A
bit un-British, but a bold stroke in the Ukip manifesto. Clear, clinical, a
little brutal, popular with all right-thinking people who regarded the Speaker's
election as a stain on the Constitution.

I'd arrived for Ukip's manifesto launch and couldn't see very well at the back
there, half in and half out of the packed little room. But there it was, loud
and clear, "banning the Bercow" (he's already been banned, apparently, from
public buildings in France).

"It's the burqa, you ass," a colleague interrupted. "They're banning the burqa
from public buildings."

No, no, it's better the other way. We all know that donning "the full Bercow"
conceals your appearance, masks your intentions and allows you to appear to your
constituents as a Conservative - while underneath you're supporting the values
of equality and high public spending of the Labour Party. On Ukip's analysis,
many vulnerable Tory candidates have been forced into this depressing,
restrictive and freedom-denying garb, limiting their natural expression of who
they are and what they want to be. Yes, from Nigel Farage's viewpoint, as we
were into the third pint of the morning, "the full Bercow" is the case with the
Conservative party tout entier. "They're not Conservatives, they're a social
democratic party like all the others, with piddling differences between them."

People wonder if Ukip is fit for executive power. I can tell you they'd got the
pub to open half an hour earlier than allowed so we could drink beer and watch
the Tory launch on the TV. A first for me, actually, drinking beer at 10.30am.
I'd thought of asking Farage if he drank too much, but I had no follow-up to the
question, "Too much for what?"

Farage laughs a lot, smokes, drinks before lunch, makes questionable jokes, made
a lot of money in futures, and was perfectly at ease in the broker culture of
what we now call sexist bullying. When asked what took him into politics, he
doesn't say "to put something back" or "to make the world a better place". He
says: "Anger."

He is, in short, what the people of Buckingham would recognise as a proper Tory.
And to watch him watch the Tory launch is to watch what proper Tories think.
That's very different from what the leadership thinks, and it's a measure of how
far Cameron has taken his party. All credit to him and so forth, because proper
Tories only number 30 per cent of the vote. But it's most probable that most
Tories in most pubs think what Farage was thinking. That nobody wants to see
Theresa May and Andrew Lansley talking about anything. That Osborne might at
least have learnt his speech enough not to stumble. That there was "nothing you
could get hold of", and "nothing about Europe or immigration". That the
leadership manifesto consisted of "aspirations and platitudinous nonsense" - and
that it would probably get Cameron into Downing Street.

That presents Ukip with its best opportunity, Farage says. "Two years into their
term, millions of voters will realise they don't have a conservative
government." And then ... what? Ukip will strike? I couldn't follow the
opportunity but asked how it might present itself.

"It'll be immigration that does it. In April of this year, the eastern European
populations will get full benefit rights in Britain. After 12 weeks' work, all
EU migrants will be able to claim all benefits that Brits can claim.

"There'll be the second wave," he said. How many's that? It was the best part of
a million last time, who knows?

There's no answer to this in the political class - and no mention in the
manifestos - because there's no way of controlling EU movement of labour. This
sort of argument will be familiar to critics of Ukip, but let's see how the
numbers come down, and on which side of the argument, and how the BNP do when
the numbers are known.

Until then, the Tory party are telling us to revolutionise public service
delivery: "Do your bit. Play your part. We're all in this together." They are
"extending an invitation to join the Government of Great Britain". Who to? To
everyone in the country. I'm thinking about it. But what are the hours? Do we
get expenses? How do we get home? And above all, can we fire Osbo?

twitter.com/simonsketch

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              204 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     April 14, 2010 Wednesday 11:49 AM GMT

The Tory manifesto: yes, it would be nice to have the WI running meals on wheels
- but where's the plan to stop Britain drowning in debt?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1132 words


What a pity that this election campaign cannot be shortened by a week or two.
It's not just that the tedium would be cut short, but that it might just
concentrate the minds of the political classes on the need to say something
substantial about how they would save us from simply drowning in debt.

The publication of the NuLab and Conservative manifestos hardly got the
political blood rushing through our veins with the excitement of it all.
Labour's seemed unable to explain why radical policies are needed to put right
so many things that have been the subject of endless reforms, upheavals, changes
and re-organisations for the past 13 years, the section on immigration being a
particular insult to the common sense and experience of (not least traditionally
loyal Labour) voters.

The Tory document had some good ideas and proposals scattered about within it,
particularly on schools, but much of the rest seemed stronger on ideas and
aspirations than on thought-through proposals to achieve them. Yes, it would be
great to get back to a society in which the Women's Institute ran the meals on
wheels, and retired solicitors, business people and sensible ladies ran the
Citizen's Advice Bureau; where there was no shortage of good people to run the
Scouts and Guides or Salvation Army or church folk to help families in
difficulties, and still enough people left over to ensure that political parties
had active grassroots memberships rather than being dominated by the Westminster
political class. I am not sure, however, that it can be organised quite as
easily as some of my friends assume.

Most depressingly of all, although the major parties agree that something should
be done to reduce the budgetary deficit at some time not too far away, they seem
to have no plans to do anything to reduce our debts within the lifetime of the
next Parliament. I fear that if pressed they would all resort to talk about
paying off debt at some time in future "out of the proceeds of growth". That is
like the guy who has just once again consolidated all his debts on to a new
credit card saying that although he will have to keep increasing the balance
owing for another few years, he is expecting to get a better paid job at some
time which would enable him to make a start on the repayments.

I wish it were otherwise, but I was underwhelmed by it all.

Then, joy of joys, I found on page two of the Telegraph the announcement which
changed my day. I have been honoured in my own lifetime with the issue of a
commemorative postage stamp, and for first class postage too. There was picture
of the stamp and I must say it is a very fine polecat on it. So I am especially
grateful to my dear friend Peter Mandelson who as Business Secretary must have
agreed it should be sent to the Queen for her approval. What a kind man he is.

I was interested to see the robust exchange of views on this site on the subject
of tactical voting on which it would be mostly superfluous for me to comment.
However, the question raised by 'Wilson' about its effects in Scotland is
interesting. I think it has been going on there for sometime with Conservatives
voting SNP to keep Labour out. Sadly no one seems to be pressing Alex Salmond on
how independent his 'independent' Scotland would be if it remained in the EU,
where it would have the voting power of Finland. Or whether he would have a
Scottish Pound, join the euro (if the Germans would let him in) or simply tag
along using Sterling without a batsqueak of a voice on English monetary or
fiscal policy.

'Rastus C Tastey' I think makes it all too complicated. To a large extent he is
right to say that votes going to UKIP will put pressure on Cameron. However if
they result in Brown being returned to office, pressure on Cameron will not do
us much good.

'Gary4' advised us to read Boris. There is no need. I explained the need to
remove not just Gordon Brown but NuLab from office on this blog a little while
ago. I am pleased but not suprised that Boris agrees.

'aasvogel' treated us all to a splendid diatribe on treason. There are two
things he should remember. First, there was a referendum in 1975. The question
was not a very fair one but there was a very large majority for acceptance of
the terms of our membership of the EEC. Were all those who voted "Yes" guilty of
treason? Second, there is a great deal of truth in that old doggerel verse:
"Treason never shall prosper. For if it doth, No man dare call it so."

It was very good of 'gkk1' to apologise for heckling me so many years ago. I am
sure it livened up the meeting. I was just sad that his politics teachers did
not understand the origins or nature of fascism, and glad that he discovered the
truth for himself.

We enjoyed an interesting debate about the Battle of Britain. I'm afraid that
the facts got in the way of some of the views expressed. We came very close to
defeat not because of any shortage of aircraft but a shortage of pilots. Towards
the end young men who had scarcely learned to fly the Hurricane or Spitfire were
being thrown into the battle and many of them were dead within days. The Poles
and the Czechoslovakians were far more experienced, many of them
battle-hardened. 'ad1815' may be familiar with Waterloo but he forgets that both
sides in the Battle of Britain inflated their claimed numbers of kills by a
factor of at least three, so it is unwise to put too much weight on the ratio of
kills claimed by one group as opposed to another. What is beyond dispute is that
the names on the monuments in London and at Dover are correct. 2,917 men flew in
the battle. Of them 2,334 were British, 145 Polish, 126 New Zealanders, 99
Canadian, 88 Czechoslovakians, 33 Australian, 29, Belgian, 25 South African, 13
French, 11 American, 10 Irish, 3 Rhodesians, and 1 Jamaican. There was not an
Israeli since the state of Israel did not exist in 1940. It is highly probable
that there were Jewish pilots amongst those who fought, but the participants
were listed by nationality, not race nor religion. The pilot listed in some
accounts as being a Palestinian because he was born in Palestine was not Jewish.
I established that he was British, born in what is now Israel of British parents
who were working there. He is buried in England in a Christian cemetery. No
doubt some of those listed as British were Irish citizens who crossed the border
and declared themselves Ulstermen and some listed as Canadians were Americans as
it was an offence for Americans and Irish citizens to fight in foreign wars.

The central Europeans were important not merely by their numbers but by their
experience and determination to avenge the loss of their countries. I was proud
in later years to fly with some of them.I am sorry that the manifestos took
precedence over global warming. I have not forgotten.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              205 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Vote for the others, says UKIP

BYLINE: Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 316 words


The UK Independence Party made an unusual appeal to some of its supporters
yesterday: "Don't vote for us."

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the party leader, wants several candidates to follow
the example of Steve Parker, who is standing for UKIP in Stroud, and has
produced a leaflet in which he declares: "I ask you to vote for David Drew [the
Labour candidate] if possible. He is a committed Eurosceptic who will continue
to fight for our freedom in Parliament and I don't want to stop him getting
there."

Lord Pearson told The Times: "I hope I will be able to persuade a few of other
candidates to do the same. Some of our men are putting the bayonets in the wrong
enemy."

UKIP has said that it will not stand against eight candidates, mostly
Conservatives, who favour Britain leaving the European Union - and yesterday
Lord Pearson went farther, urging voters in some constituencies where UKIP is
standing to back someone else. "I don't think this has ever been done before,"
he said.

The manifesto's pledges - as well as leaving the EU - include freezing
immigration and banning the burka.

In Buckingham, the party's best hope of a seat, Nigel Farage, UKIP's former
leader, is challenging the Speaker, the other parties standing aside. "We see
him as our only hope against John Bercow," said Sue Moore, a 50-year-old IT
sales manager, yesterday. "It's expenses: Bercow's not a good ambassador for
Buckingham." Ms Moore said that only one thing might make her waver in her
support for Mr Farage: "I'm very pro-Europe."

Mr Farage hopes to exploit such anomalies. "There's a lot of confusion about the
election here," he said. "I'm in this campaign to say to people, 'You can send
an earthquake through British politics by toppling the man who is the symbol of
the last Parliament'."

Online

Live

Peter Riddell Discuss the latest Times poll with our chief political commentator
at 1pm

timesonline.co.uk/election10

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              206 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Vote for the others, says UKIP

BYLINE: Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 295 words


The UK Independence Party made an unusual appeal to some of its supporters
yesterday: "Don't vote for us."

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the party leader, wants several candidates to follow
the example of Steve Parker, who is standing for UKIP in Stroud, and has
produced a leaflet in which he declares: "I ask you to vote for David Drew [the
Labour candidate] if possible.

He is a committed Eurosceptic who will continue to fight for our freedom in
Parliament and I don't want to stop him getting there."

Lord Pearson told The Times: "I hope I will be able to persuade a few of other
candidates to do the same. Some of our men are putting the bayonets in the wrong
enemy."

UKIP has said that it will not stand against eight candidates, mostly
Conservatives, who favour Britain leaving the European Union - and yesterday
Lord Pearson went farther, urging voters in some constituencies where UKIP is
standing to back someone else. "I don't think this has ever been done before,"
he said.

The manifesto's pledges - as well as leaving the EU - include freezing
immigration and banning the burka.

In Buckingham, the party's best hope of a seat, Nigel Farage, UKIP's former
leader, is challenging the Speaker, the other parties standing aside. "We see
him as our only hope against John Bercow," said Sue Moore, a 50-year-old IT
sales manager, yesterday.

"It's expenses: Bercow's not a good ambassador for Buckingham." Ms Moore said
that only one thing might make her waver in her support for Mr Farage: "I'm very
pro-Europe."

Mr Farage hopes to exploit such anomalies. "There's a lot of confusion about the
election here," he said. "I'm in this campaign to say to people, 'You can send
an earthquake through British politics by toppling the man who is the symbol of
the last Parliament'."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              207 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday

DIARY

LENGTH: 1164 words


RICHARD KAY

TAMARA'S ROMANCE HITS THE SKIDS

Six months after Formula 1 tycoon Bernie Ecclestone found love again, at the age
of 79, there is less happy romantic news of his daughter Tamara, 25 (pictured).

The TV presenter and would-be pub landlord has broken up with her boyfriend of
the past two years, PR smoothie Rob Montague, 34, who was also her agent.

The break-up came at the weekend after the couple had enjoyed an Easter break in
Dubai. 'On their return, they began to question where their relationship was
going,' i am told, 'and more on Tamara's instigation, they have decided to call
it a day.'

Montague has moved out of Tamara's Chelsea house, which they had been sharing
with their four dogs, Alvin, Hobnob, Socky and Buster. i gather Tamara is
keeping all the pooches.

Says a friend: 'They both realised the romance had run its course and had been
growing apart.

'No-one cheated on anybody or anything like that. But Tamara is still very young
and i think she felt that, since it wasn't going anywhere, it was time to end
it. She wants to have some fun and be single again.'

Tamara is, meanwhile, throwing herself into her latest project, a pub in
Knightsbridge -- and looking for a new agent.

ODDBALL Labour donor David Abrahams, a wealthy property developer, has given a
telling insight into how he keeps his fortune intact. Abrahams, who gave the
party 6400,000 without revealing his name, discovered that travelling by train
to Birmingham from London Euston costs 644 for a single journey -- but from
nearby

Says a pal: 'David is backing Labour's manifesto policy to force train companies
to sell the lowest fare available and, to demonstrate it, walked to Marylebone
rather than pay the higher fare. 'Mind you, I can't tell you if he is donating
any money to the party for the election. He hasn't said.'

PRINCE WIllIam has been told where he will spend the next three years working as
an RaF search-and-rescue pilot. The decision will be announced on Thursday.
William, who filled in his own choice of base preferences, is understood to have
taken the journey for girlfriend Kate middleton into account. RaF Wattisham, in
Suffolk, where Prince Harry has been training with the army air Corps, is
thought to have been a favourite.

.TV STAR Susan Penhaligon is backing Nick Clegg's LibDems. 'i've been impressed
by both Nick -- and Vince Cable -- and think they've got what it takes to help
dig the country out of the mess it's in,' says Susan, 60, best known for
Seventies drama Bouquet Of Barbed Wire. However, Susan, who grew up in Cornwall
and was second cousin to the late Liberal MP David Penhaligon -- killed in a car
crash in 1986 -- has ruled out going into politics herself. 'i'm happy to cheer
them on from the sidelines,' she says. 'i enjoy acting too much to go into
politics -- at least for the forseeable future.'

BLAIR'S THE NEWKINGOF THE JUNGLE

JUST two weeks ago, he stormed back to the political fray with a passionate
speech in his old Sedgefield constituency in County Durham, complete with a
'non-dom' style suntan.

But the party stalwarts who cheered Tony Blair at Trimdon Labour Club may be
surprised to learn that, despite promises that he will be helping out with the
campaign, the former prime minister has been topping up his tan again.

Together with Cherie and his youngest son, Leo, Blair has been staying at one of
the world's most exclusive resorts -- Sir Richard Branson's private game
reserve, Ulusaba, by Kruger National Park.

The family booked the 62,480-apersonper-night, Cliff Lodge suite, a
tree-house-style retreat perched on a hill with magnificent views over a
watering hole, and which Branson with typical hyperbole lables 'Heaven in
Heaven'.

Naturally, it is well away from Ulusaba's other guests and comes with its own
chef , wine cellar, vehicle for game drives, wrap-around balcony, plunge pool
and Jacuzzi.

The lodge also has its own unique observatory for gazing at the night sky and
the Aroma Boma spa which offers the 'African Goddess' and the 'Dominant Male'
body treatments.

I gather the Blairs booked the holiday a year ago and have paid for it all
themselves.

The reserve provides twice-daily game drives and according to a fellow guest the
highlight of the family holiday was a dramatic 'kill' when Blair and his family
tracked a pride of hungry African lions as they hunted a herd of impala and
feasted on their prey.

Says one guest: 'I heard the Blairs were very excited that they had managed to
see a lion kill. Leo was particularly excited.'

Observes Labour MP Stephen Pound: 'You have to admire his confidence. I wish I
shared it. I would rather he was hunting down the big beasts in the marginal
seats.'

Blair's spokesman said: 'Tony Blair made clear his full support for Gordon Brown
and Labour's campaign, and he will certainly be back on the campaign trail
before polling day.'

COMIC Frankie Boyle, who was last week criticised for making jokes about Down's
syndrome, clearly finds cruelty sells. The former Mock The Week panellist has
had his fees increased by public speaking agency JLA.

Last year, Glasgow-born Boyle caused offence on the show with smutty remarks
about Olympic swimmer Rebecca Adlington.

His services were then being advertised by JLA at between 65,000 and 610,000 a
time. Now, perhaps commensurate with his public disapproval, the company have
promoted him to their 'A-grade' speaker status, with fees of 610,000 to 625,000.
'We don't comment about the individual situations behind people on our books ,'
says JLA boss Jeremy Lee. 'But as a general remark, it's selfevident that
people's fees can go up or down according to what they achieve in their own
career.'

LOVE REUNITED FOR COZMO

HATS off to Cozmo Jenks (pictured), the milliner to the stars who has fallen
madly in love with entrepreneur Justin Rose, an old friend she hadn't seen for
15 years.

'its the real thing and we are both very much in love,' says Cozmo, 36, whose
clients include the Countess of Wessex, Jodie Kidd and Kylie Minogue, at the Ri
tz Club for the champagne launch of the Goodwood racing colours collection.

' We literally bumped into each other by accident in Notting Hill eight months
ago.

'it's too early to talk about marriage, but this is very serious.'

Justin, who works in property and renewable energy, tells me: 'Cozmo was
standing in the street outside a Mexican restaurant having a fag when i came
walking past and fell over her.'

PS

POLITICAL convention has it that the main parties do not stand against the
Commons Speaker at general elections, so it's largely been left to other
candidates to try to unseat John Bercow.

Now I gather that a billboard bearing the Conservative logo sprang up in a field
in Bercow's Buckingham constituency a couple of days ago.

Is this a sign that the Speaker is being drawn into the fray?

There are no local elections being contested in the seat, suggesting that
Bercow, or his aides, are allowing the competition -- including Nigel Farage of
UKIP and independent John Stevens -- to get to him.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              208 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday

General election 2010 live blog

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 279 words

ABSTRACT

Andrew Sparrow covers all the latest election news and events, including David
Cameron launching the Conservative party's election manifesto

FULL TEXT

6.53am: Gordon Brown invited journalists to a spanking new hospital in
Birmingham yesterday for the publication of Labour's election manifesto. Today
David Cameron is launching the Conservative alternative and reporters have been
summoned to Battersea power station, a disused relic on the banks of the Thames
(although one earmarked for redevelopment). The press conference will be the
event of the day and it starts at 11am.

My colleague Nick Watt has got He's what he is saying:

David Cameron will promise to deliver the most extensive devolution of power in
a generation when he declares that a Conservative government would hand people
"direct control" over how they are governed nationally and locally.

In a direct invitation to voters to join him in governing Britain, the Tory
leader will promise in his election manifesto to offer California-style
referendums on any local issue if residents can win the support of 5% of the
population.

Adopting historic language from the Labour movement about the "collective
strength" of society, Cameron will also pledge to let people "be your own boss"
as public sector workers are allowed to assume ownership of the services they
provide.

Labour aren't holding a morning press conference. But Nick Clegg is in action.
He's unveiling plans to curb bank bonuses at 7.30. Plaid Cymru and the United
Kingdom Independence Party are also launching their manifestos today.

I'm heading into Westminster now where I'll be covering the Lib Dem event.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              209 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday

Cameron wants a nation of volunteers. I'm not convinced

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1079 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: Meanwhile, Ukip's manifesto struck me as the sort of thing lots
of Tories would write after drinking a pint of white wine and a couple of pink
gins

FULL TEXT

So much high-minded idealism in one day, I feel exhausted. Not just David
Cameron's prolix manifesto launch, which kept reminding me of Gordon Brown's,
but the Lib Dems' five-point plan for curbing perverse financial incentives
among risk-prone bankers. Why, I even enjoyed Ukip's manifesto launch in what
must have been the smallest broom cupboard ever used for such a purpose.

Where to start? With Dave, of course. He's the one who's going to be prime
minister next month unless he screws up badly. Today he didn't. Indeed, he had a
little outburst of candour and eloquence about getting big government off
everyone's backs that provoked real applause from his audience. Even we hacks
noticed.

This was triggered by the key question posed by . What if people don't want to
accept your  to reshape society through countless individual and community
initiatives? What if they want to carry on watching TV or gardening?

A very good question. The Cameroon big idea is that the state tries to do too
much and does it badly. Lift the burden of tax and state intervention and a
thousand flowers will bloom, says Cameron. Interviewing shadow ministers as they
left  - itself a Thatcher-era reminder of the limits of market solutions - I
found that they all seemed genuinely fired up by it, even Sir George Young, who
is old enough to know better.

It's a lovely idea. George Bush Sr got elected on a version of it - do you
remember ""? - in 1988 and unelected on it by Bill Clinton in 1992. The tension
that exists between actions that are appropriate to collective solutions and
those better solved in the private sphere is enduring. There's no easy answer.

But ? Not sure about that. The collapse of voluntary action has been a marked
feature of the past 30 years. Many of us have become two-income working
families, earning money to survive or to afford the new widescreen TV and the
second foreign holiday. It's hard to get people to serve as school governors,
let alone to start whole new schools along Swedish lines.

Never mind. It was a decent and wholesome event, though weirdly staged inside a
steel and canvas tent inside the shell of the famous power station. They shot
movies here, good and bad, Dave told us, including an Ashes to Ashes episode and
a Doctor Who.

Yet the party's most bankable performer, Ken Clarke, was parked well out of the
shot and denied a platform speech - unlike George Osborne, Michael Gove, Andrew
Lansley, Theresa (who she?) May, Caroline (ditto) Spelman and Lady Warsi. At
least they all have jobs. Most of the women on the platform were there as
decoration, symbols of gender and ethnic diversity.

Personally, I think Warsi - a northern, Muslim woman and lawyer - has potential,
and I  for Osborne (whom I barely know). But the rest are second order players.
Whoops, I forgot William Hague, whom I once hoped that advancing years would
improve. Instead I have come to see him as slightly sinister. It's  of his, I
think.

None of it cut much ice at the , where Nigel Farage, the party's ex-leader, MEP
and wannabe MP for Speaker Bercow's Buckingham seat, held court with his
successor, Lord Malcolm Pearson of Rannoch, and Lord David Campbell-Bannerman,
the descendant of a Liberal . They all complained that the election so far has
been boring and ducked the real issues.

What is a week's debate on £6bn worth of national insurance charges when we pay
£16bn a year to the EU and borrowed £170bn last year, they asked. "We are no
longer a single-issue party," insisted DCB before rattling off a long list of
implausible policies such as leaving the EU; electing county health boards;
putting matron in charge on the ward; including non-academic skills in the
11-plus; cutting out red tape, especially EU red tape; spending 40% more on the
army ... And so on.

Lots of gorgeous stuff in the small print, but idealistic and well-meant in its
way. They are all oozing sincerity in this campaign. It's the ungrateful voters
who drip with cynicism.

But Ukip's package struck me as the sort of manifesto lots of Tories would write
after drinking a pint or so of white wine and a couple of pink gins on a
Saturday night, but bin when they woke up with a headache and read it on Sunday
morning. That's probably what most floating Tory voters will probably do on 6
May too, the temptation to vote in a winner after 13 years is too great to
resist.

'"Don't write off little Ukip," says Farage, a likeable rascal, I've always
felt, who shook off Andrew Neil's complaint at today's press conference about
his £2m worth of EU expenses since 1999.

All spent on staff, not a penny on me, he said. And the wife's salary? She
worked for free until 2007, he replied, unblinking. And that's the new politics
talking ...

What is undeniably new is Ukip's policy of urging voters not to vote for their
candidate in places where six Tory MPs and one Labour are so Eurosceptic that
they win Ukip's approval. Posters are going up saying "Ukip says vote Tory here,
but vote Ukip if you really don't want to." Fun, eh?

Try as it may, Ukip keeps coming back to its core subject: Europe. Pearson said
this was the last chance to resist the European superstate; it would soon all be
over for Britain as an independent country. Yet the three most contentious
policies of the last decade - Iraq, the unfettered banking system and the
unbalanced UK budget - were all carried out in express defiance of EU sentiment
and policy, I mused aloud. We had an enjoyable spat, mediated by Andrew Neil's
heckles.

And so to the Lib Dems' 7.30 am session, the bribe for attendance being bacon
sarnies and decent coffee. Clegg and Vince Cable unveiled a sensible five-point
plan for discouraging testosterone-soaked bankers from ruining us all to win
huge bonuses. It sounded perfectly sensible to me. They want bonuses paid mostly
in deferred shares; they even want banks that aren't in profit to be forbidden
from paying bonuses at all. Shocking!

What was interesting was that Clegg handled the economic stuff with almost as
much fluency and confidence as the saintly Cable. I hadn't spotted that. 22 days
to go.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              210 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

'Who will I vote for? Same as my mum, I suppose';
The Independent has sent its writers back to their home towns to test the
pre-election mood. Paul Vallely is struck by the prevailing apathy in his native
North-east Election 2010 Home Front Middlesbrough

BYLINE: Paul Vallely

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 3022 words


My old school has gone now. They've built a few rows of neat little white-clad,
fresh-brick bungalows - just right for pensioners - on the spot where my
political consciousness had its first aberrant blossoming.

We were aged 10, as I recall, and the father of a girl in my class at St Francis
Primary School in Middlesbrough was standing for parliament in a by-election. In
the little schoolyard, where the bungalows' precise little parking plots now
stand, our playtime activities all began the same way. You would get two or
three friends, twine your arms round one another's shoulders and tour the
playground chanting: "All join on if you want to play Cowboys and Indians".
Political correctness had not then been conceived. The tough boys got to be the
Cowboys; the weedy ones had to be the Indians.

But in May 1962 the chant became a different one. "All join on if you vote for
Mr Connelly" as, in our political awakening, we sang:

Vote, vote, vote for Mr Conn-lee

Chuck old Labour out the door

If he goes to tell his wife

We will stab him with a knife

And he won't go voting any more.

I should not have been singing that. Bernard Connelly was a Conservative - and
we were a Labour family, though I did not know it then. My Grandad had been a
union man, down the steelworks, before he ended up in the local sanatorium with
lung disease. He had been a leading light of the penny-a-week co-operative which
was the forerunner of the National Health Service. My Dad had stepped a rung up
the social ladder because he was a teacher, the first professional in the
family, but he still voted Labour. "It's the party of the working man," my
uncles would say.

But there was ambivalence towards Bernard Connelly. He had been a naval officer
in the war and afterwards had read economics at Cambridge before becoming
marketing manager at Head Wrightson, the local engineering company which made
the blast furnaces for the steelworks. He was a classic Conservative. But he was
a Catholic, as we were. In the Sixties Catholics still felt like a beleaguered
minority, much as Muslims do today. A Catholic Conservative was enough to
seriously muddle my elders' badges of tribal identity. Some of these Labour men
actually voted Conservative, on the quiet, just the once, like.

They may do so again this May. The steelworks, which once provided jobs for
30,000 local men, closed a few weeks ago, throwing the final 1,600 men employed
in steel-making on Teesside onto the dole. It was not good news for a town
two-thirds of which is classed as deprived in national indices. Not for nothing
is Middlesbrough twinned with Dunkirk, as one waggish outsider put it, though
the truth is that a quarter of the ships involved in the notorious Second World
War evacuation were from Teesport. I had been in the town the day the Corus
steel plant finally closed. A man the same age as me was interviewed on the
local TV news. What would he do now, the interviewer asked. "There's no jobs,"
he replied. "I suppose I'll just watch the telly for the rest of my life."

My old school may have been too small to survive the endless reconfigurations of
the education system over the years but the church community from which it grew
is thriving. Though it was a Wednesday, the midday Mass was well-attended.
Around 70 people, mainly retired, filled the pews at St Francis and then moved
across to the church's social club for a Soup and Roll lunch.

"The main thing is the economy," said Raymond Sullivan, who before he retired
was a researcher at British Steel. "Brown has got the experience." Sharing his
table for the choice of Carrot & Coriander, Stilton and Broccoli or Ham Broth,
was Dave Sargeant, who had spent 41 years in design on the ammonia production
line at that other great mainstay of Teesside's great manufacturing past, ICI.
He took the opposite view. "I've no confidence in the Tories," he said, "but I
couldn't do another five years of Labour."

At the tables all round there was plenty of political steam being let off - on
the government's failure to save Corus, MPs' expenses, the bail-out of the
banks, the NHS, the lack of support for our troops in Afghan-istan, the Human
Rights Act, and even - 25 years on - Margaret Thatcher and the miners' strike.
"I've always been Labour," said Susan Smith, now in her 70s after a life spent
as a cleaner. "They fought for the miners". Memories are long in Middlesbrough.

The question was: would any of the righteous indignation alter the way people
voted?

Most people conceded they would default, when the day came, to old ways. "I
guess a lot of my thinking is habitual," said a retired manager and traditional
Tory, Brian Gibbon. "I'm concerned about David Cameron's inexperience but
something massive would have to happen to stop me voting Conservative." Dave
Sargeant shrugged his agreement: "When push comes to shove I suppose I'll vote
as I always have."

But a significant minority said something notably different. "I've always voted
Labour, though I did switch to Thatcher when I was having trouble with the
unions," said Jim Kelly, a retired factory manager. He is worried that a lot of
the money that Labour put into the NHS was wasted "on things like the doctors'
pay rise". He's outraged that his daughter, who served in the Army, had to ring
home to ask for food parcels to be sent to her in Kosovo. And he's disturbed by
New Labour's confrontational attitudes to the church and the judiciary. "I'll
vote Conservative. A change is needed."

His wife, Rose, a former nurse, who previously voted Labour and was a fan of
Tony Blair - and appears to be the only person in the town who was in favour of
invading Iraq - now says she is a floating voter. "I feel that David Cameron and
George Osborne are a couple of Eton boys playing with the economy but the
welfare state is turning into a nanny state and making people dependent on
benefits. I suppose in the end I'll have to decide what is the least bad
option."

But a considerable number at the soup lunch - around a quarter of those I
interviewed - had made a decision not to vote at all. "There isn't enough
difference between the parties," said Natasha Peiris, an IT consultant. "I
wouldn't cross the doorstep to vote," said a Carrot & Coriander spooner at the
next table. "They're all a pack of crooks." This was not a rhetorical flourish,
she insisted, but a firm resolution not to legitimise a discredited political
caste by voting for any of them.

Wouldn't personal loyalty to the incumbent MP Sir Stuart Bell, who has been in
the job for 27 years, count for anything? "Quite the opposite," said the Labour
stalwart Raymond Sullivan. "He doesn't hold surgeries in the town. We never see
him."

"I don't know who he is," said Susan Smith. "Nor does anyone else," quipped
another woman at her table.

"He's a non-entity as far as local people are concerned," said Brian Gibbon.
"The invisible man," said Rose Kelly. "I've never seen him in the flesh in my
entire life," said Bernard Marron, a retired chiro-podist, adding, "mind, I'm
only 73".

The degree of personal contempt for the MP which I encountered in my two days
back in the town, was more widespread than I have ever come across in any other
constituency. But would it be, with a his customary massive majority, a decisive
factor? "Probably not," said Raymond Sullivan. "They might not like the guy but
most of them won't vote Conservative."

A low turn-out seems in prospect. Perhaps voters at the other end of the age
spectrum might be more enthusiastic, I mused, as I drove to the town's new mecca
of contemporary art, mima - as the trendily middlesbrough institute of modern
art calls itself. There were certainly plenty of young people around but not
much by way of increased political engagement.

A group of first year Art & Design students from Middlesbrough College were
milling around in the all-glass atrium. "The Government should have saved the
steel industry and they should do something about petrol prices," said Michael
Webster, who, at 17, is still a year off voting but was the most forthcoming of
the group. "And they should make more places available at university." But
Lauren Stevenson, who at 18 will be eligible to vote for the first time, was
more typical in saying that she probably would not bother. "I'm not really into
politics," she said. "My grandfather was, he was a councillor." For which party?
"I'm not sure." What policies would she like the next government to adopt. " I
don't know really". Did she prefer Gordon Brown - or David Cameron? "Who's he?"
Would she vote? "I'm not really motivated."

Down Albert Road in Cafe Pronto another 18-year-old was slightly more
enthusiastic. "I'll vote," said Abbi Wilkinson. "It'll be exciting, the first
time?" So who for? "Dunno. Same as my mum, I suppose."

Her mother was sitting next to her, and her mother next to her. "I don't know
who to vote for, with all this expenses business," said Kathleen Wilkinson.
"I've been against Gordon Brown for ages but that David Cameron is just two
sugars sweet. We need some strong characters like Ann Widdecombe or Mo Mowlam."

Might she decide on policy? "Labour have put a lot of money into the NHS. I know
because I've worked in the NHS for 25 years," she said. "But it's just meant
five managers to every two nurses, and everyone spending all their time fiddling
targets. Labour have done nothing for this area except provide us with a load of
bloody sculptures."

Tees Valley Regeneration has recently announced plans to create the biggest art
project in the world, starting in the heart of Middlesbrough with a 110 x 50m
high £2.7m piece by the sculptor Anish Kapoor.

So she might vote Tory then? "Maybe, but the Conservatives sent the four people
in our house four separate letters - all saying the same thing - in four
envelopes, with four stamps. What a waste of money."

"I don't think I'll vote at all, for the first time in my life," said Abbi's
grandma, Freda Gibson. "I've got no faith in any of them."

"I'm not voting," said the black-clad 20-something lad who had served the
coffee, wiping down the counter as closing time approached, and fetching out a
guitar case ready for this progress to somewhere he would rather be. ". There's
no point, nothing ever changes. I don't care who gets in so long as it isn't the
BNP."

Not much chance of that, said Kathleen Wilkinson. "It's quite multicultural,
Middlesbrough. All the taxi drivers are Asians and they're are very nice, and
reliable. You feel safe in the car with them." Indeed, it seems immigration is
less of an issue in the town than in any other constituency I've visited. "We
have no black-on-black gang violence here," one local policeman told me, "and no
Islamic extremism. Asians are well-accepted here now."

The only anti-immigrant remarks I heard were not disguised anti-black remarks
but were directed against eastern Europeans. "A lot of them are work-shy
benefits-scroungers," a man in a pub casually remarked, "but the Asians are
hardworking members of the community."

So what do Middlesbrough's political class make of all this? Down at the
Conservative Club in Orchard Road I met up with an old friend, John Tate - the
only one of my close circle to have returned to the Boro after university. He
works in the legal department at the town council now.

Over a pint of Worthington, I indulged in a middle-aged lament about the
conspicuous apathy off the town's youngsters and recalled the mock election we
had had at school. "Yes, but in those days the parties had distinct policies,"
he said. "Now there's not a huge difference between them."

It was a frank admission for a stalwart of the Conservative club, as was his
father before him. But my old friend's candour did not stop there. "The closure
of Corus has generated huge resentment here. Everyone has said 'If they can save
the banks why can't they save the steelworks?' In my view they should have let
one of the big banks fail. But no-one thinks a Conservative government would
have acted differently. There's general feeling that this town has been cast off
- ever since the early Thatcher years."

Would that translate into votes? "Only a bit. Both parties are standing on a
programme of cuts. Both are trying to sell themselves on competence - saying
they can run the country best. People are suspicious of David Cameron and George
Osborne has not made much of an impression. Their policy of raising the
threshold on inheritance tax to £1m isn't a vote-winner round here. Indeed
voters in most constituencies won't benefit; the average national house price is
£160,000. "It'll be a closer election than many people think. The longer the
campaign goes on the harder it'll get for the Conservatives who are running out
of steam already. And the NHS is reasonably good round here; we even have NHS
dentists in this town. Labour gets credit for that. But people don't think much
of Brown or Cameron on the economy. Round here people still have the
old-fashioned view that we can't survive as a nation by just selling things to
one another. Someone has to make something."

Manufacturing was the mainstay of the Middlesbrough economy in the past. We were
brought up on stories of how Gladstone had described Middlesbrough as "an infant
Hercules in England's enterprise". As schoolboys we were proud of the fact that
many of the world's greatest structures - like the Sydney Harbour Bridge - had
'Made in Middlesbrough' boldly stamped upon them. Erimus (we shall be) was the
town's motto but today there is an air of fatalism around as if many people
believe the Latin tag should be declined not in the future tense but in the
imperfect, eramus (we were). Over the road in the bar of the Middlesbrough
Little Theatre club they have no truck with such counsels of despair. Andy
McDonald is at a table with Barry Coppinger, a Labour councillor and member of
the council's executive committee. Andy is the younger brother of another old
friend whom I once dragooned to play keyboards for a punk band in which I played
in a more gilded era. He is now a solicitor and the chair of Middlesbrough
Labour Party's local government committee.

The two men are robust in their defence of Labour's record. "Barry, who used to
work for British Steel, drove the three local MPs up to see Gordon Brown at his
constituency home," Andy said. "And European Global Adjustment Fund money
offered to Corus to keep the steel works open," he added, pointing out that
world demand for steel is expected to have risen to 2008 levels by the end of
the year which would have seen the Indian-owned steel firm in line to post a
profit of more than $500m (£325m) in 2010/11. "But they turned it down."

The problem for Labour, they feel, is that people locally are more down-beat
than the facts warrant. "Gordon Brown was the right man to have at the helm in
the global financial crisis," said Barry Coppinger. "If he hadn't intervened the
entire ATM Link system would have gone down and there would have been queues
outside every bank like there were outside Northern Rock."

Though nearly 100,000 manufacturing jobs have gone since 1971 they have been
replaced by the same amount in service industries. "Labour have spent a lot of
money in this area," said Andy McDonald. "There are 12 Sure Start nursery
schemes in Middlesbrough alone. And there's a lot of positive thinking going on
still."

The Chemical and manufacturing sectors are well co-ordinated on Teesside - still
the largest integrated manufacturing complex in the UK - encompassing as well as
steel, petrochemicals, oil and gas and the port.

"New industries in biomass, carbon capture and advance engineering will be able
to use the infrastructure of the old industries and many of the skills from the
steel industry will be transferable with some retraining," said Barry.
"Two-thirds of Middlesbrough's wards may be classed as deprived in national
indices but there is tremendous community spirit and there's huge potential for
things to get better."

Whether they can get that across to the voters is another matter. In one sense,
it's of little consequence. The Labour majority at the last election was 12,567.
It would take an unthinkable number of defections to overturn that. John Tate
shrugs at the idea. "The Tories can win without taking places like this," he
said.

On the way home I called at McCoy's restaurant at the Tontine. Barbara McCoy was
there - 50 years back, Barbara Connelly, whose dad stood unsuccessfully for the
Middlesbrough West seat in 1962.

She is remarkably unchanged. Her father Bernard is now aged nearly 88. "The NHS
is the big issue for me," she said. "It has been great. So have the carers Mum
and Dad have in every day. I couldn't fault it. They are determined to do
everything they can to allow older people to remain in their own homes as long
as is possible, and that's brilliant."

So would it be safe in the hands of David Cameron, with his pledge to preserve
health services from cuts? "I think it would," Barbara said. "I don't feel
things would change under the Tories."

The economy is the other big issue for her. Business is up and down, even for a
place like McCoys which is a former Egon Ronay Restaurant of the Year. Business
entertaining is down but private customers are still out and about in
half-decent numbers. "A lot of the people we get in here are Labour people," she
said. "But no-one has a good word to say about Gordon Brown. And a lot of the
Conservatives don't think that David Cameron is up to the job. A lot of them say
they are not going to vote and I think they mean it."

If they do, then expect a low poll in the Labour heartlands. As I left I fell
into conversation with a couple of women enjoying the exemplary fish pie in
McCoy's bistro.

It might end up in a hung parliament, said one, "which wouldn't be a bad thing."
Her companion harrumphed: "So long as they hang the lot of them!"

Middlesbrough

Result in 2005

* Labour: Stuart Bell, 18,562, 57.8 per cent

* Liberal Democrat: Joe Michna, 5,995, 18.7 per cent

* Conservative: Caroline Flynn-Macleod, 5,263, 16.4 per cent

* BNP: Ron Armes, 819, 2.5 per cent

* UKIP: Michael Landers, 768, 2.4 per cent

* Ind: Jackie Elder, 503, 1.6 per cent

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              211 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 13, 2010 Tuesday 2:54 PM GMT

UKIP are lucky that no one takes them seriously

BYLINE: By Cristina Odone

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 460 words


The launch of the UKIP manifesto was somewhere between the student union and the
saloon bar. An air of jocular unreality hangs about UKIP - you can tell from the
way the political hacks pitched their questions this morning that they can't
take the party too seriously. And you can see why: Lord Pearson, the party
leader, blasted the EU as a "dangerous and misguided project" but then
acknowledged that Britain should follow the example of France and Belgium (last
time I looked, both were in the EU) when it came to banning the Burka from
public buildings. Nigel Farage, flexing his muscles to take on John Bercow, the
Speaker, in Buckingham, alluded to Bercow's strange political journey -
conveniently ignoring his own colourful journey from Thatcherite to founding
member of UKIP (and a 2004 visit to a lap-dancing barduring the French
presidential campaign, and a 2006 incident when a Latvian woman claimed the two
had a night of unbridled passion - NB: he said the story was entirely made up by
the woman).

The problem with the joshing is that it lets off this party from serious
scrutiny just as Lord Pearson is happy to let off Paul Wiffen despite his recent
tirade against Muslims, Africans and Romanian gypsies. Wiffen's despicable
comments, claims M'Lord, "were less than wholly polite", but apparently he
should still be allowed to stand as UKIP candidate in Ilford South. Someone
among the hard-bitten hacks should have jeered and booed the condoning of racist
behaviour. But it is symptomatic of UKIP's role in our national politics that
they are allowed to dodge all responsibility for comments and actions: Pearson
and especially Farage have perfected an act of phoney bonhomiethat makes any
serious investigation of their party as improbable as putting Sir Tufton Bufton
under the microscope. (I should say that I once shared a BBC taxi with Farage:
he was charming, self-deprecating and thoroughly good company.)

And what of the manifesto? Predictably, it groans with populist pledges: Britain
out of Europe of course, but also a freeze, over five years, of permanent
immigration, council tax slashed by 40 percent, a flat tax at 30 percent. All
this plus power to the people in the shape of local control of everything from
the police to the schools.

Sounds good. Until you ask two questions: where will the money come from to
implement half these policies? And more important, how can we hold our head high
if we elect representatives who say all Muslims are out to kill us and all
Africans are guilty of selling their brothers into slavery? The idea of pulling
out of the EU is one thing; but with UKIP at the helm we will be pulling out of
a culture that prizes tolerance and mutual respect. No amount of boozy bonhomie,
Mr Farage, can hide that.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              212 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

THE STORIES THE SPIN DOCTORS DON'T WANT YOU TO READ

LENGTH: 941 words


ANDREW PIERCE

WHY'S MANDY BACKING THE HISTORY MAN?

THE ONCE feared political operator Lord Mandelson -- whose strategy backfired
spectacularly when he attacked business leaders who opposed Labour's hike in
national insurance -- has blundered again.

Mandelson engineered the selection of his friend, the TV historian Tristram
Hunt, in the safe seat of Stoke Central. Hunt -- like the rest of the
shortlisted candidates imposed by the Labour leadership -- has no connections to
the area. He was, in fact, educated in London's salubrious Hampstead area (where
else!).

Locals in Stoke are furious -- so much so that Gary Elsby, the former
constituency Party secretary, is not just running against Hunt. He has changed
his name by deed poll to 'Gary local Labour born in Stoke Elsby'.

And veteran Labour activist Mick Williams -- who was given an award in 2008 to
'honour a lifetime commitment to Labour' -- has resigned in a personal email to
Gordon Brown. He is also rubbing salt in the wound by standing against Labour in
council elections.

The celebrated cartoonist Martin Rowson, writing in Tribune, reveals the first
time he met Hunt at the Labour conference in autumn of 1997. It seems Hunt
adored Mandy even then.

Rowson remembers: 'A patrician youth was galumphing round the venue, telling
anyone who couldn't escape: "Peter Mandelson is the most important *******
minister in this

******* government!'"

Mandy was then a mere Minister without Portfolio, so Rowson replied: 'What about
Gordon Brown? What about Derry Irvine [the then Lord Chancellor]?'

To which he reports Hunt saying: 'Who the **** is Derry Irvine? And who the ****
are you anyway?'

When Rowson revealed his identity, he says 'the youth sneered: "So who the ****
is Martin Rowson?" '

Rowson, having spotted Hunt's name on his security pass, replied: 'Ah. Tristram!
Now there's a name that rings down the annals of Labour history! A name to stand
equal with Nye or Clem.'

Ironically, the retiring Stoke Central MP, Mark Fisher, is an Old Etonian -- but
he at least had local connections.

So with the BNP breathing down Labour's neck in Stoke Central, will Hunt --
whose books include the page turner, The Frock-Coated Communist: The
Revolutionary Life Of Friedrich Engels -- invite Mandy to campaign for him?

THEY SHOULD ALL BE RELEGATED . . .

'IT'S clearly second division today -- that's why we're allowed to do this,'
read the plaintive note from Yvette Cooper to her Cabinet colleague Liam Byrne,
who were both onstage at Labour's weekend press conference. Her written
comments, picked up by the cameras, reflect a tension at the heart of Labour's
campaign.

Many of the Cabinet fear it is being monopolised by Lord Mandelson. Yvette's
message doesn't say much for Ed Balls, the Schools Secretary, who was also on
the conference platform at the time. Not only is he a frontrunner to be next
Labour leader, he is also married to Miss Cooper.

WE'VE ALL STOPPED BELIEVIN'

WHEN Tony Blair was running for Prime Minister, D:Ream's Things Can Only Get
Better was Labour's election theme song.

So Gordon Brown ordered his advisers to trawl the archives to find a suitable
anthem for him. They came up with the 1970s song Don't Stop Believin' by
Journey, whose lyrics somewhat aptly go: 'Working hard to get my fill, everybody
wants a thrill Payin' anything to roll the dice, just one more time Some will
win, some will lose Some were born to sing the blues Oh, the movie never ends It
goes on and on and on and on Don't stop believin' Hold on to the feelin'
Streetlight people . . .'

Sadly, when Labour asked Sony if they could use it, the response was swift:
'Absolutely not.'

I SPY . . .

BURIED in the Harris poll in Saturday's Daily Mail was the revelation that the
Welsh, by a margin of 89 per cent, agree that immigration is a source of
significant unrest in the community.

Do you think it is English immigration they are objecting to?

NOW, you may think that politicians have already had their noses too deep in the
trough as it is. But the Tories and LibDems had signed up to three election Come
Dine With Me programmes -- which would have seen them taking it in turns to
create culinary feasts, and then being judged by their guests from the rival
political parties.

However, the Labour Party barred its candidates for fear of being seen eating
'gourmet food'. The first dish they would have had to cook? Fish pie.

THE website Twitter is proving particularly perilous for the many MPs who have
been criticised over their expenses. The defending Lib Dem MP for Colchester,
Bob Russell, is the subject of an online spoof of Who Wants To Be A Millionaire?
The opening question: 'When buying a new lampshade table, did Colchester's
Liberal Democrat MP spend: a) 619.99, b) 630.00, c) 649.99, or d) 6249.99?' No
prizes for guessing the right answer.

POSTER BOYS?

THEY may win a prize for neatly summing up the mood of many voters, but Ukip are
not so good when it comes to the practicalities of campaigning.

Callers to the freephone number on the poster receive the automated message:
'Sorry, this mailbox is full.'

SOUNDBITE OF THE DAY

NICK CLEGG'S telephone rang with a breathless aide confirming the Party has
finally secured a celebrity backer. The excitement did not last.

For the LibDems' latest convert is none other than the former pornographic model
Heather Mills -- who confirmed her status as one of Britain's most unpopular
women with her acrimonious divorce from Sir Paul McCartney.

Heather declares: 'Many people love the Lib Dems but think what's the point? But
if they all voted they would make a difference.'

Alas, the publicity-hungry Miss Mills is unlikely to be asked to join Clegg on a
walkabout.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              213 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

Front: Campaign 2010: Are we having fun yet? 24 days to go: Tom Meltzer's
election diary

BYLINE: Tom Meltzer

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 579 words


Careers guidance

Post-election job ideas

UKIP leader Lord Pearson irritated and delighted the diary in equal measure
yesterday with a tirade against the EU couched almost entirely in children's
storytime metaphors. Not only did he describe Britain's spending on Europe as
"squandered squillions", an alliterative touch worthy of Dr Seuss himself, but
he went on to refer to Brussels as a "corrupt octopus", which cheerfully implies
the existence of octopi who are scrupulously incorruptible. Surely he'd do more
for this nation, enmeshed in the tentacles of a sea monster though it may be, as
a children's novelist?

Floreat Etona

The Mysterious Moggs

He is probably most famous for canvassing from the window of his Bentley, and
perhaps that's why Tory candidate Jacob Rees-Mogg appears to have gone missing.
The diary rang his office a week ago to be told he would ring us as soon as he
came in. We're still waiting. It's almost as if the Conservatives are hiding him
deliberately. Meanwhile Jacob's sister, Annunziata Rees-Mogg, has dispelled any
notion that she and her brother are throwbacks with her own Facebook page. The
only hitch being she has listed herself not as a politician, or even a person,
but as a local business.

Gaffe watch

Low notes

Yvette Cooper was clearly unimpressed with the turnout at the Saturday morning
press conference in which she and husband Ed Balls spoke out against
Conservative plans for marriage incentives. She scribbled a note to the chief
cecretary to the treasury, Liam Byrne, saying: "It's clearly second division
today - presumably that's why we are allowed to do this?" He wrote back: "Sort
of like being allowed to play in the sandpit." Unfortunately, one of the cameras
zoomed in on the note as Copper left. It seems even the big girls can still have
an accident in the sandpit.

Snog, Marry, Elect

Pulling data

Neil Kinnock put it tactfully when he said yesterday, "Gordon has got a radio
face," and it seems that the nation's young women agree with him. A "Snog,
Marry, Avoid" survey of women on lower incomes aged 24-35 (a group known as the
Lambrini Ladies) showed that just 3% would be happy to snog him and just 8% to
marry him, with the other 89% choosing uniformly to avoid him. Just as
predictably, 17% said they'd be happy to snog the Liberal Democrat leader, while
16% could see themselves happily married to nuclear family man David Cameron.

Sleeve watch

White T-shirt man

Cameron goes even further than last week's above-the-elbow roll-ups with a white
t-shirt for his four-mile charity walk yesterday. Our in-house sleeve experts
explain: "If current trends continue he'll turn up to the debates in a vest and,
if elected, govern topless."

Number crunching

1,242

The number of laws that enable "state snoopers" and "clipboard inspectors" to
enter people's homes without permission, according to the Conservatives
yesterday. These include powers to enter when looking for unregulated
hypnotists, rabbits, bovine semen, forged stamps, German property and dancing
bears without permits.

Quote of the day

'I am who I am. I'm very comfortable in my own skin. I'm not going to change or
try to alter my personality. It's a bit too late for that now.'

Picture of the day

Nick Clegg stages an elaborate metaphor for the leaders' debates, in which Brown
and Cameron are children charging at each other across a muddy rugby pitch,
while Clegg is a fully-grown man standing awkwardly in the middle and being
totally ignored. Photograph: Chris Radburn

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              214 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

Are we having fun yet? 24 days to go: Tom Meltzer's election diary

BYLINE: Tom Meltzerguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 590 words

ABSTRACT

David Cameron's new image: white T-shirt man

FULL TEXT

Careers guidance: post-election job ideas

Ukip leader Lord Pearson irritated and delighted the diary in equal measure
yesterday with a tirade against the EU couched almost entirely in children's
storytime metaphors. Not only did he describe Britain's spending on Europe as
"squandered squillions", an alliterative touch worthy of Dr Seuss himself, but
he went on to refer to Brussels as a "corrupt octopus", which cheerfully implies
the existence of octopi who are scrupulously incorruptible. Surely he'd do more
for this nation, enmeshed in the tentacles of a sea monster though it may be, as
a children's novelist?

Floreat Etona: the mysterious Moggs

He is probably most famous for canvassing from the window of his Bentley, and
perhaps that's why Tory candidate Jacob Rees-Mogg appears to have gone missing.
The diary rang his office a week ago to be told he would ring us as soon as he
came in. We're still waiting. It's almost as if the Conservatives are hiding him
deliberately. Meanwhile Jacob's sister, Annunziata Rees-Mogg, has dispelled any
notion that she and her brother are throwbacks with her own Facebook page. The
only hitch being she has listed herself not as a politician, or even a person,
but as a local business.

Picture of the day (above)

Nick Clegg stages an elaborate metaphor for the leaders' debates, in which Brown
and Cameron are children charging at each other across a muddy rugby pitch,
while Clegg is a fully-grown man standing awkwardly in the middle and being
totally ignored.

Gaffe watch: low notes

Yvette Cooper was clearly unimpressed with the turnout at the Saturday morning
press conference in which she and husband Ed Balls spoke out against
Conservative plans for marriage incentives. She scribbled a note to the chief
secretary to the Treasury, Liam Byrne, saying: "It's clearly second division
today - presumably that's why we are allowed to do this?" He wrote back: "Sort
of like being allowed to play in the sandpit." Unfortunately, one of the cameras
zoomed in on the note as Copper left. It seems even the big girls can still have
an accident in the sandpit.

Snog, Marry, Elect: pulling data

Neil Kinnock put it tactfully when he said yesterday, "Gordon has got a radio
face," and it seems that the nation's young women agree with him. A "Snog,
Marry, Avoid" survey of women on lower incomes aged 24-35 (a group known as the
Lambrini Ladies) showed that just 3% would be happy to snog him and just 8% to
marry him, with the other 89% choosing uniformly to avoid him. Just as
predictably, 17% said they'd be happy to snog the Liberal Democrat leader, while
16% could see themselves happily married to nuclear family man David Cameron.

Sleeve watch: white T-shirt man

Cameron goes even further than last week's above-the-elbow roll-ups with a white
T-shirt for his four-mile charity walk yesterday. Our in-house sleeve experts
explain: "If current trends continue he'll turn up to the debates in a vest and,
if elected, govern topless."

Quote of the day

"I am who I am. I'm very comfortable in my own skin. I'm not going to change or
try to alter my personality. It's a bit too late for that now"

Nick Clegg

Number crunching

1,242

The number of laws that enable "state snoopers" and "clipboard inspectors" to
enter people's homes without permission, according to the Conservatives
yesterday. These include powers to enter when looking for unregulated
hypnotists, rabbits, bovine semen, forged stamps, German property and dancing
bears without permits.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              215 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

Photographer Simon Roberts puts political England in the frame

BYLINE: Sean O'Haganguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1024 words

ABSTRACT

Sean O'Hagan: Simon Roberts has invited the public to turn their cameras on an
England gearing up for the 2010 general election. Already, the results are
jaw-dropping

FULL TEXT

Back in March, the House of Commons . It is the first time a photographer has
been selected for the post and one senses that the  of his most recent book, ,
probably swung it for him. For that project, Roberts travelled around England in
a motorhome between August 2007 and September 2008. His plan was , pursuing
their pastimes and hobbies, and uncover a sense of place in the process -
perhaps even a national identity that survives even in these fractured and
uncertain times. In this, he was successful. The photographs that make up We
English, all taken on a large 5x4 camera, have a cumulative power that is both
charming and slightly odd - quintessentially English, in fact.Now, Roberts is
turning that same camera on a country gearing up for what looks likely to be the
most closely contested election in decades. He will, he says, be concentrating
on the "relationship between the politicians canvassing and the voting public
with images from battle-buses and village greens to polling stations and
shopping centres". His images will be exhibited in the House of Commons this
summer. Alongside them will be a gallery of photographs taken by members of the
public. This is the first election in which candidates' interaction with the
public will be monitored relentlessly on Facebook, Twitter, YouTube and Flickr,
and where the power of the blogosphere, as well as the traditional media, will
help determine the result. Roberts has therefore invited people to participate
in what he calls  by sending their own mobile-phone or digital-camera images .
The aim, he says, is to "create an alternative photographic vision alongside my
own" - one that will "add a collaborative and democratic dimension to the
overall work".Thus far, barely a week into campaigning, the results have been
intriguing, and the Election Project looks as if it might turn into a kind of
contemporary  experiment for the digital age, albeit without all the analysis
the original project brought to bear on the nation from 1937 to the early 1950s.
The founders of Mass Observation called it an "anthropology of ourselves"; the
Election Project is more a glimpse of Britain at a time when the political
parties will try their best to break the spell of torpor and disengagement that
has settled over the nation.

Unsurprisingly, there are , addressing meetings of the faithful, and engaging -
if that's the right word - with often-reluctant members of the public. Several
contributors have focused on campaign posters that have appeared all over
Britain in the past week or so: David Cameron as Kitchener, and Gordon Brown as,
well, Brown: reliable, steely, inscrutable. In Hackney, Banksy's old turf,
Russell Higgs has captured the work of an unknown political prankster who has
featuring Cameron's face above the words "suck my goldman sachs". Priceless.

Another recurring theme is campaigning junk mail, whether poking through
letterboxes or filling rubbish bins. Mill Hill Mike has posted photographs of
bins around his north London neighbourhood, all stuffed with Tory campaign
flyers. One or two contributors have opted for the conceptual approach: Matthew
Wealt has posted a black-and-white image of a man, possibly himself, with his
jumper pulled over his head as if to say: "I've already had enough." Thomas
Kuppler has photographed a Cadbury's Creme Egg demolished by a hammer. M Clark
has submitted a series on vacant shops in Bradford city centre.

Another interventionist artist, Rebecca Head, has posted a picture of a kid's
blackboard in an Ikea store, on which she has chalked "Vote Labour". Bill
Scanlon has "had some fun with a 3D camera outside the Houses of Parliament
making William Hague, Peter Mandelson and Jack Straw look blurred and unfocused.
I think there's a metaphor in there somewhere."Amid the humour - and simmering
anger - a definable English eccentricity still seems to be the order of the day.
Where else would you find a Del Boy lookalike on the campaign trail? (He's
wandering around Barking and Dagenham on behalf of Ukip, and S Anderson has
caught him sharing a joke with some Sikh shopkeepers.) Where else, too, would
you find a photograph of a street named Crooked Usage? It's in Finchley. Local
resident Julia Hines has posted the street sign with the caption: "Expenses are
still a big topic on our street."

There are loads of mundane photographs too, mind, but even more than the
arresting ones, they may reveal much about the nature of this election to social
historians of the future. One of my favourites, posted by Picturelife, shows
Margaret Hodge's constituency headquarters in Barking. It's a small detached
house with a red door surrounded by tall blue railings. In an upstairs window, a
handmade sign reads "Save King George". In the front yard, there is an upturned
chair that looks as if it has been flung over the railings. A pair of garden
gnomes, bottom right, seem to be discussing how it got there. I suspect the
would approve.

It will be interesting to see how the images shift in tone as the election
changes gear and the mood of parties, candidates and the public hardens. Even at
this early stage, though, one senses that Roberts may have his work cut out to
match all this everyday British oddness.

Now see this

's photographs of ordinary, everyday subject matter are so quiet and understated
that they can seem almost mundane. His series, , is on display at Charleston
House, East Sussex until 13 June 2010. It explores his fascination with the
small rituals of domestic life, zooming in on the corner of his kitchen where
scraps of food are collected each day. Low key, but oddly poetic.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              216 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

General election 2010: David Cameron has yet to seal the deal, poll finds

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 751 words

ABSTRACT

ICM/Guardian opinion poll shows Conservatives ahead by six points - but with
support as low as at any point for two years

FULL TEXT

The Conservatives have failed to press home their apparent advantage in the
first week of election campaigning, according to a Guardian/ICM poll today that
puts the Tory lead over Labour at just six points.

Although David Cameron is judged to have the best policies on tax after a week
dominated by his party's national insurance plans, that perception does not
appear to be translating into votes, with support for the Tories is as low as at
any point in the last two years.

On the eve of the Conservatives' manifesto launch, the poll shows neither main
party has broken through decisively. The Tories are on 37%, unchanged on a
Guardian/ICM poll carried out a week ago but down one point on a more recent ICM
poll last weekend. Labour, on 31%, is down two points on the last Guardian poll
and up one point on the more recent survey.

On a strictly uniform national swing, that could leave Labour the largest party
in the Commons, although an ICM poll at the weekend suggested the Conservatives
were performing better than average in marginal seats.

Meanwhile, the Liberal Democrats sustain their relatively strong position in
many polls, at 20%, one point lower than in the last two ICM polls. Support for
other parties is 11%, including nationalist parties on 4%, Ukip on 3% and the
Greens on 2%.

Voters expect Cameron to win the election, even though many are unenthusiastic
about the prospect, according to the poll. Asked, regardless of personal
preference, whom they expected to be in No 10 after the election, 58% say
Cameron against only 28% who think Gordon Brown will still be in power.

That attitude underpins responses in today's poll: unhappiness with the
government is still unmatched by strong support for Conservative government.
There is little sign of excitement about the election, either: only 55% of
people say they are certain to vote, up three points on last week.

Most people, 63%, agree with the suggestion that it is time for change, against
only 26% who agree that continuity is important and want to stick with Labour.
But that 37-point advantage is down four points on last month, and is 10 points
lower than in September 2006. The Conservatives have not sealed the deal, even
though a third of people who backed Labour in 2005 now think it is time for
change.

That shift is repeated in the details of today's voting intention poll: while
86% of 2005 Tory voters are sticking with their party, only 71% of 2005 Labour
voters remain loyal. Regional breakdowns suggest Labour is doing well in the
north and Scotland but much less well in the south and particularly in the
Midlands.

The first week of the campaign failed to boost the Tory vote, but most people
seem to think it went David Cameron's way nonetheless. He has an 18-point lead -
40-22 - as the party leader best campaigning for "the votes of people like you".
Even 23% of Labour and Lib Dem voters think this.

He also has a 21-point advantage over Labour as the leader thought to have
campaigned best during the past week. While 66% think Cameron did well overall,
including 62% of Labour voters, only 45% say the same thing about Brown. Among
Labour voters, 70% think Brown did well, but among Conservatives only 35%.

Those responses may not be decisive: for the moment, voters seem inclined to
give all sides the benefit of the doubt. And public attitudes can be
contradictory. Though only 13% think Nick Clegg is reaching out to people like
them, 51% also say he has campaigned well so far - six points more than say the
same of Brown.

The poll, which was carried out before today's Labour manifesto launch, finds
limited enthusiasm for any major party's agenda. The Conservatives have an
11-point lead, 37%-26%, as the party offering the best ideas for the next 10
years, but this closely tracks voting intention. Only 10% of Labour supporters
think the Tories are winning the policy argument.

More broadly, the Tory lead as the party likely to take Britain in the right
direction has grown by two points since last month, to 13 points: 42 to 29%.

Cameron remains ahead as the man most likely to be a competent prime minister:
his lead over Brown is 14 points, 44% to 30%. It was also 14 points in March;
both leaders have gained two points since then.

Only 9% of voters would prefer Nick Clegg. Almost a quarter of people who voted
Labour in 2005 now think Cameron is the most competent leader.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              217 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 12, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

It's Cameron's authenticity that could prove decisive

BYLINE: Bruce Anderson

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 1265 words


The Tories won the first week. On the National Insurance tax, Labour was pinned
on the defensive. As always when this government is under fire, ministers
started lying. We were told that by cutting National Insurance Contributions
(NICS), the Tories would take six billion pounds out of the economy. Really? You
prevent an additional tax on employees and a raid on struggling firms' balance
sheets. This is taking money out of the economy? Such a claim could only be made
by desperate politicians hoping that they are addressing a dumbed-down
electorate.

So Mr Cameron's team enjoyed themselves. But the polls did not move. There are
two explanations for this. The first is that the voters have made up their
minds. The second is that they are still expressing their pre-election
instincts, and that the campaign could change everything. Everyone I have spoken
to who is fighting a seat insists that there are large numbers of don't knows,
many of whom could turn into won't votes.

The political class has always found it hard to interpret the uncertainties of
the sovereign people. This time, the task is no easier, partly because the
populace, quite wrongly, now thinks that it is entitled to despise the
politicians, most of whom have been working hard on their constituents' behalf.
It is also worth remembering that the French won the preliminary battles, before
the final confrontation at Waterloo.

So what is going to happen? We will know a lot more after the first debate on
Thursday. At one stage, the Tories had high hopes of that encounter. Allow the
voters to see Gordon Brown as he really is, and the battle would be won. But the
Prime Minister has survived Andrew Rawnsley's revelations and his Cabinet
colleagues' chronic and serial disloyalty.

We also know that Mr Brown is listening to his advisers. Peter Mandelson is in
charge of prepping him for Thursday evening. The concept of the joke has been
explained to Gordon Brown - so often that he has understood it, and the
necessity to tell a couple. He is even ready to be self-deprecating. There is no
indignity that this man will not endure to give himself a chance of winning. He
may be a sociopath. He is not stupid.

This worries the Tories. At present, David Cameron's lead over Gordon Brown is
much larger than the Tories' lead over Labour. Even if the PM has not thrown a
mobile phone at them, most people have taken his measure. But suppose the
debates allow him to come across as a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief,
an awkward character, but real, in a way that a young public-school boy never
could be? Might Mr Brown begin to throw off his negatives?

In their entire electoral strategy, the Tories have taken a risk. Modern Toryism
is a coalition between hope and anger. Go round the Tory think-tanks, and you
will find lots of bright youngsters determined to solve social problems through
welfare reform and educational reform. In modern British politics, Toryism is
the last refuge of the idealist. The think-tank kids will tell you that Margaret
Thatcher used freedom to create the great economy. David Cameron, Michael Gove
and others will now use freedom to create the Big Society.

These rising hopes of modern and flexible Toryism are sincere in their
commitment to eradicating poverty, moral and financial. In an
uncharacteristically cynical moment, the Conservative historian John Vincent
once said that all the intellectual disputes in contemporary Toryism came down
to the length of the chain that would bind the slaves to the oar. The Tories who
are driving on their parties' social programme would no more endorse that than
they would oppose the Great Reform Bill.

So far, so idealistic: so inspiring. No one who is seriously interested in
solving social problems should dream of voting anything except Conservative. But
idealism has demographic limits. There are a lot of people out there who are
less interested in solving social problems than in keeping them at bay. Mr
Cameron's Tory party has not yet convinced them that it understands their fears
and their anger. Before Waterloo, Wellington almost cocked it up. He came close
to allowing Napoleon to drive a wedge between him and Blucher's Prussians. David
Cameron has come dangerously close to a wedge between anger and hope.

No recent Tory leader would ever have fought an election without leaning heavily
on crime, immigration and Europe. The Cameroons would instantly retort that no
recent Tory leader has fought an election with any prospect of winning it. Even
so, David Cameron has to harness a troublesome coalition. Those whom he has
enthused with his vision of the Big Society have little in common with those who
are still in mourning for the stable society of their younger days.

That is the BNP vote and the UKIP vote. It is also the vote of those who are
giving up on life: people who may think of themselves as Tories, but who are
merely nihilists. But despairing former Tories who either refuse to vote or join
up with the loonies could cost the party a number of marginal seats.

No thoughtful Tory could contemplate the decades since the Second World war
without an occasional irruption of nihilism. There was the loss of Empire, much
of it condemned by independence to corruption and anarchy. There was also
post-war socialism and trade union dominance, locking Britain into low growth
rates and economic stagnation. Then there was unrestricted immigration, abetted
by liberal policies on crime. Finally, there was the attack on old-fashioned
educational values, by left-wingers bent on the cultural humiliation of the
decent majority. It is easy to understand the despair of all those who felt that
their world had been lost.

David Cameron understands those feelings, but only intellectually. This is what
makes him such an exciting and unpredictable Conservative. He is determined to
fuse traditional Toryism with modern Britain. Two years after the 1832 Reform
Bill, when Toryism was easy to caricature as the irrelevant illusions of
reactionary desperadoes, Robert Peel published the Tamworth Manifesto, which
ended the war with Parliamentary reform. Suddenly, Toryism was relevant again.
Seven years later, Peel had a Parliamentary majority.

Tomorrow Mr Cameron publishes his Manifesto. It will not be as dramatic as the
1834 version. But its objectives are similar: a reassertion of British values in
modern circumstances. Mr Cameron will be saying that if anyone believes in
Britain, the family, hard work and common sense, they should vote for him,
irrespective of their class, their creed or their colour. It is a
strongly-argued message and a deeply-felt one.

Will it work? It needs to, for it is the only strong and positive message on
offer at this election. Can anyone who believes in this country seriously
contemplate more years of Gordon Brown? But according to the latest polls,
around one-third of the electorate might actually vote Labour. David Cameron is
still the salesman on the doorstep, trying to persuade an unconvinced
householder.

To seal the business, he will have to find a way of harmonising those disparate
themes. That should not be hard. David Cameron has it in him to compose a
powerful political symphony. He has big music in him. Assuming that he does
become Prime Minister, it will be amusing to watch those who have underrated him
coming gradually to their senses.

Mr Cameron has one further advantage. In order to avoid defeat, Gordon Brown
will have to spend the next 25 days concealing his personality. To win, David
Cameron will have to express his personality. That ought to be the easier task.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              218 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             April 12, 2010 Monday

Britain - Cameron 'ignored party over Europe';
Leader entered in alliance against officials' advice

BYLINE: Paddy McGuffin, Home Affairs Reporter

LENGTH: 376 words


David Cameron entered into a right-wing European alliance with racist,
homophobic and ultra-nationalistic parties against his own party's advice,
senior EU figures said yesterday.

A document drafted by Tory officials in 2007 warned that the party should be
wary of joining forces with the Polish ruling Law and Justice Party due to its
track-record of homophobia, anti-semitism and extreme nationalistic views.

But in 2009 Mr Cameron did just that, splitting from the centre-right EU
grouping to form what many see as an unholy alliance with Law and Justice, the
Czech Civil Democratic Party and Latvian Fatherland and Freedom Party, among
others.

The grouping is headed by Law and Justice MEP Michal Kaminski, who is on record
as making homophobic remarks.

Yesterday the Observer newspaper quoted several senior EU figures who
acknowledged the existence of the document.

Former Polish MEP Jozef Pinior told the paper he had been shown a summary of the
report in 2007. He said its authors advised Mr Cameron not to break away from
the European People's Party - the mainstream centre-right grouping - adding: "It
made clear that it was too politically dangerous."

The former Tory MEP Edward McMillan Scott, who was expelled from the party over
his opposition to the new alliance, said: "I knew the report existed, but I
never saw it.

"I took my party at its word at the time when it said that it would not sign up
with those from the wild fringes of European politics. But I was wrong."

In another damaging blow to the party, it was claimed by Ukip leader Malcolm
Pearson yesterday that one of the Tories' biggest financial backers was "working
from within" the party to try to shift it in a more eurosceptic direction.

The Ukip head said that Henry Angest, who has donated millions to the
Conservatives, was "very disappointed" that Mr Cameron has not offered a
referendum on quitting the European Union.

Mr Pearson said that Mr Angest had also given money to his own eurosceptic think
tank Global Britain, which monitors BBC broadcasts for alleged European bias.

The private bank Arbuthnot Latham, in which Mr Angest holds a majority stake,
lent the Tories £5 million last year and Mr Angest has donated £1.2 million to
party coffers since 2001.

paddym@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              219 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 12, 2010 Monday 10:47 AM GMT

Nutty Ukip says it's a party of 'real people'. Real people should sue

BYLINE: By Cristina Odone

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 445 words


"You Left-wing scum are all the same, wanting to hand our birthright to Romanian
gypsies who beat their wives and children into begging and stealing money they
can gamble with, Muslim nutters who want to kill us and put us all under
medieval Sharia law, the same Africans who sold their Afro-Caribbean brothers
into a slavery that Britain was the first to abolish."

The words are those of Paul Wiffen, Ukip candidate for Ilford South and chair of
the London region of Ukip. As the Telegraph reports, Wiffen was posting on
"Outside Left", the Community Care blog. He said he was defending Ukip from
accusations of racism made in the blog. (If that's the defence, imagine what the
prosecution would say.)

Wiffen apologised for his outburst and has been dropped as chair of the London
region. But his party is very forgiving - especially of racism. So he is still
allowed to campaign for the Ilford South seat, as well for as a ward in the
Redbridge council elections.

As a Ukip spokesman put it, "Ukip is a party of real people, not career
politicians."

Real people should give Ukip a bloody nose for such slander. Ten minutes'
surfing of the web exposes just what kind of supporters Ukip attracts: some
decent people, to be sure, but also an amazing concentration of internet nutters
- and our old friend white van man, shouting expletives behind the wheel as he
careers off the road of mainstream politics.

Wiffin's outraged post exposes seriously scrambled thinking. Africans are blamed
for what some of their distant ancestors did - and there's an implication that
Muslims in general are busy laying down Sharia law which will cut off thieving
hands in the middle of Bradford.

Apologists for multiculturalism can come out with some pretty desperate diktats.
I remember administrators on the board of the Museum of Childhood moving to ban
a Christmas tree from the site: it could, you know, upset their Muslim
visitors.But Ukip makes even multiculturalists look good.

That Wiffen came out with his ugly remarks tells you something about the people
attracted to this party; but for Ukip not to dump him for the slurs means the
party is stupid as well as unpleasant.

You can't expect voters to believe in your non-racist credentials if you condone
the Wiffens of this world. The majority of Britons may feel Ukip has a point
about our no-holds-barred immigration policy, but they don't think Africans
today are the "same" as those who sold their brethren into slavery. It's one
thing to agitate for stricter controls on who comes into this country. It's
quite another to visit on all Africans the sins of some of their forefathers.
Only a really stupid party could fall for that one.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              220 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 12, 2010 Monday 10:05 AM GMT

Tactical voting could make this an interesting election night

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 790 words


Readers of these blogs will know that I have a great regard for the Polish
people.Sadly, history has not been kind to Poland and the tragic aircrash has
robbed Poland of a fine President in Lech Kaczynski and so many other leading
Poles.I can only hope that there are others as good to step into their places.

Sadly, we have not been so richly endowed with leaders in recent years, which is
why not just the opinion polls but the people I meet still suggest a nation
uncertain and disappointed with the debate during this election campaign.

In recent days there has been much talk of tactical voting, which is really no
more than opting for one's second choice if there is little chance of getting
your first. Naturally this appeals most of all to that second-class, second
choice party, the Lib Dems.

The other day, the normally quite rational and rather unpartisanTransport
Minister, Lord Adonis, urged Lib Dem voters in seats where their party has no
chance of winning to vote Labour to keep the Tories out.If Lib Dems in the
marginal seats follow his advice Gordon Brown could hang on to office.

It would be even worse for the Tories if Labour voters in the West Country in
particular followed the logic of the advice from Lord Adonis, and voted Lib Dem
in seats in which Mr Clegg's party is a close second to the Tories.

This is a tactic which seems to have the support of Gordon Brown, who has said:
"If people don't want a Conservative Government then they must make sure they
don't let the Conservatives in."

The corollary to that is: "If you dont want to see Mr Brown back as Prime
Minister you must make sure you get Labour out."

UKIP leader Lord Pearson has taken tactical voting seriously.His objective is to
get into the House of Commons as many Members committed to getting Britain out
of the EU as possible.To that end he has withdrawn someUKIP candidates whose
intervention might have caused the defeat of sitting Members of that view and,
if I judge him rightly, he would be happy if in those seats UKIP campaigned for
the members concerned. It is a rather rare example of a party leader putting
principle ahead of personal or partisan advantage. In short, I share the view of
'ludensian' that Malcolm Pearson is a rather good egg.

The question now is whether in other constituencies UKIP will benefit from
tactical voting by electors whose usual party candidate is either a Eurofanatic
or who is unlikely to have a chance of winning. If they did, it would be a huge
boost for UKIP.

Pearson's comment that a win for Cameron would be "certainly the end for this
country" will not have endeared him tothe Conservative Party, nor to a good many
others, as the alternative is a win for Mr Brown who has brought the country to
the brink and given a chance would push it over into disaster.

It will be an interesting election night if large numbers of electors turn out
to vote, not for what they most want, butagainst what they most fear and
dislike, or for their second choice of what they would reallylike.

On the other hand I really do not understand what 'coleridge34' is on
about.Surely he can see examples of where greed and self-interest are not the
same. For example, is the greed which propels people to become waddling 20-stone
barrels of lard really self-interest? I think not.As to theBible, speaking in
favour of neither the rich nor the greedy, I think I recollect Christ on the
subject of wise and profitable investment.Indeed 'Tom' answered 'coleridge34'in
very good style.

I am sad that'jason 1984' thinks I am a "modernising fake conservative". Perhaps
the next time I am threatened with expulsion for being one of the nasty old
Thatcherites who usedto win elections he will put in a good word for me.

I am sorry too to have made 'fifty and cynical' angry, but it is, I think,
because he has not understood my point.It is simply that without thePoles,
Czechs and Slovaks whose names are inscribed on The Battle of Britain
Monument,we would have lost that battle and the war.

It was very decent of 'Johnny Rottenborough' and 'Robbydot' to suggest I might
be promoted to the rank of viscount and of 'susiq 17' to nominate me for Prime
Minister. And it was good of 'Johnny Rottenborough' to suggest that I may still
be 'in touch', although he spoiled it by saying I have ruined it by supporting
the Conservative Party.But what else can one do in the face of NuLab?And have no
fear 'locustsand wildhoney', Ihave had no nasty threatening calls.

I can assure 'Steve Lee London' that I do not think that just to be poor is to
be deserving.There are plenty of undeserving poor, but there are plenty of
deserving poor too.

As for robbydot's question "what is the role of government?", I'll come back to
that (and global warming)before long.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              221 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 11, 2010
                                 First Edition

The City Diary

SECTION: Pg. 80

LENGTH: 825 words


Has Diamond's business lost its sparkle?

Lord Mandelson may have got his sums wrong when accusing Barclays' Bob Diamond
of being the "unacceptable face" of the banking sector for trousering £63m in
pay (it was a far more thrifty £23m, last year, says the bank). But, whatever
the figure, I'm told Diamond (left) is snubbing his own bank's Barclays Wealth
division. So who's managing the banker's undisputed fortune?

"He has an account with Barclays Wealth," insists Diamond's mouthpiece,
confidently, after spending a few hours considering the question. So how much of
his money is managed there, I ask? "Oh, I've no idea," he stutters, "but he has
an account. Definitely."

Still - maybe Diamond's business isn't as sought-after as you'd think. Barclays'
star player's personal staff seems to be shrinking of late - he even let his
personal chef go when he moved back to the US. "No," says his spokesman
definitively, before softening his stance. "Well, I don't think so. I didn't
even know he had a chef. That's never crossed my desk."

Could Mrs Diamond now be donning the pinny?

What a happy coincidence for Laura at the FSA

Fund manager Gartmore is under scrutiny after suspending its No 2 trader,
Guillaume Rambourg. The move followed consultations with the Financial Services
Authority, although Gartmore insists it's nothing to do with the ongoing
insider-trading investigation in the City.

Anyway, it strikes me that one FSA employee who may be able to help with this
case is Laura Schramm. She joined the regulator in September after previously
spending four years as head of corporate risk at, er, Gartmore. What propitious
timing.

Please, keep talking about Balls and his 'Portillo moment'

The speculation that Ed Balls - wannabe Chancellor/Labour leader - might suffer
a "Portillo moment" by losing his Morley and Outwood seat, should be heartily
encouraged. Balls and his self-regarding MP missus, Yvette Cooper (right), are
among the MPs dogged by recurrent allegations that their expenses were enhanced
by "flipping" the designation of their main home, while it's always worth
retelling how the pair financed their own wedding celebrations at the Cavendish
Hotel, Eastbourne, in 1998. Back then, it was reported that Ed and Yvette
arranged with the venue for an extra £9 to be added to their guests' overnight
hotel bills, thereby saving the newlyweds £2,520 on the cost of the reception.
Charming couple.

Clever old Thurso - he knows our Gordon so well

John Thurso, the Lib Dem's hirsute business spokesman, has recorded a nice
little coup. On the day that Gordon Brown (finally) made it into Number 10, he
placed a £5 bet on the new PM calling the General Election for 6 May, 2010.
Apparently, having read Brown's biography, Thurso correctly guessed that the
rookie First Lord of the Treasury would wait as long as possible before testing
his popularity at the polls - which seems a shrewder piece of work than settling
for the rather stingy odds of 20-1. Anyway, now he's on a winning streak, will
Thurso put his winnings on a Lib Dem victory? A long shot, I'd say.

Will Kate Swann into top job at Royal Mail?

Rumours continue to circulate the City that Kate Swann (right) is to succeed
ITV-bound Adam Crozier as the next boss of Royal Mail. Personally, I wouldn't
bet on it.

Pressman plays his cards close to his chest

More on my favourite film producer, Ed Pressman, the man behind Wall Street and
Thank You for Smoking. He's long had another financial film in the offing, based
on Charles Slack's book Hetty Green: The Genius and Madness of America's First
Female Tycoon. So what's happening? Green - the so-called Witch of Wall Street
(above right) who competed with the Rockefellers and the Vanderbilts, and died,
aged 81, in 1916 - was a noted miser (despite being worth about $35bn in today's
money), and Pressman isn't giving much away either, other than saying that the
project will require period locations and costumes, and that it's attracted the
attention of "a major American actress".

Naturally. But what's taking so long? "The problem is getting the script right,"
he says. "We are going through a new draft now".

Footnote: Pressman's other main projects, Money Never Sleeps and Lies Have Been
Told: An Evening with Robert Maxwell are also taking an age to hit the screen.

Let's drink to pub landlords - and a fair vote

An opinion poll for The Publican trade magazine might reveal more than was
intended. The survey claims that 46 per cent of publicans plan to vote Tory at
the election (no surprise there), 12 per cent will plump for the Lib Dems and
just 2 per cent will stick their cross in the Labour box. But what about the
rest? Thirty one per cent are undecided between the main three parties, leaving
9 per cent who will be voting for some other party.

Far be it for Slackbelly to make sweeping assumptions about the leanings of
British publicans, but might a sizeable chunk be voting for UKIP or the BNP?

postmaster@slackbelly .com

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              222 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 11, 2010
                                 First Edition

So which leader is right about the economy, the Keynesian or his rival?

BYLINE: Chris Watling

SECTION: Pg. 84

LENGTH: 1473 words


So who's right, Gordon Brown or David Cameron? Brown tells us that Tory plans to
forego part of the rise in National Insurance will take £6bn out of the economy,
as it means cuts of the equivalent amount in spending this current fiscal year.
Cameron views the tax rise as a tax on jobs, and therefore a tax on recovery.

Their difference in opinion goes to the heart of economics. If you're a
"Keynesian", as Brown is, then you believe the purported "fragility" of the
recovery means it still needs to be supported by government spending - as such,
reducing that planned spending by £6bn increases the risk of a double dip. If
you're of the opposite view (whether a believer in sound money, Ricardian
equivalence, free markets and so on), then you'd prefer to place the emphasis of
the burden of growth upon the private sector and not on government - as such,
increasing the cost of employment doesn't make sense, as it discourages
private-sector job creation.

So which theory is right?

Fortunately, there are precedents from which we can learn lessons. In Japan, in
1990, two bubbles burst: a stock market bubble and a "real estate and debt"
bubble. The Japanese authorities took a Keynesian approach to dealing with the
aftermath. Interest rates were cut to zero - albeit over five years; banks were
cleaned up and recapitalised, eventually, while successive governments engaged
in successive fiscal stimulus plans - the "do whatever it takes" approach to
ensure the worst effects of economic contraction were avoided.

The result of Japan's Keynesian approach to the bursting of its bubbles has been
two decades of economic stagnation - generally referred to as Japan's "lost
decades". On top of that, Japan hasn't worked off its excess or solved its
problems. Indeed, the debt bubble built up during the boom years in the
corporate sector has simply been passed to the government sector. Corporate debt
at its peak in 1990 was 85 per cent of GDP. It's now fallen to around 50 per
cent. Government debt to GDP, however, has moved in the opposite direction from
50 per cent in 1990 to approximately 200 per cent today. We call it "Pass the
debt parcel". Japan now has the highest government indebtedness problem in the
developed world by far, coupled with an ageing and shrinking population to
support it. This is not a problem solved - it's a problem postponed and arguably
magnified.

At the other end of the spectrum lie the countries involved in the Asian crisis
of 1997-98, most famously South Korea, Hong Kong, Thailand and Indonesia among
others. As in Japan's case, bubbles built up and then burst (primarily related
to over-indebtedness, property and a poorly run financial sector). In these
instances, though, the authorities in each country had little choice over how to
deal with their crises - an international buyers' strike of their debt, and
associated capital flight, meant they had to go cap in hand to the International
Monetary Fund for a loan. The IMF provided the cash but, as always, with
conditions. Interest rates had to be raised to defend the currency, fiscal
policy had to be consolidated and government spending cut aggressively, while
the banking sectors were also cleaned up.

While their downturns at the time were painful and deep, once the excess
capacity created by the bubble was cleared by those recessions, these economies
were returned to good health and have since been growing rapidly for over a
decade (other than two or three quarters at end 2008 and early 2009). Most
importantly, today these economies remain structurally strong with low private
and government debt levels, high savings rates and strong productivity growth.

These precedents provide important lessons for today. Brown's approach mirrors
that of Japan's these past two decades - more fiscal stimulus; do whatever it
takes and ensure, with government spending and artificially low interest rates,
that the worst of the contraction is avoided - thus risking condemning Britain
to our own lost decade. Cameron's approach, while different in some respects,
comes much closer to the Asian crisis model of 1997-98, that is, consolidate
government finances, cut spending and get the Government out of the way of the
private sector.

Indeed, their differing approaches are likely to lead to distinctly different
market reactions to whoever wins power on 6 May. Cameron's approach, if properly
executed, should result in a rally in gilt prices (fall in yields), as fiscal
tightening follows from the first Budget promised within 50 days. With that, we
would anticipate looser monetary policy for longer (the corollary of tighter
fiscal policy) and stability or a mini rally in sterling, as confidence in
Britain returns - sterling is, after all, cheap (with the one caveat that for
that rally in sterling to occur, there must be no more quantitative easing or
hints of QE - printing more than your neighbours creates currency weakness and,
with that, inflation, however much spare capacity exists. To demonstrate the
point, think of Zimbabwe a few years ago - high inflation and high unemployment.

Brown's approach of spend today, consolidate tomorrow will be greeted, if he
wins power or some semblance of power-sharing, with weakness in gilts (rising
yields), for several reasons. First, he has no economic credibility - this is
after all the Chancellor who promised every year since 2002 to balance the
Budget within three years or so, yet has delivered deficits now for nine
consecutive years. Second, Labour, having turned its back on the City, is now
primarily funded by the unions - as such, any attempt to cut government spending
is likely to be challenged by its paymasters. Third, for any government, cutting
the failures among one's own policies is never easy. And fourth, historically,
most major fiscal consolidations that place the burdenon tax rises rather than
spending cuts have been shown to fail. Look at Ireland in the early 1980s, and
Britain in the late 1960s. The reason is simple: raising taxes reduces the
economy's productive growth potential - thus undermining your attempts to grow
out of your problem.

So while there's no easy or pain-free way out of a financial crisis, recent
precedents would support the view that there really is only one free lunch in
economics: productivity driven by innovation that in turn is driven by the
private sector. One of the few principles in economics is that while governments
can support economies in their hour of need, in and of themselves they have no
wealth-creating ability. Within reason, the less government, the better, as that
frees up resources in the rest of the economy with which the private sector can
innovate, drive productivity and create wealth. On this, I'm afraid, Brown is
wrong, Cameron right.

Hamish McRae is away

What we need are tax breaks to help spread jobs across the country

There are certain elephants in the room that politicians from all the mainstream
parties don't seem to want to discuss. Most obviously these include immigration
and Europe, and are the main reason why newer parties, such as UKIP and the BNP,
seem to be gaining traction.

But while many of us love the cultural diversity that comes from immigration, a
radical rethink of policy is required. Six million adults are claiming
out-of-work benefits; 1.6 million on the claimant count (ie the dole); 1.7
million on income support; over half a million on employment and support
allowance; and more than 2 million on incapacity benefits.

That total has remained around the same level for over a decade. But, according
to the latest National Statistics labour-market data, more than a million new
jobs have been filled by immigrants in the past six years alone. It would appear
that the Daily Express had it right last week with its headline: "1.7 million
jobs and 92 per cent go to immigrants". Immigration should be restricted to
genuine political asylum seekers and those who fill skills shortages - so
unnecessary strain is not placed on public services. At the same time,
government policy should be directed towards getting benefit claimants into
work. Indeed, given the heavy reliance of the adult population in the
North-east, Wales and Scotland on benefits and government jobs - 40 per cent of
workers in Wales, 38 per cent in the North-east and 37per cent in Scotland are
employed by the Government, while in all three regions there are more people on
incapacity benefits than are employed in manufacturing - the next government
should consider creating economic zones (ie with company tax breaks) in those
areas. Those would serve to attract manufacturing and other businesses, to start
generating jobs and get the number dependent on government largesse lowered.

It would also lead to a more balanced growth picture across Britain rather than
the current South-east centric growth model.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              223 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday

UKIP CANDIDATE QUITS AFTER PROBE

BYLINE: BY TONY HETHERINGTON THE READERS' CHAMPION

LENGTH: 984 words


PARTY ASKS OUR READERS'CHAMPION FOR DOCUMENTS ON BUSINESSMAN IN LAND SCAMS

W. M. writes: I am now almost 74. In 2006 I was called by a sweet-talking
salesman who offered me the prospect of a 30 to 40 per cent profit by investing
in a plot of land. Over the next three years I bought through him seven plots at
four locations at a total cost of £61,000. The salesman was working for Stephen
Cleeve, who trades under the name Commercial Land. I now realise that I have
bought seven pigs in seven pokes and my recent representations to Commercial
Land have resulted in a vicious response.

COMMERCIAL Land is the name currently used by west London businessman and
would-be MP Stephen James Cleeve, but he used to be in exactly the same line of
business under the name of the European Land Sales Partnership.

And before that he was behind Forrester & Lamego, a company that sold
investments in champagne and port. And before that he was boss of Napier Spirit,
a company that sold whisky as an investment.

And what all these businesses have in common is that there have been serious
complaints about false claims and mis-selling and their customers have ended up
poorer as a result.

Napier was active from the summer of 1995 to the autumn of 1996, and raked in
£3.2 million from investors who were told they would get an 18 per cent return
on their capital by buying whisky in the cask and selling it on when it matured.

By the end of 1996 the scandal had grown so great that the Department of Trade
successfully petitioned the High Court to have the company wound up.

Cleeve has recently been quoted in his local newspaper as saying that he worked
at Napier for only two days and was never a director. All I can say is that I
have documents from Companies House bearing his signature that show he was
appointed a director on July 21, 1995 and resigned on December 2, 1995 ñ the
longest two days in history.

He then set up Forrester & Lamego, which sold champagne with the false claim
that there was going to be a world shortage so buyers would make a profit by
selling it on. The truth was that the only big profit went to Cleeve and his
company, which applied a 272 per cent markup to the champagne and then left
investors to pay the duty and VAT.

Cleeve was also taken to task by the Advertising Standards Authority for using a
picture of top-notch Osborne port to sell his offering of a lower quality. In
1997, the High Court ordered the closure of Forrester & Lamego and the
Department of Trade later won an order banning Cleeve from acting as a director
of any company for eight years. This

why his next venture, the European Land Sales Partnership, was not a limited
company. He and associate John Beckwith-Smith bought a field near Milton Keynes,
Buckinghamshire, for £90,000 and marketed it in house-size plots for a total of
£3 million.

But it is agricultural land that had no planning consent for housing development
and the agent who sold them the field rated its chances of winning consent as
zero. The local council said it had enough land earmarked for housing to keep it
going for at least the next 20 years.

Anyone who bought from Cleeve has ended up with some of the most expensive
blades of grass in the world.

In 2005 Cleeve went on a sales drive to sell British land to Australians and
came a cropper. He was caught using a promotional video that claimed a 90 per
cent success rate in winning planning consent. This was a lie. The true figure
was nil.

Consumer protection officials in the state of Victoria won a court order banning
the video and stopping Cleeve from claiming that he had a record of success, or
that he was even an expert in land deals.

And now Cleeve trades as Commercial Land ñ a new name, but the same old game.

For example, you paid £10,000 for a slice of land at King's Stag, a hamlet in
Dorset. As long ago as 2006 the BBC took a look at this site. Their journalists
posed as investors and were told the local council had given Commercial Land a
letter saying the land was suitable for housing and commercial use.

The truth was that North Dorset District Council wrote a letter saying there was
no chance the site would ever get planning consent.

In a similar scam uncovered by the BBC, Cleeve's firm sold land near Oxford that
will never be built on because it lies on a flood plain.

I invited Cleeve to comment on your letter. His solicitors, an Ipswich firm
called Attwells, replied snootily that all your concerns had been fully answered
in correspondence with your own lawyer.

This was not entirely accurate. Attwells had not explained why Commercial Land's
contracts say it is not responsible for a single word spoken by its salesmen ñ a
disclaimer that goes against the law ñ and it had threatened to sue you and your
solicitors for libel.

On top of this, you knew nothing of Cleeve's background, while I did. I had
warned in print against all of his previous businesses. So I put a few points of
my own to Attwells, suggesting that as there had been alleged misrepresentation
in his earlier firms Cleeve might like to comment now on your own complaint.

Attwells' bizarre response a few days ago described all the earlier episodes as
'extraordinary' or ' unverified'. Nevertheless, I was offered a secret meeting
with Cleeve on condition nothing was ever published. 'Our client has no interest
in giving you a story,' I was told.

Well, the United Kingdom Independence Party was more interested. Last week it
asked for copies of documents I held about Cleeve. I supplied-them and following
a meeting last Tuesday Cleeve ceased to be UKIP's Parliamentary candidate for
Kensington and Chelsea in west London, though his resignation as candidate was
put down to overwork.

I am now in touch with your solicitors and I will give them whatever help I can.
Do not give up. Throwing some good money into a legal fight might get back more
of the bad money that has gone into Cleeve's land deals.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              224 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 11, 2010

MPs' attempt at legally inflicted tedium is worthy of Mussolini

BYLINE: PRESS AND BROADCASTING Peter Preston

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 811 words


It seemed an odd time to choose. There was Gordon Brown heading for the palace
last Tuesday, and here was the Press Complaints Commission suddenly battling
back against a contentious report from the (old, departing) culture, media and
sport select committee. Why ask us to impose swingeing fines on offending
newspapers, asked the commission. Why, above all, hand us the power to stop the
presses themselves as some kind of diktat? No way . . .

How is the "suspension of printing of an offending publication", as suggested by
our elected tribunes, deemed "practicable, proportionate and appropriate in a
democratic society"? "No other analogous body in the civilised world would
employ such a sanction."

Pause over that rebuke, though, because it has wider resonance. The MPs who
monitor the media most closely had suggested that a group of unelected PCC
worthies - the great, the good and a few newspaper editors - should be able, in
certain circumstances, to press a button and stop a magazine or newspaper being
printed because its members disapprove of something written or revealed.
Mussolini would have puffed with pride at the very notion. The freedom of the
press has seldom faced a more insidious blight.

Most years, perhaps, the freedoms enjoyed by broadcasters and print journalists
seem roughly similar. Radio 4 can do satire just as fiercely as Littlejohn.
Paxman or Robinson can sneer or jeer alongside Parris or Oborne. But not now:
not with an election called. Now TV and radio are back to their stately games: a
word from Labour, from the Tories, from Clegg. An obligatory interview with
Ukip, the BNP, the Greens, assorted Nats.

Enter those hallowed BBC producer guidelines, with John Humphrys allowed no more
than three interruptions a minute against Gordon Brown - and Evan Davies under
obvious pressure to interrupt David Cameron more.

This, according to the director general, is the creation of "a strong and
independent space where the big debates can take place". But it's such a bore!
cry voters swarming on to our screens. And much of the tedium is legally
inflicted by the politicians who complain about it most. They tie the
broadcasters' hands, dictate the framework for coverage - and huff and puff when
the electorate yawns. Kennedy versus Nixon in debating heaven? No: Brown,
Cameron and Clegg going through a pastiche of American presidential encounters
according to some portentous rulebook.

At least the press isn't caught in this particular boredom bind. At least the
press can scent an original story and follow it through. At least there's a
freedom - though no obligation - to be partisan, to juggle immigration figures
to Mail content, to turn a few dozen CEOs into Telegraph titans. For that's what
freedom basically involves: the freedom to argue, to champion, to laugh out loud
- even to get things wrong. And we're going to need a lot of this through the
next few weeks.

That select committee report on stopping the presses is laugh-out-loud stuff.
The PCC's put-down is absolutely to the point. But it's the blankness beyond
that should give us pause. Did the MPs realise how ludicrous they'd seem as they
constructed new outrages in need of the right to imposed silence? Did they
understand that freedom mixes rough with smooth? Do they want a press world full
of worried "compliance officers", reaching for blue pencils, pressing delete
buttons?

Here is a sanction that the "civilised world" should gag over; one that America,
clutching its first amendment, would find simply malign. Freedom - in print or
on the internet - is being able to do and think your own thing, untrammelled by
some imposed governmental framework. Take that away and only a wasteland lies
ahead.

The trouble with "fair and balanced", of course, (when covering elections or
much else in life) is that it may not exactly be what the customer ordered. It
sounds like an impeccable Lib Dem aspiration, but it doesn't always cut it when
audiences have a choice.

Take the three big American cable news channels: Fox on the foaming right, MSNBC
on the liberal left, and dear old CNN playing it as straight as possible down
the middle. Then look at viewing figures for CNN's star shows: Anderson Cooper's
audience down 40% in a year, Larry King's beloved chat similarly blighted. This
is a network heading not just for a permanent third place, but right out of the
premiership - and it really isn't too hard to see why.

Politicians want fairness, balance and equal opportunity to attack or defend.
But Joe Public, cold Bud in one hand, TV remote in the other, likes political
meat raw in the privacy of his own front parlour. He doesn't say so out loud, of
course. He couldn't be unfair about fair. But what he says and what he does are
widely, sadly different - by 40% or more.

Captions:

Stopping the presses? An unthinkable suggestion in a democracy, surely? PA


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              225 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 11, 2010

Publicity-shy Conservative donor revealed as paymaster of anti-European
activists: Embarrassment for the Tories as Swiss-born supporter is found to have
given money to a group that wants Britain to leave the EU

BYLINE: Jamie Doward

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 910 words


One of the Tories' biggest financial backers is a publicity-shy Swiss-born
banker who funds a network of obscure eurosceptic groups, including one run by
the leader of the UK Independence party (Ukip), Lord Pearson, who yesterday
warned that a Conservative election victory "would be the end" of Britain.

Little known outside City circles, Henry Angest has funnelled almost £ 7m to the
Tories in loans and donations over the past nine years, according to an Observer
investigation.

But he also backs lesser-known political groups that question scientific claims
for climate change, campaign for the UK's withdrawal from the EU and seek to
further the country's ties with the US radical right. Reportedly worth £ 45m,
the 69-year-old is a trenchant critic of attempts to impose greater regulation
on the City. He is equally scathing about the UK's "punitive tax system",
including the recent levy on bankers' bonuses.

The fact the Tories are being bankrolled to such an extent by a fiercely
eurosceptic City grandee threatens to embarrass David Cameron, who has tried to
cast off his party's image as virulently anti-Brussels, obsessed with tax cuts
and backed by the wealthy.

Last November, Arbuthnot Latham, a private bank in which Angest owns a majority
stake, lent the Tories £ 5m, significantly boosting their election war chest.
The bank also pledged to make a donation to the party, the size of which has yet
to be revealed.

This is in addition to £ 1.2m Angest has given the party since 2001, the
majority since 2007, through an anonymous company, Flowidea, according to
filings with the Electoral Commission. The company supports a number of Tory
MPs, including the shadow foreign secretary, William Hague, and the shadow home
secretary, Chris Grayling.

Angest has previously loaned the Tories £ 500,000 through another company, Wyler
Investments, which has been repaid.

The Observer has established that Flowidea also donates to Global Britain, a
thinktank run by Pearson, which attacks the "project of European union. . . as a
bad idea, like slavery, communism and high-rise flats". In 2008, a year after
Pearson quit the Tories to join Ukip, Flowidea's accounts show it donated £
10,000 to Global Britain. Filings at the Electoral Commission reveal Global
Britain gave £ 80,000 to Ukip in 2009.

The revelation has emerged as the battle between the Tories and Pearson becomes
increasingly bitter. Yesterday Pearson said the prospect of Cameron winning a
working majority in the election "is certainly the end of this country". The
Conservatives responded by saying a vote for Ukip "helps keep Gordon Brown in
place".

But Angest's support for Pearson's anti-Brussels thinktank suggests one of the
Tories' most powerful backers does not share Cameron's belief that Ukip members
are "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists". Pearson yesterday confirmed Angest
had donated money to his thinktank. "Henry is a fine egg," he said. "It's a
shame he's giving money to the wrong party."

In 2006 Flowidea donated £ 2,000 to the Freedom Association, which also has
close links to Ukip and campaigns for the UK's withdrawal from the EU. On its
website, the association carries opinion pieces condemning windfarms and the
Copenhagen summit while attacking climate change "alarmism". The association
boasts a "Freedom Fighters" division, activists who have campaigned for the
BNP's right to speak on campuses on the grounds that free speech is important to
democracy.

The Atlantic Bridge, which received £ 1,000 from Flowidea in 2007, is an
organisation founded by Liam Fox, the Tory defence spokesman, seeking closer
links with the US, particularly on defence. The organisation has been accused of
being a neoconservative front, a claim it denies. Members include George Osborne
and Republican congressmen.

In 2008 Flowidea gave £ 5,000 to Tory donor Stuart Wheeler's campaign to wreck
the Lisbon treaty. Wheeler subsequently donated £ 100,000 to Ukip and has now
established his own Trust party.

As a former master of the Worshipful Company of International Bankers, and a
respected "conservative" figure in the City, Angest has warned against
over-reaction to the banking crisis. "The banking sector will go through
tremendous changes as a result of the market turmoil of recent months - but I
hope the approach will be to think carefully before taking quick action," he
said recently.

He has attacked the introduction of the bank bonus tax as "grossly unfair" for
hitting banks like his own, which managed their finances "prudently" through the
financial crisis, and has argued against greater regulation of the City.

"If we want a thriving economy, we must rein back the dead hand of government,
restrain the consumer lobby and stop the do-gooders wasting our resources," he
said in 2005. A former lawyer, Angest became a UK citizen in 1985. A spokeswoman
declined to comment on whether he was a non-dom - someone who is legitimately
entitled not to pay UK tax on their overseas earnings.

The Lib Dem Treasury spokesman, Lord Oakeshott, suggested that Cameron clarify
Angest's tax position, given his importance to the party. "David Cameron must
stop taking donations in dark glasses," Oakeshott said.

Angest, whose passion is dendrology - the study of the development of trees -
rarely gives interviews. He declined requests from the Observer

The Conservatives declined to comment last night.

Captions:

Banker Henry Angest has given almost £ 7m in loans and donations to the Tories.


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              226 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The women making Brighton rock;
All four candidates from the leading parties battling for a seat beside the
seaside in Brighton are woman - but that does not mean the contest is any less
macho

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 879 words


PICTURE CREDIT ST FOR THE first time in a general election, a constituency will
be fought over by four leading candidates who are all women.

Whichever party wins the marginal seat of Brighton Pavilion - Conservative,
Labour, Liberal Democrat or Green - the MP will be female and in her 40s.

On election night, the constituency could make history twice over if it becomes
the first ever to fall to the Green Party, who are the bookmakers' favourites to
win.

Nancy Platts, a trade unionist defending Labour's 5,000 majority in the seat,
was selected from a women-only shortlist.

Charlotte Vere, a businesswoman, was selected as the Conservative candidate
after beating three men in an open primary.

The Liberal Democrat candidate is Bernadette Millam, a single mother and nurse,
while the Green Party is fielding Caroline Lucas, its leader and an MEP. The
lone male standard-bearer is the Ukip candidate, Nigel Carter.

Local polls have suggested the seat is on a knife-edge, a genuine three-way
marginal where the Tories, Labour or Greens could win.

The dominance of women in the contest does not, however, mean that punches will
be pulled.

In her apartment in an art deco tower block overlooking the sea, Miss Vere has
more maps on her walls than an army general.

Statuesque, blonde and resplendent in big jewellery, the Tory candidate makes a
sweeping gesture at the complex diagrams that cover every inch of her living
room: "Welcome to my world," she laughs before sitting down in front of a coffee
table covered in huge posters of herself.

She sets a glass of tap water down, saying "It's a bit bubbly", which is as good
a way as any to describe her.

Miss Vere has a husband and two children aged nine and six back at the family
home in Kingston upon Thames, but has moved into this flat high above the
Brighton seafront - her war room - for the duration of the campaign.

She claims the seat is a fight between her and Miss Lucas, who had just given a
confident performance in front of an audience at the Brighton deaf centre,
explaining policies of free elderly care, free dental care and more jobs.

The Greens are proposing a £44 billion investment package to create more than a
million jobs in low-carbon industries. This would be paid for with big tax rises
on "high earners", to be spelt out in the Green manifesto next week. Miss Lucas,
who is married with two children, claims she has 35 per cent of the vote.

She says: "Winning here would be the breakthrough we have been waiting for for
so long. People here are fed up with Labour and the Tories."

Miss Vere wastes no time in savaging this: "I'm a little tired of the Greens
saying 'Vote for us because we are going to win.' It's a policy-free victory
they are after. Caroline Lucas has been an MEP for 11 years and she has failed
to publish her expenses fully ... Oh, and that poll that puts them ahead? That
would be the one the Greens paid for, by the way."

She speaks quickly, like a woman in a hurry, which she probably is. She was only
selected in November last year after the previous Tory candidate stood down.

The other contenders have been here for some time. Miss Platts was selected in
2007 after David Lepper, the sitting MP, announced he was standing down and she
has been living in the town with her partner, Steve, ever since. She comes out
of her office in the Unison building to take a stroll around the park.
Slightly-built and softlyspoken, she is a surprising figure to be a former fire
brigade worker and railway trade unionist, but there is obviously steel
underneath.

She says: "I think it's really exciting that this is the first place to have an
all women line-up.

All of us are first-time candidates too. It's about time. It's a good thing for
girls to see four women candidates coming to their schools."

The town has a historic link to the advancement of women in politics: Millicent
Fawcett, the wife of Henry Fawcett who was a Brighton MP in the 1870s, was
instrumental in getting women the vote.

The campaign to return more women to Parliament received its biggest boost in
1997 with the election of 101 female Labour MPs, the "Blair Babes" as they were
dubbed.

That was the result of positive discrimination with women-only shortlists in
many seats.

Since then the number of women in the House of Commons has remained static. Just
under 20 per cent of MPs are women - 94 Labour, 18 Conservative, nine Liberal
Democrat and four others.

Despite attempts by David Cameron to parachute women candidates into safe seats,
research recently concluded that the proportion of women MPs in Parliament is
not going to leap forward greatly next month.

From a current total of 125 female MPs out of 646, the maximum representation
women can expect to find the morning after election day will be just 5 per cent
higher.

While 10 constituencies have all-female line-ups of candidates from the three
main parties, campaigners point out this is a tiny figure compared with the 205
constituencies where the Labour, Conservative and Lib Dem challengers are all
male.

Betfair, the online bookmaker, was last night quoting the Greens as even-money
favourites to win in Brighton Pavilion, with the Conservatives quoted at 9/5,
Labour 9/2, and the Liberal Democrats 60/1.

"It's good for girls to see women candidates at their schools

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JAMES BOARDMAN
The women fighting to win the Brighton Pavilion seat, clockwise from above:
Caroline Lucas (Green), Nancy Platts (Labour); Bernadette Millam (Liberal
Democrat); and Charlotte Vere (Conservative)

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              227 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

TELEGRAPH JURY: READERS REVEAL WHO HAS IMPRESSED THEM - AND THE ISSUES THAT
STAND OUT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 659 words


What issue has made the biggest impact in the campaign? Which politician has
impressed you most so far? Business leaders say the rise in National Insurance
will cost jobs, but the Government says that it is essential to protect public
services. Who is right? MELISSA NEWMAN, 52 Lives: Guildford, Surrey, with her
husband and three children Job: Housewife Last time: Conservative This time:
Probably Conservative National Insurance row Sarah Brown, who I've been
following on Twitter It is hard to tell because both sides swear blind they are
right. I have read that some economists have said the Conservative claims are
correct. Neither side has come out of the debate particularly well. I don't
think the Lib-Dem viewpoint has been reported much.

PETER WOOD, 57 Lives: Edinburgh, with his wife and two daughters Job: Economic
consultant Last time: Conservative This time: Probably Conservative National
Insurance row Gordon Brown It is a much more complicated issue than either side
is suggesting. I thought Gordon Brown did surprisingly well on the Today
programme, and I don't agree with the Tories' suggestion that economic recovery
will be derailed by the NI rise.

RACHEL CLARKE, 39 Lives: Brentford, Middlesex, alone Job: Head of social media
at a digital marketing company Last time: Conservative This time: Conservative/
Lib-Dem Leaders' wives, even though they are irrelevant Tom Watson (Lab) for his
speeches against the Digital Economy Bill Neither. Clearly the country needs to
raise the money and it seems to me that National Insurance is the fairest way of
doing it.

However, cutbacks are something that will also have to happen.

CLIFFORD FORSYTH, 67 Lives: Ruislip, Middlesex, with his wife. Has two grown-up
sons and one granddaughter Job: Retired IT technician Last time: Conservative
This time: Probably Ukip The economy Samantha Cameron - she is supportive of her
husband without being overbearing The Conservatives. I watched Question Time the
other night where David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, was arguing with a
member of the audience - his attitude was typical of Labour, in thinking he knew
better how to spend our money.

DAVID PAGAN, 44 Lives: Solihull, West Midlands, with his wife and two children
Job: Finance manager Last time: Lib-Dem This time: Probably Lib-Dem The economic
recovery Vince Cable, the Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman I think raising
National Insurance is fair. We cannot raise the money just by looking for cuts
here and there, savings will have to be made in a much more comprehensive way.
The extra money will have to come from you, me and everybody.

SHELLY ASQUITH, 19 Lives: Chelmsford, Essex, with her parents Job: Marketing
assistant Last time: Wasn't eligible This time: Labour National Insurance row
Vince Cable I think Labour is right to raise National Insurance to protect
essential services, although it is frustrating that they are defending this
issue rather than talking about their own plans for constitutional reform that
might get them more support.

VILMA McADAM, 66 Lives: Aberdeen, with her husband Job: Retired local government
official Last time: Lib-Dem This time: Probably Lib-Dem Unfortunately the debate
seems limited to the economy Nobody - certainly none of the party leaders has
impressed me at all I do not think a rise in NI is the best way to raise the
money, but I don't agree with the Tories. Although they are saying there would
be no redundancies, failing to replace people who leave will result in more
stress and sick leave among those who are left.

RELVA SPREAD, 30 Lives: Battersea, south London, with friends Job: Graduate
student Last time: Labour This time: Undecided National Insurance row Hugh
Salmon, the local independent candidate It is really hard to say because the
money clearly needs to be raised but it is equally clear that a National
Insurance rise will damage business. I tend to agree slightly more with the
Conservatives when it comes to this issue.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              228 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

On Day One of the campaign, UKIP's [...];
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 69 words


On Day One of the campaign, UKIP's Nigel Farage appeared large as life and twice
as noisy on a repeat of Have I Got News for You. Television - and the BBC
especially - is usually so sensitive to bias that when Clement Freud stood as a
Liberal candidate, he wasn't allowed to continue advertising Minced Morsels dog
food. Is the BBC suggesting that an appearance by Farage would not necessarily
be to UKIP's advantage?

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              229 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Be ready for a shock from the little guys

BYLINE: Colin Rallings; Michael Thrasher

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 647 words


Evidence of voter disillusionment with traditional parliamentary politics can be
seen in the growth of support for smaller parties, write Colin Rallings and
Michael Thrasher. Often lumped together as "others", to indicate their assumed
residual character, they are likely to attract up to one in 10 of all votes cast
on May 6 and could spring some surprises in individual seats.

The 2005 general election featured 1,500 candidates from more than 100 such
parties and groups, who together polled nearly 6% of the vote. Since then their
cause has been boosted by the expenses scandal, with polls in the first three
months of this year showing their average score up three points to 13%, compared
with the same period in 2009. At the 2009 European elections four in 10 voters
eschewed the major parties, resulting in the United Kingdom Independence party
(UKIP), the British National party (BNP) and the Greens each having MEPs
elected.

Similar success at a Westminster election remains unlikely. First, electors are
more likely to plump for a party that they think can form the government, or at
least secure substantial representation in the Commons. At the Euro polls they
are happy to cast a "plague on all your houses" vote, knowing it will have few
consequences for the direction of public policy.

Second, the first-past-the-post electoral system severely disadvantages minority
parties, which need to poll at least 30% of the vote in any given constituency
to have a chance of victory. By contrast, under the list PR (proportional
representation) system used for Europe, Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, was
elected as an MEP for the North West region with 8% of the vote.

Just occasionally candidates from smaller parties can engender sufficient
momentum to come out on top. In 2005 three did so. Richard Taylor, who had first
been elected in Wyre Forest in Worcestershire in 2001 on a ticket of opposing a
local hospital closure, was returned; Peter Law won Blaenau Gwent in Wales as an
independent after a row in the local Labour party; and George Galloway of
Respect defeated Labour's Oona King at Bethnal Green and Bow, east London,
thanks to hostility to the Iraq war among its substantial Asian electorate. Each
of those seats will deserve attention again this time.

Elsewhere, attention will focus on where the current or former leaders of the
three largest minor parties are standing. Caroline Lucas of the Greens needs to
come from third place to win Brighton Pavilion from Labour but nevertheless is
the bookies' favourite. The Greens may also poll enough votes to influence the
outcome, though not win, in seats in university towns such as Norwich, Oxford
and York, where they already have a presence on the council.

Griffin is standing in Barking, east London, against Margaret Hodge, the culture
and tourism minister. He needs a swing of nearly 17% to win and is not expected
to get close. Yet the BNP looks set to poll up to 10% or more of the vote in
parts of northern England and the West Midlands such as Burnley, Dewsbury and
Stoke-on-Trent.

The most successful minor party in terms of seats at the European level is UKIP.
It has struggled to match that success in Westminster contests, though. In 2005
it got just 2.3% of the vote and failed to achieve a 10% share in any single
seat. This time the party is throwing its resources behind Nigel Farage's
attempt to unseat John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons, in
Buckingham. The odds favour the incumbent.

Esther Rantzen's chances in Luton South also look much diminished now Margaret
Moran, the focus of her (and much of the electorate's) ire over the expenses
scandal, has stood down.

General election success for small parties remains very much the exception. But
an unaligned and disillusioned electorate is capable of striking almost without
warning. Prepare for a shock or two in the early hours of May 7.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              230 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Falling under Cleggy's spell

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 117 words


Great news for the Liberal Democrats-they have secured the electoral support of
the "celebrity medium and psychic" Colin Fry. In a statement-and see if you can
spot the paradox contained within-Fry said: "The other parties are all liars and
as a psychic medium I can tell when people are lying." Well, that should swing a
few votes Nick Clegg's way among Britain's vibrant community of mentally
challenged people. Nick also has the support of Harry Potter: the actor Daniel
Radcliffe said that after a "long chat" on the phone with Clegg, he's voting Lib
Dem. I assume that as you read this, Nick is busy dialling up Buzz Lightyear and
Scooby-Doo. Wasting his time with Scooby, though-he's always been UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BEN STANSALL/WATTIE CHUNG

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              231 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Time for change in family politics;
Property

BYLINE: MARK ANSTEAD

SECTION: FEATURES; 90

LENGTH: 867  words


MARK ANSTEAD meets Helen Burrluck, widow of Piers Merchant, who is selling the
house that became a retreat after the former MP was caught having an affair

PHOTOGRAPHED canoodling with 17-yearold campaign researcher Anna Cox in broad
daylight on a park bench in his constituency, Beckenham MP Piers Merchant
complained he had been a victim of a tabloid sting to expose double standards
among Conservatives during the run-up to the 1997 general election. Sound
familiar?

Merchant kept his seat but resigned from Parliament six months later when he was
exposed as having a full-blown affair with the same girl.

Last September he died of cancer at the age of 58 but spent the last summer of
his life surrounded by his family at his home near Torrington, Devon. Now his
loyal wife Helen, 56, has just accepted an offer on their six-bedroomed house
and plans to buy an apartment in London.

"We had many happy years here in Devon, even after everything that happened, "
says Helen, who forgave her husband and stayed by his side throughout the
controversy. Now a legal practice manager in London, she says she took him back
because she had once been unfaithful to him.

Helen says: "Piers was a bloody fool to get close to that woman but he made a
mistake and it would have been hypocritical of me to make a big deal of it, "
she says. "I felt sorry for him. He lost his job and nobody would trust him,
even though he had always been a diligent MP."

THERE IS something very matter-of-fact and unshockable about Helen Burrluck. Now
a single mother to two grown-up children, Thea 26, and Rolf, 18, she clearly
misses Piers.

"The press were awful to him, " she says. "I believe absolutely that the first
incident was a set-up because w ho would be stupid enough to kiss in public on a
park bench? Of course there happened to be a photographer standing by to catch
it all.

"As far as I'm concerned it was only later he started having an affair and that
was his big mistake. He was very confused and wanted to find out why he had been
targeted so he met the girl again, which was very unwise."

After being exposed Piers resigned and the couple bought their house in Devon as
a retreat. Piers had always wanted to retire to the country so after viewing the
late Victorian former gatehouse with four reception rooms set in 10 acres near
Torrington, they snapped it up in 1998 for GBP 275,000.

According to estate agents, Torrington is popular with buyers from the
South-east or Midlands looking for second homes. It is 25 minutes from the north
Devon coast so close enough for sun and sand in the summer but far enough from
busy traffic to enjoy a quiet life.

"If I'd have thought about it I might have pointed out it was a long way from
London, " says Helen.

"The commute became harder to manage as the years went by but I went along with
it at the time because I felt sorry for him. I also liked the house. It has a
lot of character and we used to come down every other week and all our family
holidays were spent here."

Helen still visits the house at weekends and points out that it has an old
miniature railway, which was closed to the public before the couple bought it,
but the track still runs in a mile-long loop through the grounds.

After his resignation Piers worked for London Chamber of Commerce while Helen,
who had previously supported him part-time in his parliament office, took a job
as a Then, in 2003, just as their son Rolf came up to secondary school age, the
couple had to deal w ith the revelation of another affair.

Piers had started a relationship with property consultant Caroline Bew, 12 years
his junior.

A fter it was revealed he moved down to the house in Devon.

Helen took a job as a legal practice manager in Bury St Edmunds then moved to a
London firm two years ago near the couple's apartment in Pimlico. Piers began
working with the UK Independence Party, later becoming its chief executive, and
most of the time was able to fulfil his duties from home.

"At no point did we separate, " insists Helen.

"We were only living separately during the week for convenience, like a lot of
people do. We were together at the weekends. We sold our home in Beckenham,
Kent, for about GBP 400,000 and I travelled to Devon on Friday nights.

"I used up all my annual leave taking Mondays off to travel back, which is one
big reason why I have no need to hold on to the house now."

In November 2008 Piers went to see a doctor about his back pain. Then, in June
last year, he was diagnosed with advanced cancer. Told he only had months to
live, he died in September.

"I still miss his sense of humour terribly, " says Helen. "Piers was always so
incredibly positive and although we used to spend our weekdays apart we were
always on the phone to each other at least two or three times a day. A simple
chat would always lift my spirits.

"Now all I want to do is sort out the estate.

It's far too soon to think about starting again with anyone else. I have just
sold our flat in Pimlico for about GBP 400,000 and I want to buy a bigger
three-bedroomed apartment, also in Pimlico, which is where my life is now."

MORE INFORMATION:

Mill Lodge is under offer for GBP 500,000.

Webbers Fine and Country: 01805 624 334, webbers.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MOVING ON: Helen campaigning with her husband Piers, left, and outside
their 'happy home' in Devon
TRANQUIL: Helen Burrluck at her traditional rural home

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              232 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             April 11, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Voting is best form of protest;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 24

LENGTH: 871  words


ARE IGNORANCE and apathy the Achilles heel of British elections? I don't know
and I don't care. A joke, of course, but not so funny because millions of people
are now so repelled by politics that they will not bother to vote on May 6.

What an indictment of the Westminster wallies who have presided over the slow
decay of democracy since the Sixties. The expenses scandal was a catalyst of
public contempt for individual politicians and also Parliament as an institution
but it merely caps the mountain of resentment over the apparent pointlessness of
voting.

Don't vote. It only encourages them. If there were any point in voting, they'd
ban it. Politicians are all the same. Promise to build a bridge, even if there's
no river.

This kind of cynicism grows from the belief that, whoever wins the election, it
won't make much difference to daily life. In my lifetime, voter turnout in
elections has plummeted. In 1950, 84.5 per cent of those eligible turned out. By
2007, it was only 61 per cent and it could drop even lower.

Partly, this is because the ideological differences that divided the parties
have disappeared. Socialism was destroyed by Margaret Thatcher and the collapse
of the Soviet Union ended the global Left/Right power struggle. Then Blairism
sucked the soul out of the Labour Party and debased politics with its culture of
spin and lies.

Most importantly, Parliament has been sidelined by the politicians themselves.

Three-quarters of all our laws are now made by the EU in Brussels.

The one thing leading politicians do agree on is that voters must never be given
a chance to reverse this process in a referendum. David Cameron went down in
people's estimation by breaking his "castiron promise" of a referendum on the EU
constitution. Now William Hague has gone further and rules out a row with the EU
over repatriation of Parliament's powers.

No wonder voters are cynical.

THE MAJOR parties treat us like idiots, even on the Government's colossal
financial deficit. We all know that taxes must rise and spending must fall by
far more than the LibLabCon will admit.

Last week's row over National Insurance is just shadow boxing.

The sums of neither Labour nor the Tories add up. George Osborne's claims of
raising GBP 12billion from "cutting waste" and "efficiency savings" are just pie
in the sky. Labour has no plans at all to cut spending and elies on economic
growth forecasts that no one believes to plug the gap.

This is the most important election since 1979. Then we had the winter of
discontent and a discredited, high-spending Labour government forced to go cap
in hand to the IMF for a bailout. The economic crisis we face now is even
greater, merely disguised because the Government has been printing money to
carry on its rake's progress.

It has doubled the national debt in four years. Just like 30 years go, we need a
decisive shift, not only to restore financial stability but also to deal with
many issues where politicians generally have failed us.

Mass, unrestricted immigration places intolerable strains on public services and
threatens our identity as a nation. The march of political correctness goes on
apace; a nurse is banned from wearing a crucifix at work and a pensioner is
fined GBP 1,000 and tagged for selling a goldfish.

Billions are lavished on health and education, with little obvious result. NHS
spending has doubled since 1997 yet productivity has fallen. Millions of
children get top exam grades but can write only in jargon or street language and
cannot do simple sums without a calculator.

As big again as the current national debt, GBP 1.4trillion don't forget, is our
state pension deficit. By 2014, the interest alone on the national debt, which
will still be ising under Labour's plans, will be GBP 63billion a year. That is
GBP 20billion more than we spend on defence.

As the baby boomers become pensioners, there will be fewer workers to pay thei r
pensions. National insurance was supposed to fund them when Lloyd George
introduced it in 1911 but politicians of all parties have just blown the cash
and hoped for the best.

None of the major parties tells the truth about the scale of the task that lies
ahead.

The problems are far more deep-seated than a decade of Blair-Brown profligac y
and deceit. The kissing has to stop now. I f the politicians won't give a lead,
we must do it for them.

ON CURRENT trends, the don't knows and don't cares could outnumber those who
vote on May 6. That could mean government by default and a re-elected Labour
Party, propped up b backstairs deals with the Liberals, just as in the
Seventies.

For heaven's sake, don't waste your vote by abstaining. Of the three main
parties, the Tories with all their deficiencies are unquestionably the best
choice. If you can't face them, make a positive protest. Kidderminster has twice
elected independent Dr Richard Taylor. UKIP got 16 per cent in the Euro
elections and advocates the straight talking the country needs.

Rather than abstain, vote to throw the rascals out. Nothing would do more to
send a shockwave through our moribund political system than a strong showing by
a respectable alternative like UKIP or an independent like Esther Rantzen in
Luton.

If you don't vote, you've no right to complain.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ALTERNATIVE: Esther Rantzen is campaigning as an independent in Luton
South

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              233 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The big question;
Election2010

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 396 words


SIR - Why are politicians arguing about how to save £10 billion or £20 billion a
year, when this country is running an annual deficit of £160 billion? Is it
inconvenient at the moment to discuss the obvious problem? George Noon Preston,
Lancashire SIR - Would one be wrong in thinking that Gordon Brown's apparent
belief that an increase in National Insurance contributions by employers
contributes to the economy, whereas leaving the funds to be disposed of within
industry does not, is odd to the point of insanity? It seems to be widely
accepted that spending by government is good for the economy and spending by the
private sector is bad. Surely it is the other way round.

Nicholas Sibley Hong Kong SIR - Talk of 20,000-40,000 job cuts in the public
sector is disingenuous. This represents only a fraction of 1 per cent of the six
million workers in public service.

Since cuts in expenditure of 20 per cent are thought to be the minimum required
to cut the national debt - and labour is the greatest cost in the public sector
- job losses of over a million are nearer the truth.

Perhaps it's expecting too much for this to be admitted this side of the
election. Andy Nash Cheddon Fitzpaine, Somerset SIR - To reduce needless
expenditure, the Conservatives need look no further than the £170 million or
more we send annually to China, the second largest trading nation on earth with
trillions in reserves.

H. Margaret Draper Salisbury, Wiltshire SIR - You are correct in suggesting
(Leading article, April 7) that the next month will be "blissful" for the
Liberal Democrats, because it is the only time that they receive equality of
treatment with the two big parties.

The purpose of the live debates should be to pit the genuine candidates for the
post of Prime Minister against each other. Nick Clegg has no chance.

On what grounds are the Liberal Democrats included with the two main parties in
all three debates, instead of the leaders of several smaller parties in
rotation? After all, in the most recent national elections - those for the
European Parliament - Ukip came second and the Liberal Democrats fourth.

Gregory Shenkman London W8 SIR - Ever since Gordon Brown fired the election
starting-gun, we in West Oxfordshire (David Cameron's constituency) have had
nothing but clear blue skies and sunshine. Long may it continue.

Jonathan and Deborah Evans Witney, Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              234 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Young hopeful confident he can recapture Tartan Tories5;
Conservative voters in Perth and North Perthshire switched to the SNP in 1997 to
keep Labour out

BYLINE: Alan Cochrane

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 849 words


ONE of the best indicators as to whether the so-called "Cameron effect" has
crossed the border will come with the result in the key marginal of Perth and
North Perthshire.

In this sprawling constituency, dominated by the "Fair City" of Perth but which
stretches from the edge of the Highlands to the outskirts of Dundee, the SNP is
defending a slender 1,800 majority over the Tories.

The area has seen a series of fierce contests between these two parties over the
past 40 years or so, with the Nats coming out on top more often than not.

It is a constituency carved out of the old North Tayside seat and it is that
connection which may still count for much on polling day. According to Peter
Lyburn, the Tory candidate, it is recapturing those many Tory voters who first
switched to the SNP in 1997 that will provide the key to his success or failure
on May 6. Describing them as "Tartan Tories" - an echo of an older jibe about
SNP supporters from Willie Ross, the former Scottish Secretary - Mr Lyburn says
one of his primary tasks is to encourage them to return to the Conservative
fold.

"I have got to persuade those natural Tories to come home. They have been voting
tactically for the SNP to keep Labour out but we've got to get them back," he
says.

Not surprisingly, he is confi-dent of doing so and claims that people are now
listening to the Tory message, adding: " It is something we haven't had in
Scotland for 10 or 15 years."

Mind you, how Mr Lyburn would know what was happening in 2000, far less 1995 is
open to question, given that he's only 25. Still, that appears to be no handicap
to this extremely confident and personable young man.

"He is impossibly good-looking," said one well-turned-out lady of a certain age
when the Tory canvassers turned up in Perth's High Street this week. "But he's
very clever, too," she added.

A privately educated farmer's son, who could easily be described as a taller and
younger version of David Cameron, he chooses his words carefully about the
nation's economic prospects under the Tories, and is scornful of the SNP's
message that Scotland should escape the coming public spending cuts.

"There will be pain from Penrith to Perthshire. We have to share the good times
and bad times but we have spent beyond our means. It's time for a rebalancing,"
he insists.

It's this word "rebalancing" that crops up often in his conversation.

The public sector needs "rebalancing", he says, but job losses would be kept to
a minimum because of this " sensible rebalancing".

Looking remarkably unfazed by this young pretender is Pete Wishart, the
defending SNP MP.

Mr Wishart is pleased by what he sees as a three-way split for the Right-wing
vote: his Tory opponent in 2005 - dumped this time - who is standing for the
Trust party, Mr Lyburn, and a Ukip candidate.

"There is a choice for Tory voters. They can vote for a traditional Tory in the
Trust candidate, a foaming at the mouth Europhobe in Ukip or a vacuous candidate
in Mr Lyburn," he claims.

Strangely, however, Douglas Taylor, the disgruntled ex-Tory, appears to be
targeting Mr Wishart and not Mr Lyburn - taking out page advertisements in the
local paper attacking the MP's expenses record, whilst at the same time
insisting that he's not challenging the SNP man's "integrity". Very odd.

Mr Wishart says that he gets on reasonably well with his current Tory challenger
but can't resist a dig at Mr Lyburn's youthfulness.

"He's a nice guy and has a nice line in glossy brochures but when I was 25 I was
touring the world in a rock band," smiles the former keyboards player with
RunRig.

Nearly 43,000 of the constituency's 73,000 electors live in the city of Perth
and this is also where the bulk of the Labour vote - 18 per cent of the total
five years ago - resides.

Not surprisingly, then, this is where Mr Wishart is devoting a great deal of his
effort. "We must squeeze that Labour vote and get them to vote for us against
the Tories. After all, nobody wants David Cameron."

Mr Wishart is an enthusiast for Alex Salmond's mission to use SNP votes in a
hung parliament to get a better deal for Scotland. " For the first time we have
a real opportunity to have real influence at Westminster," he says.

The Nats are often criticised by the Tories in Scotland for being soft on crime.
Not so, Mr Wishart. He was late for our meeting yesterday; his house had just
been burgled.

Although the Perth and North Perthshire constituency was first fought only in
2005, this part of the world has had a remarkably chequered political history -
with the voters veering from Tory to Nat and back again.

This time round the issue will be decided by whether Mr Lyburn can lure back his
Tartan Tories, or whether Mr Wishart can hold his vote as well as winning over
those anti-Cameron Labourites.

PREVIOUS ELECTION RESULTS: PERTH AND NORTH PERTHSHIRE 2005 General Election
turnout: 64.8% NUMBER OF VOTES PERCENTAGE OF VOTE CANDIDATE PARTY Peter Wishart
SNP 15,469 33.7% Douglas Taylor Conservative 13,948 30.04% Doug Maughan Labour
8,601 18.7% Gordon Campbell Liberal Democrat 7,403 16.1% Philip Stott Scottish
Socialist 509 1.1%

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pete Wishart, above, is unfazed by the Conservatives' 'young
pretender', Peter Lyburn, who was seen out campaigning in Perth this week with
William Hague, right
DEREK BLAIR/SCOTIMAGE.COM

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              235 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Time to turf Bercow out of the Commons;
ON SATURDAY

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 593 words


There are some pretty repellent people preparing to stand at the election: and,
in time, we shall come on to the question of the Hon Dr Tristram Hunt, who seeks
to become the people's party's representative for Stoke. For the moment,
however, there is one urgent priority: and that concerns the man whom it shames
Britain to have to call the Speaker of the House of Commons, John Bercow.

The disgusting spectacle of this saponaceous little creep shaking hands with
various expenses fiddlers as they left the House of Commons on Thursday, of his
boasting that (since being rumbled for a bit of taxpayerfunded extravagance
himself) he has in fact been very cheap to run, and of his gall in using the
Leader of the Opposition (who, I would wager, cannot stand the sight of him) to
endorse him on his website, is of a piece with the atrocious behaviour that led
him to occupy the Chair in the first place. The Speakership should be an act of
public service: but for Little Bercow it is simply an act of ambition.

His own party cannot stand him. The Labour Party, outrageously choosing to score
a political point in the aftermath of the expenses scandal, rather than to
salvage the reputation of the House of Commons, thought it was frightfully funny
to elect him to his post. He has neither the experience nor the gravitas to do
the job properly. As he sat in his Mothercare-supplied robes, presiding over the
most corrupt House of Commons for centuries, looking like a man waiting for a
spot on a toadstool by an ornamental pond to become vacant, one could conclude
that he and they deserved each other. But we, the electorate, have done nothing
to deserve him.

Since he is notionally a Conservative, that party has no candidate against him.
Nor do the Lib Dems or Labour, and they would look foolish if they did: after
all, they wanted him to be Speaker in the first place. There are (so far)
various independents, and a bonehead from the BNP. But there are two serious
candidates: Nigel Farage, the charismatic former leader of Ukip, and John
Stevens, a former MEP standing on a "democracy" ticket. I have nothing against
Mr Stevens, but his politics are too bland for me. I am in no doubt that the
people of Buckingham, not least to perform the public service of removing the
smear of Bercow from British politics, should vote for Mr Farage.

After all, as well as his election's providing that happy outcome, there would
be other bonuses: which is that Buckingham would again have a proper
conservative MP. Mr Farage is most notably standing on a programme of getting
out of Europe, which the Tory party itself will soon have to own up to as the
only alternative to the status quo - nobody is going to let them renegotiate
anything. However, he also believes in many other things that real conservatives
want and that Dave won't give them: serious public spending cuts, the reduction
in the size of the state, grammar schools, strict immigration controls, and a
commitment to making questions such as smoking in pubs and hunting with hounds
matters of personal liberty.

Any conservative living in Buckingham should vote for Mr Farage. So should any
Conservative, given they have no candidate. But so, indeed, should anyone who
cares about the institution of Parliament. Bercow has shown he has no place
there. Those who recall Mr Farage's splendid assault on Herman van Rompuy in the
European Parliament a few months ago will know he has the courage of his
convictions. He now has another nonentity in his sights: I do hope he is given
the means to pull the trigger.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Saponaceous Speaker

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              236 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday

National: Campaign 2010: On the ground: Showdown

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 114 words


The contest

High profile, with Cherie Blair and father Tony Booth to campaign, but the
Tories, despite Ukip and English Democrat rivals, are buoyant.

Data

Tories need a 1.37% swing to overturn Labour's 1,303 majority (2.7% on a 67%
turnout).

The constituency

Small towns beside the Calder and canal from Todmorden to Brighouse, with steep
woods and sheep intakes below Bronte moors. Strong manufacturing base and major
financial inheritance from former Halifax bank. Tourism highlights include
Indonesian gamelan concerts and World Dock Pudding Championships.

History

Created 1983, largely from Sir Donald Thompson's former Sowerby seat. Previously
Tory/Labour marginal with solid Lib Dem vote.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              237 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday

National: Campaign 2010: Week one pictures: Close-up

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 119 words


Captions:

Olympics minister Tessa Jowell and work and pensions secretary Yvette Cooper
leave a meeting finalising manifesto details

Ukip MEP and former party leader Nigel Farage takes a cigarette break in
Winslow, where he is standing against John Bercow

Conservative party leader David Cameron speaks to an audience of 300 at the Sir
John Hunt Community Sport College in Plymouth - one of Labour's strongholds in
the west country

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg (left) and former party leader Charles
Kennedy chat on a campaign flight to Glasgow

Gordon and Sarah Brown at Bromley by Bow community and health centre, east
London

Gordon Brown answers questions during what was dubbed a 'People's PMQs' session
in London

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              238 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday

Poland's tragedy, in which we all share

BYLINE: Denis MacShaneguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 787 words

ABSTRACT

Denis MacShane: The death of President Lech Kaczynski and the cream of Polish
political leadership is a desperate loss. Let us honour his legacy

FULL TEXT

The word decimate does not begin to do justice to . Over the , the national
leadership of Poland has been wiped out.

It is not just President Lech Kaczynski, but among the dead are Poland's finest
military commanders, who had restored Poland's reputation as a great soldiering
nation. There were also the governor of the central bank and other senior
ministers. There was Jerzy Szmajdzinski, the presidential candidate for the
social democratic SLD party; Andrezj Kremer, the rising young foreign minister,
seen as a future EU foreign policy star; the delightful Jolanta Szymanek-Deresz,
whom I knew as a fellow-member of the praesidium of the party of European
Socialists, and who came to the Labour party conference last year. Leading Poles
based in London, like the former president of the exiled Polish government in
London, Dr Ryszard Kaczorowski, also died.

Never before in modern or even recent European history has a national leadership
been so abruptly removed. Every Pole will think of the abrupt and still
mysterious death in a plane crash in 1943 of the , who died when his plane
nosedived into the sea off Gibraltar as he was returning from inspecting Polish
troops serving under Field Marshal Montgomery.

To be sure, Lech Kaczynski, who died together with his wife, Maria, was not,
politically, everyone's cup of lemon tea. But he was a true son of Poland who
sought always to uphold the honour and stature of the Polish nation and people
as he saw them. He was a stalwart of the independent Solidarnosc trade union
movement and fought to restore democracy to Poland in the 1980s. As president,
he was brave when he risked his life by  to show solidarity with the Georgian
people when they faced the land-sea-air invasion by Russia. Then, his plane was
ordered by the Russian invaders to divert away from Tbilisi and he ordered the
pilot to defy the Russian threats and land.

Relations with Russia had improved markedly under the calm diplomacy of the
Polish prime minister, Donald Tusk, and foreign minister, the Oxford-educated
Radek Sikorski.  where Russia's prime minister, Vladmir Putin, had acknowledged
the Kremlin's guilt for the wartime massacre of thousands of Polish military,
civil service and university leaders.

President Kaczynski and the crème de la crème of today's Polish national
leadership were invited as friends of Russia to take part in a mass tomorrow to
honour the Katyn dead. Poland was the first nation to press the reset button
with Russia, to be followed by Obama's United States.

The Poles will have to ask why their head of state and the nation's leadership
were flying in a 20-year-old Russian Tupolev . Polish investigators will also
ask who took the decision on board the plane to fly into a foggy, marshy zone of
Europe with tall pine and beech trees that touch the clouds. There is a meanness
about the treatment of government representatives who, in the name of finance
ministry parsimony, are expected to fly travel in outdated, low-tech,
uncomfortable planes. Poland's social democratic prime minister, Leszek Miller,
who took Poland into the EU in 2004, broke his back in a helicopter crash; there
seems something fated about Polish leaders and air travel.

Kaczynski and his twin brother, Jaroslaw, were controversial political leaders
of Europe's populist Catholic right with a premodern line on women's and gay
rights. But Polish voters ejected his PiS party as their government in the Szjem
elections of 2008, and few imagined Kaczynski winning the forthcoming
presidential election. But he reached out to Poland's Jewish community and
worked with Poland's Chief Rabbi, . Whatever his utterances in Warsaw, he signed
all EU treaties, and Poland is more than ever integrated into Europe.

The exchange of people, goods, ideas and culture between Poland and Britain is
stronger than ever, despite the hate rants of the Rothermere-Desmond tabloids,
Ukip and the BNP against the presence of Poles in British workplaces and
communities.

President Kaczynski was a Polish patriot and his tragic death hurts and hits all
Poles and friends of Poland. From this catastrophe, perhaps Poland can finally
make its peace, once and for all, with Russia: the death on Russian soil of
Polish leaders is now a shared tragedy, which both nations should use to mark an
end to centuries of dislike and worse.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              239 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

The battle for Barking;
ELECTION 2010 Cahal Milmo reports from the east London constituency where Nick
Griffin is trying to unseat a Labour minister 'This is my country just as much
as it is theirs'

BYLINE: Cahal Milmo

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1698 words


The Koranic verses are ringing out from a stereo on Hamza Myatt's market stall
on Barking's pedestrianised high street. The 36-year-old ginger-haired and
white-skinned Muslim convert swapped his life as a financial adviser in South
Wales to proselytise for his new faith in the outer reaches of East London three
weeks after the 9/11 attacks. He now spends market days noisily selling Islamic
literature.

A few feet away from Mr Myatt's stall, at a mobile snack bar selling tea and
bacon butties, where customers are trying on keffiyeh scarves and checking
through DVDs on Islam for children, stands a furious Derek Carlton.

Pointing his finger towards Mr Myatt's loudspeaker, now broadcasting an imam's
sermon, Mr Carlton, 46, a maintenance engineer, says: "Yes, I will vote BNP and
that is why. I have no problem with other religions. What I have a problem with
is when it changes the character of your town and you're not allowed to say
anything about it.

"The BNP is saying what no one else will. Slowly but surely, people like me are
being pushed aside in favour of outsiders. You can't tell me it's racist to be
annoyed that my children can't get a council house in the same place as their
parents because they've all been handed over to Africans and Muslims?"

Welcome to Barking and Dagenham, the former industrial heartland of the white
working classes, now a bellwether for the rising fortunes of the far right.

It is far from unthinkable that the citizens of this London borough will wake on
7 May to find the British National Party running their council. If its confident
prediction that it can more than double its contingent of 12 councillors comes
true, a party whose leader, Nick Griffin, once denied the Holocaust and said
"Hitler went a bit too far" will find itself in charge of services to 165,000
people and an annual budget of £200m.

This weekend, hundreds of BNP supporters are expected to descend on the area. In
an email, Mr Griffin appeals for as many members as possible to target the
constituency over the weekend. "A victory in Barking and Dagenham will benefit
every region and branch in the country, as a breakthrough of that magnitude will
cause a political earthquake and publicity frenzy," he writes.

Margaret Hodge, the Labour minister and incumbent MP against whom Mr Griffin is
standing for Parliament, is calling for supporters to come out in force to match
the BNP's canvassing effort. Mr Carlton, one of an estimated 5,000-10,000 voters
in Barking and Dagenham whoare BNP supporters, is the embodiment of a radical
change in the far-right party's fortunes in this area.

In the 1997 general election, the BNP mustered just 894 votes, or 2.7 per cent
of the vote. In the 2008 London Assembly elections, the BNP vote in some wards
hit more than 38 per cent.

Alongside Stoke-on-Trent council, the BNP has made no secret of the fact that
securing power in Barking and Dagenham is its priority. Mr Griffin has stated
that his candidacy is designed to allow him to take the "flak" from anti-BNP
campaigners while his activists focus on the "real prize" of the council.

The Independent understands the party is close to fielding a candidate for each
of the 51 local authority seats with the aim of securing the 14 extra
councillors it needs to seize its "prize". It could take as little as 1,000
votes in six wards to hand power to the BNP.

The roots of this grim transformation from a protest vote to candidate for power
lie in what its opponents admit has been a "perfect storm" of issues that pander
to the extreme right.

Against a backdrop of deindustrialisation which has seen the powerhouse of the
Ford Motor Company at Dagenham wither to less than 5 per cent of its previous
workforce, the area has experienced considerable immigration with some wards
going from a ethnic minority population of about 5 per cent to up to 35 per cent
since 2000.

As one opponent put it: "The BNP are like winter potholes. They slide into a gap
in our communities and wait for bad weather." One such political "pothole",
repeated to The Independent by a large number of residents, is the notion that
the borough's influx of migrants is politically-inspired. A Government scheme to
persuade immigrant families in inner city London to free up council housing by
subsidising a move out to cheaper areas such as Barking and Dagenham resulted in
30 families moving in - seven were white, nine were Asian, nine were black and
five did not specify their ethnicity. The maximum subsidy was £16,000. Most
received about £4,000.

This has not stopped the BNP running a campaign it calls "Africans for Essex",
stating that the borough has been flooded with immigrants paid £50,000 a time to
slant the electoral arithmetic of Barking and Dagenham in favour of the ruling
Labour administration, which has 34 seats on the council.

It is a fallacy that the extremist party continues to peddle, taking pictures
such as Mr Griffin posing by a banner advertising a Nigerian Islamic group.

Eddy Butler, the BNP national election organiser until he stepped down last
week, added: "The Labour Party has deliberately transported African migrants
into this part of Essex to create an electorate willing to vote Labour." His
words appear to strike a chord on the streets of the constituency.

The lack of social housing is a major problem locally and a key electoral issue.
Margaret Thatcher's right-to-buy policy cut the housing stock in an area which
includes the vast Becontree estate, the world's largest public housing project.
Successive Labour governments have stymied the development of new homes, leaving
a council waiting list of 11,695.

Last month, a scheme was announced to provide 145 new homes in two years - the
first new council homes in Barking for 25 years. Such has been the inertia of
central government, the local Labour Party has distanced itself from its
national policies. Phil Waker, the Labour councillor in charge of housing, said:
"New Labour has been complacent - especially on housing. We will fight any
government on this issue."

By contrast, the BNP's response on the issue has been erratic. It set out plans
for a giant caravan park of 1,000 mobile homes sited on public land in Dagenham
set aside for permanent housing. When it was pointed out that the
£1,000-per-caravan budget would create a Steptoe & Son eyesore without
facilities, the idea was dropped in favour of what Mr Griffin has dubbed a "sons
and daughters" policy to give the offspring of current tenants first refusal on
homes.

Placed alongside incidents including a local BNP vote against sending a message
to congratulate the British Olympic team at the Beijing games because it
included athletes such as Dame Kelly Holmes and Amir Khan, and the fact that BNP
councillors occupy the bottom seven places for attendance, opponents say its
record speaks for itself.

Mrs Hodge, targeted by the BNP with leaflets attacking the £50m fortune she
inherited from her Jewish father, said: "I have spent three years exposing the
true nature of BNP councillors in Barking. I want to turn this threat into an
opportunity to destroy their credibility nationally." The announcement last week
that the BNP's head of publicity, Mark Collett, had been reported to police for
alleged threats to kill, amid talk of a major split in the party's higher
echelons, has raised hope among opponents that its challenge could implode. The
BNP swatted aside claims that Mr Butler had stepped down, saying he was focused
on Barking and Dagenham.

An unorthodox campaign may play a pivotal role in the "Battle for Barking". A
nondescript office block on the A13, overlooking a corner of the vast Ford plant
that once employed 50,000 but now provides 2,000 jobs, is the HQ of Hope Not
Hate - a coalition of activists including the Searchlight anti-fascist group,
unions and community groups. It has been building a network among women's
groups, churches and others uncomfortable with the BNP.

Its campaign will harness the full paraphernalia of modern electioneering,
including an email list of 142,000 voters, telephone canvassing and targeted
leafleting. Sam Tarry, the Dagenham-born activist leading the scheme, said: "The
days have gone when the BNP could be dismissed as swivel-eyed Nazis. In the last
general election, people were cagey about saying they'd vote BNP. That shame is
no longer there. Our job is to expose the BNP for what they are so decent people
don't vote for them. We will be relentlessly negative about what the BNP are -
their record in power, the criminal record of their leader and their damaging
policies."

Nearby lies the council ward of Goresbrook, the epicentre of BNP support in
Barking and Dagenham. Its streets are lined with terraced houses, many
displaying the signs of right-to-buy ownership such as conservatories and
extensions. One, with a Union flag and a St George's flag fluttering outside,
belongs to Richard Barnbrook, the former art student with a penchant for erotica
who is the BNP deputy leader on the council. He says London will be "decimated"
by immigration if the party fails to win Barking and Dagenham.

As she walks past, Beryl Ferguson, 64, a retired shopkeeper who has lived on the
estate for 42 years, begs to differ. She said: "I voted for that lot [the BNP]
last time but not now. I've got Africans a few doors down and you get used to
each other. We've got to rub along. The BNP don't want that, do they?"

Back at the market Mr Myatt is less optimistic. "Democracy is a bit of a myth in
this place," he says. "We will have democracy for one day and then it is back to
an elected dictatorship.

"The problem is that here we're heading for a BNP dictatorship. For the moment,
they leave me alone but what if they come to power? They call Islam wicked. I'd
love to meet them face to face and put them right. This is my country as much as
theirs. What are they going to do? Take away my British passport?"

Barking

Result in 2005

* Labour: Margaret Hodge, 13,826, 47.5 per cent

* Conservative: Keith Prince, 4,943, 17.0 per cent

* British National Party: Richard Barnbrook, 4,916, 16.9 per cent

* Liberal Democrat: Toby Wickenden, 3,411, 11.7 per cent

* UK Independence Party: Terry Jones, 803, 2.8 per cent

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              240 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Sean O'Grady's BEST BETS;
ELECTION 2010 The Independent's Economics Editor turns to money matters of
another kind: how to make a mint out of the election

BYLINE: Sean O'Grady

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 433 words


General elections are horse races, and, like the real thing, some are more
exciting than others. This year's is the closest since 1992 and some £20m will
be wagered on it.

The Tories are favourites to win, at least in terms of having most MPs: 7 to 1
on, at William Hill, as opposed to 4 to 1 for Labour and 150-1 for the Liberal
Democrats. A Tory overall majority is 8 to 15, and for Labour it's 10 to 1. A
hung parliament is the favourite outcome: 4/9 says it will be at Hills, and 13/8
that it won't. A Lib-Lab coalition is 4 to 1 at Paddy Power.

If you're rich and brave, you could make money on tight odds. If you think that
the Conservatives will fail to win a majority of 100 plus, you might take
Ladbrokes' offer of 6 to 1 against and make £100 profit for a £600 bet. The
11/10 offered by Ladbrokes on the Lib Dems winning a majority of seats in
Cornwall is the best of the regional punts.

There is also the spread betting, where you bet, say £10, for each seat a party
might win or lose against a threshold. Sporting Index is offering the Tories on
between 334 and 339 seats, Labour on 216 to 221 and the Lib Dems between 60 and
63.

So if you think, say, that the Lib Dems are in for a bad night and they'll only
hold 50 seats, at £10 a seat that would yield you £100; but if Clegg breaks
through and wins 100 seats, you'll owe the bookie £400.

Political betting is best as an emotional hedge. If you're a dedicated socialist
you should put a considerable sum on a Cameron win, so your political sorrow
will be assuaged by your winnings. Well, that's the theory...

Most seats William Hill Ladbrokes Paddy Power

Conservatives 1 to 7 1 to 8 1 to 7

Labour 4 to 1 5 to 1 4 to 1

Liberal Democrats 150 to 1 200 to 1 200 to 1

To deliver next budget...

George Osborne 2 to 5

Vince Cable 7 to 1

Alistair Darling 8 to 1

Ed Balls 10 to 1

Philip Hammond 16 to 1

Michael Gove 20 to 1

(William Hill)

To win one seat...

BNP 11 to 4

Greens 8 to 11

UKIP 2 to 1

(Ladbrokes)

Esther Rantzen to win Luton S

6 to 1

(QuirkyBets.com)

Gordon Brown's successor

David Miliband 9 to 4

Ed Miliband 5 to 1

Alan Johnson 6 to 1

Peter Mandelson 15 to 2

Harriet Harman 9 to 1

Ed Balls 12 to 1

Caroline Flint 100 to 1

Tony Blair 100 to 1

(William Hill)

Esther Rantzen to win Luton S

6 to 1

(QuirkyBets.com)

First to "noticeably perspire" in TV debates

Clegg 11 to 10

Cameron 6 to 4

Brown 3 to 1

(Paddy Power)

Seat with lowest turnout

Glasgow North East 7 to 4

Liverpool Riverside 2 to 1

Salford and Eccles 5 to 1

(Ladbrokes)

Will there be two or more UK Elections in 2010?

No 2 to 9

Yes 3 to 1

(William Hill)

Any leader not to shake hands at end of TV debate 5 to 1

(Paddy Power)

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              241 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

MIND YOUR OWN BUSINESS!;
ELECTION 2010 Captains of industry accused of hijacking election for their own
ends after National Insurance row dominates start of campaign Election 'being
dominated by vested interests'

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 790 words


THE LEADERS of some of Britain's largest businesses were last night accused of
putting their own personal interests ahead of the country by backing
Conservative plans to reverse rises in National Insurance contributions (NICs).
Senior figures in the charitable sector, academia and politics warned that the
interests of vast sections of British society were being ignored amid the
hysteria generated this week by a roll-call of industrialists supporting Tory
tax policy.

The fall-out from their intervention continued to dominate campaigning yesterday
as clashes intensified between Labour and Tories over how David Cameron would
afford his eye-catching promise and whether it would cost thousands of jobs.

Today, David Cameron will announce the latest element of his tax proposals with
plans to give married couples a tax break of up to £150 a year. The move -
designed to meet the Tory leader's promise to recognise marriage - is targeted
at basic rate taxpayers.

But, amid signs of a backlash against the Tories and their supporters, Vince
Cable, the Liberal Democrat Treasury spokesman, turned on the businessmen, whose
numbers have risen to more than 130, accusing them of having mixed motives for
backing the proposals.

"We are seeing extraordinary behaviour from the captains of British industry.
Some of these businessmen have had massive increases in their remuneration and
are paid a hundred times more than their workforce, yet they have signed up to
an agenda based on voodoo accounting which they would never dream of employing
in their own enterprises."

Caroline Lucas, the leader of the Green Party, said: "It's very depressing to
see the debate dominated essentially by vested interests within big business
doing what you would expect them to do - protect their bottom line."

The complaints were echoed by pressure groups protesting they were at risk of
being drowned out of the election debate. Michelle Mitchell, charity director
for Age UK, said: "We have heard a lot from the business lobby, but other groups
such as older people are important too and their voices must be heard. Older
voters have huge influence in this election and it is vital politicians listen
and take action on the issues, such as pensions, social care, working in later
life, which are important to them."

A spokeswoman for Gingerbread, the charity for lone parents, said: "Debates
about tax and spending need to be conducted listening to the voices of those
whom they will affect most. Half of all single parents live in poverty and
decisions about where the money goes will have a major impact on their lives and
those of their children."

Environmental groups also warned that the issue had been pushed to the margins
of the election by the intervention of the big business lobby.

John Sauven, the executive director of Greenpeace, said: "It's quite bizarre
that such a small group of people fighting over a relatively small amount of
money has taken up such a large proportion of the election coverage."

A leading academic told The Independent last night it was rare for business
leaders to become such active participants in election exchanges. Professor Tony
Travers, of the London School of Economics, said: "It's unusual in recent times
for so many business leaders to adopt a high public profile. They well know they
are going to get dragged into politics; they don't mind that.

"My hunch would be that they have worked out that they are so important to the
Government - because all job growth is going to be in the private sector - that
whoever is in government is not going to mess with them."

The Tories were yesterday for the first time thrown on to the defensive in the
row over their plans to reverse the NICs rise, which they say will be paid for
by efficiency savings of £12bn.

Sir Peter Gershon, one of Mr Cameron's efficiency advisers, said up to £2bn
would be raised by cutting the public payroll by an estimated 20,000 to 40,000
jobs. The Tory leader claimed that the posts could be shed by not filling
vacancies as they arose and there would be no compulsory redundancies.

But Mr Brown said the Tory plans would lead to "substantial" job losses.

Valediction for a tired and tainted Parliament

Editorial, page 36

I decide who to vote for - and then something puts me off

Richard Ingrams, page 43

The long march to power

Away from the spotlight yesterday, as the sun came out, the campaign heated up.
Tory candidate Jason Rust has a long road ahead of him if he is to overturn
Alistair Darling in Edinburgh South-West. Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage enjoys
a cigarette - unlikely to be a Gitanes - during his campaign to unseat speaker
John Bercow in Buckingham. Tony Juniper tries simultaneous punting and
gladhanding in Cambridge. Getty; mrpaparazzi

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              242 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Problem so complicated it is, in fact, insoluble;
Danny & Phil Your poll doctors dannyandphil@thetimes.co.uk

BYLINE: Danny; Phil

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 700 words


Unsure how to vote? UDaniel Finkelstein, executive editor of The Times (and
former adviser to John Major), and Phil Collins, Times leader writer (and a
former speechwriter for Tony Blair), offer the confused advice on which way to
turn.

Helen Dwyer Brighton Pavilion (Lab majority: 5,030)

Helen Dwyer is an 18-year old politics student and first-time voter. She says
she "has always thought that I would vote Labour, as this is the party I agree
most with". However, her currentMPis standing down and she is not blown away by
his replacement. This puts her "in a quandary". She likes the Green Party's
candidate, Caroline Lucas, but fears that voting Green could contribute to a
hung parliament or a Tory government, neither of which she wants.

Voting history: n/a

Danny says You have indeed got a complicated problem. So complicated that it is,
in fact, insoluble. Brighton Pavilion is a three-way marginal that is impossible
to predict. Thus tactical voting won't work. If you vote Green, you could
deprive Labour of the seat. On the other hand, voting Labour might let the
Tories in. And voting for anyone but the Tories increases the chances of a hung
Parliament, which you say you don't want. You can't control the consequences of
your vote, so go with the candidate that you like best (heaven help you).

Phil says Oh dear. Move house? I've got a spare room-you could come and vote
against Zac Goldsmith where I live. But, no, forget the tactics: vote for the
candidate you like best.

Verdict Vote for the Green Party and cross your fingers about the tactical
consequences.

Maggie Stuart Bermondsey&Old Southwark (LibDemmajority: 5406)

Maggie Stuart, 27, is an unmarried freelance writer. Anatural LibDem voter, she
has "a sneaking suspicion that they can't cope with the unstemmed flow of
immigration or the chaotic state of the Crown Prosecution Service". She also
says that she "can't bring herself to vote Tory" but thinks "Nick Clegg has the
personality of a spoon". Voting history: 2001, abstained; 2005, Lib Dem.

Phil says Are you sure you're a natural Lib Dem? I know a lot of natural Lib
Dems. They worry about stigmatising welfare claimants and being kind to animals.
Not many of them worry about immigration and the mess in the Crown Prosecution
Service. With those priorities, living where you live, I think the Labour Party
needs you. One of the points of new Labour was to try to make the Left less
soft-headed on crime. You sound like just the right sort of person. Liberal but
not soppy. So I think, if you can cope with the identity crisis, it's the Labour
candidate for you.

Danny says Simon Hughes, your LibDem MP, is excellent at his job but your man to
control immigration, he is not. Verdict Vote with your nature. Vote Labour.

Brian Jones * Buckingham (Con majority: 18,129)

Brian Jones, 42, describes himself as a true blue. However, Buckingham is the
seat of John Bercow, Speaker of the House of Commons. Brian, a self-employed
training consultant, said: "I want myMPto have a voice, to fight for the views
of his constituents, and not just be known for saying 'Order, Order'." Which
leaves him with a dilemma. Does he vote for Bercow, although he wants a "voting"
MP? He does not want to vote for UKIP and hasn't been overwhelmed by any of the
independent candidates, although in principle he would support one.

Voting history: 1997, Con; 2001, Con; 2005, Con.

Danny says Two things. First, you are overestimating the importance of voting in
the Commons and underestimating the quiet influence of the Speaker. You will
find that he can get things done for you, because he is the oneMPthat none of
the others can just ignore. Second, forget the idea of choosing a lovely,
moderate, independent-minded chap to replace Bercow. The Buckingham candidate
shop does not stock such an alternative.

Phil says Even if the sittingMPfor Buckingham were as mad as a box of frogs he
would, in my view, still not be as mad as the alternatives on offer. So Bercow
is the man.

Verdict Vote for the Speaker. *Name changed for professional reasons If you
would like Danny and Phil to advise you, e-mail dannyandphil@thetimes.co.uk or
write to Laura Dixon, Times House, 1 Pennington Street, London, E98 1TA

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              243 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 10, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Labour hopes to turn tide in seat where the SNP swept it away;
Margaret Curran tells Angus Macleod that she is banking on voters reverting to
type

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1092 words


It was the most devastating byelection defeat that the Labour Party had ever
suffered in Scotland.

To lose the prized seat of Glasgow East in its very heartland was seen as a
humiliating blow, and no one felt that more keenly than their candidate, the
feisty and combative Margaret Curran.

It would not be surprising, therefore, if thoughts of sweet revenge on May 6
flitted occasionally across her mind - though she denies it with typical
vehemence.

Mrs Curran, who is also an MSP, does, however, hope that this election will lay
to rest once and for all the spectre of a defeat in July 2008 that saw a 13,000
Labour majority swept away by a Nationalist tsunami.

In the coming weeks Mrs Curran will be trying to exorcise the memory of that
excrutiating defeat for her party at the hands of the SNP's John Mason, the man
who humbled her and who is once again the obstacle to Mrs Curran taking a seat
in the Commons.

Her defeat, it has to be said, was not entirely self-inflicted. She had been
drafted in late as a substitute candidate at a time when Labour and Gordon Brown
were at the height of their unpopularity and when Alex Salmond's SNP minority
government in Edinburgh was still the talk of the town as the new and populist
kids on the block.

Yet, it was still an extraordinary achievement for Labour to lose one of its
safest seats in Scotland, a constituency where voting Labour was second nature
to so many for so long.

However, Labour undoubtedly contributed to its own downfall, fighting a
desperately unfocused campaign, based mainly on hoping that the impossible could
not happen. It did.

Mrs Curran, campaigning on the streets of Shettleston in the heart of the
constituency, believes that that's all in the past and that, this time around,
things are about to revert to type in Glasgow East.

She is making much of the fact that the gloss has gone off Mr Salmond's
Government, which, she claims, has not delivered on a whole range of promises -
education, housing, crime and law and order among them. Having made that point
she quickly moves on to what she obviously considers to be her clinching
argument: one-time Labour voters who switched to the SNP two years ago.

"This time it's different. People here don't want the Tories back in power at
Westminster and we are pointing out that a vote for the SNP could help put David
Cameron into No 10," she says.

Asked if she was seriously asking people to equate David Cameron with Margaret
Thatcher, still destested in these parts, she said without a flicker of doubt:
"Of course. The truth is that David Cameron is a real Tory and people around
here know what the Tories did. They took hope away from people here."

Certainly Hugh Rice, a pensioner, and his wife Margaret, appear to agree with
Mrs Curran's pitch. A long-time Labour voter, Mr Rice says he has every
confidence in Gordon Brown and Labour, before adding: "Anyway, it's a question
of the devil you know. I'd hate the Tories getting back in. They don't care
about Scotland." And the SNP? "They're totally irrelevant," snaps Mr Rice,
delivering a verdict which Mrs Curran is keen to promote.

Certainly the recent by-election evidence would back up Mr Rice. Since the
1990s, the SNP has only been able to hang on at a general election to one seat
won in a by-election. It is the kind of cruel statistic that even the
National-ist candidate talks about unbidden. Indeed, Mr Mason, by all accounts a
conscientious and dedicated MP since he won here in 2008, is surprisingly
diffident about his chances. "It remains to be seen. It's in hands of the
electorate," he says rather obviously when asked about his chances of holding on
to his almost anorexic 365-vote majority. "I accept the odds are stacked against
me... but then again, that was the case in the by-election too."

Mr Mason has been making much of the travails of Labour-run Glasgow City Council
and its former leader Steven Purcell who stepped down in a haze of allegations
about cocaine use and favouritism although talking to him, one doesn't get the
feeling the Purcell issue is having much traction. "I did get a call from one
person who said they had always voted Labour but that he was going to vote for
me this time," he said.

Mr Mason would do well to pay attention to voters such as George Steel, another
pensioner, who believes that "the kick in the arse" Labour received in Glasgow
East two years ago was both timely and deserved.

"But that's what happens at by-election," said Mr Steel. "I like Alex Salmond
but he cannot be Prime Minister, can he?" Voters such as Pamela Lamont, a mother
of an eight-week-old girl, are undecided but she feels that none of the parties
has adequately addressed the child care issues in the area. "I will vote and
I'll probably vote Labour but in a way, it doesn't matter. Nothing really
changes," she says with a shrug.

Glasgow East, as Pamela indicated, with its age-old problems of deprivation,
poor housing and drugs, is not an area where politicians get much respect.

Indeed in the local bookies' shops yesterday, there was much more interest in
the outcome of today's Grand National rather than the political contest on May
6. Yet even a cursory look at how this local campaign is shaping up lets you
know that there is a confidence and conviction about Labour this time that was
utterly absent during the byelection.

That confidence moved one of Mrs Curran's aides to tell me: "I'd put my mortgage
on us taking back this seat." As bets go, it did not sound too much of a risk.

Candidates: Margaret Curran: Labour Hamira Khan: Conservative John Mason: SNP
Arthur Thackeray: UKIP Kevin Ward: Liberal Democrat Result in by-election in
July 2008: SNP Majority of 365

Constituency profile

Previously known as Glasgow Baillieston, the seat the least changed of the old
constituencies in the 2005 boundary review, surviving intact as Glasgow East.
But the seat gained the Shettleston, Tollcross Park, Braidfauld, and Parkhead
wards from the Shettleston division

In 2005 the Labour MP Jimmy Wray retired and David Marshall, MP for the old
Shettleston, took the seat for Labour with a 13,507 majority. Marshall stepped
down as MP in June 2008. In the subsequent by-election, the SNP's John Mason,
pictured, won the seat by 365 votes

Glasgow East is a largely working-class residential seat and contains the vast
Easterhouse council estate. It does, however, have some more upmarket housing
areas, such as the smart detached homes around Mount Vernon

Celtic Park, home of Celtic Football Club, is on the western edge of this seat
close to the city centre

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Margaret Curran, campaigning hard in Glasgow East, in discussion with
Ellen MacLauchlan and her daughter Margaret
TOM FINNIE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              244 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 9, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip suspension over racist email;
Election Briefs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 65 words


A member of Ukip has been suspended from his position as London chairman over
his involvement in a race row.

Paul Wiffen, who is standing for Ilford South, allegedly sent an email to
Community Care, a social care website after it attacked his party. Mr Wiffen
wrote: "You Left-wing scum are all the same, wanting to hand our birthright to
Romanian gipsies ... Muslim nutters." He has apologised.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              245 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              April 9, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Mr Speaker and his tiny claims (don't mention the makeover);
Election 2010

BYLINE: Holly Watt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 467 words


JOHN BERCOW, the Speaker of the House of Commons, is attempting to win over
voters by boasting about his low expenses claims, without mentioning his grace
and favour apartment.

His campaign literature states that he is among the 10 lowest expense claimers
in Parliament. However, he lives in a taxpayer-funded apartment for which he
ordered more than £40,000 in furnishings and renovations last year.

Mr Bercow is being forced to campaign hard to retain his hold on Buckingham,
despite it being one of the safest Conservative seats in the country.
Traditionally, Speakers do not face competition at general elections because
they represent the entire Commons. However, following controversy over Mr
Bercow's appointment last June and his expense claims, he is facing several
challengers in the general election. In his campaign leaflets, Mr Bercow tries
to win over voters with the peculiar claim that he is close to both Labour and
David Cameron.

He boasts of his "direct access" to government ministers in his role as Speaker
and reprints a photograph of Mr Cameron alongside a glowing quote about Mr
Bercow. He also claims that "small parties or independents" will have "no allies
or access in Parliament".

Several candidates, including Nigel Farage, the MEP and former UK Independence
Party leader, and Patrick Phillips, a former high sheriff of Buckinghamshire,
are contesting the Buckingham seat. Mr Bercow spends less than most MPs when all
the allowances, including staffing and office costs, are added together.
However, in the eight years before he was elected as Speaker, he claimed
£165,442 for his second home allowance, £4,357 short of the maximum amount. In
six out of the eight years, he claimed the maximum available.

Last year, The Daily Telegraph disclosed that a refurbishment costing £45,000
had been undertaken on the Speaker's apartment since the Bercows moved in.

Furthermore, since being elected Speaker, he has rented out his London flat, on
which he claimed expenses, for £28,000 a year.

Mr Bercow made a payment of £6,508 to the tax authorities last year after the
Telegraph disclosed that he had "flipped'' the designation of his second home
between London and his constituency. He did this when he sold two houses in the
space of a year, enabling him legally to avoid paying capital gains tax on the
profits. He denied any wrongdoing.

Mr Bercow is facing growing Conservative disenchantment over his conduct as
Speaker, partly because of his perceived closeness to Labour. His wife, Sally,
is a Labour candidate in local elections and very few Conservative MPs voted for
Mr Bercow to become Speaker.

His spokesman said: "It is a statistical fact that he is one of the
lowest-spending MPs and he will be quoting prominent people from all three
parties in the run-up to the election."

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Bercow's website, featuring praise from Mr Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              246 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 9, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: Conservative celebs

BYLINE: Jason Rodrigues

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 133 words


The Tories have had mixed fortunes with celebrity endorsements. Here are some
notable names who have tied their colours to the Conservative mast.

1983 Kenny Everett's

performance for the Tory faithful in London caused embarrassment after he used
the lines: "Let's bomb Russia!"

1993 Nightclub owner Peter

Stringfellow thought he could help relieve the

party's money worries by staging a topless show at their Blackpool conference.

2000 Jim Davidson proved

popular with the Tory rank and file, who snapped up tickets to see him at party
fundraising events. A party spokesman said: "Jim

Davidson is a committed Tory."

2005 Joan Collins, right, broke Tory hearts by switching to Ukip. She was
persuaded back but hinted she was no fan of David Cameron, saying she wanted
William Hague back in charge.

Jason Rodrigues

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              247 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 9, 2010 Friday

Campaign 2010: Smithson's bet of the day

BYLINE: Mike Smithson

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 138 words


With more pollsters producing more general election polls than ever before there
is a lot of interest in the final vote shares that parties will secure.

To tap into this Ladbrokes has produced an interesting market on whether the
three main parties will get above or below specific thresholds in Britain,
excluding Northern Ireland.

These have been set at 40% for the Tories, 30% for Labour and 20% for the
Liberal Democrats.

Given current polling, the best bet must be on the Liberal Democrats reaching
the 20s but the odds are just 8-11.

If you want something with a better return try the Tory bet at 11-10 against
them being above 40%. As we get closer to 6 May there will be a squeeze on the
smaller parties, particularly Ukip, and this, surely, will help Mr Cameron.

Mike Smithson is the founder and editor of politicalbetting.com

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              248 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 9, 2010 Friday

G2: Women: A certain age

BYLINE: Michele Hanson

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 330 words


Rosemary is dreading the next four weeks. She turned her telly on and there was
D Cameron, skipping perkily on to a podium. "It was repulsive," she moaned. "I
can't watch telly again. I can't spend a month like this." The acres of print,
the hours of droning, and poor Rosemary has been plagued by canvassers. Two
Tories in a row: first one in a suit, reeking of aftershave, then another,
disguised as Labour, so Rosemary foolishly opened her door again.

"He was in jeans and a Fair Isle jersey," said she, and warned him he wouldn't
get anywhere in her road, then the door slammed shut and locked her out, and she
liked Cameron even less. "I don't want another smarmy one who thinks he can
relate to the people," says Rosemary rebelliously. "We've already had one of
those." She prefers bad-tempered.

So does Fielding. Of all three chancellors, he much preferred Darling, because
he looked miserable, which Fielding thought fitting. And anyway, he has to vote
Labour, "even if they're planning to invade China," says he wildly. "My mother
said she'd crawl out of her grave and hit me with a spade if I didn't." And his
grandfather was killed in the first world war. "A lion led by donkeys," says
Fielding, still outraged, and still thinking the workers are "sorely traduced by
balloon-headed toffee-nosed ponces". What? And this is a rational fellow, a
scholarship boy, who broke through class barriers and went to Oxford.

Annoyingly, my friend Toad has moved from Labour to the Lib Dems, because they
were against The War and he's keen on Vince, but Mrs Toad has moved the other
way, from Ukip to Lib Dem. So that evens things out. And I'll vote Labour,
because I always have done, and so did my father. In a deathbed confession, he
admitted that his admiration for Mrs Thatcher, and the pin-ups of her all over
his lavatory, were just a wind-up.

So my survey suggests a fairly desperate clinging to what we have left of the
left. The votes are already cast - more in hearts than minds.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              249 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              April 9, 2010 Friday

Features - Migration not a threat;
Paul Donovan urges new thinking that would take the debate away from negative
mindsets that plague it today

LENGTH: 733 words


The subject of immigration looks set to be a major campaign issue in the general
election campaign.

All of the three main parties seem to be vying with each other as to which can
keep the most people out of the country.

The Conservative Party favours quotas, with a seal on the number of migrants who
can enter from outside the European Union (EU). Critics have highlighted the
impractical nature of this policy for a business that opens or suddenly needs
workers with certain skills. If the quota were full then that business could not
fill its skills gap and could go to the wall. The Conservatives argue that there
will be planning to cover such eventualities but the neoliberal market which the
party so strongly favours does not work that way - it is spontaneous and often
unpredictable.

The Labour Party favours its points system, only letting in workers with certain
skills from beyond the EU. This again is not a favourite with business, which
sees it as potentially putting obstacles in the way of it obtaining the
requisite skills.

A great deal of recent migration has emanated from the mainly east European new
accession countries. It has been the Poles Lithuanians and Slovakians who have
made up much of recent migration, though this has lessened as the economy has
taken a downturn.

The Liberal Democrats favour dispersal of migrants to different parts of the
country, with a points-based regional policy. This also appears somewhat
illogical given that migrants only go to areas where the work exists.

The Liberal Democrats are prepared to let asylum-seekers work while in the
country, something the other two parties oppose.

The far-right parties of UKIP and the British National Party further stoke the
debate on restricting immigration.

The immigration debate generally is a morass of misinformation. The lead-off
point for the debate should be that inward migration has been good for the
economy over the years - it is a positive thing.

All the different migrant groups coming into the UK over recent decades -
including the Irish, the West Indians and Africans, the Asians and east
Europeans - have contributed to the economic well-being and cultural diversity
of the country.

Economically Britain needs migrants. It is a rapidly ageing population, with the
ratio between young and old rapidly changing. University of London academic
David Blake found that there needs to be 500,000 immigrant workers coming to the
UK to retain the pension at its present levels. The alternatives are higher
pension contributions or working longer. The most recent net figure was 163,000
for 2008.

Neither do migrant workers come here to take benefits and jump the housing
queue.

Migrants coming here to work do not qualify for benefits. The economy has
massively benefited from the inflow of east European migrants recently as many
have come to work for a short period, paid taxes and returned home.

The majority are single people who have not received the public services that
their taxes have gone to fund.

The most authoritative study Social Housing Allocation and Immigrant Communities
from the Equality and Human Rights Commission last year found that around 2 per
cent of those taking social housing had been in the country less than five
years. Nine out of 10 people in this form of housing were born in the UK.
Two-thirds of those who arrived within the past five years live in private
rented accommodation.

The migrants in private rented accommodation are often living in what was
council housing before being sold off.

None of these facts effect the myths peddled in much of the right-wing media
about benefits and housing. These myths have also provided the fertile ground
for the BNP and UKIP to exploit. So for example the BNP have been able to
campaign in Barking and Dagenham about migrants taking housing and welfare. It
turns community against community along race lines.

What is required over the election campaign is a proper open debate on
immigration policies. Economic migration needs to be separated from those who
come here seeking asylum having fled their home countries.

What really does need to happen is to move away from this negative mindset that
frames the immigration debate only in terms of reducing the number of people
coming into the country. Immigration is in the main a positive thing for all
concerned, not a threat to anyone's way of life.

- See www.paulfdonovan.blogspot.com.

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              250 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday

GREY MAN JOHN READY TO AVENGE PERMA-TANTONY

BYLINE: BY ANDREW PIERCE

LENGTH: 933 words


THE STORIES THE SPIN DOCTORS DON'T WANT YOU TO READ

FEW post-war prime ministers have made the transition from the pinnacle of power
to the political wilderness with as much integrity and grace as Sir John Major.

This is why the Tories are planning to pitch the 'grey man' against Tony Blair
who, by contrast, has become synonymous with sleaze, lying and deceit.

Blair, with his ludicrous trademark 'non- dom' sun tan and mid-Atlantic accent,
refused to answer media questions when he made his imperious entrance into the
election campaign in his old Sedgefield constituency last week.

Perhaps even Teflon Tony felt some of the mud was finally going to stick after
the revelations about his paid work with an investment consortium led by a South
Korean company with extensive oil interests in Iraq. zI'm reliably informed that
Tory strategists are now rifling through the Party archive to try to find
Major's fabled soap box which he used to such devastating effect in the 1992
General Election, which he won against the odds.

Major, lampooned by Blair's mouthpiece Alastair Campbell for tucking his shirt
into his underpants, is still bitterly angry at the way five years later Labour
portrayed his Tory Party as mired in scandal and corruption and, believe me,
he's the kind of man who doesn't so much bear a grudge as nurture it.

So when he does return to the campaign trail he may just make the point that it
was Blair who took the country into an illegal war; was interviewed by Scotland
Yard over the alleged sale of peerages; and who has hidden his £20 million
fortune amassed since he left office in tax haven countries.

I'm told that Major may be retracing his South London roots and meeting voters
in some key marginal constituencies. But more than anything, he is driven by
taking revenge on Messrs Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.

Just don't mention Edwina Currie.

HELMET HAIR? NOT OUR DAVE . . .

NOW the campaign has begun, David Cameron has been given two police protection
officers for the first time. However, they failed in their first test by keeping
their charge on the right side of road safety campaigners. Cameron cycled to the
Commons for the final Prime Minister's Questions with his helmet dangling from
the handlebars while the police officers had their own headgear firmly in place.

The Tory leader was apparently concerned enough for his safety to go to the
effort of putting on a luminous high-visibility belt despite the fact it was a
bright day. But he clearly places a higher premium on the integrity of his quiff
if there are photographers in the vicinity than setting a good example to other
cyclists.

GORDON DRINKS IN THE SMOOTHIE AMBIENCE

THE PM, who has already gone on the offensive over Cameron's toff background,
attempted to burnish his own 'man of the people' credentials with a visit to
more ordinary people at another ordinary workplaces.

This time he chose the achingly trendy Ealing HQ of the drinks' company Innocent
Smoothies. It was a spin doctor's dream.

Healthy, cool, green, entrepreneurial, and youthful but also very David Cameron.
Local Labour MP Andrew Slaughter went to the same Latymer independent school as
Adam Balon a cofounder of the business. Their school chums included those other
doughty champions of working class values: the actor Hugh Grant (left) and chef
Heston Blumenthal. I wonder if the Cambridge-graduate owners, soya-milking the
photo-opportunities, got round to telling Mr Brown they are moving to Notting
Hill, the home of that other smoothie Ö David Cameron.

A LEADING official in the United Kingdom Independence Party has been boasting on
his website about his work as an 'educational psychologist'. Rob Ager, chairman
of the Liverpool branch, helps 'people develop their knowledge, creative, and
perceptual abilities and philosophicaloutlook'. He offers dozens of '
educational' videos and essays covering topics ranging from 'Subliminal
Messaging in Advertising' to 'Preparing for the Challenges of Globalisation'. In
a variation on the traditional party broadcasts, Ager, whose website carries
Ukip promotional-material, is also featured in films wearing grizzly monster
masks and ghoulish costumes, while whipping women who are bound and gagged. Ager
has now been suspended (presumably upside down in leather in a dungeon?) while
Ukip conducts a formal investigation.

I SPY . . .

AS IF the Tories haven't got enough problems in Scotland where they have only
one solitary MP. Shadow defence secretary Liam Fox stepped off the Tory battle
bus in Edinburgh to declare: 'How nice it is to be in Aberdeen South.' How
reassuring it must be for the Tories that Dr Fox has been handpicked as one of
the Tories' main media performers in the campaign!

CLANGER OF THE DAY

DAVID CAMERON'S 'man of the people' act failed to wash when he met workers at
Warburtons bread factory in Bolton. He revealed he had just bought the must-have
item for every housewife: a breadmaker.

'So far,' the Tory leader said, 'we've only made a bit of a mush with it.' The
response? Some clearly audible mutterings to the effect that typical
'lah-de-dah' Southerners who buy breadmakers will soon put them all out of a
job.

A WELL HUNG PARLIAMENT!

LIBDEM supporters who are looking for their flagship Liberator magazine online
might be surprised at what seems to be a bold rebranding exercise.

For if anyone searches on Google for The Liberator, they are taken to a link for
a company of the same name which says: 'We specialise in foam shapes to aid
love-making. We sell sex furniture for couples intimacy [sic].'

Now we know why the LibDems are so keen on a well hung parliament.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              251 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Candidates with real character will be found beyond the spin;
Voters are just waiting for the right kind of politician to inspire them, says
Benedict Brogan

BYLINE: Benedict Brogan

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1213 words


It takes a particularly sunny disposition to be an optimist about British
politics. It takes even greater reserves of confidence to see the joy in this
general election, not least after a first 48 hours that have produced depressing
levels of skulduggery and dishonesty. If you were looking for a new kind of
politics after a year that has seen the old model dragged through the mud,
tarred, feathered, and run out of town on a rail, then this week cannot have
done much for your morale.

For months Telegraph readers have been eloquent in their frustration at the
standard of debate we are being offered. Since we brought to light the scandal
of MPs' expenses, voters have clamoured for politicians who will speak plainly
and honestly. It is a neat coincidence that polling day will almost coincide
with the anniversary of our first revelations about Cabinet abuses, and that we
will go to the polls at the same time as at least four parliamentarians answer
criminal charges in court.

Yet, despite the talk of reform over the past 12 months, there have been few
obvious signs that politics has reinvented itself. Yes, processes have been
improved to make it more difficult for dishonest people to profit from their
parliamentary expenses, but the way the business is conducted remains as it
always has: a contest between rivals angling for every possible benefit, and
prepared to consider all means to promote their cause or do down that of their
opponent.

Politics in the 21st century remains a dirty business in which advantage is
measured in minutes of air time, column inches and tweets. The Richard Nixon
textbook, with its chapters on ordering 500 pizzas and having them delivered to
one's opponents, is still in circulation. When David Cameron popped up live on
the television screens in the No 10 war room, Gordon Brown's advisers were ready
to shove the Prime Minister out of the door there and then to face the cameras.
The temptation to spike the Tory guns on the first day of the campaign was near
irresistible: would the broadcasters stay with the leader of the Opposition as
he made his election statement? Or switch to Downing Street and leave him
talking to blank screens and a few Tory volunteers? In the end, cooler heads
prevailed. Mr Cameron was allowed his moment.

Nor is it one-sided. The Conservatives were pleased as punch with themselves for
getting some guys to stand in Trafalgar Square and hold a large Vote for Change
placard over their heads as Mr Brown drove by on his way to the Palace. It was a
neat piece of product placement for the helicopter cameras, but hardly worthy of
the Midlothian campaign. If either of these admittedly minor examples of
political trickery offends you, you are not alone. A nation preoccupied by big
strategic issues has less appetite than ever for the tactical deviousness
parties are addicted to.

But just when things are at their darkest there are reasons to cheer. Look
carefully enough, and there is evidence that politics is, in fact, going the
right way. The painful exposure Parliament was subjected to has had a positive
effect not just on those who aspire to represent us, but on we the voters as
well. I hold to the hope that far from being turned off by politics, the British
electorate has re-discovered an appetite for the fray. Our apathy has been
shaken off and our interest has been revived - not just by the Telegraph's
revelations, but by the closeness of the contest at hand.

My evidence is patchy, I admit, picked up from conversations with MPs and
candidates in the past few weeks who report a keenness on the doorstep from
voters who are ready to get stuck in and are merely waiting for the right kind
of politician to come along. Party affiliation may now be a downright
disadvantage for those courting votes. But those who can present themselves as
independents, either in name or in spirit, willing to stand against homogeneity
or the diktats of London power brokers, will have the upper hand.

Take Antony Calvert in Morley and Outwood, the new Yorkshire constituency being
defended by Ed Balls. Mr Calvert is a Tory, but his pitch is local - he was born
and raised there - and is aligned with the thriving tradition of Morley Borough
Independents, so much so that a prominent one came out of retirement to back his
campaign. His candidacy is part of a wider movement to seize the council from
Labour. His fundraising video evoking the defeat of Michael Portillo has been an
unlikely hit. His tone is authentic, and has helped him tap into local
resentments against Mr Balls. When he introduces himself at Labour doors, he is
invited in for a cup of tea. The bookies predict an upset.

Then go south, to Barking in east London, where Nick Griffin of the BNP is
staging a test campaign in a seat where his party has made inroads into the
council. Far from conceding, the sitting Labour MP, Margaret Hodge, has
re-positioned herself. Once an archetype of metropolitan New Labour lovery, she
has kept the party tag but since the wake-up call of the BNP advance in 2001 her
style has been that of the independent local champion, aligning the community
against the racists.

West next, to Buckingham, where the convention that the main parties do not
contest the Speaker's seat has left it to others to try to unseat John Bercow.
Nigel Farage, lately leader of Ukip, has got the publicity but his pitch
collapses when voters are reminded that his party is the only one so far to have
had MEPs jailed for expenses fraud.

Those who want to turf out Mr Bercow for his less than satisfactory expenses
arrangements can turn instead to John Stevens, a former Tory MEP, who is
standing on a straight throw-the-bum-out ticket. Tories fear his candidacy will
split the vote and let Mr Farage in, which is richly ironic given that Mr
Stevens is squealingly pro-European. Buckingham may be too deferential to seize
the opportunity, but here again is a contest where independent-minded originals
are giving voters a chance to kick against politics as usual.

There is no shortage of such examples: Caroline Lucas of the Greens is
challenging Labour in Brighton Pavilion, Esther Rantzen wants to restore dignity
to Luton South after the shame of Margaret Moran, and so on around the country
where voters will scan the lists for candidates who show authenticity, a keen
sense of what is local, and a willingness to stand against the pull of London.

It is an evolution that has been happening quietly elsewhere. In the devolved
assemblies, for example, it is the originals, the characters, who have thrived -
Alex Salmond in Edinburgh, Rhodri Morgan in Wales, even Ian Paisley in Belfast -
rather than the slick, manufactured politicians who look and sound as if they
have come straight from the PR factory.

If David Cameron gets in, he may be just in time. Another Parliament and the
tide will have gone out on those whose career was always only politics and spin.
Yes, there is a straight choice between Cameron and Brown. But if what you see
on your screen troubles you, look beyond for the authentic, independent voices,
many sporting party colours, some not, who have been listening to your anger.
They are out there, and they are a reason not to despair.

Comment on Benedict Brogan's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              252 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Departing shots;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uk telegraph.co.uk/mandrake
Election2010

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 108 words


The Liberal Democrats seem proud that one of their candidates, Anna Arrowsmith,
makes pornographic films.

But the "fruitcakes" and "loonies" of the UK Independence Party - as described
by David Cameron - appear less tolerant of such eccentricity. Ukip has suspended
its chairman in Liverpool, Rob Ager, after discovering that he starred in,
directed and produced films featuring scenes of bondage, incarceration and
flagellation.

The films, which depicted women being tortured, were sold on his website, where
he had posted promotional messages for Ukip. It is not known whether Ager, who
is a parliamentary candidate, is filming his party's campaign.

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              253 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday

Diary: Talented, glamorous but dogged by trouble. A French liaison Jack Straw
can do without

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 644 words


?So much to look forward to over the next four weeks, and here's a question to
be eagerly debated on both sides of the Channel. Will Rachida Dati - once the
rising star of the Sarkozy administration, now estranged by the movers and
shakers - make good on her promise to fight for the re-election of the justice
minister, Jack Straw? It was just six months ago that, schmoozing with Jack at
the British Embassy in Paris, she promised to hit the campaign trail in the
north-west. She made a trip to Jack's constituency in February when the two
addressed issues such as the wearing of the veil. But these days Dati (pictured)
does seem to be on a downward spiral. She long ago ceased to be the justice
minister, serving instead as a seemingly disconsolate MEP. Last week, according
to an influential French magazine, she was stripped of her official car,
chauffeur, three bodyguards and smartphone by a president who apparently blames
her for starting rumours about the state of his marriage. On Tuesday she
formally denied responsibility for the rumour-mongering and threatened to sue
her accusers. Would Jack Straw want to import her enduring difficulties into
what already seems a tricky race in Blackburn? Why would he?

?Let us remind ourselves of what Paul Wiffen, London chairman of Ukip and
prospective parliamentary candidate for Ilford South, posted on the
communitycare.co.uk website on the subject of asylum. "Britain is full, you
prat! Even your scummy, illiterate Grauniad admits it! In the circumstances, I
think 'get lost' is positively polite. 'Go forth and multiply' elsewhere would
be my wording." There was more. "You left-wing scum are all the same, wanting to
hand our birthright to Romanian gypsies who beat their wives and children into
begging and stealing money they can gamble with, Muslim nutters who want to kill
us and put us all under mediaeval Sharia law, the same Africans who sold their
Afro-Caribbean brothers into a slavery that Britain was the first to abolish
(but you still want to apologize for!). Worry about where we are going to live
and grow food, you wanker, not the UKIP policy that might just save your
worthless skin!." And let us now consider that, after professing outrage and
suspending him last Thursday, Ukip has performed an extraordinary U-turn, so
that Wiffen is once again its London chairman and prospective parliamentary
candidate for Ilford South. What does that tell us about Ukip?

?But then strange things happen. Labour portrays David Cameron as a racist,
sexist, homophobic DCI Gene Hunt from TV's Life on Mars, and Tory activists
couldn't be more delighted. What next? Gordon Brown as Phil Mitchell from
EastEnders? Nick Clegg as Dr Who? Sadly, no. Because a rattled BBC has reacted
to the Life on Mars poster row by writing to all the parties reminding them that
its fictional characters are not to be used for politics and subject to
copyright. No Nick Griffin as Alf Garnett. Shame.

?And hardly a surprise that Clegg is saying a plague on both the Labour and Tory
houses. One day he may make a deal. In the meantime, scorn is his best tactic.
But as he complains about the same "old parties" running the country for the
past 65 years, he should know that another anti-establishment figure tried to
rack up a few votes using exactly that phraseology. No kudos in following Oswald
Mosely.

?Finally, though trouble seems to follow her, the news is good for our friend
Pat Arrowsmith, the 80-year-old poet and veteran peacenik. Despite a chilling
Notice to Quit from the tough types at Haringey council, sense has prevailed and
Pat learns that she will not now be rendered homeless. She says we can take some
credit. And this is all for the best, for was it not Haringey that once elevated
our Pat to the status of "unsung hero". This week's Arrowsmith crisis ends
happily. On to the next.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              254 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UKIP ban for S&M film boss

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 92 words


A TOP UKIP politician has been suspended after starring in films showing bound
women being tortured and humiliated. Rob Ager, 35, also directs the
sado-masochistic movies which he peddles on the internet. In some he wears
monster masks while whipping gagged women. Party chiefs have now removed him
from his post as chairman of their Liverpool branch.

Ager calls himself an educational psychologist and claims he helps "people
develop creative and perceptual abilities". He said: "I put a lot of intelligent
material into the scripts. It's pretty tame."

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Masks... Rob Ager

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              255 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Gordon Brown isn't cut out to be leader;
READERS GET ON OUR SOAPBOX

BYLINE: GRAEME DONOHOE; SHEANNE MULHOLLAND

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 603 words


ROLL UP, roll up! Make sure your voice is heard by getting on The Scottish Sun's
special General Election soapbox.

We're giving you - the hard-pressed electorate - the chance to sound off and
vent your views on the race for Number 10. So if you think Brown's a clown or
Cameron's a moron then pick up our loudhailer, stand on the soapbox, and shout
it loud.

GRAEME DONOHOE and SHEANNE MULHOLLAND found that voters were queuing up to be
heard in Glasgow's George Square yesterday - a day after Prime Minster Gordon
Brown officially called the May 6 poll ...

DANCE teacher JULIE ANDREW is a floating voter. The 55-year-old, from
Helensburgh, Dunbartonshire, said: "I used to be a Conservative voter but I was
quite impressed by Labour and voted for them at the last election.

"I really liked Gordon Brown as Chancellor, but I've been far from convinced
that he is cut out to be leader of the country.

"The most important factor in getting my vote will be someone actually knocking
on my door and explaining their policies the old-fashioned way.

"I want someone to come and tell me what their ideas are for my local area. I
want them to impress me."

Retired printer STEVEN BIRO, 87, from Rutherglen, hopes Labour get in because of
their support for OAPs.

The Vienna-born former British PoW clambered up onto our soapbox with his
walking stick.

He said: "I hope Labour get in because they have done more for pensioners.
Margaret Thatcher was a disgrace."

But he added: "I hope Labour get in because they are the best of a bad bunch,
but I won't be voting.

"The expenses scandal has left me sickened."

Automotive engineering student KEVIN KELLY, 20, from Helensburgh,
Dunbartonshire, screamed: "Vote SNP - the only party that has Scotland in mind.
All Labour and the Conservatives care about is middle England.

"I study in London and it annoys me that Scottish students going down to England
have to stay on the Scottish register. It means that my student loan is a tenth
of what English students get. I'm a second-class citizen down there and don't
get the money that they get."

Swithering Alex Salmond lookalike STEPHEN LEPITAK, 29, from Glasgow, screamed:
"I can't believe I'm thinking about voting Conservative.

"All my friends joke that my dad's Alex Salmond so they think I'm certain to be
voting SNP.

"It's difficult to be put on the spot like this because I thought I had another
month to decide.

"David Cameron's finally given the Tories a leader that I think Scottish people
might vote for again.

"I don't believe everything he tells us but I could be swayed yet."

Marine Engineering student ROB CHAPLIN, 22, from Glasgow, rapped: "If you're a
student, don't vote Conservative. Repeat, do NOT vote Tory.

"Voting for the party with the most good policies is too hard. It's more a case
of voting for the one with the least crap policies.

"I think UKIP will probably get my vote as they talk a lot more sense than
Cameron or Brown."

Disillusioned retail worker CLAIRE BALCH, 41, from Glasgow, said: "I have lost
interest in the election. I feel like all the parties are saying the same thing
and have the same promises but none of them are doing anything.

"I don't think any of them are looking after our interests and if they are going
to get my vote then they have to convince me that they will look after our
needs."

Our General Election soapbox will be touring the country so you can get your
opinions on the parties off your chest - watch out for more details in your
Scottish Sun.

'Do NOT vote Tory if you're a student' ROB CHAPLIN

'All the parties are saying the same thing' CLAIRE BALCH

'Labour are the best of a bad bunch' STEVEN BIRO

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OPEN DOOR POLICY ... Julie wants party candidates to call round and
talk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              256 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 8, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

They're still standing

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30,31

LENGTH: 588 words


The MPs Jacqui Smith Lab, Redditch Majority: 2,163. Chance of holding seat: 18%
Hazel Blears Lab, Salford & Eccles Majority: 10,707. Chance of holding seat: 82%
John Bercow The Speaker, Buckingham Majority: 18,716. Chance of holding seat:
69% RichardYounger-Ross LD, Teignbridge (Newton Abbot) Majority: 4,830. Chance
of holding seat: 53% Alan Duncan C, Rutland & Melton Majority: 12,998. Chance of
winning: 91% Liam Fox C, Woodspring Majority: 6,007. Chance of winning: 91% Tony
McNulty Lab, Harrow East Majority: 2,934. Chance of holding seat: 33% Ann Keen
Lab, Brentford &Isleworth Majority: 3,633. Chance of holding seat: 22% Expenses
Claimed for two pornographic films that her husband admitted watching. Said her
main residence was a spare room in her sister's house Claimed for "second homes"
in a single year. Did not pay capital gains tax on £45,000 profit from sale of
flat despite telling authorities it was second home Flipped second home from
constituency to £540,000 London flat. Twice claimed for accountant to complete
tax return.

Paid £6,508 plus VAT to cover the CGT Charged taxpayers more than £1,200 for
mirrors to furnish his London flat, for a £1,000 stereo system and a bookcase
called the Don Juan Millionaire MP claimed expenses for £75,000 "orangery"
extension and thousands more on gardening at second home Expenses: was overpaid
£22,476.03 for mortgage interest Claimed £60,000 for expenses for constituency
home where his parents live while he lived only ten miles away Together with
husband Alan, Labour MP for Feltham &Heston, claimed almost £40,000 a year on
London flat. Family home was only ten miles away Defence Said that her family
was based in her constituency as "I took the decision which was best for my
kids, to be where they grew up" Former Communities Secretary said: "I have
complied with the rules of the House, the rules of the Inland Revenue and that's
the situation as it is" "If there was a mistake, either by my accountant or by
me, and any liability is due, I shall pay it with interest and without delay, as
I have always paid" "What I did not at the time consider to be luxury items, and
what the House of Commons did not advise me were luxury items, clearly now are"
"Everything I have claimed has been legitimate and approved by the [House of
Commons] fees office" The Shadow Defence Secretary said the fees office agreed
the claims were permissible. "I feel vindicated that I acted at all times in
good faith" Said that he still used the house regularly, especially at weekends
The couple, nicknamed Mr and Mrs Expenses, have been reluctant to discuss their
claims Outcome Voluntarily repaid £1,469.87 for claiming for garden furniture
and overclaimed clearing costs Volunteered to pay the £13,332 capital gains and
repaid £445 for a glass shelving unit, which exceeded the guideline price Did
not prevent him being elected Speaker. Faces challenge from Nigel Farage, MEP,
the former UKIP leader Handed back £6,352.01 he received in expenses payments,
nearly twice the amount being demanded by the expenses auditor Sir Thomas Legg
Demoted from Shadow Leader of the House after complaining that MPs were being
"forced to live on rations" One of five MPs who lost appeal against the decision
of Sir Thomas Legg that he should repay disputed expenses Parliamentary
standards committee asked him to apologise to the House of Commons and repay
£13,837. Resigned as Employment Minister Couple voluntarily repaid a total of
£750 for breaching limit on cleaning bill for the flat

LOAD-DATE: April 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              257 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday

THE OSTRICH ELECTION

BYLINE: BY MAX HASTINGS

LENGTH: 1957 words


NEITHER POLITICAL PARTY WILL TELL THE TRUTH. AND VOTERS DESPERATE TO BELIEVE
THERE'S A PAINLESS SOLUTION TO OUR CATASTROPHIC PROBLEMS ARE BURYING THEIR HEADS
IN THE SAND

FOR the vast majority of the British people, the election choice is simple: to
try to bear more of Brown, to give Cameron a chance or to throw their toys out
of the pram.

On May 6, each of us will nominally choose a mere constituency MP. Some people
will vote Lib Dem, Scottish or Welsh Nationalist, even -- heaven help us -- for
UKIP or the BNP.

Others will show their disgust with all politicians by staying at home. By
abstaining or backing a fringe party, they opt to take no part in deciding who
rules this country for the next four years.

This is a great pity, for what is at stake is so important.

In this election, there is to be the biggest cleansing of the Commons since
1945, sweeping out hundreds of veteran MPs, including those most disgraced by
the expenses scandal, and introducing new blood. And the nation's choice of
leader will decide whether the economic shambles created by Labour is addressed
with conviction or, indeed, addressed at all.

Whether we like it or not, Britain's governance has become presidential.
Parliament exercises decreasing power, while prime ministers wield ever more.
Almost all of the decisions that change our lives are made in Downing Street. We
are close to an elective dictatorship.

In 29 days' time, voters will make a choice between Gordon Brown and David
Cameron -- as stark a choice as that for Americans last year, when they chose
between John McCain and Barack Obama.

We must judge Cameron on his personality, but Brown's record is there for all to
see. The most important health warning of this campaign is: do not listen to
what Brown says; instead, remember what he has done.

A few years ago, Labour's three terms merely seemed a historic missed
opportunity. Today, it is plain that the party has delivered a catastrophe.

Blair and Brown -- for as Labour's Chancellor he wielded more power than any
predecessor -- took office in 1997, on the eve of a protracted boom which gave
the Government billions of our tax money to spend on remaking a Britain fit for
the 21st century.

Sure enough, they have spent. Cash has poured into hospitals and schools, tax
credits for the poor, the Millennium Dome, accessible arts for the masses,
devolution for Scotland and Wales, heal th and safet y nannyism for all, a
tsunami of regulation and 600,000 new state jobs -- real and invented -- for
Labour supporters and clients.

State workers' pay has been boosted so dramatically that it has overtaken the
private sector. Blair was re- elected twice because none of this largesse seemed
to hurt anyone. Most of the country felt well-off, and Brown's stealth taxes
were skilfully contrived to ensure that pain was felt only slowly.

But gradually the smoke and dust has cleared from the great social building site
of Labour Britain. We see that, for all the billions lavished on health,
patients have profited less than doctors, nurses, drug companies and
bureaucrats. The rail system has suffered partial re-nationalisation.

Brown's flagship tax credits have proved a bonanza for fraudsters, but created
few real jobs and done nothing to narrow the poverty gap.

Private finance initiatives have dramatically increased Exchequer liabilities,
while hiding the cost from the official debt figures.

Torrents of taxpayers' money have yielded nothing but deterioration in schools
and universities. Millions more children receive top exam grades. Graduates are
showered with first-class honours. The exam system has been shamelessly skewed
to provide passes for even semi-literate teenagers.

Most of the country understands the huge deceit at the heart of New Labour.
Blair, Brown, Peter Mandelson and Alastair Campbell were not in the business of
solving problems or raising standards. Labour never discovered how to get real
things done.

Downing Street has sought only to create stage trickery -- synthetic breasts --
to make things look good. Everyone must seem to win, and everyone must get
prizes. Results have been massaged, cash double-counted, targets and outcomes
falsified. The civil service has been politicised as never before. Every
Whitehall spokesman has been made a tool of Labour ' s propaganda machine.

In the Blair-Brown universe, telling the truth is a sackable offence. Dr David
Kelly, the government scientist who leaked some of the facts about Saddam
Hussein's lack of weapons of mass destruction to the BBC, took his own life with
Downing Street's dogs at his heels.

But beyond the moral corruption, there is the cash corruption. New Labour has
sold its soul for a far higher price than Conservative MPs ever extracted for
theirs back in the Nineties.

Peerages and favours have been exchanged for massive donations to party funds.
Labour leaders and MPs alike have hawked privileged access to the highest
bidders.

David Blunkett was forced to resign as Home Secretary for fast-tracking an entry
visa for his mistress's nanny.

Even when Peter Mandelson was driven from ministerial office, Blair sent him to
Brussels as an EU Commissioner -- where he became the intimate of Russian
oligarchs and anyone else rich enough to show him a good time.

In a final bizarre twist, Brown has made Mandelson his viceroy, ennobling him in
the ignoble Lords. But worse in its consequences has been Labour's policy of
uncontrolled immigration. During each year of Blair and Brown, Britain's
population has grown by more than 100,000 people -- heedless of the wishes of
the native inhabitants.

New Labour sought to change irreversibly the character of this island, to build
a multicultural society. Part of the price we are paying for this is that London
has become the global capital of jihad -- violent Muslim radicalism.

This, in turn, has done grave injury to personal liberties. Today, in the name
of combating terror and crime, every British citizen suffers surveillance on an
unprecedented scale.

Labour has passed more laws, most of them to stop us doing thing s , than any
othe r government in peace- time history. Blair's misconceived and mismanaged
wars derived from his pretensions to statesmanship and his infatuated
relationship with George W. Bush.

Brown made his own mute protest by the supremely cynical expedient of refusing
to properly fund and equip our Armed Forces to fight on the battlefield. The
cost of these policies has been paid in blood, cash and international respect.

And so to Gordon Brown as Prime Minister. So great was the nation's relief when
Blair quit that there were brief hopes for his successor. Brown seemed, at the
very least, a decent and honest man.

But that was three years ago, an eternity in the national experience.

In that interval, our supposed national prosperity -- the central plank of New
Labour rule since 1997 -- has collapsed, exposing timber rotten to the heart.
Brown's trumpeted achievement as Blair ' s Chancellor has been shown to be sham.
His bosom friend Prudence lies discarded in the gutter.

In Brown's fantasy years, he spent billions. But Britain was not real ly
earning. When the crash came, not only were the banks bust, so, too, was the
Exchequer.

Even going by Alastai r Darling's own figures, national debt is scheduled to
double to 61.4 trillion by 2014-15, requiring interest payments of 663 billion a
year. The reality is likely to be worse.

But there is more. Blair and Brown have evaded all of the tough strategic
choices.

State workers' lavish pensions have not been curbed, while their cost soars. No
proper provision has been made to fund care for the elderly. Labour has chosen
to build uneconomic wind farms rather than essential nuclear power stations.
Defence commitments bear no relationship to budgets.

Brown has achieved a remarkable double. He has presided over disaster twice --
first as steward of the nation's finances, then as prime minister.

It is a measure of his absolute psychological unfitness for his role that, to
this day, he admits nothing of his own failure.

With such a 13-year record, only a man of almost demented hubris would dare
propose himself to continue as Britain's prime minister.

Yet neither David Cameron, nor George Osborne, dares to tell Britain just how
bad things really are. The great Conservative difficulty as this election
campaign begins is that millions of voters are impersonating ostriches.

They cling to the hope that some party will offer a way out of our fearsome
fiscal crunch that will not hurt.

That is how Labour sustains support, rooted in its huge vote of state employees
and dependents. That is why George Osborne feels obl iged to promise a sweetener
-- to cut Darling's planned National Insurance rise.

But the Tories are paying for not talking tough. Many voters -- the realists who
know what needs doing -- say they cannot see what Cameron offers.

They accuse him of surfing the breakers of sentiment against Brown, rather than
showing a way forward.

Conservative MPs were almost as tarnished as Labour's by the Commons expenses
scandal. Cameron shocked many people by refusing to sack Lord Ashcroft as party
deputy chairman when it was revealed he had betrayed the shoddy little deal he
made for his peerage.

No man should be empowered to pull political levers in Britain when his heart is
in tax-free Belize -- with his money.

But these issues seem marginal alongside the central challenge of making Britain
work again. Much of the public yearns for leadership, direction, inspiration,
competent government and a war on waste.

Cameron has shown a lot of skill in adapting to popular moods. Now he needs to
also shape them.

He must generate excitement, offer a vision of hope at the end of the Via
Dolorosa we must tread for the next few years.

When the British people finally opened the door of the glitzy film set Labour
had created, all they found was a weed-strewn vacant lot.

Blair was exposed as a mere actor, pretending to be one of us. Brown has never
seemed an inhabitant of planet Earth.

Their only substantial achievement is to have sustained themselves in power for
13 years.

Cameron, in contrast, seems a real human being with a deep commi tment to Br i
tain, together with the steel and abilities to become a formidable prime
minister. It would ill become those of us who are relatively old to mistrust the
Tory team because they are relatively young. Brains, energy and ideas are what
matter. Who seriously suggests that Labour can provide these things ?

Cameron is a realist who offers change. Another term of Brown, the incurable
fantasist, could yield only a continuing flight from reality.

I know a couple in London, one of whom has always voted Labour, the other Lib
Dem. This time, both will back the Tories. Whatever the risks, they are
desperate to see a new political beginning.

Millions of people -- most of those who are not clients of the bloated Labour
state machine -- share their aspiration. We cannot go on as we are.

In 31 years since 1979, with Tories and Labour ruling successively for 18 years
and then 13 years, we have grown accustomed to long eras of oneparty governance.

Yet these are unnatural. They are bound to end, as has this one, in stagnation,
exhaustion and failure. Political change is not only good, it is essential to a
healthy democracy.

If Cameron is untried, he is also untarnished. He bears no blame for the
disaster Labour has created. I believe he has the courage to do difficult
things.

The next government will disappoint our highest hopes, because every government
does. We all share fears for the future -- including a Tory future. But consider
the alternative. Think of Labour's record.

If you spurn the Tories, you get more Brown. Cameron has earned the opportunity
to show what he can do.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              258 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday

ALL WE KNOW IS THAT WE DON'T KNOW

BYLINE: BY ANDREW ALEXANDER

LENGTH: 832 words


The only certainty is uncertainty. This will prove the least predictable
election in modern times -- not that this will stop pollsters and their
followers regularly forecasting the result with an air of great precision. This
or that percentage Tory lead will mean such-and-such a majority, or perhaps no
majority at all.

But this is not that sort of election. The broadcasters' swingometer is set for
obsolescence since we can expect exceptional variation between seats. The new
factor is the Parliamentary expenses scandal and the public outrage, which shows
little signs of dying down.

Many of the MPs who are standing again -- inevitably more Labour than Tories --
will have their records thrown in their face.

It will need only a relatively small number of their normal supporters to switch
or stay at home on this issue alone to overturn a seat.

To add to this threat, MPs are also likely to face a clutch of simple ' anti -
corruption' candidates, perhaps hoping to repeat the success of Martin Bell, who
overturned the massive Tory majority at Tatton in 1997.

Admittedly, Labour and the Liberals cunningly withdrew their candidates to help
oust Neil hamilton, accused of 'sleaze'.

But if Bell could capture public indignation about those allegations, many may
wish to emulate him on the greater rip-off by MPs on their personal expenses.

In addition, minor parties are lining up as never before -- Greens, UKIP, BNP,
Sottish Nationalists, Welsh Nationalists, perhaps even Cornish Nationalists.
Northern Ireland will help the confusion.

ANd we shall probably see some one-issue candidates: 'Save our local hospital',
'Build the bypass now (or don't build it)' -- that sort of thing. These can
appeal strongly to voters who no longer care for any parties.

The view is commonly heard that voters are so disgusted with politics that they
will not turn out. But that would be illogical if voters are offered candidates
catering to every view or whim. disgust is likely to find a voice, not silence.

A hung, sprawl ing, untidy parliament? Quite possibly. But its supposed
inability to provide a lasting government remains questionable.

As we saw with the Callaghan government, all sorts of minority party candidates
can somehow find a reason -- usually their own survival -- to keep an
administration going for a long time, despite its unpopularity and failures.

And so to the economy, the issue on which the parties will say the most and tell
you the least. It is all very well to agree that there will have to be serious
cuts in public spending. Any fool can see that. however, we are left to guess
how big or where. The parties are happy to declare or hint at what they will not
cut. But that is as far as it goes.

Whoever becomes Chancellor -- once he has gone through the business of
consulting and misleading voters -- will have to consult an even more important
and less easily misled electorate, our creditors.

They are the buyers of government bonds, from far and wide, on whom years of
profligate spending have left us massively dependant.

From their point of view, it matters little whether the annual deficit and thus
the total outstanding debt is curbed by taxes or cuts. But they realise that the
Government has a problem.

OUr recovery is fragile, whatever Gordon Brown may claim. A rise in general
taxation would be a disaster -- no economic growth, no rise in tax revenues,
another rise in the deficit.

Chancellor Alistair darling no doubt understands this. You cannot be so sure
about Brown, who is inclined to live in a world of his own.

Nevertheless, we will be left with the extreme urgency of cuts. Since government
employs half the labour force in the country, this makes retrenchment easier in
theory yet possibly harder in practice. The civil service unions are extensive
and well organised, and may come out in force.

Well, let them! Their paymasters, the taxpayers, will have little sympathy. And
if that can lead to tax cuts, the path to economic recovery will prove swifter.

The Tories have gone so far as to promise to repeal the prospective rise in
National Insurance.

This has gained more traction than I expected, since there is little surprise in
businessmen calling loudly for cuts in a business tax. But it unveils the right
sort of approach.

If the Tories were really determined to improve the prospect for reducing
unemployment, one of the best moves would be to cut the minimum wage. The logic
of this is irrefutable.

That would, however, demand considerable courage and stir a lot of anxiety. They
could, by contrast, slash the minimum wage for new employment.

It would have a swift effect and generate some tax revenue. But perhaps we
should not expect such radical thought this side of a nervously fought election.

One declaration that will stick in many throats is Gordon Brown's on the lessons
he learnt from his oldfashioned parents. The idea of a clergyman -- and a
Scottish one at that -- encouraging a son to be a profligate spender is
stretching the imagination too far.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              259 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WHO'LL WIN..GIVE US A CLUEDO!;
Battle for No.10 is on the cards

BYLINE: GARY NICKS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 460 words


SO will it be David Cameron, with the most votes, in Number 10? Or will Brown's
last roll of the dice see him sweep the board?

Here GARY NICKS looks at the six main party leaders.

And he tries to give you a Cluedo to who will have the winning hand come May 6.

STRENGTHS: Proud of steering us through the crunch with global deal to bail out
banks. WEAKNESSES: But as Chancellor, he was in charge of the economy for 10
years before being PM - so he got us into this mess!

WOBBLY MOMENT: If he doesn't win, he may start lobbing mobile phones around
Downing Street and refuse to leave!

SECRET WEAPON: His wife Sarah Brown, 46. In the past when Gord has been in
trouble, she has stood by him and turned on the charm.

STRENGTHS: He's a great talker and sounds like he has a passion to change
Britain.

WEAKNESSES: Voters could be put off by his toff image. He's always jogging and
cycling. Does this man ever go to the pub?

WOBBLY MOMENT: His claim to love beer and darts (he apparently likes a four-pack
of Guinness at home) caused howls of laughter.

SECRET WEAPON: Wife Samantha or "Sam-Cam". The couple have announced she is
expecting again. Very crafty Dave!

STRENGTHS: In the event of a hung parliament, he could become powerful as a
"kingmaker" if no party wins an overall majority.

WEAKNESSES: Voters see the Lib Dems as untested.

WOBBLY MOMENT: He once bragged to having 30 ex-lovers. We bet his wife Miriam
was chuffed about that!

SECRET WEAPON: The expenses scandal. The LibDems escaped with their reputation
intact so Clegg could pick up protest votes.

STRENGTHS: Griffin and his Far Right henchmen hope to strike a chord with this
simple policy: halt the tide of immigration and deport all illegals.

WEAKNESSES: The BNP will forever be tarnished with a racist tag.

WOBBLY MOMENT: Griffin's appearance on the BBC's Question Time backfired.

SECRET WEAPON: Paranoia. Will folk slip into the privacy of that voting booth on
polling day and put a crafty cross next to the party?

STRENGTHS: A vote for UKIP means one thing - you want out of Europe and to slam
the door shut on immigrants.

WEAKNESSES: They face a David and Goliath battle to convince voters they can
govern the country.

WOBBLY MOMENT: When Nigel Farage, 46, stepped down in November, the party kissed
goodbye to their only known politician.

SECRET WEAPON: Immigration. This is a key election subject and a vote winner.

STRENGTHS: It has to be climate change for these guys. The Greens could land
their first seat in Parliament, with Brighton candidate Caroline Lucas the most
likely winner.

WEAKNESSES: Surely we can't hand them the keys to Downing Street, can we?

WOBBLY MOMENT: The party has never done enough to shake off its image as
tree-huggers.

SECRET WEAPON: Hey, we don't do weapons man - we're the Greens, remember.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              260 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

WHO'LL WIN..GIVE US A CLUEDO!;
Battle for votes is on the cards

BYLINE: GARY NICKS

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 444 words


SO will it be David Cameron, with the most votes, in Number 10? Or will Brown's
last roll of the dice see him sweep the board?

Here GARY NICKS looks at six of party leaders.

And he tries to give you a Cluedo to who will have the upper hand come Friday
May 7.

STRENGTHS: Proud of steering us through the crunch with global deal to bail out
banks.

WEAKNESSES: But as Chancellor, he was in charge of the economy for 10 years
before being PM - so did he get us into this mess?

WOBBLY MOMENT: If he doesn't win, he may start lobbing mobile phones around
Downing Street and refuse to leave!

SECRET WEAPON: His wife Sarah Brown, 46. In the past when Gord has been in
trouble, she has stood by him and turned on the charm.

STRENGTHS: The SNP have managed to keep a minority government running - and may
hold balance of power in a hung Parliament.

WEAKNESSES: Undermined by some budget problems which forced them to ditch some
of their key policies.

WOBBLY MOMENT: Letting the Lockerbie Bomber go free.

SECRET WEAPON: Salmond himself - a brilliant media performer who will be in his
element during the election campaign.

STRENGTHS: In the event of a hung parliament, he could become a "kingmaker" if
no party wins an overall majority.

WEAKNESSES: Voters see the Lib Dems as untested.

WOBBLY MOMENT: He once bragged to having 30 ex-lovers. We bet his wife Miriam
was chuffed about that!

SECRET WEAPON: The expenses scandal. The LibDems escaped with their reputation
intact so Clegg could pick up protest votes.

STRENGTHS: He's a great talker and sounds like he at least has passion.

WEAKNESSES: Voters could be put off by his posh image. He's always jogging and
cycling. Does this man ever go to the pub?

WOBBLY MOMENT: His claim to love beer and darts (he apparently likes a four-pack
of Guinness at home) caused howls of laughter.

SECRET WEAPON: Wife Samantha or "Sam-Cam". The couple have announced that she is
pregnant.

STRENGTHS: A vote for UKIP means one thing - you want out of Europe and to slam
the door shut on immigrants.

WEAKNESSES: They face a David and Goliath battle to convince Scots voters they
can appeal to us.

WOBBLY MOMENT: When Nigel Farage, 46, stepped down in November, the party kissed
goodbye to their only known face.

SECRET WEAPON: Immigration. This is a key election subject in England.

S

STRENGTHS: It has to be climate change for these guys. The Greens could land
their first seat in Parliament, with Caroline Lucas the most likely winner.

WEAKNESSES: Surely we can't hand them the keys to Downing Street, can we?

WOBBLY MOMENT: The party has never done enough to shake off its image as
tree-huggers.

SECRET WEAPON: Hey, we don't do weapons man - we're the Greens, remember.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              261 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ask your own questions for TV debates;
TV CLASHES

BYLINE: Andrew Porter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1705 words


QUESTIONS from the public will be put to the three party leaders in Britain's
first live television election debates. The first debate will take place in
Manchester on Thursday next week, with others in Bristol and Birmingham on
successive Thursdays, it was announced yesterday.

After months of negotiations between the BBC, ITV and Sky and party officials,
the rules for the events have been set. All eventually agreed that members of
the audience should be allowed to put questions directly to the party leaders.

Viewers are being asked to submit questions in advance online or by email. The
final decision on which questions will be posed will be made by the
broadcasters. Most of the 200-strong audience will be picked by pollsters from
the local area to ensure a balance of gender, age, ethnicity, social class. The
Conservatives fought to ensure the venues of the three events were not in areas
which are sympathetic to Labour.

ITV will host the first debate, which will focus on domestic affairs on April
15. The Sky News debate on foreign affairs will take place on April 22 and BBC
One will screen its 90-minute clash on the economy on April 29.

Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader, will open the first debate, Gordon
Brown will open the second and David Cameron the third. Mr Cameron has admitted
that he is nervous and knows that he is taking a risk.

Traditionally those party leaders with a healthy advantage in the polls have
resisted the temptation to put themselves in the position of a possible last
minute slip-up in front of millions.

Tony Blair refused to debate with John Major in 1997. Mr Cameron has a
particular fear that Nick Clegg, whose Liberal Democrat Party is the biggest
challenger to the Tories in many parts of the country, could get an easy ride.
Conservative strategists watched the chancellors' debate on Channel 4 last week
and noted how Vince Cable, the Lib Dem representative, appeared to be running
the debate and went largely unchallenged. Mr Cameron and Mr Brown cannot afford
to let that happen with Mr Clegg.

Mr Brown, conscious that he needs to overcome his often poor record on broadcast
media, is investing a lot of time in preparing for the debates. His advisers
claim that while Mr Cameron, a proven media performer, is expected to do well,
the expectation for Mr Brown is lower. He will have been encouraged by an
improvement this year in his weekly jousts with the Tory leader at Prime
Minister's Questions.

Mr Cameron's ease in front of cameras and ability to think quickly on his feet
should ensure that he does not trip up and scupper his chances on the back of
these performances. Polls show that as many as 60 per cent of voters could make
up their mind on the back of the debates.

Telegraph jury Time for readers to have their say

At the height of the MPs' expenses scandal last year, The Daily Telegraph's
readers made themselves heard in unprecedented numbers. We received thousands of
letters a day from people angered by MPs who abused their trust and passionate
about the future of our parliamentary democracy.

On May 6, Britain faces its most important choice for a generation. Once again
we want Telegraph readers to be involved in our coverage. On our letters page
and online, you can record your views on the issues, campaigns, parties and
leaders.

After five years of the most discredited Parliament of modern times, our readers
have the chance to have their views heard in an election many wanted to be
called months ago. To guide our coverage, and give us an insight into what you
are thinking during the campaign, we have invited 10 readers to form a panel.

Some are committed party supporters, others are undecided. They are astute and
fair-minded, and demand great things of their would-be leaders. We will record
their views on the issues of the day. You can follow them at
telegraph.co.uk/election

Peter Wood Age: 57 Job: Economic consultant Lives: With wife and two daughters
Constituency: Edinburgh South Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative "I've met the Tory candidate Neil Hudson and he's a very solid
chap. I'm not a committed Conservative and might not have voted if he had been a
weaker candidate. Nigel Griffiths is retiring as our Labour MP and has been good
locally. He had press coverage about his private life but that didn't seem to
have much impact. People are more worried about the economy and, nationally, the
Conservatives seem better placed. But in Scotland there are still questions over
their credibility lingering from the Thatcher era. This seat is a three-way
marginal"

Relve Spread Age: 30 Lives: With friends Job: Graduate student Constituency:
Battersea Last time: Labour This time: Undecided "I just don't know who I'm
going to vote for. I'm already unimpressed with all the slanging matches between
David Cameron and Gordon Brown and don't want to hear any more. This would put
the Liberal Democrats in a good position, but that seems like a wasted vote -
especially in Battersea, where it doesn't seem possible they can win. I am most
interested in what the parties would do about education. As a graduate student
it affects me directly and I think it's very important the country as a whole
continues to invest in education. "

David Pagan Age: 44 Lives: With wife and two children Job: Finance manager
Constituency: Solihull Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably Lib Dem
"The problem with the UK is that we're too reliant on the City. The banks are
crucial to our income but it's too concentrated on the South East. I want a
party that has a plan to revive engineering and science and to spread the
benefit across the country. Why are so few ministers scientists or engineers?
They all did PPE at Oxford. Labour have no credible plan to change things, and
what I saw Margaret Thatcher do to our industry as I grew up deters me from the
Tories. The Lib Dems deserve a chance. "

Rachel Clarke Age: 39 Lives: Alone Job: Head of social media at digital
marketing firm Constituency: Brentford and Isleworth Last time: Conservative
This time: Conservative/Lib Dem "Ann Keen is our current MP and has suffered
badly from newspaper reports about her use of expenses and her general attitude.
It is telling that I haven't even considered voting for her. She is persona non
grata in certain parts of the constituency. I don't know yet know enough about
Mary Macleod, the Conservative candidate. Andrew Dakers, the Liberal Democrat,
seems to have the edge around here at the moment but I'm looking at both. "

Doug Smith Age: 27 Lives: With friends Job: Accountant/ fund-raiser at a charity
Constituency: Brighton Pavilion Last time: Labour This time: Labour/Green "I've
become disillusioned with Labour but haven't finalised my decision. I always
thought the Greens were quite a one-issue party but the first thing they talk
about on their website is pensions and jobs. Caroline Lucas, their leader, is
standing here. They have a real chance here and may get my vote. Nationally, I'm
most concerned with the economy - particularly what the Tories might do to the
charity sector and international development budgets. Locally, transport is the
big issue for me. "

Jules Watson Age: 40 Lives: With wife and daughter Job: Restaurateur
Constituency: Richmond Park Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Conservative "I'm hoping the campaign will now move on to content rather than
bickering. We need meat on the bones. We have Zac Goldsmith standing for the
Conservatives here, which is spicing things up. I like him and he has already
campaigned on keeping shops and restaurants local, which directly appeals to me.
I have not seen a lot of Susan Kramer, the current Lib Dem MP. It's good to have
a candidate who has promised to be independent minded. Politics has become too
centralised and presidential. "

Melissa Newman Age: 52 Lives: With husband and three children Job: Housewife
Constituency: Guildford Last time: Conservative This time: Probably Conservative
"I'm yet to be convinced David Cameron is ready to lead the country, but I will
probably vote Conservative on local issues. Anne Milton has been a very good MP.
She makes herself available and is often seen out jogging. My daughter recently
turned 18 and received a birthday card with a picture of Big Ben from Mrs
Milton. There's no point in voting Labour here and the Liberal Democrat, Sue
Doughty, will need to do more to convince me. "

Clifford Forsyth Age: 67 Lives: With wife. Has two sons Job: Retired IT
technician Constituency: Harrow West Last time: Conservative This time: Probably
Ukip "The current political debate is infantile. The elephant in the room is the
economy and the major parties are dancing round it. There's very little
difference between Labour and the Conservatives and the cuts they're planning
would only scratch the surface. At least Ukip stand for something - the UK.
They're not going to get in, but may get an MP or two. "

Vilma McAdam Age: 66 Lives: With husband Job: Retired local government official
Constituency: Aberdeen South Last time: Liberal Democrat This time: Probably Lib
Dem "Our Labour MP, Anne Begg, has been very good. But I don't like Labour being
in power. The economy is the big issue for me, and Vince Cable would make a
great chancellor. George Osborne and Alistair Darling seem weak by comparison. I
also distrust the Conservatives with our public services. The Tories will
probably slash spending. "

Shelly Asquith Age: 19 Lives: With parents Job: Marketing assistant
Constituency: Chelmsford Last time: Not eligible This time: Labour "Social
policy is the priority for me. The Labour Government has been good for 13 years,
bringing in liberal policies like allowing civil partnerships. The comments on
B&Bs by Chris Grayling, the shadow home secretary, did not impress me at all. I
don't want the Conservatives to come in and lift the ban on foxhunting. David
Cameron comes across as a good and likeable man but I don't think the Tories
beneath him have really changed - they are still the 'nasty party'. And I don't
trust George Osborne to manage the economy. "

Broadcast times >> ITV - Domestic affairs April 15, 8.30pm >> Sky News - Foreign
affairsApril 22, 8pm >> BBC One - Economy April 29, 8.30pm

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HEATHCLIFF O'MALLEY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              262 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The only thing you won't hear in the next 30 days is the truth;
The partie's cosy consensus will leave millions of voters effectively
disfranchised, suggests

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1223 words


At times such as this I am reminded of some words from Cardinal Newman: "We now
have passed the Gate, and are within the House of Judgment." Yet one cannot make
a sensible judgment without good information: and election campaigns are about
assertion and not fact. Much of what you encounter in the next 30 days will be
propaganda, and should be treated accordingly. Your intelligence will be
insulted in a most insolent fashion. The truth will be kept from you on every
possible occasion.

Artifice will entirely overpower substance. No wonder so many of us long for May
7. There are facts out there, and let us rehearse them. The Labour Party has
failed utterly in government. It has not merely wrecked the economy, with
long-term consequences: it has taken a path of repairing the damage that will,
through its emphasis on high taxes, borrowing and public spending, cause more
harm before it does any good - if it does any good. It has also been derelict on
matters of such significance as our schools, our universities, law and order,
immigration and our Armed Forces. It lies about its record - Lord Kinnock's
deceitful performance on yesterday's Today programme was an indication of the
line of evasion that will now be peddled. Mr Brown's stewardship of our nation
has been shocking. He does not deserve to have it renewed.

Yet, despite this atrocity, the Conservative Party has, in the five years since
its last debacle, done remarkably little to convince the public that it
understands what is going on, let alone that it has any concept of how to make
our country more prosperous, better run and generally happier. When David
Cameron spoke to activists on the Embankment yesterday morning, one was at once
splashed in the face by the cold water of the obsession with image: almost
everyone in sight was young, several of them (including a man Mr Cameron
ostentatiously embraced with that warm insincerity that is his trademark) from
ethnic minorities, a correct proportion of them women. His approach has always
been about ticking the boxes of militant superficiality. His main argument is
that he is not the Labour Party. Well, not in name, at any rate.

And the Liberal Democrats? They have a flexibility of principle that leaves even
that of Mr Cameron standing; a record of opportunism and incompetence in local
government (the only place they have had any power) that puts Mr Brown's moral
and intellectual inadequacies in the shade. One would be inclined to ridicule
them entirely were they not likely to do as much damage to Labour in some parts
of the country as the Tories are, and because of the far from impossible
prospect of Vince Cable having some say in the running of our economy in a
month's time. With various useful independents standing in certain seats, with
the Greens in with a chance in Brighton Pavilion, with Ukip a not impossible
prospect for the Speaker's seat in Buckingham, with votes being split in a way
they have rarely been split before, not just by the Greens and Ukip, but also by
the knuckledusters of the BNP, anything could happen.

As I am not an astrologer - and also because I genuinely don't have a clue - you
must forgive me if I don't predict the outcome. We shall know soon enough. All
that is certain (and here comes another rare fact) is that we shall end up being
governed by a social democratic government of some sort. This is not because I
expect a coalition including the Lib Dems, though that joy may well await us. It
is because the likely programmes and conduct of another Labour or a new
Conservative administration will be broadly social democratic. By that, I mean
that the state will play a large role in the management of our country; there
will a strong redistributive element to policy; levelling down, whether through
the education system or the welfare state, will continue. What this means is
that a significant proportion of the electorate that wants none of these things
will have been effectively disfranchised. Our understandable boredom is tempered
by a frustration that none of the main three parties seems to want to represent
what so many of us believe in.

A majority of those who vote may well give the illusion of our having a social
democratic consensus. Let us not forget, though, that 40 per cent were so
alienated by politicians at the last two elections that they did not vote at
all. Perhaps the wider availability of fringe parties may improve turnout. As
the campaign proceeds, however, the spectacle of inadequates on our television
screens - Harriet Harman trying not to appear deranged by fanaticism, George
"Sharing the proceeds of growth" Osborne trying to pretend he understands
economics, or almost anyone from the Lib Dem front bench (except Dr Cable)
trying to be taken seriously - may drive people either into the arms of the
minnows, or abroad on holiday until the ghastliness is over.

For the frustration of the nonsocial democratic majority in this country has
only just begun. No one from the main parties will tell the truth about the need
to sack hundreds of thousands of people on the public payroll in order to ensure
we live within our means. Nobody will tell the truth about how lower taxes
increase revenue, because there are too many cheap votes in bashing bankers who
earn lots of money. Nobody will properly defend capitalism as an essential
ingredient of a free society. Nobody will champion selective education, which
gives such a chance in life to bright children from poor homes, and nobody will
be truthful about the pointlessness of much university education.

Nobody will dare to be radical about the corrupt effects of the welfare state.
Nobody will take the radical approach needed to counter the results of unlimited
immigration. Above all - and that last point leads on to this - nobody will
confront the public with the realities of our membership of a European Union
governed by the Treaty of Lisbon, which has left us with a choice of staying in
on Europe's terms, or getting out.

All these things matter to people who are honest, hard-working, love their
country, and seek only to be allowed to get on with their lives, undisturbed by
the state, and to keep more of what they earn. There will be millions of voters
missing from the polling booths on May 6 because there is an agenda missing from
the discourse of our leading politicians, all of whom fear challenging a
consensus that exists more in their minds, or those of their teenage advisers,
than in reality.

The tedium to come can be obviated by not turning on the television for a few
weeks. Newspapers, believe me, will ensure the diet of politics is kept to the
minimum: our readers are precious to us, and we wish neither to bore them with
the self-importance of politicians nor to insult them by bombarding them with
propaganda. Strong drink and martial music may be useful. That still leaves the
problem of how Britain will ever be run properly, whether by a tribal introvert
who wishes to suffocate us with his "values", or a PR spiv whose "big idea" is
to appoint 5,000 commissars to assist the development of "communities". There
will be more absurdity yet. "Democracy," wrote Carlyle, "which means despair of
finding any Heroes to govern you!" How right you were, Tom, how right you were.

Comment on Simon Heffer's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              263 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HERE THEY TO AGAIN ..;
As politicians prepare to hit the campaign trail, Philip Johnston looks back at
previous incidents that galvanised the electorate, and wonders where the next
surprise is coming from

BYLINE: Philip Johnston

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1362 words


And they're off. Wait a minute, no they're not.

Gordon Brown may have been to Buckingham Palace yesterday to obtain the Queen's
agreement to the dissolution of Parliament, but work is not finished yet at the
Palace of Westminster. Today sees the final Prime Minister's question time
before the May 6 general election and there is the small matter of bulldozing
various bits of legislation on to the statute book in what is known as the "wash
up".

This is essentially a negotiation among the parties to keep or dispense with
various measures that are still before either the Commons or the Lords. The
election campaign proper will not begin until next week when the parties start
holding their morning news conferences in a vain attempt to fix the political
agenda for the day. It will be a long slog for all concerned; not least for us,
the voters. On the basis of what has happened during past campaigns, here are 10
things worth watching out for over the next four weeks.

The manifestos These are usually published in the first week of the campaign to
almost universal indifference. They represent the core programmes of each of the
parties; yet finding anyone who has read them from start to finish, even
politicians, is as rare as discovering a hen with teeth.

The manifestos used to be worthy, plodding documents that looked as though they
had been produced at party HQ on a John Bull printing set. Today, they are
glossy magazines full of photographs of gleaming new hospitals, happy school
teachers and friendly policemen (the Government); or litter-strewn streets,
decrepit schools and burned-out cars (the Opposition).

They have hubristic titles such as "Are you thinking what we're thinking?"
(Tories, 2005), which merely invited the answer "No", and "The Labour Way is the
Better Way" (Labour, 1979) to which the response from the electorate was a
resounding "No it isn't." Michael Foot's 1983 Labour manifesto was called "The
New Hope for Britain" but was dubbed by Gerald Kaufman the Longest Suicide Note
in History.

When it comes to titles, simple is often best. The 1979 manifesto on which
Margaret Thatcher campaigned was called "The 1979 Conservative Party General
Election Manifesto". No hostages to fortune there. Things were even more
straightforward in 1900. The manifesto title was "The manifesto of the Marquess
of Salisbury". He was happy to be seen as a team of one.

Round-the-clock election news This got off to an enervating start yesterday when
we were treated to live footage taken from a helicopter of Mr Brown's car
driving up a road, accompanied by the caption "Breaking News - Gordon Brown
leaves Downing Street". This was not even the PM going to the Palace but simply
to St Pancras station.

Information junkies will be able to overdose between now and May 6, starting
each day with Radio 4's Today programme, where John Humphrys will try to
bludgeon some hapless spokesman into undermining his own party's economic
policy, and finishing with BBC 2's Newsnight, where Jeremy Paxman will try to
bludgeon some hapless etc, etc... Mind the gaffe Round-the-clock news will feed
that other staple of all election campaigns, the gaffe. This involves yet
another hapless party spokesman making what most people would regard as an
unexceptional statement, only to find that his political career is ruined by
teatime.

Chris Grayling is the prime candidate for this year's honours as he has already
been pilloried for suggesting that B&B owners should be allowed to turn
homosexual couples away. Past gaffers have included Oliver Letwin, who as shadow
Treasury chief secretary in 2001 implied that, if elected, the Tories would seek
£20 billion of tax cuts, thereby exploding a deliberately non-contentious
economic package. The mother and father of election gaffes was Neil Kinnock's
display of triumphalism at Labour's Sheffield rally in 1992 when the party
thought the election was won, only to find it wasn't.

The coded message When the politicians want to get something across but have not
got the courage to say what they mean, they will resort to the coded message.
Standing outside No 10 yesterday, Gordon Brown deployed several, including "I am
an ordinary man from an ordinary background" (meaning: David Cameron is a
privileged toff), and "I am not a team of one, I am one of a team" (meaning: I
am too unpopular to do this on my own).

The local battles Away from the central campaign, local skirmishes can be more
dramatic than anything taking place nationally. During the 1964 campaign in
Smethwick in the West Midlands, Patrick Gordon Walker, lined up to be foreign
secretary in the incoming Labour government, lost his seat in a campaign
dominated by race and immigration. In 1997, Neil Hamilton was ousted in Tatton
by Martin Bell, the Man in the White Suit and a former BBC foreign
correspondent, campaigning on an anti-sleaze platform. The one to watch this
time is in Buckingham, where Nigel Farage, former Ukip leader, is standing
against John Bercow, the Speaker. The fate of some of the MPs caught up in the
expenses controversy will also be of interest, notably that of Jacqui Smith, the
former home secretary, in Redditch.

The opinion polls This is the first election since 1992 in which the worth of
opinion polls will really be tested. The difficulty of interpreting them was
immediately clear yesterday, with YouGov giving the Tories a 10-point lead -
enough to win outright - while ICM had the Conservatives ahead by just four per
cent, which would mean a hung parliament with Labour as the biggest party. What
none of the polls shows is an outright Labour victory, so that possibility can
almost certainly be discounted. The most important polls will be those conducted
in marginal seats in England - in the North West and the West Midlands, in
particular. If the Conservatives are to win the election these are the seats
they have to win, along with a hatful from the Lib Dems in the South West.

The wobbles These take place at some stage during a campaign, even in parties
that are obviously heading for victory. On Wobbly Thursday in 1987, Norman
Tebbit and David Young almost came to blows over the election strategy when it
was rumoured that an opinion poll gave the Tories just a two per cent lead,
though the government was heading for a majority of more than 100.

Ten minutes of fame Despite the best endeavours of party campaign managers to
keep the leaders away from troublesome members of the public, there is usually a
walk-on part at some point for an ordinary voter. In 1983, Mrs Thatcher was
ambushed on a live Q&A session on BBC TV's Nationwide by Diana Gould of
Cheltenham who rattled her with questions about the sinking of the Belgrano
during the Falklands war. In 2001, Sharon Storer buttonholed Tony Blair during a
visit to a Birmingham hospital and gave him a few home truths about cancer care.
Later in the campaign, Craig Evans, a farm worker from Denbigh, threw an egg at
John Prescott, who threw a left jab back.

A clear blue sky Does the weather play a part in elections? Long ago it was
received wisdom that Labour avoided campaigns in the winter because its voters
did not have cars to get out to the polling stations. Yet the Tories lost in the
depths of winter in February 1974, while winning in glorious sunshine in the
summer of 1970, a contest dubbed the shirt-sleeve election because party leaders
campaigned jacketless in the heat. But at least they kept their ties on.

Events, dear boy, events In the words of Harold Macmillan, things will happen
over which the best-laid plans will have no influence. GDP figures for the first
three months of this year are due out a few days before the election, and could
show that the economy is back in recession or doing better than expected. In a
close contest dominated by the economy, this could be a pivotal moment.

Harold Wilson blamed bad trade statistics published three days before the
election for his party's defeat in 1970, when one poll had put Labour 12 points
ahead two weeks into the campaign. The figures showed the trade deficit had
risen from £10 million to £31 million. In January this year, the gap in goods
was £8 billion. Those were the days.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Clockwise from top left: Tony Blair on 'Newsnight' in 2004; Martin Bell
and Neil Hamilton; Neil Kinnock at Sheffield; Michael Foot; Diana Gould in 1983;
John Prescott's punch; and Mrs Thatcher with a calf called Maggie in 1979
SEAN DEMPSEY, REUTERS, DAVID BURGES, REX FEATURES,

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              264 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Close vote may delay the result until Friday;
THE COUNT

BYLINE: Holly Watt

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 269 words


THE results of the election may not be known until the evening of May 7th
because fewer votes than ever before are to be counted overnight.

According to the Electoral Commission, returning officers in up to 150 of the
650 constituencies will not begin counting until the day after the poll.

Returning officers in 70 seats have told the electoral watchdog that the count
will not start until Friday and in a further 72, returning officers are
"undecided".

No information has been received on a further eight seats.

If the results are close, the election will be too tight to call until late on
Friday.

A Save Election Night campaign was launched last year to try to force returning
officers to count votes when the polls closed. Some officers are resisting
counting late into the night because of worries over tiredness and technical
problems.

Jack Straw, the Justice Minister, attempted to rush through legislation to
ensure that counting began immediately but it is unlikely that the bill will get
through Parliament before the election.

Several seats have informed the watchdog that votes will be counted on Friday.
In Buckingham, where the Speaker, John Bercow, is facing a challenge from UKIP's
Nigel Farage, the count will be delayed.

In Norwich North, where 27-year-old Conservative Chloe Smith only won the seat
last year after the sitting Labour MP, Ian Gibson, resigned and forced a
by-election, the count will not begin until Friday. The former GMTV presenter
Gloria Del Piero must wait until Friday to see if she has won the seat of
Ashfield, which was recently vacated by the former cabinet minister Geoff Hoon.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              265 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Election 2010 Swingometer Political ups and downs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 739 words


5.3% 4.1% Swing to Conservatives Swing to Conservatives 43 MAJORITY Margaret
Thatcher in Downing St 144 MAJORITY 1.7% 2.1% Swing to Labour Michael Foot's
electoral disaster 102 MAJORITY Swing to Labour Two Davids: the SDP Alliance 21
MAJORITY The Sun on Neil Kinnock Swing to Labour 179 MAJORITY 1945 10.2%
Cherie's rude awakening Swing to Conservatives 167 MAJORITY Two jabs: Prescott
hits back 1.8% Swing to Conservatives 66 MAJORITY 3.1% Mr Cool ... and Gordon
Brown Telegraph blogs The sharpest analysis from blogging stars such as Lord
Tebbit, Benedict Brogan, Daniel Hannan, Janet Daley and James Delingpole
Election2010 The battles to watch Dawn Butler of Labour and Sarah Teather of the
Liberal Democrats, two rising stars, will contest this new seat, meaning there
will be a high-profile casualty on polling day. Ms Butler is a junior Cabinet
Office minister while Ms Teather is the Lib Dem housing spokesman. South Coast
voters could give Westminster its first Green MP. Caroline Lucas, the Green
Party leader and an MEP, may take votes from Nancy Platts of Labour who is
standing in place of the outgoing MP, David Lepper.

Two opinion polls have pointed to a Green victory. Margaret Hodge faces a
challenge from Nick Griffin, the leader of the BNP, in this east London seat.
Mrs Hodge won a majority of 8,883 in 2005, but discontent among white
working-class voters and a desire to give Labour a kicking will aid the
far-Right party. This was one of the safest Conservative seats at the last
election with John Bercow winning a majority of 18,129. Mr Bercow was elected
Speaker in June last year, but will - unusually - face a challenge from UKIP's
Nigel Farage. Labour seem likely to lose this seat following criminal charges
brought against David Chaytor, the sitting MP. Mr Chaytor faces fraud charges
over rent he claimed for a flat he owned outright. Maryam Khan, who inherits his
slim majority, faces a threat from the Tories. This seat is 116th on the
Conservatives' "target" list. If the Tories win this seat, it would indicate
that they have achieved the 6.9 per cent Labour-Conservative swing required for
the party to get an overall majority. Alistair Darling could be a highprofile
ministerial scalp if the Conservatives have a good night and achieve a swing of
more than 8 per cent. Mr Darling is sitting on a reasonable majority of 7,242,
but far larger deficits have been overturned in the past. Ben Bradshaw is being
targeted by the Conservatives in their "decapitation" strategy. Despite a
majority of 7,665 in 2005, Mr Bradshaw, the Secretary of State for Culture,
Media and Sport, is considered vulnerable. Hannah Foster is running for the
Conservatives. If there were a uniform swing from Labour to Tory around the
country, Shaun Bailey winning Hammersmith would mean the Conservatives are the
largest party in the Commons. Andrew Slaughter, MP for Ealing, Acton and
Shepherd's Bush, is the Labour candidate. Esther Rantzen, the television
presenter, is standing amid anger at the expenses claims of Margaret Moran, the
outgoing Labour MP. Mrs Rantzen is the highest-profile independent candidate in
an election where anger at the major parties may have a big impact. Phyllis
Starkey has held this seat since Labour's landslide victory in the 1997
election. If she loses it, then Labour is likely to have lost its overall
majority. Iain Stewart is the Conservative candidate. Ed Balls, the Children's
Secretary, is the subject of a Tory effort to cause a "Portillo moment". Just as
Michael Portillo had his 15,563 majority in Enfield Southgate overturned in
1997, Mr Balls, who has a notional 9,784 cushion, will be under pressure in this
new seat. The Tories may snatch a shock victory in this east London
constituency. Jim Fitzpatrick, the Farming Minister, battles Respect's George
Galloway for the Left-wing and workingclass vote. They could split it to the
benefit of Tim Archer, the Tory candidate. Jacqui Smith, the former home
secretary, faces a fight to stop the Tories overturning her majority of 1,948.
One of the most infamous cases in the expenses scandal, it emerged that she
submitted an expenses claim for a pornographic film watched by her husband.
Angela E Smith, the Charities Minister, looks likely to be a casualty for
Labour. The result will be keenly anticipated on both sides: in every election
since 1974, the party of the MP chosen by Basildon has gone on to win the most
seats.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              266 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Bercow faces anti-sleaze challenge... if the voters turnup

BYLINE: Gordon Rayner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 646 words


IT is the only constituency in which none of the three main parties will field a
candidate, but Buckingham is already turning into one of the most fascinating
battlegrounds of the election.

John Bercow, the incumbent MP and Speaker, would traditionally have been
returned unopposed but after he was tainted by the MPs' expenses scandal he is
facing the ignominy of having to fight off a five-way challenge from
"anti-sleaze" candidates.

The rumblings of discontent on the streets of the market town of Buckingham
yesterday suggested that Mr Bercow's 18,129 majority was anything but safe.

Although his main opponent is Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, his
greatest foes may turn out to be confusion, voter apathy and hostility towards
the political class. Tuesday is market day in Buckingham and Martin Eldridge's
customers at the confectionery stall were hardly gripped by election fever.

"What I keep hearing from people is that they're not going to bother turning
up," said Mr Eldridge. "Apathy will be a big factor here. People are fed up with
all politicians, and Bercow represents what people don't like about the current
Parliament. The issue of MPs' expenses does come up a lot."

Mr Bercow, who has been the MP for the rural constituency since 1997, was named
by The Daily Telegraph last year as one of the MPs who had "flipped" the
location of his second home to take ad vantage of parliamentary allowances. He
later paid £6,500 to HM Revenue & Customs in lieu of the capital gains tax he
would have paid on the profit he made by selling one of his homes if he had been
legally obliged to do so.

Buckingham has been a Tory constituency since 1970, when the shire got rid of
its last Labour MP, the newspaper magnate Robert Maxwell.

While Mr Bercow has his supporters, the fact that as Speaker, he cannot stand as
a Conservative is likely to cost him votes. "The whole thing's very confusing,"
said Bridget Stephan, 85. "What is John Bercow standing as? Just as himself?
Well that in itself is confusing, isn't it?" The voters' uncertainty will not
have been helped by the fact that, on the day the election was called, none of
the main candidates was anywhere to be seen.

Mr Bercow was carrying out official duties in Westminster, Mr Farage was on a
train to Brussels because of his day job as an MEP, and although "one of the
independents" was reportedly seen in town, no one seemed able to remember his
name. Mr Farage was in bullish form as he caught the Eurostar train, but he
admitted that his biggest problem was the prospect of the other candidates
(three independents and one BNP) splitting the protest vote between them.

"All of our canvassing in the south of the constituency, in places like Princes
Risborough, suggests we have a good majority there," he said. "Further north, in
the Tory heartlands, it will be more difficult.

"Bercow has the advantage of being the incumbent, but he isn't a Conservative on
the ballot paper, so I think a lot of people will abstain and that will help
me."

Ukip, which opened an election "shop" selling party merchandise in Buckingham
town centre last October, presents the most organised opposition. Almost every
bus going through the town displays an election poster for the party.

The shop and campaign headquarters is helping to attract some of the minority of
75,000 registered voters who would normally vote Labour. Ben Jones, the manager
of the proudly working-class Three Cups pub, has noticed a definite swing
towards Ukip among his regulars. "There isn't a Labour candidate so people are
discussing which way to go. I think since the Ukip shop set up, and people find
out more about them, they are moving in that direction."

Michael Edmonds, a Tory councillor and long-standing friend of Mr Bercow, said:
"I don't think his majority will be anything like as big and, to be honest, he
will be grateful to get back in."

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: John Bercow, left, faces a challenge to his seat from Nigel Farage of
Ukip

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              267 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Election 2010 The battles to watch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 294 words


Margaret Hodge faces a challenge from Nick Griffin, the leader of the BNP, in
this east London seat. Mrs Hodge won a majority of 8,883 in 2005, but discontent
among white working-class voters and a desire to give Labour a kicking will aid
the far-Right party.

Dawn Butler of Labour and Sarah Teather of the Liberal Democrats, two rising
stars, will contest this new seat, meaning there will be a high-profile casualty
on polling day. Ms Butler is a junior Cabinet Office minister while Ms Teather
is the Lib Dem housing spokesman.

South Coast voters could give Westminster its first Green MP. Caroline Lucas,
the Green Party leader and an MEP, may take votes from Nancy Platts of Labour
who is standing in place of the outgoing MP, David Lepper. Two opinion polls
have pointed to a Green victory.

This was one of the safest Conservative seats at the last election with John
Bercow winning a majority of 18,129.

Mr Bercow was elected Speaker in June last year, but will - unusually - face a
challenge from UKIP's Nigel Farage.

Labour seem likely to lose this seat following criminal charges brought against
David Chaytor, the sitting MP. Mr Chaytor faces fraud charges over rent he
claimed for a flat he owned outright. Maryam Khan, who inherits his slim
majority, faces a threat from the Tories.

This seat is 116th on the Conservatives' "target" list. If the Tories win this
seat, it would indicate that they have achieved the 6.9 per cent
Labour-Conservative swing required for the party to get an overall majority.

Alistair Darling could be a highprofile ministerial scalp if the Conservatives
have a good night and achieve a swing of more than 8 per cent. Mr Darling is
sitting on a reasonable majority of 7,242, but far larger deficits have been
overturned in the past.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              268 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron can deliver a new political direction;
THE NORTHERN & SHELL BUILDING NUMBER 10 LOWER THAMES STREET, LONDON EC3R 6EN
Tel: 0208 612 7000 (outside UK: +44 208 612 7000)

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1023 words


FINAL ARTWORK NOT all elections are of equal importance. Some boil down to who
is preferred to implement an agreed set of policies that command a wide
consensus of support. Others are won at a canter by the incumbent party on the
basis that things are ticking along nicely and regime change would constitute an
unwarranted risk.

But every once in a while comes a general election that marks a fork in the road
for the nation. The elections of 1979 and 1997 spring to mind. It is already
clear that the election of 2010 will be another such contest.

For make no mistake, Britain is in a deep malaise. Without radical change the
nation will slip into a steep decline from which there may be no escape. Inward
investment will dry up, our most productive people will flee abroad in even
greater numbers than they have been doing of late and international lenders will
demand punitive interest rates in return for propping up the national finances.

The least the country is entitled to expect in such dire circumstances is that
all the party leaders should have a grip on reality. But yesterday the Prime
Minister proved the opposite to be true in his case.

The unforgivably complacent message Gordon Brown had for voters was: "Do not let
the Conservatives put things at risk." To which the obvious retort is: put what
at risk?

Our once envied occupational pensions system, the soundness of our national
finances, our immigration system and good race relations, the strength of our
manufacturing industry, our reputation for decent standards in public life and
no-nonsense policing, the morale and firepower of our armed forces, sensible
industrial relations conducive to rising prosperity, disciplined schools and
rigorous exams? All these things and more have already been wrecked by Labour.

The Prime Minister's claim to possess some special qualification for securing
economic recovery is equally ridiculous. It is he who proposes to further
increase national insurance - a direct tax on employment - next spring. Nothing
could be more guaranteed to inhibit job creation and growth. And Brown's pledge
to people that "when you need access to a GP in the evenings or at weekends...
our public services will be there guaranteed and accountable" rings particularly
hollow. Voters will surely not forget it was Labour that allowed GPs to opt out
of evening and weekend work. As for reinvigorating our democracy, who was it
that promised a referendum on the European Constitution and then steamrollered
the Lisbon Treaty through in defiance of public opposition? So out of touch have
Brown and his band of Cabinet deadbeats become that they sincerely believed
likening David Cameron to the TV detective Gene Hunt, of Ashes To Ashes fame,
would do the Tory leader harm. But where the narrow metropolitan elite that
provides most Labour ministers regards Hunt with disgust, he is a hero to most
of Britain because of his disdain for Left-wing political correctness.

David Cameron's remark yesterday that his team could hardly do any worse than
Brown's may have left something to be desired as a rallying cry but it was a
refreshingly realistic assessment of the state of the nation and its diminished
faith in the political class. Fortunately the Conservative leader has more going
for him than that. Mr Cameron has matured greatly as a statesman. An early
"hug-ahoodie" phase that gave so many natural Tories palpitations is behind him,
replaced by a hard-headed assessment of what needs to be done to save his
country.

When the Tory leader pledges to fight for the "great ignored" he hits the nail
on the head. These are the people who, in Cameron's words, "start businesses,
operate factories, teach our children, clean the streets, grow our food, keep us
healthy and keep us safe".

The modest middle classes who work hard and play by the rules and in return have
been massively overburdened with taxes and regulations will decide this election
as every other. The mission facing any government is to set them free to raise
the condition of the nation through their natural qualities of self-reliance,
enterprise and thrift.

That can only be done by radically reshaping the welfare state so it really
offers what Blair promised it would before he gave up on reform - a hand up, not
a handout. It also means reducing the size of a bloated state sector that has
become a millstone around the nation's neck. A Labour Party in hock to
public-sector trade unions and relying on the votes of a welfare dependent
underclass will never deliver on these issues.

UNTIL recently there were quite reasonable concerns that a combination of Mr
Cameron as prime minister and his friend George Osborne as chancellor might not
possess sufficient grit or experience. But the events of recent weeks have done
much to calm such anxieties. While Cameron showed his grasp of economic reality
with a devastating reply to the Budget last month, Osborne has also come of age.

His performance in the chancellors' TV debate was immensely reassuring -
especially his statement that the government must always remember it does not
have any money of its own but is merely the guardian of taxpayers' money. His
bold pledge to scrap Labour's proposed national insurance rises in the interests
of hardworking families and embattled employers has also transformed the state
of the opinion polls and garnered massive business support.

There are two wild cards in this election. The first is Nick Clegg's Liberal
Democrats, who have belatedly grasped the importance of restraining public
spending and on issues such as Europe and immigration. The second is the
performance of the smaller parties, most notably the broadening appeal of uKIP
under the energetic leadership of Lord Pearson.

But on May 7 Britain will wake up to find one of two men occupying the post of
prime minister: Gordon Brown or David Cameron. To judge from the body language
of the Cabinet yesterday, not even the upper echelons of the Labour Party
believe that scowling, stuck-in-the-mud Brown is the right man to take the
country forward. It is time for a change.

'Hardworking families must be freed from excessive taxation'

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEADERSHIP: David Cameron is offering the change Britain needs
Picture: EPA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              269 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron can deliver a new political direction;
LEADER

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 1021  words


NOT all elections are of equal importance. Some boil down to who is preferred to
implement an agreed set of policies that command a wide consensus of support.
Others are won at a canter by the incumbent party on the basis that things are
ticking along nicely and regime change would constitute an unwarranted risk.

But every once in a while comes a general election that marks a fork in the road
for the nation. The elections of 1979 and 1997 spring to mind. It is already
clear that the election of 2010 will be another such contest.

For make no mistake, Britain is in a deep malaise. Without radical change the
nation will slip into a steep decline from which there may be no escape.

Inward investment will dry up, our most productive people will flee abroad in
even greater numbers than they have been doing of late and international lenders
will demand punitive interest rates in return for propping up the national
finances.

The least the country is entitled to expect in such dire circumstances is that
all the party leaders should have a grip on reality. But yesterday the Prime
Minister proved the opposite to be true in his case.

The unforgivably complacent message Gordon Brown had for voters was: "Do not let
the Conservatives put things at risk." To which the obvious retort is: put what
at risk?

O UR once envied occupational pensions system, the soundness of our national
finances, our immigration system and good race relations, the strength of our
manufacturing industry, our reputation for decent standards in public life and
no-nonsense policing, the morale and firepower of our armed forces, sensible
industrial relations conducive to rising prosperity, disciplined schools and
rigorous exams? All these things and more have already been wrecked by Labour.

The Prime Minister's claim to possess some special qualification for securing
economic recovery is equally ridiculous. It is he who proposes to further
increase national insurance - a direct tax on employment - next spring. Nothing
could be more guaranteed to inhibit job creation and growth. And Brown's pledge
to people that "when you need access to a GP in the evenings or at weekends? our
public services will be there guaranteed and accountable" rings particularly
hollow. Voters will surely not forget it was Labour that allowed GPs to opt out
of evening and weekend work. As for reinvigorating our democracy, who was it
that promised a referendum on the European Constitution and then steamrollered
the Lisbon Treaty through in defiance of public opposition?

So out of touch have Brown and his band of Cabinet deadbeats become that they
sincerely believed likening David Cameron to the TV detective Gene Hunt, of
Ashes To Ashes fame, would do the Tory leader harm. But where the narrow
metropolitan elite that provides most Labour ministers regards Hunt with
disgust, he is a hero to most of Britain because of his disdain for Left-wing
political correctness.

David Cameron's remark yesterday that his team could hardly do any worse than
Brown's may have left something to be desired as a rallying cry but it was a
refreshingly realistic assessment of the state of the nation and its diminished
faith in the political class. Fortunately the Conservative leader has more going
for him than that. Mr Cameron has matured greatly as a statesman. An early
"hug-ahoodie" phase that gave so many natural Tories palpitations is behind him,
replaced by a hard-headed assessment of what needs to be done to save his
country.

When the Tory leader pledges to fight for the "great ignored" he hits the nail
on the head. These are the people who, in Cameron's words, "start businesses,
operate factories, teach our children, clean the streets, grow our food, keep us
healthy and keep us safe".

The modest middle classes who work hard and play by the rules and in return have
been massively overburdened with taxes and regulations will decide this election
as every other. The mission facing any government is to set them free to raise
the condition of the nation through their natural qualities of self-reliance,
enterprise and thrift.

That can only be done by radically reshaping the welfare state so it really
offers what Blair promised it would before he gave up on reform - a hand up, not
a handout. It also means reducing the size of a bloated state sector that has
become a millstone around the nation's neck. A Labour Party in hock to
public-sector trade unions and relying on the votes of a welfare dependent
underclass will never deliver on these issues.

U NTIL recently there were quite reasonable concerns that a combination of Mr
Cameron as prime minister and his friend George Osborne as chancellor might not
possess sufficient grit or experience.

But the events of recent weeks have done much to calm such anxieties.

While Cameron showed his grasp of economic reality with a devastating reply to
the Budget last month, Osborne has also come of age.

His performance in the chancellors' TV debate was immensely reassuring -
especially his statement that the government must always remember it does not
have any money of its own but is merely the guardian of taxpayers' money. His
bold pledge to scrap Labour's proposed national insurance rises in the interests
of hardworking families and embattled employers has also transformed the state
of the opinion polls and garnered massive business support.

There are two wild cards in this election. The first is Nick Clegg's Liberal
Democrats, who have belatedly grasped the importance of restraining public
spending and supporting working people yet still adhere to lamentable policies
on issues such as Europe and immigration. The second is the performance of the
smaller parties, most notably the broadening appeal of UKIP under the energetic
leadership of Lord Pearson.

But on May 7 Britain will wake up to find one of two men occupying the post of
prime minister: Gordon Brown or David Cameron. To judge from the body language
of the Cabinet yesterday, not even the upper echelons of the Labour Party
believe that scowling, stuck-in-the-mud Brown is the right man to take the
country forward. It is time for a change.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LEADERSHIP: David Cameron is offering the change Britain needs

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              270 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday

Diary: For some the election is the beginning of the end. For Michael Howard, it
could be a new beginning

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 641 words


?So it's game on, and with the poll of polls pointing to a narrow Tory victory,
one begins to wonder what the new parliament will be like. But for some there is
no need for guessing or speculation. They know their fate already. And Michael
"something of the night" Howard is one of them. Last week we told how Howard,
who is standing down in Folkestone and Hythe, has latterly been sucking up to
the lawyers and judges he has upset in the past in anticipation of being
unveiled as the new Conservative legal greybeard, probably lord chancellor. But
whatever he does, he clearly expects to be doing it from the red benches of the
Lords. That much was made clear by communication between the former Tory party
leader and the fictitious lobbyists Anderson Perry (aka Channel 4's
Dispatches/Sunday Times), who were due to meet him. Researchers were first asked
to find out how any deal between the MP and the company might be complicated by
his elevation to the second chamber. "I should also mention that I have also
been approached by another company in your field but have not so far signed up
to anyone," he said playfully. Hurry, hurry. Come and get me.

?Yes, it's game on, and already there are reports of a strange dynamic among the
movers and shakers in the legal community. They find that until this point, they
had limited time or affection for Dominic Grieve (pictured), the shadow justice
secretary. But, faced with the prospect of Michael Howard's return to
government, and with all that might mean for the courts and the judiciary, it
does begin to seem as if that Grieve chap isn't too bad, really. Quite good,
actually, given the circumstances. Jolly good man. Top draw. Perfect.

?Just four weeks. No time to lose, so members of Ukip must decide whether to
rise up and support Paul Wiffen, former leader of the party in London, and
prospective parliamentary candidate who is now suspended from both positions
after posting an ugly night-time rant about slavery, Muslim "nutters" and
Romanians. The party acted after we brought the posting to its attention. He
says we're to blame. "Do you really want me thrown to the wolves to appease a
journalist on the Guardian, or do you want the Straight Talking that the party
promised at its Spring Conference?" he demands in a bulletin picked up by the
blogger Tory Outcast. If you are with me, he says "please demand that my
disciplinary hearing is held immediately after the Easter Break so that if
exonerated I can still stand for Ilford South and Redbridge council". The people
must speak. He must stand. Just the type we need in the new parliament.

?And joy is unconfined among the Twitterati at the addition to their ranks of
the Daily Mail's Richard Littlejohn. Hundreds now follow him, and little wonder.
"BBC says Barclays boss Bob Diamond is the 'unacceptable face of banking'," says
he. "They've not seen the bird in my local Natwest! Frightening! Ha Ha!" But,
typically, the account is plagued by barrackers and lefties. "Instructed my PA
to block 'the most ranty morons' on Twitter. Apparently she blocked 40 people.
'Who only seem to know the C-word.'" Ultimately Twitter may keep her busier than
him.

?But then Twitter and the internet can be an imposition. Over at the Times,
Giles Coren must write his acclaimed articles - and then rally his supporters to
balance out the criticism. "Do keep trying to post on the Times website under my
review - I'm keen to find out why they're so keen to see me insulted but not
supported," he tweeted sorrowfully on Monday. "I really don't know what the
Times is up to. They seem to love nasty personal shit about me being posted but
don't post yr support *sad face*." But perhaps he is being harsh on his
employers, for within hours there are just seven comments remaining. Haters
nowhere to be seen; life as it should be.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              271 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

The 2010 election offers a real opportunity for change;
Now is the time for an honest national argument about what form that change
should take

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1526 words


The drama of calling a general election, with the Prime Minister's drive to the
Palace, the formal request for Parliament to be dissolved, and the announcement
of the date itself, retains its force, even when 6 May has been marked on the
calendar for months. And the election of 2010 was already shaping up to be the
most open and the most keenly fought for almost a generation well before
yesterday's declaration.

Gordon Brown leads Labour into the contest on its record of 13 years in power
and his own three years as Prime Minister. David Cameron has spent four years
renewing the Conservative Party and trying to excise its "nastiness". And Nick
Clegg, the relative newcomer at the helm of the Liberal Democrats, has bright
prospects, not only because of the blinder played by his Treasury spokesman,
Vince Cable, in recent months, but because the polls show the two major parties
so close that the possibility of a hung Parliament cannot be excluded. The
appeal of the Greens and the right-wing fringe parties, such as the BNP and
Ukip, will be subject to the judgement of the voters - the only test that
matters.

The campaign opens as the country has started to emerge from the most acute
financial crisis in recent history, with the political atmosphere contaminated
by the scandal of MPs' expenses. And it would be easy to consider the
Government's record through this prism alone. Mr Brown was, after all,
Chancellor for 10 years before he became Prime Minister. How far it is possible
or reasonable to assign responsibility for the severity with which the recession
engulfed Britain will be a significant strand in the arguments to come.

But it would be wrong not to appreciate also the very many positive changes that
have taken place in Britain since 1997. We are a more tolerant and cosmopolitan
country than we were 13 years ago. The hundreds of thousands of new European
migrants were largely welcomed and took their place. Much happiness has been
spread by the introduction of civil partnerships. A minimum wage protects the
lowest paid. Hospital waiting lists are mostly a thing of the past; there are
more doctors, more nurses, more police, and there is more subsidised childcare.

There are pluses and minuses in almost every area of life. For this newspaper,
though, what follows are our priorities. We will listen closely to what the
parties and their candidates say and weigh the arguments, before giving our
verdict. A comprehensive national argument is what the next four weeks are for.

SOCIAL VALUES

We reject the notion that Britain is "broken", but this does not mean that there
are no debilitating defects that need to be addressed by the next government.
While the country as a whole has prospered for much of the last 13 years, there
are concentrations of acute deprivation that have been left behind. These exist,
often literally, alongside areas of ostentatious consumption - living proof
that, while the poor may not have become poorer in absolute terms, the rich have
got richer, many of them much richer, and the gap between top and bottom of the
income scale is too wide for the comfort of many.

New Labour - one of whose keynote phrases, coined by the pre-ennobled Peter
Mandelson, was that they were "intensely relaxed about people getting filthy
rich" - bears some responsibility for this. But so, it could be argued, does
their focus on taking children out of poverty, which created a new benefits
trap. The disparity between families with two parents in work (and scant time)
and families with no one in work, into the second and third generation,
threatens the evolution of two distinct societies. How to foster social cohesion
should be high on the next government's agenda.

EDUCATION

The persistent inequality of opportunity in schooling is a bane of life in
Britain, but especially in England. A good education is the key to social
mobility which has, disgracefully, stalled in recent years. Although more
school-leavers are seizing the opportunity to take a degree, the standard and
usefulness of these qualifications is in question. More does not necessarily
mean worse, but regrettably, it has not meant better either.

Promises of choice have been made that have not been, and could not be,
honoured. By no means every child is guaranteed a place at a decent school.
Whether rooted in social class, income, or other factors, poverty of ambition
continues to prevent pupils realising their potential. Despite testing - which
has a place in education - many children go on to secondary school without
mastering the basics and remain handicapped for life. Our record in adult
literacy is lamentable, compared with that of most of our neighbours.
Opportunities for remedial work - providing literacy education in prisons, for
instance - have been missed.

HEALTH

While NHS performance has improved, on paper, the amount of new investment has
not been matched by a corresponding rise in patient satisfaction. Medical
advances and higher public expectations compound the difficulties for any health
service today. But some basics, such as the persistence of mixed wards, poor
hygiene and a lack of basic humanity, along with the "postcode lottery" and
labyrinthine bureaucracy, remain for the next government to tackle. There is an
argument for trying to take politics out of the NHS, by establishing a national
board, as the Conservatives have mooted. But a national health service needs to
be nationally accountable.

The longer lives many now enjoy are, by any standards, a success. But no party
seems to have drawn the necessary conclusions about catering for an ageing
population, and one whose pension arrangements - in the private sector, at least
- have been undermined by a mixture of government action and inaction.
Reconciling the demands of young and old will be a theme of the coming years.

ECONOMY

There is already a sharp dividing line between Labour, which speaks of the
recovery as being still fragile and in need of continued nurturing, and the
Conservatives, who have made cutting the budget deficit a priority. The role of
the state is also in question: whether it should be slimmed down and augmented
by public and charitable organisations, or maintained at roughly its present
size. It's possible to argue that it should be smaller; it's necessary to argue
that it should be smarter. And where, if anywhere, should Britain look for a new
economic and social model?

That cuts in public spending will be needed is taken for granted by everyone,
but only the Liberal Democrats have started to spell out what are bound to be
unpopular measures. And while the composition of our economy is set to change in
the wake of the recession and the inevitable shrinking of our financial services
sector, key questions remain open: about state intervention, the future of
manufacturing, the regulation of banks and the reliance of many Britons on
property as their sole investment. The crisis may, in some ways, have exerted a
salutary effect, not least in stemming the over-reliance on credit. But the new
government will be launched into unfamiliar economic territory.

POLITICAL REFORM

This newspaper has always argued for a change in the electoral system to make
our democracy fairer and more representative. The last government enacted
partial change in some areas. Devolution, for instance, has had mostly positive
effects. The consequences of establishing a Supreme Court remain to be seen, and
much-needed reform of the House of Lords has been left midstream. But the
electoral system remains untouched. It is disappointing that one of the victims
of the dissolution will be Gordon Brown's proposal for a referendum on an
Alternative Voting system. This was not enough, but it was an advance. If this
election is as close as many expect, the case for electoral reform could be
made. The Liberal Democrats have nailed their reformist colours to the mast; we
await what the other parties have to say.

BRITAIN'S PLACE IN THE WORLD

Thirteen years ago it would have been almost inconceivable that the UK would be
fighting wars on two fronts east of Suez. The withdrawal from Iraq has taken
that highly contentious issue off the electoral agenda. But our continued
presence in Afghanistan and our capacity to play the lead supporting role to the
United States in foreign wars remain at issue. So, because of the Conservatives'
suspicion and Labour's timidity, do our relations with the European Union.

We have surely learnt that the UK will have to tailor its ambitions to its real
wealth and status. As a former imperial power with a wider international outlook
than many countries, we have not shrunk from maintaining a military capacity.
But we are only starting to re-examine the bounds of what we can, or should, use
it for. Economic constraints, a reorientation of US priorities and public
misgivings at home are combining to force a necessary reassessment of our place
in the world.

We will return to these, and other issues - such as the environment, transport
and immigration - in future editorials, as and when the parties make their
pitch. We trust that the main parties' campaigns will be optimistic, honest -
and liberal.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              272 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 April 7, 2010
                                 First Edition

Village People

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1045 words


Aren't you that woman off the telly?

* It will be an election rich in faces off the television. The title of most
glamorous new MP of 2010 will surely go to Labour's Gloria De Piero. She was
political editor of GMTV until she surprised colleagues last month by resigning
to fight Ashfield, Notts., a safe Labour seat vacated by Geoff Hoon. Tory Esther
McVey, also formerly of GMTV, missed becoming MP for Wirral West in 2005 by just
1,097 votes, but is in with a very good chance of success this time. Then there
is Esther Rantzen (pictured), an authentic household name in her day, running as
an independent in Luton South, where the Labour MP, Margaret Moran, was forced
out by the expenses scandal. At 69, Rantzen is probably not on the verge of a
new career, but it will be fun to see the veteran campaigner back on the stump -
with or without vegetables that look like genitalia.

Siblings bid to conquer West Country

* There have been brothers, sisters, fathers and sons, husbands and wives, but
never in the history of the House of Commons have a brother and sister sat side
by side as MPs. The voters of Somerset may be about to rectify that omission.

Opinion polls suggest that Annunziata Rees-Mogg, 31-year-old daughter of the
stately journalist William Rees-Mogg, will take Somerset and Frome, on the
Dorset/Wiltshire border, and her older brother Jacob, will take North East
Somerset. Neither result is a given, because each sibling is up against a
well-regarded sitting MP: Labour's Dan Norris in his case, and the Lib Dem David
Heath in hers. Annunziata is famous for having told David Cameron what he could
do with his suggestion that she drop her double-barrelled name. And who could
forget Jacob's immortal thoughts on the high proportion of public school and
Oxbridge graduates who become Tory candidates - "The Tory party, when it's
elected, [is] not going to be able to form a government if it has potted plants
as candidates simply to make up quotas."

Jake and Nancy Mogg. What a team!

Thirteenth time may be a shoo-in

* Which brings us to Sir Peter Tapsell. Aged 80, he is the last person still
active in politics who was around when the Suez Canal was British and French,
and Elvis Presley was aspiring to be famous. He was personal assistant to the
Prime Minister, Anthony Eden, in 1955. Assuming he is elected in May - which is
a near-certainty - it will be the 13th time he has successfully fought a general
election, the first being in 1959.

He will then have his moment centre stage as Father of the newly elected House.

Thatcherite lays out his stall to tempt Taunton's famously fickle electorate

* Still in Somerset, the Taunton constituency is unique in having turfed out its
sitting MP in every election in the past 13 years. The locals returned a
Conservative in 1992, a Liberal Democrat in 1997, a Tory in 2001, and a Lib Dem
in 2005. The incumbent, Jeremy Browne, now hopes they will settle for a bit of
continuity, but he has a very energetic Tory candidate snapping at his heels.
Mark Formosa has been living in Taunton effectively as a full- time candidate
since 2005, which illustrates how much people some people will sacrifice, even
now, for the chance to see the initials MP after their names. If he takes the
seat, it will count as Tory gain, but not a personal gain for David Cameron. Mr
Formosa does not pretend to be a Cameroonian moderniser. He is a Thatcherite who
wants to bring back hanging and would have us out of the EU. An interesting
contest.

Bercow will be watching his back in Buckingham

* Or will he? John Bercow will certainly want to do another stint as Speaker,
but first he has to be re-elected as MP for Buckingham. In normal times, that
would be a formality, because no candidate from any of the main parties ever
stands against the Speaker, but Bercow is facing a spirited challenge from the
former leader of the UK Independence Party, Nigel Farage. This is Tory country.
Farage, whose father was an eminent stockbroker, looks, dresses and sounds much
more like a Buckingham Tory than does Bercow, who is son of a minicab driver
from Finchley, and whose feisty wife, Sally, is banned from making use of the
Speaker's grace and favour house until 6 May because she is a Labour candidate
in a local council election. David Cameron has issued a stern warning to
Buckingham Tories that on no account are they to aid or abet Farage. Even so,
there is sure to be substantial slippage in the Tory vote. And even if Bercow
survives that, there is still the distant threat of a Conservative coup to try
to get rid of him, because old colleagues on the Tory benches see him as a sell
out.

However, Bercow will be protected by the fact that the Prime Minister - be he
Cameron or Brown - will not want the distraction of a challenge to the Speaker,
and hundreds of newly elected MPs will not know what the fuss is about.

Furniture factor adds up to victory for Conservatives

* In old country houses, the most reliable way of finding out what was happening
above the stairs was to ask the servants. So here is a tip about the likely
outcome of the general election which will cheer David Cameron.

Staff at the House of Commons have to order furniture as an election approaches,
for the offices of newly elected MPs. That requires them to estimate how many
new MPs to expect.

This year, they have weighed the evidence and settled for a figure of 270. That
is startlingly high. Even allowing that there will be several dozen new MPs who
have inherited safe seats where the party holding the seat has stayed the same,
it still implies that, regardless of what the polls say, the people who work in
the Commons are anticipating the sort of electoral landslide that will give
David Cameron an outright majority.

For comparison, the number of new MPs arriving in 1997, after the election that
swept Tony Blair to power, was just under 250.

How to be heard beyond the grave

* We have heard some argument about whether you should be allowed to vote if you
are in prison, but what about being allowed to vote after you're dead? Believe
it or not, you are able quite legally to cast a posthumous vote if you die
between now and 6 May. The way to do it is to cast a postal vote. As long it
arrives on time, it is valid - even if you are dead and gone.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              273 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 April 7, 2010
                                 First Edition

From fringe to centre-stage;
Minority parties Opportunities for single-issue groups have never been greater,
explains Michael Savage

BYLINE: Michael Savage

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1203 words


While teams of strategists for the three main political parties have been
scratching their heads and poring over electoral maps to decide how best to
maximise their return of parliamentary seats, the three smaller parties have a
much more straightforward task in deciding where to deploy their limited
resources.

The Green Party, the UK Independence Party (Ukip) and the British National Party
(BNP) each has one obvious constituency in which to focus their efforts as they
attempt to secure a seat in the Commons for the first time.

It is no surprise that the Green Party, after decades of playing the role of
plucky outsiders, believes the 2010 election offers its best-ever chance of
doing so. Climate change has rocketed up the agenda, while the professionalism
of the party's backroom operation has improved markedly in recent years. As a
result, its support has tripled over the last decade as it has targeted its
efforts at the most winnable seats.

It is a strategy that will be repeated at national level. Insiders believe they
are "within striking distance" in Lewisham Deptford and Norwich South. But in
reality, their efforts are focused on helping their leader, Caroline Lucas,
secure victory in Brighton Pavilion. It is in this middle-class, progressive
constituency, currently held by Labour, that the party has based its target
constituencies team, run by Ms Lucas's campaign manager, Paul Steedman.

Good will seems to be with them, with party officials believing they have more
volunteers out canvassing than either the Tories or Labour. The party has
suffered from tactical voting in the past, with the electorate regarding Green
votes as wasted, but this time it hopes it will be seen as the best chance of
preventing a Tory win in Brighton. Labour's task of holding on to the seat will
be made even tougher as the long-term incumbent, David Lepper, will not be
standing for re-election.

The difficulty, as ever for the party so associated with a single issue, will be
deciding how far to push its other policies. Striking the right balance is the
task of Tracy Dighton-Brown, the party's external communications co-ordinator.
She thinks the Greens should start pushing their broader agenda where they have
already performed well in local and European elections. When she arrived in the
post in September 2008, she conducted a review of all communications sent out by
Green councillors, as well as running focus groups to determine which policies
were playing well with potential voters who had previously backed Labour or the
Liberal Democrats.

The conclusion was that the party should push its ideas on job creation and its
vision of developing a green economy, a positive message that steers away from
the doom-laden prophesies about the dangers of climate change. Pledges on the
NHS and a costed promise to raise the state pension to £175 a week will also be
used to broaden the party's appeal to those pondering whether to back the Greens
for the first time.

For Ukip, the best chance of a Westminster breakthrough will come in the true
blue seat of Buckingham, where the party's former leader, Nigel Farage, hopes to
oust the Commons Speaker, John Bercow. Precedent dictates that the main parties
do not run against the Speaker, but the constituency offers Mr Farage a unique
chance of success.

On the face of it, victory for Mr Farage seems improbable. At the last election,
when the seat was contested by the other parties, Mr Bercow's majority was a
colossal 18,000 votes over Labour; Ukip limped home with just over 1,400 votes.
But Mr Bercow's position on the far-left outposts of the Conservative Party has
led Ukip's leadership to believe that he is vulnerable to an attack from a
candidate who espouses the traditional messages of the Tories.

National strategy is overseen by the party's new leader, Lord Pearson, and the
campaign director, James Pryor, who formerly advised Margaret Thatcher and John
Major. No doubt it is Mr Pryor's involvement that has led Ukip to focus on Tory
heartland issues such as grammar schools and clamping down on crime, as well as
on its popular anti-EU message. However, the profile that Mr Farage has built
for himself, through the odd outburst in Brussels and his aggressive
performances on Question Time, means that he is largely left to run his own show
in his quest to win the Buckingham seat. The party reckons it is his strong
performance at hustings that will win him crucial Tory votes, so the strategy is
simple - long days on the campaign trail.

Recent successes have buoyed party officials. They believe Ukip's strong
performance in the Norwich North by-election last year went largely unreported.
All the attention was on how the Greens would perform, but it was Ukip that made
the biggest leap, with a swing in their favour of nine per cent. The party
secured more than 4,000 votes - only 800 behind the Liberal Democrats, and
enough for them to beat the Greens to fourth place. Resources have already been
found to fight a high-profile campaign in Buckingham, with Stuart Wheeler, the
spread-betting millionaire who has previously donated to the Tories, handing
around £100,000 to Mr Farage's campaign.

Its performance in the election will depend on how well it can present a united
front to voters. The party has already shown it can damage itself with internal
wrangling. Even when Mr Farage was pushing the party's popularity to new highs,
people within the party were plotting to bring him down as leader. The
in-fighting has continued. Nikki Sinclaire, who had been one of 13 Ukip MEPs,
was thrown out of the party earlier this month after she refused to sit with her
party colleagues. She had been protesting at the party's decision to join the
Europe of Freedom and Democracy (EFD) grouping, which she said contained some
politicians harbouring "extreme views".

Finally, what are the prospects for the BNP? Securing two seats in the European
parliament last summer has helped the party enjoy unprecedented levels of media
exposure. It will use that notoriety to launch an assault to win the east London
seat of Barking for its leader and chief strategist, Nick Griffin. The
constituency delivered the party its best-ever general election result in 2005,
when it received a 16.9 per cent share of the vote. It also has nine councillors
in the area.

During the campaign, Mr Griffin will be given a chance to capitalise further
from heightened media coverage. Along with Caroline Lucas and Nigel Farage, he
will be able to respond to the main party leaders' television debates on news
bulletins after the main event.

In an attempt to professionalise the party, Mr Griffin is also taking measures
to improve its handling of the media. Enquiries had previously been handled by
the deputy chairman, Simon Darby. But supporters have been asked to donate
towards the costs of a new communications department designed to fight back
"against media smears". Its website has already been vastly improved by the
party's online manager, Simon Bennett. As well as its vehemently
anti-immigration message, it will again attempt to capture the "anti-politics"
vote at the next election. Incumbent MPs will be attacked for their involvement
in the expenses scandal.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              274 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                 April 7, 2010
                                 First Edition

The target seats;
Every general election has its bellwether constituencies. Rob Sharp takes a tour

BYLINE: Rob Sharp

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 1156 words


Basildon South and Thurrock East

Basildon is the home of the mythical "Essex man" or "white van man" - a term
coined by political commentators to describe a particular variety of
aspirational, white, skilled, working class, council-house-dwelling tabloid
reader who was won over by Margaret Thatcher's promise of social mobility in
1979 but who deserted the Tories in favour of New Labour in 1997. Since the
party's re-election in 2001 he has shifted away from Labour because he feels
that his key concerns - unemployment, social housing, immigration - are not
being addressed. Labour's support may also be undermined by the redrawing of the
constituency's boundaries to exclude central Basildon. A planned deep-sea
container port will also be an important local issue.

Birmingham Edgbaston

With its leafy, affluent, middle-class suburbs, this seat was Tory for most of
its history until the 1997 Labour landslide. It is essentially a microcosm of
middle England; a defeat for the sitting MP, Gisela Stuart, would probably
signal Gordon Brown's departure from Downing Street. Undecided voters may opt
for whichever of the parties is better for their pockets, and the Tory
candidate, Deirdre Alden, is keen to emphasise the local relevance of her
party's inheritance tax policy. The constituency contains the main campus of
University of Birmingham, so Labour's proposed higher education budget cuts will
prove unpopular. However, council estates in some wards may shore up the Labour
vote.

Brighton Pavilion

A bohemian, progressive, central area surrounded by more conventional suburbs
may see the Green leader, Caroline Lucas, win her party's first seat at
Westminster. She offers an appealing record to liberals - one untainted by Iraq,
identity cards and worsening societal inequality - as well as locally popular
environmental credentials. Labour's candidate, Nancy Platts, on the other hand,
comes from an Old Labour union background and distances herself from Gordon
Brown. Charlotte Vere, the Tory hopeful, has joined the party during David
Cameron's leadership and hopes to support failing local businesses.

Buckingham

By convention the Speaker is elected unopposed, and John Bercow, the MP of this
solidly Tory constituency, will not face a Labour or a Liberal Democrat
challenger. Buckingham contains a smattering of affluent villages that helped
him enjoy his party's biggest majority at the last election. But he may face
competition from the former UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who will be hoping to
capitalise on disillusionment over Bercow's role in last year's expenses scandal
- for four years he submitted the highest expenses claim of any Westminster MP -
and on the Speaker's dwindling Tory support.

Edinburgh South West

A Conservative seat through the 1980s and most of the 1990s, Edinburgh South
West fell to Labour in 1997. It is currently the seat of the Chancellor,
Alistair Darling, and therefore has tactical importance. Both parties have
suffered here from the increasing popularity of the Liberal Democrats over the
last three terms. Voters may back away from a Tory challenge to Darling after it
emerged that the "non-dom" Tory party donor Lord Ashcroft financed the party's
2005 candidate, Gordon Buchan. But given the area's mixture of urban, suburban
and rural areas, Darling may lose votes to the Scottish National Party
candidate, Kaukab Stewart.

Islington South & Finsbury

This North London constituency is often labelled as a stamping ground for the
liberal intelligentsia - it was the pre-Downing-Street home of Tony Blair - but
it also contains cash-strapped enclaves. Unsurprisingly it was a New Labour
stronghold throughout the late 1990s. But with an electorate disillusioned with
war in the Middle East, Trident and ID cards, the sitting Labour MP, Emily
Thornberry, might have trouble beating the Liberal Democrat hopeful, Bridget
Fox, this year. In 2005 the Labour lead was less than two percentage points.
Fox's campaign will not be aided, however, by the presence of an unpopular
Liberal Democrat administration at Islington Town Hall.

Luton South

Luton has a long history of manufacturing, so the threatened closure of its
Vauxhall car plant will be a political campaigning point, along with crime and
benefits for the elderly. The 2001 census revealed that a quarter of its
population is non-white, and it has a large Muslim population, so religious
factors (for example a candidate's views on abortion) may be important. The
constituency is normally considered a Labour stronghold, but Margaret Moran, the
party's incumbent MP, will stand down after being "outed" last year for spending
£22,500 of taxpayers' money treating dry rot. Her replacement, Gavin Shuker,
could do well as independents - including Esther Rantzen - may split the vote.

Manchester Withington

Centred on the fashionable Didsbury district, this rich residential area of
South Manchester was traditionally a safe Conservative seat. In the 1980s many
of its newly wealthy residents moved to Cheshire and converted their original
houses into student-style accommodation for academics and young professionals.
As a result Labour won the seat in 1987, and by 2001 the party had a five-figure
majority. But in the last election the Liberal Democrat candidate, John Leech,
won a surprise victory, capitalising on his party's strong presence in local
government, disillusionment over Iraq and fears over the closure of the local
hospital. Voting may well be influenced more by ideology than, for example, by
direct gains through income support.

Milton Keynes South

This middle-class seat, which contains the former code-breaking site at
Bletchley Park, was held by the Tory right-winger Barry Legg until 1997, when it
was taken by Labour. Since then Labour has been steadily losing ground. With
80,000 voters, Milton Keynes South is one of the country's most populous
constituencies. The Labour MP, Phyllis Starkey, claims the important issues
locally are house-building, policing and public services (though her party
arguably has a patchy record in these areas). The Tories' support for
fox-hunting - as well as the party's funding by Lord Ashcroft - has caused
controversy in the local press.

York Outer

This is a new seat encircling the city, consisting of its suburbs, the
surrounding villages and the University of York's campus. The election is
predicted to be a closely fought battle between the Tories and the Liberal
Democrats, though the latter control every council within the constituency. The
Liberal Democrat candidate, Madeleine Kirk, is clearly targeting the student
vote, pledging to oppose future increases in tuition fees, criticising
university funding cuts and pledging cash for local schools. The constituency
has an above-average number of pensioners, so issues like heating benefit could
be important, as could housing and public services. The Liberal Democrats could
also benefit from tactical voting against the Tories.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              275 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 7, 2010 Wednesday 9:59 AM GMT

Chippy grassroots Tories are choking on their class hatred of posh Dave. Do the
idiots want Brown back in power?

BYLINE: By Cristina Odone

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 538 words


As we saw yesterday, Labour is once again playing the class card against
Cameron. I just wish certain Tories would stop doing the same thing against
their leader.Grassroots Conservatives who should be campaigning for election
victory can't move for risk of choking in their own class hatred. The ugly envy
once associated with bearded Lefties in donkey jackets is now haunting parts of
the Tory world.

Look at the comments posted on newspaper websites; listen to the Radio 5 Live
phone-ins. The Bullingdon Club, Eton, the silver spoon in his mouth - the spite
splutters in the posts, or down the telephone line. Dave's had it easy. Dave's a
toff.

The urge to give the posh boy a bloody nose seems to have overcome party
loyalty. Class has trumped ideology; in fact, class risks becoming the new
ideology, just as it once was for Labour. The resentment that used to fuel
Kinnock, Livingstone, and Scargill surfaces now in Tumbridge Wells and
Henley-on-Thames. Labour strategists don't need to stir, Charlie Whelan doesn't
need to plot: "ordinary" voters can't leave Cameron's poshness alone. He's
"upper middle class", "posh boy", "Lord Snooty".

Cameron knows this and tries to parry the blows: hence the desperate
adjustments to his clothes, like yesterday's farcical removal of his smart blue
tie just before he spoke at Leeds City Museum.

But still they go for him - and Sam. As the baronet's daughter, Sam Cameron
attracts particular bile. They attack her for her liberal tendencies and her
supposed Labour sympathies; but her real sin in the class warriors' eyes is her
background. She may talk like the girl at the checkout but she's "posh totty".

Class hatred runs so deep among Tory ranks that it risks turning them against
the one hope they've got to get back in power. Old Labour got over their class
hatred when they saw that a public schoolboy was the best, in fact the only,
candidate to lead them out of the wilderness into No 10. I'm not sure today's
Tory can forgive Dave that he did not stack shelves at Asda. Or Sam that she is
not a hairdresser. Tory voters can't see past the bloke in the posh voice to
grasp his ideas; they can't see past the bird with the titled father to notice
her strength of character.

The danger is that these Tories will vote UKIP before they'll get an OE into No
10. Their hatred of the privileged Notting Hill set is such, they'd rather score
an own goal. Back during the leadership contest, the class-conscious Tories had
championed David Davis. No surprise there: Davis was a chippy working class man,
convinced to the end that the posh boys had cheated him out of his just
desserts, rather than that his own performance had let him down.

The class warriors have history on their side. Who was the last posh
Conservative in No 10? Not John Major, that man of the people. Not Margaret
Thatcher, the greengrocer's daughter. Or Edward Heath, the carpenter's son. No,
to find the last toff Tory Prime Minister you have to go all the way back to
Alec Douglas-Home. But so what? Cameron went to Eton. Get over it.

At least Labour's class warriors are using their tactic to try to win for their
side. The chippy Tories are too stupid to see what they're doing: drumming up
support for Gordon Brown.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              276 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 7, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Schott's General Election Almanac;
A miscellany of psephological facts and curiosities, compiled by Ben Schott

BYLINE: Ben Schott

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 32,33

LENGTH: 3060 words


HUNG PARLIAMENTS

Hung Parliaments arise when no one party emerges from a general election with a
majority of seats. Given the fluidity and informality of the British
constitution, the consequences of a hung Parliament are almost impossible to
foresee. As the constitutional expert Vernon Bogdanor noted, "'hung Parliament'
is a term of art. No two hung Parliaments are the same ... Each hung Parliament
can be quite different from the previous one, and each one poses different
problems."  According to the House of Commons Library, the following elections
of the twentieth century have been "hung": If the .... general election produces
a hung Parliament it is likely that "three wise men" will advise the Queen on
who to invite to form an administration. This constitutional "golden triangle"
consists of the Prime Minister's principal private secretary, the Cabinet
Secretary, and the monarch's private secretary.  Sir Kenneth Stowe (principal
private secretary to Harold Wilson, Jim Callaghan, and Margaret Thatcher) listed
three principles to resolve the uncertainty of a hung Parliament: first, The
Queen's government must be carried on; second, the prime minister appointed by
the sovereign must be able to command a majority in the House of Commons; and
third, the prime minister must be confident of leading or commanding the support
of the majority party in the Commons.

SECRET BALLOT

Despite landowner opposition and public apathy, Gladstone introduced the secret
ballot with the Ballot Act of ....: in an attempt to curtail voter bribery and
intimidation. Although secret ballots helped later to extend the franchise,
their greatest initial effect was in Ireland, where voting in secrecy may have
aided the fortunes of Charles Stewart Parnell.  Britain's first secret ballot
was at a by-election in Pontefract. Rather to its surprise, The Times reported
on September ., ...., "It must in fairness be confessed that the Ballot,
considered as a piece of electoral machinery ... has confuted most of the
criticisms to which it was submitted by anticipation."  Secret ballots are
nowadays enshrined in the European Convention on Human Rights. That said, it is
still possible to identify how an individual voted, since each voter's electoral
number is recorded against the number on their ballot paper - however, the
secrecy of the ballot can be violated only on the order of a court or the House
of Commons.

ANONYMOUS VOTERS

As of June ., ...., victims of stalking and domestic abuse can take their name
offthe electoral roll and vote anonymously. Once a person has proved they are at
risk (eg, via an order under the Protection from Harassment Act ....), the
electoral register is amended to show just their electoral number and the letter
"N".

REJECTED BALLOTS

Returning Officers are advised to "endeavour wherever possible to discern the
intention of the voter" and, if they can, to "attempt to allow, not reject" a
ballot. So, if ballots are marked with something other than a cross, or are not
marked in the correct place, they will be accepted if the Returning Officer is
satisfied that the voter's intention is clear. The decision of the Returning
Officer is final, and can be overturned only by an election petition.  Below are
the five reasons for rejecting a ballot, along with the percentage of the
c...,... ballots rejected at the .... general election:

(Based on incomplete constituency returns.  More than .,... ballots were
rejected in Gloucester alone.)

PURDAH

"Purdah" is the period between the announcement of a general election and
polling day. During this time MPs, civil servants, charities and the media are
bound to ensure that their actions do not gain or give electoral advantage. For
example, MPs are barred from working in the Commons or using its facilities, and
television and radio broadcasters are obliged to ensure political balance in
their output. (The word derives from the Urdu for curtain or veil,"parda". In
some Muslim and Hindu communities, "Purdah" is the custom of screening women out
of sight of men or strangers.)

MULTIPLE SEATS

Candidates may stand for election in any number of seats. In the event that a
candidate wins more than one seat, Parliament decides which they will represent.
In ...., Screaming Lord Sutch stood in three constituencies: in Huntingdon he
lost to John Major; in Islwyn he lost to Neil Kinnock; and in Yeovil he lost to
Paddy Ashdown. Sutch forfeited ..,... in deposits.

THE SPEAKER

Detailed rules govern how party affiliation can be worded on ballot papers, and
the Speaker of the House of Commons is uniquely permitted to use the phrase,
"The Speaker seeking re-election". (In Welsh, "Y Llefarydd yn ailymgeisio".)  By
tradition, the Speaker stands unopposed by the main parties - though this
convention is not always respected. In ...., for example, Speaker Bernard
Weatherill was challenged by both Labour and the SDP in Croydon North East.  The
current Speaker, John Bercow, is expected to face tough competition in
Buckingham from the former UKIP leader Nigel Farage. Mr Bercow is defending (a
Conservative) majority of I8,129.

INELIGIBILITY

The following people cannot vote in a general election: Those under I8

European Union citizens resident in the UK and citizens of any other country
(however, citizens of Commonwealth countries and the Irish Republic may vote if
resident in the UK)

Members of the House of Lords (including life peers, Church of England
archbishops and bishops and hereditary peers in the House of Lords)

Convicted prisoners in jail, or escaped prisoners (remand, unconvicted, and
civil prisoners in default of fine or breach of recognisances may vote)

Anyone found guilty within the previous five years of corrupt or illegal
election practices

There is no literacy qualification to vote. Illiterate voters are entitled to
ask a companion or the polling station's Presiding Officer to fill in the ballot
on their behalf.  Patients in mental hospitals may vote, unless they are
convicted offenders or have been detained under certain sections of the Mental
Health Act .....  Homeless people or those with no fixed abode are entitled to
vote once they have joined the electoral register by making a "declaration of
local connection" to their local electoral registration office.  Although the
Queen can vote, according to the House of Commons Library, to do so would be
"considered unconstitutional"

ELECTORAL GAELIC

The following phrases - handy for the campaign - are from the Scottish
Parliament's dictionary of Gaelic:

Ballot rigging. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . foill-bhaileit
boir

Electoral fraud . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .foill
taghaidh

Her Majesty The Queen . . . . . . . A Mñrachd a' Bhànrigh

Hung parliament. . . . . . . . . . . pàrlamaid gun mhñr-chuid

Husting. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . iomairt
taghaidh

I demand a recount . tha mi ag iarraidh ath-chunntadh

Minority government. . . . . . .riaghaltas na beag-chodach

On-message . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . air-teachdaireachd

On the campaign trail an sàs anns an iomairt-taghaidh

A regrettable occurrence . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . nì doilgheasach

Snap election . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
grad-thaghadh

Spin doctor. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
.dotair-grÈisidh

Tactical vote . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .bhñt
innleachdach

Trade insults. . . . . . . . . inisgean a thilgeil air cach a chÈile

The vote is too close to call . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . .

tha a' bhñt ro fhaisg airson co-dhùnadh ma deidhinn

CORRUPT PRACTICES

The Representation of the People Act .... lists a range of "corrupt practices"
that are punishable by fines and/or terms of imprisonment of up to two years.

BRIBERY

A person is guilty of bribery if they directly or indirectly give any money or
procure any office to or for any voter, in order to induce any voter to vote or
not to vote for a particular candidate; or to vote or refrain from voting.

TREATING

A person is guilty of treating if either before, during or after an election
they directly or indirectly give or provide (or pay wholly or in part the
expense of giving or providing) any food, drink, entertainment or provision in
order to influence any voter to vote or refrain from voting.

UNDUE INFLUENCE

A person is guilty of undue influence if they directly or indirectly make use of
or threaten to make use of force, violence or restraint, or inflict or threaten
to inflict injury, damage or harm in order to induce or compel any voter to vote
or refrain from voting. A person may also be guilty of undue influence if they
act with the intention of impeding or preventing the voter from freely
exercising their right to vote. (Intriguingly, the Electoral Commission notes
that undue influence "can include threats of harm of a spiritual nature".)

PERSONATION

It is an offence for any individual to vote by any means as someone else
(whether that person is living, dead or fictitious).

FALSE APPLICATION TO VOTE BY POST OR BY PROXY

It is an offence to falsely apply to vote by post or proxy with the intention of
depriving another person of a vote or gaining a vote or money or property to
which a person is not entitled.

(Prosecutions must be brought within .. months of the offence, unless
exceptional circumstances exist.)

In September 2009, David Cameron pledged to cut the number of MPs by 10% - from
650 to 585 - which, he claimed, would save some   £15.5million.

DEPOSITS

The Representation of the People Act .... introduced deposits for Westminster
elections to stem the tide of frivolous candidates. Nowadays, each candidate
must deposit .... with the Acting Returning Officer with their nomination
papers. Candidates who poll .. or more of the total votes cast have their
deposits returned; lost deposits are paid into the "consolidated fund" - the
Government's general Bank of England account. At the .... general election,
1,386  candidates (...) lost their deposits - including. Tories and. Lib Dem.
UKIP lost ... deposits, at a total cost of £229,000.

DEAD CANDIDATES

Since 1918, seven constituency polls have been postponed because of a
candidate's death, according to psephologists Colin Rallings and Michael
Thrasher: .... · Colonel Francis Alfred Lucas, the Conservative candidate for
the Kennington Division of Lambeth, died aged .., three days before polling. His
widow stood in his place at an election postponed by six days.

1918  Charles Frederick White, Liberal candidate and former MP for the West
Division of Derbyshire, died aged .. from pneumonia two days before polling.

1923 Henry Yates, Labour candidate for Rugby, died three days before polling.

1929 Walter Windsor, Labour candidate and former MP for Central Hull, died six
days before polling.

1950 Squadron Leader E.L. Fleming, Conservative candidate for Moss Side of
Manchester, died six days before polling, aged .., from thrombosis.

1951 Frank Collindridge, Labour candidate and former MP for Barnsley, died nine
days before polling.

2005 Jo Harrison, Lib Dem candidate for Staffordshire South, died, aged .., five
days before polling.

EXIT POLLS

It is unlawful to publish exit polls (i.e., polls based upon information
supplied by voters after they have voted) before polling stations have closed at
..pm.

DEAD HEAT

Nowadays, in the unlikely event of an "equality of votes" after one or more
recounts (ie, a dead heat), the Returning Officer decides the victorious
candidate by drawing lots. Officers are free to choose any method of chance they
desire, though the Electoral Commission makes a number of helpful suggestions,
including tossing a coin, picking a card from a shuf-fled deck, or pulling a
name from a hat.  Previously, the system was somewhat less serendipitous.
According to The Times, in .... the Conservative and Liberal candidates at
Ashton-under-Lyne both received exactly .,... votes. This deadlock was broken
only when the Mayor cast his deciding vote, for the Tory.

[Sources: Electoral Commission, BBC, Ministry of Justice, Scottish Parliament,
Times Archive, House of Commons Library, Monster Raving Loony Party]

Ben Schott is the author of Schott's Almanac

2010  www.benschott.com

MOST CANDIDATES

The County Durham constituency of Sedgefield saw history made in ...., when ..
candidates stood for election - including the incumbent MP, Tony Blair.

Prior to this, the greatest number candidates to be nominated for the same
constituency was .., when ten people stood against Margaret Thatcher in Finchley
in ..... No candidate has stood unopposed since 1951

Reg Keys, whose son Tom died fighting in Iraq, took ..... of the vote. In his
concessionary address, Keys called on the Prime Minister - who was standing
impassively behind him - to apologise for the war.

RAVING LOONIES

34.454  people have voted for Official Monster Raving Loony candidates at six
general elections since ....: The Official Monster Raving Loony Party Hall of
Fame Website lists a number of "Loony ideas hijacked and introduced by serious
politicians," including these: Reducing the voting age from .. to .. years old.

Abolition of the dog licence.

Legalisation of commercial radio stations. Pedestrianising Carnaby Street to
make it safer. All-day opening of pubs. | Passports for Pets.

Abolition of the ..+ examinations.

Ramps on buses to facilitate access.

Honouring The Beatles with knighthoods.

The most famous Loony, David "Screaming Lord" Sutch, stood for Parliament ..
times (. general and .. by-elections). Other official Loony candidates include:
Jedediah Headbanger, Colonel Cocoa Bean, Mad Cow-Girl, Baron Von Thunderclap,
Lord Lloyd of Loonyshire, Screwy Driver, Bananaman, Dangermouse, Flash Gordon
Approaching, Custard Beast, and Sir Dangerous Dave.

Date Largest party Seats Seats for majority .... jan Liberal ... ... .... dec C.
& Lib. ... ... .... Conservatives ... ... .... Labour ... ... .... feb Labour
... ...

Reason. of rejected votes in .... Lacking the official mark. .. .. .. .. .. ..
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Voting for more than one candidate. .. .. .. .. .. ..
.. . .. If the voter can be identified.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .
Where there is no mark.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Where the voter's
intention is uncertain. .. .. .. .. (Rejected in part. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .) .. }

NUMBER OF MPs Below are the number of MPs, broken down by country, from 1832.
This year, there will be four more MPs: (N) Total Scotland Ireland England Wales
MPs ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. ...... .. .. ... .....
.. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. ...... .. .. ... ..... .. .. .
.... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. ...... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. ..
.. .... .. .. . .... .. .. ...... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... ..
.. . .... .. .. ...... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . ....
.. .. ...... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. ..
...... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. ...... ..
.. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. ...... .. .. ...
..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. ...... .. .. ... ..... .. ..
. .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... ..
.. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. ....
.. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. .
.... .. .. .. .... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. ..
.. .... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... ..
.. ... ..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. ...
..... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. ... ..... ..
.. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. ... ..... .. .. . ....
.. .. .. .... .. .. . .... .. .. .. .... .. .. ...

party candidate votes Labour Tony Blair ..,... Conservative Al Lockwood .,...
Liberal Democrat Robert Browne .,... Independent Reg Keys+ .,... UKIP William
Brown ... National Front Mark Farrell ... Veritas F. Luckhurst-Matthews ...
Independent Berony Abraham ... Monster Raving Loony Melodie Staniforth ... Blair
Must Go Party Jonathan Cockburn ... Senior Citizens Party Terry Pattinson .. The
Pensioners Party Cherri Gilham .. Independent Helen John .. Independent John
Barker .. Independent Julian Brennan ..

Candidates votes ..... .. .. .. .... .. ..,... ..... .. .. .. .... .. ..,...
..... .. .. .. .... .. ..,... ..... .. .. .. .... .. ..,... ..... .. .. .. .
.... .. ..,... ..... .. .. .. .... .. ..,... total. .. . ...... . ..,...

PUBLIC OPINION ON ELECTIONS & VOTING The data below were collected by Ipsos Mori
on behalf of the Electoral Commission, in December .... and ....: Which
statement best describes your attitude .... .... I always vote at general
elections .. .. I sometimes vote at general elections .. .. I never vote at
general elections. . I've not been eligible in the past to vote at a general
election. . Which one of the following is most important when you vote?. . My
vote being safe from fraud or abuse .. .. Voting being easy and convenient to do
- .. Voting being secret (ie, without anyone else knowing how I voted) .. ..
Having a choice of methods to cast a vote (eg, by post or in person) .. ..
Voting being convenient .. - Voting being easy to do .. - Other/don't know/none.
. How confident are you that you know how to cast your vote?. . Confident .. ..
Not very/at all confident. . Do you think election fraud is. . A problem .. ..
Not a very big problem or not a problem .. .. Don't know ... Would you be more
likely to vote if elections were held on a. Weekday - Monday to Friday ..
Weekend - Saturday or Sunday (no difference). Weekend - Saturday more than
Sunday. Weekend - Sunday more than Saturday. Any weekend day .. It would make no
difference ..

Reason. of rejected votes in .... Lacking the official mark. .. .. .. .. .. ..
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .   Voting for more than one candidate. .. .. .. .. ..
.. .. . .. If the voter can be identified.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. ..
. Where there is no mark.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. . Where the
voter's intention is uncertain. .. .. .. .. (Rejected in part. .. .. .. .. .. ..
.. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .. .) }..

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              277 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Fury at migrant invasion

BYLINE: EMMA WALL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 175 words


MIGRANTS are flocking to Britain at a rate of one a minute, according to shock
new figures.

Official statistics show more than 518,000 people moved to the UK last year - an
average of more than 1,400 every day.

The annual number of people granted British citizenship also rose by almost 60%
between 2008 and 2009.

Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage quoted the figures as he attacked the three main
parties for their "dishonest" attitudes towards immigration.

He said: "It is not racist to talk about immigration from a non-racial and
nonsectarian perspective. "But the figures quoted refer to non-EU immigration
and the main parties are all signed up.

"We have a total open-door policy to an unlimited number of people coming to
this country from eastern Europe."

DO WE LET TOO MANY PEOPLE IN?

YES: 0901 030 0986 NO: 0901 030 0987

If you want to use SMS text: Yes text DSYES to 80088 No text DSNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline.Texts cost 25p plus network rate. Lines close
at midnight. Yesterday 96% of readers said they WOULD like to slap a politician.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THE MOVE: Hopefuls

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              278 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury at migrant invasion

BYLINE: by EMMA WALL

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 125 words


MIGRANTS are flocking to Britain at a rate of one a minute, according to shock
new figures.

Official statistics show more than 518,000 people moved to the UK last year - an
average of more than 1,400 every day.

The annual number of people granted British citizenship also rose by almost 60%
between 2008 and 2009.

Former UKIP leader Nigel Farage quoted the figures as he attacked the three main
parties for their "dishonest" attitudes towards immigration.

He said: "It is not racist to talk about immigration from a non-racial and
nonsectarian perspective.

"But the figures quoted refer to non-EU immigration and the main parties are all
signed up.

"We have a total open-door policy to an unlimited number of people coming to
this country from eastern Europe."

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ON THE MOVE: Hopefuls

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              279 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: Diary: The punishment must fit the crime, says an angry Ukip. If only
it were that simple

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 670 words


?It is woe upon woe for Ukip and its leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch as a sting
by reporters from the Sunday Times raises awkward questions about the party's
adherence to the rules governing donations. One more worry for officials, who
were already trying to decide what to do with Paul Wiffen - until last Thursday
Ukip's head in London and parliamentary candidate for Ilford South, but now
suspended after we alerted the party to his racist internet post to
communitycare.co.uk on the subject of asylum. Dealing with him should have been
quite straightforward for leaders who say they were appalled by his intemperate
expression of views on Muslim "nutters" and eastern Europeans, and his opinions
on slavery. In fact, it is proving to be anything but straightforward because,
on examination of their records, the man who - let's reiterate - was head of the
party in London and a prospective parliamentary candidate turned out not to be a
member of the party. His membership lapsed a while back and no one had noticed.
Were he kind enough to bring his subscriptions up to date, the party would be in
a position to expel him and to distance itself completely. But until he does
that, who knows?

?And as further proof that you can't keep a bad man down, we bring the latest
sighting of Andre Walker, the Conservative strategist who departed in disgrace
from Windsor and Maidenhead just three weeks ago having been outed on YouTube
plotting the political assassination of a party colleague. There he is,
bolstering the campaign of Mark Clarke, the rightwinger seeking to oust
transport minister Sadiq Khan in Tooting, south London. It's already a
bare-knuckle contest there, with Clarke having been reprimanded by the local
hospital for making questionable claims, and thus a man of Walker's experience,
with his particular skill set, is to be welcomed. One assumes that by now he has
learned the folly of disparaging fellow party members on the train.

?Renewed murmurings at University College London amid concern about the ease
with which the names and addresses of members of the university's Islamic
Society were handed over to Scotland Yard following the failed bomb attempt on
the airliner in Detroit. In the aftermath of the botched terrorist attack, by a
past present of the Islamic Society, it is feared that thousands of names of
British Muslims are being shared with the CIA. Some students, infuriated by the
donation of their personal data to the war against terror, say they will be
suing. So why was the data made so readily available, possibly illegally,
students demanded of their union in a closed, but minuted, meeting? Because it
was Christmas and there was no one around to advise me either way, confessed the
beleaguered official concerned.

?Come with us to Merseyrail, the self-proclaimed "best performing rail company
in the UK", for an experience that may well be "more than just a journey", as
they say in the ads, but hardly seems likely to lift the spirits. Witness this,
an announcement to passengers on Saturday. "This train is now approaching
Liverpool South Parkway station. For those of you planning to take your leave of
this mismanaged dump of a country, coaches await here to take you to John Lennon
Airport. If you are going on holiday, enjoy yourselves. If you are planning to
emigrate, rest assured, you are making the right decision." Who passed the
microphone to William Hague?

?Finally, amid the cynicism and the woe, a man at peace with himself and at one
with his work. "The main characteristic of metal music, for me, is the
tremendous power that it expresses. It's that power which is designed to sweep
the listener into the sound and to provide a shot of youthful vitality. Metal
music is the most epic of contemporary music genres, and it complements my style
of acting." Sir Christopher Lee (pictured), now 87, appraising Classic Rock
magazine of his latest venture, a symphonic metal album about the warrior king
Charlemagne. Lord of horror. Guitar hero. Bless!

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              280 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

Election countdown: Poll latest: From economy to education, Labour is squeezing
Tory lead

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 686 words


Elections are shaped by two things: trust in party leaders and trust in their
policies. The polls have shown that the Conservatives have done particularly
well in the first battle over the last few years, with David Cameron regularly
more popular in polls than his party. The reverse has been the case for Gordon
Brown - though that may be changed by the TV debates, if anything like the 60%
of voters who say they plan to watch actually do so.

But the policy contest between the two parties has always been more
close-fought. Today's poll suggests it remains tight.

The economy remains a defining issue and one on which the Conservatives retain a
narrow upper hand. In total, 45% of voters pick economic issues as the ones that
will most affect their decision on how to vote next month. That includes 25% who
look at general economic competence, 12% who cite the specific handling of the
economic crisis and 8% who pick tax as an issue.

On all three of these economic issues the Tories retain a small lead over Labour
as the party with the best policies. On most others, especially public services,
Labour has recovered the advantage.

Conservative campaigners may dismiss the narrow gap in voting intentions between
the two parties in today's ICM poll as an Easter aberration. And they will be
pleased by evidence they are gaining ground on the issue of tax - helped perhaps
by their promise not to impose the planned increase in national insurance rates.

They have a five-point advantage over Labour as the party with the best policies
- against a three-point Labour lead in February this year and a three-point
Conservative lead in January 2007. At the 2005 election, Labour led on this
issue by five points.

But that is a rare bright spot for the opposition party in today's poll. On
wider economic management, for instance, the Conservative lead is one point,
against four in February and 11 points in August 2009. On management of the
economic crisis, the Tory lead has dropped to two points from nine in August
2009.

In general, Conservative voters are more concerned by economic issues than
Labour ones - 61% of Tory supporters pick one of the three economic categories
as the thing that most influences their vote.

If Labour is to win back support, it needs to make ground on the economy, which
is why the chancellor and the prime minister have been keen to warn voters about
what they say are the implications of Conservative plans.

By contrast, the Conservatives will want to make headway on the public service
issues that are also concerning voters. Health - the second most important
single issue - is picked by 12% of all voters as their main concern.

Labour has a six-point lead on the issue, against a three-point lead in February
and a 14-point lead at the 2005 election.

On education, Labour is one point ahead, compared with a tie in February and a
four-point Conservative lead in August 2009. At the 2005 election Labour was 10
points ahead.

Voters trust Labour to deliver on care for elderly people - the party's lead is
11 points. But they are instinctively more sure of the Conservatives on
immigration and asylum - a seven-point lead, against 13 points in 2009. On law
and order the Tory lead is eight points.

But campaigning harder on such core value issues is unlikely to win the party
new support.

Few voters cite Europe as the most important issue, for instance, and anyway
Labour has a one-point lead as the party with the best policies on the issue.
The Conservatives need to reassure people who prefer Labour and Lib Dem policies
rather than strengthen their existing right-wing base. The majority of both
Labour and Tory supporters say that their support is firm.

The election battle will be to win over the affections of those who are thinking
of changing sides - and this contest is being fought in the centre ground. Among
current Tory supporters who say they may switch from the party before polling
day, fewer than one in 10 are thinking of backing Ukip. But almost two-thirds
say they could change to Labour or the Lib Dems.

Captions:

On care for elderly people, Labour leads the Tories by 11 points

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              281 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

G2: Shortcuts: English literature: Robina Hood: a mystery:

BYLINE: Tom Meltzer

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 227 words


The United States of Europe are here. Englishness has been outlawed. And the BBC
holds morning prayer meetings to swear loyalty to its European overlords.

Welcome to the satirical sledgehammer of small-mindedness that is Revolt, the
first novel to be published under the pseudonym Robina Hood. It is interesting
for one reason only; the real author is, if the blurb is to be believed, one of
the country's best-loved broadcasters.

Surely, then, her identity is a matter of public interest. People deserve to
know which of the country's best-loved broadcasters is responsible for the
notion of a "quasi-compulsory homosexual experience" at a "Gay Awareness Camp".

An entirely speculative investigation turns up two prime candidates: Carol
Vorderman and Anne Robinson.

Robinson has the Little Englander credentials, having famously put the Welsh
into Room 101. Combine this with her support for fox hunting, and the fact that
Robina is a bit like "Robinson, A", and suddenly it doesn't seem too implausible
that she might have mistaken herself for Ukip's own Orwell.

But Vorderman is also a candidate after her performance as the wicked witch of
the witless on Question Time.

Either way, someone wrote this book, and for all we know they are still out
there, being revered as a national treasure. Now there's a reason to be worried
about the future of the BBC.

Tom Meltzer

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              282 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday

The unpredictable general election

BYLINE: Mehdi Hasanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 434 words

ABSTRACT

Mehdi Hasan: The polls are all over the place and at a local level there are
many intriguing battles being played out

FULL TEXT

And so, finally, at long last, after much , it begins. Hallelujah. The most
anticipated election campaign for . Perhaps the closest election campaign for ,
if not . And,  today, "the most important general election for a generation".

For once, I can't help but agree with him. The future direction of the economy,
and the extent of the recovery; the level of public spending and nature of
reform to public services; the levels of immigration and asylum; our membership
of the European Union; even the 303-year-old union between England and Scotland
- all are at stake on 6 May.

One cabinet minister tells me he has never participated in such an odd,
different and unpredictable election. Consider the various factors that make it
so unusual and unprecedented. The MPs' expenses scandal, which provoked an
enduring "crisis of trust" in our elected representatives, has led to a record
144 MPs standing down and may depress turnout. The worst financial crisis in
living memory, and the ensuing recession, has left the post-cold-war,
cross-party consensus on capitalism and free markets in tatters. Then there are
the three party leaders, all fighting their first general election and preparing
to lock horns in Britain's first televised debates. Meanwhile, the polls are all
over the place - this morning's Guardian/ICM poll gives the Tories  but the
Sun/YouGov poll gives them . Anyone who tells you they know for sure the result
of this election is either a liar or a fool.

And on a local level, as well as at a national level, unpredictability abounds.
Ukip's Nigel Farage is . To borrow a phrase from Henry Kissinger, I hope they
both lose. Another rabble-rouser, , is challenging Labour's Jim Fitzpatrick in
the new but nominally safe east London seat of Poplar and Limehouse. Will we see
another  upset? Then there is the bigoted BNP leader Nick Griffin standing in
Barking and Dagenham against  And don't forget the Greens (isn't it funny how so
much of the media are obsessed with the prospects of a BNP breakthrough, while
ignoring the rise of the Greens?) - their leader  if she wins Brighton Pavilion
on May 6th.

Let the battle begin.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              283 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

I wish I'd had the NI policy to call on as a Tory candidate

BYLINE: Michael Brown

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 773 words


SO TIME has run out for Gordon Brown as he sets off later this morning to
Buckingham Palace for his audience with Her Majesty. The "manure" or "moat"
Parliament will finally be put out of its misery.

Predictions are a mug's game, but here goes: David Cameron will be Prime
Minister in 31 days' time with an overall majority. My bet at the bookies is a
working majority of around 30. The Tory Party has, surprisingly, now won the
pre-election campaign and are clearly the favourites. Of course there will be
bumps along the way - Chris Grayling's anti-gay gaffe will be merely one of many
- but it is hard to see Labour recovering from the opinion poll doldrums at this
late stage.

Labour's average standing in all the polls hovers around 30 per cent - about the
same as the Tories throughout the 1997 campaign. Admittedly in that election, on
this equivalent date, the Independent's Harris poll recorded a Labour lead of 26
per cent (Labour were on 52 per cent) but the anti-government figure stood then
- as now - at about 70 per cent of voters. So the default position of the
electorate is that they want rid of this government and Gordon Brown. Mr
Cameron's task is to ensure that he convinces us that by voting Lib Dem, Ukip,
BNP or Green we could end up precisely with what we have rejected: Mr Brown
remaining Prime Minister by accident.

At last, after a shaky new year, the Tories have armed their candidates with the
ammunition required on the doorstep. It may be dodgy economics but no one can
argue that the proposal to part-reverse Labour's national insurance (NI) tax
increase in 2011 is not smart Tory politics. Already Labour have lost the battle
over George Osborne's credibility, and Lord Mandelson's accusation, that
businessmen who support the Tory proposals have been duped, hints at serious
panic in the Labour high command.

The Tory tax sweetener will not, on its own, necessarily be a winner - but it
provides the opening gambit for any Tory candidate on the doorstep who
previously wondered how to engage sceptical voters. Imagining myself back in
Battery Street, in Immingham (part of the Cleethorpes constituency which I lost
in 1997), this NI proposal is easy to explain and guarantees a hearing.

Few voters will trouble themselves with arcane arguments between the parties
over abstruse issues relating to national debt as a proportion of GDP, deficit
reduction plans, fiscal this or monetary that. "What are you going to do for
me?" is still the most powerful, albeit despairing, demand from the voter who
has the fate of the most menial parliamentary candidate, as well as the party
leaders, in their hands for a few weeks.

Of course, once a voter has been engaged their natural scepticism of
politicians' promises kicks in. The bribe is treated with caution and the rest
of the party package is soon under scrutiny. "But your mob is led by that rich
posh toff who doesn't know how the other half lives" is bound to be thrown at
many Tory canvassers over the next four weeks.

Mr Cameron now has, however, a plausible answer to this charge following the
launch, last week, of his Big Society programme. I attended his one-day
conference, involving over half his shadow Cabinet, initially determined that it
was part of the "voodoo" politics - so beloved of some in his inner circle who
are obsessed with image and who brought us "hug a husky" and "hug a hoodie"
during the "let sunshine win the day" early phase of of his leadership.

But even an old dinosaur, like me, so yearning for the Thatcher Tory Party of
yesteryear, was persuaded that there is something, in this "Big Society - not
big Government" theme which may define a Cameron Government.

Essentially it is a model which recognises the limits of the state's ability to
help poorer citizens and seeks responsible participation in society from
everyone - through personal, civic and corporate engagement. Ironically, the
case for this call to arms for the population to come together to solve problems
and improve life for themselves and their communities, has a greater relevance
in a recession than when Mr Cameron first outlined such thoughts during the
"sunshine" phase of his early leadership.

Even Philip Hammond, the impressive Tory bean counter who will have the task, as
Chief Secretary, set out with clarity how a nation reliant on community action
could reduce demands on the taxpayer, thereby improving efficiency in public
services. This is an idea that may make politicians more ready to turn the
tables by challenging voters on the doorstep, in future, by throwing back the
question "but what are you going to do for society?"

mrbrown@talktalk.net

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              284 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 6, 2010 Tuesday 6:44 PM GMT

General Election 2010: what the parties agree on - climate change and the green
economy

BYLINE: By Geoffrey Lean

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 499 words


Amid all the clashing of policies that we can expect over the next four weeks,
one important set of issues - though much debated of late - will remain
uncontentious, at least among the major parties. Despite all the furore over
climate science following the hacking and hyping of the University of East
Anglia e-mails - and despite apparent growing scepticism among the public - all
the three main parties fully accept that humanity is causing global warming and
that urgent action must be taken to combat it.

They also agree on something truly radical: that future economic growth must be
increasingly green, not just to minimize climate change, but as the best way to
ensure sustainable prosperity. This is an extraordinarily rapid development: at
the last general election, just five years ago, the idea was scarcely on the
political map. But now the only real disagreement among the main parties is
about who is doing most to bring about the low carbon economy.

Labour points to an influx of "green jobs" over the last few weeks - such as
through announcements by General Electric and Siemens that they will establish
factories in Britain to build offshore wind turbines. The Conservatives brandish
the 'low carbon industrial strategy' they launched early last year, the most
comprehensive set of policies of any party. And the Liberal Democrats can justly
claim to have pioneered thinking about green growth in British politics. The
degree of consensus was evident when the Government announced plans for a Green
Investment Bank in the Budget: the only note of discord from the Tories and
LibDems was to claim that they had put forward the idea first.

Nor is there that much dissent to be found in the minor parties. The Greens, of
course, broadly endorse the main parties' consensus , though they propose more
far-reaching action. The Welsh and Scots nationalist parties have long been
green. UKIP offers climate sceptics and rejectionists something of a refuge,
though even it pulls its punches, 'accepting climate change', saying that
'global warming may be a threat' - while adding that there is 'no agreement
about it's extent' or 'the degree to which greenhouse emissions from humans are
the cause' - and urging, that, 'we must cut back on the burning of fossil fuels'
anyway.

Only the BNP endorses the full climate rejectionist position, agreeing that
global warming 'ceased in 1998', accusing scientists of 'falsification and
manipulation of evidence', calling carbon dioxide 'plant food', and alleging
that the 'bogus claims of global warming' are all part of a plan to increase
taxes and promote 'international forums of governance.' And even the most
committed rejectionists will hardly welcome its support.

Few of the policies that will be on display over the next month would affect the
future more, or do more to change Britain, than the proposed measures to tackle
climate change or build a green economy. But we are unlikely to hear them much
debated during this election campaign.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              285 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Time for audience to vote on reality TV that really will determine the future;
THE AGENDA 2010 Your need-to-know guide to what's ahead

BYLINE: Martin Barrow

SECTION: BRITAIN;NEWS; Pg. 1,2,3,4

LENGTH: 3964 words


It's just what Simon Cowell ordered: a television show to decide who will be the
next Prime Minister. The wannabes will be on stage before a live audience, doing
everything they can to win support, while millions of viewers at home will cast
their votes for their favourites. As the reality TV show hosts are bound to say,
it really is too close to call, and your vote does matter.

Television will play a key role like never before in this general election, with
live debates between the main party leaders taking place for the first time.
Gordon Brown goes to the Palace today to call the election for May 6 and three
televised debates will be shown on ITV, Sky and the BBC; on April 15, 22 and 29.
The effect of these on the campaign will be profound: the election itinerary
will revolve around each debate, which will be themed, in turn, on home affairs,
foreign affairs and the economy. It is USstyle politics, and not surprisingly
the main parties have sought advice and support from seasoned American political
strategists. Westminster will decamp to Birmingham, Manchester and Bristol, with
all leaders taking their teams with them to the venue. Broadcasters will set up
media centres in each city and the build-up to the evening's exchanges will
dominate that day's coverage.

Traditional campaigning will take place in between the debates, no doubt, but
the pace and tone will be determined, to a large extent, by the perceived
outcome of the debates. The TV exchanges will be reprised ad nauseam: the killer
punchlines will become part of the election vernacular, the gaffes will be
posted and enjoyed on YouTube. By election day, pundits may be able to point to
a particular moment of television gold when the election was won or lost. Will
there be a "You're no Jack Kennedy" moment? This is the most eagerly contested
election since 1997, when Labour ended 18 years of Conservative rule. A year ago
Labour looked dead and buried, with some polls showing a double digit lead for
David Cameron's Conservatives. But against all expectations, and despite at
least two aborted efforts to remove Mr Brown from the Labour leadership, the
Prime Minister will call the election believing that he has, at least, a
fighting chance of winning a fourth consecutive election for his party.
Themoodis volatile, pointing to the possibility of a hung Parliament. Labour
excitement grew a week or so ago when the poll lead narrowed to four or five
points. But in recent days the gap has widened again. All parties have
everything to play for.

If the election fails to produce a clear winner, the kingmaker is likely to be
Nick Clegg, the leader of the Liberal Democrats. What price will he demand for
his support? Electoral reform, almost certainly, with a referendum on some form
of proportional representation, which has already been promised by Labour.
Whatabout anew Chancellor in a Brown government? Step forward Vince Cable, the
Lib Dem spokesman on the economy, and the politician that most voters appear to
trust to steer Britain out of recession. All speculation, of course. What we do
know is that a Conservative government would hold an emergency Budget within six
weeks of taking office. George Osborne, the Tories' Chancellorin-waiting, has
promised to repeal some of the measures announced in last month's Labour Budget,
and to accelerate cuts in public spending.

Whatever the outcome of the election, a spring of industrial unrest is
inevitable. Already unions are involved in action at British Airways and on the
railways. As the scale of cutbacks in public spending becomes apparent, Civil
Service unions are already threatening strikes across the public sector to
safeguard jobs and pay. Financial markets, which are likely to remain volatile
so long as political uncertainty is unresolved, will punish the first sign of
prevarication over public spending cuts, posing an early test for the
Chancellor's new financial team at No 11. It will also test the mettle of the
most inexperienced Parliament in modern times, with a record number of MPs due
to stand down at the election in the wake of the expenses scandal, which ended
the careers, and reputations, of many politicians. A new regime is being
introduced to oversee the financial affairs of MPs, promising a much more
equitable and robust system of governance under Sir Ian Kennedy. Yet whether
voters will trust Sir Ian enough to set aside their disdain for Westminster to
actually vote in the general election remains to be seen.

One suspects that, if May 6 is not writ large in many diaries, the date of June
12 will be. England's opening match in South Africa 2010 will take place at
Rustenburg against the United States. In the aftermath of the election,
politicians will welcome an event that deflects attention from their own
travails. Success for England could lift the mood of the nation during difficult
times. Conversely, an early exit will focus minds on Westminster and the
country's economic malaise once again. One thing is sure: more viewers will
watch England v US than Brown v Cameron.

April

6 Social services Aserious case review into Khyra Ishaq, seven, who starved to
death in Birmingham in May 2008, is published this month.

Crime

Kent Police will appoint a new chief constable to replace Mike Fuller this
month. Mr Fuller is taking up the post ofHMChief Inspector of CPS.

Courts

Otolose Loloahi Tapui, the Attorney General's ex-cleaner, faces immigration
charges at Southwark Crown Court.

Entertainment

Lap dancing clubs are classed as sexual entertainment venues from today and must
apply for new local authority licences.

Justice

The Sentencing Guidelines Council and the Sentencing Advisory Panel merge into
the Sentencing Council to guide judges on criminal penalties.

7 Technology

The Gadget Show Live opens at the NEC at Birmingham featuring new developments
in computing, photography, phones, home entertainment and in-car technology. To
April 11

8 Households

Social Trends Statistics 2010 are published. The General Household Survey gives
a snapshot ofUKlife, including education, health, consumer habits, income and
migration.

9 Royalty

Prince Charles&Camilla Parker Bowles celebrate their fifth wedding anniversary.

12 Courts

Jack Tweed, Jade Goody's widower, goes on trial at Snaresbrook Crown Court
accused of rape.

Ireland

Devolution of policing and justice powers from Westminster to the Northern
Ireland power-sharing Executive takes place.Anew justice ministry will be
created.

Science

Special general meeting of the Royal Institution to discuss a vote of no
confidence in its ruling council over its decision to make Baroness Greenfield
redundant as its director.

13 Education

National Union of Students annual conference at The Sage in Gateshead, Tyne and
Wear.

14 Courts

Five companies, including Total UK, go on trial at St Albans Crown Court over
the Buncefield oil depot explosion in December 2005.

Social affairs

Annual conference of the British Psychological Society at Stratford-upon-Avon.
The actor Simon Russell Beale will tell delegates how he uses psychological
methods to understand the Shakespearean characters he plays. To April 16

Culture

Dan Dare is 60 years old. Drawn by Frank Hampson, the space hero first appeared
in the Eagle today in 1950.

15 Politics

First of three live general election TV debates involving the three party
leaders will be shown on ITV.

Crime

The Home Office publishes details of all arrests for crimes by offence including
the age and sex of the suspect.

16 Leisure

AGMof Campaign for Real Ale at Douglas on the Isle of Man. Local beers will be
quaffed in a Viking-themed bar. To April 18

19 Courts

Trial of Omari Roberts, 23, at Nottingham. He is accused of killing Tyler Juett,
17, who was burgling his mother's house.

Literature

The London Book Fair opens at Earls Court. Authors attending include Ian Rankin
and Hilary Mantel. To April 21

Courts

Ten men on trial at Woolwich Crown Court over a £40 million robbery at Graff
Jewellers. Nothing has been recovered.

20 Courts

Delroy Grant, 52, arrested by police hunting the "night stalker", appears at
Inner London Crown Court accused of 5 rapes, 6 indecent assaults and 11
burglaries.

Entertainment

The London Burlesque Festival opens at various venues around the capital. To
April 25

21 Royalty

The Queen's 84th birthday. She was born in Mayfair. Her official birthday is
June 17.

22 Politics

Second of the three general election live TV debates featuring the three party
leaders will be on Sky.

Crime

The Home Office publishes final quarter 2009 crime statistics. The figures will
show whether proactive work by the police has continued to prevent a recession
crime wave.

23 Culture

St George's Day. Flags of St George will appear on houses and cars around
England to honour a rather neglected saint.

Courts

Fiona Donnison, 43, appears at Lewes Crown Court accused of murdering her two
children Harry, three, and Elise, two.

25 Charity

The Virgin London Marathon, billed as the largest annual fundraising event in
the world.

26 Courts

The inquest into the victims of the 7/7 terrorist attacks stages a hearing at
the High Court to review how it should proceed.

Business

Adam Crozier takes over as Chief Executive of ITV after standing down from his
job as boss of the Royal Mail.

Courts

Peter Harvey, a teacher, is due for trial in Nottingham accused of the attempted
murder of a pupil, 14, during a lesson.

27 Education

Independent Schools' Council census published. It will reveal class sizes, pupil
numbers and ethnic diversity.

28 Courts

Inquest on fashion designer Alexander McQueen, who died in his Mayfair flat,
resumes at Westminster Coroners Court.

Entertainment

Sci-Fi-London, a film festival devoted to science fiction and fantasy genres, is
held at the Apollo, Regent Street. To May 3

29 Politics

Last of the three leaders' general election live TV debates will be on the BBC.

30 Education

National Association of Head Teachers holds its annual conference in Liverpool.

Religion

The Baptist Assembly of 2010 is held at Plymouth Pavilions in Plymouth.

Crime

Figures published on the number of lifers recalled to prison last year after
breaching terms of their release.

May

1 Countryside

Abadger cull to protect cattle from TB in an area north of the
Pembrokeshire/Ceredigion border expected to start in May.

5 Military

The 30th anniversary of the SAS storming the Iranian Embassy in London to end a
siege by Arab separatists.

6 Politics

The expected general election date. Labour currently has a notional majority of
48.

9 Charities

Christian Aid Week. The charity has been hit hard by the recession and
desperately needs to raise funds during this week for its work in the developing
world.

10 Courts

Alan McMullan goes on trial in Hull accused of the murder of a stranger to
him-Claire Wilson and her unborn child.

Entertainment

Bono, the lead singer of rock group U2, celebrates his 50th birthday.

Courts

Three teenage boys due to go on trial at Truro Crown Court accused of killing a
woman in a fire started by putting a firework through her letterbox.

Police

Association of Chief Police Officers summer conference is held in Manchester.

14 Education

The last day to submit suggestions, under a "call for proposals" from Lord
Browne's review of higher education funding. His findings will be published
later this year.

17 Social affairs

Launch of national fostering week and appeal for more people to come forward and
look after children in care to address the 10,000 shortage.

Unions

The train drivers union, Aslef, holds its annual conference in Swansea. To May
21

18 Police

The Police Federation of England and Wales holds its annual conference in
Bournemouth.

24 Leisure

Chelsea Flower Show press and VIP preview day. It opens to public on May 25 with
700 exhibitors and 50 charity gardens. To May 29

25 Courts

The computer hacker Gary McKinnon goes to the High Court to try to overturn a
ruling to extradite him to the US.

27 Military

Report on the manning and composition of theUKRegular Forces, Full Time Reserve
Personnel and Gurkhas.

Immigration

The Home Office publishes control of immigration figures for the first quarter
of the year. They will show whether asylum applications are rising and if the
number of East Europeans registering for work is continuing to fall.

28 Entertainment

The British Association of Barbershop Singers holds its annual convention in
Harrogate. To May 31

30 Education

University and College Union conference in Manchester. Cuts to higher education
and university staff redundancies will be discussed.

June

1 Royalty

Princes William and Harry are expected to make their first joint tour with a
visit to South Africa during the World Cup.

4 Courts

Marek Daniluk, 41, due to stand trial in Westminster accused of stalking the
film actress Keira Knightley.

9 Science

The Times Cheltenham Science Festival opens with guest directors Heston
Blumenthal and Brian Cox. Events include Paul Davies on the search for
extra-terrestrial intelligence, the future of cancer treatment, and chocolate
science. To June 13

10 Royalty

The Duke of Edinburgh celebrates his 89th birthday today. There will be a gun
salute at the Tower of London and at Hyde Park.

12 Royalty

Trooping the Colour is staged on HorseGuards Parade for the Queen's official
birthday.There is also a flypast by the RAF.

Crime

Ministry of Justice publishes its 2008 report showing how black and other ethnic
groups are represented as suspects, offenders and victims in the criminal
justice system.

14 Religion

The Archbishop of Canterbury, Dr Rowan Williams, is 60 today

17 Military

Falklands Memorial Day. The annual service of remembrance features a military
parade and marchpast in The Mall.

Education

Teach First awards for the best young graduates working in challenging schools
after fast-track teacher training.

18 Courts

Trial of Iman Yousef, 24, in Birmingham. She is charged with murdering her
daughter Alia Jama, 3, whose body was found in February at a house in Erdington,
West Midlands.

Northern Ireland

Tour of the North. The Orange Order parade in north Belfast may provoke conflict
with local Catholics.

21 Leisure

The restored Italian garden and 19th-century conservatory at Chiswick House,
London, opens to the public.

Health 22

Pacific Health Summit, London. Leaders from science, industry and politics
discuss maternal and newborn health. To June 24

Politics

John Bercow was elected Speaker of the House of Commons one year ago today
following an early day motion of no-confidence in his predecessor, Michael
Martin.

24 Religion

Methodist Conference begins in Portsmouth. The future of the religion is on the
agenda after suggestions that members might vote themselves out of existence for
the sake of church unity.

Education

Michael Arthur, Vice-Chancellor of Leeds University and chairman of the Russell
Group, addresses the Westminster Education Forum on the future of universities.

25 Science

10th anniversary of the completion of the Human Genome Project.

26 Northern Ireland

Whiterock Parade. The march coul be a flashpoint for conflict between the Orange
Order and republicans in west Belfast.

30 Heritage

English Heritage publishes its latest Heritage at Risk report, which looks at
the condition of listed places of worship.

Window on Britain

37 number of barbershop singing groups entering the British Association of
Barbershop Singers Convention competition to be held at Harrogate. May 28-30

Evesham site of the month-long British Asparagus Festival, which starts on April
23 - St George's Day

150mph average speed of an arrow from a modern bow. The Grand National Archery
Society has its annual meeting on April 17 at Lilleshall National Sports Centre,
Shropshire

Pontypridd birthplace of Thomas Jones Woodward - better known as the singer Sir
Tom Jones. He will be 70 on June 7

205,000 membership of the National Federation of Women's Institutes, which has
its AGM at Cardiff International Arena on June 2. Members will be entertained by
the Welsh choir Only Men Aloud

Newcastle upon Tyne venue for the fourth International Plagiarism Conference.
Topics to be discussed at the University of Northumbria include "addressing
non-traditional learning styles" June 21-23

16 number of double-decker buses that Robbie Knievel, son of daredevil Evel, is
scheduled to jump at Wembley Stadium on May 22 in an attempt to outdo his late
father by three bus lengths

24 number of episodes of The Archers recorded in six days a month at the BBC's
Pebble Mill Studios in Birmingham. On May 29 the radio soap notches up 60 years

1916 year the Royal College of Nursing was founded. Its annual congress is held
from April 25-29 in Bournemouth with almost 4,000 delegates

1968 first Isle of Wight pop festival, headlined by Marc Bolan of T. Rex. This
year's festival is to be headlined by the ultimate in rock royalty, Sir Paul
McCartney. June 11 to 13

1,700ft maximum theoretical height for an individual lift. Above that the hoist
ropes become too heavy. Liftex, the British lift and escalator industry's
exhibition, is on May 12 at the ExCeL Centre, East London

Norwich birthplace of Philip Pullman, author of His Dark Materials. He and the
Booker Prize winning novelist Hilary Mantel are among the literary stars
attending the Cambridge Wordfest. April 9-11

Crystal Palace venue for a Boy Scouts rally in 1909. It was invaded by a group
of girls who told Lord Baden Powell they wanted to join. The Girl Guides was
officially founded on May 31, 1910

5ft 6in height of the Commons Speaker John Bercow, who celebrates a year in the
job on June 22. The MP for Buckingham is, unusually for a Speaker, facing a
challenge for his seat at the general election from UKIP

In-tray

Politics

Assuming there is a clear-cut result after what promises to be the closest
election since 1992, Gordon Brown or David Cameron will appoint a Cabinet over
the weekend of May 8. ABrown government would keep Alistair Darling as
Chancellor, but other ministers would be switched. Mr Cameron would have the
team of his choice. His Chancellor, George Osborne, would start on the quickfire
Budget that he has promised in 50 days, one that will contain far more detail
about the spending cuts pain ahead than he was prepared to admit in the election
campaign. If there is no outright majority, Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat
leader, will take centre stage. Will his price for a coalition be a Cabinet
place if Mr Cameron is ahead? Will it be a referendum on PR if Mr Brown leads?

Health

The main parties are promising to ring-fence frontline health budgets, and will
only go as far as mentioning "efficiency savings" and cuts to management. The
reality will be different. The fiscal squeeze will force a streamlining of
services-expect cuts, reconfigurations and mergings of hospital departments. It
will take a brave politician to buck the "save our hospital" trend-votes come
with unswerving support of the NHS, including its weak and bankrupting
backwaters. But bravery will be needed if NHSstandards are to be maintained and
enhanced, and not diluted by budgetary meltdowns.

University places

Hundreds of thousands of school leavers and older people are applying for
university this year, exceeding last year's record number of applications. Yet
there are 6,000 fewer spaces on degree courses for 2010. Universities UKpredicts
that at least 200,000 could be left without a place. The sharpest rise in
applications has been from mature students returning to education in the
recession.

Defence

The defence review after the election is supposed to be foreign-policy led, but
there are fears that financial constraints will be the chief concern. The review
will examine the shape of conflict in the 21st century and the military
capabilities that Britain needs to maintain, enhance or acquire to be able to
respond. Everything should be on the table-from aircraft carriers, jets, nuclear
submarines and even the numbers of troops-when looking at what areas should
shrink or go to free up funds to focus on getting the best from a military with
limited resources.

Legal aid

The £2.1 billion a year legal aid scheme is going to be one of the headaches of
public sector spending. Moves to cut fees paid to lawyers for criminal and
family legal aid have been attacked, with the profession believing that the
limits of efficiencies have been reached-and that further cuts will drive the
best lawyers to other work, leading to miscarriages of justice and hitting
vulnerable families and children.

Five to watch

Rachel Wolf

Ms Wolf, 24, started the New Schools Network (NSN) last year modelled on the
Charter Schools Centre, which helps people to set up charter schools in the US,
and is advising 350 groups of parents, teachers, charities and educational
providers on how to set up new schools. She has worked for the Tories-for both
Boris Johnson and Michael Gove, the Shadow Schools Secretary-but says she is
non-political.

The NSN has cross-party backing, and its advisers include two Blairites:
Baroness Morgan of Huyton and Julian Le Grand. Labour changed the law several
years ago to allow parents to sponsor new schools and Ms Wolf has acted as
"midwife", putting groups campaigning for them in touch with educational
charities or companies that run schools, and heads and teachers interested in
working in them -the aim is to encourage new schools in areas of high
disadvantage, where poorer parents currently have the least choice of good
schools.

Matthew Hancock

The likely next MP for West Suffolk will either be the most influential or the
most loathed backbencher in the Tory party within weeks -and quite possibly
both. Mr Hancock, 31, ex-Oxford, ex-Bank of England, will hope to make the
transition from backroom boy- he was George Osborne's chief of staff- to
frontline star. He will be in a minority of believers in Mr Osborne on the back
benches, but a glittering career awaits if learns to play nicely with colleagues
on a less automatically stellar trajectory than him.

David Ford

The Leader of the Alliance Party, which classifies itself as neither Unionist
nor Nationalist/Republican, is tipped to be Northern Ireland's first Justice
Minister in more than 40 years. English-born, Mr Ford, 59, created controversy
last month when an e-mail he sent to a Liberal Democrat in which he described
the Bloody Sunday Inquiry as "pointless", was leaked. He apologised to the
families of the victims but insisted that the inquiry had "enriched lawyers but
not necessarily achieved anything for the families".

Michael Spurr

Mr Spurr, 48, steps into one of the toughest jobs in Whitehall when he takes
over in June as director-general of the National Offender Management Service
(Noms), which is effectively the combined prison and probation services. He will
take over from Phil Wheatley in the middle of a huge prison building programme
and will have the difficult job of defending both services when things go wrong.
A graduate of Durham University, he joined the Prison Service as an officer in
Leeds jail before swiftly moving up the ranks.

Tony Hales

The 62-year-old chairman of British Waterways has the task of organising the
handover of 2,200 miles of canals and rivers back to the public and out of
direct state control by creating a national trust for the waterways. The former
chief executive at Allied Lyons and Domecq has reinvented himself as chairman
ofBWand also of Navy, Army and Air Force Institutes, more commonly known as the
NAAFI. He is also part-time chairman of Workspace, a property company that
provides 4,500 businesses with accommodation in London. A keen footballer, and
former director of Aston Villa, he still plays as goalkeeper for a
Stratford-upon-Avon team. But it is a passion for waterways that has propelled
the father of three into the public spotlight, and he likes nothing better than
to walk along towpaths chatting to boating enthusiasts. He has even given up
part of his £50,000 a year pay to fund some work by canal volunteers.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              286 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brown launches his campaign offensive in the borderline battlefields of Kent

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 607 words


At the Battle of Britain memorial above the White Cliffs of Dover yesterday, Ann
and Cliff Jarvis voiced admiration for the growling defiance of the Prime
Minister. They were not talking about Winston Churchill, though, but Gordon
Brown.

"He's been through a lot, hasn't he?" said Mr Jarvis. "I think Brown must be
better than the impression he gives." His wife agreed: "The pressure he has been
under would have made most people buckle." But both remain undecided about who
to support in next month's election. "I don't know whether Labour is in the
pocket of the unions," said Mr Jarvis. "We're still making up our minds."

Mr Brown will need their support if he is to prevail, or even cling on in a hung
Parliament. And his own backsagainst-the-wall defence, like the Battle of
Britain 70 years ago, will begin in Kent.

Today the Prime Minister is expected to travel via the high-speed rail link
through the county. It is not just that it is the type of expensive
infrastructure investment that he loves so much, but Kent is where a string of
super-marginal seats, beginning with Dartford and ending at Dover, can be found.
In between are five more: Rochester & Strood, Gillingham & Rainham, Chatham
&Aylesford, Sittingbourne & Sheppey and Thanet South.

Together, they form the South East's "corridor of uncertainty". These seats were
won by Labour in 1997 and have been targeted by the Conservatives ever since. As
long ago as 2001 Labour strategists feared annihilation across Kent over the
immigration issue. But with the exception of Gravesham five years ago, all have
remained unconquered.

Boundary changes will make the Tories' job easier this time, with several of
these constituencies now showing small notional Tory majorities. Labour's margin
in the four that remain ranges from barely 500 to just over 5,000. Three of its
sitting MPs have announced that they are quitting Parliament.

Even so, in Sittingbourne High Street yesterday, in a seat where Labour's
majority was only 79 at the last election, there was still some encouragement
for the party.

Ralph Lambert, known locally as the "whistling postman", who raises money for
charity, was sitting on a bike bedecked with the Union Jack and the Cross of St
George. "I'll certainly vote Labour again," he said cheerfully. "I don't like
Cameron, I don't trust him." Dale Howting is also sticking with Labour on
"better the devil you know" grounds.

There is palpable anger across these tough, peeled-paint, North Kent towns
towards expenses-tainted politicians of every hue. In Chatham, a man rolled down
the window of his van to shout abuse about Tony Blair. Some youths across the
street, seeing The Times photographer, chanted "BNP! BNP!". But voters walked
past a Tory advertising billboard without a glance.

Douglas Fraser-Hague, 51 and out of work, said: "Anglo-Saxon people are now a
minority in this town. I've always been a Conservative but Cameron doesn't talk
about immigration. He's not in the real world, or a patch on Maggie Thatcher. I
might go for UKIP." Dartford, a weathervane constituency that has backed the
winner at every election since 1964, has a notional Labour majority of only 583.
In its high street Paul Budden, 27, was eating a large iced bun. He will
probably vote Conservative if only by default.

"None of the parties is worth much, but we need a change," he said.

Back in Dover, James Berry said that he would support the party that "convinces
me that it will get us out of this mess". He then stared at the centrepiece of
the war memorial: a contemplative stone pilot surrounded by embankments
symbolising a propeller. In other words, in the middle of the spin.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The way ahead is unclear for undecided voters Cliff and Ann Jarvis,
visiting the Battle of Britain memorial in Dover
JACK HILL FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              287 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

Ukip reveals tips on party donors in tape sting

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 222 words


Ukip's party leader and an MEP have been recorded on tape describing how to get
around the rules on donations set out by the Electoral Commission.

The Sunday Times recorded Stuart Agnew describing how donors could funnel money
into the party in secret by passing tens of thousands of pounds through
intermediaries.

The MEP was recorded as saying: "I've spoken to Nigel Farage (Ukip MEP and
former party leader) and he says at the moment you can put £25,000 into Global
Britain and you will remain anonymous." Agnew suggested that by channelling
funds through Global Britain, an unincorporated association set up by Lord
Pearson in 1997, the donor could remain incognito.

When another undercover reporter asked Pearson if he could guarantee the donor's
name would not come out, he said: "Yes, we did it in the European elections (in
2009). We passed on £80,000 from one person in effect . . . and that caused no
difficulty at all."

Last night, Ukip confirmed it received £80,000 last year, via Global Britain,
for the European election campaign from Patrick Barbour, a Taxpayers' Alliance
backer, who wished to remain anonymous.

The statement said: "This anonymous donation was at the time perfectly legal and
within the guidelines set down by the Electoral Commission. This donation was
fully disclosed by Ukip in the second quarter of 2009."

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              288 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

The multicultural Christian right

BYLINE: Andrew Brownguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 768 words

ABSTRACT

Andrew Brown: The launch of a Christian programme for the general election and
beyond is a significant political development, not a good one

FULL TEXT

Just in time for the election, we can watch the emergence of a fairly coherent
rightwing bloc in British Christianity. It is nationalist, socially
conservative, suspicious of markets, critical of Islam, authoritarian ... but
what distinguishes it from Ukip, or even the BNP, is that it has a large and
powerful black membership. The figureheads of the movement are two retired
Anglican bishops, Lord Carey, who used to be archbishop of Canterbury and still
carries on as if he ought to be, and Dr Michael Nazir-Ali, who resigned last
year as bishop of Rochester.

Along with Cardinal Keith O'Brien, the head of the Roman Catholic church in
Scotland, they are the most prominent signatories to the  which was publicised
on Sunday. But when you look down the list of 30 or so signatories, almost all
of them representing groups you have never heard of, the most significant fact
is that a quarter of them are black or representing black-led churches, and
almost all would agree that the most dynamic Christianity in the world today is
African.

This has implications both for both church and secular politics. The style of
African Christianity is energetic, aggressive, self-confident and
supernaturalist. It hates Islam, which is seen as a global threat; and it
despises effete western liberalism.

The programme of the new group is obviously influenced by the American culture
wars. It is resolutely anti-abortion ("We pledge to work to protect the life of
every human being from conception to its natural end") and homophobic ("We
pledge to support marriage - the lifelong, covenantal union of one man and one
woman as husband and wife. We believe it is divinely ordained, the only context
for sexual intercourse"). In fact, this wording would commit them to rejecting
second marriages as well, but everyone knows what it really means. But there is
also a great deal that would never pass the filter of US Republican
anti-political correctness, as these churches support:

"all those who are ... threatened by environmental change, or exploited by
unjust trade, aid or debt policies ... sick, disabled, addicted, elderly, in
single parent families, poor, exploited, trafficked, appropriately seeking
asylum."

The policy on asylum seekers is particularly interesting. This is one of the
great divides between left- and rightwing Christianity in the UK. Lord Carey has
to immigration. So watch that little word "appropriately". It stands for the
beginnings of a religious test on immigration policy. Muslim immigration makes
these people very nervous, but poor Christians, especially fleeing from
persecution in Muslim countries, should, they believe, be welcomed.

The other distinctive character of this call is its assumption of martyrdom:

"We refuse to comply with any directive that compels us to participate in or
facilitate abortion, embryo-destructive research, assisted suicide, euthanasia,
or any other act that involves intentionally taking innocent human life. We will
support those who take the same stand."

Says the declaration, and echoes this later:

"We refuse to submit to any edict forcing us to equate any other form of sexual
partnership with marriage ... We will not be intimidated by any cultural or
political power into silence or acquiescence and we will reject measures that
seek to over-rule our Christian consciences or to restrict our freedoms to
express Christian beliefs, or to worship and obey God."

It's not clear what any of this posturing actually means in practice. But
emotionally, it's quite clear. Christians in Britain are to behave as a
persecuted minority, avid for injustice, watching the papers eagerly for signs
that some other group is getting special treatment.

This seems to me a dangerous development, but one that will be enormously hard
to stop. A culture of resentment grows naturally in hard economic times. The old
self-assurance of the established church could guard against such a thing, but
that's lacking even in the Church of England now, and certainly going outside
it.

What we're seeing here is the growth of Christianity as a player in
multicultural politics, competing as a tribal identity for group privileges.
It's ironic that the most prominent signatories of the declaration would regard
"multiculturalism" as a thoroughly bad thing. I suspect that in the next few
years, they will be showing us its bad side in ways that no one has up till now
suspected.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              289 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              April 5, 2010 Monday

David Cameron's Prague spring

BYLINE: Denis MacShaneguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 775 words

ABSTRACT

Denis MacShane: As a Czech party leader is forced to stand down over homophobic
remarks, can we expect Tories to follow suit?

FULL TEXT

 would fit in well with David Cameron's new allies in eastern Europe. On the
Radio 4 Today programme this morning, Michael Heseltine airily dismissed a
question about the Conservatives breaking links with their sister parties in
eastern Europe as something that no voter was interested in. Maybe, but the
judgment call of David Cameron in crawling into bed, breakfast, lunch and dinner
with weird rightwing nationalist populists does deserve greater scrutiny.

We know about the dubious record on the Holocaust of , who leads the Tory MEPs
in the European parliament. We know that Cameron's Latvian allies join in the .
Now, the latest example of the unpleasant nature of the Conservatives' new chums
in Europe comes from Prague.

There, Mirek Topolanek has been forced to stand down as leader of his party (ODS
in Czech just ahead of crucial elections. The reason? Like Grayling, about a gay
transport minister in the current Czech government. He also sneered at the Czech
prime minister, Jan Fischer, as "the Jew". Fischer's son has reacted furiously
to the antisemitic tone of Cameron's Czech mate.

David and Mirek are close buddies. Last spring, Cameron went to Prague to stand
side by side with Topolanek to launch their breakaway Movement for European
Reform. The ODS hero is the Czech president, Vaclav Klaus. He is a  and
virulently anti-EU. During the communist era, unlike the other Vaclav - Havel,
who led the resistance against totalitarianism - Klaus worked for the communist
regime.

Klaus discovered his rightwing anti-European views once Havel had helped bring
down communism. For William Hague, who was instructed by Cameron to destroy the
Tory alliance with Germany's ruling CDU party or France's ruling UMP party, the
ODS, whose hero is the Eurosceptic Thatcher-admiring Klaus, was a natural
partner. When Angela Merkel came to London last weekend, she refused to meet
Cameron. Before May 1997, every European leader wanted to be seen with Tony
Blair. In 2010, no one want to know Cameron, who will poison Britain's business
and trade relations with Europe if he becomes prime minister.

Cameron's friend in Prague is exposed as someone with views on gays and Jews
that should put him beyond the pale in decent European politics. But the massive
shift to the right in European politics - evidenced by the racist and
anti-Jewish BNP and xenophobic Ukip wins in the European parliamentary elections
last June is altering the British political landscape.

The PiS party in Poland is the main ally of the Conservatives. But whenever PiS
politicians have gained power, they have targeted gays. As mayor of Warsaw, the
PiS leader, Jaroslaw Kaczynski, banned Gay Pride marches and the PiS MEP
Kaminski uses the term "paed " - a homophobic Polish slang word that needs no
translation - to denigrate opponents.

Like Jean-Marie Le Pen, who first coined the word "federaste" to attack
supporters of the European Union in France, the right in Europe lurches from
nationalist populism, via homophobia, to hate of Muslims and unacceptable
language about Jews; it indulges in a constant rant against the EU and Brussels
to create a witches' brew of intolerance and political nihilism.

One can understand why Lord Heseltine wishes to see all this brushed under the
carpet, and why Cameron prays every morning to the British news editors who
refuse to examine and expose the Tory links to the new hard right in Europe with
its rampant xeno- and homophobia.

Tory MEPs also refuse to support measures in the European parliament aimed at
supporting gay rights and other equality measures. Again, there is simply no
coverage of what is said and done in the European parliament and what would
cause uproar if spoken on the floor of the House of Commons passes unnoticed in
Strasbourg.

Whereas Topolanek's homophobia has forced his resignation there is no inkling
that Cameron is willing to take action against Grayling. But someone should dig
up the pictures of David and Mirket as they toasted the launch of their new
party. The Czech ODS members have forced Topolanek to go ahead of their
election. Are there any decent Tories out there who will say it is also time for
Grayling to be removed from the frontbench? And will Chris Patten, who is now
attacking Gordon Brown, say anything, but anything, about his party leader's
alliance with some of the nastiest extremists operating in European politics?

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              290 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 5, 2010 Monday 11:34 AM GMT

Vote Match only demonstrates the irrelevance of General Election manifestos

BYLINE: By Tim Collard

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 448 words


I am grateful to our blogging supremo Damian Thompson for pointing me in the
direction of the Telegraph's Vote Match site, which aims to match one's views to
the political party which best represents them. I am a sucker for this sort of
thing, especially as I combine an unwavering party allegiance with a highly
eclectic collection of views. You will already have guessed where this is going:
after answering the questions I was told that the party I should vote for was
UKIP, narrowly followed by the BNP. Of the six parties profiled, the one least
suited to my views was the one I am determined to vote for come hell or high
water. I have to say I was more or less expecting something of this sort, though
some of the details surprised me.

UKIP I can sort of understand; after twenty years in the FCO, more or less in
the belly of the beast, I have little time for the Belgian scam and its
aficionados. But BNP? I don't remember any of my answers bespeaking an obsession
with immigration, which is not a great concern of mine. But I suppose the BNP
has policies on all sorts of other things as well, which I have unaccountably
failed to notice.

But why wasn't I surprised that such a questionnaire should demonstrate such a
disconnect between my views and my party allegiance? Or that the only other
party for which I would consider voting, the Tories, came only marginally ahead
of Labour? I think the answer lies in the nature of manifestos. Most of our
"views" result from moral or emotional spasms, and are not particularly well
thought through. If actually implemented, most would trigger the Law of
Unintended Consequences, which the great American humorist P. J. O'Rourke, in
the context of his own country, called "the one law which Congress always
passes".  Now, the only party manifesto which matters in the slightest is that
of the party which will actually form the next government, and even that matters
only insofar as we are able to embarrass them when they deviate from it. The
rest might as well be promising us free beer, eternal life, and the abolition of
unrequited love.No wonder we seem to be so keen on them in this sort of
questionnaire.

So, as we all really know, the only sensible reason for voting for one party
rather than another relates to whatever you think the next government will
actually do when in office, not what anyone is saying. Talk is cheap, or as the
Germans rather neatly put it, paper is patient. That's why I'm sticking to my
party come what may: it's no good taxing me with any of the iniquities of the
last thirteen years. An election isn't the Day of Judgment. You've got to
convince me that Dave will be any better, and I'm still waiting.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              291 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              April 5, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Fat lips? Ruddy cheek? ... it's the ridiculous face of British politics

BYLINE: Peter Brookes

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1722 words


There are three stages to the way I draw cartoons. First they are rendered
loosely in soft pencil, then I overlay that with pen and Indian ink, and finally
I add tone and colour with watercolour.

With Gordon Brown I'll start with the hair, increasingly grey and much more
coiffured these days. Then come the heavy, angry eyebrows above creased eyes,
one unsighted because that is the unfortunate reality. The nose is short and
stubby, with a flat base. The fleshy-lipped mouth is open in that odd gurning
movement he makes with his jaw as he speaks. The ears are large, round and red.
There are deep marks on the cheekbones that, with the bags under his eyes, give
him that knackered, saturnine look, particularly when I add a blue-grey wash for
five o'clock shadow. Sometimes I think I've just drawn Nixon.

Was there ever a more Tory face than David Cameron's? There was no need to use
an airbrush in that infamous poster because he is actually like that, blemish
free and baby's bottom smooth. Cameron glows privilege. I will draw the outline
shape first, starting with the high forehead, and drop in circles of white for
eyes plumb in the centre, like poached eggs in a pan. Add dots for a seasoning
of pupils. The nose is patrician, almost Roman, and the mouth small. His hair,
if not an Eton crop, is certainly public school - it's got bounce, and you can
almost smell the Molton Brown. There is a definite quiff, and the parting has
been known to change from right to left and back again. Perhaps it is a
political weather-vane, but I suspect it is just to confuse cartoonists. I
complete him by painting circles of red, with white highlights, for his rosy
apple cheeks.

Nick Clegg is more of a problem, simply because, as the third-party leader, he
is drawn less often. But I suspect, with all the talk of a hung Parliament, that
is beginning to change. The best feature for me is the hair, particularly when
freshly cut. This gives him the appearance of a stroppy teenager, so it is
obviously aimed at the youth vote, and you can imagine him in his bedroom
gelling up the spiky bits. Hair length alters, so it is not wise to rely on
haircuts.

His cheeks are high and rounded, and the eyes small and deep set. I draw them in
shadow, which gives a bruised effect. He generally appears to be shouting - not
surprising when he has to make himself heard in the Commons over the barracking.
I am sure he would have made a not very interesting, but safe, choice for your
daughter to bring home. I bet he played hockey at school.

If Labour loses, I will miss drawing all of them: Mandelson, David Miliband and
Darling in particular (and Prescott used to be such a gift), though none has
been as interesting to draw as the increasingly crazed and manic Blair. The
compensation will be tearing into Cameron and Osborne, peas from the same
Bullingdon pod. And I am sure that I would enjoy tackling Michael Gove. There is
one person I find particularly tricky, though, and I feel she will be quite
prominent in the campaign: Sarah Brown. Everyone likes her, and you are always
on a hiding to nothing with a national treasure.

How the main parties see the top ten election issues

Illustrations by Peter Brookes

Economy

The economy is at the heart of all the parties' pitches. Whoever claims most
credibility for their plans to cut the deficit will garner a big advantage. The
starting point is £167 billion, the Government's overspend this year: all
parties plan to halve it in four years.

Law and order

The battle will focus on whether crime has risen or fallen since 1997. The
British Crime Survey and police recorded crimes show a fall, so Labour will
claim that its policies are working. The party is vulnerable over its failure to
provide enough prison places.

Education

School standards, competition for places and funding are key issues. Labour must
show that £30 billion extra a year for schools has improved results. Tories
claim exams have been devalued and the curriculum cluttered by political
interference.

Employment

Cuting the jobless total threatens to be one of the hardest policy challenges.
Labour has extended a "jobs guarantee" for under 24-year-olds for another 18
months. The Tories' main offer rests on blocking most of the national insurance
rise.

Europe

David Cameron's decision not to hold a referendum after the ratification of the
Lisbon treaty removed the EU from the mainstream election topics. Labour will,
nevertheless, try to exploit the issue. The Tory leader will want to minimise
the threat posed by UKIP.

Immigration

A major concern of the electorate. Labour in effect lost control of our borders
in the late 1990s as record numbers of asylum-seekers came in. This was followed
by hundreds of thousands of East Europeans seeking work after the EU expanded in
2004.

Environment

A third of Britain's electricity generating capacity is due to close by 2020 and
the key issue is what mix of sustainable new capacity is needed. Labour likes
offshore wind; the Tories favour a minimum price for carbon permits to fund
nuclear power.

Welfare and Pensions

Old-age care is the main funding challenge for the next government. Child
poverty continues, while social care is in the spotlight after the Baby P case.
Labour welfare reform focused on incapacity benefit, while housing benefit
remains ripe for reform.

Health

With the NHS needing to save up to £20 billion in three years, the largest
frontline service will dominate debates. Few will dare to mention the reality:
hospital departments will merge, close or risk becoming dangerously substandard.

Defence

The key question is how to cope with a hole in the defence budget that could
grow to £36 billion. The strategic defence review, which will happen whichever
party wins, will examine Britain's role in the world and what resources it will
need.

Labour

We got all the big decisions right during the financial crisis. The Tories would
threaten a fragile recovery by cutting too soon and their sums don't add up.
Whatever they say, their tax cuts will mean that they have to slash frontline
public services.

Our record on crime and building prison places speaks for itself; the Tories'
claims about "broken Britain" just don't stack up. We have the lowest murder
rate for 20 years and promise renewed help for people suffering antisocial
behaviour.

School budgets are fixed to rise by 0.7 per cent a year until 2013, creating a
dividing line with the Tories.

We kept you in a job through the recession; don't let the Tories risk it all
now.

David Cameron cannot look after Britain's interest because he has put himself on
the margins of the EU.

269 pages in the Treaty of Lisbon

Tory plans for an annual cap on non-EU migrants could leave key industries short
of skilled workers, but we have to be careful not to drive the working classes
into the arms of the BNP.

We will need to show that the 400,000 green jobs we promise are beginning to
filter through, compensating for increases in energy bills that may result from
green targets.

Prepare for "death tax" assault - the planned compulsory scheme to pay for old
age care is very unpopular with older voters.

We are the party of the NHS, and an increasingly integrated social care system.
The Tories, however, plan to drive up use of the private sector.

We would keep the defence budget rising this financial year (2010-11). Further
into the future, we want to see closer collaboration with the EU.

Conservative

We will simply be more ruthless on cutting waste than the Government. We must
start immediately or the interest charges on our national debt may spiral. We
can also cut taxes for workers, employers, married couples and wealthy estates.

Labour has failed on early release of prisoners, gangs and violent crime. We
would give extra power to the police over licensing and increase the maximum
sentence magistrates can hand down.

We will allow parents to set up "free" schools with state funds, tapping into
parents' concerns over standards and admissions.

Gordon Brown has already put your job in danger, now he wants to put even more
pressure on your employer to make you redundant.

Gordon Brown broke his promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon treaty and
cares more about the world stage than domestic politics.

Labour's record is dreadful and it has failed effectively to tackle scams linked
to students, including bogus colleges. We must be careful not to be too
strident, for fear of reviving the perception that we are the "nasty party".

We need to convince voters that David Cameron's greening of the Tory party was a
genuine conversion, not a temporary PR manoeuvre.

We should get the lines clear on Sure Start, the children's centres cherished by
rich and poor families alike. They should be targeted at poor children only.

While we will highlight health service autonomy with the foundation of an
independent NHS board, Labour remain obsessed with targets and managers.

We would keep the planned rise in the defence budget and hold a combined defence
and security review. We want a stabilisation force using the Territorial Army.

Lib Dems

No you can't. The Tory sums are nonsense. Our tax cut is the fairest: no income
tax for anyone on the first £10,000. And don't forget that we were the only ones
to foresee the financial crisis.

We would put 3,000 extra police on the beat by scrapping ID cards and cutting
bureaucracy.

Schools would be one of only a few areas to get extra spending instead of cuts:
£2.5 billion more for poorer children and smaller classes Labour has put your
job on the line, the Tories will only look after their own.

Both the main parties are prepared to play politics with Brussels. We alone will
preserve Britain's national interest within the EU.

The Government has failed to control the borders, but the Conservatives' plan
for an annual cap on numbers is not the answer.

We are the only party to oppose new nuclear power stations, but we need to
persuade voters that we have a credible alternative.

The poorest should benefit from our tax cuts, but don't ask what that means for
the public debt crisis.

£146bn forecast income tax receipts 2010-11

We will push our respite promise for carers and our consensus position on social
care.

Trident nuclear submarines should be replaced with a cheaper option, such as
nuclear missiles on a tactical submarine. We would like to see more nimble,
flexible Armed Forces.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Three stooges: rendered in soft pencil, ready to be lampooned in full
colour
Peter Brookes of The Times: whoever wins can be assured of his sharp attention

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              292 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              April 4, 2010 Sunday

Tea Party spirit firing red-state Britain

BYLINE: Keith Kahn-Harrisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 835 words

ABSTRACT

Keith Kahn-Harris: If only these extremists had an outlet in mainstream politics
and their ideas challenged in a serious way

FULL TEXT

As a semi-regular visitor to Bournemouth, my trips are invariably enlivened by a
flick through one of my favourite "guilty pleasures", the local free magazine .
For the most part it's a parade of ludicrously expensive properties, photos of
local notables attending cocktail parties and adverts for plastic surgery. The
real treat, though, is the column called "A View from the Forest" by a Professor
Miles Robbins.

From his New Forest abode, Professor Robbins (if he is indeed a real professor -
his affiliation is not given and Google fails to find him) casts a jaundiced eye
at the idiocies of life in modern Britain. He comes across as an older and
superficially more intellectual version of Jeremy Clarkson. For Robbins, Brown's
Britain is a morass of absurd over-regulation in which historical British
liberties are being eroded. The EU is a sinister superstate bent on destroying
British independence and freedom. Global warming is a myth put about by those
hell-bent on sending us back to the stone age.

In this month's column (his final apparently) Professor Robbins outdid himself
with an extraordinary warning about the sinister power of the "". This was,
according to Robbins "set up in the 20s to destabilise society and make it ripe
for a state takeover" and whose strategies "have been followed [by government]
over the last decades in the UK". Such strategies include "Dumb down the media"
and "Frighten the people so they more easily accept state control".

All this is quite a surprise for those of us who know of the Frankfurt School as
a neo-Marxist intellectual movement that actively warned about the power of
modern state and dumbed down mass culture. But, however ludicrous and ignorant
Professor Robbins's views may be (and I do not discount the possibility that his
column is a parody), the wider resonances of his oeuvre should not be so easily
dismissed.

Robbins's identification of the Frankfurt School as the secret power behind a
contemporary attempt by the state to destroy individual freedom is very similar
to one of the motivating conspiracies behind the Tea Party movement in the US.
As a recent article in The Nation demonstrated, figures such as Glenn Beck argue
that the Obama administration represents the sinister accomplishment of the ,
outlined in a 1966 article that suggested activists should focus on welfare
enrolment and voter registration drives in order to ultimately produce a
political crisis to undermine capitalism.

Professor Miles Robbins is no Glenn Beck and Compass South is no Fox News, but
his world view tallies very closely with that of the US Tea Party movement. It's
the same conspiratorial mindset, the same distrust of the state, the same
rejection of any kind of social policy. And Robbins is not the only one. British
local newspapers, blogs and comment threads seethe with the same righteous anger
that drives the grassroots rebellion against Obama.

It's no surprise, then, that Tory MEP Daniel Hannan recently took the plunge and
called for a UK Tea Party. The launch event in Brighton at the end of February
may have only attracted 300 people - perhaps a reflection of the unfortunate
connotations of the Tea Party in the UK - but that is no reason for complacency.

The UK has its own red states, areas where the multiculturalist pro-welfare
state writ runs less strongly. Professor Robbins's New Forest and Jeremy
Clarkson's Cotswolds could be among the heartlands for a paranoid, anti-state,
anti-immigrant, non-metropolitan, pro-unfettered capital constituency.

Cameron's conservatives have, at least in advance of the upcoming election,
appeared to hold back from embracing this constituency. The closest party to it
is Ukip (although similar in many ways, the BNP is too proletarian and urban in
its power base), which has reaped concomitant rewards at European elections, but
not yet at the national level. Although Ukip may play a role in the upcoming
elections through splitting the Tory vote, it is to all intents and purposes
shut out of the parliamentary conversation through our electoral system.

For many, the prospect of Ukip and BNP MPs is a major reason to reject electoral
reform. I would argue, though, that the current disenfranchisement of the
putative UK Tea Party movement is not necessarily a healthy situation.
Alienation from the political process only increases the paranoia and the
absence of any kind of realistic political programme. It means that their ideas
are never challenged in a serious way. A movement whose discourse is rooted in
publications like Compass South will be insulated from the kind of interrogation
it needs.

So I will miss "A View from the Forest" and I look forward to the day that the
likes of Professor Robbins will come out into the light of mainstream politics -
to receive the working over they deserve.

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              293 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                              April 4, 2010 Sunday

TRY MOVING DOWN HERE THEN TELL ME WE'RE A TOLERANT SOCIETY

LENGTH: 720 words


LIZ JONES

I WAS in a small supermarket the other day. Not a local supermarket, mind: no,
no, no, no, no. It was a few miles from my home, but still within the confines
of Somerset. I went to pay for my cats' sustainably caught fish. The young
checkout girl smiled.

'What's happened to the fish and chip shop?' I asked her; it was closed, and I
was annoyed because I'd wanted to buy my cats some cod.

'It's been taken over by Turkish people,' she said. 'I won't be buying anything
from there.'

'Oh really, why not?' 'I don't like Turkish food. They're not very clean. People
don't really want foreigners in the village.'

'Oh, that's a shame. My boyfriend's Turkish,' I lied, wanting to see her squirm.

'Oh,' she said, turning red. 'I didn't mean all Turkish, just those awful kebab
shops.'

I left, saying as politely as I could that maybe with a few more 'foreigners'
running local shops, I might be able to buy a newspaper past midday on a Sunday.

Immigration comes second in the list of most people's concerns in the upcoming
Election, but it's a subject all three major parties are tiptoeing around. The
Tories promise an annual limit on those from outside the EU and an overhaul of
the student visa system.

Labour wants an Australianstylepoints system where the only people allowed in
are those with skills and a job to go to that has been advertised for at least
four weeks.

But what about the poor and desperate but woefully unskilled? I'd have thought
anyone who had the get-up-and-go, the drive and the bravery to leave their home
and set off in search of a better life was already pretty amazing.

Isn't it the people who never leave the place where they were born who show no
ambition at all?

I had an argument the other day with a fortysomething odd-jobman-cum-antiques
dealer. He told me he was going to vote UKIP because he was worried about the
number of immigrants who come here and 'live off the social'. This from a man
who only ever gets paid in cash.

The Liberal Democrats' big idea is to allow immigrants to settle in
underpopulated areas like the Highlands of Scotland but, given the reception
anyone a little different seems to get in rural Britain, I don't really see how
that would work.

SINCEmoving to Somerset I've been made a figure of fun, with a local councillor
dressing up as me ñ black wig, make- up, accessories of a rat and a tin of Illy
coffee ñ for a carnival. You might have the view my bad reception is down to the
fact I've uttered a couple of negative comments about the locals, but then all I
can say is that people are remarkably thin-skinned; it's a good job we Essex
girls have been able to take a joke all these years.

I can't help but wonder whether, if I were black or Asian or indeed Turkish, the
mutterings in the local gift shops would have been even nastier.

I lived most of my adult life in Hackney, and I admit the quiet girls in
headscarves who manned the checkouts at my local Sainsbury's used to drive me
insane when they didn't understand what I meant by, 'Where's the fizzy water?'
But give me their benign stares any day over venom.

'It's about how we answer the concerns of care workers, people in the building
trade, cleaners and janitors, people who work in shops,' Gordon Brown said in a
speech on immigration last week.

He's missing an important point: how many white British nurses live full-time in
their patients' homes? I've never met one. My mum's nurse is an African woman
with a PhD who leaves her children with their grandmother so that she can do her
job.

I miss my Turkish cleaner ñ a hard-working woman who always brought me halloumi
and flat bread and olives ñ with an ache that can't be filled, literally: my ad
for a cleaner in this very rural area, where jobs are hard to come by, has gone
unanswered for almost two years.

You might say this is because no one wants to work for me, but the ad doesn't
disclose my name or exact location.

It's not until you are stared at, sworn at and ostracised just because you might
not partake of local customs that you realise how unwelcoming British people
outside the big metropolises can be.

As a Londoner, I'd have told you we are a tolerant society, but I no longer
believe that. Indians already bypass us now, and head straight for America.
Their gain, our loss. There's now not a single politician brave enough to say
that.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              294 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 4, 2010

THE A-Z OF ELECTION 2010: On Tuesday, Gordon Brown is expected to announce the
date - probably 6 May - of the general election. With the parties already
trading political fire, Observer writers offer an alphabetical guide - from
Ashcroft to a string of zeros - to the people and issues that will decide who
forms the next government: TV debates, mumsnet... what will decide where voters
place an X?

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 3345 words


A is for Ashcroft

Will Lord Ashcroft be an asset or liability for David Cameron? The billionaire
peer has pumped more than £ 5m into Tory coffers since 2000, funding campaigns
in the marginal seats Cameron must win. For years it seemed Ashcroft would,
unquestionably, be an asset. Tories still insist they are picking up more
support in the "Ashcroft marginals" than elsewhere. Voters in these seats have
been schmoozed by phone canvassers and Ashcroft-funded glossies that the Tories'
hard-up opponents cannot match.

Last month, however, the word Ashcroft became a dirty one, even to many
Conservatives. After 10 years of ducking questions about Lord A's tax affairs,
the party had to admit he was a "non-dom", meaning that he had not been paying
UK tax on his huge overseas earnings. Oops. It was a bombshell, contradicting
assurances by William Hague a decade ago. Hague had told Tony Blair in 2000 that
Ashcroft would pay "tens of millions" more in tax as part of the deal under
which he got him a seat in the House of Lords. How did this fit with Cameron's
claims to be running an ultra-transparent, new kind of party? The non-dom
admission brought cries of "Tory sleaze" from their opponents. Ashcroft money
was tainted money, they said. Expect much more.

And. . . Attack dogs

The politician and spin doctors in charge of the dark arts at elections.

B is for Boundary changes

Most seats in England and Wales (but none in Scotland) will be fought on new
boundaries, and most of the changes are expected to work in favour of the
Conservatives. Traditional Labour strongholds have been allocated fewer seats,
reflecting population movements out of cities and into the suburbs, while the
leafier suburban areas, which tend to be more Tory, receive more seats.

According to analysis from the University of Plymouth, the changes will mean the
Tories gain 12 seats, while Labour lose seven. The new House of Commons will
have 650 seats, four more than now, so a party requires 326 MPs for an overall
majority. These changes will see the creation of 13 new seats and the abolition
of nine.

And. . . Broken Britain

A favourite Conservative soundbite. David Cameron uses it as shorthand to
describe a collapse in values in public and private live. To be mended with the
help of his newest catchphrase, the Big Society.

Dis for Double Dip

It's the economy, stupid. Labour and the Lib Dems say the Tories will plunge the
country into a DD by cutting spending too quickly. They say Cameron's economic
policies will choke off government spending just at the moment the economy is
emerging from recession. The Tories say a DD will result if there is no credible
plan to cut the deficit.

And. . . Death tax

The issue of social care for the elderly will be big on the doorstep. Labour has
still not ruled out a levy on the estates of the deceased as a way to fund care
for the elderly in the long run. The Tories have called it a "death tax".

And. . . David Miliband

Watch the young Turk lay out his stall as Gordon Brown's successor if Labour
slides to defeat.

E is for Eton

"I thought I was running for leadership of the Tory party, not some demented
Marxist sect," sniped Douglas Hurd in 1990 when asked about his education at
Eton. Cameron might have to be a little more careful if he doesn't want his
elite upbringing to become a hindrance during the campaign. He is one of a
number of Tory frontbenchers to have gone to the public school. Brown once joked
that the party's policies had been dreamed up on its exclusive playing fields.
Not that it is unusual to see a former Etonian leading a political party: 19 Old
Boys have already won the race to become prime minister among them Walpole,
Gladstone and Eden.

And. . . Ed Miliband

Watch the even younger Turk (brother of D) lay out his stall as Brown's
successor if Labour slides to defeat.

F is for Family

The race for the women's vote has put the family centre stage, with battles
raging over issues such as child tax credits, Sure Start and, most
controversially, the Tories' promise of a marriage tax break. This is troubled
territory. While everyone agrees stable families are a good thing, Cameron risks
alienating many people by promising to reward marriage through the tax system.
How will single parents who have been abandoned through no fault of their own
and divorced people react to receiving less money and being treated as
second-class parents?

And. . . Floating voters

Huge numbers of people are undecided in 2010. A record turnout for smaller
parties such as Ukip, the Greens and the BNP is odds-on. The number of floaters
this time round - along with general disillusionment with politics - makes this
election the hardest to call in a generation.

G is for Gate

Every election has an unexpected scandal, which emerges when newspapers grow
terrified of being left out, want again to feel "part of the process", so haul
the dirty stuff from the back of the safe - and such furores are almost
invariably, today, suffixed "gate" (a la Watergate). Even in the run-up to the
election there have been lots of "gates" including "bullygate" (the controversy
over Brown's attitude to staff management in Number 10), "lobbygate" (the
scandal over MPs such as Stephen Byers selling their expertise to lobbyists) and
"Ashcroftgate" (the hoo-hah over his decade-long refusal to reveal his tax
status). The only reason we had the "war of Jennifer's Ear" and not
"Jennifergate" during the 1992 election was because of a faintly spurious link
to the War of Jenkins' Ear. Hopes must be high that, if there's a Tory
implosion, it emanates from the area of west London where the Tory leadership
and its friends live, love and water: who could resist Notting Hill Gate Gate?

And. . . Griffin, Nick

The leader of the British National party believes that 2010 will be the year his
far-right group makes significant breakthroughs in national politics. It enters
the election in a stronger position than ever before with representation in
local councils, on the Greater London Authority and in Europe. Griffin also
reached millions of voters during his controversial appearance on Question Time.
The MEP for the north-west is standing as a prospective parliamentary candidate
against Margaret Hodge in Barking, Essex, but has admitted he is there in part
to draw attention from the local battle for the council. Labour is throwing
everything it has at trying to stop the party from taking control of its first
local authority.

H is for Hung parliament

This happens when no single party has an overall majority in the Commons. In
such circumstances the government will not be able to guarantee its ability to
win votes and push through a legislative programme without the support of other
parties. To gain an absolute majority a party will need 326 seats. Labour will
lose its absolute majority if it loses 24 seats and the Conservatives will gain
an absolute majority if they gain 116. Any result in between will result in
parliament being hung - and the polls suggest we may be in a position where no
party will get an overall majority.

What happens then? Brown can try to hang on in power for a period even if his
party does not win the largest number of seats. In 1974, Edward Heath stayed on
for four days after the election trying to put together a coalition, even though
Labour had the largest number of seats in Parliament.

A party can stay in government without an absolute majority and try to forge a
coalition, involving policy concessions and the award of senior jobs to other
parties. Or it can form a minority government and hope for the best in
parliamentary votes.

When did we last go down this road? In the first of two elections in 1974 no
party won an outright majority. Labour won 301 seats and the Conservatives 297.
Harold Wilson formed a minority government, but it did not last long. A second
election in October gave Wilson a majority of three.

And. . . Hoon (noun)

Originally from a notoriously discontinued piece of army ordnance which
scattered poison among its own ranks, did no damage whatever to the enemy and
later self-destructed in its own HQ. Now likely to be used for a failing piece
of electioneering, as in "Better pack the bags, darling. I think I've made a
right Hoon of the campaign."

I is for Immigration

Tory strategists have said they would be happy to get through the entire
campaign without making immigration much of an issue. Party officials feel the
focus on it harmed them in 2005 under the leadership of Michael Howard. They
should be so lucky. Many of those among the grassroots think that immigration is
too important to ignore - and could be a vote winner among swaths of the
electorate.

J is for Joanne Cash

The blonde Conservative candidate who is close to Cameron and has become
synonymous with the tensions between grassroots Tories and the Cameronistas.
Some of the more traditional Conservative members resent the level of central
office interference in candidate selection. Cash, a pregnant libel lawyer, won
through in a fierce battle to keep her place as candidate in the Westminster
seat. She caused controversy after slamming the traditionalists on her Twitter
page. She wrote: "RIP Dinosaurs" before adding, "I am not leaving. It's official
- DC [David Cameron] has changed the party!!!!!!!!". If the Tories do worse than
expected in such seats, the party's leader should expect rising resentment.

And. . . JK Rowling and Jim Davidson

The bestselling author is one celebrity backing Labour, while Cameron gets the
vote of the comedian. The Tories also get Kirstie Allsop and Ian Botham, while
Labour can draw support from Naomi Campbell. Who will win the battle of the
celebrity vote?

And. . . Johnsons as in Boris (and his brother Jo)

What part if any will the maverick mayor play? His brother Jo is standing as a
candidate for Orpington in Kent.

K is for Kaminski

Michal Kaminski is the Polish politician who leads the Conservative MEPs in a
new grouping in the European Parliament. Cameron caused controversy when he
decided to pull out of the mainstream European People's Party, which includes
pro-EU federalist parties such as the German Christian Democrats. But his hunt
to create a new alliance led him into the arms of some controversial parties
such as Kaminski's Law and Justice party. Kaminski has been accused of being a
homophobe and allying with anti-Semitic causes. Labour and the Lib Dems say that
by linking up with such people (and in Kaminski's case allowing him to head the
new group) the Tories have shown they tolerate extremism. They also say a
Conservative government will be marginalised in vital EU discussions because
mainstream parties across Europe will not take them seriously.

L is for Lesbians and gays

The fight for the lesbian and gay vote will be a key one. Labour is proud of its
record in having advanced gay equality since 1997, an achievement hailed last
weekend when Chris Bryant became the first gay MP to marry in the House of
Commons. But Cameron has tried to reposition his party as equally liberal. Last
year he apologised for Section 28, a Conservative law introduced in the late
1980s which effectively prevented teaching about gay issues.

But many of his MPs and MEPs - and his new allies in Europe - take a different
view. Indeed, the Tory leader was embarrassed by questions on the attitude of
Tory peers to gay rights in a Channel 4 interview, during which he admitted he
was not on top of the detail. Today we report that Chris Grayling, the shadow
home secretary, supports the right of owners of bed and breakfasts to turn away
same-sex couples.

A recent poll for PinkNews.co.uk found that Labour is still the top choice for
gay voters. Some 28% of lesbian and gay voters backed the party, with the Tories
and Lib Dems on 25% each. The Greens came fourth with 19%. While the Tories had
made progress (only 17% of respondents voted Tory in 2005) they were in a far
stronger position a year ago. Last June a similar poll placed Cameron's party on
39% compared with 29% for Labour. But rows over their European allies'
unreconstructed views appear to have damaged them.

M is for Mumsnet

Ed Balls, Andy Burnham, Maria Miller and Ed Miliband are just some of the MPs
who have gone online to court the Mumsnet vote. So has political wife, Sarah
Brown - and her husband Gordon. He failed to answer a question about his
favourite biscuit, while Cameron became embroiled in a dispute about nappies.

The 2010 vote has been called the Mumsnet election as politicians of all sides
fall over themselves to secure a place in front of the website's 880,000 monthly
users. Up to 40% of the "mothers with laptops" are thought to be undecided on
how to vote and the easiest way to access them is to take a pew in front of the
screen and take them on post-by-post. Gaffe-prone Boris Johnson and Peter
"Mandy" Mandelson are next.

And. . . Motorway Man

The floating voter who, say pollsters, will determine the result. The label
denotes young, "aspirational" couples who live near motorway junctions and drive
off separately each morning to work in different towns or business parks.
Community ties are no longer important to them, but material possessions are.
They have been described as politically and ideologically footloose, looking at
political parties the way some people look at cars.

N is National Insurance

It began with a government policy to increase national insurance by 1% starting
next April - and has led to one of the most bitter political battles between the
parties as high-profile business leaders wade into the debate. Last Friday, 14
more leading company chiefs added their names to protests about the move and
insisted they supported the Tory pledge to reverse the tax hike for most people
and pay for it using £ 12bn efficiency savings. The opposition already had the
support of prominent brands such as Marks & Spencers, Easyjet and Sainsbury's as
well the Confederation of British Industry, which tends not to wade into such
rows. Among the new names were the boss of the Formula 1 team, McLaren, the
chief executive of the HMV group and former Labour donor Richard Caring, the
restaurant entrepreneur.

O is for Osborne, George

He was just 33 when he was appointed shadow chancellor and it seems his youth
might still be a problem. Now 38, he has been relentlessly attacked for his lack
of experience. The Labour party has vowed to target him as the Tory "weak link"
and he regularly polls badly behind the chancellor, Alistair Darling, and even
further behind the Liberal Democrats' Vince Cable. But Osborne has been boosted
in the past week by support from business for his plan to reverse a government
plan to increase National Insurance. In an interview with the Guardian
yesterday, he claimed the business revolt had destroyed the case for the
government.

And. . . Old friend

Tony Blair, sporting a strange orange sun tan which attracted more comment than
his speech, was wheeled out last week in support of Brown. But will he be a hero
or a hindrance for Labour?

Q is for Queen

Brown will pay Her Majesty a visit, almost certainly on Tuesday, and tell her he
wants to call a general election. Because this country does not have a written
constitution, there is a certain lack of clarity over what are known as the
monarch's "personal prerogatives". One is the power to dissolve parliament.
There is no actual "law" that prevents the Queen from dissolving parliament when
she wants.

But convention dictates that it is the prime minister alone who decides the
timing of a dissolution and a general election and that he or she advises the
monarch when the moment is right.

R is for Rees-Moggs

Last year Cameron (who is a bit prickly about the posh charge) jokingly
suggested to Annunziata Rees-Mogg, Conservative candidate for Somerton and Frome
and daughter of the Times columnist, William, that she might like to change her
name to Nancy Mogg because it sounded a bit more. . . well, ordinary.

Equally politely, but firmly, she told him where to get off. (She is a
fearsomely independent young operator who it might be advisable for Cameron to
whip quickly into his government tent if he wins.) And she is not the only
bearer of the double-barrelled name in that neck the west country. Her brother,
the wonderfully patrician Jacob Rees-Mogg, is contesting North East Somerset.

U is for Unite

The super-union is giving £ 4m to the Labour campaign. Its political director is
Brown's former spin doctor Charlie Whelan. But Unite has done Brown no favours
of late by bringing out its BA cabin crew members on strike. Cameron has
pounced, saying that Labour remains in the pocket of its union paymasters and
Brown is too weak and reliant on them to act. The Tories suggest that the
country under Labour is going back to the pre-Thatcher Seventies and an era of
industrial strife.

V is for Vince Cable

Polls show that "St Vince", the Liberal Democrat shadow chancellor, is regarded
as the most credible by most people. How much effect will he have in lifting the
party's vote?

W is for Wobble

Best to do it early. The Tories have been wobbling since their poll lead began
to fall from a heady 20 points down to single figures. They had a particularly
big wobble during their Spring Forum, when a YouGov poll placed them just two
points ahead. But they are wobbling a little less now, with those business gurus
lining up to support their position on National Insurance. Labour had an
all-time wobble on 1 April, 1992 when it hosted the Sheffield Rally a week
before the election; 10,000 members attended and Neil Kinnock, the leader, was
flown in by helicopter. After losing, he admitted regretting the triumphalism of
the event.

X is for 'Xpenses

Around 140 MPs are leaving parliament. Some have been forced out because of the
expenses scandal and others simply can't face the sudden decline in their
standing in the eyes of the public. The election could turn on the levels of
support for those who have angered their constituents with their expense claims
but have refused to step down.

One interesting case will be Hazel Blears, the former cabinet minister who got
into hot water for flipping her homes and quit her post after Brown criticised
her publicly. There has been local pressure to oust her up in Salford. It will
be fascinating to see how much the second-placed Lib Dems and third-placed
Tories can eat into her 8,000 majority. Similarly, former home secretary Jacqui
Smith, who got into trouble over her housing claims and her husband's claim for
a blue movie, will also be in trouble. Her majority of 2,716 in Redditch has
been cut (notionally) to below 2,000 by boundary changes.

And. . . X-rated

Lib Dem candidate for Gravesham, Kent, Anna Arrowsmith is a director of porn
movies. Last year she won a battle with censors to be allowed to show a scene of
female ejaculation. "There will be some people who will never like porn," she
said recently. "People approach sex in different ways. For some it is only an
emotional act. For others it is a variety of acts. Some people will never accept
that. They are probably the same people who never had a one-night stand. There
will be some people who are conservative and very anti-porn. I think on the
whole these days people are far more liberal."

Y is for Year for Change

A favourite Tory theme of the election as David Cameron hopes to woo voters with
the notion of something different.

Z is for Zero - as in lots of them

Such as 167,000,000,000, the UK's budget deficit, meaning that whoever wins will
enjoy one of the shortest political honeymoons in history.

Captions:

David Cameron and media management supremo Andy Coulson. Rex

This is appropriate dummy text that is being employed in order to ascertain
anThis is appropriate dummy text that is being employed in order to ascertain an
approximate

The 2007 image of a Manchester youth and Cameron evokes his Broken Britain
theme.

Brighton's gay pride parade: their support will be a key battle area for both
parties.

The leaders' wives - from left Sarah Brown, Miriam Gonzalez and Samantha Cameron
- will be centre stage in the election, and their husbands know it. Rex/Getty/PA


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              295 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 4, 2010

In Focus: THE A-Z OF ELECTION 2010: On Tuesday, Gordon Brown is expected to
announce the date - probably 6 May - of the general election. With the parties
already trading political fire, Observer writers offer an alphabetical guide -
from Ashcroft to a string of zeros - to the people and issues that will decide
who forms the next government: Tax promises, TV debates... what will sway voters
to place their X?

BYLINE: Compiled by Anushka Asthana, Jamie Doward, Euan Ferguson, Toby Helm and
Vanessa Thorpe

SECTION: OBSERVER IN FOCUS PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 4370 words


A is for Ashcroft

Will Lord Ashcroft be an asset or liability for David Cameron? The billionaire
peer has pumped more than £ 5m into Tory coffers since 2000, funding campaigns
in the marginal seats Cameron must win. For years it seemed Ashcroft would,
unquestionably, be an asset. Tories still insist they are picking up more
support in the "Ashcroft marginals" than elsewhere. Voters in these seats have
been schmoozed by phone canvassers and Ashcroft-funded glossies that the Tories'
hard-up opponents cannot match.

Last month, however, the word Ashcroft became a dirty one, even to many
Conservatives. After 10 years of ducking questions about Lord A's tax affairs,
the party had to admit he was a "non-dom", meaning that he had not been paying
UK tax on his huge overseas earnings. Oops. It was a bombshell, contradicting
assurances by William Hague a decade ago. Hague had told Tony Blair in 2000 that
Ashcroft would pay "tens of millions" more in tax as part of the deal under
which he got him a seat in the House of Lords. How did this fit with Cameron's
claims to be running an ultra-transparent, new kind of party? The non-dom
admission brought cries of "Tory sleaze" from their opponents. Ashcroft money
was tainted money, they said. Expect much more.

And. . . Attack dogs

The politicians and spin doctors in charge of the dark arts at elections.

B is for Boundary changes

Most seats in England and Wales (but none in Scotland) will be fought on new
boundaries, and most of the changes are expected to work in favour of the
Conservatives. Traditional Labour strongholds have been allocated fewer seats,
reflecting population movements out of cities and into the suburbs, while the
leafier suburban areas, which tend to be more Tory, receive more seats.

According to analysis from the University of Plymouth, the changes will mean the
Tories gain 12 seats, while Labour lose seven. The new House of Commons will
have 650 seats, four more than now, so a party requires 326 MPs for an overall
majority. These changes will see the creation of 13 new seats and the abolition
of nine.

And. . . Broken Britain

A favourite Conservative soundbite. David Cameron uses it as shorthand to
describe a collapse in values in public and private live. To be mended with the
help of his newest catchphrase, the Big Society.

C is for Coulson, Andy

Little seen and little heard, but as powerful as anyone in Team Cameron. The
former News of the World editor was brought in by the Conservative leader in
2007 to do an Alastair Campbell. His role is to manage that area of operations
where strategy overlaps with media management. Has already notched up the Sun's
backing - and, not long after his arrival in Tory HQ, the Daily Telegraph, which
had profound doubts about David Cameron under former editor Will Lewis, also
became more supportive. The Daily Mail is now in full pre-election,
pro-Conservative mode, despite editor Paul Dacre's friendship with Gordon Brown.

Coulson's name spells terror among Tory aides who live in fear of his reprimands
and quiet, ghostly presence at the heart of decision-making. Many MPs are
dismayed that Coulson, who resigned from the News of the World following the
imprisonment of his royal editor, Clive Goodman, for intercepting private phone
calls, now runs the media operation of a supposedly sleaze-averse party.
Questions also remain about systematic phone tapping involving journalists under
his control.

If Cameron fails to win a decent majority, Coulson will be an early victim of
bloodletting. But if he wins, his reputation - and market value - will soar.

And. . . Cuts

All parties acknowledge the need to bring down the deficit. But sounding
convincing, while avoiding scaring the horses (in this case voters), is the
challenge they all face. The Tories have said they will start cutting earlier
than Labour, and do so this year if they win. But an announcement that they
would not implement Labour's planned rise in national insurance in 2011 led to
fresh controversy.

The Tories have said they will fund their tax pledge by saving some £ 6bn
through cutting waste and bureaucracy in 2010-11 - having previously ridiculed
Labour promises to find similar savings. Many businessmen have supported the
Tories' decision to be rid of a fresh "tax on jobs". But Labour says its
opponents' sums do not add up and that the pledge does not square with the
Tories' long-stated desire to make cutting the deficit its number one priority.
The business secretary, Lord Mandelson, likened shadow chancellor George Osborne
to "a kid in a sweet shop, who thinks he can grab sweets from every jar without
paying for them".

D is for Double Dip

It's the economy, stupid. Labour and the Lib Dems say the Tories will plunge the
country into a DD by cutting spending too quickly. They say Cameron's economic
policies will choke off government spending just at the moment the economy is
emerging from recession. The Tories say a DD will result if there is no credible
plan to cut the deficit.

And. . . Death tax

The issue of social care for the elderly will be big on the doorstep. Labour has
been slow to rule out a levy on the estates of the deceased as a way to fund
care for the elderly in the long run. The Tories have called it a "death tax".

And. . . David Miliband

Watch the young Turk lay out his stall as Gordon Brown's successor if Labour
slides to defeat.

E is for Eton

"I thought I was running for leadership of the Tory party, not some demented
Marxist sect," sniped Douglas Hurd in 1990 when asked about his education at
Eton. Cameron might have to be a little more careful if he doesn't want his
elite upbringing to become a hindrance during the campaign. He is one of a
number of Tory frontbenchers to have gone to the public school. Brown once joked
that the party's policies had been dreamed up on its exclusive playing fields.
Not that it is unusual to see a former Etonian leading a political party: 19 Old
Boys have already won the race to become prime minister, among them Walpole,
Gladstone and Eden.

And. . . Ed Miliband

Watch the even younger Turk (brother of D) lay out his stall as Brown's
successor if Labour slides to defeat.

F is for Family

The race for the women's vote has put the family centre stage, with battles
raging over issues such as child tax credits, Sure Start and, most
controversially, the Tories' promise of a marriage tax break. This is troubled
territory. While everyone agrees stable families are a good thing, Cameron risks
alienating many people by promising to reward marriage through the tax system.
How will single parents who have been abandoned through no fault of their own
and divorced people react to receiving less money and being treated as
second-class parents?

And. . . Floating voters

Huge numbers of people are undecided in 2010. A record turnout for smaller
parties such as Ukip, the Greens and the BNP is odds-on. The number of floaters
this time round - along with general disillusionment with politics - makes this
election the hardest to call in a generation.

G is for Gate

Every election has an unexpected scandal, which emerges when newspapers grow
terrified of being left out, want again to feel "part of the process", so haul
the dirty stuff from the back of the safe - and such furores are almost
invariably, today, suffixed "gate" (a la Watergate). Even in the run-up to the
election there have been lots of "gates" including "bullygate" (the controversy
over Brown's attitude to staff management in Number 10), "lobbygate" (the
scandal over MPs such as Stephen Byers selling their expertise to lobbyists) and
"Ashcroftgate" (the hoo-hah over his decade-long refusal to reveal his tax
status). The only reason we had the "war of Jennifer's Ear" and not
"Jennifergate" during the 1992 election was because of a faintly spurious link
to the War of Jenkins' Ear. Hopes must be high that, if there's a Tory
implosion, it emanates from the area of west London where the Tory leadership
and its friends live, love and water: who could resist Notting Hill Gate Gate?

And. . . Griffin, Nick

The leader of the British National party believes that 2010 will be the year his
far-right group makes significant breakthroughs in national politics. Griffin
reached millions of voters during his controversial appearance on Question Time.
Griffin, who is already an MEP for the north-west, is standing as a prospective
parliamentary candidate against Margaret Hodge in Barking, Essex, but has
admitted he is there in part to draw attention from the local battle for the
council. His party is in crisis this weekend following an alleged attempted coup
by senior figures.

H is for Hung parliament

This happens when no single party has an overall majority in the Commons. In
such circumstances the government will not be able to guarantee its ability to
win votes and push through a legislative programme without the support of other
parties. To gain an absolute majority, a party will need 326 seats. Labour will
lose its absolute majority if it loses 24 seats and the Conservatives will gain
an absolute majority if they gain 116. Any result in between will result in
parliament being hung - and the polls suggest we may be in a position where no
party will get an overall majority.

What happens then? Brown can try to hang on in power for a period even if his
party does not win the largest number of seats. In 1974, Edward Heath stayed on
for four days after the election trying to put together a coalition, even though
Labour had the most seats in Parliament.

A party can stay in government without an absolute majority and try to forge a
coalition, involving policy concessions and the award of senior jobs to other
parties. Or it can form a minority government and hope for the best in
parliamentary votes.

When did we last go down this road? In the first of two elections in 1974, no
party won an outright majority. Labour won 301 seats and the Conservatives 297.
Harold Wilson formed a minority government, but it did not last long. A second
election in October gave Wilson a majority of three.

And. . . Hoon (noun)

Originally from a notoriously discontinued piece of army ordnance which
scattered poison among its own ranks, did no damage whatever to the enemy and
later self-destructed in its own HQ. Now likely to be used for a failing piece
of electioneering, as in "Better pack the bags, darling. I think I've made a
right Hoon of the campaign."

I is for Immigration

Tory strategists have said they would be happy to get through the entire
campaign without making immigration much of an issue. Party officials feel the
focus on it harmed them in 2005 under the leadership of Michael Howard. They
should be so lucky. Many of those among the grassroots think that immigration is
too important to ignore - and could be a vote winner among swaths of the
electorate.

J is for Joanne Cash

The blonde Conservative candidate who is close to Cameron and has become
synonymous with the tensions between grassroots Tories and the Cameronistas.
Some of the more traditional Conservative members resent the level of central
office interference in candidate selection. Cash, a pregnant libel lawyer, won
through in a fierce battle to keep her place as candidate in the Westminster
seat. She caused controversy after slamming the traditionalists on her Twitter
page. She wrote: "RIP Dinosaurs" before adding, "I am not leaving. It's official
- DC [David Cameron] has changed the party!!!!!!!!". If the Tories do worse than
expected in such seats, the party's leader should expect rising resentment.

And. . . JK Rowling and Jim Davidson

The bestselling author is one celebrity backing Labour, while Cameron gets the
vote of the comedian. The Tories also get Kirstie Allsop and Ian Botham, while
Labour can draw support from Naomi Campbell. Who will win the battle of the
celebrity vote?

And. . . Johnsons as in Boris (and his brother Jo)

What part if any will the maverick mayor play? His brother Jo is standing as a
candidate for Orpington in Kent.

K is for Kaminski

Michal Kaminski is the Polish politician who leads the Conservative MEPs in a
new grouping in the European Parliament. Cameron caused controversy when he
decided to pull out of the mainstream European People's Party, which includes
pro-EU federalist parties such as the German Christian Democrats. But his hunt
to create a new alliance led him into the arms of some controversial parties
such as Kaminski's Law and Justice party. Kaminski has been accused of being a
homophobe and allying with anti-Semitic causes. Labour and the Lib Dems say that
by linking up with such people (and in Kaminski's case allowing him to head the
new group) the Tories have shown they tolerate extremism. They also say a
Conservative government will be marginalised in vital EU discussions because
mainstream parties across Europe will not take them seriously.

L is for Lesbians and gays

The fight for the lesbian and gay vote will be a key one. Labour is proud of its
record in having advanced gay equality since 1997, an achievement hailed last
weekend when Chris Bryant became the first gay MP to marry in the House of
Commons. But Cameron has tried to reposition his party as equally liberal. Last
year he apologised for Section 28, a Conservative law introduced in the late
1980s which effectively prevented teaching about gay issues.

But many of his MPs and MEPs - and his new allies in Europe - take a different
view. Indeed, the Tory leader was embarrassed by questions on the attitude of
Tory peers to gay rights in a Channel 4 interview, during which he admitted he
was not on top of the detail. Today we report that Chris Grayling, the shadow
home secretary, supports the right of owners of bed and breakfasts to turn away
same-sex couples.

A recent poll for PinkNews.co.uk found that Labour is still the top choice for
gay voters. Some 28% of lesbian and gay voters backed the party, with the Tories
and Lib Dems on 25% each. The Greens came fourth with 19%. While the Tories had
made progress (only 17% of respondents voted Tory in 2005), they were in a far
stronger position a year ago. Last June a similar poll placed Cameron's party on
39% compared with 29% for Labour. But rows over their European allies'
unreconstructed views appear to have damaged them.

M is for Mumsnet

Ed Balls, Andy Burnham, Maria Miller and Ed Miliband are just some of the MPs
who have gone online to court the Mumsnet vote. So has political wife, Sarah
Brown - and her husband Gordon. He failed to answer a question about his
favourite biscuit, while Cameron became embroiled in a dispute about nappies.

The 2010 vote has been called the Mumsnet election as politicians of all sides
fall over themselves to secure a place in front of the website's 880,000 monthly
users. Up to 40% of the "mothers with laptops" are thought to be undecided on
how to vote and the easiest way to access them is to take a pew in front of the
screen and take them on post-by-post. Gaffe-prone Boris Johnson and Peter
"Mandy" Mandelson are next.

And. . . Motorway Man

The floating voter who, say pollsters, will determine the result. The label
denotes young, "aspirational" couples who live near motorway junctions and drive
off separately each morning to work in different towns or business parks.
Community ties are no longer important to them, but material possessions are.
They have been described as politically and ideologically footloose, looking at
political parties the way some people look at cars.

N is National Insurance

The government hope to use a 1% hike in the tax starting next April will help
them to reduce the deficit. But the Tory pledge to reverse the increase - paid
using £ 12bn in efficiency savings - has led to one of the most bitter political
battles between the parties with high-profile business leaders wading into the
debate. Last Friday, 14 more leading company chiefs added their names to
protests about the Labour policy. The opposition already had the support of
prominent brands such as Marks & Spencers, Easyjet and Sainsbury's as well the
Confederation of British Industry. Among the new names were the boss of the
Formula 1 team, McLaren, the chief executive of the HMV group and former Labour
donor Richard Caring, the restaurant entrepreneur. Labour insists the move is
the fairest options, with Ed Balls, the secretary of state for education
claiming the Tories will instead hike VAT.

O is for Osborne, George

He was just 33 when he was appointed shadow chancellor and it seems his youth
might still be a problem. Now 38, he has been relentlessly attacked for his lack
of experience. The Labour party has vowed to target him as the Tory "weak link"
and he regularly polls badly behind the chancellor, Alistair Darling, and even
further behind the Liberal Democrats' Vince Cable. But Osborne has been boosted
in the past week by support from business for his plan to reverse a government
plan to increase National Insurance. In an interview with the Guardian
yesterday, he claimed the business revolt had destroyed the case for the
government.

And. . . Old friend

Tony Blair, sporting a strange orange sun tan which attracted more comment than
his speech, was wheeled out last week in support of Brown. But will he be a hero
or a hindrance for Labour?

P is for Political wives

Sarah spoke of "my hero", Sam Cam unveiled her bump and Miriam promised "150%" -
well, when she isn't working or looking after three children. In 2010, the
political wives are centre-stage and Gordon, Dave and Nick know it. Sarah has
long been thought of as one of the best things about Gordon. The stylish (think
Erdem dresses and fashion week) former PR consultant knows how to work the media
and is trying hard to secure the popularity of Brand Brown - using well-timed
appearances and her million-plus followers on Twitter. Sam Cam, the creative
director of Smythson, has been described as the Tories' secret weapon, albeit
one with a "pretty clear view of how she wants to be deployed". The first step
was to appear on an ITV documentary and profess her love for the "definitely not
perfect" Dave.

Then there is Miriam Gonzalez, the high-flying city lawyer also known as Mrs
Clegg, who promises to be "supportive" but not "submissive".

And. . . Power of the polls

Labour aides have already admitted to opening the Sun with dread each day. The
newspaper, which has come out fiercely in support of the Tories, will publish
six YouGov polls a week through the election. For some time now, the national
picture has all pointed at one outcome: a Hung Parliament.

And. . . Post-neo-Classical Endogenous Growth Therapy

High on the list of Things You Won't Hear. This was the phrase Gordon Brown used
in 1994 when shadow chancellor, and attracted derision from, among others, the
Plain English Campaign. Those were the simple days - how he must yearn for them
- when Brown only had to worry about the economy, and being seen as high-handed,
intellectually precious and out of touch with "real people". How times have, er,
changed.

Q is for Queen

Brown will pay Her Majesty a visit, almost certainly on Tuesday, and tell her he
wants to call a general election. Because this country does not have a written
constitution, there is a certain lack of clarity over what are known as the
monarch's "personal prerogatives". One is the power to dissolve parliament.
There is no actual "law" that prevents the Queen from dissolving parliament when
she wants.

But convention dictates that it is the prime minister alone who decides the
timing of a dissolution and a general election and that he or she advises the
monarch when the moment is right.

R is for Rees-Moggs

Last year Cameron (who is a bit prickly about the posh charge) jokingly
suggested to Annunziata Rees-Mogg, Conservative candidate for Somerton and Frome
and daughter of the Times columnist, William, that she might like to change her
name to Nancy Mogg because it sounded a bit more. . . well, ordinary.

Equally politely, but firmly, she told him where to get off. (She is a
fearsomely independent young operator who it might be advisable for Cameron to
whip quickly into his government tent if he wins.) And she is not the only
bearer of the double-barrelled name in that neck of the west country. Her
brother, the wonderfully patrician Jacob Rees-Mogg, is contesting North East
Somerset.

S is for the Swedish model

Education has been a dominant issue in the run-up to the election with a debate
raging about the Tory's "free-schools" policy based on Sweden's model. The party
has promised to help groups of parents - or teachers, charities and other
organisations - to set up schools. If their plans meet basic standards, they
would be given the go-ahead.

One of the most controversial aspects of the policy is the fact that while those
setting up the schools must be not-for-profit, the parents could then
subcontract the running of the school to a private company for a "management
fee". Critics claim the scheme is simply a way of unleashing the forces of the
free market onto schools. The Tories insist it is not.

T is for Televised debates

For the first time, the three main leaders - Gordon Brown, David Cameron and
Nick Clegg - will take each other on face to face in three 90-minute sessions
live on television. First they will head to the north-west to tackle domestic
issues with ITV newsreader Alastair Stewart, above left; then to the south-west
for a battle on global affairs to be moderated by Sky's political editor Adam
Boulton, above centre. Finally it will be the turn of the BBC - and the economy,
chaired by David Dimbleby, above right, from the Midlands. Studio audiences will
be allowed to ask questions but not to applaud.

The debate organisers will be under heavy scrutiny from all three party
headquarters. When Vince Cable, the Lib Dems' shadow chancellor, appeared to be
coming out on top in the recent chancellors' debate, the Tories called a Channel
4 hotline three times during the broadcast to complain that he was receiving
favourable treatment.

And. . . Twitter

The twitterati were unheard of in 2005 - largely because Twitter hadn't been
invented. But this time round, all the main parties have geared their spin
machines up to this new force in political communication. Twitter wars are bound
to break at key moments of the campaign, notably the three leaders' debates. The
party that can best mobilise its supporters through social media - as President
Obama did to great effect in the US - is likely to benefit hugely.

U is for Unite

The super-union is giving £ 4m to the Labour campaign. Its political director is
Brown's former spin doctor Charlie Whelan. But Unite has done Brown no favours
of late by bringing out its BA cabin crew members on strike. Cameron has
pounced, saying that Labour remains in the pocket of its union paymasters and
Brown is too weak and reliant on them to act. The Tories suggest that the
country under Labour is going back to the pre-Thatcher Seventies and an era of
industrial strife.

V is for Vince Cable

Polls show that "St Vince", the Liberal Democrat shadow chancellor, is regarded
as the most credible steward of the economy by most people. Will he lift the
party's vote?

W is for Wobble

Best to do it early. The Tories have been wobbling since their poll lead began
to fall from a heady 20 points down to single figures. They had a particularly
big wobble during their Spring Forum, when a YouGov poll placed them just two
points ahead. But they are wobbling a little less now, with those business gurus
lining up to support their position on National Insurance. Labour had an
all-time wobble on 1 April, 1992 when it hosted the Sheffield Rally a week
before the election; 10,000 members attended and Neil Kinnock, the leader, was
flown in by helicopter. After losing, he admitted regretting the triumphalism of
the event.

X is for 'Xpenses

Around 140 MPs are leaving parliament. Some have been forced out because of the
expenses scandal and others simply can't face the sudden decline in their
standing in the eyes of the public. The election could turn on the levels of
support for those who have angered their constituents with their expense claims
but have refused to step down.

One interesting case will be Hazel Blears, the former cabinet minister who got
into hot water for flipping her homes and quit her post after Brown criticised
her publicly. There has been local pressure to oust her up in Salford. It will
be fascinating to see how much the second-placed Lib Dems and third-placed
Tories can eat into her 8,000 majority. Similarly, former home secretary Jacqui
Smith, who got into trouble over her housing claims and her husband's claim for
a blue movie, will also be in trouble. Her majority of 2,716 in Redditch has
been cut (notionally) to below 2,000 by boundary changes.

And. . . X-rated

Lib Dem candidate for Gravesham, Kent, Anna Arrowsmith is a director of porn
movies. Last year she won a battle with censors to be allowed to show a scene of
female ejaculation. "There will be some people who will never like porn," she
said recently. "People approach sex in different ways. For some it is only an
emotional act. For others it is a variety of acts. Some people will never accept
that. They are probably the same people who never had a one-night stand. There
will be some people who are conservative and very anti-porn. I think on the
whole these days people are far more liberal."

Y is for Year for Change

A favourite Tory theme of the election as David Cameron hopes to woo voters with
the notion of something different.

Z is for Zero - as in lots of them

Such as 167,000,000,000, the UK's budget deficit, meaning that whoever wins will
enjoy one of the shortest political honeymoons in history.

Captions:

David Cameron and media management supremo Andy Coulson. Rex

This is appropriate dummy text that is being employed in order to ascertain
anThis is appropriate dummy text that is being employed in order to ascertain an
approximate

A hoodie evokes the image of 'broken Britain', as portrayed by David Cameron.

Brighton's gay pride parade: their support will be a key battle area for both
parties.

The leaders' wives - from left Sarah Brown, Miriam Gonzalez and Samantha Cameron
- will be centre stage in the election, and their husbands know it. Rex/Getty/PA


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              296 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 4, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW TV AND RADIO; Pg. 54

LENGTH: 454 words


RADIO 1 97.6-99.8 MHz 6.30 Scott Mills 10.00 Fearne Cotton 12.45 Newsbeat 1.00
Huw Stephens 4.00 Greg James 6.00 Friday Floor Fillers 7.00 Annie Mac 9.00 Pete
Tong 11.00 Judge Jules 1.00 Kutski 3.00 Essential Mix

RADIO 2 88-91 MHz 7.00 Chris Evans 9.30 Zoe Ball 12.00 Jeremy Vine 2.00 Steve
Wright 5.00 Richard Madeley 7.00 Desmond Carrington 8.00 Friday Night Is Music
Night 10.00 The Arts Show 12.00 Mark Lamarr

RADIO 3 90.2-92.4 MHz 7.00 Breakfast 10.00 Classical Collection 12.00 Composer
of the Week: Richard Strauss (5/5) 1.00 Lunchtime Concert. French pianist
Jacques Loussier performs his own versions of music by Bach and other composers
at City Halls in Glasgow. 2.00 Afternoon on 3: Lucerne Festivals 2009 5.00 In
Tune 7.00 Performance on 3. Julia Fischer concludes her recital of Bach's
complete works for unaccompanied solo violin at the Wigmore Hall. Followed by
Mahler's Lieder eines fahrenden Gesellen, sung by Markus Werba (baritone) with
the Orchestre National de France under Daniele Gatti. 9.15 The Verb. With Ian
McMillan. 10.00 Composer of the Week (R) (5/5) 11.00 The Essay: Henry - King of
Kings (R) (5/5) 11.15 World on 3. A studio session by the Cuban pianist and
bandleader Chucho Valdes. 1.00 Through the Night

RADIO 4 92.4-94.6 MHz; 198kHz 6.00 Today 9.00 The Reunion (R) (1/5) 9.45 (LW)
Act of Worship 9.45 (FM) Book of the Week: Parisians, by Graham Robb. (5/5)
10.00 Woman's Hour. Includes at 10.45 Drama: A Small Town Murder, by Scott
Cherry. (5/5) 11.00 Ruby Murray: The Secret Story of Curry 11.30 Meet David
Sedaris (2/4) 12.00 News 12.01 (LW) Shipping Forecast 12.04 You and Yours 1.00
The World at One 1.30 Feedback 2.00 The Archers 2.15 Afternoon Play See picks of
the day, above. 3.00 Gardeners' Question Time 3.45 Food for Thought (R) (5/5)
4.00 Last Word 4.30 The Film Programme 5.00 PM 5.54 (LW) Shipping Forecast 6.00
News 6.30 The Now Show (6/6) 7.00 The Archers 7.15 Front Row 7.45 A Small Town
Murder. Broadcast earlier. (5/5) 8.00 Any Questions? Panellists in Penrith,
Cumbria, are the MPs Andy Burnham, Eric Pickles, Jo Swinson and the MEP Nigel
Farage of UKIP. 8.50 A Point of View. With Simon Schama. 9.00 A History of the
World in 100 Objects. Omnibus. (6/6) 9.59 Weather 10.00 The World Tonight 10.45
Book at Bedtime: Dancing Backwards, by Salley Vickers. (10/10) 11.00 Great
Lives: Bertolt Brecht (R) (1/8) 11.30 Bespoken Word at Cardiff University (R)
12.00 News 12.30 Book of the Week: Parisians, by Graham Robb. (R) (5/5) 12.48
Shipping Forecast 1.00 World Service

RADIO 5 LIVE 693, 909 kHz 6.00 Breakfast 10.00 Victoria Derbyshire 12.00 Mark
Pougatch 2.00 Kermode and Mayo's Film Review 5.00 Drive 7.00 Kicking Off with
Colin Murray 10.00 Stephen Nolan 1.00 Up All Night


LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              297 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 April 4, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Row as BNP given prime interview slot

BYLINE: ROBERT MENDICK ; MIRA BAR-HILLEL

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 692 words


SENIOR BBC journalists are furious that Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, is being
guaranteed prime-time interview slots in compensation for his omission from the
first televised prime ministerial debates.

A new directive issued by corporation executives forces the editors of flagship
news programmes to give airtime to minority parties, including the BNP,
immediately after the live debate between Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick
Clegg.

Insiders have told The Sunday Telegraph that they are deeply unhappy and believe
that the edict - overseen by the BBC's deputy director general and head of
journalism, Mark Byford - could ruin proper reporting of the debates.

The editors and presenters on BBC Radio 4's Today programme have been told they
must interview representatives of the BNP, Ukip, the Green Party, SNP and Plaid
Cymru on the same show, the morning after the debates.

Sources said this will leave almost no room for serious discussion of how the
three mainstream leaders performed. One source said: "We're all spitting
feathers here. This is further proof that the BBC's obsession with 'compliance'
is destroying its news coverage and journalism.

"The only result of this directive from Mark Byford, and the rest of the
overpaid detached senior management, is that listeners will simply switch off in
droves. The idea of having to interview the Ukip leader, Nigel Farage - let
alone Nick Griffin - is turning people's stomachs."

Another senior source added: "People are very angry indeed. The Today programme
has an audience of 6.5 million people and everybody knows it is easily the most
important of the BBC's morning news programmes. And yet it is being treated like
the man at the Lord Mayor's Show who has to walk behind the main parade sweeping
up the muck with a bucket and a shovel. The Today programme is being used to
assuage the minority parties rather than doing what it is meant to, which is
analysing the performance of the three main party leaders."

In addition to the Today programme slot, the minority parties, including the
BNP, will be given airtime immediately after the debate on BBC One's News at Ten
as well as on Newsnight on BBC Two. The directive will infuriate campaigners who
believe the BBC has already pandered to Mr Griffin by allowing him to appear on
Question Time last year. The BBC was accused of needlessly giving him publicity
to boost ratings.

Under the new rules, the nationalist parties will also get their own local
television leadership debates in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland. There
will be three, 90-minute televised debates, each taking place a week apart in
the run-up to the election, expected on May 6. The first will be broadcast on
ITV1, the second on Sky News, and the third on BBC One.

The BBC will screen the debates on rival channels later that evening "as live"
which will be followed by further discussion with the fringe parties. BBC
insiders fear they will have to give minority parties compensatory airtime after
each of the three debates - not just following the BBC contest, although that
has been denied by the corporation.

The BBC defended its decision to give slots to the minority parties, saying it
was necessary to maintain impartiality. Ric Bailey, the BBC's chief political
adviser, said: "This [row] is a complete nonsense. This is about the BBC
ensuring due impartiality to make sure the other parties get fair
representation.

"During an election we have a very high threshold for making sure that minority
parties - based on their electoral support - get appropriate coverage. Because
this [debate] is so new and different we are trying to plan this ahead."

Sky News sources said the channel would also have to accommodate the minority
parties in the wake of the debates, but since it has 24 hours of rolling news,
little in the way of analysis will be sacrificed to make space for them.

The source said: "We have a lot of airtime - 24 hours a day, in fact - so it's
relatively easy for us to reflect the views of the minority parties."

ITV was unavailable for comment.

This is further proof that the BBC's obsession with compliance is destroying its
news coverage and journalism

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nick Griffin: "compensatory" airtime

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              298 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 4, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Dear BBC, women vote too

BYLINE: ELEANOR MILLS

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1081 words


This week the starting gun for the election campaign proper will be fired;
polling day is pretty certain to be May 6, the same day as numerous local
elections. Any other choice would cost extra millions - not good for the
government in these straitened times.

I love an election. I've been part of them since I was a child. Being raised in
a political family means going canvassing.

You start young. There are pictures of me sitting gap-toothed in my best
black-and-white spotty party dress on Jim Callaghan's knee in Ilford in 1979. He
lost, of course. Crushingly.

But the excitement and drama have always stayed with me. I love it that
everything is up for grabs; that the most powerful people in Britain could be
toppled. That they are going to spend the next month trotting around,
frantically speechifying, trying to get everyone to vote for them. So before we
get too cynical, let's take a moment to savour our democracy in action and
remember there are people around the globe fighting and dying for what we all
too often take for granted.

Why, then, am I already feeling so cheesed off with the 2010 campaign? It
started last Monday as I watched the three male wannabe chancellors in their
television debate. Then I watched Newsnight. Again, three middle-aged white men
and a male presenter talking about the three other chaps. The next night it was
worse: John Prescott, Eric Pickles and Chris Huhne. It was like watching a trio
of drunken old bores having a particularly tedious row in the pub. I turned the
programme off in disgust.

I hadn't tuned in to watch chestthumping between greying gorillas; for all the
sense they were making, they could easily have been grunting.

I tried again on Wednesday: this time the subject was immigration and once again
it was another four-way ego-fest in which Phil Woolas, the unedifying
immigration minister, shouted at some ghastly geezer from UKIP and claimed to be
an expert on London's East End because he has an Oldham constituency.

We didn't hear from a single woman in any of these discussions, nor anyone from
an ethnic minority. I am white, middle-aged and middle-class myself and I felt
entirely alienated. How much worse must it be if you are young and Asian or
female and Muslim watching these meatheads? These programmes are funded by the
taxpayer yet the talking heads bear no relation to the sex, age, race or views
of the majority of the population. How odd that this race has been dubbed the
Mumsnet election: maybe the chaps hope that by branding it so, they don't
actually need to ask any women to join their panels to explain what they think.

So, much joy later in the week when my dark feminist suspicions were proved
entirely correct by a certain Ceri Thomas, editor of the BBC's flagship morning
show, the Today programme.

Asked why just 20% of Today's output features a female presenter or reporter, he
answered that it was because Today is an "incredibly difficult" environment.

There are, by contrast, more women on the BBC News channel "because I think
those are slightly easier jobs ... but the skill set that you need to work on
the Today programme, and the hide that you need, the thickness of that, is
something else. It's an incredibly difficult place to work".

That's right, the poor fairy-headed girlies just can't cut it with the big boys,
can they? We can't be trusted to talk to politicians unless it's on Mumsnet
about biscuits. Let's just all stay at home and bake cupcakes and read bedtime
stories like proper ladies, shall we? And perhaps, if it's okay with you and not
too challenging, we might pop up occasionally to talk about frocks or raising
children - or, I don't know, gardening.

What planet is this Ceri Thomas moron on? Has he never heard of any brilliant,
brave female war reporters such as Marie Colvin, who won yet another press award
last week, and has lost an eye in the line of fire? Or Christina Lamb, now our
Washington correspondent, or any, in fact, of the women at the top who have
proved themselves on the most macho turf possible? I fail to see how Today or
Newsnight is a harder arena to work in than, say, the prime minister's office
... Margaret Thatcher, anyone? Or running Pearson, or Anglo-American or Kraft
Foods - all jobs held by women? I grew up with an aunt who was the director of
public prosecutions (much too hard for a woman, surely, Ceri Thomas?) and a
stepmother in the cabinet who is responsible for the media as well as the
Olympics - I doubt the editor of the Today programme would have let her do that.

Just as he was imparting his views, the Department for Business, Innovation and
Skills announced that the number of young women going to university markedly
exceeded that of young men: 51% of women and just 38% of men. Half of qualified
doctors are women and 60% of newly qualified solicitors.

There is a demographic tsunami building: in decades to come there will be far
more highly educated females than males. As influential thinkers such as the
American Mark Penn have documented, boys and young men are falling behind: they
are losing their earning power and having to rethink their roles. They are the
winners only in crime, social exclusion and alcoholism. Meanwhile, coming up
through the ranks of the professions and business (female entrepreneurs notably
bucked the recessionary trend) are legions of superpowered, ambitious women,
bred to work and determined to succeed.

It is true that the top of many businesses and old institutions such as the BBC
and parliament is still overwhelmingly male and white. The higher echelons of
power - with a few noble exceptions - are still a cosy backslapping club where
membership is by invitation only and you get invited only if you are one of
them. But the demographics are against them. They are the end of the line.
Attitudes such as those of Thomas, or a certain business titan who greeted me at
dinner with the phrase: "What does your husband do?", are on the way out. They
are dinosaurs, about to be washed off the earth by a wave of female achievers.

Last weekend my seven-year-old daughter asked me why there were no women leading
the election. "It's unfair that all the leaders are men," she said. "Women have
proved that they can do everything just as well as men."

She's right. The only people who don't know that are the dinosaurs. It's up to
all of us to speed their demise.

eleanormills@sunday-times.co.uk

'It seems we women can't be trusted to talk to politicians unless it's on
Mumsnet about biscuits'

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sarah Montague joins James Naughtie to present Today but only 20% of
the flagship programme's output features a female presenter or reporter

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              299 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 4, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

There's more than one way to hide a donor

BYLINE: Solvej Krause; Daniel Foggo; Claire Newell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1632 words


DESPITE having one of its former MEPs jailed for expenses fraud last year, the
UK Independence party has benefited from the current distrust of the larger
parties and is fielding its candidates in the general election on an anti-sleaze
platform. Yet its commitment to upholding political standards has now been
revealed as less than perfect.

Stuart Agnew, a UKIP MEP, and Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the party's leader, have
told undercover reporters how a real donor's name could be kept secret by
passing tens of thousands of pounds through intermediaries.

If carried out, one or more of the suggested methods could have been illegal.

Our disclosures will embarrass UKIP and Pearson, who also told the undercover
reporter that some UKIP members were "neanderthals" and described Agnew, 60, as
"one of our only really sane MEPs".

An undercover reporter approached Agnew last month, saying that her aunt wanted
to make a substantial donation to UKIP while keeping her identity secret. This
was, the reporter explained, because her aunt was a senior civil servant who
would find it professionally embarrassing to have her name publicly linked with
the party.

Agnew, who joined UKIP 11 years ago and was elected to the European parliament
in 2009, was initially circumspect. Asked if the real donor's name would have to
be revealed publicly, he said: "I'm afraid if it's significant it would have to
be." But within minutes he appeared to contradict himself.

"If she can trust you she could give you a huge sum of money and you could give
it to the party," he said.

"I will try and look into all these things though to see what can be done so
there are a few options," he added.

A few days later, Agnew rang to say that after taking advice from "experts" he
had "encouraging information" and suggested a meeting.

Last Thursday he met the undercover reporter at a hotel in Colchester, Essex.
Agnew began by outlining the law on giving anonymous donations. Any donation of
more than £7,500 to a party headquarters, or £1,500 to a party individual or
branch, must be declared to the Electoral Commission and the donor's name given.

Although Agnew did not mention it, if a donation of more than £7,500 is made via
a third party or agent, the details of the real donor must also be given to the
political party so that they can be supplied to the commission, which then
publishes them on its website. Making anonymous large donations by proxy is not
allowed. After summarising for the reporter the level permitted for anonymous
donations, Agnew said: "Now this is where it gets a bit more complicated. She
[the aunt] can give money to what's known as an unincorporated association."

Unincorporated associations, which do not have to file accounts, are allowed to
make donations to political parties. There have long been suspicions, however,
that they can be used as "filters" to pass money from donors who want to remain
anonymous.

New rules state that donations totalling more than £25,000 a year from an
unincorporated association will result in further scrutiny from the commission.
It then demands a full list of everyone who has given to the association over
the course of the previous year.

Even for donations of less than £25,000, however, the association is still
required to disclose the true name of any donor who is using it as a proxy to
give money.

Agnew suggested using Global Britain, which was set up in 1997 by Pearson and
two other peers and now also includes fellow UKIP peer Lord Willoughby de Broke.
It describes itself on its website as a "geo-political think tank" which
conducts Eurosceptic research. Last May it donated £80,000 to UKIP in the run-up
to the Euro elections.

Agnew said: "I've spoken to Nigel Farage [the UKIP MEP and former leader] and he
says at the moment you can put £25,000 into Global Britain and you will remain
anonymous."

He went on: "Of course, there is an element of trust though that your aunt wants
that money into UKIP. Now, as the thing is run by Malcolm Pearson and as he is
the leader of UKIP, there's a pretty good chance, isn't there, that that money
will go in the right direction."

Agnew later rang Farage in front of the reporter to recheck the possibility of
giving the amount to UKIP via Global Britain.

Agnew continued to run down his list of ways of giving anonymously. He said:
"Another thing she [the aunt] could do: you are her niece - she could give you
£3,000 before April 5, in other words before the end of the tax year ... as a
present, as a gift. You would then immediately give UKIP a donation of £3,000."
Agnew said she could then do the same next week - now in a new financial year -
and in both cases avoid any tax penalties.

Adding all those methods together would allow the "aunt" to donate £38,500
anonymously, he said.

Then he raised the stakes even higher. "Your mother [sic] can make you a loan of
£100,000 to buy a house ... and you would then become a donor to the party for
£100,000 and your name would go up on the [commission] website." Agnew said when
the real donor died, she could state in her will that the loan was now a gift,
thus writing it off. "You are seen to be the donor rather than her," he said.

He added: "A loan can be for any amount if you are looking at a way of getting a
substantial sum of money in your name.

But remember, your name would then go on the website. And it would take quite an
investigative journalist to try and work out [who you are].

"Nobody knows your particular status, you could have inherited money." During
the meeting Agnew also admitted that he was using taxpayers' money to pay half
the salary of an assistant - UKIP regional organiser Peter Reeve - whose amount
of actual work for him was "virtually none".

"I can tell you that Peter is paid partly by me out of my assistance allowance
here partly by David [Campbell] Bannerman [another UKIP MEP]. He does very
little work for us, virtually none. He is working for the party. And that's
strictly illegal."

Salaries paid via MEPs' assistance allowance must not fund party work. The EU's
anti-fraud watchdog Olaf has been investigating some of Agnew's fellow MEPs over
a similar matter.

The day after the meeting, Agnew spoke on the phone to the reporter a number of
times. He said he had talked to Pearson about the possibility of making the
donation to UKIP via Global Britain.

"He did confirm that two anonymous donations can be made. Up to £7,500 can be
made directly to the party and £25,000 to Global Britain," he said, describing
the latter method as a "loophole". "If your aunt is willing to give us £32,500
[£25,000 plus £7,500] then it can be done anonymously."

Another undercover reporter then spoke to Pearson, who said the money given to
his unincorporated association would be passed "straight on" to UKIP: "I could
pass it on the same day."

He insisted: "The Electoral Commission knows that we will be doing all this,
because someone else who is a major Conservative donor also wanted similar
anonymity. The main thing is that it mustn't be a straight filter."

Asked if he could guarantee her name would not come out, he said: "Yes, we did
it in the European elections [in 2009]. We passed on £80,000 from one person in
effect ... and that caused no difficulty at all." He said he would check with
the Electoral Commission and "if there was any doubt I would honestly rather go
without rather than risk it".

When confronted, Pearson said he thought unincorporated associations were
allowed to pass on donations of not more than £25,000 directly. He also said he
would have given the donor's name to the commission, although he said he was
"not sure" if he had passed on the name of Patrick Barbour, a former Tory donor
who he said was the person who donated £80,000 to UKIP through them last year.
He claimed Barbour had given Global Britain £100,000 saying he would be "happy"
if most of it went to UKIP.

He explained why he thought Barbour had wanted to stay anonymous: "He'd rather
the Conservative party didn't know he was giving that sort of money, you know,"
he said.

He said: "It still is my understanding that I do not think that what I said
yesterday to your [undercover] reporter is wrong. I'm sorry if it is, and I'll
apologise." Pearson said he was regularly in touch with the commission over
Global Britain and donations.

Agnew said: "It's not cut and dried and the acts are complicated.

The law is often very difficult to interpret."

Bannerman denied Reeve did no work for him and Agnew. He said Reeve worked for
UKIP only "in his spare time". Reeve agreed.

Farage said: "I said to Stuart Agnew, I can't take this any further, that she
[the aunt] would have to come and meet face to face with Lord Pearson and talk
about it."

Barbour said of his donation last year: "I am pretty sure that I left it up to
[Pearson's] discretion what it was spent on."

In a later call he said he had not given to Global Britain in order to conceal
an anonymous donation to UKIP.

A spokesman for the commission said it would take "appropriate action" if
breaches of the rules had occurred.

SUNDAY TIMES ONLINE

For undercover recordings of Stuart Agnew and Lord Pearson go to
timesonline.co.uk/politics

Gift rules

Giving donations of more than £7,500 to a political party while having your
identity concealed is illegal.

An intermediary who gives more than the £7,500 threshold on behalf of someone
else must reveal the donor's true identity.

Unincorporated associations can make donations, but the money must not be
channelled from an individual who wants anonymity.

LORD PEARSON

'We did it in the European elections. We passed on £80,000 from one person in
effect ... and that caused no difficulty at all'

UKIP Leader

STUART AGNEW

'Your mother can make you a loan of £100,000 to buy a house and you would then
become a donor to the party for £100,000'

UKIP MEP

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage maintains that the mystery donor would have had to meet
Lord Pearson, top
PAUL ROGERS
Stuart Agnew suggested ways for a donor to give money anonymously

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              300 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 4, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

UKIP leader in donor scandal

BYLINE: Daniel Foggo; Solvej Krause

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 197 words


SENIOR members of UKIP, including the party's leader, have been caught telling a
potential donor how to flout Electoral Commission rules to give up to £100,000
in secret to its general election campaign funds.

Stuart Agnew, a Euro-MP, described a series of ruses to conceal the identity of
a donor at a meeting with an undercover reporter.

In a subsequent conversation, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the UKIP leader,
confirmed that the donor's name would not come out.

"Yes, we did it in the European elections [in 2009]," he said. "We passed on
£80,000 from one person in effect ... and that caused no difficulty at all."

The use of proxies to conceal the identify of a political donor caused a scandal
in 2007 that blew Gordon Brown's premiership off course and prompted a criminal
investigation.

Agnew told the undercover reporter, who was posing as the niece of a
publicity-shy party supporter, how her aunt could give her a non-repayable loan
of £100,000 which could then be passed to UKIP.

He said she could otherwise make a donation of up to £25,000 to UKIP via an
unincorporated association such as Global Britain, which is run by Pearson.

There's more than one way to hide a donor, page 4

LOAD-DATE: April 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              301 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

An election fight? I'm up for it again;
Country diary

SECTION: WEEKEND;FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 664 words


Ihave just breathed a great sigh of relief - Lulu has promised that she will not
leave me if I stand for Parliament again. She believes that it is a lost cause,
but she will grin and bear it. After all, how many independent candidates win
seats? For some reason she cannot see me settling easily into the House of
Commons - the House of Sleaze - surrounded by people who do not seem to know
where they live, and who expect the taxpayer to fund Sky dishes, food bills and
gravel for their drives.

In return, I have promised Lulu that I will not stand again - well, almost
promised - so this election could be my last. It seems a long time since I stood
for the first time and that was in 1979. It astonishes me now that I stood as a
young Tory Boy in Bethnal Green. The amazing thing, too, is that I achieved the
second-highest swing to the Tories in the country and saved my deposit.

What it taught me was that I didn't really like politicians and the only man I
took to then was a socialist and an anti-European, Peter Shore. I have come to
realise that he was a rarity: a likeable, honest politician. My disillusion with
politics meant that when the next election was held I was writing a book, The
Wildlife of the Royal Estates. That seemed, and was, far more interesting and
worthwhile.

The privatisation of water and electricity and the woeful behaviour of the
Tories on Europe has meant that since then I have stood for anti-EU parties, my
greatest boast being that I have never been beaten by the Monster Raving Loony
Party, although it was very close once.

Now, since leaving UKIP, I am going to stand as an independent. Although I like
Lord Pearson, UKIP's leader, I have little in common with either the politics or
standards of behaviour of several of UKIP's leading lights. (For more
information, see www.robinpage. org.uk). Of the other three main parties - what
is the difference? They all seem to be peas out of the same pod. No thank you.

All the parties have failed the countryside, politically, economically, socially
and environmentally. It took the Labour Party, it would seem, until January to
discover that farmers produce food. In Labour's 13 inglorious years, food
security has steadily fallen and self-sufficiency is still falling at one per
cent per year - we now only produce 60 per cent of our food. This means that we
could be spending more than £20billion on imported food that we could, and
should, be growing here - at a time when the country is almost broke. Over the
past 20 years the number of farmers and farm workers has fallen in England from
477,000 to 353,000.

Then there is the huge scandal of milk. Milk obviously comes from grass and
grass is Britain's most certain crop. In 1985 there were 28,000 dairy farmers in
England and Wales. In November last year there were only 11,000 and we are still
losing nine dairy farms a week. At the same time, we are now importing
1.5million litres of milk a day. It's an absolute disgrace, with the
supermarkets dictating the price of milk. Tony Blair once boasted that he would
"break the armlock of the supermarkets". He never did, of course. To try to
break the "arm lock" many dairy farmers have intensified - sorry - have become
more "efficient". As a result, most dairy farms have become wildlife deserts.

The Tories can take no pleasure from all this, because they were the ones who
broke up the Milk Marketing Board and handed the buying power to the
supermarkets. To add to their record of incompetence, they also caused the
closure of thousands of small abattoirs, the ones that David Cameron now claims
he wants to bring back.

I will be standing for a living, working countryside, a countryside free of red
tape, Brussels and political correctness. I have two massive hopes - to save my
deposit and to bang the drum for ordinary country people.

Robin Page's book Revolting Peasant is available from Telegraph books for £12.50
plus £1.50 postage and packing. Call 0844 8711514 or go to
books.telegraph.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              302 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HOW UKIP PLANS TO STOP A CAMERON REGIME SURRENDERING TO BRUSSELS

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 397 words


FOLLOWING a big response to my piece last week about the rise of "the others" in
British politics I can report more interesting goingson inside the UKIP high
command.

UKIP leader Lord Pearson has developed a two-pronged strategy for promoting the
influence of anti-EU voters in a first-past-the-post electoral system that is
unfair to his party.

The first prong is to hope for a hung parliament in which a temporary Lib-Lab
pact delivers a new, more proportional electoral system. That would give UKIP
the chance of gaining scores of MPs next time round. But currently the bookies
believe the Conservatives will win an outright majority. So what is to be done
to ensure that another five years of surrender to Brussels does not take place
in the event of a Cameron government?

Pearson has come up with an innovative way of ensuring anti-EU representation
and influence is maximised. He is offering anti-EU MPs from the Conservatives
and, in at least one case, Labour, active backing.

UKIP will not only stand aside if the sitting Eurosceptic wishes but will
actively campaign for him. It is thought that up to a dozen Tories with small
majorities are prepared to pay Pearson's price for UKIP support - an undertaking
to campaign and vote against the EU and lobby for an "in or out" referendum
throughout the next parliament, even if it lands them in trouble with party
whips.

That would mean anti-Brussels MPs holding massive sway over a Cameron
administration elected with a small majority. A dozen backbenchers prepared to
defy the whip would be able to bring Cameron down if he agreed to further
transfers of sovereignty.

"It would be madness for UKIP to field candidates against good men such as
Douglas Carswell or Philip Davies who believe we are better off out of the EU
and thus stop them getting back into the House of Commons, so we won't," Lord
Pearson tells me.

The idea of one party standing aside and backing another in the interests of
furthering a great common cause is very rare in British politics. UKIP
candidates told to stand down as part of this agreement are bound to feel
disappointed but to do so would be to put the national interest above local
excitements and guarantee that a resolute cadre of anti-Brussels MPs are
returned to Parliament.

Pearson is marshalling his outnumbered forces with the guile of Henry V at
Agincourt. All Eurosceptics should wish him well.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              303 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HOW UKIP PLANS TO STOP A CAMERON REGIME SURRENDERING TO BRUSSELS

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 397  words


FOLLOWING a big response to my piece last week about the rise of "the others" in
British politics I can report more interesting goings on inside the UKIP high
command.

UKIP leader Lord Pearson has developed a two-pronged strategy for promoting the
influence of anti-EU voters in a first-past-the-post electoral system that is
unfair to his party.

The first prong is to hope for a hung parliament in which a temporary Lib-Lab
pact delivers a new, more proportional electoral system.

That would give UKIP the chance of gaining scores of MPs next time round. But
currently the bookies believe the Conservatives will win an outright majority.
So what is to be done to ensure that another five years of surrender to Brussels
does not take place in the event of a Cameron government?

Pearson has come up with an innovative way of ensuring anti-EU representation
and influence is maximised. He is offering anti-EU MPs from the Conservatives
and, in at least one case, Labour, active backing.

UKIP will not only stand aside if the sitting Eurosceptic wishes but will
actively campaign for him. It is thought that up to a dozen Tories with small
majorities are prepared to pay Pearson's price for UKIP support - an undertaking
to campaign and vote against the EU and lobby for an "in or out" referendum
throughout the next parliament, even if it lands them in trouble with party
whips.

That would mean anti-Brussels MPs holding massive sway over a Cameron
administration elected with a small majority. A dozen backbenchers prepared to
defy the whip would be able to bring Cameron down if he agreed to further
transfers of sovereignty.

"It would be madness for UKIP to field candidates against good men such as
Douglas Carswell or Philip Davies who believe we are better off out of the EU
and thus stop them getting back into the House of Commons, so we won't, " Lord
Pearson tells me.

The idea of one party standing aside and backing another in the interests of
furthering a great common cause is very rare in British politics. UKIP
candidates told to stand down as part of this agreement are bound to feel
disappointed but to do so would be to put the national interest above local
excitements and guarantee that a resolute cadre of antiBrussels MPs are returned
to Parliament.

Pearson is marshalling his outnumbered forces with the guile of Henry V at
Agincourt.

All Eurosceptics should wish him well.

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              304 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Vote for someone you can trust. Yourself;
Fed up with traditional politics, two of my friends are standing as
independents. I suggest we all do the same

BYLINE: Giles Coren

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1174 words


I'm trying not to get overexcited about the general election because I'm going
to be on honeymoon in Greece on May 6, so I'm not going to be able to watch it
on television. And if I'm not going to be able to watch it, there's no point
voting in it. That would be like putting a bet on the Grand National when you
knew you were going to be out for lunch at 3.15 and nowhere near a telly. You go
to the funny little building and queue to fill in the little paper slip to give
yourself an interest in the big TV event of the year. But if you're not going to
be watching, feh.

And even if I did want to vote in this thing that is going to happen to you but
not to me, I couldn't, because I won't be here. I could use a postal vote, but
as I never even get around to sending postcards it's unlikely I'll manage to
send in a voting form from Greece. Best-case scenario: some time in July my
uncle receives a grey slip containing my cop-out tick next to the Lib Dems, and
the polling station gets a card from me featuring an azure sea and a suntanned
bird in a bikini.

In fact, are we even sure that Greece still has a postal service? It's pretty
bad out there. I've heard they don't even have shoes.

I dare say one can probably post one's vote early, before one goes away. But
then I would be voting without having read all the multicoloured flyers that
will be dropping through my door right up to E-day (easily confused on the
doormat with curry house and pizza flyers: "We'll take no lessons from the
Opposition when it comes to FIERY JALEPEÑO PEPPERS AND TWENTY-EIGHT KINDS OF
HAM!") And even if I did manage to choose a candidate, have you any idea how
complicated it is to register for a postal vote? Neither have I. But I bet it's
a nightmare. It takes six weeks, eight e-mails and quite high-level calculus to
arrange a green waste collection in Camden, so how much more tricky must it be
to change the ideological direction of a national government from a beach in
Crete? We'll never know. Because I have a wedding to arrange and thus a to-do
list as high as the ArcelorMittal Orbit and twice as bonkers. I'm still short an
order of service, a cellist, any sort of presentable tie and a comedy sex name
for the special wedding cocktail. You think I'm going to spend 17 of the
remaining 21 days till my wedding planning how to chip one pebble off Frank
Dobson's mountainous majority in Holborn &St Pancras? (That's assuming he's
standing again, which I'm not sure he is. In fact, I'm not a hundred per cent
certain he's still alive.) Now, just because I do not have time to take the
election very seriously, it doesn't mean other people don't. Only last Monday I
received e-mails from two (count them, two) friends, informing me of their
intention not only to stand for election, but to stand as candidates for new
parties of their own creation. One was Tamsin Omond, the twentysomething climate
change campaigner and modern suffragette, most famous for scaling the House of
Commons to protest against the third runway at Heathrow. She's not a friend
friend. We've only had tea together, but it was a very nice tea, and we've
corresponded a bit, and she had a long relationship with the sister of my first
girlfriend which, in 2010, makes us damn near family.

The other was Stuart Wheeler, the seventysomething millionaire and political
mischief-maker who sold his spread-betting company, IG Index, for a fortune,
gave £5 million to the Tories in 2001 without asking for anything in return and
then switched allegiance to UKIP. Now, Stuart really is a friend.

He's best pals with my fiancée's parents, I've been a guest in his castle
(hurrah for IG Index) many times, and he feels even more like family than
Tamsin. Stuart's e-mail came first, at 7.34am on Monday, because older men are
up and about at that sort of time and raring to nail the day.

Tamsin's surfaced a couple of hours after lunch. Stuart's party will be called
The Trust Party and he will stand in Bexhill &Battle; Tamsin's will be called
The Commons Party, and she will stand in Hampstead &Kilburn.

Both are campaigning on the basis that they can be trusted with public funds, in
Tamsin's case because she is ragingly anti-materialist and simply doesn't care
about money (she pledges to plough a third of her MP's salary back into the
community), and Stuart because he has so much already.

That dichotomy is properly old skool. It's like choosing between Harold
Macmillan and Keir Hardie: whatever the politics, you can be sure they are not
in it for the free duck islands (as it happens, Stuart already has an island in
his garden that you could raise bears on, let alone ducks).

And the vast gap between their respective politics is old skool too. They occupy
the extreme opposite poles of modern ideology. Tamsin is driven by ecological
zeal and a yearning for "strong communities linked locally, nationally and
globally"; Stuart reassures us that "I shall, as you would expect, be highly
Eurosceptic and global-warming sceptic."

Both are highly and privately educated: Tamsin was at Westminster, Stuart at
Eton. Both are engaging and compelling personalities, entirely unselfconscious
and untroubled by fears of what others may think. And in the context of modern
appeasement politics, both look equally nuts: Tamsin because she is convinced
the world can be saved from climate disaster by human action; Stuart because he
is convinced it doesn't need to be. It's the big either/or. It's huge. And I
love it. It's like the old left-right horseshoe diagram where the two extreme
points almost meet at the top.

I briefly wondered if any more of my friends would start parties. I wondered if
they all would. And then I started to think they all should. For if Tamsin and
Stuart are motivated mainly by the certainty that they themselves can be
trusted, and they are right, and in this corrupted political landscape we all
crave the sort of trust in our representatives that one can really only ever
have in oneself, then, really, the only party one can safely vote for is one's
own.

So perhaps we should all start one. There must be 35 million eligible voters in
this country, maybe 40 (to get an exact figure I would need to do some research,
and for that I'd need a researcher, but then I would have to shag my researcher
and set her up in a flat paid for by bogus expenses claims, and then I wouldn't
be able to vote for myself and the whole system would collapse), so what we need
is 40 million parties, each trusted by one person.

The only problem I can see with that is that there may not be 40 million
different possible party-naming words with the talismanic power of Trust,
Commons and Respect (I'm half-tempted to call mine the Thieving Bastard Party so
that at least there is no comic irony when I am caught with my hand in the
till). But I do think it could work: 40 million parties, 40 million votes, 40
million seats in Parliament.

The only thing it still wouldn't solve is how on earth I am to vote for myself
from Greece.

I'm tempted to call mine the Thieving Bastard Party

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tamsin Omond can be trusted with money: she just doesn't care about it

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              305 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 3, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I want British chocolate for British children;
Selling Cadbury's killed the goose that laid the Mini Eggs. It is bad for jobs,
for the planet and for the soul

BYLINE: Janice Turner

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 1093 words


Bad chocolate is a sure way of telling that you're far from home. America, all
of Asia, Eastern Europe, seems to believe candle wax containing 20 per cent
cocoa solids will suffice. My younger son, abroad for Easter these past four
years, feels bitterly deprived: a foil-wrapped kangaroo in Sydney doesn't cut
it. He craves the full British Easter-egg hyperglycaemic rush.

But in the supermarket I ponder the moulded plastic boxes miserably. Over the
decades chocolate has acquired a total flavour monopoly over all our national
festivities - well, toffee still clings on to Bonfire Night - perhaps because,
shot through with mood-lifting phenylethylamine, it is a legal party drug. Yet I
can find chocolate only a total downer now that Cadbury has been sold.

I can't bear to buy Mini Eggs that will soon be made in Poland - like Smarties,
which have never tasted right since - so that Kraft can dispense with 400
workers in Keynsham. I don't see why I should subsidise, for my children's
pleasure, the US food mammoth's wildly overleveraged buy-out of a British icon,
so that faraway shareholders can enjoy a few bucks on their dividend. I can't
swallow Dairy Milk containing its full glass-and-a-half of duplicity that no
jobs would go.

And I wonder how Keynsham's loyal chocolatiers, who never went on strike, always
cranked out a handsome profit with their Crunchies and Curly Wurlys for four
generations, feel about the announcement of the Kraft chief executive Irene
Rosenfeld's $26.3 million salary for 2009: a 41 per cent rise, for taking over
Cadbury and wiping out their jobs.

She looks a scary-mary, Irene, with her recessed eyes and high tensile frame
that puts a question mark over her remark in the corporate biography that her
favourite Kraft product - well, it must be so hard to choose between plastic
cheese, sugar-soaked sodas and, er, Lunchables - is Orio cookies. Maybe she
thought that this endearing weakness would make her seem more Willy Wonka, less
Cruella de Vil, with her wacky method of relaxing: Rollerblading.

The story of Cadbury, a company set up by 19th-century philanthropists and run
on humane principles, should not have ended like this, sold to the glory of a
corporate raider. The will to save it, the public desire to keep it British, was
so strong and visceral that you wondered why the Government didn't do something
that would be so universally popular in an election year. Fine, it isn't a key
"strategic industry" - it makes Wispas not cruise missiles - but then neither
was Danone, but the French Government intervened to fend off a marauding Kraft,
because losing such a loved, evocative brand would dent the national soul.

How idiotic and after the fact Lord Mandelson looked when he said sternly that
now Kraft had reneged on its pledge to save Keynsham it would be subject to
stern scrutiny. What a dupe his Shadow, Ken Clarke, sounded, rattling off the
City-pleasing line that Kraft just hadn't taken into account how hard it would
be to save the plant. As if Irene and her Harvard Business School team, toiling
through the night, could have overlooked such a detail. And how impotent our
democracy appeared when a parliamentary committee summoned Ms Rosenfeld to
discuss her broken promise and she didn't even deign to attend.

The refrain of the past decade has been suck up globalisation, forget national
concerns, entrust our economic future, our whole lives, to huge incomprehensible
financial forces. Well, that worked out well! Times colleagues of a more
conservative bent have long teased me that I should join UKIP because I feel
uneasy that my electricity is not supplied by a UK-owned company, believe that
we should set about training our disdained, alienated, long-term unemployed -
yes, British jobs for British workers - rather than lazily filling vacancies
with bright foreign graduates, because that's what makes CBI members maximum
cash.

And I know I am not alone. Last week, interviewing Jamie Oliver, I asked him
about his crockery line and he said that he had worked with Royal Worcester
"because it was 100 per cent British" until it went down and was bought by
Churchill, which also manufactures in England.

The provenance of the cups and plates bearing Oliver's name meant something to
him. His uncomplicated, incidental patriotism mirrors that of most working
people. And in many ways - using his own wealth to campaign for better public
nutrition, setting up programmes to find wayward young people jobs in restaurant
kitchens - Jamie Oliver is a descendant of the Rowntrees, Terrys and Cadburys
who, in making money, didn't forget who did all the work.

On Newsnight this week, its excellent economics editor Paul Mason travelled
across the heartland of Britain surveying the overgrown canals and shut-down
kilns thrown aside because manufacturing wasn't worth the muck and bother, not
when financial services would save us. In his report I was struck by the pottery
designer Emma Bridgewater, who bought the old Wedgwood factory in
Stoke-on-Trent, drawing on age-old local skills. It would be easier for her,
would ensure a bigger margin, to outsource her pretty spotted plates and bowls
to an anonymous Chinese factory. Her fellow entrepreneurs were frightened of
having actual employees, she said, but she liked it. The camera panned around a
bunch of women, many related, chatting as they painted and glazed while Ms
Bridgewater said that she believed that making things made people feel good.

Indeed it does. Any fool who has ever baked a loaf or grown a tomato could tell
you so. It is not simply an economic necessity that Britain rebuilds a
manufacturing base but also a question of national morale. And it would be nice
to spend my hard-earned cash on a company that actually pays taxes into the
British exchequer. We need to see that we are capable, industrious people
reflected in the things we own. We need sometimes to honour a connection between
what we wear or eat and the people who made or grew them.

On economic nationalism, the Right has lately said "let the market decide", the
Left has mocked campaigns to buy British as peevish xenophobia. (And yet France
sees nothing wrong in raving about its pride in the produce of its "terre".) But
the Green movement has recognised the deep-rooted and long-ignored yearning that
buying locally made goods and produce - and Cadbury's chocolate was made by the
women of Keynsham - is better for the planet and for the soul.

Irene wants to seem more Willy Wonka, less Cruella de Vil

Jamie Oliver is a descendant of the Terrys and Cadburys

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              306 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 2, 2010 Friday

Diary: The Ukip man seems a nasty piece of work. The Tory rather gullible. Good
to meet new people

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 656 words


?So what can we tell you about Paul Wiffen? Well, he was a big man. London
chairman of Ukip, a parliamentary candidate. Stood for the party in Scotland in
last year's European elections. A man of many parts. According to his biog, he
toured the world as a keyboard player with Stevie Wonder and Jean-Michel Jarre.
He has shot films in Mexico, Belize and Switzerland. But late at night he felt
moved to vent his anger on asylum to communitycare.co.uk. The rest was all
downhill. "You left-wing scum are all the same," he posted. "Wanting to hand our
birthright to Romanian gypsies who beat their wives and children into begging
and stealing money they can gamble with, Muslim nutters who want to kill us and
put us all under medieval Sharia law, the same Africans who sold their
Afro-Caribbean brothers into a slavery that Britain was the first to abolish
(but you still want to apologise for!). Worry about where we are going to live
and grow food, you wanker, not the Ukip policy that might just save your
worthless skin!." The end came quickly. We rang Ukip, and though he seemed quite
defiant when we rang him, they last night suspended him from any party position
with a view to disciplinary proceedings. He was a character. But he hardly
seemed very nice.

?Steve Tierney is different. He's a businessman, a Tory county councillor in
Cambridgeshire and he doesn't like the Guardian very much - "a horrible,
snivelly, limp-wristed, weak little rag". But we'll let that pass. The problem
is that some might think him slightly dim. For he was taken in by the April
Fool's confection in the Guardian yesterday - the one that suggested a more
openly macho Gordon might biff David Cameron, push Andrew Marr and manhandle
Jeremy Paxman for electoral advantage. But not just Steve was taken in. Quite a
few were taken in. He was outraged. "Gordon Brown isn't 'hard'," he blogged
righteously. "He isn't a 'bruiser' and he isn't a 'great clunking fist'. He's
not going to walk up to anybody and call them outside for a playground
push'n'shove. And if he did, he'd quickly find himself out of breath, sweaty and
chagrined." When he realised how gullible he'd been, he probably felt the same.

?With Rupert Murdoch having set his face and his mighty organisation against
Gordon Brown and all of Labour's works, heartening isn't it to see the Times's
acclaimed sportswriter Matthew Syed on the hastily compiled shortlist of six to
replace the late Ashok Kumar in Middlesbrough South and East Cleveland? Result
on Saturday. He had better win.

?And so what if Lord Tebbit suffered the indignity of receiving "words of
advice" from a Suffolk policeman last weekend following his little local
difficulty during Chinese New Year celebrations in Bury St Edmunds? If you take
the fire from his belly, what would you have left? But we worry that within a
few days of resolving one issue, he was telling our man about another potential
flashpoint. "I'm sure someone referred to me the other day as 'a silly old
blogger'," said Tebbit, 78, who does indeed have a new home on the web. "If my
hearing was still perfect I might well have said something, but since it's not
quite what it was, I let it pass - and probably avoided getting myself into a
whole lot of trouble." That's right, Norman. Bird's not worth it. Turn the other
cheek. Walk away.

?Finally, the warm words are all very well but what price transparency? "When I
met David Cameron (pictured) recently in a restaurant, I introduced myself to
him, and he denied being the Tory leader," complains author and one-time Tory
Dominic Shelmerdine. "I was most unamused that this wannabe prime minister
should behave in this manner." But he shouldn't have been surprised: for once,
while serving time as a public relations executive at Carlton Television, the
Tory leader apparently dodged a hostile telephone call by pretending to be the
cleaner. We all grow up, but old habits die hard.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              307 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Blair is a party pooper

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 397 words


£50 LETTER

THE Labour Party have shown they do not have a clue how the public feels by
inviting Tony Blair to campaign for them.

This orange-faced multimillionaire is hated by most of the country. And he has
nothing in common with the average working person slogging away on the minimum
wage.

MARK EARNSHAW Leeds

TONY BLAIR is in cloud cuckoo land if he thinks voters forgive so easily. We are
unlikely to forget the invisible weapons of mass destruction and the deaths and
casualties of our brave heroes in the Bush/Blair Iraq War.

MIKE PIERREPONT Ilkeston, Derbys

TONY BLAIR pontificated to the Labour faithful on how the British people should
"re-elect" Gordon Brown - but the thing is Brown was never elected in the first
place.

Then Gordon Brown was waffling on about trusting Labour on the subject of
immigration.

British jobs for British workers? Don't make me laugh, Mr Brown.

They rightly worry about votes flooding to the BNP and UKIP and it is all
Labour's fault.

JIM BURNS Altrincham, Cheshire

GORDON BROWN has called on the very Tony Blair who helped bring this country to
its knees to convince the hard-working people left that they can make a better
Britain. They still believe that Benefit Britain can survive. I would invite him
to a local pub to discuss the issues, but they have ruined the pubs, too.

At least David Cameron can give time to the ordinary working man and enjoy a
pint of cider.

LEE FIZER Birmingham

WHY has Gordon Brown got Tony Blair to hold his hand? Why does Gordon Brown keep
telling the Tories they are always changing their minds?

There is nobody worse than Brown for that. When the Tories come up with
something good, Labour pinch the idea.

PETE COOK Manchester

I WAS disgusted to see that Parliament's new expenses watchdog, which is led by
Sir Ian Kennedy, has ruled in favour of MPs still employing one family member.

This is in spite of the Kelly report, massive public opinion and even the
Commons Speaker stating there should be a ban on spouses working for MPs.

ALAN McTIGUE Hungerford, Berks

I DON'T think French president Nicolas Sarkozy, pictured, will have fooled
anyone about his diminutive height when he gave his address to students at
Columbia University.

Surely, emerging from the pocket of one of his bodyguards gave the game away
about his tiny frame.

Bless him.

ANDY PEMBERTON Enfield, Middx

Have your say live on Sun Talk 020 33 64 7000 10am -1pm

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              308 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              April 2, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Marxist Cameron;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 126 words


Sir, The "new Labour" reinvention was based primarily on the admission that the
old belief - socialism - was wrong and the party accepted that the Tories were
correct all along ("Dave's party needs the Tony factor", letter, Apr 1).

Second, the 1997 landslide was not totally down to an increase in the Labour
vote. Even at its highest point, Labour only had the support of 44 per cent of
the total vote. The landslide was helped by tens of thousands of Tory voters
switching to UKIP as a protest vote over Europe.

For David Cameron to suddenly become a convert to Marxism is somewhat unlikely.
And, sadly, we have no party for disgruntled Labour voters to switch to
(although a large minority are, unfortunately, switching to the BNP).

dean temple Witney, Oxon

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              309 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Belgian MPs vote to jail women in burkhas

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 654 words


THE burkha is set to be banned in Belgium in a bold move which would see Muslim
women who flout the law jailed.

A parliamentary committee in Brussels voted unanimously yesterday in favour of
legislation which will crack down on Islamic extremists.

A bill will now be put to a full parliamentary vote on April 22.

If passed Belgium, home to around 650,000 Muslims, would be the first European
country to impose a ban. But others may follow suit.

The new proposals mean that burkhas, niqabs and other full-face veils will be
outlawed from the streets, parks, schools and all public buildings.

France has considered a similar move but fears that a burkha ban could violate
European human rights laws.

Announcing the Belgian vote, six parliamentarians from the Frenchspeaking MR
liberal party said the principle of "recognise to know" trumped other
considerations on the issue.

Daniel Bacquelaine, who proposed the bill, said: "We cannot allow someone to
claim the right to look at others without being seen.

"It is necessary that the law forbids the wearing of clothes that totally mask
and enclose an individual."

The proposed new law does not specifically mention burkhas but politician Denis
Ducarme yesterday said the bill left no doubt the new rules were targeting
Muslim extremists.

He said: "This sends a very strong signal to radical Islamists. For reasons of
public safety and the dignity of women, we should feel great pride in daring to
take this step while there are similar debates in France, Switzerland and
Italy."

The burkha is a full-body covering with a mesh screen over the face, while the
niqab is a full veil with slits for the eyes.

Belgium's 650,000 Muslims make up six per cent of the population and are mainly
Moroccans and Turks. They account for the country's largest immigrant
population, although the majority do not wear the full veil.

Muslim ghettos exist in Brussels and other major cities with Muslims accounting
for up to a quarter of the capital's one million residents.

Belgian Flemish Nationalist leader Filip Dewinter said: "In those neighbourhoods
it's not our government that's in power but the Muslim authorities - the
mosques, the imams - who are in charge."

A recent poll found six in 10 Belgians believed Muslims were failing to
integrate into mainstream society and wanted tougher laws to combat Islamic
extremism.

Last night there were calls in the UK to follow Belgium's lead.

UKIP leader Lord Pearson said: "We should have a similar ban here. We are
pleased that Belgium and France are moving towards UKIP policy to ban the burkha
in selected public places."

Dictate

Conservative MP Philip Hollobone has called for a ban.

He said: "I have no doubt that the majority of British people would like to see
the burkha banned in public places. I hope that this will be seriously
considered in the next parliament."

But Labour said they would oppose any ban. A Government spokeswoman said: "This
is a matter of personal choice, not one for Government to dictate what people
should or should not wear. In the UK there is no law stating what people can and
cannot wear. It is a matter of personal choice whether women want to wear the
veil or burkha."

UK muslims were also opposed. "The Muslim Council of Britain remains concerned
at the growth of all forms of Islamophobia in Europe," the organisation said.

Brussels has become a hotbed of Islamic extremism in the wake of the 9/11 terror
attacks in the US. An 18-man Al Qaeda cell was convicted of plotting terrorist
offences in September 2003. And two months after the March 2004 Madrid train
bombings, 15 suspects were arrested in Belgium.

In November 2005, a Belgian Muslim convert launched a suicide bomb attack in
Iraq.

Q Should the burkha be banned in Britain?

YES: 0901 030 8344 NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHURYEs to 80088 No text DXTHURNo to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              310 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

PICKS OF THE DAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 367 words


Real Life: Lost Abroad - The Parents' Story, 9pm, C4 A grim account of parents
trapped in a Kafkaesque nightmare after their children die in mysterious
circumstances abroad. Amid the grief they are left to search for clues in a
foreign country, not knowing the language or customs and with unfamiliar police
practices and legal systems to deal with. Erica Duggan (right) heard her
terrified son crying down the phone from Germany and hours later was told he had
been run over on an autobahn, his death recorded as suicide. We also hear from
Bill Hawker, whose daughter Lindsay was found dead in a sand-filled bathtub at
the Tokyo apartment of a man to who she had been giving English lessons.

Film: Sunset Boulevard, 1.20pm, C4 HHHH Oscar-winning satire on Tinseltown from
master director Billy Wilder. It's the stark story of former silent movie star
Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson), a half-mad recluse who dreams of a big-screen
comeback. Fate introduces her to small-time writer Joe Gillis (William Holden,
left with Swanson), who moves into her gothic mansion to work on a film script
she's penned. When she discovers that Joe is seeing an aspiring young
screenwriter, there are grave consequences.

Soap: EastEnders, 7.30pm, BBC1 Albert Square residents had better dig out their
bullet-proof jackets. Kylie tells Billie she's thrown the gun away but as he and
the Brannings celebrate Lauren's birthday at the club, the happy scene is
shattered when Kylie fires a weapon, leaving Jack (Scott Maslen, above right
with Devon Anderson as Billie) lying in a pool of blood. Elsewhere, Ryan charms
Roxy and Ben confesses his fears to Shirley.

Quiz: Have I Got News For You, 9.30pm, BBC1 The start of series 39 (yes, it
really is series 39) with plenty more vicious wit and surreal satire from team
captains Ian Hislop and Paul Merton (both right) and their ever-changing
sidekicks. Hosting the first episode in this new run, which sees us through to
the general election, is funnyman and actor Lee Mack. Guest panellists are
former UKIP leader Nigel Farage and Scottish comic Kevin Bridges. This
much-loved weekly show has moved from its Friday night slot, a fond farewell to
that end-of-the-week belly laugh.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              311 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Belgium ready to clamp down on the burkha

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 509 words


THE burkha is set to be banned in Belgium in a bold move who flout the law
jailed.

A parliamentary committee in Brussels voted unanimously yesterday in favour of
legislation which will crack down on Islamic extremists.

A bill will now be put to a full parliamentary vote on April 22.

If passed Belgium, home to around 650,000 Muslims, would be the first European
country to impose a ban. But others may follow suit.

The new proposals mean that burkhas, niqabs and other full-face veils will be
outlawed from the streets, parks, schools and all public buildings.

France has considered a similar move but fears that a ban could violate European
human rights laws.

Announcing the Belgian vote, six parliamentarians from the French-speaking MR
liberal party said the principle of "recognise to know" trumped other
considerations.

"We cannot allow someone to claim the right to look at others without being
seen," said Daniel Bacquelaine, who proposed the bill.

"It is necessary that the law forbids the wearing of clothes that totally mask
and enclose an individual."

The text of the proposed new law does not specifically mention burkhas but
politician Denis Ducarme said the bill left no doubt the new rules were
targeting Muslim extremists.

He said: "This sends a very strong signal to radical Islamists. For reasons of
public safety and the dignity of women, we should feel great pride in daring to
take this step while there are similar debates in France, Switzerland and
Italy." The burkha is a full-body covering with a mesh screen over the face,
while the niqab is a full veil with slits for the eyes.

Muslims account for Belgium's largest immigrant population although the majority
do not wear the full veil.

Last night there were calls for the UK to follow Belgium's lead.

UKIP leader Lord Pearson said: "We should have a similar ban here. We are
pleased that Belgium and France are moving towards UKIP policy to ban the burkha
in selected public places."

Conservative MP Philip Hollobone has called for a ban. He said: "I hope that
this will be seriously considered in the next parliament."

But Labour said they would oppose any ban. A Government spokeswoman said: "This
is a matter of personal choice, not one for Government to dictate what people
should or should not wear."

UK Muslims were also opposed. "The Muslim Council of Britain remains concerned
at the growth of all forms of Islamophobia in Europe," the organisation said.

Brussels has become a hotbed of Islamic extremism in the wake of the 9/11 terror
attacks in the US.

An 18-man Al Qaeda cell was convicted of plotting terrorist offences in
September 2003. And two months after the March 2004 Madrid train bombings, 15
suspects were arrested in Belgium.

In November 2005, a Belgian Muslim convert launched a suicide bomb attack in
Iraq.

VIRGINIA BLACKBURN IS AWAY

Q Should the burkha be banned in Britain?

YES: 0901 030 8344 NO: 0901 030 8345

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088 No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Muslim women face a veil ban

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              312 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Belgian MPs vote to jail women in burkhas

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 616  words


THE burkha is set to be banned in Belgium in a bold move which would see Muslim
women who flout the law jailed.

A parliamentary committee in Brussels voted unanimously yesterday in favour of
legislation which will crack down on Islamic extremists.

A bill will now be put to a full parliamentary vote on April 22.

If passed Belgium, home to around 650,000 Muslims, would be the first European
country to impose a ban. But others may follow suit.

The new proposals mean that burkhas, niqabs and other full-face veils will be
outlawed from the streets, parks, schools and all public buildings.

France has considered a similar move but fears that a burkha ban could violate
European human rights laws.

Announcing the Belgian vote, six parliamentarians from the French-speaking MR
liberal party said the principle of "recognise to know" trumped other
considerations on the issue.

"We cannot allow someone to claim the right to look at others without being
seen, " said Daniel Bacquelaine, who proposed the bill.

"It is necessary that the law forbids the wearing of clothes that totally mask
and enclose an individual."

The text of the proposed new law does not specifically mention burkhas but
politician Denis Ducarme yesterday said the bill left no doubt the new rules
were targeting Muslim extremists.

He said: "This sends a very strong signal to radical Islamists. For reasons of
public safety and the dignity of women, we should feel great pride in daring to
take this step while there are similar debates in France, Switzerland and
Italy."

The burkha is a full-body covering with a mesh screen over the face, while the
niqab is a full veil with slits for the eyes.

Belgium's 650,000 Muslims make up six per cent of the population and are mainly
Moroccans and Turks. They account for the country's largest immigrant population
although the majority do not wear the full veil.

Muslim ghettos exist in Brussels and other major cities with Muslims accounting
for up to a quarter of the capital's one million residents.

Belgian Flemish Nationalist leader Filip Dewinter said: "In those neighbourhoods
it's not our government that's in power but the Muslim authorities - the
mosques, the imams - who are in charge."

A recent poll found six in 10 Belgians believed Muslims were failing to
integrate into mainstream society and wanted tougher laws to combat Islamic
extremism.

Last night there were calls in the UK to follow Belgium's lead.

UKIP leader Lord Pearson said:

"We should have a similar ban here. We are pleased that Belgium and France are
moving towards UKIP policy to ban the burkha in selected public places."

Conservative MP Philip Hollobone has called for a ban.

He said: "I have no doubt that the majority of British people would like to see
the burkha banned in public places.

"I hope that this will be seriously considered in the next parliament." But
Labour said they would oppose any ban.

A Government spokeswoman said: "This is a matter of personal choice, not one for
Government to dictate what people should or should not wear. In the UK there is
no law stating what people can and cannot wear and it is a matter of personal
choice whether women want to wear the veil or burkha."

UK muslims were also opposed.

"The Muslim Council of Britain remains concerned at the growth of all forms of
Islamophobia in Europe, " the organisation said.

Brussels has become a hotbed of Islamic extremism in the wake of the 9/11 terror
attacks in the US. An 18-man Al Qaeda cell was convicted of plotting terrorist
offences in September 2003. And two months after the March 2004 Madrid train
bombings, 15 suspects were arrested in Belgium.

In November 2005, a Belgian Muslim convert launched a suicide bomb attack in
Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Muslim women face a veil ban

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              313 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Belgium ready to clamp down on the burkha

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 14

LENGTH: 469  words


THE burkha is set to be banned in Belgium in a bold move which would see Muslim
women who flout the law jailed.

A parliamentary committee in Brussels voted unanimously yesterday in favour of
legislation which will crack down on Islamic extremists.

A bill will now be put to a full parliamentary vote on April 22.

If passed Belgium, home to around 650,000 Muslims, would be the first European
country to impose a ban.

But others may follow suit.

The new proposals mean that burkhas, niqabs and other full-face veils will be
outlawed from the streets, parks, schools and all public buildings.

France has considered a similar move but fears that a ban could violate European
human rights laws.

Announcing the Belgian vote, six parliamentarians from the French-speaking MR
liberal party said the principle of "recognise to know" trumped other
considerations.

"We cannot allow someone to claim the right to look at others without being
seen, " said Daniel Bacquelaine, who proposed the bill.

"It is necessary that the law forbids the wearing of clothes that totally mask
and enclose an individual."

The text of the proposed new law does not specifically mention burkhas but
politician Denis Ducarme said the bill left no doubt the new rules were
targeting Muslim extremists.

He said: "This sends a very strong signal to radical Islamists. For reasons of
public safety and the dignity of women, we should feel great pride in daring to
take this step while there are similar debates in France, Switzerland and
Italy." The burkha is a full-body covering with a mesh screen over the face,
while the niqab is a full veil with slits for the eyes.

Muslims account for Belgium's largest immigrant population although the majority
do not wear the full veil.

Last night there were calls for the UK to follow Belgium's lead.

UKIP leader Lord Pearson said: "We should have a similar ban here. We are
pleased that Belgium and France are moving towards UKIP policy to ban the burkha
in selected public places."

Conservative MP Philip Hollobone has called for a ban.

He said: "I hope that this will be seriously considered in the next parliament."

But Labour said they would oppose any ban. A Government spokeswoman said: "This
is a matter of personal choice, not one for Government to dictate what people
should or should not wear."

UK Muslims were also opposed. "The Muslim Council of Britain remains concerned
at the growth of all forms of Islamophobia in Europe, " the organisation said.

Brussels has become a hotbed of Islamic extremism in the wake of the 9/11 terror
attacks in the US.

An 18-man Al Qaeda cell was convicted of plotting terrorist offences in
September 2003. And two months after the March 2004 Madrid train bombings, 15
suspects were arrested in Belgium.

In November 2005, a Belgian Muslim convert launched a suicide bomb attack in
Iraq.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Muslim women face a veil ban

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              314 of 322 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

PICKS OF THE DAY;
TV EXPRESS

SECTION: TV; 71

LENGTH: 365  words


Real Life: Lost Abroad - The Parents' Story, 9pm, C4

A grim account of parents trapped in a Kafkaesque nightmare after their children
die in mysterious circumstances abroad. Amid the grief they are left to search
for clues in a foreign country, not knowing the language or customs and with
unfamiliar police practices and legal systems to deal with. Erica Duggan (right)
heard her terrified son crying down the phone from Germany and hours later was
told he had been run over on an autobahn, his death recorded as suicide. We also
hear from Bill Hawker, whose daughter Lindsay was found dead in a sand-filled
bathtub at the Tokyo apartment of a man to who she had been giving English
lessons.

Film: Sunset Boulevard, 1.20pm, C4

Oscar-winning satire on Tinseltown from master director Billy Wilder. It's the
stark story of former silent movie star Norma Desmond (Gloria Swanson), a
half-mad recluse who dreams of a big-screen comeback.

Fate introduces her to small-time writer Joe Gillis (William Holden, left with
Swanson), who moves into her gothic mansion to work on a film script she's
penned.

When she discovers that Joe is seeing an aspiring young screenwriter, there are
grave consequences.

Soap: EastEnders, 7.30pm, BBC1

Albert Square residents had better dig out their bullet-proof jackets. Kylie
tells Billie she's thrown the gun away but as he and the Brannings celebrate
Lauren's birthday at the club, the happy scene is shattered when Kylie fires a
weapon, leaving Jack (Scott Maslen, above right with Devon Anderson as Billie)
lying in a pool of blood. Elsewhere, Ryan charms Roxy and Ben confesses his
fears to Shirley.

Quiz: Have I Got News For You, 9.30pm, BBC1

The start of series 39 (yes, it really is series 39) with plenty more vicious
wit and surreal satire from team captains Ian Hislop and Paul Merton (both
right) and their ever-changing sidekicks. Hosting the first episode in this new
run, which sees us through to the general election, is funnyman and actor Lee
Mack. Guest panellists are former UKIP leader Nigel Farage and Scottish comic
Kevin Bridges. This much-loved weekly show has moved from its Friday night slot,
a fond farewell to that end-of-the-week belly laugh.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              315 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

We're getting everything from this election but radicalism

BYLINE: Adrian Hamilton

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1290 words


How could the Tories get themselves into such a mess over the National Insurance
rates, commentators have asked in amazement at George Osborne's rushed
announcement on Monday. The answer is simple. The Tories, and the Government to
some extent, have been caught out by the recent upsurge in economic figures and
the greater mood of optimism among the public.

Up until a few months ago, the policy of the opposition was based on the view
that things had never been worse and weren't likely to get that much better.
Ministers might accuse them of kicking the economy when it was down, but the
Tory frontbench was able to claim that desperate times needed desperate
remedies. Austerity was the order of the day.

All this could return if you got some bad economic figures again in the run-up
to the election, of course. But for the moment the atmosphere has undoubtedly
been changed by a run of better figures suggesting that the recovery is under
way. Cheer is back on the menu and, more to the political purpose, pain seems
less necessary. Who wants to vote for higher taxes or poorer services when the
future looks so much rosier?

Rosier may prove somewhat over-optimistic. But the change in mood has led to an
almost obscene competition between the two parties - with the Lib Dems
attempting to maintain some sobriety in between - over who threatens the voter
least. Hence the absolute refusal of ministers or their opposite numbers on the
Tory frontbench to detail anything of their projected cuts in public expenditure
(someone is bound to yelp).

Hence the Chancellor's decision to phase in the rise in fuel duty over a year
and to postpone measures such as the increase in National Insurance payments
until after the election, under the guise of not doing anything to endanger the
recovery.

And hence the Tory's sudden promise to stop the rise in NI rates on the grounds
of helping unemployment, with only the wooliest explanation of how the Tories
would pay for it. Whatever academics may say about the public wanting the
straight story from the politicians, the politicians themselves view the public
as being entirely selfish in their view of tax and spend.

They have their reasons. The better the economy, the less the public wants
change. Even Mrs Thatcher found the polls moving against her in 1979 when she
was challenging the Callaghan administration as the economy recovered. And the
tighter the race, the less open the discussion of policy alternatives. The name
of the game becomes tripping up your opponents, not opening yourself up to
attack on detailed policy proposals - as we saw from the television debate
between the would-be Chancellors on Monday night.

That is not just a pity, it is a betrayal of the electorate. For if ever there
was a time when the full options should be discussed, it is in this election.
The country isn't out of recession, not by a long chalk. All the parties now
talk of cuts. But none is really prepared to lay on the line just how serious is
the situation - that on any of their programmes, the debt will not only remain
high but go on rising for the next three or four years.

Our way of meeting recession is by replicating all the same factors which got us
into the problems in the first place - low interest rates, higher house prices,
boosted consumption, increased debt, and of course, booming bank profits and
spiralling bonuses. How we get out of this is just put off until another year,
well beyond the election.

It may be that this is justifiable in terms of keeping the recovery fed and
watered. But the country, and its voters, should be told the consequences, which
is that our future will be in the hands of lenders from abroad and that we will
be saddling our children with a burden of debt that will depress their standard
of living for a decade or more, unless we simply try to inflate our way out of
our problems as we did in the past.

It's no good pretending that the recession was a sort of blip on the trend
curve, to which we can now resume with ne'er a backward glance. Put bluntly, the
financial crisis and the consequent recession has left us a country of limited
resources in a world of rising global competition, in which we can't any longer
keep up the assumptions of a front-rank power.

With the prospect of office coming ever closer, politicians from the main
parties don't wish to stir the deeper waters. Even the Lib Dems, whilst
approaching the brink of real change, draw back with the thought that as members
of a possible minority government they must look responsible if not
conventional. But there is a crying need for a genuine radicalism to be voiced
in this election other than the anti-immigration and anti-European calls of the
BNP and Ukip - a radicalism which says, no, we shouldn't be in Afghanistan, that
the path to the future of defence lies not in more boots on the ground, which
says actually our future is in Europe and that we should be prepared to sink
part of our sovereignty in a common cause.

The debate among all parties at the moment takes place on the assumption that
the soldiery is the one thing we shouldn't cut, just the hardware and possibly
Trident. Why not? From the point of view of the security of the British public,
boots on foreign grounds may be the last thing we should be sustaining.

So too with policy on Europe. Protecting our sovereignty is chanted as a mantra,
but on most issues - from climate change to trade negotiations, aid and much of
foreign policy - we are only effective as part of a group. What value
sovereignty when you haven't the muscle to exercise it?

Even on the issue of financial reform there's a case for operating under
community rather than national rules. To date the discussion has taken place
entirely as if it were a matter of controlling the banks and preferably
punishing them. But that is only half the problem. If you want to keep London as
a world financial centre - as we should for all the facile appeals to a
different economy based on manufacturing again as if this could be achieved by a
flick of the finger and few small investment schemes - then what is needed is
not concentration on the banks but a far more thorough-going reform of the
financial markets as a whole, the re-assertion of the power of the shareholders
over management, the transparency of the system and a new look at the role of
auditors. We could do this on our own and make London the place to operate in
because it was the best, not most loosely-run.

If you take the area of law, there is a crying need for a commission to look at
the whole body of law, how we sentence, how we handle the young, how we protect
rights and how we determine custodial sentences.

The same could be said of education, where someone surely needs to stand up and
condemn the whole move to academies for what it is, simply a cheap way of
avoiding getting to grips with the standards of state education, its
over-examination and its under-achievement.

The parties talk of constitutional reform, but each wants to take the bit that
suits them or gives a sop to reform - alternative voting, an elected second
chamber, set terms or whatever. None truly embraces it as a whole way of
refreshing our system of governance, including the civil service.

"Which of you can guarantee that I can have a place at university and be able to
buy a house," asked one of the audience of the three Chancellors in Monday's
debate. There was lot of waffle from the candidates, saying of course they
couldn't promise but they were proposing various measures that should make it
far easier.

It was the wrong answer. What one of three should have said was a straight "No.
Nobody can guarantee or even have confidence in either. Those days are over."

a.hamilton@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              316 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Foreign policy could yet be the decisive factor on 6 May;
Podium

BYLINE: Femi Alese

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 378 words


BRITAIN, A country with a huge budget deficit and at war on two fronts, will
soon have the leaders of its three main political parties go head-to-head in
three televised prime-ministerial debates. As they hone their delivery skills
and update knowledge on domestic concerns, it is the response to questions
pertaining to foreign policy that will determine who's perceived victorious by
viewers.

Revelations from the Chilcot inquiry, coupled with the neutral support from our
closest ally, the US, over the recent Falklands debacle leave much to be desired
about the special relationship. With the exceptions of Harold Wilson refusing to
go to Vietnam with Lyndon Johnson, and Harold Macmillan chastising Kennedy over
the reluctance to acknowledge our contribution to the creation of that good
stuff known as the atomic bomb, the special relationship appears to be one-way
traffic flowing against the tide on this side of the Atlantic. Consequently, the
leaders must be asked if they're prepared to wreck anything left of this
"specialty" by pledging to refuse to "pay a blood price" in any future wars
between the US and Iran or any other countries.

If a forward move across the pond can't be agreed upon, a backward one should be
possible. A turnaround in foreign policy terms confronts us with Europe. The
Lisbon Treaty is not a settled position for followers of Ukip and the
Conservatives, particularly in the West Country, and a large section of the
population that stubbornly refuses to accept that their cities and country are
located in Europe.

Consequently, the leaders must be asked whether, just like the Lisbon Treaty
which allows a million nationals of the European Union to petition the European
Commission to draft legislation in a given area for the purposes of implementing
the Treaty, they would allow a review of the European Communities Act 1972 (that
is, the "repealable" UK legislation which partially surrendered Britain's
sovereignty to Europe) following a million petitions from significant parts of
the United Kingdom.

We no longer own an empire, but those fabled acronyms - KBE, CBE, OBE and MBE -
testify to its enduring power. Britain's role in the world is the
under-estimated election issue.

Femi Alese is a Lecturer-in-Law at Aston University

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              317 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Immigration belongs in the electoral mainstream;
LEADING ARTICLE The BNP and Ukip must not be allowed to hijack this necessary
debate

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 575 words


The Prime Minister went to Spitalfields in east London yesterday to talk about
immigration. And it should be said that he did a creditable job of handling this
trickiest of subjects. It should also be said that from now on it is likely to
become more difficult for mainstream politicians to talk coolly about
immigration - not just for Gordon Brown, but for all major party leaders and
their candidates who will soon be knocking on voters' doors - as the BNP and
Ukip strive to get their messages out.

What was impressive about Mr Brown's speech was the logical and restrained tone.
In almost every respect the pitch was right - something this Prime Minister has
often struggled with. He sounded firm, humane and principled. There was
politics, of course; how could there not be? Not least in his challenge to other
parties to join him in combating "those who want to end immigration, not because
of the pressures it places on our communities, but simply because they don't
like migrants". A political gambit this may have been, but that does not make it
wrong.

And he was right to acknowledge the need to address voters' concerns about some
of the effects of immigration, just as he was right to reiterate Labour's
rejection of the "cap" on numbers that is Conservative policy. Not only, he
argued, would a predetermined "cap" be too inflexible, but, as a policy, it is
misleading, as it could not apply to the vast majority of new migrants,
including EU citizens, family members and students. It would apply only to those
from non-EU countries seeking to work here - the very same group of people now
subject to the recently introduced points system.

He can be accused of playing to the gallery with his message that illegal
migrants "who think they can get away without ... respecting our way of life"
are "not welcome". But there is, and should be, a distinction between those who
play by the rules and those who do not - not just in matters of migration. It is
a distinction that needs to be observed and enforced by any government, if that
government is to be credible.

All that said, the speech also contained less than frank admissions that the
Government's policy on migration has been flawed. The very title, "controlling
migration for a fairer Britain", implicitly concedes that either control or
fairness, or both, have not been adequate. The term "net migration", which is
now standard in government pronouncements, rather than immigration, also needs
to be watched, as it equates those leaving with those arriving - which may not
be a useful comparison, especially not to those living in areas where there are
"pressures" from new arrivals.

What Mr Brown described as "voters' concerns" will not be adequately addressed
if there is a gap between politicians' language and the real-life experience of
those voters. One potential source of misunderstanding here stems from
officials' tendency, when citing figures, to focus only on those coming to the
UK to work. The question of dependents is not broached, as Mr Brown in effect
concedes, when he says the Conservatives' "cap" would not apply to them.

If there is to be an electoral conversation on immigration - and Ukip, but
especially the BNP, must be prevented at all costs from hijacking it for their
own nefarious purposes - then the mainstream parties need to show not only the
same restraint, humanity and high principle that Mr Brown evinced yesterday, but
rather more honesty as well.

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              318 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Brown 'gave false immigration figures';
Prime Minister warned by national statistics watchdog after mistakes in podcast

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 526 words


GORDON BROWN was facing embarrassment last night after being condemned by the
national statistics watchdog for quoting false figures over the number of
foreigners coming to Britain.

The Prime Minister was rebuked hours after he used a major speech to try to take
the heat out of immigration as a general election issue by arguing that the
number of new arrivals was falling sharply.

Sir Michael Scholar, the chairman of the UK Statistics Authority, warned that Mr
Brown had used inaccurate information in an earlier Downing Street podcast about
immigration levels.

The Prime Minister claimed in the podcast that net inward migration fell from
237,000 in 2007 to 147,000 last year as evidence that the Government had a grip
on the issue.

But Sir Michael said the 2009 figure was misleading as it was taken from a
different set of data from the previous two years' statistics. He also said the
correct number for 2007 should have been 233,000. He pointed out the mistakes in
a letter to the Prime Minister and said he hoped that all parties would take
care to "protect the integrity of official statistics" during the general
election campaign.

Mr Brown did not repeat the mistake yesterday, quoting the correct figures as he
denied accusations that immigration was out of control. "There is only one
conclusion from all the published data that is available and it is this - over
this period, net inward migration has fallen," he said. "This does not mean
immigration isn't an issue. It is. That is why I am talking about it today. But
we should not allow people to scaremonger with unsubstantiated claims about
rising net inward migration today."

The Prime Minister said his government had "no intention" of allowing any
unskilled non-EU workers into Britain. He also announced that the numbers of
migrants given visas to work in jobs that are difficult to fill would be
reduced, with the door shut to non-EU chefs and care workers by the year 2014.

Mr Brown also said that tough new rules on overseas university applications
would lead to 40,000 fewer students coming to Britain this year. In the speech
in east London, Mr Brown promised Labour would achieve "fair and controlled"
migration through its Australian-style points-based system, which has no overall
limit to numbers.

He argued that Conservative proposals for an annual cap on migrants were
"arbitrary and unworkable" and bad for business. Last night, the Tories pounced
on the Prime Minister's mistake, saying it came after he gave wrong figures
about defence spending to the Chilcot inquiry on the Iraq war and the
advertising watchdog condemned Labour claims over police numbers.

Chris Grayling, the shadow Home Secretary, said: "Gordon Brown is turning into a
serial offender in misleading the British people in the run-up to the election.
Britain should expect better from its Prime Minister."

Chris Huhne, the Liberal Democrat home affairs spokesman, said: "Labour's
shambolic mismanagement has shattered public confidence in the immigration
system and undermined this country's historically liberal attitude towards
immigration."

BNP and Ukip must not be allowed to hijack the debate

Editorial, page 44

LOAD-DATE: March 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              319 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

WE LOVE TELLY;
OUR HUNT FOR LINDSAY'S KILLER..

BYLINE: JANE SIMON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 760 words


LOST ABROAD: THE PARENTS' STORY C4, 9pm

THE title is misleading. Lindsay Hawker and Jeremiah Duggan weren't lost abroad.

They died in bizarre circumstances their parents will never fully understand.

Lindsay's death became known as the Body In The Bath Killing.

She was found buried in sand on the balcony of a Tokyo apartment.

When Japanese police went to the flat, they let the man suspected of her murder
push past and run into one of the most densely populated cities in the world.

This film follows the tireless efforts of the 22-year-old English teacher's
father, Bill, her mother Julia and Lindsay's two sisters to bring Tatsuya
Ichihashi to justice.

"We thought if something like this happened there would be somebody out there -
a government or police department to help you," says Julia. "And there isn't."

Erica Duggan is trying to get German police to reopen the case into the death of
her son Jeremiah in 2003.

It was ruled as suicide after the student was killed on a motorway. But 40
minutes before he died, he phoned his mother in fear of his life.

Seven years later Erica is still trying to find out what led her handsome,
clever and caring son to travel to Germany with a group of anti-war protesters.

What she discovers makes for the scarcely believable stuff of thrillers.

The longer she struggles for the truth about 22-yearold Jeremiah, the greater
the strain on Erica and her family. But, as she says: "I don't have the strength
to give up."

WE LOVE DRAMA

THE BILL ITV1, 9pm

WHILE fans, and no doubt the cast and crew, are still reeling from ITV's
decision to drop Britain's longest-running police drama, The Bill gives us
something to get our teeth into with part one of a two-parter.

The team must manage match-day tensions as troublemakers infiltrate football
fans and are soon spoiling for a fight. But when Superintendent Jack Meadows
(Simon Rouse) decides to "kettle" one group of fans in a side street, it gets
pretty tense at HQ too.

Commander Lisa Kennedy (Julie Graham) disagrees with his strategy - most often
used by police to contain rioters. Her son just happens to be in the crowd and
things are getting ugly on the street.

All this as Sgt Stone (Sam Callis) gets his first outing in public after a
previous brush with a civilian nearly cost him his job. Kennedy is soon
threatening to overrule Meadows. But whose tactics will pay off?

Catch Meadows, Smith and Co while you can. By this autumn they'll be off our
screens.

WE LOVE QUIZZES

HAVE I GOT NEWS FOR YOU BBC1, 9.30pm

IT'S series 39 of the topical panel game and tonight's headline is: HIGNFY has
transferred from its traditional Friday night to a new Thursday night slot.

That aside, it's normal service as comedian Lee Mack breaks from his nationwide
tour to host.

HIGNFY might be billed as the comedy quiz that grills celebrity contestants on
the week's top news stories, but we all know it's an excuse for team captains
Paul Merton and Ian Hislop to make jokes at the expense of everyone else on the
show.

Stepping up this week are Nigel Farage MEP, former leader of the United Kingdom
Independence Party, and Scottish comedian Kevin Bridges.

Bridges is likely to give as good has he gets. But Farage may find that
political barracking is no preparation for the heckling he could get from the
HIGNFY team.

WE LOVE SOAPS

EMMERDALE ITV1, 7pm and 8pm

HAVING unburdened his secret to Laurel, Ashley must now share the humiliating
details of his sexual assault with the police.

And, possibly even worse, with his dad and father-in-law.

While everybody is as sympathetic as they can be, the urge to remind Ashley that
he's a damn fool who has brought all this on himself is, for some anyway, simply
too much to resist.

EASTENDERS BBC1, 7.30pm

AN hour-long episode tonight begins with a poo in Bianca's hallway and spirals
downhill from there.

And if you're of an age where you find Billie and his gun-waving little gang
mates tedious beyond belief, you're in for a bumpy ride as Kylie chooses
Lauren's 16th birthday party to teach Billie a lesson.

But as the dust settles, we're very sorry to say that it's not Billie who'll be
coming off worst.

CORONATION STREET ITV1, 8.30pm

LIFE has knocked John Stape and Jason sideways this week, and Nick Tilsley too -
although in his case, the blows were purely physical.

This is a bit of an in-between episode while Rita plucks up the courage to book
a date with Lewis, and Steve is planning to whisk Becky away for some five-star
bonking.

But will she be up for it?

TURN OVER FOR BRITAIN'S BEST TV GUIDE

DON'T MISS YOUR FANTASTIC TV MAG FREE IN THE MIRROR ON SATURDAY

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPAIGN Julia and Bill go Tokyo in search of daughter Lindsay's killer
TACKLED Cops target footie fan BACK AGAIN Ian and Paul LESSON TIME Kylie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              320 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 Scots Edition

WE LOVE TELLY;
OUR HUNT FOR LINDSAY'S KILLER..

BYLINE: JANE SIMON

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 61

LENGTH: 749 words


LOST ABROAD: THE PARENTS' STORY C4, 9pm

THE title is misleading. Lindsay Hawker and Jeremiah Duggan weren't lost abroad.

They died in bizarre circumstances their parents will never fully understand.

Lindsay's death became known as the Body In The Bath Killing.

She was found buried in sand on the balcony of a Tokyo apartment.

When Japanese police went to the flat, they let the man suspected of her murder
push past and run into one of the most densely populated cities in the world.

This film follows the tireless efforts of the 22-year-old English teacher's
father, Bill, her mother Julia and Lindsay's two sisters to bring Tatsuya
Ichihashi to justice.

"We thought if something like this happened there would be somebody out there -
a government or police department to help you," says Julia. "And there isn't."

Erica Duggan is trying to get German police to reopen the case into the death of
her son Jeremiah in 2003.

It was ruled as suicide after the student was killed on a motorway. But 40
minutes before he died, he phoned his mother in fear of his life.

Seven years later Erica is still trying to find out what led her handsome,
clever and caring son to travel to Germany with a group of anti-war protesters.

What she discovers makes for the scarcely believable stuff of thrillers.

The longer she struggles for the truth about 22-yearold Jeremiah, the greater
the strain on Erica and her family. But, as she says: "I don't have the strength
to give up."

WE LOVE DRAMA

GRACIE! BBC2 9PM

PREVIOUSLY screened on BBC4 back in November, this bio-pic of Rochdale legend
Gracie Fields is a showcase for the incredible singing and mimicry talents of
Jane Horrocks.

Like all the films in this series about seriously talented British women - Enid
Blyton, Margot Fonteyn - it seizes on any whiff of scandal to shoehorn a real
life into the straightjacket of drama.

In the case of Gracie Fields, the crisis comes when she lost her British
citizenship after marrying an Italian movie director during the war. She left
the country and suffered a drop in popularity as a result. It's a shame because
this is one of the least interesting aspects about the woman who was born over a
chip shop and became, according to some reports anyway, the highest paid film
actress in the world.

Tom Hollander plays Gracie's second husband, but it's the songs - and Horrocks'
performance that carries this along.

WE LOVE QUIZZES

HAVE I GOT NEWS FOR YOU BBC1, 9.30pm

IT'S series 39 of the topical panel game and tonight's headline is: HIGNFY has
transferred from its traditional Friday night to a new Thursday night slot.

That aside, it's normal service as comedian Lee Mack breaks from his nationwide
tour to host.

HIGNFY might be billed as the comedy quiz that grills celebrity contestants on
the week's top news stories, but we all know it's an excuse for team captains
Paul Merton and Ian Hislop to make jokes at the expense of everyone else on the
show.

Stepping up this week are Nigel Farage MEP, former leader of the United Kingdom
Independence Party, and Scottish comedian Kevin Bridges.

Bridges is likely to give as good has he gets. But Farage may find that
political barracking is no preparation for the heckling he could get from the
HIGNFY team.

WE LOVE SOAPS

EMMERDALE ITV1, 7pm and 8pm

HAVING unburdened his secret to Laurel, Ashley must now share the humiliating
details of his sexual assault with the police.

And, possibly even worse, with his dad and father-in-law.

While everybody is as sympathetic as they can be, the urge to remind Ashley that
he's a damn fool who has brought all this on himself is, for some anyway, simply
too much to resist.

EASTENDERS BBC1, 7.30pm

AN hour-long episode tonight begins with a poo in Bianca's hallway and spirals
downhill from there.

And if you're of an age where you find Billie and his gun-waving little gang
mates tedious beyond belief, you're in for a bumpy ride as Kylie chooses
Lauren's 16th birthday party to teach Billie a lesson.

But as the dust settles, we're very sorry to say that it's not Billie who'll be
coming off worst.

CORONATION STREET ITV1, 8.30pm

LIFE has knocked John Stape and Jason sideways this week, and Nick Tilsley too -
although in his case, the blows were purely physical.

This is a bit of an in-between episode while Rita plucks up the courage to book
a date with Lewis, and Steve is planning to whisk Becky away for some five-star
bonking.

But will she be up for it?

TURN OVER FOR BRITAIN'S BEST TV GUIDE

DON'T MISS YOUR FANTASTIC TV MAG FREE IN THE MIRROR ON SATURDAY

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CAMPAIGN Julia and Bill go Tokyo in search of daughter Lindsay's killer
INCREDIBLE Horrocks as Gracie Fields BACK AGAIN Ian and Paul LESSON TIME Kylie

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              321 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 1, 2010 Thursday 12:30 PM GMT

More on Vote Match: this online tool could create havoc for smug politicians

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 115 words


I wrote about the Telegraph's Vote Match feature this morning, and ever since my
friends have been ringing me up to tell me what they've learned about their own
political preferences. "I didn't know I was Ukip!" shrieks a Labour stalwart -
who then confesses that, actually, now she thinks about it, she probably is
going to vote Ukip. The political parties co-operated in providing policy
information for the Vote Match General Election 2010 project, but I wonder if
they'll soon be wishing they'd never heard of the initiative. Anyway, as I said
before, take the test and get your friends and family to do so as well. I love
the idea of Vote Match going viral in marginal constituencies...

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              322 of 322 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 1, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Chatter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 158 words


Trends, topics and tweets Up early, don't think much of this weather, is this
the kind of thing people want to read though really? Still not sure about
twitter to be honest tinyurl.com/ LouiseWener Of course, it's perfect timing
that, with the most vicious hangover in recent memory, tonight I go on "Heston's
Feasts" to eat roast dormice tinyurl.com/ CaitlinMoranTweets Potential for hung
Parliament? Possible invocation of Lascelles principles? Oh, how I long for
voting rights! tinyurl.com/ BeeLavender Bipartisanship, Bigfoot, Loch Ness
Monster, Toothfairy, Easterbunny: ALL False Beliefs tinyurl.com/ DocZombie Don't
think it's possible to loathe my PC any more than I do right now. Not very
healthy is it? It's only a machine after all.

tinyurl.com/Abbuffata And who compared Quantitative Easing to the Robert Mugabe
school of economics? tinyurl.com/Krish-G-M Can UKIP misspell its own name in an
election leaflet? You bet!

tinyurl.com/GraphMan

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
