
                               1 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            January 31, 2010 Sunday

UKIP MAN!S GAFFE AS HE MIS SPELLS OEBRITIAN!

BYLINE: BY KERI SUTHERLAND

LENGTH: 177 words


BOXING promoter Frank Maloney has launched his campaign to become an MP - with
posters spelling the word Britain incorrectly.

The posters and leaflets bear the slogan Frank Maloney - Fighting For Barking
And Fighting For Britian.

However, UK Independence Party candidate Mr Maloney, right, claimed the mistake
was a trick to get voters! attention. OEI did that on purpose to see how many
people pay attention,! he added. OEIt causes interest. It means people start
talking to you.!

He said he had used the same trick on promotional posters for boxing contests.
Mr Maloney, who will stand in Barking, East London, at this year!s General
Election, said: OEI am concerned about the way the country is going. You can!t
just sit on your backside and do nothing. I have every intention of winning.!

Mr Maloney will be trying to unseat Labour MP Margaret Hodge. Tory Simon Marcus
and BNP leader Nick Griffin are also expected to stand.

The error comes a week after Republican Scott Brown won the Massachusetts US
Senate seat after his rival spelled the state!s name incorrectly.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 31, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Burqas simply not British;
LETTERS

BYLINE: Keith Clough

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 436 words


DOMINIC LAWSON says that "banning the burqa is simply not British" and would
betray our principles of freedom and liberty (Comment, last week). The burqa is
a symbol of Islam, which, in its worldwide quest to replace our Judaeo-Christian
culture, is the source of nearly all modern terrorism. It has no separation of
powers, being a political, legal and religious system rolled into one; the
penalty for leaving it, or for insulting it, is death. All of it is based on the
Koran, and is encapsulated in sharia, a medieval legal system of flagrant gender
apartheid.

Men are superior to women because "Allah has chosen them one above the other",
so a woman's testimony in court is worth half a man's (Sura: 2:282). Only men
can give evidence in rape and adultery cases, which also carry the death
penalty. Sura 4.34 says that if a man fears his wife is being disloyal, he
should beat her, and Suras 2:229 and 230 allow men to divorce their wives
without reason. Hardly very British.

And yes, Mr Lawson, all this is happening in a town near you, and it won't be
long before it invades the appeasing comfort in which our political class lives.
For years it castigated as racist anyone who dared to warn about uncontrolled
immigration. Now it is sowing another wind by refusing to face up to the reality
of Islam.

At least the article was an admirable contribution to the debate we so urgently
need to have, especially with the vast majority of mild, non-burqawearing
Muslims who are our friends, and I thank you for that.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch Leader, UKIP

State of the nation

You encapsulated the state of play in Britain on one page: "Public sector faces
pay cuts, says Darling", "Pie man was child safety chief" and "Labour MP's
'false' claim", News, last week). We read that the Doncaster children's director
was a £103,000 pie man with no relevant experience who is now back to sausages
and pizzas, and that the Labour MP David Chaytor claimed £13,000 for a flat he
owns but pretended was his daughter's. Great examples for the 55% of local
government staff who take home less than £20,000, together with others in the
public services who have to apologise daily for their part in the financial
collapse.

David Long, Christchurch, Dorset

Darling should follow his own advice

Alistair Darling is warning public sector workers to follow the example of those
in the private sector and accept wage cuts if they want to hang on to their
jobs. Since the chancellor is on a public sector salary, I hope he and his
colleagues will heed this warning themselves or accept the consequences on May
6.

Keith Clough, Abingdon, Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 31, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Nation faces ruin under yoke of EU;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 38

LENGTH: 145  words


THE letter "Ditch EU and get rid of our 'puppet' politicians" (Sunday Express,
January 24) was spot-on.

Our politicians of all parties (apart from UKIP) appear to be blind to the
effect that our continued participation in the EU will have on the welfare of
this country.

The original concept of the EU being, in the main, a trading agreement has long
since gone.

There now seems a determination to reduce every member country to the level of
the poorest in the union.

Lessons should be learned from the plight of a number of East European countries
which almost 100 years ago ere swallowed up into the Soviet Union and became
states instead of countries, with administration emanating from the central
body.

The EU is well on its way to becoming Western Europe's Soviet Union with
once-prosperous countries reduced to impoverished states.

Geoff Manning, Lower Kingswood, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 31, 2010 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

FRANK FOR PM.. OR MP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 69 words


BOXING promoter Frank Maloney launched his campaign to become an MP yesterday -
with a spelling mistake on his posters.

They bore the slogan "Frank Maloney - Fighting for Barking and Fighting for
Britian".

But Mr Maloney, UKIP's man in Barking, north-east London, said "Britian" was a
trick to grab attention.

"It creates interest - people start talking about you," he said. "I used the
same trick on boxing posters."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 31, 2010 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

FRANK FOR PM.. OR MP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 63 words


BOXING promoter Frank Maloney launched his campaign to become a British MP
yesterday - with a spelling mistake on his posters.

They bore the slogan "Frank Maloney - Fighting for Barking and Fighting for
Britian".

But Mr Maloney, UKIP's man in Barking, north-east London, said "Britian" was a
trick to grab attention.

"It creates interest - people start talking about you," he said.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           January 30, 2010 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS ON SATURDAY

LENGTH: 1003 words


NEW LABOUR HEAVEN IS HELL FOR A TORY MP

LEFT-WINGERS are trying to depict David Davies, the Tory MP for Monmouth, as
some sort of foaming reactionary. All he did was deplore as too lenient a
three-year sentence given to a 14-year- old rapist, Balal Khan.

Mr Davies, a part-time policeman, suggested that 'some communities don't respect
women's rights at all'.

Good for him, speaking up for vulnerable women. But when he put his case in the
Commons on Wednesday, Labour women -- particularly a hard-core feminist from
Milton Keynes called Starkey -- hissed and snorted. It was as if they felt they
were the only ones who could ever speak up for women.

Mr Davies was also attacked by Prof Heaven Crawley, 'director of the Centre for
Migration Policy Research' at Swansea University. She tut-tutted that Mr Davies
had used 'very dangerous words' by suggesting that in some instances 'barbaric'
attitudes to women were 'being imported into this country'.

I urge you to visit the website of Prof Crawley's publicly funded centre in
Swansea. Leftist buzzwords abound. The whole thing could be a pastiche of The
Guardian's social policy pages. One of Prof Crawley's colleagues, Alan
Finlayson, was author of the publication Making Sense Of New Labour. Good luck
to him!

As for Prof Crawley, who took her MA in 'Gender and Development' at Sussex
University, she was once head of the 'citizenship and governance programme' at a
think-tank called the IPPR. It happens to be close to the Labour Party. She was
also an adviser to the Labour- controlled Commons Select Committee on Home
Affairs.

If journalists are looking for an objective critic, they could perhaps look
elsewhere.

I'd say Monmouth is lucky to have the forthright Mr Davies as its Member of
Parliament. What he said was not 'dangerous'. What is really dangerous is when
MPs feel scared of voicing widelyshared opinions.

Meanwhile, if we get a Tory Government and it has to cut spending on
universities, perhaps it could start by closing a certain migration policy
research centre in South Wales.

A NARROW SQUEAK!

COMMONS Speaker John Bercow, far from standing unopposed in his Buckingham
constituency at the coming election, faces something more akin to the field of
the Grand National.

Not only will he face a challenge from Ukip's Nigel Farage and a former High
Sheriff of Buckinghamshire, Patrick Phillips. I now hear a former Conservative
MEP, John Stevens, may join the fray.

Mr Stevens, who was frozen out of the Tory Party for being too pro-European, has
allies in the Lib Dems and could suck away Mr Bercow's soft-centre voters. He is
a friend of Buckingham's former MP, George Walden.

Next week, Mr Stevens will test the waters by distributing questionnaires in
Buckingham. They will carry hard-hitting remarks about Squeaker Bercow's receipt
expenses claims. A friend of Mr Stevens says he is motivated by disgust at the
low standing of Parliament and feels that 'potting Bercow' would send out a
strong message that our politics must change.

Could Mr Stevens split the anti-Bercow vote? Maybe. But it could, just as
easily, split the pro-Bercow vote. If I were the Squeaker, I think I would be
feeling uneasy.

TOG? THAT'S TERRY'S OLD GAGS

HOW is that slacker Sir Terry Wogan spending his early mornings, now that he no
longer presents his breakfast show on Radio 2?

He perhaps offered us a hint at this week's Oldie of the Year awards, presented
to the likes of PD James, Chris Mullin MP and Joanna Lumley at a bibulous
Simpson's-in-the-Strand lunch.

Compere Sir Terry told of a new retiree who, breaking long custom, offers to
cook his wife breakfast. He has just put the eggs in the boiling water when his
memsahib rushes into the kitchen and demands that he make ravishing love to her,
there and then. The fellow does as he is told.

At the end of the encounter, he asks his wife: 'What was all that about?' She
replies: 'Oh, didn't I tell you? The egg timer is broken.'

AT the Oldie lunch Joanna Lumley spoke of Phil Woolas, the Immigration Minister
she so magnificently steamrollered during the row about Gurkhas' settlement
rights. She disclosed that she has now become friendly with Mr Woolas -- to the
point that she addresses him to his face as 'Phyllis'.

REPORTERS covering the earthquake in Haiti have not had some of the comforts
afforded to certain international charity workers. Channel Four's Jonathan
Rugman has just returned from a week in the disaster zone. While there, for want
of any other accommodation, he slept in the Wendy House-style tent which he had
borrowed from his children before leaving London.

SHADOW Culture Minister Ed Vaizey is a chum of David Cameron. Just as well. This
week Mr Vaizey was at an event with Dr Who actor David Tennant. A fellow Tory MP
reminded Mr Vaizey that Labour-supporting Mr Tennant recently described Mr
Cameron as 'a regional newsreader who will jump on whatever bandwagon flies
past'. Mr Vaizey was shocked. 'That,' he said, 'is an outrageous attack on
regional newsreaders.'

DAVID DAVIS, Shadow Home Secretary in Exile, protested in the Commons this week
that John Prescott MP had abused parliamentary privilege to attack Lord Lawson.
He said the attack would have been slanderous if uttered outside Parliament.

As is only proper, Mr Davis gave Mr Prescott prior notice. Finding him in the
Commons tea room, he first asked the former deputy Prime Minister if he intended
to reply to a letter Lord Lawson had sent him.

'Of course I ****in' ain't!' snarled Mr Prescott. Then Mr Davis said he would
pursue the matter in the House. 'Oooh,' said the great statesman Prescott, 'I'm
quaking in my boots.'

Lovely creature, isn't he?

BRITAIN'S GOT TALLON. . .

HAVING been given Britain's Got Talent finalist Susan Boyle's excellent album
for Christmas, I am not one to take a pop at that prime example of Scottish
womanhood. What a lassie! And what a good singer. But does she not, when
photographed from certain angles, bear a striking similarity to the late
'Backstairs Billy' Tallon, the Queen Mother's favourite manservant?

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 30, 2010 Saturday 8:03 PM GMT

Just 6 per cent of top Conservative candidates give a stuff about 'reducing
Britain's carbon footprint'

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 628 words


At last, some promising news about our likely next Government. Conservative Home
has polled the 250 Tory candidates with the most winnable seats on their most
important personal priorities in the next election. And guess what? Of the 19
suggested issues, "Reducing Britain's carbon footprint" came right at the bottom
of their list.

The candidates were given a list of policy priorities and were asked to give
each one of them a rating between 1 and 5, 1 meaning the goal would not be
important to them and 5 meaning it would be very important to them. A mere eight
of the 141 candidates who bothered to respond to the survey felt "reducing
Britain's carbon footprint" deserved a 5. Its average was just 2.8.

Unfortunately, because the survey was carried out confidentially I can't give
you the names of the eight candidates you shouldn't vote for under any
circumstances even if the only alternative candidate comes from the Monster
Raving Loony Party. But I think most of you will agree the result is quite
amazingly encouraging.

Although number three most popular priority on the list was the mildly ludicrous
"Proving that the Tories can be trusted on the NHS", I like to think this owes
more to Party HQ brainwashing than heartfelt inclination. Pretty much all the
other items that get a high rating ooze Conservatism of the proper, old-school,
small-state, market-friendly rather than the grisly, progressive Cameroon
variety.

The top ones are:

Reducing the budget deficit - 4.72

Cutting red tape and regulation, particularly for small businesses - 4.37

Reducing welfare bills - 4.19

Proving the Tories can be trusted on the NHS - 3.91

Reversing Labour's erosion of civil liberties - 3.95

Reforming the tax system and cutting some taxes - 3.99

Supporting a Conservative agenda for fighting poverty - 3.88

Winning powers back from Europe - 3.86

More offenders in prison and more young people helped off the conveyor belt of
crime 3.90

Reducing the level of immigration 3.87

Strengthening Britain's military 3.76

Among those who didn't contribute to the survey was Louise Bagshawe. But for
those in her prospective constituency (Corby and East Northamptonshire) who need
a reason to vote UKIP, she provides one here with this unbelievably fatuous
comment:

Reducing our carbon footprint is a major priority for me, for example, and I see
it going hand in hand with lowering energy bills (insulation, nuclear, offshore
wind).

How, in God's name, is offshore wind compatible with lower energy bills?

Still, let's look on the bright side: if those 141 respondents are in any way
representative, this is excellent news. First it means that Cameron hasn't
completely managed to stuff the candidates' list with bland, heir-to-Blair
centrists. Second, it means that there's at least the dimmest of dim
possibilities that the Tories might come round to formulating a sensible policy
on energy and climate change.

The biggest stumbling block, I fear, is Cameron himself. He believes in "Climate
Change" as fervently as New Agers believe in the healing power of crystals.
Eating organic, buying the kids' gear from Boden, and your coffee cups from Cath
Kidston, buying distressed furniture from I Saw You Coming, worrying about
glaciers: for over a decade now, these have been among the Notting Hill set's
most dearly-held articles of faith. It will require a great deal of persuasion
before Dave allows his green conservatives to adopt a more sensible position.
One that doesn't, say, require Britain to ruin its economy still further by
persisting with Labour's plans to spend 18 billion a year on measures to "combat
climate change".

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 29, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GREEDY MPS ON GBP 450,000 A YEAR;
Euro gravy train grows, and we pay

BYLINE: EXCUUSIVE By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 605  words


GRASPING Euro MPs will snatch even more money from hard-pressed British
taxpayers after voting themselves a bonus which puts their pay and expenses
package up to GBP 450,000 a year.

MEPs want to feather their nest with an extra GBP 1,300 a month, it emerged last
night.

They claim the extra cash is needed because the controversial Lisbon Treaty has
increased their workload. The extra money is supposed to pay for the hire of
staff, though they already get a GBP 15,000-a-month allowance for employees.

Some of the EU's 785 MEPs, of which 72 are from the UK, can rake in more than
GBP 360,000 a year in expenses. The growing gravy train dwarfs the amounts
claimed by Westminster MPs, whose milking of the Commons system has caused
outrage in Britain.

During the five-year term of a Brussels Parliament, an MEP can clock-up an
eye-watering GBP 1,816,250 in expenses alone. On top of that is a basic salary
of GBP 83,282 and they pay income tax of just 15 per cent.

In contrast a backbench Westminster MP earns less than GBP 65,000.

It has also emerged that the freespending European Parliament has frittered away
GBP 2.3million to renovate its own sports centre, GBP 4.3million on an
under-used visitor centre and hundreds of thousands of pounds on gasguzzling
cars.

The latest example of the lavish expenditure in Brussels and Strasbourg comes
just days after Gordon Brown's open-armed welcome at Downing Street to the new
EU President Herman Van Rompuy, who earns GBP 320,000 a year.

It is a further kick in the teeth for the British public as the UK limps out of
its worst recession in 70 years.

Timothy Kirkhope, Conservative leader in the European Parliament, said: "A lot
of people will ask whether this increase is appropriate, not just because of the
economic conditions, but also because we have yet to judge the effects of the
Lisbon Treaty on how the Parliament will function and the staff resources
necessary."

Matthew Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This is pure
greed, and is sadly typical of the money-grabbing culture in Brussels.

"It is disgusting that while ordinary, hard-working people suffer pay cuts and
redundancies, MEPs are filling their boots."

A final decision on the extra money will be made within days after the European
Parliament's budgets committee voted in favour of the increase earlier this
week.

All but one of the MEPs on the committee voted to support the proposals from the
Parliament's leadership at a cost of GBP 12million this year. The increase will
mean that the Parliament will exceed the ceiling of 20 per cent o f the EU's
total GBP 1.4billion administrative budget in 2010.

MEPs from the biggest political groups argue that the extra funds are needed to
help them deal with the new powers they have gained under the Lisbon Treaty,
especially the need to hire expert staff.

Klaus Welle, the Parliament's secretary-general, defended the proposed increase.
"With Lisbon, the Parliament has to ask where it concentrates its resources, "
he said.

"We have to use our powers of scrutiny and control, but we're not as well
equipped as we should be."

Marta Andreasen, UKIP MEP for the South-east of England, who voted against the
rise, said: "We are goin g through tough times at the moment with the economic
crisis and where is this money going to come from?"

Mats Persson, of Eurosceptic think tank Open Europe, said: "MEPs already receive
more than enough cash so there's no justification for this increase. If they
want to be taken seriously by European taxpayers they have to cut back on their
lavish habits, particularly as people continue to feel the pinch of the
recession."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tory MEPs' leader Timothy Kirkhope

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 29, 2010 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Letter: Veil ban debate

BYLINE: Ken Livingstone, Susan Kramer MP, Claude Moraes MEP, Jenny Jones Green
party, Cllr Salma Yaqoob, Edie Friedman Jewish Council for Racial Equality, Anas
Altikiriti British Muslim Initiative, and five

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 209 words


Raphael Liogier is right to point out the problems with France's proposed ban on
the veil (Comment, 27 January, which will pave the way for similar moves against
other visible expressions of religion. Shutting down the right to choose to wear
the veil will only further embolden Islamophobia, the far right and fascist
parties. The debate has had the net effect of demonising a minority of Muslim
women, who number less than 2,000 in France. It will mean the only option for
many of these women will be to stay confined to their homes. All this,
ironically, in the name of integration and the liberation of women. We are one
society and many cultures; respecting and allowing all cultures freedom of
expression, as long as this does not impinge on the rights of others, means all
communities can fully contribute to society. The debate in France is already
impacting here, with Ukip calling for a ban on the burka and niqab. These issues
and many others will be discussed at the Progressive London conference this
Saturday.

Ken Livingstone, Susan Kramer MP, Claude Moraes MEP, Jenny Jones Green party,
Cllr Salma Yaqoob, Edie Friedman Jewish Council for Racial Equality, Anas
Altikiriti British Muslim Initiative, and five others (see
guardian.co.uk/letters)

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 29, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MEPs give themselves £15,000 more for extra work

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 139 words


Brussels MEPs are planning to award themselves another ¤18,000 (£15,600) a year
towards what they say is an increased workload caused by the Lisbon treaty
(David Charter writes).

An extra ¤13.3 million for the 736 members of the European Parliament comes on
top of the above-inflation 3.7 per cent pay rise that MEPs and officials have
been awarded, taking MEP annual salaries to approximately ¤95,635. The payment
is separate from MEPs' general expenditure allowance, which covers office costs,
and was ¤4,202 a month last year.

MEPs defended the rises, which will be voted on next month, arguing that there
would be more work because the Lisbon treaty gave them a say in EU decisions,
including the EU budget.

Nigel Farage, leader of UKIP's MEPs, said: "This is wholly unnecessary because
MEPs' allowances are already incredibly generous."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 28, 2010 Thursday

Muslims in the UK: beyond the hype

BYLINE: Jonathan Githens-Mazerguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 938 words

ABSTRACT

Jonathan Githens-Mazer and Robert Lambert: Our new centre for the study of
Muslims in Europe will look past the fear-mongering headlines, to real lives

FULL TEXT

Today, we are proud to launch the  (EMRC) at the University of Exeter. We hope
that the EMRC will be part of a wider process of voices and perspectives which
are too often being ignored, or buried under a tide of negative portrayals of
Muslim communities and Islam by .

What good is an academic centre on these kinds of issues? The EMRC has taken a
first step towards highlighting problems which Muslims are facing on a daily
basis. We've looked at cases like that of Yasir Abdelmouttalib. Six years ago
Yasir, a young Moroccan, was nearly killed while waiting to take a bus from
Willesden to Regent's Park in London. Dressed in traditional Islamic white robes
to go to his Friday prayers, this young PhD student was minding his own
business, when he was set upon by a gang. After a "barrage of spitting", the
gang attacked him and one gang member beat his head with a street broom so badly
that his brain was dislodged and his skull had multiple fractures. Yasir was
left in a coma for three months.

What had Yasir done to deserve these injuries? He had no political cause. He
wasn't protesting, he wasn't trying to make any point in wider society. He was a
young man, waiting for a bus so he could pray. So what made it OK to beat a
man's brains out for no good reason?

Earlier this month , a former BNP member, was convicted of manufacturing a huge
array of firearms and explosives, ranging from nail-bombs and machine guns to a
rocket launcher. Gavan claimed that he had a "fascination with things that go
bang", but others highlight that he felt he had to defend his fellow countrymen
fighting Muslims in foreign lands. Gavan wasn't on the counter-terrorist radar -
the spotlight of attention wasn't focused on him, but on Muslims as a threat to
Britain, rather than British threats to Muslims.

Two cases ranging over six years - but more than isolated incidents in modern
Britain. Just ask Mohammed Kohelee, the heroic caretaker who suffered burns to
his body while trying to prevent an arson attack against Greenwich Mosque last
June. Or look at the murder last September of Tooting pensioner Ekram Haque.
Haque was brutally beaten to death in front of his three year old granddaughter
by a "race-hate" gang. Or ask the  this past weekend during an English Defence
League (EDL) march in Stoke. In 2010, British Muslims face physical peril for
simply being Muslim.

Our Centre's first report, "" is out today. Too much academic and "thinktank"
research is based on poor methodological engagement, and repackaging hearsay and
assumption in the guise of intellectual contribution. We hope that the EMRC, in
partnership with communities and other academics will provide an alternative to
this kind of work.

As part of this, our centre will engage not only with Muslim communities, but
also policy-makers and organisations such as the police. As those police
officers remind us in today's report, this kind of violence isn't happening in a
vacuum - and is more than the actions of a few mindless thugs. Politicians,
ranging from the fringes of UKIP and the BNP, to serious mainstream politicians
in the Labour and Conservative parties, not only feel that there is no social or
political penalty for attacking Islam, but that not attacking Muslims enough
risks being politically outflanked. Politicians are making regular political
assessments that it's a vote-winner to call for the  rather than the EDL -
despite the fact the EDL has organised a string of marches which have led to
police officers being injured and civil unrest.

This behaviour is egged on by populist commentators in the tabloids and beyond,
who sensationalise stories to gain print space and air time. They constantly
highlight the activities of an incredibly small part of the Muslim community,
without ever once considering how the toxic atmosphere they are creating
endangers Muslims who lead average non-violent lives. Britons everywhere are fed
a diet of the threat of Islam, of concerns about "Islamic extremism", "Islamic
radicalisation", and a lack of cultural integration.

These reductionist and populist portrayals of Muslims in Britain don't do our
society any credit. Politicians need to be braver - and reject cheap votes for
real political engagement. Shouldn't politicians actually credit the British
public with being a resilient people - intelligent and fair, willing to discuss
serious issues in adult ways? The incredibly base nature of the depiction of
Muslims by popular Islamophobic commentators betrays more about their personal
fears and ingrained prejudices than their desire to make Britain a better place.
Who contributes more to British society, the tabloid fear-monger, or the Muslim
community anti-war activist?

In the end Terence Gavan was sentenced to 11 years in prison. Yasir
Abdelmouttalib miraculously survived - though his recovery continues slowly. The
failed arsonists at Greenwich Mosque still roam free, and Tooting suffered a
spate of anti-Muslim violence. When violence against Muslims stems from thinking
childishly, about personal political gain and populist exploitation of fear
rather than the betterment of all sections of society, shouldn't we put such
childish thoughts aside and make room for real adult political engagement and
debate?

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 28, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A ban on headscarves just leaves women out in the cold

BYLINE: Suna Erdem

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1124 words


When I was growing up in Turkey,my secularminded relatives would cringe when
they saw a woman covered up in the black garb of Islam - the burka, chador or
any of the other shapeless body coverings. "Cockroaches!" they would groan - and
audibly. "They have no right to be here." This was, and still is, a country
untainted by political correctness.

I saw no reason to disagree. I had been brought up to regard Islamic
head-coverings as unpleasant and degrading. When Turkey was created from the
remains of the Ottoman Empire, the state was made secular and the trappings of
Islam discouraged. Push them out of sight and hopefully they would go away.

Having spent much of the past decade reporting on the plight of women with
headscarves, I still do not enjoy the idea that women's hair and bodies are so
sinful that they must be covered. But I find it hard to come up with any
justification for a ban, as debated in France and, it seems, embraced by UKIP
over here.

Despite its mainly Muslim population, Turkey, whose strict understanding of
secularism was imported from France, has Draconian practises against female
Islamic clothing. There is no law specifically outlawing the burka or the
headscarf, the more common choice in Turkey. But various central directives and
local decisions have meant that Turkish women wearing headscarves have been
effectively prohibited from parliament, state offices and universities (even
France went only as far as schools).

The strictness with which the unofficial ban was imposed ebbed and flowed with
the prevailing mood, but was forcefully imposed after a coup in 1980 and became
stricter in 1998, after Necmettin Erbakan, Turkey's controversial Islamist Prime
Minister, was forced from office. When women tried to challenge the decision to
keep the issue out of education or politics, they faced humiliation and
discrimination.

My husband remembers a fellow student at the political science faculty at Ankara
University. She was not allowed to sit her exams, therefore could not graduate,
because of her headscarf. She became a housewife. I have interviewed countless
women who say that they were suddenly barred from lecture halls and exams
because the tolerant university rector was replaced or took a harder line.

Some abandoned their studies. Some went abroad if they could afford it. The
daughters of Recep Tayyip Erdogan, the Prime Minister, studied in the United
States. Some come to Britain, where they say they feel comfortable as they are
more tolerated, while others go to Muslim countries to blend in. Others wear
wigs, convincing themselves this is OK because the hair is not their own.

Kubra, an articulate student who took her scarf off every day at the university
gates so that she could finish her law studies, explained how these girls became
very confused by their enforced split identity, some giving up university under
the strain and perceived loss of dignity.

The President's wife, Hayrunnisa Gul, once told me that she had hoped her
daughter would not wear the scarf so she could have an easier ride at
university. But she did, and struggled.

The ban seems only to strengthen the determined. Committed student activists I
met had studied abroad, refusing to uncover. In 1999, when Merve Kavakçi, an
Islamist politician elected for the now-banned Virtue Party, tried to take her
place in parliament, she was shouted down by the PM of the time and hounded from
the place by MPs banging on desks. She was later stripped of her citizenship.
She took her case to the European Court of Human Rights, but this cut no ice. So
she studied in the US, including at Harvard, and is now a high-profile
campaigner for Muslim women's rights.

Officially, Turkey remains as determined as ever to keep covered women in their
place. The ruling Justice and Development Party (AK) was founded by moderate
members who left Virtue and has several well-regarded headscarved women in its
ranks. But it did not dare put one up for election, choosing bare-headed women
instead. An AK attempt to allow university students to keep their scarves was
overturned by the courts. But the party, itself an example that if you ban
something it may get stronger, has many parliamentary wives with headscarves. A
former President refused to invite them to his parties, military brass refused
to shake their hands and outrage was expressed when they appeared in official
photographs.

Say we were to approve of all this in the name of ending what some consider to
be a humiliating practise. By that measure, have Turkish efforts been a success?
Recent surveys show that 60 per cent or so of women now cover their heads. So
no, they have not gone away.

Has the headscarf and even more strict coverings disappeared from Turkish
streets at least? Well, given that a Government with an Islamist history and
many headscarved wives has won two elections, no. The secularists may recoil
when Mrs Erdogan, representing them, is photographed wearing a black scarf and
long black clothing at the Royal Opera House next to Michelle Obama, but their
ban did nothing to prevent that, did it? Women in headscarves are, against the
odds, also achieving prominence in the media and even fashion, where the
designer Rabia Yalcin is well-known, despite a boycott by Turkish glossy mags.

And, as conservative men move up in the world through business, their daughters,
shaped by the internet and television, find they want their share of fun in
Istanbul's hotspots. So where their mothers did not dare to stray, they sashay
about in their designer headscarves and annoy the secularists. "What the hell
are they doing here? Is nowhere safe," said one friend, who is otherwise very
nice, on seeing two covered girls in a trendy venue. But headscarf chic is not
so common, which leaves a large number of women to be pushed out of mainstream
society.

Typically, prohibition supporters don't attack devout Muslim men, whose
unacceptable ideas can be concealed behind a clean shave and a smart suit. Yet
those men may be responsible for their wives' or daughters' headscarves.

From what I have seen, the Turkish ban has penalised women whose decision to
cover up is not negotiable, either because they truly believe or have been
forced by their families. The militants can look after themselves, but others
have been denied a place in the world, an education and a chance to equip
themselves with the tools to make up their own minds.

They are denied a chance to empower themselves and pushed deeper into a society
where they are likely to be downtrodden. So please, don't tell me that banning
the burka would be a step forward for women's rights.

timesonline.co.uk/comment

"A bright student at university was not allowed to sit exams. She left to become
a housewife"

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NATHALIE LEES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Small is not good in the election;
LEADER

BYLINE: Ann Widdecombe

SECTION: LEADER; 13

LENGTH: 145  words


IF AS we expect the election is in early May then it is only 10 weeks before the
campaign proper begins.

This time electors are likely to be faced with a bewildering array of choices as
independents stand in the wake of the expenses scandal and small parties abound.

It might be tempting to vote for an independent or a small party but not if you
really want to change the government. It can also be horribly
counter-productive.

In recent elections it is generally recognised that UKIP has taken votes from
the Conservatives, costing them seats. Result? The most pro-European Government
we have seen with a succession of treaties surrendering Britain's power
culminating in The Lisbon Treaty without a referendum.

If you really want to get rid of Brown there is only one party to vote for and
that is the one that can win. The others are mere distractions from the real
choice.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Apathy among voters will play into Labour's hands

SECTION: LETTERS; 47

LENGTH: 124  words


IT would appear that getting into 'soft touch' Britain is the aim of yet more
economic migrants recently landed on French soil. When will we wake up to the
fact there is the means to change matters to our benefit? It's called a vote.

At the last election, only 60 per cent bothered to vote, which played into the
hands of Labour.

UKIP would hold a referendum on our EU membership. Yet the vast majority of
people who agree with this and other UKIP policies probably won't vote for the
party, if they vote at all, leaving the way clear for one of the major parties
to win.

So the public deserve what they get and until they stop moaning and start voting
for common sense policies, the UK will continue to be in the state it's in.

John Williams, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday

Letter - No2EU proves its worth

LENGTH: 306 words


Everyone has a right to retrospectively criticise the name and agreed programme
of the No2EU - Yes to Democracy electoral challenge in last year's Euro
elections (M Star January 23-24).

However, it is difficult to answer any such criticisms if they are not expressed
and only alluded to as if they are an obvious reality.

The only real concerted criticism I remember came from those - ultra-left or
otherwise - who support EU institutions and treaties or from UKIP for queering
their neoliberal pitch.

Labour movement figures like Tony Benn were happy to appear in the party
political broadcasts and figures such as Alice Mahon spoke at No2EU election
meetings.

Much to the chagrin of the BNP, No2EU also went head to head with the racist
party and attempted to address concerns in working-class areas where no other
party dared to go.

It is this that makes George Galloway's recent ludicrous claim that No2EU let
the BNP win seats even more galling.

Criticisms of the timing of the No2EU project - just five or six months prior to
the Euro elections - also ignore the objective reality at the time. Oil workers
at Lindsey and other power stations were campaigning against social dumping in
their industry in the face of extreme hostility from the right-wing media and
the ultra-left, including the SWP.

The expenses scandal in Parliament had also led to a further collapse of support
for all the main parties in an election notorious for creating strange outcomes.
The alternative was doing nothing.

The clear anti-monopoly, EU-critical policies No2EU - Yes to Democracy put
forward in June last year have stood the test of time as we see in the
anti-democratic edifice created by the Lisbon Treaty being put into place and
the euro falling into a hopefully terminal crisis.

BRIAN DENNY, Former No2EU - Yes to Democracy Eastern region candidate.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 27, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

In a burka you're cutting me off as well as you;
A ban would go too far, but covering the face makes normal human contact
impossible. It is not right for 21st-century life

BYLINE: Alice Thomson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 979 words


Iconfess that I once fell over on the job. In 2001 I was sent near the Pakistan
border to interview fleeing Afghans and the local imam asked me to wear an
extra-large faded blue burka in the refugee camp. I was taken to interview a
woman who had lost five of her six children before managing to walk with her
baby across the mountains to safety.

As she described the pain of losing four daughters and her only son, one by one,
to mines, malnutrition and a motorcycle accident, I couldn't see her anguish.
Until finally, from behind her burka, I heard a sob.

Stuck in my own diaphanous garment, I couldn't communicate, I couldn't even put
an arm out or blink at her, so I stood up and waddled over. But I tripped,
half-blind from the veil and we ended up sprawled on the ground together. I
couldn't see her reaction, but then she started to giggle as we lay like two
penguins, unable to stand up.

That's when I realised that the burka was wrong. It allows for no communication,
no empathy and it's deeply impractical.

In Hyde Park on the only hot day of last summer, I was sitting on a bench in a
pair of shorts, watching my child stalking pigeons with another boy. His mother
sat opposite me in her burka. From her eyes I couldn't tell whether she was
frowning in disgust at my bare legs or smiling as our children squealed. When
her son ran in front of a swing, she sat helpless as I scooped him up. When I
offered her an ice cream, I realised that she couldn't eat it. We had sons the
same age and were both wearing ballet pumps, but we were divided by the piece of
cloth across her face.

Expressions are crucial for human interaction - and it's all in the face. A
two-week-old baby can distinguish between expressions of sadness, happiness and
surprise. Using only 30 facial muscles, an adult can produce 10,000 facial
reactions. The American psychologist Paul Ekman, the author of Emotions
Revealed, explains that our ability to read faces is the key to our
understanding of other people as well as our ability to get on with others.

Professor Peter Butler, who is working on Britain's first face transplant, says
that people can adjust to artificial limbs without losing their sense of
identity, but their face is vital for self-belief: "The face is the first
feature we look at. It's about survival, it's how we work out whether someone
will attack or embrace us. Even sunglasses can create a barrier."

David Blunkett, the former Cabinet minister, says that being blind means that he
has to rely on touch and voice. A burka makes it harder for both sides to touch
or even hear. Take teachers and pupils. When a student of Brandon Robshaw, a
London teacher, turned up for his philosophy A-level class in a burka, he was
horrified. "Discussion and argument are vital," he explains. "Wearing a burka is
like turning up for a ballet lesson in diving boots."

Face time, face-to-face, losing face, all these phrases show how we rely on
scrutinising each other's reactions, as do concerns about Botox and facelifts.
The burka is not an invisibility cloak, it's a passiveaggressive statement, a
rejection of the community. The person wearing it is signalling that either she
or her family wants her to remain apart from society. It implies that wearers
believes that British men may become dangerously lecherous if they see their
faces and that British women are too provocatively clad. Like smoking, wearing a
burka doesn't affect just the wearers, but those around them, who may feel
shunned. With full-body tattoos, face piercing and a hoody, you can still smile
to show that you are a friend.

The Labour MP Ann Cryer, who represents Keighley, West Yorkshire, which has a
large Muslim community, feels strongly that the burka is too inhibiting not just
for communication but also for carrying out practical tasks such as caring for
small children and driving a car. It's not appropriate for 21st-century life. It
turns you from a participant to an observer in the community.

That doesn't mean that Britain should ban the burka in public places. We don't
want the police stripping off women's outer garments in the street. The French
have gone too far by prohibiting the wearing of a full veil on public transport.

But we should make it clear that people should not be allowed to cover their
faces when it impinges on others, That includes women working in schools,
hospitals, courtrooms, shops and the service industries.

Women could wear the burka in private, when travelling and around their
neighbourhood, but the law should send out a message that it is antisocial
behaviour and that when women are paid to communicate with colleagues or the
public they should be expected to take it off.

Tony Blair's commitment to changing what is socially acceptable has had a
lasting effect, as we saw from the Social Attitudes Survey, published yesterday.
He has changed perceptions on gay marriage and adoption, maternity and paternity
leave, domestic violence and smoking.

He could have done the same for burkas. Cherie Blair made it clear what she
thought of them. "If you get to a stage where a woman is not able to express her
personality because you can't see her face, then you have to ask whether this is
something that is actually acknowledging the woman's right to be a person in her
own right," she said.

Yet Mr Blair refused to debate the question. He feared the racism tag. The UK
Independence Party has reinforced those fears by announcing that it wants to ban
the burka. It immediately sounded racist as well as opportunistic, particularly
as it also adds that Muslims are breeding too fast. This sounds like the BNP in
blazers.

This shouldn't be about race, religion - or even feminism. It's about what is
socially acceptable. And covering women's faces was a medieval practice that
should never have been resurrected.

It's not an invisibility cloak, it's a passiveaggressive statement

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MIGRANTS FREED TO HEAD FOR BRITAIN;
French turn blind eye to illegals

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 1

LENGTH: 750  words


THE French set 124 illegal immigrants free yesterday - knowing that last night
most would be on their way to Britain.

The migrants - including 38 children - were arrested after people smugglers
dumped them on a remote beach in Corsica on Friday.

But French judges ruled there were no grounds to keep them in custody.

Last night police sources said the migrants almost all wanted to seek asylum in
"soft-touch" Britain. And a refugee charity admitted the UK is the "obvious"
destination because Britain has an obligation to provide for asylum-seekers,
while France does not.

The group claim to be persecuted Syrian Kurds.

But a detective involved in the arrests said: "Our interpreters suggest many
were typical of the Northern Africans who try to get to Europe every day.

"They are especially interested in the UK because it has a generous record in
dealing with migrants." One of the freed migrants, Chergo, 32, told how he had
boarded the smugglers' boat with his wife and two young children in Tunisia.

He said: "We took a plane from Lebanon to Tunisia with fake passports, fake
visas, then we took a boat. We paid almost GBP 20,000."

Last night there was outrage over the French fiasco.

UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "Once again the French are exporting their
illegal immigration problem to Britain.

"If these are illegal immigrants the French should be sending them back to Syria
or wherever they came from. This shows how the immigration and asylum issue is
out of control, not only in UK but in Europe.

"Britain must regain control of its own borders so that illegal immigrants will
be in no doubt they will be denied entry."

And Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It's shocking that
British taxpayers will now have to foot the bill for these asylum seekers.

"If they were picked up in France they should have been processed there, not
merely shuttled along to the UK.

"The fact that so many asylum seekers are desperate to get to Britain over any
other European nation shows we are a soft touch."

Cimade, a refugees charity, said the Corsican-drop migrants were "free to travel
where they like".

A spokesman added: "All look healthy and are well dressed for the European
winter."

After the arrests the group were flown to cities on mainland France, including
arseille, Lyon and Rennes, in the south.

Yesterday judges ruled that the arrests were illegal because the most basic
procedures - such as offering the migrants representation by a lawyer - had not
been followed.

They were set free. And the French could wash their hands of them.

But claims from police sources that many of the group were from North Africa
have prompted fears that smugglers had opened up a lucrative new route into
Europe.

They 124 migrants discovered last week were each reported to have paid the
smugglers the equivalent of GBP 5,000. But their conditions are likely to have
been poor. Another asylumseeker, Omar, 23, said the group took small boats from
the coast of Tunisia to a petrol tanker which then took them to France.

He said: "There were already people on board the big ship. It was dark. There
was not much to eat or drink and we got wet."

The landing was the largest of its kind since 2001, when around 900 Kurds were
smuggled into France on a rusting container ship that ran aground on the French
Riviera. Last night French Immigration Minister Eric Besson called for an
enquiry into the Corsican "boat people".

He said: "We cannot let the Mediterranean fall into the hands of human
traffickers.

"The first interview by the police did not advance the investigation very far.

"The migrants had clearly been coached about what to say and they revealed very
little.

"They had destroyed all of their identity papers and had thrown away their
mobile phones.

"This shows that the rafficking gang that brought these people to France were
very well organised."

The landing was helped by the fact that a French radar situated on Corsica broke
down on Friday.

Last night Immigration Minister, Phil Woolas said he was liaising with the
French authorities to keep out illegal immigrants.

He said: "Working closely with the French government resulted in UK Border
Agency staff stopping more than 29,000 attempts to cross the Channel illegally
last year.

"Genuine refugees should claim asylum in the first safe country they come to,
and individuals claimin g asylum can be returned to the first EU country in
which they arrived."

As he spoke, most of the 124 migrants were expected to be en route to Channel
ports - and Britain.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Happy to be heading to the UK? A Red Cross bus takes migrants from
Nimes detention centre to a hotel last night
Mothers and babies freed last night in Marseilles

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 26, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: In the fight for Labour's soul, this is the day of reckoning: Will
today bring victory for the old tribalists or the dynamic pluralists? Electoral
reform reaches into the party's bowels

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1074 words


Alitmus test awaits the cabinet when it meets today. Will it push through the
amendment to set a referendum day beyond the next election for introducing the
alternative vote? It's a stand-up-and-be-counted moment, a test of character and
intent for any would-be leader of the Labour party.

To hold a referendum on the alternative vote (AV) is an exceedingly modest
reform: it gives voters the choice of listing their votes in 1, 2, 3 order
instead of putting a simple X. It gives a little more chance to smaller parties
when supporters can vote Green or Ukip, knowing that if their first choice
fails, their vote is transferred to a second-choice backstop to keep out their
most detested main party. It won't be for this election, but for the future -
opening the door a crack to pluralism and choice. For us old campaigners for
proportional representation, who want to make the number of seats more fairly
reflect the votes cast, AV is a poor substitute - but still far better than
nothing. It eases the two-party stranglehold from which voters will be even more
alienated after the unappealing Cameron/Brown contest.

Last October Gordon Brown lobbed into his conference speech a promise to put a
referendum on AV into the manifesto. Frankly, it looked odd coming from the
chief roadblock to reform, who with John Prescott, Jack Straw, Nick Brown and
other reactionary old tribalists stopped Tony Blair's brief flirtation with PR
and Paddy Ashdown. But reformers gladly welcomed his surprise conversion to this
modicum of change. The boldest cabinet reformers - Alan Johnson, Ben Bradshaw,
John Denham, Tessa Jowell and Peter Hain - succeeded in accelerating the plan:
the cabinet agreed to pass a law before the election, paving the way for a
referendum after it.

This sends out a strong friendly signal to the Liberal Democrats. If the
Conservatives win, they would have to repeal the bill to stop a referendum -
embarrassing and probably impossible to get through the Lords. The cabinet
appeared to agree, and Gordon Brown summed up that they had agreed: this would
expose the Tories as anti-reform and anti-choice for voters.

Ed Balls, children's secretary, and Jim Murphy, Scotland secretary, raised
objections: leave it for the manifesto, as this would distract from issues of
more immediate concern to voters. Reformers should have been alerted by the
silence from some fierce opponents - notably the chief whip, Nick Brown. They
set about stirring up their supporters in the party and bending Gordon Brown's
ear: usually the whip's job is to push through cabinet decisions, not to
undermine them. Newsnight's Michael Crick blogs that Balls had a private word
with the prime minister, which he vigorously denies - but many private words
pass between the PM and his chief man.

Balls is angry that the Vote for a Change campaign will this week parade trucks
through his constituency bearing big posters with his face and the slogan"
"Don't be a Block'Ed. Ed Balls talks change but doesn't want you deciding how he
gets his job - Demand a fairer voting system." The trucks will be called off if
Balls urges the cabinet to put the AV amendment today - the last day to get it
into the constitution reform bill.

Jack Straw presented the case to the parliamentary Labour party - some say with
vigour, others say in a Strawish see-how-the-wind-blows kind of way. At that
meeting those who spoke were half against and half for. Nick Brown claims that
shows that legislation on a referendum would split the party: his people reckon
they can chase it back into a meaningless manifesto promise.

Their claim that there is not enough time to get the law through parliament is
resoundingly refuted by its supporters and the Lib Dems. But it can only get
through if cabinet ministers fight to push it hard, right now. When I asked,
other cabinet members sounded suspiciously vague: yes, they definitely support
the principle - but "not sure now is the time", "leave it to the manifesto" and
so on. But if not now, never. Get real: today's Guardian poll tells the same
story as for months: Labour is 11 points behind. What goes in the manifesto may
never happen.

This issue reaches into the bowels of the Labour party, divided between its
worst old characteristics and its best hopes for the future. Electoral reform is
vigorously promoted by the only dynamic thinking parts of the party - the
Fabians, Compass, Left Foot Forward and Progress. The old Nick Brown faction
doesn't run on ideas, it operates machine politics on the Charlie Whelan dark
side, with trade union fixers who fought the internal wars of attrition to put
their man into No 10.

Embracing pluralism would show Labour casting off its worst aspect, willing to
break up the moribund swing between the old duopoly. Full PR means no more safe
seats, no more wasted votes in Old Sarum-style rotten boroughs. AV means the
small risk of losing some seats, but gaining others. In the PLP those who fear
losing out are mainly northern and Scottish MPs, or those - like the Islington
South MP, Emily Thornberry - with a bad Lib Dem council. Narrow calculation of
local self-interest is always most vociferous - but the big picture holds no
fears for Labour.

The cabinet was persuaded by private polling that showed the Lib Dem second
choice vote would split 2:1 in Labour's favour. That should have been the
clincher - though no one wants to make the principled case for reform seem
nothing more than a desperate act of a losing party. Despite the distorting
mirror of its rightwing press, this country has always had an essentially social
democratic majority, split for historic reasons between Labour and the Lib Dems:
Margaret Thatcher never had a majority. On the ground Labour and Lib Dems fight
in elections like rats in a sack: in real life both parties are a motley
coalition each with its rats and each with people who would gladly agree across
the party divide on a raft of good policies. Tribal wars on the centre-left let
Tories win for most of the last century: Labour preferred losing to electoral
reform.

No doubt the Tories will pretend the AV amendment is a gerrymander - but a
referendum leaves it to the people to decide. Cameron plots a monstrous
gerrymander with no referendum, cutting 10% of MPs - which just happen to be
mainly Labour seats. In the short time before May, Labour can still do one
important thing - let people choose a fairer voting system.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

COUNCIL WORKER IN ÊRACIST UKIP' EMAIL PROBE

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 103  words


A COUNCIL job recruitment officer is being investigated after attacking the UK
Independence Party as "Islamophobic" in emails.

Shahhed Boksh, who works at Tower Hamlets Council, criticised the party for
proposing a ban on burkhas.

He said: "I feel that your racist and Islamophobic party is trying to stoke a
religious war on the streets of Britain. Islam is the dominant religion in the
UK. If you don't like it, go live somewhere else." UKIP London MEP Gerard Batten
complained to the council which said: "Any allegations of improper conduct will
be dealt with through the council's established disciplinary processes."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 25, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

The cloak of darkness is no exercise of civil liberties

BYLINE: Yasmin Alibhai-Brown

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 790 words


IT IS gratifying that so many white British liberals have come out to defend
shrouded Muslim women. Their generosity of spirit and messianic belief in
liberty makes them recoil from a state ban on the burka.

France under Sarkozy is set to take this step to be followed swiftly, I am sure,
by some other EU countries. In Egypt too, top theologian, Sheikh Tantawi, of
al-Azhar university is pushing for an anti-burka injunction, and Turkey remains
ferociously divided over the militant secularism instated by its founding
fathers.

Here, we are reassured, such a ban would be impossible. OK, the bonkers UKIP lot
and rabid BNP bang on about it; noisy nuisances, easily ignored. Liberals say it
just isn't British to prohibit and limit the personal choices of freeborn
citizens.

Really? The British never accept any curtailment of individual preferences? So
how has it come to pass that in this green and free land, we have more state
surveillance and imposed restrictions and regulations than any other EU country
? Why, we can't even take snaps in the streets without a hand of authority
falling on the shoulder. Could it be that authoritarianism is not resisted
because the British are naturally obedient, following social rules and legal
sanctions? From queuing, to drink-drive laws, most of us do what is expected. We
surrender personal autonomy, sometimes for reasons that are clearly for the
greater good - the anti-smoking laws - and sometimes because our rulers, like
all rulers, wish to grab more power.

Naturists would love, I'm sure, to wander down Oxford Street, just
window-shopping of course. They can't, because for most people that would be too
much out there. Women in the full burka are the other side of that same coin.
They give too little out there and, using passive violence, disconnect from the
humanity around them.

Then the creed of liberalism, that passion for freedom and choice which sustains
and vitalises Western civilisations. Ever more precious and fragile in today's
world, I can see why it must be honoured and sheltered from the armies of
repression.

However does liberalism have any duty to those who use liberal values as weapons
to promote illiberalism? Is it obliged to become a suicide bomber, to
self-destruct to prove itself?

We Muslims worldwide are engaged in ideological struggles against the Saudi
Wahabis who have the cash and cunning to lure disenchanted middle-class and
impoverished, powerless Muslims into their caves, where light itself fears to
enter. Yet some liberal Westerners take dilettante positions on freedom because
their own lives are unaffected. Instead of standing with modernists, the
staunchest defenders of freedom, they defect to the enemy. The retrogressive
Muslim Council of Britain is now back in bed with the Government.

You people who support the "freedom" to wear the burka, do you think anorexics
and drug addicts have the right to choose what they do? This covering makes
women invisible, invalidates their participatory rights and confirms them as
evil temptresses. Does it stop men from raping them? Does it mean they have more
respect in the home and enclaves? Like hell it does. I feel the same fury when I
see Orthodox Jewish women in wigs, with their many children, living tightly
proscribed lives.

Progressive Muslims come out daily against the burka, and against mothers who
bind and swaddle their young girls in preparation for their eventual
incarceration which they will accept without a cry - both un-Islamic customs.
Yes, the burka will be used by racists against us. But while fighting racism we
cannot allow ourselves to become apologists for another, abhorrent injustice.

I also understand that as society becomes less restrained, fear makes Muslims
opt for separation. Used as a political protest, veils have potency - but the
price is too high. Farzana Hassan of the Muslim Canadian Congress wants the
burka banned because gender equality is non-negotiable. British Muslims for
Secular Democracy (of which I am chair) are against a ban but do support
restrictions in key public spaces, and point out that during the Haj pilgrimage
no woman covers her face, that the burka makes women more, not less,
conspicuous, and that communication is unequal because one party hides all
expression.

On Thursday a woman in the cloak of darkness got off the Tube train and stepped
on some toes as she rushed. The looks that followed, pure hatred, and then the
mutters, some from other Asians: "Stupid women, giving us all a bad name. They
should send them back." Others joined in. It was awful. I felt for her and
against her for living in darkness, and for her effect on the easily
destabilised social environment and on the faith I hold dear.

y.alibhai-brown@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                January 24, 2010

British pair 'tricked' into Hungary jail: Relatives fear for the health of duo
who voluntarily flew to Budapest after a European arrest warrant

BYLINE: Nick Thorpe

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME PAGES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 759 words


Two bedraggled fir trees, still wreathed in tinsel and pathetic decorations,
grace the kerb opposite the remand block of Unit 3, Budapest prison, in a dreary
suburb of the Hungarian capital.

Each day, relatives and friends of inmates gather there to shout messages, send
elaborate hand signals and curse or bless the figures at the distant windows.
The inmates include two British businessmen: Michael Turner, 27, from Corfe
Castle, Dorset, and Jason McGoldrick, 37, from Plymouth. They stand accused of
defrauding 134 customers of a total of £ 18,000 in a Budapest time-share scheme
that went wrong six years ago.

The sums owed to individual creditors are small, but the cumulative effect led
Hungarian prosecutors to issue European arrest warrants for the two men last
August. On 2 November, they voluntarily flew to Budapest, expecting to appear in
court. Instead, they were handcuffed and thrown into jail.

Allowed only one hour of exercise a day, one shower a week, and one visit by
relatives a month, they have been interviewed only once by police in more than
80 days' detention.

Hungary's criminal justice system is tough, bureaucratic and notoriously slow.
Under the penal code, the two could be held up to two years without being
charged.

"Michael is feeling isolated, distressed and betrayed," said Mark Turner, who
runs the Castle Inn in Corfe and has visited his son twice in prison. "The
clothes are hanging off him and he talks in monosyllables, as though he is
forgetting how to speak. He says the guards shout at them all the time." After
complaints from the Turner family, the prison authorities now allow a consular
official from the British embassy and a local priest to see Michael and Jason,
who are kept apart from each other.

Lawyers for the two say the Hungarian authorities misled Westminster
magistrates' court into granting extradition, by giving the impression that the
prosecution case was ready, and that they were going to Hungary to stand trial.

The European arrest warrant (EAW) was conceived in the shocked atmosphere after
the attacks on the World Trade Centre in New York on 11 September, 2001. In
Britain, it came into force in 2004.

Designed to fast-track suspects of serious crime and terrorism to face trial,
critics say it is being used instead for comparatively minor cases, bypassing
traditional safeguards, and leaving citizens of one country at the mercy of
criminal procedures in another. More than 9,000 EAWs were issued Europe-wide in
2007.

"The warrant is an ill-thought-out, ill-considered and inappropriate piece of
law, and now needs to be looked at again," said Lord Dartmouth, a member of the
European parliament for south-west England for Ukip. He visited Budapest last
week to express his concerns to the authorities.

"I was treated with exemplary courtesy. . . but that is hardly the point," he
said after a visit to the prison. "They were extradited on the basis that they
were going to be prosecuted, and in fact what is happening is that the . . .
authorities are gathering evidence."

The Hungarian side deny the British complaint that they misused the extradition
procedure: "Hungarian law is in complete harmony with the framework proposal of
the European commission governing the issuing of the European arrest warrant,"
said Gabriella Skoda, a spokeswoman for the metropolitan prosecutor's office in
Budapest. "In Hungary, you can issue a European arrest warrant at the
investigation stage, without charges being issued by the prosecution."

According to article 1, paragraph 1 of the framework decision of the European
commission, warrants should be issued "for the purposes of conducting a criminal
prosecution or executing a custodial sentence or detention order".

As hopes fade of either release or an early trial, the men's best hope appears
to be to persuade the Hungarian judge at the next remand hearing on 5 February
to grant them one of the forms of house arrest that exist under Hungarian law.
Attempts by their Hungarian lawyers to have them released on bail have foundered
on the prosecutor's insistence that they might abscond or interfere with
witnesses.

If the men are eventually found innocent, they could claim substantial damages
from the Hungarian state, but only at the end of a legal road that stretches far
beyond the wintry horizon.

Captions:

Mark Turner, landlord of the Castle Inn in Corfe, with his son Michael, who has
been held in prison for 80 days.

Photograph by Sally Adams/BNPS

Jason McGoldrick, from Plymouth, flew to Budapest on the understanding that he
would appear in court.


LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 24, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Banning the burqa is simply not British

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1300 words


'A s I was once strolling through the inner city, I suddenly happened upon an
apparition in a long caftan with black hair locks. Is this a Jew? was my first
thought... but the longer I stared... the more my first question was transformed
into a new conception: is this a German?" That is the passage from Mein Kampf in
which Adolf Hitler describes how, walking as a student through the less
salubrious streets of Vienna, he had suddenly understood the true threat that
the Jews presented to the Germanic way of life. I hadn't read those words since
I was a student, but somehow they returned to my mind last week, prompted by the
UK Independence party's announcement that it would campaign to "ban the burqa".

This is not to say that Lord Pearson, UKIP's new leader, is a figure in the
Hitler mould. Far from it. Having met Pearson on more than one occasion, I know
him to be a civilised and considerate person. Yet in attempting to gain market
share from the British National party in the run-up to the general election,
Pearson is indulging in a lethally dangerous form of identity politics; and in
his claims to be standing up for "British values", the UKIP leader is in fact
trashing them.

Pearson declared last week: "We are not Muslim-bashing, but this [the wearing of
the burqa] is incompatible with Britain's values of freedom and democracy."
First of all, he absolutely is "Muslim-bashing" - it's of a piece with his
gratuitous remarks in his first interview as party leader that "the Muslim
population is rocketing; their birth rate is much higher than ours". (In that
Vienna passage from Mein Kampf, Hitler used the same old "they're outnumbering
us" tactic: "Especially the inner city and the areas north of the Danube canal
swarmed with a people who even externally no longer bore a similarity to
Germans.") Second, how is it compatible with "Britain's values of freedom and
democracy" to use the force of the state to prevent a small number of
law-abiding women from wearing an item of clothing they regard as part of their
religious observance, and to arrest them on the streets if they persist in
exercising their conscience in a way that harms nobody? On Thursday's edition of
Newsnight, confronted by a formidably articulate female Muslim student (who was
not wearing a burqa), Pearson tried a different tack. The burqa, he claimed, was
"oppressive to women" and should be banned for that reason. His interlocutor was
magnificent in her incredulity: "So we should criminalise women in order to
empower them? Send them to jail to free them?" She might also have noted that
UKIP's sudden embrace of feminism is desperately insincere: it seemed to have no
problem with its MEP Godfrey Bloom when he declared that the problem with women
in this country was that they didn't clean behind the fridge properly.

There are legitimate feminist arguments against the wearing of burqas: that it
enforces the idea that women should be ashamed of revealing themselves in
public, and that it is a pseudo-religious manifestation of male prejudice
against women; but it is absurd-morally and legally-to force women to be
feminist against their wishes. It may be that there are some British women
wearing the burqa not because they want to, but because they are forced to. I
suspect this would be a nugatory minority of a minority; buthowwould the law
establish which of thesewomenwere wearing the burqa as "an act of oppression"?
Presumably their husbands or parents would have to be arrested as well.

Does UKIP - and those who support its proposition-think that there is so little
genuine crime in this country that the police would welcome this as some way of
filling up empty cells? It would be analogous to the legislative fiasco of the
banning of hunting with hounds, which occurred largely because Labour MPs
regarded as deeply offensive the sight of the English gentry dressed in red
charging around on horses - exactly as offensive as Pearson and his colleagues
find the sight of women in full veil on British streets.

In effect, UKIP, which purports to be a libertarian party as far removed as
possible from new Labour busybodyism, is appealing to the same lamentable
culture of offence to which this government has so shamelessly pandered.

As Shami Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, recently pointed out, this
"political and legislative culture that conflates irritation, offence, alarm and
distress has promoted a general fear of difference and dissent".

One could see a glimpse of this effect on the national character during BBC1's
Question Time last week, when the mooted burqa ban was discussed. A member of
the audience declared that she was "intimidated" by the sight of burqas. Cue
sympathetic nods from the panellists. Since it is not done for politicians to
show irritation with any member of the studio audience, no matter how inane the
remark, none of them said what needed to be said: get a grip, woman, and if you
are genuinely terrified of your neighbour because she is wearing a full veil,
see a psychiatrist about your unusual phobia.

Perhaps, however, this woman had merely been reading Pearson's letter in The
Times the previous day, in which he warned darkly that "one of the 21/7 bombers
escaped wearing the burqa: the hidden face can also hide a terrorist". That's
right: any of those veiled women you see on the high street - I'm not speaking
from experience, but then I live in East Sussex- may not just be buying
groceries; they may instead be casing the area to see which shops would be
easiest to blow up. On the other hand, if they were not wearing the full veil,
then the neighbourhood would be safer, since we might (according to Pearson's
reasoning) be able to tell by staring at their uncovered face whether or not
they were a terrorist.

This is, again, absurd, even if you believe that the true purpose of UKIP's
policy is to prevent Islamist terrorism; in fact, its purpose is much less
constructive-to channel the fear of it in the pursuit of votes.

Nicolas Sarkozy, so transparently a mountebank, is attempting a similar burqa
ban in France; it follows the banning of all "ostentatious" religious emblems,
including the veil, from schools and public buildings. France, however, since
its bloody revolution, has had a determinedly anti-clerical political culture,
regarding religion as something that has no place whatever in the public realm.
That is not the British way; we evolved - not least as a result of our own
historical experience - a much more tolerant approach to open expressions of
religious difference, whichcan besummarised by the phrase "live and let live".

Christians in this country understand this well, which is why a ComRes poll last
week reported that 85% of self-described Christians agreed that, whatever your
faith, the law should protect the right to wear its symbols, provided they do
not harm others. If the would-be populists of UKIP think that the average
British churchgoer would be enthused by the attempt to stamp out the visible
manifestations of a minority's adherence to Islam, in effect to criminalise
religious conscience, they are much mistaken.

In fact, they don't even carry their own party united behind the new policy. One
online UKIP forum contains the following comment from a party member: "This call
to ban the burqa is simply pandering to those who might just vote BNP. I think
in future we as frontline members will now find it a touch more difficult to
convince the public that we are not the BNP in blazers."

Precisely so; and it would be nothing less than UKIP's leadership deserves.
Shame on you, Lord Pearson. You have betrayed the very British principles of
freedom and liberty that your party swears to defend.

dominic.lawson@sunday-times.co.uk

'UKIP IS CHANNELLING THE FEAR OF TERRORISM IN THE PURSUIT OF VOTES'

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 24, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Julia Hartley-Brewer

BYLINE: Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: NEWS; 27

LENGTH: 51  words


UKIP has called for a ban on the burkha. I believe the burkha is an affront to
modern, liberal, democratic society but I don't want to ban women from wearing
what they want. If, as some Muslim men claim, women should cover themselves up
out of modesty before Allah, why don't the men cover their faces too?

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday

QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 965 words


On Saturday

ACTION MAN DES GETS A VERY ICY RECEPTION

OUR MPs are often in hot water -- but not Desmond Swayne, parliamentary private
secretary to David Cameron.

Keep-fit fanatic Swayne likes to swim in the outdoor Serpentine, in Hyde Park,
and was cross one recent morning to find his way barred by 'health and safety'.

'It was 6.30am, still dark, with a good crust of ice on the water,' barks
Swayne, a military-minded sort who has served in Iraq as a major in the
Territorials.

'To be honest, it's pretty horrid swimming at this time of year, but I cover a
quarter of a mile when it's above 40 degrees, an eighth of a mile when it's
below 40. I do it because it's there.

'The park authorities were apparently worried because the previous day one or
two people had walked on the ice. So what? There has been swimming in the
Serpentine since the days of Queen Caroline. If it's wintry we just bash a hole
in the ice and leap in.'

Parliamentary questions were put down, demanding to know why the Serpentine had
been closed. Swayne and his fellow lunatics have now been assured that swimming
will never again be prevented. The Serpentine water babies have been given their
own key and effectively told to do what they want.

Swayne did once wear wet-suit gear for his morning constitutional, but a
visiting dignitary from St Petersburg, Russia, told him not to be such a sissy.
He now swims in nothing more than a pair of shrivelled skimpies.

He is not the only Tory MP to partake in a morning dip. Edward Leigh, chairman
of the Public Accounts Committee, can also be found at the Serpentine most
mornings, once he has attended to his holy devotions at Brompton Oratory. Mr
Leigh is often teased for having a bright red face, but I am told that when he
emerged from the water the other morning, he had a distinctly blue tinge.

FOREIGN Office minister Lady Kinnock dropped a brick this week by disclosing
that the Government was unable to maintain its budgets on counterterrorism. Too
honest, Glenys! Downing Street (ie Gordon) is hopping up and down with rage. The
inexperienced Lady Kinnock may have a bigshot husband, but it would be a bold
punter who gambled on her remaining on Labour's front bench after the election.

TO THE first night of The Little Dog Laughed at the Garrick theatre. A woman
near the front row of the stalls shrieked -- 'yeurrgh!' -- when actor Harry
Lloyd bared his bottom. Why the surprise, my dear? Male nudity is now
practically de rigueur on the West End stage. It's far more a cause for
astonishment when they actually keep their clothes on.

A PARTY TOO FAR?

A MIXED week for snake-hipped psychotherapist Cecilia d'Felice, who often pops
up on telly to advise us how to look after ourselves. Glamour-pants Cecilia
(pictured) threw a tremendous party to celebrate a triple whammy: her son's 21st
birthday, her engagement to be married, and the publication of her book Dare To
Be You. It was like an airkissing Olympics. Lashings of ginger beer, too.

Alas! The party at Kettner's restaurant was so exciting that directly it was
over she collapsed with exhaustion and was stretchered to hospital in Chelsea,
where she has spent several days recuperating. Now that's what we call a party.

WILL Gordon Brown take along his bodyguards when he gives evidence to the Iraq
Inquiry? Tony Blair, as Prime Minister, was accompanied into the Hutton Inquiry
by his burly minders. I recall that one of them -- a bald bloke who looked like
a wrestler -- stood throughout the evidence session.

Mr Brown's bodyguards will find the Iraq Inquiry cramped. The room is not much
bigger than a Commodore cabin on Brittany Ferries. There are few chairs. So the
standing trick may need to be repeated.

Meanwhile, I hear the PM gave aides the slip the other day. He and his memsahib
and offspring managed to escape Downing Street for an unescorted walk in St
James's Park. Good for them, even if they set off momentary panic at No10 when
their absence was discovered.

NOW SQUEAKER'S ON THE SCROUNGE

DOWN at Speaker's House, John Bercow is polishing his begging bowl. At the
General Election he faces a potentially tricky challenge in his Buckingham seat
from UKIP's Nigel Farage (who has vowed to visit every pub in the constituency
-- though he does not say how many times).

Squeaker Bercow has started raising funds to fight off the Farage threat. An
outfit called The Friends of John Bercow has been created, complete with
chairman and secretary, and hopes to raise 640,000. Not a small sum. What is
troubling is the suggestion, put to me by a recipient of a pleading letter from
camp Bercow, that the Speaker's Office at Westminster is being used for the
fund-raising effort.

My source asked where the 'Friends of John Bercow' had got his name. 'Speaker's
House', came the blithe reply. My Deep Throat was also invited to a drinks party
by the Speaker.

A call yesterday morning to the Friends of John Bercow (is that plural a matter
of fact or an aspiration?) was not returned.

DEFENCE Minister Lady Taylor was asked this week to give a breakdown of the age
of the RAF's transport and tanker aircraft. The largest category was those 'more
than 40 years old'. The ability of RAF engineers to keep ancient aircraft in the
skies is greatly to be praised. But when did we last see ministers being driven
round in H-reg Vauxhall Vivas?

WHEN SPIN GETS STEAMY

MY QUIET time this week was devoted to reading Alastair Campbell's new novel,
which I am reviewing for The Oldie. Nero's verdict will have to wait for that
magazine's pages. For the moment let us simply say that the Iraq dossier may not
have been the only thing to be 'sexed up'. Mr Campbell's fiction has a passage
of hilariously steamy horizontal PT, complete with ripping of silk. His early
days writing for the erotic journal Forum were plainly not wasted.

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Time to admit migrants are still in the UK

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 638  words


PRESSURE was last night growing on the Government to come clean over the number
of eastern Europeans living in the UK after doubt was cast on claims that half
have returned home.

Official figures say nearly half of the estimated 1.5million mainly Polish
migrants who came to the UK after 2004 have gone back, and that the flow home
increased with the onset of the recession.

But yesterday a Polish migration expert said only a tiny fraction had actually
gone back because the situation in Poland was even worse.

Many prefer to "sit out" the recession in the UK by living on benefits.

Professor Krystyna Iglicka said: "From our side this is not true. We do not see
them here. We do not see them in other countries."

Borders and Immigration Minister Phil Woolas yesterday said there were "about
700,000" eastern European migrants in Britain with "most" working.

But last night there were growing calls for the Government to try to get a grip
on immigration.

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "It's about time that the Government collected some
accurate figures on how many foreign, including EU, nationals are working in the
UK and using our benefits system. Until we know the truth how can anybody find a
solution?

"Not collecting this information suggests that the Government is frightened of
the facts."

Eastern Europeans are reckoned to make up about one per cent of the population
of Scotland's cities, but a substantial number have settled in rural areas such
as Perth and Kinross, Angus, and Aberdeenshire.

Estimates of Poles currently in Scotland range from about 40,000 to 50,000,
according to the General Register Office for Scotland. About 5,000 settled in
the Highlands region.

Sir Andrew Green, of MigrationWatch UK said: "Even the minister's own estimate
is 10 times the number the Government said would come from the whole of eastern
Europe when they opened their borders."

Up to 1.5million workers came to the UK from the so-called A8 countries -
Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and
Slovenia - after they joined the EU in 2004 and gained access to the British
labour market.

Ministers used Office of National Statistics figures to reassure the public that
at least half have gone home.

But the Polish Central Statistical Office says the number of Poles working
abroad fell only slightly in 2008.

Professor Iglicka said: "For the year 2008 we have very hard statistics giving
us the number of 22,000 Poles who came back from migration, mainly the UK and
Ireland."

There are still one million Poles in Britain, Professor Iglicka said. While some
did go home, many have returned to the UK, says Polish recruitment consultant
Ania Heasley.

"They believe it is better to sit out the recession in a richer country than in
Poland, " she said.

Mr Woolas last night claimed the Government was listening to the public's
concerns on immigration.

He said: "The number of eastern Europeans coming here is falling and statistics
show that migrants are coming to the UK for a short period of time to work,
contribute to the economy and then return home."

WAGES DRIVEN DOWN

THE INFLUX of 1.5million eastern Europeans has driven down UK wages, a report by
the equalities watchdog found. In poorer parts of the country the only new jobs
are low-skilled and likely to be taken by migrants, the Equalities and Human
Rights Commission said.

THE RESEARCH found eastern Europeans suffered less unemployment than Britons and
received bigger pay rises because of their "excellent work ethic".

THE BIGGEST impact on towns was the need for local services to adapt to
increases in population and large numbers of non-English speakers, the study
said.

A SEPARATE report by the Centre for Research and Analysis of Migration found the
average hourly wage of eastern Europeans was GBP 6.80 compared with GBP 11.90
for native-born workers.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Coachloads of eastern Europeans arriving at Victoria station in London
at the height of the influx and, inset, Professor Krystyna Iglicka, believes
most are still here

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 23, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Exposed: Great lie about fed-up Poles flooding back home

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 5

LENGTH: 744  words


PRESSURE was last night growing on the Government to come clean over the number
of eastern Europeans living in the UK after doubt was cast on claims that half
have returned home.

Official figures say nearly half of the estimated 1.5million mainly Polish
migrants who came to the UK after 2004 have gone back, and that the flow home
increased with the onset of the recession.

But yesterday a Polish migration expert said only a tiny fraction had actually
gone back because the situation in Poland was even worse.

Many preferred to "sit out" the recession in Britain - often relying on
benefits.

Professor Krystyna Iglicka said: "From our side this is not true. We do not see
them here. We do not see them in other countries."

Borders and Immigration Minister Phil Woolas yesterday said there were "about
700,000" eastern European migrants in Britain with "most" working. But last
night there were growing calls for the Government to try to get a grip on
immigration.

UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "It's about time that the Government collected
some accurate figures on how many foreign, including EU, nationals are working
in the UK and using our benefits system.

"Until we know the truth how can anybody find a solution?

"Not collecting this information suggests that the Government is frightened of
the facts."

Former Home Office minister and Daily Express columnist Ann Widdecombe said: "On
what is the Government basing their claims?

They must tell us the truth."

Sir Andrew Green, of think-tank MigrationWatch UK said: "Even the minister's own
estimate is 10 times the number the Government said would come from the whole of
eastern Europe when they opened their borders to the new member states of the
EU.

"But the Poles are a distraction from the impact of mass migration for our
country. Only 10 per cent of the foreign-born population in the UK were born in
these eastern European countries."

Up to 1.5million workers came to the UK from the so-called A8 countries -
Poland, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, Slovakia, Hungary, the Czech Republic and
Slovenia - after they joined the EU in 2004 and gained access to the British
labour market.

Ministers have used Office for National Statistics figures to reassure the
public that at least half have since gone home. But findings from the Polish
Central Statistical Office appear to contradict them. They show the number of
Poles working abroad fell only slightly in 2008.

Professor Iglicka said: "For the year 2008 we have very hard statistics giving
us the number of 22,000 Poles who came back from migration, mainly the UK and
Ireland, and registered to apply for benefits."

There are still one million Poles in Britain, Professor Iglicka said, with the
number of workers from other A8 states pushing this figure higher still. While
some migrants did go home, many have returned to the UK because job prospects in
Poland are even worse, according to UK-based Polish recruitment consultant Ania
Heasley.

"Relatively few have returned to Poland, " she said.

"Some went back to Poland at the end of 2008 and the beginning of 2009 but quite
a few of them are back here because they believe it is better to sit out the
recession in a richer country than in Poland."

Mr Woolas last night claimed the Government was listening to the public's
concerns on immigration. He said: "We have listened to the British people and
have made huge changes to the immigration system, banning lowskilled workers
from outside Europe and tightening the criteria for highly skilled migrants.

"The number of eastern Europeans coming here to work is falling and statistics
show that migrants are coming to the UK for a short period of time to work,
contribute to the economy and then return home."

WAGES DRIVEN DOWN

THE INFLUX of 1.5million eastern Europeans has driven down UK wages, a report by
the equalities watchdog found. In poorer parts of the country the only new jobs
are low-skilled and likely to be taken by migrants, the Equalities and Human
Rights Commission said.

THE RESEARCH found eastern Europeans suffered less unemployment than Britons and
received bigger pay rises because of their "excellent work ethic".

THE BIGGEST impact on towns was the need for local services to adapt to
increases in population and large numbers of non-English speakers, the study
said.

A SEPARATE report by the Centre for Research and Analysis of Migration found the
average hourly wage of eastern Europeans was GBP 6.80 compared with GBP 11.90
for native-born workers.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Coachloads of eastern Europeans arriving at Victoria station in London
at the height of the influx and, inset, Polish expert Professor Krystyna
Iglicka, who believes most are still here

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 22, 2010 Friday

Thirsk man is Ukip candidate

SECTION:

LENGTH: 43 words


JOHN Boakes, of Kirby Knowle, near Thirsk, has been chosen as UK Independence
Party's prospective parliamentary candidate for the Thirsk andMalton seat.

The 62-year-old has a business background, gaining managerial positions in the
region, including with Tesco.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Europe will still trade with us even if we leave the EU

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 91  words


HOW I agree with Leo McKinstry that government waste is staggering ("Times will
be hard because the state is wasting billions", January 21).

What frightens me most is that the Conservatives won't give us a vote on
quitting EU, which many of us want to happen. There's no chance that the rest of
Europe would refuse to trade with us, as we buy far more from them than they buy
from us, and we're one market they don't want to lose.

My greatest fear is that many people will vote UKIP, thus watering down the Tory
vote.

Dave Bradley, Godalming, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 22, 2010 Friday 7:05 PM GMT

Britain and the EU: time for a divorce

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 789 words


It may well be that Mr Cameron regards any discussion of the EU as "banging on
about Europe", but here in the Telegraph blogosphere - to judge from the over
350 comments on my last blog post -  it does seem to be a matter of some
interest.

However, I should first say to Gary 4 that I certainly did NOT tell people "to
get on their bikes", I am not, and never have been a "Monday Club politican",
although I see nothing shameful in being one.  After all, it is not like being a
Fabian. Nor have I ever urged people to vote UKIP.

On the other hand, ZigZag says he cannot understand the logic behind my view on
the EU since he thinks that "the English are just a European Nation" and "the EU
is simply an institution to which most European nations belong".

So let me explain. The English are, of course, a European nation, but we are
different by virtue of our history from  the others. And I suppose that at this
stage I should come clean about my own background.

Yes, we are all immigrants, since during the depth of the most recent ice age
Britain was not inhabited by man. Even since the land bridge to the mainland was
submerged there have been a good number of new arrivals, not least the
Scandanavians, Romans, and Normans. My paternal forebears probably arrived here
sometime in the 16th century from the continental lowlands. Indeed had they not
got on their bikes, so to speak, I might have been born a Belgian. Happily they
passed the cricket test with flying colours and integrated into the East Anglian
turnip taleban of their time.

They, and most of us who came here until recent times, adopted the history and
culture of England and the English. We were much infuenced by the  Scandinavian
practice of the folk moot, wherein lie some of our democratic ideas and which
had a part in the thinking which led to Magna Carta.

It saddens me that in the bastardised ruins of what was once an educational
system even children taught the importance of what happened at Runnymede are
often told that the barons forced King John to grant rights, such as free
speech, freedom from arbitrary arrest and  imprisonment and the right to a fair
trial. No, not quite so. The King was forced to sign a declation that he would
not interefere with, nor abridge, those rights which were were the inherent
rights of English freemen (and women too, Harriet) according to rank.

Our fellow Europeans may well enjoy similar rights, but they are rights which
have their origins in constitutions and laws.  The right of a German or
Frenchman to free speech is a grant by law - essentially an entitlement rather
than a right. Here, it requires a law to set limits upon that right, which in
this Kingdom is (I'm sorry Professor Dawkins) the God-given right of an
Englishman or woman from birth.

What I discovered during many days (and not a few nights) negotiating and
dealing around the table in Brussels was that my colleagues were, with a few
wonderful exceptions such as Count Otto von Lamsdorff, not just corporatist by
nature, but inclined to the unspoken assumption that man was made for the state
rather than that the state was made for man. At its worst, that became an
assumption that whilst the citizen must obey the law and his rights were limited
by the scope of the law, the state could do whatever was not specifically
forbiden to it.

The basic assumptions underlying the two systems of law, English Common law and
European law, are such that they cannot exist side by side. While we are members
of the EU as it is constructed today, wherever the two clash  on a matter within
European competence, European law is superior.

Nor is it just a matter of law. Our history has shaped our society to be
different. We have suffered no invasion nor conquest since 1066 and no civil
wars, revolutions nor military dictators since Cromwell's time, and we have
stopped one attempt after another to create a pan-European state. Philip of
Spain, Napoleon, Hitler and Stalin have all been frustrated by the people of
these islands. In short, we have form as a destructive force against European
political and military union.

Churchill was right. We should wish European union well - so long as it does not
seek to cross the Channel. Certainly I have no ill will towards our friends on
the mainland, but I think it is time the British dog got out of the federalist
manger. I could live happily on the mainland as a foreigner. I believe that we
should have a treaty relationship with other European nations covering matters
of mutual interest, but that our Parliament should remain fully sovereign.

Divorce is never easy, but it may be better than persisting in an unhappy
marriage. The question should not be whether we part, but what sort of
relationship would follow.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Banning veils is not an option;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 292 words


Sir, Lord Pearson of Rannoch (letter, Jan 20) could not be more wrong. Airport
authorities consistently check the identity of women wearing a veil by asking
them to lift the garment when going through airport security. They do so with
full co-operation of the women involved, and rightfully so. Failures in this
regard demand an investigation into airport security, not women who happen to
wear a veil. Terrorism has as much to do with Islam as Abu Ghraib does with
Western culture; there is not a single ideological outlook in the world that
hasn't been abused to justify atrocities.

Sharia, or Islamic law, is a complex set of legal maxims which, while requiring
inspired and enlightened application, can hardly be described as "gender
apartheid". Historically, Muslim women have been an integral and active part of
Islamic civilisation, partaking in business transactions, such as the Prophet's
own wife Khadija, participating in battle like Aicha or founding centres of
Islamic learning, such as the University of al-Karaouine, established in 859 by
Fatima al-Fihri. While the vast majority of Muslims shun the face veil and a
number of scholars do not consider it to be a requirement of Muslim dress,
Britain is ruled by a liberal system of law, not an Islamic one.

Banning the face veil is not an option if Britain aims to remain a liberal
country that cherishes its individual freedom and revels in the richness
diversity brings to our nation. UKIP and its BNP kindred spirits are symptomatic
of a societal malaise that requires us to fight back all together against
ignorance, discrimination and hate, and not sink into the defensive posture of
rejection that their vitriolic discourse feeds on.

myriam françois-cerrah Oxford University Islamic Society

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 22, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Will you be up for Balls? Tories and BNP aim for prize election scalp;
The Schools Secretary has been accused of seeking the anti-immigrant vote as he
tries to prevent defeat in West Yorkshire, writes Sam Coates

BYLINE: Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1231 words


Ed Balls has been accused of wooing the anti-immigrant vote in his new
constituency as he fights to remain an MP in the face of a resurgent
Conservative Party and one of the highest BNP memberships in the country.

The Tories have made defeating the Schools Secretary a priority, hoping for an
upset similar to the ousting of Michael Portillo in 1997 on a 17.4 per cent
swing to Labour. The fall of Mr Portillo in Enfield Southgate became a defining
moment of that election and the title of a book by Brian Cathcart: Were You
Still Up for Portillo? The Tories need a 12.3 per cent swing to take Morley and
Outwood, which Mr Balls will fight after his current seat, Normanton, is
abolished. They believe that they will be helped by declining Labour support, Mr
Balls's "Marmite" character and improvements in their own campaign. At the very
least, they hope, their efforts will tie down Gordon Brown's closest adviser
during the campaign.

Mr Balls, who is expected to run for the Labour leadership if the party is
defeated, is visiting the West Yorkshire constituency every week. The Unite and
Unison unions are helping to fund his campaign and he is arranging ministerial
visits to nearby schools, paid for by public money.

But the party arousing the most interest locally is the BNP. Figures, including
Keith Robinson, the president of Morley Chamber of Commerce, said that they
understood why the farright candidate was popular.

In response, Mr Balls is taking on local immigration concerns. But he is risking
accusations of "dogwhistle politics" for issuing "immigration surveys" to local
residents and holding local meetings focused on the issue.

A visit to the constituency by The Times found widespread sympathy for the BNP,
despite the small number of foreign immigrants in the area compared with
neighbouring Dewsbury, Bradford and Leeds. Many were happy to speak about their
admiration for the party's local tactics.

"A lot of people see Chris Beverley (the Morley South BNP councillor running
against Mr Balls) as an upright citizen who cares for the issues of the town,"
said Mark Robinson, who runs Cucina Café. "He never talks about race and has
been very clever about assisting in the town, shopping for elderly people during
the snow, which is what people like." He did not say how he would vote, even
though Mr Balls regularly eats in his restaurant.

Mr Balls's immigration survey, similar to leaflets used by Labour in the West
Midlands, works by promoting existing party policy in the form of a
questionnaire. "Do you support the updating of our immigration laws so that
migrants who want to settle here must learn to speak English, YES or NO or NOT
SURE", it asks.

Or whether "a probationary period should be passed before they are able to claim
state benefits" and if "the Australian points-based system will be good for our
area".

This is balanced with a question asking when immigration is acceptable. "Do you
think that people with high levels of skills such as computer specialists,
doctors, etc, should be able to come to this country if there are job vacancies
that can't be filled?" BNP membership information, leaked in 2008, revealed that
the Morley area had 90 members of the farright party, the highest number of any
constituency. Morley Town Council has two BNP members.

One senior Tory said that the leaflet was the sign of a "dogwhistle" campaign,
comparing it with Michael Howard's 2005 "Are you thinking what I'm thinking"
election campaign.

But Jon Cruddas, the Labour MP for Dagenham, who leads the party's campaigns
against the BNP, defended the tactics. "The 'Are you thinking what I'm thinking'
Tory campaign was pernicious because it simply called for an emotive reaction.
The right way to campaign against the BNP is to talk about remedies, which this
leaflet does," he said.

"The idea that there are no-go areas, such as immigration, has to be lanced.
People have to be reassured you are aware of the issue and you understand the
sheer velocity of the change over the last decade."

Mr Balls has a battle to take the seat, despite a notional majority of 9,784,
according to UK Polling Report, after the Tories designated it a battleground
seat and sent William Hague to the area for a poster launch.

At the local elections in 2008, Labour came fourth across the five wards in the
new seat, trailing the BNP. The result in Stanley and Outwood East, which mostly
falls in Normanton, was a particular shock since the Conservatives took the seat
directly from Labour.

While plans are being drawn up for David Cameron to hold a "Cameron Direct"
meeting, there is little sign of enthusiasm for his brand of conservatism in the
area.

Karen Wilson, 45, a parttime waitress, received a call from Mr Cameron. She
complained about the discrepancy between the education of her sons, 14 and 12,
one of whom goes to a grammar school and the other to a comprehensive.

"He said that education was something they were looking at but I felt he wasn't
really listening to what I was saying." She said she was unlikely to vote Tory
again.

Mr Balls's efficient local office, serving both his future and current
constituents, has won plaudits. It is helped by £31,902 given in 2008 by Unison,
and £5,000 given last year by Unite.

Michelle Austerfield, a charity helper, said a problem with her benefits was
sorted "overnight" by his team.

Mr Balls has even made public spending pledges - promises to Morley businessmen
that he will help to open doors with the regional development agency, Yorkshire
Forward, for money towards a new nightlife development in the town centre.

But Philip Boyes, an electrician in Leeds who lives in Outwood, said that Mr
Balls's work was a stepping stone for his national ambitions. He was outraged at
tales from his wife, who works at the local school, who reported that staff were
discouraged from raising problems with Mr Balls, the Schools Secretary, when he
visited.

"I will vote Tory because the country has been living beyond its means," he
said. However, he sympathised with those who turned to the BNP. "At the moment
if they got in power it would be anarchy. But if they got rid of one or two of
their extremist policies they would be electable."

Mr Robinson, president of Morley Chamber of Commerce, said that he understood
why people supported the BNP.

"Their ideas strike a chord in most people's minds. Their candidate is a
personable young chap. But it's frustrating because you can look back to times
when a similar situation (with growing far-right support) happened in Europe and
look how that turned out."

Notional share of vote Conservative 10,172 25.6% WEST YORKSHIRE Labour 19,956
50.2% Bradford Leeds Morley Halifax Wakefield Morley & Outwood Lib Dem 4,030
10.1% Other 5,570 14% Majority 9,784 24.6% West Yorkshire Candidates
Constituency profile Morley & Outwood Source: 2001 Census Anthony Calvert James
Monaghan Conservative Ed Balls Labour Lib Dem David Daniel UKIP Chris Beverley
BNP Full-time students White 97.7% Asian 1% A new constituency in West
Yorkshire, combining southern suburbs of Leeds, the town of Morley and parts of
Wakefield. Its predecessor, Morley & Rothwell, returned a Labour majority of
15,000 in 1997 Graduates age 16-74 Mixed 0.6% Black 0.2% Other 0.4% Population
No qualifications age 16-74 91,230 Under-18s Privately rented 5% 22.8% Over-60s
Housing association 1.8% Owner- occupied 76.1% Council 14.7% 18.4%

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ed Balls campaigns in Normanton, but he has a battle to avoid shock
defeat like Michael Portillo's, right, in 1997
GILL ALLEN FOR THE TIMES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Farage and Sarkozy are leading the way

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 90  words


I MUST agree with everything Kevin Toolis said in his piece about banning the
burkha but there are other things that should also be brought out into the open.

It should be made clear to anyone coming to Britain that they must abide by our
rules and customs.

If they want to live under some other kind of law then they should go to a
country that supports it.

MPs should look to what Nigel Farage, the former leader of the UKIP has to say
and then consult with French President Nicolas Sarkozy - they have the right
idea Thomas Wilson, Edinburgh

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 21, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Balls is wrong to criticise UKIP's policy on burkhas

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 119  words


WHEN Schools Secretary Ed Balls criticises Nigel Farage's statement that UKIP
policy will be to ban the burkha, he calls it unfair and un-British ("Ban burkha
in Britain says UKIP", January 18).

This, however, is the sort of nonsense that emanates from many people brought up
in the Sixties and Seventies. Sadly, many people in lofty positions remain
indoctrinated by this nonsense.

Fairness, sympathy for the underdog and human rights have become illogically and
obscenely excessive in this country.

If Muslims wish to settle in what for them is an alien British culture, they
should adapt, as many have already done. It is the burkha that is un-British and
it should be banned forthwith.

Geoffrey Woods, Watford, Herts

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

We should follow France in banning the burkha

SECTION: LETTERS; 47

LENGTH: 141  words


EURO MP Nigel Farage said his party, UKIP, wants to ban Muslim women from
covering their faces in public places (Scottish Daily Express, January 18). He
said "this is a symbol used to oppress women in an increasingly divided
Britain".

The French President, Nicolas Sarkozy, recently said veils were "not welcome"
because they intimidated non-Muslims. Under strict new laws being proposed,
women who wear Islamic veils in public buildings or on the streets of France
will face a GBP 700 fine.

In today's terrorist age how long before we have the first burkhawearing female
or male terrorist suicide bomber? We need a strong government that will
implement a policy similar to France and other parts of the world.

I am sure that moderate Muslims would support this ban since wearing the burkha
is not a mandatory requirement of Islam.

Clark Cross, Linlithgow

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Death of the great British brand

BYLINE: By Simon Edge Additional reporting by ANNA PUKAS and JULIE CARPENTER

SECTION: NEWS; 24

LENGTH: 1535  words


Cadbury's takeover by American giant Kraft Foods marks the selling of yet
another proud name from this nation's industry and business to foreign
ownership. The French and Germans wouldn't tolerate it. Why do we?

WHEN you're in need of comfort, where do you turn? For a fair proportion of us,
the answer is chocolate. Dairy Milk, Flake, Crunchie, Chocolate Buttons, Milk
Tray' they are naughty but nice indulgences that seem to have been around for
ever, just like the people who make them, Cadbury.

It's nearly 200 years since John Cadbury, a Quaker, opened a coffee shop in
Birmingham selling tea, coffee and hot chocolate as an alternative to alcohol.
The Dairy Milk brand was introduced in 1905, with Milk Tray coming 10 years
later. The firm merged with rival confectioner JS Fry & Sons - of Turkish
Delight fame - in 1919 but the disappearance of Cadbury's itself seems
unthinkable.

Yesterday, however, the company's board backed an GBP 11.5billion takeover bid
from US giant Kraft Foods, advising the firm's shareholders to accept the offer.

"For us to sell out to a company that doesn't bear any resemblance to us at all
is a horror story, " said Felicity Loudon, John Cadbury's great-great-great
granddaughter, yesterday. "Kraft won't understand the history and quality of the
company. They will have to asset-strip to afford this. They will cut corners and
sell out. To me they are a plastic-cheese company and this is the jewel in the
crown."

There is already speculation in financial circles that Kraft may sell off as
much as a third of Cadbury's assets.

This loss of an iconic British company to foreign ownership is the latest in a
very long line. Only this month the names Abbey National and Bradford & Bingley
are disappearing from the high street as the Spanish bank Banco Santander puts
its own nameplate over the banks it bought in 2004. Alliance & Leicester, which
the Spanish bank also owns, will be rebranded by the end of the year.

AND the process has been going on for much longer than that. British Leyland was
an early casualty, with familiar makes such as Austin and Morris disappearing
from the roads years ago. Luxury cars - once the ultimate sign of British
prestige - initially fared better but are now foreign-owned.

Today, Rolls-Royce Motor Cars is owned by BMW, Bentley is owned by Volkswagen,
Jaguar and Land Rover are owned by Indian company Tata, while Rover is owned by
a Chinese consortium.

Tata also owns the steel company Corus - formerly British Steel. Meanwhile
another industrial giant, ICI, is owned by the Dutch multinational Akzo Nobel,
and a glorious name from our shipbuilding heritage, Harland and Wolff of
Belfast, is owned by Norwegian company Fred Olsen.

Merseyside glassmaker Pilkington is owned by NSG of Japan.

The foreign sell-off is edging into the supermarket sector, with giant US chain
Wal-Mart having taken control of Asda, while our infrastructure - the arteries
of the nation - seems to have been sold off lock, stock and barrel.

BAA, which owns and operates Heathrow and Stansted as well as four other British
airports, is owned by Spanish company Grupo Ferrovial. Phone company O2, with
origins in British Telecom, is owned by European company Telefonica Europe, and
Orange - created in Britain in the Nineties - is part of France Telecom. Even
the power we use is foreign owned. Electricity and gas supplier npower is owned
by RWE of Germany, while Scottish Power and Powergen are both owned by E.ON,
which is also German.

"I wonder why we have lost so many companies to the US and to our European
neighbours, " says David Buik of stockbroker BGC Partners. "If the UK was to
show interest in buying a French or Geman company it would be shown the door in
a case of pure, unadulterated protectionism. And as for buying a German or
French bank, that's unthinkable. Again, they're government protected."

Another stockbroker, Ed Menashy of the firm Charles Stanley, agrees it's a
process that's far more likely to happen in this country than across the
Channel. "It is a pity when a wellloved brand goes abroad, " he says.
"Economically, takeover by a foreign owner makes sense but it is nonetheless a
loss of prestige, even of national identity. The French wouldn't allow it. They
safeguard their companies because a French name means more."

THE concerns of the Cadbury family about the company's future are shared by a
group of Labour MPs who issued a statement of concern about the takeover.

"We think a takeover by Kraft could pose real dangers for jobs, innovation and
the skill base in the West Midlands, " said Lynne Jones, Richard Burden, Steve
McCabe and Gisela Stuart. "We worry about the kind of future Cadbury would have
as part of this giant multinational whose priorities are decided a long way away
from the West Midlands.

"We think what has been happening to Cadbury also illustrates the vulnerability
of UK companies to hostile or predatory takeovers. This is something which both
Parliament and Government need to address."

It is undoubtedly a hallmark of the British economy that our native companies
are open to purchase from foreign bidders in a way that our advanced industrial
competitors would not countenance. But opinion is divided as to whether or not
we're getting it right.

Euro MP William Dartmouth, the UK Independence Party's trade spokesman, is one
of those who regrets the ongoing sell-off of Britain's industrial family silver.
"It is sad that Britain has lost another head office and another world-class
company has fallen into foreign hands, " he says. Unsurprisingly, he cites the
European Union as the source of the problem. "Perhaps if we were not so
hidebound by EU regulations our industries would be in a stronger position to
repel boarders, " he says.

Howard Wheeldon, chief strategist at BGC Partners, points out that none of these
takeovers could happen without the acceptance of the British shareholders -
primarily institutions such as hedge funds and pension funds rather than wealthy
individuals - who find the quick gain of a buyout more attractive than long-term
investment.

"British shareholders just want earnings growth and they want it quickly, in the
short term, " he says.

"This makes it difficult for companies to invest because that's expensive.
Foreign companies - and I would include the Americans - don't have such an
aggressive attitude to short-term performance as British companies. They do
invest."

He also suggests that there may be something about the way British businesses
are run that undermines their long-term prospects. "Our history tends to
mitigate against UK companies being successful for a protracted period, " he
says.

"They've either been badly managed, had bad industrial relations or there's been
too much government interference over the years.

"What would have happened to the British car industry without Japanese
investment? The fact is that today this country makes and exports more cars than
it ever has in the past 40 years. German companies bought Rolls-Royce and
Bentley but they both continue to manufacture here in Britain and invest here.
And a good company such as Cadbury has the muscle to demand a handsome price
from a would-be buyer."

IN other words, foreign ownership may be good for the British workforce and the
British economy in general. The problem is that it looks and feels bad for
national pride - particularly when buying and selling of companies seems to be a
one-way process as far as European competitors are concerned.

"British companies did well after 1979 when Mrs Thatcher removed currency
restrictions and they went abroad to acquire small companies or divisions of
companies, " Wheeldon admits. "But the French would never allow a foreign buyer
to acquire a French company. It's a little easier with the Germans but still
difficult. Deep down I would like to see companies such as Cadbury remain
British. But we have to move on. If we resist, we'd be cutting off our nose to
spite our face."

For those closer to the company, the reaction to losing a great British name is
hard to suppress.

"My ancestor would be turning in his grave, " says Felicity Loudon. "He not only
created a brand that continues to give everyone a buzz when the day gets tough
but also the Bournville model village, which is an example of caring employers
looking after their workforce.

"My great-grandfather George Cadbury with his brother Richard was responsible
for the move to the famous 'factory in a garden'. The idea was that no one
should live where a rose couldn't grow and that families should have houses with
gardens and fresh air, " she says.

"All this history is lost on the Americans. It's not just because I am a Cadbury
that I feel so English about it. I just feel it's really worth fighting for. It
appals me that a company like Kraft that makes something you put on your
hamburger could end up owning Cadbury."

UK PLC FOR SALE: THE CROWN JEWELS THAT HAVE ALREADY GONE ABROAD

ICI - to AKZO NOBEL (Holland)

SMITHS AEROSPACE and AMERSHAM INTERNATIONAL - to GENERAL ELECTRIC (US)

BLUE CIRCLE INDUSTRIES - to LAFARGE (France)

BAA - GRUPO FERROVIAL (Spain)

02 - to TELEFONICA (Spain)

nPOWER - to RWE (Germany)

ALLIED DOMECQ - to PERNOD RICARD (France)

PILKINGTON GLASS - to NSG (Japan)

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BITTERSWEET: Cadbury has been a much-loved name in Britain for almost
200 years but has now joined the exodus of iconic British brands abroad

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday

BA should be free to ban the cross

BYLINE: Carl Gardnerguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 495 words

ABSTRACT

Carl Gardner: By supporting Nadia Eweida's right to wear a cross at work,
Liberty is backing religious privilege over equality

FULL TEXT

A Christian is prevented from wearing a cross at work, though her employer lets
Muslim workers wear the hijab, and Sikhs the kara. Clear , surely? So says , who
yesterday took her case against BA to the Court of Appeal. Liberty's director ,
arguing that BA's policy was an intrusion into religious freedom. Eweida's claim
may indeed seem reasonable at first blush, but the principle she and Liberty
argue for is wrong. I hope they fail.

The case isn't actually about freedom of religion, but religious discrimination
under the . Under them, religious believers have claimed the  and the . Add to
this claims of a human right to wear  and the  at school, and it's clear we now
have a specifically religious litigation culture (what might be called
"religitigation") in which believers and activists attempt by law to extend
their rights over others.

Because equality with the non-religious isn't Eweida's aim. BA's policy bans
workers from wearing political symbols, too - some staff may be upset about
that. But Eweida doesn't want to be treated the same as them: she claims she
should have been treated more favourably. What makes her think BA's rules should
not apply to her (and they now have been changed) is simply that the symbol she
wants to wear is a religious one. Why, though, should religious jewellery be in
a category apart, the freedom to wear it more protected by law than the freedom
to wear any necklace? That isn't freedom, but religious privilege.

Eweida also says she was discriminated against compared to other faiths. Yes, BA
allows the kara, but Sikh women can reasonably argue their religion requires it.
The same may be true of headscarves for Muslims. In contrast, even Eweida
doesn't argue that a Christian must wear a cross as an article of faith.
Chakrabarti says that to draw this distinction is to misunderstand the idea of
rights; you should always have the right to wear religious symbols, as long as
they don't cause harm or stop you doing your job. That, though, would be the
wrong principle to adopt.

Behind this case lies the question of the burka, which  in some contexts and
which . A ban may be wrong. But Liberty's approach would mean a general right
for women to be fully veiled at work, subject only to limited safeguards for
safety and practicality.

Employers, not just schools or the police but all organisations that want to
promote equality, should be free to ban the full veil and religious symbols - at
least those not clearly required by a religion. If you want equality, you'll
agree; and oppose Eweida.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 20, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Islam and fear;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 239 words


Sir, Alan Sked and Richard Milne (letters, Jan 19) have missed the deeper points
about UKIP's suggestion that the burka should be banned in public places. Your
leading article (Jan 16) warned that our proposed ban on wearing the burka in
public buildings could set us on the road to fascism. However, one of the 21/7
bombers escaped wearing the burka; the hidden face can also hide a terrorist.

When we talk of terrorism, we usually refer to a problem coming from within
Islam. Of all the religions, Islam is the only one whose leaders do not wish
their followers to integrate into our society, and Sharia, which can alas be
described as gender apartheid, holds growing sway in too many parts of our
country. So the burka is a symbol of separation, discrimination and fear.

Nor does it have any place in mainstream Islam. The Grand Mufti of Egypt has
said it is "not Islamic". The Muslim Canadian Congress has described it as a
"political issue promoted by extremists", and called for it to be banned.

Let us not forget that Islam is very different to our Judaeo-Christian culture.
It is a religious, political and legal system rolled into one, a whole way of
life based on the Koran, and the penalty for leaving it can be death. A ban on
the burka would be for freedom, not fascism.

We must not run away from Islam, but debate it openly, particularly with the
vast majority of Muslims who are our friends.

lord pearson of rannoch Leader, UKIP

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

We need a proper debate on banning burkhas in Britain;
LEADER

BYLINE: Kevin Toolis Political commentator

SECTION: LEADER; 14

LENGTH: 858  words


YOU are walking down the street and suddenly it's hard to believe you are still
in Britain and not Saudi Arabia. A woman in a burkha. All you can see are the
eyes peeking out from behind a black sheet wrapped round the rest of her body.

And however well trained you are in the ways of multi-cultural Britain it's hard
not to stare at this medieval-style wraith on the modern shopping streets of
Britain.

And to be shocked. How is it possible in a democracy that another human being is
forced, or even willingly, covers their face in public because of their
religion? So all that we can see of them is two eyes blinking out from behind
the screen across their face.

Instinctively you wonder who is this mysterious human being? What is the rest of
her life like? Is this woman cowed into submission by her husband? What kind of
religion treats women in this way? And what kind of man only allows his wife to
go outside if she is wearing a tent?

Nigel Farage, former leader of UKIP, has explosively called for a total ban.
"It's a symbol of something that is used to oppress women. It is a symbol of an
increasingly divided Britain."

Farage is not alone. In France President Nicolas Sarkozy has stridently
reiterated his view that the burkha is "not welcome" in European society.

And at the end of the month the French parliament will meet to consider
introducing legislation to ban the burkha.

AT THE heart of the matter is a key democratic principle: just how far do we
tolerate the intolerance of others?

We would quite rightly all feel very uncomfortable to turn up at our children's'
school and be confronted by a schoolteacher wearing the niqab. Or teaching gym
class in a burkha.

Shockingly my partner was once forced to endure a medical appointment in a major
London teaching hospital by a female medical professional who was entirely
covered from head to toe not in surgical gowns but a burkha. It was intolerable.
An absolute abuse. But my partner, normally no shrinking violet, was too
intimidated to say anything. And there have been other examples such as Dewsbury
teaching assistant Aishah Azmi, who demanded the right to parade around her
school wearing a niqab saying that it was part of her religion if she had to
work alongside strange men.

Azmi's demands were only rejected after an expensive employment tribunal but we
are still grappling with exactly where society should draw the line on the
burkha?

Britain remains one of the most tolerant societies on earth. You can dye your
hair green, stick walrus tusks through your nose and cavort around in skimpy
underpants and most of the time all you will meet is studied indifference from
your fellow citizens. And it would indeed by very un-British if just wearing a
burkha was an arrestable offence.

But how far do we have to go to tolerate the religious beliefs and the clothing
and customs of others?

According to the Islamic fanatics who justify the burkha or niqab - both
garments are designed to protect the wearer's "modesty".

It is part of our culture, they argue, to protect our women from the gaze of
strange men. A woman's beauty, her face, should be preserved only for her
husband and hence that is why a women can only appear in public with her face
covered.

The burkha is just another little cultural trait of "multicultural" Britain we
are all going to have to get used to.

Oddly for a man, I have worn a burkha and can testify from personal experience
just exactly how horrible, oppressive and uncomfortable it is to don one.

I was reporting on Afghanistan and dressing in a burkha was the only way to
smuggle ourselves past Pakistani army checkpoints.

Wearing a burkha is like being blindfolded and wrapped up in a heavy overcoat on
the hottest summer day. I remember the cloying heat of my own breath trapped
inside this horrible veil and the shackle-like mini steps you had to take to
avoid falling over. A burkha is not just a symbol of oppression. Wearin g it is
an act of oppression.

Predictably Nigel Farage was immediately denounced as being "un-British" by the
farLeft Respect Party - whose stated aims are peace, justice and equality. "As
long as they are not imposing it on anybody else why should they not have the
right to wear it?" said the hijab-wearing Respect Party leader Salma Yaqoob.

I T'S hard to know if you should laugh or cry.

Supporting the right to wear the burkha is like supporting the right to slavery.

And it is a mark of how cowed we have become that only fringe parties such as
UKIP are prepared to publicly debate on such a contentious issue.

Democracy, even our soft, indifferent but touching British sense of democracy,
is not just about live and let live.

Demo cracy is also about ideals like the equality of women and men. It is about
standing up for some hing we believe in and drawing a limit on the intolerable.

There is nothing wrong with making it clear that in this country if you want to
enter a council office, or enter a school, or any public buildin g then you must
show your face as any other citizen would. Let us remember proudly that Britain
unlike Saudi Arabia is a democracy and the rules o f medieval theocracy do not
apply in our country.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VEILED THREAT? Women in burkhas still seem shocking in Britain today ts

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

TAXPAYERS FOOT BILL FOR CLIMATE CAMPAIGNERS

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 123  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats gave climate change groups more than GBP 1.5million of
taxpayers' money last year to promote the theory that human activity is causing
global warming, it emerged yesterday.

The European Commission handed out huge cash sums to Climate Action Network,
Friends of the Earth and the World Wildlife Fund. In one case, British and other
European taxpayers paid out more than GBP 700,000 to Friends of the Earth Europe
- more than half the pressure group's 2009 budget.

The payouts came to light after questions by UKIP Euro MP Godfrey Bloom. He said
the cash was perpetuating unfounded claims about global warming.

Environment Commissioner Stavros Dimas insisted that the groups' aims and
objectives were in tune with EU policy.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 550  words


I'M TOLD of an ominous development for Speaker of the House of Commons John
Bercow, who faces a challenge unprecedented for his ancient office (which is
traditionally given a free run by political opponents) from former UK
Independence Party leader Nigel Farage.

UKIP officials have privately revealed that the party intends to devote a
quarter of the party's entire election funds to defeating him, though they won't
specify how much that is. "He's the high-profi le scalp we very much want and
with Nigel standing we have a good chance of pulling it off, " says one.

While his 18,000 majority suggests otherwise, UKIP's hopes of defeating Bercow
are raised by the disillusionment of local Tories, under whose party colours he
was last elected. Many are expected to desert him next time, claiming he was
only elected to the Speaker's chair on Labour votes and because his rather vocal
wife was once a Labour council candidate.

DISCREDITED spinmeister Alastair Campbell, below, revels in his cosy
relationship with legendary Manchester United boss and long-time Labour
supporter Sir Alex Ferguson. But it appears to have been tested by United's
Premier League triumph this weekend over Campbell's beloved team Burnley. United
ran out comfortable 3-0 winners but, according to Blair's former press spokesman
his team "should have won 4-3".

Coming the week after we were reminded by his appearance at the Iraq Inquiry of
his role in the "dodgy dossier", I think we all now know how much credence to
place on Campbell's latest claim.

COULD this be the keenest insight into a dog's mind since Barbara Woodhouse
(remember her? ) used to cry: "Walkies"?

American psychology professor Alexandra Horowitz's new book Inside Of A Dog:

What Dogs See, Smell And Know, (published by Simon & Schuster next month) offers
precisely that according to the PR blurb that has landed on my desk - including
how they can smell sadness in humans and how they measure time.

I'm reminded instantly of one of my favourite sayings, repeated coincidentally
by Chris Evans on his new Radio 2 breakfast show yesterday although he omitted
to say it came from Groucho Marx.

"Outside of a dog a book is man's best friend, " said the old comic genius.
"Inside of a dog it's too dark to read."

WELSH Rugby Union vice-patron Prince William has executed the sort of body
swerve of which one-time international idol Gavin Henson would be proud. The
heir-to-thethrone-but-one accepted the post back in 2007 but it is well known
that the Cardiff faithful suspect him of preferring to watch England, at whose
matches he has been regularly spotted.

Now I hear he has dodged a conflict of interest when the two meet in the Six
Nations Championship at Twickenham on February 6.

"There are no plans for the Prince to attend the England game, " a WRU insider
tells me.

RUSSELL CROWE stars in an epic remake - estimated to cost GBP 110 million - of
Robin Hood, masterminded by Alien and Gladiator director Ridley Scott. But the
main point of debate seems not to be the cost of the movie but the fact that
Crowe, right, doesn't wear tights as the 12th century Prince of Thieves.

The actor insists:

"According to our research they weren't invented for another 300 years." But he
fetchingly adds: "I do have a pair of rather snazzy leather pants with a nice
codpiece."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

SHOULD BRITAIN BAN THE BURKHA?

SECTION: LETTERS; 29

LENGTH: 183  words


Yes

I AGREE with UKIP's former leader Nigel Farage ("Ban burkha in Britain says UKIP
", January 18)?

If the religion dictates that women must wear the veil, why did it not so
dictate 20 or 30 years ago?

I believe its appearance is due to the growing confidence within the Islamic
community that they now feel that they can push the boundaries a little further
year by year.

In our democracy it is essential that a recognisable face must be seen at all
times. Without this, criminality will be made so much easier. Veils must be
banned.

Keith Brown, By e-mail

No

NIGEL Farage of UKIP has got it all wrong. The veil and the burkha are not
cultural symbols but integral parts of the Muslim religion.

And as long as we are a country that prides itself on not just freedom of
expression but also freedom of religious expression, we cannot deny Muslim women
the right to cover their faces in public.

The press is always first off the mark to publicise any breach of the Christian
right to wear a cross so how can we fairly deny followers of Islam the right to
follow their conscience and wear the veil?

Sandra Evans,

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday

Diary: The old Etonian party leader could become the Tories' biggest electoral
liability

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 664 words


While Ukip's Nigel Farage campaigns to ban the burka from Buckingham in his
drive to unseat Commons Speaker John Bercow before Tory MPs do, his successor as
party leader is far more ambitious. Ukip's task at the election is "to stop the
Conservative party winning as many seats as possible", rackety Etonian Lord
Pearson of Rannoch (pictured) boasts to fellow-peers and MPs. Up to 50, he
predicts. Undermining mainstream votes less noisily is the BNP. Some MPs,
Labour's Janet Anderson and Tory Nadine Dorries for instance, have belatedly
realised that recent complaints about their expenses, made to standards
commissioner John Lyon, were lodged by a retired BNP copper. Michael Barnbrook
claims to have started the whole expenses saga and in 2005 stood against Derek
Conway, getting 2,015 votes for Ukip. He quit the party over its abuses of (yes)
expenses.

Would Wogan have done it? During peripatetic pork pie banter between Radio 2's
newly enthroned breakfast show chef Chris Evans and his colleague Ken Bruce, the
ginger funster appeared to suggest that the missing pie had been scoffed by a
guest, Rabbi Pete Tobias of the Liberal Synagogue in Elstree. "Well, he is a
Liberal rabbi," quipped Bruce. Investigative reporters from the Jewish Chronicle
have established that Rabbi Pete ate only home-made hummus. The recipe is still
on the programme's website, Terry.

A gap has opened in the lives of art lovers in downtown Los Angeles, where a
gallery which rents out pictures has closed pending a move to new premises. It
claims to be run by Phyllis Stein.

The latest Police Review magazine again debates how best to identify
over-zealous police officers (not Michael Barnbrook, obviously) who cover their
number before misbehaving. It stirred faint memories for Review reader John
Kenny, who first proposed they wear name badges in a letter published by the mag
in July 1968. Apparently, officers with silly names fear they might be
"ridiculed by the public", he reveals. Get over it, PC Constable.

Can the Amanda Platell who mocked David Cameron's airbrushed campaign poster (he
looked like "a Bible belt televangelist with his wig on back to front") in
Saturday's Mail be the same A Platell who underwent the Derma Roller facial
treatment (needle-sharp spikes pushed into the skin) in Friday's paper? She can
and was also William Hague's image masseur when Billy boy bombed his leadership
ambitions by appearing in a baseball cap.

One of many crimes levelled against Tony Blair and his acolytes was that they
briefed against lovable Mo Mowlam and jealously ruined her career. Neil McKay's
new Channel 4 film tells a different story: how Mo deceived them all about the
seriousness of her illness in order to become Northern Ireland secretary in
1997, forcing her doctor, Mark Glaser, into complicity. Blair was actually quite
indulgent, but all sorts of people who should have known better went along with
the complaints of an unwell woman that she was being persecuted. Glaser, who
felt under great pressure (what if a miscalculation in Belfast led to an
atrocity?) was greatly relieved when she was moved in 1999. "The day she left I
had a stiff drink."

David Cameron, who wants to deny state funds to aspiring teachers who only get
third-class honours degrees, keeps a couple of volumes of Evelyn Waugh on the
bookshelf by his desk in his Westminster office, perhaps to remind himself that
high seriousness can be combined with style and wit. But Waugh left Oxford in
1924 without a degree when he was heading for a third. What did he do? Teach in
Wales. Result: the brilliant Decline and Fall.

Showbiz historian David Starkey has coined the OTT phrase "gangland bling" to
describe the brilliant Anglo-Saxon gold find in Staffordshire for which West
Midlands patriots are trying to raise £3.3m to keep in the region. A scary
precedent is Mentmore. An impoverished Labour government was offered the great
house for £2m and said no. The contents alone fetched £6m.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Nothing liberal about defending burkas

BYLINE: Joan Smith

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 520 words


HERE'S THE thing about the burka: it's absurd. There are many reasons why people
choose to dress as they do but this garment is ugly, restricts communication and
represents a dishonest ideology. If covering everything except the eyes
protected women from rape and sexual harassment, Saudi Arabia would be a
feminist paradise, but that isn't quite how I'd describe the kingdom.

The notion that young women in tight jeans are "asking for it" appeals to
defence barristers in rape trials and some Muslim clerics - an Australian imam
compared them to "uncovered meat" left out for cats - but it doesn't explain why
elderly women are sexually assaulted in their own homes.

The leader of Ukip in the European Parliament, Nigel Farage, has just called for
a ban on the burka (I assume he means the niqab as well, since that is more
common in British towns and cities). In France, the demand for a ban came
originally from a communist deputy, demonstrating that the burka causes unease
across the political spectrum, and has received public support. But while I
dislike the burka as much as anyone, I don't believe a ban is justified or even
necessary, given that the arguments for wearing the face-veil are so feeble.

What worries me is that this isn't said more often, out of reluctance to cause
offence or fear of appearing racist. The niqab and the burka are symbols of an
ideology, not a fashion statement, and we shouldn't be afraid of making a robust
ideological response to them.

Here is mine. One of the most fundamental human rights is equal access to public
space. Islam doesn't demand that men cover their faces before they go out, but
its more extreme advocates place special conditions on how women dress outside
the home. It's a typical example of patriarchal practice, based on the notion
that women should be under the control of their male relatives at all times, and
it's incompatible with any notion of universal human rights. It limits women's
contact with non-relatives and maintains barriers between people who have
different ethnic and religious backgrounds. (Of course it does. That's what it's
for.)

In effect, a woman in a niqab is wearing a mask, signalling her deliberate
separation from people unlike herself. It's hard to think of another form of
dress which is so highly politicised - or so rejectionist of mainstream culture.

This is the point missed by liberal defenders of the niqab and the burka. I'm
aghast when they say it's about personal choice, as though that removes the
subject from the political arena; one of feminism's most influential slogans -
"the personal is political" - exposed that as nonsense four decades ago.

No one is saying that women cover their faces for a single reason: a fairly
small number believe their religion requires it, some come under family
pressure, others adopt it for the political reasons I've outlined above.
Whatever the motive, the symbolic meanings - separation, rejection, an
acceptance of shame - remain the same. I don't want to ban the burka but I do
reserve the right to say, as politely as possible, that wearing it in the
21st-century is preposterous.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP, far-Right politics and a ban on the burka;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 533 words


Sir, Your leading article ("Veil of ignorance", Jan 16) attacking UKIP's
proposed public ban of the burka may have pleased the Islington and Notting Hill
sets but does a huge disservice to the great majority of the British people, who
want an honest and balanced debate on this sensitive issue.

Moderate Muslims regard the burka as a sign of growing radicalisation, saying
that we should demand to see people's faces in public, so that we do not feel
scared or frightened. Turkey has banned it already.

The sad reality is that Britain now has an anti-British Establishment who hate
their own country and seek to denigrate it at every opportunity. This elite -
this Lib-Lab consensus - is now dangerously out of touch on issues from the EU
through defence spending to MP expenses and immigration.

UKIP deplores racism but will not shrink from facing serious and divisive issues
head on. Someone has to.

david campbell bannerman, mep Deputy Leader, UKIP Sir, During the greatest
financial crisis facing this country since the 1930s, how typical it is of
UKIP's present pathetic leadership that its flagship policy for the forthcoming
general election should be to attack the less than 1 per cent of our female
population who wear the burka. This is desperate and inane.

If the party is really so obsessed with race, immigration and Islam, it should
simply merge with the BNP, which it increasingly resembles. Why have a
competition in intolerance? Why not present a united front? After all the
political expediency that drives both these anti-EU parties to take up seats in
the European Parliament surely dictates such a measure. But let us dismiss any
thought that either of them represents "British values".

I founded UKIP as a tolerant, liberal and democratic party. By 1997 I could
already see the far-Right writing on the wall and quit as party leader and
member. It is a decision that I have never regretted, now least of all. I hope
that all decent people will condemn the party as you did in your splendid
leading article. dr alan sked London N1 Sir, This is further evidence that UKIP
has effectively become the rich man's BNP. Both parties are also wooing
far-Right voters by using idiot logic to dismiss the science of climate change,
indicating a preference for pretend solutions over real ones. The new far Right
of British politics now sees both ignorance and intolerance as virtues, and has
UKIP firmly aboard.

They have achieved what David Cameron never could: suddenly the Tories look
cuddly by comparison. dr richard milne Edinburgh Sir, Covering of the face sends
a strong message that communication is to be blocked and is therefore
instinctively read as threatening. No amount of explanation will change this
very basic fact. Antipathy to the wearing of the burka has nothing to do with
prejudice, freedom to worship or immigration. The Koran contains no religious
requirement that women cover their faces.

Sadly, many women are forced to wear the burka and their ability to communicate
effectively and openly is deliberately denied. The few who are able to choose to
wear it are perhaps unaware of the encouragement they give to those who impose
it, or they don't care. caroline clayden Bath

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Freedom must apply to all faiths and none;
The Christian's right to wear a cross must be defended as fiercely as any other
religious liberty

BYLINE: Shami Chakrabarti

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 857 words


Today Liberty returns to court. After the victory last week of personal privacy
over blanket stop-andsearch powers in the Court of Human Rights, we go to the
Court of Appeal to protect freedom of thought, conscience and religion from
unjustified intrusion and prejudice.

You may remember the story of Nadia Eweida, the British Airways check-in worker
who was banned from wearing a small cross on a chain. This modest manifestation
of her faith was as important to her as a turban or hijab to other workers. Yet
the airline accommodated these other items without, perhaps, embracing the
underlying values that would have protected Ms Eweida and anyone else from the
blundering assertion that "rules is rules is rules".

After a public outcry that included secular, religious and political voices from
across the spectrum, the airline modified its uniform policy. But not before Ms
Eweida had been off work for months without pay, and crucially, without
accepting the ethical and legal principle that would protect her and others of
all faiths and none in the future. Worse still, BA instructed an international
law firm strenuously to resist her claim of religious discrimination.

What followed was an extremely disappointing employment appeal tribunal that
found no discrimination, because "Christians generally" do not consider wearing
a cross as a religious "requirement". This fundamentally misunderstands the idea
of individual rights and freedoms, which do not depend on how many people agree
with your conscience or speech. It also opens up secular courts to lengthy
arguments as to what is a theological necessity. Making windows into men's souls
is as pointlessly complex as it is dangerous.

Predictably, this case and others like it, have provided fuel for the fire of
those wanting to portray tolerance and the laws of non-discrimination as
inherently anti-Christian, or as skewed in favour of some communities and not
others. Public confidence as well as individual justice demands that liberal
values be applied with an even hand.

It seems to me that any society has three choices in dealing with this small
question of religion.

The first is to elevate an approved faith to the point of dominant status over
all other belief systems. It is formally woven into the legal, political and
social system, every sphere of public life and as much of private life as
possible. An extreme example might be Afghanistan under the Taleban; a more
moderate one, Britain at earlier and less enlightened times in its history.

The second option is, in many ways, equal and opposite. It is based on the view
that faith is all dangerous, divisive mumbo-jumbo. No good can come of it so, if
it cannot be eradicated altogether, it must be chased from the public sphere,
confined to a place of worship or the home, upstairs under the bed with the
pornography. An extreme example would be Stalin's Russia; a more moderate one,
the French Republic.

You will have guessed that I favour a third approach that is based on human
rights and resonates well with a society such as Britain's. Here the struggle
for religious freedom has been strongly connected with the struggle for
democracy itself.

I believe that human beings are creatures of both faith and logic, emotion and
reason and it is as well that the law reflects this. It may be true that
religion has caused much war and prejudice but it has also inspired much art,
music and compassion. And it is also true that scientists and engineers have
produced some of the greatest advances in human history, but also some of the
stuff of nightmares.

If we really believe in freedom of thought, conscience and religion, this must
include the right to the faith or belief of one's choice, the right to no faith
and to be a heretic.

Proportionate limits on this precious liberty don't arise because a minority
causes irritation or even offence. We interfere when someone is harming others,
or in the workplace when, for instance, their faith or clothing prevents them
doing their job.

The public seem to agree. A Liberty-ComRes poll published today shows that 86
per cent of British Christians polled disagreed with BA's treatment of Ms Eweida
and 80 per cent agreed that her case sets a dangerous precedent. Even more
encouragingly, 96 per cent think that everybody should have freedom of thought,
conscience and religion as long as they do not harm others; 85 per cent say that
regardless of your faith, the law should protect the right to wear its symbols
as long as they do not harm others. The supposed libertarians at UKIP can put
that in their populist pipe and smoke it.

If Nadia Eweida were a surgeon refusing to remove her cross in theatre, a
reasonable employer would intervene to prevent jewellery dangling over the
patients. Similarly, there are a number of medical and security contexts where a
woman in a burka might be asked to unveil in a respectful and discreet manner.

But that is very different from BA stubbornly defending past mistakes or UKIP
attempting to steal clothes and voters from the BNP.

Shami Chakrabarti is director of Liberty

Making windows into men's souls is pointlessly complex and dangerous

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Better to draw a veil over this daft idea, Nige

BYLINE: Robert Crampton

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 798 words


I've a soft spot for Nigel Farage, the former leader of the UK Independence
Party. Partly because we were, unbelievably to me, both born in 1964. Yet while
I - I trust - on a good day, with the wind in the right direction, look about
the age I actually am (younger if my byline picture is to be believed, which it
isn't) Nigel doesn't look a day under 60.

And partly I like Nigel because he appears to be such a wonderfully English
stereotype, a good chap in the Dog and Duck, paying for his G&T with a tenner
folded lengthways, have one for yourself, Linda, Jag parked outside, political
correctness gone mad, the old health and safety brigade'll have something to say
about that, what about this weather, eh, bring back global warming, I say, hah,
hah, hah, etc, etc.

But mostly I like Nigel because just when you might be stuck for something to
write about, up he pops on The Andrew Marr Show and says something stupid.

Put a lid on it What Nigel told Andrew was that his party approves of a ban on
"covering of the face in public places and public buildings". "I can't go into a
bank with a motorcycle helmet on," he told Marr, "I can't wear a balaclava going
round the District and Circle line." Therefore, he reasons, veils should be made
illegal.

Leaving aside the unsettling image of our hero, clearly a bankrobber manqué,
stalking the streets of the capital in a ski mask or skidlid, regretfully having
to remove either to get on the Tube or pay in a cheque, and leaving aside also
that (along with almost everybody else) I don't like husbands telling their
wives that they can go outdoors only if they wear a black sheet, there's always
trouble when the Government tries to tell citizens what to wear. Things tend to
get very silly very quickly.

It isn't just (a minority of) Muslim women who wear the veil. What about
weddings? Lovely summer Saturday, happy bride arrives at the church, ding, dong,
over here for the photos please, hold on, here's PC Plod, what's he up to? No,
surely not, oh I say, that's outrageous, he's ripping off the bridal veil, he's
jumping up and down on it. Groom rushes out to intervene, inevitable fracas,
would-be Mr and Mrs So-and-so spend their big day in the cells.

What about grieving widows? That could get messy. What about beekeepers?
There'll be some nasty stings. What about actresses filming Edwardian costume
dramas? The manicured lawn, the basket of cut flowers, the straw hat, the
decorous turn-of-thecentury silk tulle, these images are part of the fabric of
mid-evening British telly. All gone. Rent asunder.

Take it on the chin Nige isn't just talking about veils, though, he's gunning
for anything that covers the face, hence his motorbike and balaclava references.
There'll be an exemption for protective headgear, but what is protective? In the
recent cold, a balaclava was legitimate protection against frostbite of the
chin, mouth and nose.

Will it be OK to wear a balaclava if the temperature drops below a certain
level? How will we know? Will Nigel make an announcement? On Twitter? "Chilly
enough 2 muffle up this morning, ladies and gents. Must B removed by lunchtime,
4cast is it's warming up!!!" Some scarves, worn high and tightly wound, can
obscure pretty much the entire face, indeed that being the idea. How will Nige
distinguish? What about those masks some cyclists wear? Surgeons doing
operations? Groucho Marx disguises you buy in the joke shop? Face paint?
Tattoos? How about rugby players who like to dress as nurses? Extrovert types in
fancy dress at parades, carnivals, fetes? How about Hallowe'en? What to do about
those fine upstanding law-abiding Englishmen and women whose favoured leisure
activities necessitate the use of a gimp mask? And, perhaps of most interest and
importance, where would Nige's ban leave the Stig? How about long fringes? Heavy
make-up? Sunglasses? Furry animal suits as worn by mascots at football matches?
Cricketers facing fast bowling (but not the spinners)? Am-drams putting on
Equus? Pantomime horses? People who run the London Marathon dressed as medieval
knights? Who's under that helmet? Is she oppressed? Has she got a bomb? Getting
a bit hairy A couple of miles north of my house is Stamford Hill, an area of
North London popular with orthodox Jews. Big bushy beards, thick specs,
oversized black hats, plus the women are fond of wigs. I have to tell you Nige,
their faces are pretty well covered, it's hard to say who's who under all that
gear, all that hair. What shall we do? Ban the big hats? The specs? Best be on
the safe side, best chop those big beards off as well, like the Nazis did with
the rabbis on Kristallnacht.

Nige admits that the razor-sharp minds staffing UKIP's policy unit haven't yet
fully thought through how such a ban might work in practice. Too right.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 19, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 29 words


UKIP and a ban on burkas Covering of the face sends a message that communication
is to be blocked and is therefore instinctively read as threatening Caroline
Clayden, page 27

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ukip calls for ban on Muslim veils;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 73 words


Muslim women should be banned from covering their faces, Nigel Farage of the UK
Independence Party has said.

Mr Farage, an MEP, said wearing a veil had become a symbol of something that is
used to oppress women, and a symbol of an increasingly divided Britain. He
denied the call was motivated by prejudice. Mr Farage told BBC One's Politics
Show that his party wanted to ban the "covering of the face in public places and
public buildings".

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BAN BURK A IN BRITAIN!;
It's used to oppress women says UKIP

BYLINE: ® by EMILY HALL

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 255 words


BURKAS should be banned, politicians said yesterday.

The UK Independence Party became the first in the country to call for the Muslim
garb to be outlawed.

It said face-coverings do not match up to "Britain's values of freedom and
democracy".

Party leader, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, said: "It makes sense to ban the burka,
or anything which conceals a women's face, in public buildings.

"But we want to make it possible to ban them in private buildings. It isn't
right that you can't see someone's face in an airport.

"We are not Muslim bashing, but this is incompatible with Britain's values of
freedom and democracy."

Ex-UKIP leader, Nigel Farage, who leads 13 UKIP MEPs in Brussels, added: "I
can't go into a bank with a motorcycle helmet on. I can't wear a balaclava going
round the District and Circle line.

"What we are saying is, this is a symbol. It's a symbol of something that is
used to oppress women. It is a symbol of an increasingly divided Britain."

But schools secretary Ed Balls said: "I wouldn't want to be part of a religion
myself where we said to women and girls you have to wear a veil, but I also
would not want to be in the kind of society where people were told how to dress
when they walked down the streets."

Inayat Bunglawala, of the Muslim Council of Britain, said: "The overwhelming
majority of women who wear the burka do so out of a sense of religious duty.
UKIP have no right to overrule that."

French president Nicolas Sarkozy recently said the veil was "not welcome" in
France as politicians there debate a ban.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROW: The outfit, inset, Lord Pearson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Ban burkha in Britain says UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 276  words


MUSLIM women should be banned from wearing the burkha and other veils that cover
their faces in ublic, the UK Independence Party said yesterday.

Nigel Farage, the party's former leader, said the move would prevent extremists
imposing their culture - including Sharia law - on Britain.

The Euro MP told the BBC's Politics Show: "I can't go into a bank with a
motorcycle helmet on. I can't wear a balaclava going round the District and
Circle line.

"What we are saying is this is a symbol. It is a symbol of something that is
used to oppress women. It is a symbol of an increasingly divided Britain, and
the real worry - and it isn't just about what people wear - is we are heading
towards a situation where many of our cities are ghettoised and there is even
talk of Sharia law becoming part of British culture."

France wants a ban on the veil - called a niqab - made law. Mr Farage said:
"There is nothing extreme or radical or ridiculous about this, but we can't go
on living in a divided society." He said 200,000 women in Britain wear the veil.

But Schools Secretary Ed Balls accused UKIP of indulging in "unpleasant
politics".

Mr Balls said: "I would not want to be part of a religion myself where we said
to women and girls, 'You have to wear a veil'.

"But I also would not want to be in the kind of society where people were told
how to dress when they walked down the streets. The idea that we would tell
people, 'You cannot wear a veil in public', I think that's not British. It is
not consistent with our traditions of liberty and freedom."

Other critics suggested UKIP was seeking to attract support from British
National Party voters. Mr Farage denied this.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

WHO'LL SORT OUT FIASCO OF OUR WELFARE STATE?;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 23

LENGTH: 161  words


YET again the state protects the undeserving while fending off the deserving,
like wartime fighter pilot John Mejor ("Spitfire ace forced to sell his house to
pay care home fees. . . as police watch immigrants find new squat", January 15).

These cases make soul-destroying reading, together with what happened to Myleene
Klass when she scared off late-night trespassers in her garden ("Fury at police
for warning Myleene over 'knife threat'", January 11).

By contrasting police inaction over the squatters with the manpower poured into
arresting Conservative MP Damian Green for embarrassing the Home Office, Leo
McKinstry summed up how low we've sunk ("Immigrants squat in your house and
you're powerless?", January 14).

David Cameron is too soft to turn Britain and the welfare state around, which
means anarchy, sooner or later. My contribution to avoiding this scenario is to
vote UKIP. Leo McKinstry for Prime Minister? I live in hope.

T Banks, Eastbourne, E Sussex

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: RAW DEAL: Wartime fighter pilot John Mejor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 18, 2010 Monday

Comment: Polls dictate the state of play. And sometimes get it wrong: The
possibility of error in tracking voting intentions is increased by a spiral of
silence. Labour shouldn't write off the election yet

BYLINE: Julian Glover julian.glover@guardian.co.uk

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 889 words


'Politicians say they don't look at the opinion polls - bullshit! Of course they
do! We all do!" David Cameron exclaimed at one of his meet-the-people sessions
this month. And he is right. Polls are not just a symptom of politics, a fever
or a chill, but the difference between health and disease. A shudder in the
Labour rating? The cabinet starts murmuring. The Tories slide below 40%? Cameron
had better find kind words to say about Nick Clegg. Greens up; Ukip down; BNP
anywhere - the predictive magic of numbers quantifying the thoughts of 45
million voters into 100 tidy units.

Polls are why we think Labour is going to lose this spring. Polls are why there
was no election in 2007. Polls are (in part) why Cameron is and stays leader.
But before we trust polls, we should ask how they are created and whether they
might be misleading. What if the British political class is chasing digits
without substance?

The Guardian commissions a poll at least every month, and at its core are voting
intention figures that matter more and are calculated differently from the
answers to any other questions. Our partnership with ICM runs back to 1980 and
the record - the Great Polling Disaster of 1992 apart - has been excellent.

In 2005 most firms got the vote shares almost spot on. In America, they
predicted President Obama. This winter, the broad outline of national opinion
described by polls is surely right - an unpopular Labour government, a more
popular (but not unshakable) opposition and an electorate that doesn't like
politicians of any kind.

It is likely that the polls are accurate. But the possibility of some serious
and sustained fault is not negligible. Part science, part art, polling is as
accurate as its last mistake.

A typical British poll includes the views of something over 1,000 voters - 1,000
being the statistical point at which the margin of error reduces to close to 3%.
The tricky thing about polling voting intention, however you do it, is that it
is no use asking people what they plan to do and just totting up the totals.
When it comes to the ballot box, some of the people contacted won't vote. Others
might not have told the truth. And few of us know for sure what we will do.
Further, the kind of people who find the time to answer questions from a
stranger calling their home, or who join an internet panel, will not be
representative of the public as a whole. Pollsters know this, of course; and
know they must weight figures to reflect the likely characteristics of the
electorate. And this is where the difficulties begin.

For the past 25 years telephone pollsters have been wrestling with a persistent
tendency of the polls to overstate Labour's share of the vote. Since 1983 the
only final poll before election day to have proved to be too kind to the
Conservatives was ICM's in 1997. Pollsters have got used to voters treating the
Conservatives as the underdogs. They use adjustments to allow for the fact that
telephone samples contain more Labour voters than the electorate as a whole, and
that Labour voters overstate their likelihood to vote.

They have also had to deal with the so-called spiral of silence - the fact that
some voters whose party choice is unpopular will hide their party allegiance
from pollsters. Plot election polls for the last 25 years on a chart, and most
overstate the likely lead of the winning party. All this has had the effect of
increasing figures for Tory support - and making the polls more accurate.

But what if, in the context of 2010, these assumptions are turned on their head?
We already know that in the last 18 months or so the spiral of silence has
helped Labour: pollsters now find themselves having to increase Labour's share,
to take account of people who say they have switched away from the party but may
still turn out for it on polling day. Perhaps some shy Labour voters are even
now evading the pollsters' radar.

By correcting the error of 1992 - when Labour support was put too high - polling
could have set itself up for a new fall in 2010, by putting it too low. The
opposite might be true, too - that the spiral of silence is not working in
Labour's favour at all. If this is the case the polls may, yet again, be too
generous to the party.

Evidence of error either way is thin. It would be irresponsible for pollsters to
ditch methods that proved so accurate in 2005, on a hunch that next time things
might be different. But the interposition of weighting, between the raw data and
the published poll, includes what is essentially a kind of expert hunch. Last
year brought a poll every five days or so, from half a dozen companies using
different weightings and research techniques. Their results were strikingly
close. There is pressure in numbers, and no polling firm wants to break ranks
without reason to do so.

There is an obvious commercial desire to be the most accurate, but heavy
commercial risk arises from being the most wrong. Pollsters have to wonder
whether it is better to be in with the herd. That is fine if they herd around an
accurate consensus view, as in 2005 - but look what happened in 1992. That the
polls all say the same thing does not in itself mean they are right. When weary
Labour ministers insist that the election is not yet lost, little as they may
believe it, they may have a point.

julian.glover@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Ukip calls for ban on burkas

BYLINE: Craig Woodhouse

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 139 words


BANNING MUSLIM women from covering their faces is neither "radical or
ridiculous", former UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage insisted
yesterday.

The Euro MP, pictured, said his party's call to outlaw Islamic face veils was
about preventing extremists from imposing their culture, including sharia, on
Britain. But Schools Secretary Ed Balls described it as "not British". Mr Farage
told BBC1's Politics Show that his party wanted to ban the "covering of the face
in public places". He described the face veil as "a symbol of something that is
used to oppress women" and "a symbol of a divided Britain".

France is seeking to push a ban into law, and other countries are considering
similar measures, Mr Farage said, adding: "There is nothing extreme or radical
or ridiculous about this, but we can't go on living in a divided society."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UKIP veil ban fight

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 60 words


THE UK Independence Party yesterday called for a ban on face-covering Muslim
veils in public.

Euro MP Nigel Farage said the niqab and full body burka are "symbols of a
divided Britain".

He called for a ban like the one being considered in France.

But minister Ed Balls said that is "not British, unfair and not consistent with
our traditions of liberty and freedom".

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 18, 2010 Monday 12:23 PM GMT

Don't ban the burka. Ban liberals instead

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 576 words


For many years I used to live on the same street as a sixth-form college in West
London, the sort of place which, if Ofsted measured schools by their buzzing
diversity rather than actual educational standards, would be near the top of the
London league tables. The pupils looked like fairly typical London teenagers -
the men dressed like babies, and the women dressed like prostitutes, and
increasingly so as the Noughties went on.

Except that, after a few years, the first headscarves started to appear. This
wasn't just the result of demographic change, as West Indians moved out and
Somalis and Kurds moved in - there were Caribbean-looking girls and white girls
wearing the things (the latter included not just Albanians and Bosnians, people
who have not worn Islamic gear in many years, but English converts). By the time
I left the area, almost every girl in the school looked either like something
from medieval Arabia or a background singer in a Christina Aguilera video.

I think about that college every time a politician brings up the burka, the most
extreme form of Islamic headgear, which Nigel Farage of UKIP now wants to ban.
He gave various reasons, among them:

What we are saying is, this is a symbol. It's a symbol of something that is used
to oppress women. It is a symbol of an increasingly divided Britain.

And the real worry - and it isn't just about what people wear - the real worry
is that we are heading towards a situation where many of our cities are
ghettoised and there is even talk about Sharia law becoming part of British
culture.

I can't go into a bank with a motorcycle helmet on. I can't wear a balaclava
going round the District and Circle line.

I'm not sure about the last one - I would have thought wearing a balaclava on
the Circle line, or a motorcycle helmet or gimp mask for that matter, was an
Englishman's cherished constitutional right, probably dating back to 1215 or at
least 1689.

I've no doubt Nige is right when he says a "different" culture is "being forced
on parts of Britain and nobody wants that", but all these measures, such as
banning the burka or Sharia4UK, do involve violating basic principles of English
freedom (indeed, one could argue that the authoritarian former Trotskyites who
whittle on about "diversity" love it so much because diversity necessitates
authoritarianism in the name of "community relations").

The burka and the various types of Islamic headgear are certainly symbols of
rejection and separatism, and (as he won't say) that separatism is linked to the
size of the Muslim population (face-covering headscarves are generally only worn
in ghettos, not among Muslims in non-Muslim areas). But they also flourish
because "British values" to many teenage girls do not mean Shakespeare or
Dickens, Wesley or Chesterton, but only "rights". Ed Balls called UKIP's
proposals "not British", which might be true, except that this is the man who
wants five-year-olds to have sex education and who has just scrapped museum
passes for families because they do not reflect the "complex reality of
21st-century families".

Looking at the two types of teenage girl who now attend that sixth-form college
in west London, I wonder which one I would prefer my daughter to grow up as; I
also wonder which better represents a "different" culture that has been forced
on Britain. Indeed one could argue that Islam is not replacing British culture,
but only filling a void that has been left by its suicide.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 18, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP burka ban oppressive, says Respect

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger ; Ruth Gledhill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 194 words


Plans to ban Muslim women from covering their faces in public areas are
oppressive, the leader of the Respect party said yesterday.

Salma Yaqoob's comments came as the UK Independence Party (UKIP) announced a
formal policy that would make the wearing of garments such as the burka or the
niqab - both of which conceal most of the face - to be illegal.

Nigel Farage, the former UKIP leader and MEP, said: "In a liberal democracy we
want to tolerate different religions and cultures and not have a small section
of society impose their world view on the rest of us." Announcing the policy, Mr
Farage, who will contest John Bercow's Buckingham seat in the election, said
that Britain faced a "ghettoisation" that was a threat to society. "There is
nothing extreme or radical about this. We can't go on living in a divided
society," Mr Farage said.

Ms Yaqoob said: "We do not need a man or a woman telling people what to wear."

However, in a study to be released this month, David Voas, of the University of
Manchester, found that 42 per cent of Britons said people should not be allowed
to dress in a way that shows their faith, such as wearing veils, turbans or
crucifixes.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                January 17, 2010

Say what you like, as long as it meets with the mob's approval: While massed
online aggression lays claim to be free speech it can trump any accusation of
bullying

BYLINE: Catherine Bennett

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1199 words


Perhaps it's just age, and nostalgia, but one can't help feeling that free
speech martyrs used to be a lot more appealing. In its infancy, the movement
against censorship agitated on behalf of artists, iconoclasts, talented
blasphemers; against repressive forces whose unpleasantness only confirmed which
side was in the right. How difficult was it for liberals, back in the 60s, to
support the work of DH Lawrence against the director of public prosecutions, or,
as late as the 1980s, Michael Bogdanov's against Mary Whitehouse (who had heard
- without actually seeing the play herself - that a penis could be glimpsed in
performances of The Romans in Britain

Today, on the other hand, the conscientious supporter of free expression finds
herself championing the rights of the disc jockey Michael Savage. Government
censors - without actually hearing his shows themselves - have decided his
presence in the UK, even as a non-broadcasting tourist, would be "not considered
conducive to the public good".

The ghastliness of this American shock jock, who, though still obscure to most
Britons, is said to be the third most popular radio host in the States, perhaps
explains why news of his continued exclusion from the UK was greeted last week
with utter indifference. Or it could be that much of last year's indignation
about his treatment was aimed at the detested Jacqui Smith. Possibly, it does
not help Savage's cause that his current champion is the Ukip peer, Lord Pearson
of Rannoch, who has a history of voting against gay rights legislation. It
certainly counts against Savage's case for free speech that his principal
targets are gays, Muslims and autistic children. Women he might have got away
with. It's hard to say.

Justifying the ban, Lord West of Spithead, the security minister, refused to
quote the offending statements, precisely because, he said, "some of them are
deeply offensive". Perhaps fellow peers, if exposed to Savage's rhetoric, might
be no more robust than the general public in resisting this provocation to
commit "serious criminal acts". Anyway, it will be some time before we discover
whether, following this promulgation of Savage's views, community relations
within the House of Lords suffer to the point that the case for exclusion is
proved.

You wonder, really, if it would not have been simpler for the government to let
the man in, then leave the task of persecuting, humiliating and hounding him
into silence to the merciless forces of Twitter and Facebook. Like Lord West,
many thousands of their members evidently believe that extreme obnoxiousness is
adequate pretext for censorship and they appear far less constrained by the need
for debate. Although online authoritarians have been slow to take decisive
action against, say, Islamist groups who demand that the stoning of gays and the
subjugation of women be introduced in the UK, they have proved themselves to be
fantastically swift and effective when individual illiberal opinions have
required shutting down.

In the celebrated case of Jan Moir, for example, which followed nasty comments
about the death of Stephen Gately, she was made to apologise within hours of a
Twitter mobbing that prompted 25,000 complaints to the Press Complaints
Commission. She remains the subject of an online petition: "Jan Moir should get
the sack!", in which signatories share concerns about her heartlessness. For
example: "I hope she has an unfortunate death like Stephen Gately as karma that
she deserves for her 'sleazy lifestyle'." Even connoisseurs of virtual rage had
seen nothing like this since hundreds of online readers monstered a Guardian
gap-year blog by a naive, teenaged student, Max Gogarty: a "tsunami of hate",
his father called it.

Fortunately for the well-being of Gogarty and Moir, virtuous fury appears to be
more capricious than government exclusion orders: the moving finger tweets and,
having twit, seeks out another enemy of the public good. Someone like Carol
Thatcher, with her stupid "golliwog" remark, or the unfortunate "Brumplum",
whose treasonous comments on Stephen Fry recently brought down extensive,
tweeted retribution ("Wanker. Hope you enjoy the whirlwind of shit that you've
invited").

Last week, it was the turn of my former G2 colleague, the columnist Rod Liddle,
following reports that he has been lined up to edit the Independent in the event
of its being bought by Alexander Lebedev. Intriguingly, it was not the prospect
of Lebedev, bearing a vast bouquet of P45s, that caused alarm in the
blogosphere, but a handful of Liddle's hundreds of columns, such as a grotesque
ad feminam attack in the Spectator which was, for many of us, an epiphany, the
first moment we had ever felt warmly towards Harriet Harman. A petition against
his appointment has at least 3,000 signatures. Having much enjoyed the
hospitality of Mr and Mrs Liddle, I'm in no position to pronounce on what he may
offer the Independent, but I can only wonder at the conviction among his online
critics that the Liddle worldview is so much less acceptable than those of other
editors, actual or potential. Possibly, unlike theirs, it has merely been
expressed in a style that is calculated, in the tradition of Julie Burchill and
the late Auberon Waugh, to enrage readers who do not find him amusing.

This unfortunate consequence of free speech has inspired a host of worthies,
including Diane Abbott, Sunny Hundal and Will Straw, to proclaim the importance
of columnist-containment. In "Left Foot Forward", his "political blog for
progressives", Master Straw boldly misrepresents one of the miscreant's pieces,
in order to attract new signatories to the "stop Liddle" campaign and thus
protect our wives and servants.

Perhaps, once this more pressing threat has receded, Straw Junior will take time
to reconsider the gagging of Islam4UK. Should it have been banned, being a
positive fountain of repulsive opinions, or are self-proclaimed enemies of
progressive politics best left to operate in the open, if what they do is legal,
the better to prove our country's absolute commitment to freedom of expression?
The group has never, after all, said anything rude about Harriet Harman.

Regrettably, no doubt, for those who are keener on the purification of public
discourse, online censors seem disinclined to regulate with any consistency. For
every squashed Moir, there is a rogue Anne Atkins, rap artist or imam, slagging
off gays with impunity. Even so, such victories will have an effect. Suspected
misogynists and homophobes, careless climate change sceptics and opponents of
mass immigration now know what might happen to their reputations, supposing they
can't attribute these thought crimes to religious observance. Public figures
will become ever blander in their views. So long as massed aggression passes
itself off as collective free speech, the exalted motives of an online mob will
trump any accusations of organised bullying and cruelty. These days, it piously
reminds us, the privilege of free expression carries with it a grave
responsibility: not to say anything people might not like.

Captions:

Rod Liddle is the latest columnist to feel the wrath of the blogosphere.

Photograph by

John Lawrence/Rex


LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 17, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Swine flu was a textbook case of a scare

BYLINE: CHRISTOPHER BOOKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 399 words


SO SWINE FLU - eventually found to be only a tenth as virulent as ordinary flu -
passes into history as yet another massive scare. Hyped out of all proportion by
drug companies and the World Health Organisation, this fooled our endlessly
gullible politicians into spending £1 billion on vaccines which turned out not
to be needed. Thus, quite predictably, did the swine flu panic follow the
classic pattern of so many other scares before it, as Dr North and I analysed in
our book on the phenomenon, Scared To Death. Tracing the history of many
examples, we showed how the most damaging point in any scare, from BSE and
salmonella in eggs to the Millennium Bug, comes when governments fall for the
hype, needlessly costing us all billions of pounds.

With perfect timing, the European Parliament last week shelled out 70,000 euros
on a propaganda exercise at Olympia, designed to turn children into "active EU
citizens". I was alerted to this shameless PR stunt by Gawain Towler, press
officer for the group in the Brussels parliament which includes the UK
Independence Party.

The EU's interactive game, dubbed "Crisis Point", asked children to imagine that
they were an MEP or a European Commissioner faced with a deadly new disease,
Xtreme Drug Resistant TB, which had sent Europe into meltdown. The players were
told they had just a day to choose from a range of strategies to save their
fellow European citizens from disaster. Clicking the buttons, Mr Towler soon saw
the point. If national governments were allowed to take unilateral action, the
screen showed that millions would die. But if the EU was allowed to assume
control, it would be possible to reduce the number of deaths to only a few
dozen.

This is what North and I dubbed "the beneficial crisis", whereby the EU has
repeatedly used some panic over health, energy, finance or terrorism to justify
seizing more power from national governments. A glaring instance was the Belgian
dioxins panic of 1999, which gave Brussels the excuse to take over from member
states all power to regulate on food safety. No sooner had it done so than the
hysteria over dioxins in Belgian chickens, which led to losses of £1 billion,
was found to have been completely baseless. But once again, the EU had succeeded
in the one thing it is really good at - sucking ever more power to the centre,
in order then, corruptly and very inefficiently, to misuse it.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 17, 2010 Sunday 3:44 PM GMT

Beware of opinion polls. Millions of people can't find a party they want to vote
for

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 565 words


It looks as though I rattled a few of the bars on several cages yesterday, so I
ought to say a bit more about the BNP. (I'll come to UKIP another day - and my
own party and New Labour, too.)

John Denham, the Secretary of State for Local Government and Communities
(another bit of PC mumbo-jumbo) must have been reading what you have been
writing here on this blog. The Government really is running scared of losing
seats not so much to the BNP, but because of the BNP, to other parties.

They need not have have waited this long to wake up to the problem. When I
condemned multiculturalism back in 1997, the modernisers tried to get me
expelled from the Conservative Party. When Trevor Phillips, Chairman of the
Commission for Racial Equality, said much the same sort of thing in 2006, Ken
Livingstone advised him to join the BNP.

More recently still, when I interviewed Trevor Phillips for The House Magazine
in January last year he told me that whilst he thought that discrimination
against women, the elderly and disabled, not to mention "ethnic and sexual hate
crime" were still serious issues, he was more worried about "the big and growing
problem of people stuck at the bottom of society ...and that is not to do with
race".

I do not think it did Trevor Phillips much good in the race relations industry
to say such things, least of all to me, and he has had to put up with a lot of
sniping from his "friends" since then.

However, whether it is because of me, Trevor Phillips, or the BNP, I am glad
that even this Government is becoming aware of the plight of poor white kids
denied decent schools, and of the fact some ethnic minorites (such as the
Chinese and Ugandan Asians) seem not to be held back by "racism". We should all
cheer at the sight of a sinner stumbling towards repentance, even if not virtue.

I thought that, as we are going to have one before very long, I might offer a
morsel or two of food for thought about elections.

Beware of the published polls telling us that the Conservatives are running at
about 40 per cent, Labour at 30, Lib Dems at 18 and 12 for the rest. There is
another big party out there called "None of the Above".

So here are some figures. The electorate in 1979 was 41.1 million. In 2005 it
was 44.1 million.On a very good day for Labour they made 13.9 million votes (in
1951, when the electorate was only 34.6 million). Well, it wasn't altogether a
good day - they lost.

On a very good day for the Tories they made 14.1 million in 1992.The Lib Dems
managed 6.0 million in 1992 and in 2005.Margaret Thatcher won in 1979 with 13.7
million. After eight years she won a third time with 13.8 million.

Tony Blair won in 1997 with 13.5 million. After eight years he won again with
9.5 million. You have to go back to the 1920s to find a government being elected
on less than that. Even when they lost in 1992, Labour polled 11.6 million. But
it only took Tony Blair eight years to turn 4.0 million Labour supporters off
voting.

So who on earth would want to be "the heir to Blair"?The Tories, by the way,
polled 9.6 million in 1997, 8.4 million 2001 and 8.8 million in 2005.

So where did all those Tory and Labour votes go? Nowhere. They belong to people
some of whom have died, but mostly to people who cannot find a party which
represents their views, and people who don't think it would make much difference
who won the election.

I find that worrying, don't you?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday

What happened to Conservative values?

BYLINE: Edward McMillan-Scottguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1032 words

ABSTRACT

Edward McMillan-Scott: Since I was expelled from the party for standing up to
extremism, Conservative MEPs have lost their way in Europe

FULL TEXT

David Cameron's controversial new European parliament group, which includes
extremist Poles and other ill-assorted individuals, was the brainchild and
creation of two British conservative nationalists: Daniel Hannan MEP and his
ally Mark Francois, a rightwing former Essex councillor. On Monday the MEPs'  -
on which I sit - may approve a taxpayer-funded (EURO)1.6m cross-frontier
political movement - based on the politically-incoherent group. This will be run
by Hannan, whom Francois imposed against the wishes of at least 10 other,
increasingly resentful, Tory MEPs.

Hannan gave up his MEP spokesmanship to campaign full-time for a British
referendum on the EU only days after this phoney idea was rejected by Cameron.
Hannan reveres Enoch Powell, decries the NHS on American TV, loathes the BBC,
calls Obama "exotic", is sceptical about climate change and apes Sarah Palin's
dangerous populism, but the Conservative party embraces him. Any party seeking
the middle ground should instead favour my brand of conservative
internationalism: Britain should lead in Europe not leave it.

After I stood and won re-election as European parliament vice-president with
cross-party support against the controversial Polish MEP Michal Kaminski,
breaking the Brussels consensus, the Conservative whip was withdrawn from me.
Kaminski's antisemitic words and deeds have been widely reported, most recently
by the BBC's .

I was  without notice or reason in September. There is no shame in losing the
whip on a point of principle: to be expelled for the same thing was
disproportionate and plainly against natural justice.

My appeal was heard by a panel of party office-holders and in-house lawyers last
month. The arguments raised on my side were compelling. But the panel dutifully
upheld my expulsion - until after the next European election in 2014. I wrote to
Cameron again last week, pointing out that I was taking legal advice, and have
made numerous private contacts with senior figures to arrive at an amicable
solution. All have failed.

My lawyers - the best in their field - say the expulsion was unconstitutional,
against natural justice and grossly disproportionate. Paul Daniels, a partner in
the leading firm of solicitors Russell Jones and Walker, has advised that I have
a clear action for breach of contract in the high court. This is not about me:
it is about the values of the next British government.

To put things in context, the only Conservative parliamentarians to have been
expelled recently were Lord Archer in 2001 for five years, following
imprisonment for perjury; and Den Dover last year, ex-MP and ex-MEP, who
allegedly misused more than £500,000 of his expenses. His expulsion was for only
two years. In the context of the Westminster expenses scandal, for which no
Conservative was expelled, or the serial disloyalty of Europhobes such as
Hannan, this will be seen by many as a serious case of double standards.

In my case (I am now 60) the party seeks to prevent my candidacy in the next
European election, merely for making a stand on matters of personal conscience.
This raises very serious ethical, legal and political issues.

As a Conservative party member for 42 years, an MEP for 25, leader of the MEPs
for four and a  member for three years, this is no longer the party I knew.

I will now sit as an Independent Conservative, continuing generally to follow
the Conservative whip in voting and serving my constituents as always without
regard to party. I told BBC Radio 4's Today programme the day after my
expulsion, "they can take me out of the Conservative party but they cannot take
the Conservative out of me," but even my loyalty is now stretched.

I stood against Kaminski because he represented the rise of disguised extremism
at a key moment in European politics - the start of a new European parliament
that saw gains by the far right in 13 out of 27 EU countries, including the BNP
in Britain. Last week, by chance on the day the party delivered its dubious
verdict, my aunt Diana Bailey revealed part of my personal motivation on the BBC
Radio 4 programme : the family secret since 1940 that my maternal grandparents
were interned by Winston Churchill as senior members of the British Union of
Fascists.

My whole political life has been dedicated to opposing totalitarianism and
especially the religious persecution it usually brings - for example in China
today. I give a voice to the voiceless as the first-ever vice-president with
responsibility for democracy and human rights.

The reputational damage of this saga is now being directed at Cameron himself.
The contemporary  starring Keira Knightley refers to Cameron's links with "the
European ultra-right" and "his grubby fascist friend". The play goes on to
attack the bullying tactics of Conservative press officers, of whom I have been
a target since June: "Withdraw your comment or we'll have your balls".

At some point, Cameron in government must return to traditional Conservative
values. He will need to find an accommodation with the mainstream Christian
Democrats and Conservatives in the European People's party, from all other 26
countries, and I intend to play my part in that.

Although I gave Cameron's group the benefit of the doubt based on a blind
pledge, the reality has been universally pilloried in the media - . It is so
marginalised that it failed to be entrusted with drafting , in areas where,
post-Lisbon, MEPs have real powers. Fortunately, the chair of the economic
committee is a sound British Lib Dem.

To avoid another Tory tragedy on Europe, David Cameron must stand up to the "
UKIP tendency". The Conservative pro-European voice needs to be heard again and
I intend to raise mine. Cameron was misled into the political adventure of the
new group by Daniel Hannan. If anyone should be expelled it is Hannan, not me.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UKIP woos white working class with call for total ban on burkas

BYLINE: Suzy Jagger

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 749 words


The UK Independence Party is to call for a ban on the burka and the niqab - the
Islamic cloak that covers women from head to toe and the mask that conceals most
of the face - claiming they affront British values. The policy, which a number
of European countries are also debating, is an attempt by UKIP to broaden its
appeal and address the concerns of disaffected white working-class voters. UKIP
would be the first national party to call for a total ban on burkas, though the
far-Right BNP believes they should be banned from schools.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the leader of UKIP, said yesterday: "We are taking
expert advice on how we could do it. It makes sense to ban the burka - or
anything which conceals a woman's face - in public buildings.

But we want to make it possible to ban them in private buildings. It isn't right
that you can't see someone's face in an airport."

He explained that UKIP wanted to bring to the fore the issue of the increasing
influence of Sharia in Britain: "We are not Muslim bashing, but this is
incompatible with Britain's values of freedom and democracy."

Nigel Farage, the former UKIP party leader, will announce tomorrow that the
party believes the fabric of the country is under threat from Sharia and that
forcing women to conceal their identity in public is not consistent with
traditional Britishness. UKIP believes that the burka and the niqab have no
basis in Islam, are a threat to gender equality, marginalise women and endanger
the public safety because terrorists could use them to hide their identity.

In the general election, UKIP hopes to build on success at the June European
polls when it secured the secondlargest share of the vote, more than 16 per
cent. It also hopes to win its first Westminster seats.

UKIP has been known primarily as a single-issue Eurosceptic party composed of
disaffected Tories. But over the next two months it plans to publish papers on a
number of policy areas such as welfare into work, transport, healthcare and tax.
Its manifesto will specify policy measures, - a clarity that UKIP says other
parties lack. UKIP has said that it would increase Britain's military budget by
40 per cent and bring back grammar schools. The party also believes that fewer
school leavers should go to university, and that the less academic teenagers
should be encouraged to learn a trade. It would also seek to revolutionise
teacher training. Lord Pearson said that the current process was "rotten".

Mr Farage, who stood down last year to fight the Buckingham seat held by John
Bercow, Speaker of the Commons, told The Times yesterday: "UKIP has always been
good at showing what it is against, but we are now trying to demonstrate to
voters how an independent Britain would be governed.

I am going to be talking about Britishness, about the national identity and the
genuine threat that Sharia law poses. Alarm bells should have sounded when the
Archbishop of Canterbury said that the adoption of Sharia law in the UK was
unavoidable." Two years ago Rowan Williams triggered a row over Sharia when he
argued that Britain had to "face up to the fact" that some of its citizens do
not relate to the British legal system and that adopting parts of Islamic law
would help to maintain social cohesion.

Mr Farage declined to be drawn on a proposed burka ban.

In France, President Sarkozy is trying to outlaw the wearing of full veils on
state premises such as university campuses and hospitals, and on public
transport. All the main French parties and most of the public are opposed to
women wearing full veils but, after six months of parliamentary hearings, it is
apparent that a blanket ban would be unworkable and likely to backfire.

Mr Sarkozy wants an all-party consensus to make clear that full veils contradict
French principles while avoiding measures that would stigmatise Muslims.

In Denmark, Conservatives in the coalition government have demanded a ban on the
burka and the niqab in public. In October 2009 the Muslim Canadian Congress
called for a ban on the burka and the niqab, arguing that they have "no basis in
Islam".

Inayat Bunglawala, a spokesman for the Muslim Council for Britain, told The
Times: "UKIP is supposed to be proud of Britain's traditions and values, which
include freedom or speech, association and religion.

"The overwhelming majority of women who wear the burka do so out of a sense of
religious duty. It is their interpretation of their religion. UKIP have no right
to overrule that. It is nobody else's business."

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A Muslim protest in Blackburn after Jack Straw said veils split
communities
CHRISTOPHER FURLONG / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

UK party seeks ban on burkas

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 28 words


The UK Independence Party is to seek a ban on the burka and the niqab, saying
that they affront British values. A ban is being debated in other European
countries. Page 32

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHRISTOPHER FURLONG/GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           January 16, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Veil of Ignorance;
UKIP's proposed ban on burkas is deeply cynical and wrong

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 541 words


There is a darkly comic moment in Harold Nicolson's diaries, when the author
sits down with his old ally Sir Oswald Mosley and discusses a uniform for his
New Party. Mosley says that he is thinking of black shirts. Nicolson, still
innocent of his friend's intention to turn the New Party into the British Union
of Fascists, suggests that perhaps members should wear grey flannels with a
marigold buttonhole.

The leadership of UKIP are almost certainly similarly ignorant of the path that
they are now treading. But their new policy of banning people from wearing the
burka is a step towards a very dark place indeed, for them and for their
followers. They should stop now, before it is too late.

The party leadership may share Nicolson's ignorance, but not his naivety. The
call to ban the burka is deeply cynical, for the political thinking behind their
policy is obvious. Very few people share UKIP's European obsession. Indeed, in a
recent poll only 3 per cent named the European Union as an important political
issue. Since UKIP's poll rating hovers at 4 per cent, this suggests that at
least a quarter even of the party's current supporters think it is being a bit
of a bore. So the party has decided to change the subject. It will campaign on
immigration.

It is, therefore, stirring racial discontent, for its own electoral benefit and
this is reprehensible. Calling for withdrawal from the EU is respectable, if
wrong-headed. Increasing fear and misunderstanding between communities is not.

The reasons it gives for its policy are transparently disingenuous. They claim
that the burka marginalises women. This is a new concern for UKIP. It is, after
all, the party of Godfrey Bloom, the MEP who says that "any small businessman or
woman who employs a woman of child-bearing age needs their head examined".
Perhaps Mr Bloom, who thinks that women do not clean behind the fridge enough,
worries that their burkas are getting in the way.

UKIP argues further that the burka has no place in Islam and that the religion
does not require it. The Times had not hitherto realised that Nigel Farage was
an authority on such matters, or that the party leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch,
who was visited by God when on the operating table in 1977, thereby gained not
only his Christian faith but also a mastery of the Koran. This newly acquired
scholarship notwithstanding, the religious insights of politicians are entirely
irrelevant when judging the right of British citizens to dress as they wish.

The most offensive UKIP assertion is that wearing the burka is inconsistent with
British values. Advocates of the policy then point out (without irony) that the
French, whose example is rarely cited elsewhere in UKIP literature, are trying
to implement a similar policy.

What is inconsistent with British values is picking on people quietly going
about their business in religious garb of their own choice and banning it. If
UKIP properly understood this country, it would appreciate that. There are
Islamists who doubtless wish to ban Eurosceptics wearing tweed jackets over
v-neck jumpers and checked shirts. And The Times would defend UKIP against such
calls because freedom to worship, and freedom of speech, is the British value
that matters above all others.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 14, 2010 Thursday 3:29 PM GMT

The Left-wing BNP could cost Labour seats at the general election

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 700 words


As promised, today I'm going to say something about the BNP, but first I thought
I should explain something to "Fabius", who wonders why, if I care about the
plight of the poor, I am a Conservative. Well, that answers itself. I care about
the poor not just because I was born one of them, but because they are very
expensive people to have about us, and they represent a tragic waste of human
material.

Given that socialism has a shocking record on wealth generation, let alone a
shocking record of creating authoritarian states, I could never be a socialist.
As to what Fabius calls the record of butchery in the British Empire, he must
find it odd that the descendants of those who survived our colonial rule come
flocking here to live, to work or to seek education.Nor does he seem to
understand that, across the world, the greatest butchers have been socialists:
Stalin, Pol Pot, Mao, Hitler - not a free market capitalist, low tax, small
government man among them.

Coming back to Britain and today, I can only presume that Fabius helped put the
present socialist government into office. He must be a happy chap as he looks at
its record.

I should tell "lickyalips" that I do not have any control or even any say over
whose comments are published on this site. Probably just as well, too.As to
climate change and the poll tax, we'll get to them sooner or later.

So what about the BNP? The trouble is that it is a national socialist party.
Take a look at its 2005 election manifesto. You won't find much about reducing
the power of the state and increasing that of the individual. It has a curiously
dated air of the 1960s and 1970s, with talk of controlling the commanding
heights of the economy and building barriers to trade. To be kind to the BNP,
one might call it a corporatist party. To put it more roughly, one might say
that it is a fascist party, a Left-wing authoritarian party. One thing is
certain. As a socialist party, the BNP can only be part of the problem, not part
of the solution.

It has but one thing in its favour. With a natural appeal to the core Old Labour
voters, together with its views on immigration, it could cost Labour seats at
the general election.No wonder that Jon Cruddas, Labour's most thoughtful and
intelligent Left-wing backbencher, has been sounding the alarm. His champagne
socialist colleagues may think high levels of immigration keep down the costs of
au pairs and cooks, but his white British constituents in socio-economic groups
D and E take a different view.

Although the polls put support for both the BNP and UKIP in single figures
nationally, the loss of votes from Labour to BNP may be more concentated into a
smaller number of constituencies than the Tories' loss to UKIP - but I suspect
that the bigger problem for both parties will be to get their usual supporters
out to vote.

So far as immigration is concerned, it has been the non-party Migration Watch
(whose figures have proved again and again to be more reliable than the spun
phoney statistics used by the Government) and the cross party group led by Frank
Field and Nicholas Soames which have forced the issue on to the front pages of
respectable newspapers and even the BBC.

Someone yesterday mentioned multiculturalism. That is enough to spoil anyone's
lunch. So perhaps we could agree here and now that the expression "multicultural
society" is a contradiction in itself. A society is defined by its culture.
Though, of course, one can have two societies with different cultures in one
territory. Sri Lanka is a good example of this, and the Middle East is another.

Having overcome rivalry between Protestants and Catholics, and learned to live
in harmony with the Jewish faith and other minority religions and cultures by
accepting a society based on Judaeo-Christian principles, we should be wary of
those who seek to implant a rival culture with its own legal systems and
standards of public behaviour to keep separate its followers from the mainstream
of our majority. Apartheid is made no better by being voluntary.

That's enough for now. I have some thoughts for my friends in our own Party who
wonderjust how we got ourselves stranded on "the middle ground" - but that is
for another day.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Strasbourg must keep out;
LEADER COLUMN

SECTION: LEADER; 12

LENGTH: 118  words


HOW depressing that judges sitting at the European Court of Human Rights in
Strasbourg were yesterday able to declare stop and search tactics used by
Britain's counterterrorist police illegal.

They will not have to suffer the consequences of the curtailment of police
anti-terror activity but the British public will.

There is no point in the political parties at Westminster complaining.

Unless any summons up the courage to pledge to remove Britain from this dismal
body's jurisdiction, any whining they engage in is purely academic.

Who will free us from Europe's turbulent beaks? At the moment the answer is,
alas, only the small fry of the UK Independence Party. It is time for the Tories
to grasp this nettle.

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Scandal of websites aiding foreigners to scrounge off Britain

BYLINE: By Padraic Flanagan

SECTION: NEWS; 22

LENGTH: 466  words


A BOOM in foreign websites offering advice on claiming generous UK benefits is
attracting thousands of East European scroungers to Britain, the Daily Express
can reveal.

In Poland firms are signing up selfemployed "National Insurance tourists" for
so-called consultancy jobs in Britain and giving them advice on how to make the
most of the health system and child welfare benefits.

A Daily Express investigation uncovered dozens of websites based in eastern
Europe giving in-depth advice on the range of benefits on offer in Britain - and
the comparatively large amounts available to be claimed.

The firms, which have branches in Britain, even advertise that they can help
negotiate bureaucratic red tape.

They apply on a client's behalf for child benefit, tax credit, maternity
allowance and housing help.

The websites explain about national insurance numbers, emergency tax codes and
the documents needed to get on the UK benefits gravy train. Yesterday's Daily
Express revealed how EU workers can access our pensions.

Businessman Ireneusz Klader boasts his firm Optigen has helped thousands of
self-employed cab drivers, hairdressers and builders who live and work in Poland
pay national insurance in the UK.

He said: "It's all entirely legal, they are working in consultancy jobs,
marketing my businesses by phone and internet and they are employed in the UK.
Under EU rules governing the free movement of peoples, these self-employed
people can legitimately pay their national insurance contributions in Britain.

"And if they contribute enough to the economy for the required length of time,
then they are perfectly entitled to make a claim for state benefits, including
the pension if they have been paying long enough."

He said his "employees" will get a National Insurance card and European health
insurance card. They may also try to claim child benefit and working tax credit
because they are classed as low earners. "Claiming such benefits requires the
submission of forms that are dealt with by our specialists in London who have
become highly experienced in handling Polish immigrants in Britain."

But, he added: "We offer our clients help to claim only those benefits to which
they are able to qualify, 100 per cent legally."

Gerard Batten, UKIP MEP for London, said "NI tourists" presented a challenge to
politicians claiming to be cracking down on immigration.

"This just goes to show that when we sub-contract immigration policy to the EU
we open ourselves to fraud.

We must take back control of our borders, " he said.

"There is no point promising to cut immigration numbers outside of the EU when
the Tories refuse to deal with immigration from the EU. Their promises on
immigration will be as threadbare as their EU promises.

Impossible for them to deliver and thus dishonest to promise at all."

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Yesterday's Daily Express and a Polish website detailing pension deals
here

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 13, 2010 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Ten-shun! Infighting among Whitehall's braves spells a
Tory stitchup for Stirrup

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 672 words


Stand to attention, you 'orrible little reader. Doncha know there's a war goin'
on? Not just in Afghanistan, either. Top Tories are gunning for Air Chief
Marshall Sir Jock Stirrup, chief of the defence staff. Why? For one thing he's
air force; and the army, which does most of the fighting these days, wants to
run the show again. For another he stitched up General Sir Richard Dannatt's
hopes of his job by getting a two-year extension from Labour, for whom he tries
to micro-manage the Afghan show from Whitehall. Dannatt's coming back as a Tory
minister, though not necessarily under flaky Liam Fox, who angered commanders in
Helmand by asking them: "Will most of the killing be over by the time we get
elected?" When Messrs Hague and Osborne made the same trip this month they took
Times editor James Harding, who came back fired up that Stirrup is "dead meat".
Not great for the troops' morale, say Labour MPs. But whoever wins will have to
butcher equipment budgets like the A400-M Airbus. And slash army numbers by 20%
to 80,000, say some.

Furtive Barclays twins - feudal lords on Brecqhou island and the Daily Telegraph
- may have inadvertently invaded their own cherished privacy in the Decanter
magazine. They hired the loquacious Bordeaux wine-maker, Alain Raynaud, to plant
five hectares of vines on land they own on neighbouring Sark. Global warming
permitting, it should yield chardonnays, chenin blancs, pinot gris and even a
sparkler to flog to visitors. Raynaud tells the discriminating wino's tip sheet
that he has completed soil and climate analysis: the omens are good. On the
other hand, he also seems to have persuaded himself, if not the taciturn twins,
that Sark is "on the same latitude as the (wine-kissed) Loire". Oh no, it isn't.

Manchester City's belated arrival in the Premier League's top four reminds
supporters of the prediction once made by Sir Howard "three brains" Davies at
the launch of the Westminster branch of the Man City supporters' club. The great
Mancunian warned listeners that their team "will only finally arrive when it is
like Manchester United - truly hated". Nearly there.

Modest Tory blogger Guido Fawkes is claiming "the first blog scalp of the
election". Greg Stone was forced to a step down yesterday as Lib Dem candidate
against Labour's chief whip, Nick Brown, in Newcastle. Stone's crime? Caught
anonymously abusing opponents like Brown and Hazel Blears ("How much Botox is
Blears on?") in hooligan online chatrooms like Guido's own. His claim is
disputed, but Fawkes, aka Paul Delaire-Staines, promises more such scalpettes.
He is also promoting Tory egghead Matthew D'Ancona as next editor of the Indie
instead of loutish Lothario Rod Liddle. Critics say D'Ancona looks too much like
the BNP's Nick Griffin to prosper. That may change if Barking's Ukip candidate,
boxing promoter Frank Maloney, has his way. He is challenging rival Barking
(barking?) candidate Griffin to a charity boxing match which the sitting MP,
Margaret Hodge, has offered to referee. "I'm completely impartial, holding each
in equal contempt," she says, hoping they "reduce one another to pulp". Alas,
Griffin is a Cambridge boxing blue. Watch it, Frank.

Also gunning for Patricia Hewitt (pictured) is Pat Arrowsmith, veteran (79) CND
pacifist and troublemaker. She recalls that the then Liberty boss, one P Hewitt,
called for her release when jailed for subverting soldiers, but barred the
office door in person after Arrowsmith escaped from prison and sought sanctuary
there.

In the crisis over Iris ("Ulster's Sarah Palin") Robinson's love life, bolshie
Stormont politicians might care to ponder their secretary of state's frame of
mind. Here's a clue: posh Shaun Woodward's weekend purchases in middle-class
John Lewis included a Salter professional knife sharpener, two grey plastic
washing-up bowls suitable for collecting spilt blood, and a Magimix food
processor suitable for disposing of chopped fingers. Don't panic yet. Playful
Shaun also bought a HUGE ostrich feather duster.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday

ASHTON GRILLED OVER CND PAST AND SAYS: 'I AM NOT ASHAMED'

BYLINE: DAILY MAIL REPORTER

LENGTH: 454 words


BRITAIN'S new EU foreign policy chief Baroness Ashton defended her past as a
campaigner against nuclear weapons in a three-hour grilling by Euro MPs
yesterday.

The Labour peer told the Brussels hearing of her membership of the Campaign for
Nuclear Disarmament, saying: 'I am not ashamed of what I am, and who I have
been.'

The session, to confirm her in the job of High Representative for Foreign
Affairs, saw her come under fire from Tory and UKIP MEPs.

Lady Ashton was mostly asked about her foreign policy plans and how she would
tackle key issues such as the Middle East, Iran, Iraq, Afghanistan.

But her role in CND nearly 30 years ago cropped up when Conservative MEP Charles
Tannock asked if she was still in favour of unilateral nuclear disarmament.

'The situation then is not relevant now,' she replied. 'Not least because the
European Union did not exist in the way it does now.'

She told Mr Tannock: 'You may disagree with what I did but don't try and label
what I did in the 1970s as something more than what it was.'

Lady Ashton, 53, joined CND in 1977 and is alleged to have been spied on by the
security services.

Later, UKIP MEP Lord Dartmouth claimed that, on the basis of her views at the
time, Eastern Europe would still be under Communist rule: 'Your judgment has
been hopelessly and demonstrably wrong. Are you the Edith Piaf of the commission
ñ "I regret nothing" ñ or are you going to recant these views and apologise to
the people you misled?'

Lady Ashton responded: 'I have never hidden what I did. When I was a young
person I marched because I wanted to abolish nuclear weapons. I never visited
Eastern Europe.

'We wanted to see a Europe that was free and here we have it.'

After the hearing Labour MEP Richard Howitt defended the peer.

He said: 'Tired and wholly false allegations about CND and the former Soviet
Union were a thinly disguised attempt to associate Cathy Ashton with
anti-Russian sentiment in the Parliament, and it fell totally flat.'

Mr Howitt said there had been 'sour grapes' when Lady Ashton was unexpectedly
named by EU leaders in November as their choice for the second most senior
political job in Brussels.

But the life peer, who will earn £239,000 a year as well as a raft of allowances
and perks in her role, suffered another difficult moment when she was forced to
admit to gaps in her knowledge.

When asked what she thought of calls for the EU to replace the UK and France in
the United Nations Security Council, she replied: 'I don't know.' The issue had
'not even crossed over into my thinking,' she said, adding: 'You've caught me
out.'

Lady Ashton is one of 26 EU Commissioners who each face a similar three-hour
'job interview' before MEPs vote to confirm their roles on January 26.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Letters & emails

SECTION: LETTERS; 26

LENGTH: 139 words


I WAS fascinated to hear David Cameron's speech this weekend and to learn how he
thinks his aims for change can be achieved.

Just how does he intend to take away responsibility from the European Parliament
for major matters such as farming, fishing, immigration VAT, employment
legislation etc etc.

There is a whole raft of issues this country's government has no say over as we
have relentlessly given away our powers to the EU.

I am not sure whether Cameron understands that. I'm not sure whether he is naive
or incredibly stupid.

GODFREY BLOOM, UKIP Euro MP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire

WHEN Gordon brown said "British jobs for British workers" that was a slip of the
tongue. He meant to say "British jobs for anyone smart enough to take advantage
of our weak, useless, non-existent immigration controls". OK?

A STILL, Ilford, Essex.

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 12, 2010 Tuesday

International: Solid, decent - but uninspired: baroness makes EU debut: First
high representative shrugs off MEPs' grilling with quiet diplomacy

BYLINE: Ian Traynor, Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 687 words


Europe opened a new year and a new era yesterday: a new commission, a new
treaty, a new rule book - and a new baroness.

Lady Ashton, veteran of UK quangos and international trade talks, went into the
chamber in Brussels to show the EU she has what it takes to be the face and
voice of European foreign policy, and emerged three hours later unscathed and
victorious.

The grilling ranged from Eritrea to Hillary Clinton, from her youthful zeal as a
ban-the-bomber to her mature views on making the world a better place. But
nothing could faze her.

As Europe's new top diplomat, Ashton acquitted herself extremely diplomatically.
Britain's representative on the new 27-strong commission caused minimum offence.
Equally, she inspired minimum enthusiasm.

"I disappointed some of you a little today, maybe a lot today," she noted with
the self-deprecation that comes naturally to the Labour peer but which is also
being honed as a political and negotiating tactic.

In the end, said Elmar Brok, the long-serving German Christian Democrat, "this
is the basis for further co-operation, but no reason for enthusiasm".

Ashton went to room Jan 4Q2 in the shiny, sprawling European parliament in
Brussels to kick off the five-year season in EU politics at the democratic high
point of a system routinely excoriated for its lack of accountability. She was
the first of 26 new commissioners-designate to be put through a three-hour, US
Senate-style hearing by MEPs. Under the new regime created by the Lisbon treaty,
the parliament is more powerful. And don't those MEPs know it.

Ashton stroked and cuddled them: "You are democratically elected and I am not. I
absolutely respect that . . . I hope you'll always find my door open."

The surprise choice to be the EU's first high representative for foreign and
security policy - she was shocked when Gordon Brown was out-manoeuvred into
nominating her for the job last month - Ashton has spent the holiday season
boning up on the world's trouble spots and seeking to master the detail of
everything from the clans of Nagorno-Karabakh to the tribes of Yemen.

At times yesterday, the questioning appeared to be a conversation among European
nobles, despite Ashton's humble Lancastrian roots. A German count told a British
baroness he was sorry about her apparent lack of ambition, while a British lord
accused her of being on the wrong side of history, the EU's very own Edith Piaf
(Je ne regrette rien).

The only sparks to fly in the entire three hours were a very British affair,
with the chaps from the Conservative caucus and Ukip invoking Ashton's CND days
in the 1970s to tar her as a crypto-communist and KGB stooge.

If Ashton was bland and competent most of the time, the personal attacks brought
out the best in her, winning her a rare round of applause.

"I am not a member of CND and have not been for 28 or 29 years," she told
Charles Tannock, the Tory MEP, who demanded a straight yes or no answer to
whether she remained a unilateral disarmer. "I do not believe that strategy is
now appropriate."

From the Middle East to the White House, from Iran to Russia, from China to
Afghanistan, however, there was no lucid presentation of priority, no clue of
what she wanted, little sign of whether she saw her role as master or servant.

One MEP told Ashton the parliament did not want her to be "an ambassador for 27
foreign ministers. What are your criteria? What are your ambitions? That's what
we're still waiting for."

Another told her: "We want more for you than you want for yourself."

Ashton failed to rise to the occasion. She replied that her paramount aims were
the promotion of security and stability in their various senses. She left no
hostages to fortune by revealing her personal politics. She was decent,
competent, conciliatory and solid.

If Jose Manuel Barroso's second commission falls, it will not be because of
Baroness Ashton of Upholland.

"When I talk about quiet diplomacy, this does not necessarily mean that I myself
am very quiet," she said. "My interest is in outcomes. Sometimes loudness
doesn't work."

Captions:

Lady Ashton arriving at the hearing Photograph: Thierry Roge/Reuters

LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 11, 2010 Monday

Solid, decent - but uninspired: Catherine Ashton makes EU debut

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 740 words

ABSTRACT

First high representative shrugs off MEPs' grilling with quiet diplomacy

FULL TEXT

Europe opened a new year and a new era today: a new commission, a new treaty, a
new rule book - and a new baroness.

Lady Ashton, veteran of UK quangos and international trade talks, went into the
chamber in Brussels to show the EU she has what it takes to be the face and
voice of European foreign policy, and emerged three hours later unscathed and
victorious.

The grilling ranged from Eritrea to Hillary Clinton, from her youthful zeal as a
ban-the-bomber to her mature views on making the world a better place. But
nothing could faze her.

As Europe's new top diplomat, Ashton acquitted herself extremely diplomatically.
Britain's representative on the new 27-strong commission caused minimum offence.
Equally, she inspired minimum enthusiasm.

"I disappointed some of you a little today, maybe a lot today," she noted with
the self-deprecation that comes naturally to the Labour peer but which is also
being honed as a political and negotiating tactic.

In the end, said Elmar Brok, the long-serving German Christian Democrat, "this
is the basis for further co-operation, but no reason for enthusiasm".

Ashton went to room Jan 4Q2 in the shiny. sprawling European parliament in
Brussels to kick off the five-year season in EU politics at the democratic high
point of a system routinely excoriated for its lack of accountability. She was
the first of 26 new commissioners-designate to be put through a three-hour, US
Senate-style hearing by MEPs. Under the new regime created by the Lisbon treaty,
the parliament is more powerful. And don't those MEPs know it.

Ashton stroked and cuddled them: "You are democratically elected and I am not. I
absolutely respect that ... I hope you'll always find my door open."

The surprise choice to be the EU's first high representative for foreign and
security policy - she was shocked when Gordon Brown was out-manoeuvred into
nominating her for the job last month - Ashton has spent the holiday season
boning up on the world's trouble spots and seeking to master the detail of
everything from the clans of Nagorno-Karabakh to the tribes of Yemen.

At times today, the questioning appeared to be a conversation among European
nobles, despite Ashton's humble Lancastrian roots. A German count told a British
baroness he was sorry about her apparent lack of ambition, while a British lord
accused her of being on the wrong side of history, the EU's very own Edith Piaf
(Je ne regrette rien).

The only sparks to fly in the entire three hours were a very British affair,
with the chaps from the Conservative caucus and Ukip invoking Ashton's CND days
in the 1970s to tar her as a crypto-communist and KGB stooge.

If Ashton was bland and competent most of the time, the personal attacks brought
out the best in her, winning her a rare round of applause.

"I am not a member of CND and have not been for 28 or 29 years," she told
Charles Tannock, the Tory MEP, who demanded a straight yes or no answer to
whether she remained a unilateral disarmer. "I do not believe that strategy is
now appropriate."

Strategy loomed large in Ashton's performance. There was the "coherent
strategy", the "strategic framework", the "strategic relationship".

If an issue was not strategic, it was "critical", "hugely important", "very
significant", "very challenging". From the Middle East to the White House, from
Iran to Russia, from China to Afghanistan, however, there was no lucid
presentation of priority, no clue of what she wanted, little sign of whether she
saw her role as master or servant.

One MEP told Ashton the parliament did not want her to be "an ambassador for 27
foreign ministers. What are your criteria? What are your ambitions? That's what
we're still waiting for."

Another told her: "We want more for you than you want for yourself."

Ashton failed to rise to the occasion. She replied that her paramount aims were
the promotion of security and stability in their various senses.

She did not dazzle the MEPs with brilliance, rhetoric, or insights. She left no
hostages to fortune by revealing her personal politics. She was decent,
competent, conciliatory and solid.

If José Manuel Barroso's second commission falls, it will not be because of
Baroness Ashton of Upholland.

"When I talk about quiet diplomacy, this does not necessarily mean that I myself
am very quiet," she said. "My interest is in outcomes. Sometimes loudness
doesn't work."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                                January 10, 2010
                                 First Edition

Being Frank;
Alan Hubbard speaks to Frank Maloney He guided lennox Lewis to boxing glory
before the suicide of a star signing hit him hard - now the biggest fight of his
life is battling the BNP

BYLINE: Alan Hubbard

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1658 words


Nick Griffin boxed a bit when he was at Cambridge, winning a Blue (light, not
dark of course) but he may have a real fight on his hands from someone who knows
rather more about bloodying noses when he tries to win Barking for the BNP at
the next election.

Boxing promoter Frank Maloney, who is standing against the BNP leader as the
UKIP candidate, has already beaten him to the punch, challenging him to come
fist-to-face in the ring, for charity, before their bout at the ballot box.
Griffin hasn't responded, of course, but Maloney, who had 69 amateur fights
before becoming a promoter, impishly reckons he would beat him black and blue,
so to speak. Naturally, it is a publicity stunt. But that's the name of little
Frank's game and he's already ahead on points.

So Barking's big fight beckons, though some think the 55-year-old, 5ft 4in
Maloney is barking for even contemplating a career in politics after
unsuccessfully running against Ken Livingstone (he finished fourth) for London
Mayor five years ago.

In his office down an alleyway off Chislehurst High Street in Kent, up two
flights of rickety stairs, Maloney sits in a boxing glove-shaped settee
surrounded by fistic memorabilia, including Lennox Lewis's world heavyweight
title-winning shorts and a gorilla-like Don King doll, and explains why he'll be
a hustler at the hustings. "I am very passionate about politics," he says. "A
lot of things I see in this country annoy me. What's happened over the last five
or six years hasn't been good and it's right for a change. UKIP are a party
which cares about Britain. I look at the politicians today and they are in it
for themselves and not the people. I wanted to stand here in Chislehurst, which
is where I got my best results when I ran for Mayor, but they already had a
candidate so they asked if I'd be interested in taking on Griffin in Barking and
I jumped at it because I detest him, the BNP and everything it stands for.

"If you take out race and religion, they've got nothing worthwhile to say; they
are just fucked. I spoke to a friend of mine who is very big in politics and he
said there couldn't be a better place to stand with my profile and the type of
campaign I'll run. UKIP think I'll surprise people because the sitting MP,
Margaret Hodge, is very unpopular over the expenses row. Also I am well known in
that area, and I have run shows in Barking as well as Dagenham and Romford."

But, he says, what he really wants to do is give Griffin a good hiding. "I've
never met him, but I don't like what he says. Yes, there is prejudice in this
country, but it's a prejudice that is controlled, and we have to learn to live
together. His philosophy is one of a pure white racist, he is like a Nazi. I
spent quite a lot of Christmas reading their website and it's bullshit.

"Having Irish blood in me, I know my family were first persecuted when they
first came to this country. I remember my father telling me that when I was
born, they didn't have anywhere to live and when they were looking for places,
there were signs that said: 'No Blacks, No Irish and No Dogs'. So it's a big
issue for me and

we must stand up against it." But isn't he a bit right-wing himself? "Yeah, I am
slightly, but not extreme. More like inside right. I know David Cameron calls
UKIP nutters and fruitcakes but he's trying to be something to everybody. He's
Tony Blair in a different suit with a different smile."

In the event of him becoming an MP, what would happen to his boxing business,
one that almost cost him his livelihood, and his life, last year? "That would
continue. My office would run itself. I have good people here. If I did get
elected, parliament would know it. I would question everything. The arrogance of
some of the politicians is unbelievable when all people want is honest answers."

Always a little man with big ideas, the cheeky chappie from Del Boy territory in
Peckham, south London, seems to have a penchant for being in the middle of
maelstroms - and there were plenty swirling around him last year, his 25th as a
peripatetic promoter. "I was glad to see 31 December," he admits. "I wouldn't
wish what happened last year on my worst enemy in boxing - and believe me, I've
got a few. It was probably the worst of my life." It was certainly one ravaged
by tragedy and trauma, encompassing the suicide of one of his star signings -
the Irish Olympic bronze medallist middleweight Darren Sutherland, whom Maloney
found hanging in the fighter's flat in Bromley - his own heart attack, which
followed an apoplectic outburst over a scandalous decision against his
heavyweight John McDermott, and financial losses on several of his shows which
almost closed him down.

Maloney learned he "died" for 30 seconds on the operating table. "Later they
told me that I'd got a damaged heart and this may have dated back to the Lennox
Lewis days because of all the stress and strain. I was a walking time-bomb, and
if I hadn't gone to hospital when I did, I wouldn't be here. My arteries had
closed up. When I was coming round and started looking at my bank account, I
thought, bloody hell, I have let myself go. Then my broker phoned me and told me
I had quite a lump sum to come as I had a critical illness insurance policy I
didn't know about. I decided to put the money into the company and that has
steadied the ship. Now I do believe with the boxers I've got [including
Olympians David Price, Tony Jeffries and Rendall Munroe, the boxing binman] it
will all come good."

But he believes his biggest hit since Lewis would have been Sutherland, whom he
signed after the Irishman lost to James DeGale in the Olympic semi-final. "I
would have put my house on him being a superstar. But as time passed I began to
notice something different about him. He didn't seem to be the person he was
when I first saw him. I still haven't fathomed out what went wrong. Maybe it
will all come out at the inquest next month. I think there was basically
something wrong with him from the start and I wasn't told about it. There was a
background we didn't know about." He says he still has nightmares about making
the grim discovery that September afternoon, and continues to receive
counselling. "The memory of finding him hanging there in that flat will be with
me forever."

Maloney points to another pair of shorts in a picture frame on a wall in his
office. "They were Darren's from his first pro fight with me. Sometimes I think
I should take it down to erase the memory but I can't do it because it's part of
what's made me. He's the one I put everything into. For about eight or nine
weeks after Darren's death I couldn't work, I was just sitting here like a
zombie going through the motions. But now I am back with my finger on the pulse
and this political challenge has helped me."

Which brings us back to the forthcoming Barking punch-up. I remind him that
during his Mayoral election bid he was accused of Griffin-like racism. "That was
ridiculous," he snorts. "There were black members of my campaign team. Just look
at the support I have from my black fighters." Fair enough, but didn't he make
remarks that were deemed homophobic? ("I don't think gays do a lot for
society...I don't want to see gay policemen walking hand in hand...I'd ban gay
pride marches.") "Yeah, I said certain things about gays but to quote [US
promoter] Bob Arum, 'then I was lying, today I am telling the truth.'

"I have looked at everything I said and I know it will come out of the woodwork,
but I was inexperienced then and I suppose I just wanted to make people know I
was there. It was very silly and in boxing, of course, as a promoter, you often
say something outrageous to get publicity. What I said was wrong, I don't have a
problem with gay people but I hold my hands up and say I am against same-sex
marriages and same-sex parents, I won't change my view on that. If you're gay,
you're gay. It's not an issue with me. Those remarks were a little bit stupid.
I've grown up since then. Once I get out there and start talking to people, they
will get to know me because I am quite a warm personality. I will argue my
corner and I love solving problems.

"My ambitions now are to produce a couple of world champions, win a seat in
parliament, and maybe become leader of UKIP. I think I am someone who can relate
to the public and help change the face of politics in this country."

So will that Union Jack-the-lad suit we saw so often before he and Lewis split
up after 12 years in 2001 be brought out of the closet again? "Nah. I don't want
to be seen as a joke character. I'm a serious contender and I'm going in to
start throwing some heavy punches." Not for the first time, Nasty Nick had
better get ready to duck.

NO BALONEY

From priest to jockey to old-school promoter

In his youth, Frank Maloney trained for the priesthood but quit and tried,
unsuccessfully, to be a jockey and a footballer before becoming a chef and
publican. He boxed as an amateur, trained fighters professionally and, for 25
years, has been what he calls "an old-school promoter". Twice in partnership
with Frank Warren, he now says of him: "We don't exactly see eye to eye but I
respect him as a promoter. In fact, he's the only one I see as a rival." Maloney
took Lennox Lewis (above, right) from six-round fights in Hull, Gateshead and
York Hall to the world heavyweight title in Las Vegas and Madison Square Garden
before their famous Little and Large act ended in a lawsuit. He initially
promoted David Haye, who also walked away, and he says of the trend of fighters
to self-promote: "Unfortunately when they become superstars earning millions
they start to think promoters are ripping them off, but what they forget is the
work that goes on behind the scenes to get them where they are." Twice married,
with three daughters and two grandchildren, he is a Millwall fan "because it's
fun and I like the atmosphere. If I wanted to watch football, I would probably
go to Arsenal."

Alan Hubbard

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IS


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                January 10, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Off the rails;
DASHWOOD

BYLINE: Lawrie Holmes

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 138 words


STEVE Hilton, the Tory strategy director who was reportedly fined £80 for firing
expletives at train staff, was following a fine political tradition.

British Transport Police said that he had been arrested for swearing at staff at
Birmingham New Street station after the party's 2008 conference, then
de-arrested and issued with an £80 penalty notice for disorder.

Not quite in the league of UKIP head of comms Adrian Lithgow, who was arrested
at Victoria station the previous year after he threatened a worker with an
umbrella before hurling a abuse and a pasty at the man. Lithgow, now a PR
adviser to a Lloyds Bank shareholder group. was fined £60 and ordered to pay
£400 compensation plus £60 costs.

It seems that politics and late rail journeys just do not mix.

ONLINE

Read Jonathan Russell's daily diary

telegraph.co.uk/city diary

LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

A blizzard of lies and spin;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 36

LENGTH: 705  words


WOULDN'T it be great if our politicians could rise to the level of events?

Some hope! In five months we shall have an election and many home truths need to
be faced.

Government spending is a runaway train heading for the buffers but are the
engine drivers desperately trying to apply the brakes? Not likely. Messrs Brown
and Darling are shovelling more and more fuel into the boiler.

Government borrowing has ballooned from GBP 519billion a year in 2005 to GBP
671bn today.

Where's this money coming from? Not from us or foreign investors. The Treasury
just prints IOUs (Government bonds) and sells them to the nationalised Bank of
England, which then prints the money to buy them.

That is so-called "quantitative easing". US financier Bernie Madoff is now
serving 150 years in prison for a less brazen fraud.

Both major political parties ought to tell us in words of one syllable how
they'll tackle this. So far, we have seen only the start of a campaign of lies
and spin.

Last week, Alistair Darling produced another "dodgy doss ier", claiming that the
Tories have a GBP 34bn "black hole" in their spending plans. A better criticism
of Tory plans is that they are far too modest and do not begin to address the
avalanche of Government debt which threatens to engulf them if elected.

More than two years ago, when Northern Rock crashed, I wrote that Brown was
finished. That is now obvious to veryone but suicidal Labour MPs. After 13 years
of disastrous wars and economic catastrophe, Labour's credibility is zero. Their
lies and spin are a substitute for confronting reality and an xpression of
contempt for voters.

David Cameron's ories could hardly fail to be an improvement.

Yet, sadly, they also leave much to be desired.

Three years ago, our national debt was less than 30 per cent of national ncome.
The International Monetary Fund now predicts it will be 100 per cent in five
years. The markets are getting nervous about the ability of Brita in 's
politicians to rein in reckless spending.

Last week Pimco, one of the world's largest investment houses, announced that it
will be a net seller of UK bonds this year, presaging interest rate rises before
we are out of recession. Binge drinking is a problem for some people but this
Government's binge spending is a problem for us all.

So far, even the Tories have produced no credible plans to deal with it.
Terrified of being attacked as "uncaring" they deny what we all know must be
done:

spending must be slashed and there is no room for sacred cows.

Cameron's latest poster campaign says he will "cut the deficit, not the NHS".
NHS spending has doubled to GBP 100bn a year since 1997. Does anyone really
believe that money has produced a proportionate increase in patient care? If
not, the NHS's endemic organisational inefficiency ought to be addressed.

Education is another area overdue for a hard-nosed look.

The Government is committed to providing university places for 50 per cent of
all school leavers.

Why? Many so-called "universities" award degrees not worth the paper they are
printed on.

Similarly, basic educational standards in schools have plummeted. "Grade
inflation" tries to disguise the lamentable truth that thousands of teenagers
can barely read and write after 10 years of full-time schooling yet no major
politician will take the radical action necessary to cut spending and improve
results.

The EU costs us tens of billions a year in cash transfers, regulation and red
tape yet Cameron reneged on his "cast-iron pledge" for a referendum on the new
EU Constitution.

AHUGE no vote could have been used to negotiate reductions in the EU's burdens
on us as part of a long-term plan to roll back state interference. By breaking
his word, Cameron not only missed a trick to help sort out Britain's economic
problems but devalued the coin of his own trustworthiness.

The recession is a heaven-sent opportunity to make long-term changes to roll
back the state, while this year's election offers a chance to clear out this
failed and discredited political class.

In 2005, only six voters in 10 bothered to vote and many who did turned to
parties such as UKIP. With MPs' reputations at rock bottom, more and more voters
may join the exodus from the old parties this time round.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HELPLESS:
Alistair Darling won't tackle spending

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 10, 2010 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

A blizzard of lies and spin;
LEADER

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: LEADER; 37

LENGTH: 666  words


WOULDN'T it be great if our leading politicians could rise to the level of
events? Some hope! In five months, we shall have a general election and many
home truths need to be faced.

Government spending is a runaway train heading for the buffers but, are the
engine drivers desperately trying to apply the brakes? Not likely. Messrs Brown
and Darling are shovelling more and more fuel into the boiler.

Government borrowing has ballooned from GBP 519billion a year in 2005 to GBP
671billion today.

Where's this money coming from? Not from us or foreign investors. The Treasury
just prints IOUs (Government bonds) and sells them to the nationalised Bank of
England, which then prints the money to buy them.

That is so-called "quantitative easing". Crooked US financier Bernie Madoff is
now serving 150 years in prison for a less brazen fraud.

Both major political parties ought to tell us in words of one syllable how they
intend to bring this runaway train under control.

So far, we have seen only the start of a campaign of lies and spin.

Last week, Alistair Darling produced another "dodgy dossier", claiming that the
Tories have a GBP 34billion "black hole" in their plans for Government spending.
Actually, many of the items in the dossier are not spending promises at all.

Others, like saving GBP 3billion a year from cutting bureaucracy are obviously
achievable. A better criticism of Tory plans is that they are far too modest and
do not begin to address the avalanche of Government debt which threatens to
engulf them if elected in June.

More than two years ago, when Northern Rock crashed, I wrote in this paper that
Brown was finished. That is now painfully obvious to everyone but suicidal
Labour MPs, still clinging to the hopeless loser like limpets on a sunken hull.
After 13 years of disastrous wars and mounting economic catastrophe, their
credibility is zero.

Their lies and spin are a substitute for confronting reality. They are also an
expression of contempt for the voters, whom they obviously think too stupid or
gullible to see through them.

David Cameron's Tories could hardly fail to be an improvement.

Yet, sadly, they also leave much to be desired. Three years ago, our national
debt was less than 30 per cent of national income.

The International Monetary Fund now predicts it will be 100 per cent in five
years.

The markets are getting nervous about the ability of Britain's politicians to
rein in reckless spending.

Last week, Pimco, one of the world's largest investment houses announced that it
will be a net seller of UK bonds this year, presaging interest rate rises before
we are out of recession.

Binge drinking is a problem for some people but this Government's binge spending
is a problem for us all. So far, even the Tories have produced no credible plans
to deal with it. Terrified of being attacked as "uncaring", they deny what we
all know must be done: government spending must be slashed and there is no room
for sacred cows.

The EU costs us tens of billions a year in direct cash transfers, regulation and
red tape. Yet Cameron recently reneged on his "cast-iron pledge" for a
referendum on the new EU Constitution (aka Lisbon treaty).

An overwhelming no vote by the British people could have been used to negotiate
reductions in the EU's burdens on us as part of a long-term plan to roll back
excessive State interference.

By breaking his word on a referendum, Cameron not only missed a trick to help
sort out Britain's economic problems but devalued the coin of his own
trustworthiness.

The recession is a heaven-sent opportunity to make long-term changes to roll
back the State, as Mrs Thatcher did in the Eighties.

Today's politicians squandered her legacy. This year's election offers a chance
to clear out this failed and discredited political class. In 2005, only six
voters in 10 bothered to vote and many who did turned to parties like UKIP as a
refuge.

With MPs' reputations at rockbottom, more and more voters may join the exodus
from the old parties next time round.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Chancellor Alistair Darling produced another "dodgy dossier"

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            January 9, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Your shout Political parties

BYLINE: Mark Bridge

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 417 words


A comment piece by James Charles this week pointed out that, "after a decade of
left-of-centre government, a growing disparity has emerged between the haves and
the have-nots: 4.6 million households are now in fuel poverty". A number of
readers posted their thoughts online - most attacking Labour's leadership.

Roland Craggs, for example, wrote: "Labour has not been 'left-of-centre' since
Neil Kinnock. Its policies of privatisation and light-touch regulation are
distinctly right-wing. If they were still 'lefties', they would have embarked on
a course of renationalisation. They can't even be called centre Right: they are
Right - but not correct.

"However, Left and Right alone are too vague to describe modern political
movements. There is a second axis of authoritarian and anarchist. Labour,
Conservatives and Lib Dems all sit in the right-wing authoritarian quadrant.
Until this is understood, people will continue to misdiagnose the problem. There
is no difference between the big three. They quibble over minutiae, but there is
no scope for real change. The future lies in the emerging parties."

Ken Miller agreed: "Roland makes a valid point. But new parties at Westminster,
including the UK Independence Party, the Greens, the British National Party et
al, will emerge only under proportional representation. The Labour/Tory
stranglehold will remain under first-past-the-post. We are the only country in
Western Europe that doesn't have a form of proportional representation to elect
its government."

However, John Harding was concerned about what some of these "new" parties stand
for. "I fear that many of the little parties mentioned are reflecting another
lobby or vested interest, sometimes based on irrational and emotional dislikes
of something or someone; this last often reflecting an unadmitted belief that
'others' are 'doing me down'.

"This reflects the selfish nature of humans who support those who offer them and
their immediate group what they think is the best deal for them personally

Meanwhile, Bob Taylor thought that party-based concerns were missing the point.
"The real problem with UK politics is not party-based. It is that the corporates
are running the country. The electorate has no chance of changing anything. Why
else would all the manufacturing have gone East? Thank goodness that in Europe
they still have proper manufacturing and truly socialist governments that
actually stand up to the corporates."

Mark Bridge

'There's no difference between the big three parties'

LOAD-DATE: January 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 8, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Lay off UKIP - we're more than a single-issue party

SECTION: LETTERS; 39

LENGTH: 148  words


WITHOUT wishing to instigate a tit-for-tat debate on the merits or otherwise of
voting UKIP, I must take strong issue with Keith Smith (Letters, January 7), who
believes that a diluted vote would let in Labour again. I presume that Mr Smith
supports the Conservatives, and indeed in my area the Tories are already jumping
on the bandwagon castigating UKIP. Are they actually running scared of us?

The attempt to portray UKIP as a 'single-issue' party is an old chestnut. I can
assure Mr Smith we have a full range of policies, as do the other parties.

Our whole manifesto is obviously built around eventually leaving the EU, which
is costing the nation upwards of GBP 45million per day.

We have firm and costed proposals to utilise this money in the form of higher
pensions, safeguarding the NHS, building more prisons and employing more police,
among other things.

David Pickles, Belmont, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             January 8, 2010 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Welcome y'all to Tory heaven. Lots of luck and lots of
friends and loads of cash

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 660 words


Oh, what it is to be a Tory today, as the Labour snowstorm plotters face the
ignominy of failure and Gordon increasingly looks like a general deserted by his
army. The prospect of David Cameron in No 10 draws closer. What would that be
like? Well, we know he would have the support of the monied types. City firms
gave the Conservatives almost £6m in just the first nine months of last year,
almost half of the £13.5m raised by the Tory leader. Ex-hedge fund "godfather"
Stanley Fink has given a million of his own, and the fundraiser threatens to
blow Gordon "out of the water". Yes it's good to have friends. No shortage of
them, it seems, and another generous adherent to the cause we see is David
Burnside, the PR man and former Ulster Unionist politician. According to the
latest returns from the Electoral Commission, his firm New Century Media coughed
up £13,500 to the Conservatives. And where did that come from? Good honest
business. One recent high-profile client, it is said, has been Fred "the Shred"
Goodwin, the former boss of Royal Bank of Scotland, who apparently hired New
Century Media to buff up his troubled reputation. All good friends, pulling
together.

So with the failure of the plot comes the now traditional defenestration of the
plotters. Abuse, cold shouldering, character assassination. That will be the
least of it. Some suggest that Geoff Hoon, having been passed over by Gordon for
the nomination he sought at the European commission, was motivated by malice and
thoughts of revenge. Others say that is just not like him. Janey Buchan, now 83,
served alongside Hoon as an MEP in 1984 and she well remembers the man of the
moment. "His reputation was that of a smart arse know-all," recalls Janey. "He
would use other people's faces as a stepladder to get what he wanted." We tried
to get her to say whether she was for or against him. To no avail.

Of course we know that the Euro nomination went instead to Cathy Ashton, who has
since been promoted to high representative for foreign affairs, and thus next
week will be a painful one for Hoon as she takes the limelight on Monday
afternoon for the all-important confirmatory hearing. It is understood that the
opposition parties in Brussels - Tories, Lib Dems and especially the wild ones
in Ukip - have been busy this week plotting what lines of attack they can use to
discomfort Gordon's sidekick. There will be more about her time at CND and
probably fiery accusations - already denied - about shadowy donations from the
Soviets. But no one will lay a glove. She is, as she told an earlier hearing,
"very intelligent". Geoff, meanwhile, will be holed up here, making calls and
finding that few of them are answered. It's an existence but it's no kind of
life.

And what of the other snowstorm plotter. How can Patricia Hewitt escape
retribution in the wild and crazy days to come? Well, she should have a care
because among her other duties (MP for Leicester West, plotter, adviser to
Alliance Boots and Cinven which owns Bupa), she is an independent non-executive
director of BT's group board. Did she consider her duty to a major UK FTSE
company before seeking to destabilise the UK's elected government?, mutter some
Labour MPs between the dark threats and foul oaths. Perhaps she did. Maybe
that's why she did it.

Finally, is there anything to suggest that Silvio Berlusconi (pictured), fresh
from being whacked in the face with a statuette and much troubled by claims of
sexual misdemeanour, has learned any kind of valuable lesson? During a trip to
Saint Paul de Vence in the French Riveria this week, Silvio picked up a
lithograph of President Obama as Superman but also a few keepsakes, most notably
four bronzed figurines. "These are saucy nudes. You could call them sensual,"
said Loic Deltour of the gallery of Vladimir Rustinoff and Joel Guyot, revealing
all to the Parisien. Bloodied but unbowed. Fearless, steadfast, self-knowing.
That's Silvio.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Eurocrats to sue for their pay rise

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 465 words


EU officials have begun a legal challenge to a cut in the annual pay rise of
MEPs and European civil servants that is designed to bring them in line with
those of other public sector staff.

Member states, including Britain, sought just before Christmas to block an
inflation-busting wage increase of 3.7 per cent for all EU officials.

But the European Commission described the reduced rate of 1.85 per cent as
"illegal" and asked the European courts to overturn it.

The decision to impose the cut was motivated by public anger in countries that
were hit by rising unemployment and pay freezes.

"We are talking about respect of agreed rules. This is not something where
political discretion applies," said a commission spokesman. "We are talking
about the rule of law."

European judges in Luxembourg, who earn £215,000 a year, will rule on the case
this summer even though they stand to benefit from the rise.

The salaries of more than 50,000 EU staff, including commissioners, officials
and MEPs, are set by a legally-binding index that is based on civil service pay
averages in the eight wealthiest European countries. Nigel Farage, the leader of
Ukip in the European Parliament, said: "Given that it is the way that wages for
EU judges are set too, it would not take Nostradamus to predict the result of
this particular case."

Francis Jacobs, a former advocate general at the European Court of Justice,
said: "A legal dispute of this kind has to be resolved by the court, since there
is no other means available. The court therefore has to decide the case in
accordance with the law and must be trusted to disregard any personal interest."
The Daily Telegraph understands that legal advice to the Council of Europe,
which represents national governments, said the commission would win any
challenge. This would result in an extra bill "of millions" for taxpayers on top
of the cost of the full pay rise.

Council lawyers said that the EU method for calculating salaries was legally
binding despite the argument that the rise was out of line with the wider
picture of economic crisis and deep public sector cuts across Europe.

Mats Persson, the director of the Open Europe think tank, said: "Only the EU
could come up with a system in which judges and bureaucrats have the ultimate
power to decide on whether to award themselves an inflation-busting pay rise in
the middle of the worst recession for generations.

It's hard to find a clearer case of an inbuilt conflict of interest."

The binding pay rise comes on top of reduced tax rates for EU officials,
generous pensions and notorious "gravy train" perks.

Baroness Ashton, Britain's commissioner and newly appointed EU foreign minister,
will pocket an extra £9,000 on top of her basic salary of £241,000 if the
Commission's legal action is successful.

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 7, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Dilute vote and we'll get Labour for a fourth term

SECTION: LETTERS; 57

LENGTH: 65  words


SO, Frank Day (Letters, January 6) suggests that a vote for UKIP will not assist
other parties. Has he not heard of 'divide and rule'?

If he thinks that by voting for a single-policy party such as UKIP he will
achieve democracy, he is deluded. By diluting the vote he, among others, could
give Labour another term in office. What chance will democracy have then?

Keith Smith, Sudbury, Suffolk

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Votes for UKIP are of no benefit to other parties

SECTION: NEWS; 34

LENGTH: 85  words


YOUR correspondent David Heath (Letters, January 5) misses the point about
voting for UKIP.

He maintains that a vote for UKIP will benefit Labour at the expense of the Tory
Party. But actually, a vote for UKIP will benefit UKIP and none of the other
parties.

Mr Heath should realise that an election is not the Grand National.

You are not supposed to back the horse you think will win, but the one you
believe will best represent your views in Parliament. This is called democracy.

Frank Day, Worcester Park, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           January 6, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY;
HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 533  words


ALLIES of embattled House of Commons Speaker John Bercow have revealed that
their man will jump before he is pushed in the event of the Conservatives
winning the next election and seeking to force him out.

Bercow's relationship with his former party has been strained ever since he had
to rely on Labour votes to get him into his present post and there is little
doubt that many Tory backbenchers would make ditching him a priority once they
were back in power.

"John's a proud guy and there's no way he'd ever allow his enemies to humiliate
him in such a fashion, " says a close friend.

"He'd stand down before others forced his fate."

Given that Bercow also faces a formidable challenge from former UK Independence
Party leader Nigel Farage in his Buckingham seat, that decision might be taken
out of his hands.

LABOUR supporters can be forgiven for reaching for the revolver after hearing
Harriet Harman, pictured, will front the party's daily media briefings during
the general election campaign.

The presumption had been that the role would go to the altogether more
persuasive Lord Mandelson. But while Downing Street is usually only too keen to
play down any talk of a rift between Mandy and the Prime Minister, Labour
officials privately spin a rather different line.

"There's concern in Downing Street that if Peter does the briefings he will end
up hogging the limelight and the stories will end up being about him rather than
Gordon and Labour policies, " I'm told. Peter hogging the limelight? Surely not!

AFTER more than 30 years in the Commons, veteran Labour backbencher Barry
Sheerman merits attention when he kicks off the new year by publicly calling for
Gordon Brown to stand aside.

The Huddersfield MP says: "Now is the time for those around him who also care
about our country's future to convince him that it is time for him to make way
for a new leader."

More cynical colleagues, however, point out that Sheerman's daughter, Madlin
Sadler, is special adviser to David Miliband - who has long harboured ambitions
to replace Brown. Pure coincidence, surely?

WE MAY be increasingly swapping the printed page for the e-book but some things
never change. According to website freakbits. com, the most popular illegally
downloaded electronic read of 2009 was The Kama Sutra.

The top 10 of such dodgy downloads also includes The Complete Idiot's Guide To
Amazing Sex at No 3; Before Pornography:

Erotic Writing In Early Modern England at No 6; and Nude Photography: The Art
And The Craft at No 9.

The same people probably still look up the naughty words in the dictionary.

WHY do I suspect that actor Greg Wise - otherwise known as Mr Emma Thompson,
right - is too good to be true? Maybe it has something to do with the fact that
he is so overwhelmingly smug and flattering about his mother-in-law Phyllida
Law, who lives opposite the couple in north London.

Writing in The Lady magazine Greg says of mothers-in-law: "She is the maker of
your spouse and as such should be worshipped and adored. Actually, one of the
finest lines to pass my lips was to my wife early on in our relationship:
'You're beautiful now but I'll stay no matter what because you'll end up looking
like your mother.'" Ye Gods!

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               83 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday

FIVE MORE MONTHS OF THIS NONSENSE! WAKE ME UP WHEN IT'S OVER

BYLINE: BY RICHARD LITTLEJOHN

LENGTH: 1440 words


ELECTION campaigns used to last three weeks. This one seems to have been running
for about two years and there are still another five months to go. Between now
and May, there appears to be no escape from politics. Labour has given up
governing and turned its full attention to trashing the Tories. Call Me Dave is
already beaming from billboards across Britain.

Don't they realise they are in grave danger of boring us all to death? My
reaction to yesterday morning's news bulletins was to crawl back under the
duvet.

Outside of his own press conference, where was the audience for Alistair
Darling's ludicrous denunciation of the Conservatives' alleged spending plans?

Frankly, I'm amazed he dares to show his face in public, given the titanic scale
of the national debt for which he is notionally responsible.

You might think he would be better employed on measures aimed at digging us out
of the 61.5 trillion black hole Labour has created. Instead, he fritters away
his final days in office on puerile party political point-scoring while the
economy goes to hell in a handcart.

The time and effort which must have gone into producing a 150-page 'analysis' of
the Tories' imaginary economic policies is mindboggling.

That's right, one hundred and fifty pages. Just to put it in perspective, that's
almost twice the size of yesterday's Daily Mail.

Where did Darling get the material from? Last time anyone looked, the Tories'
firm promises on tax and spend wouldn't cover a single side of A4.

Who in their right mind does he think is going to read it? And, while he's at
it, perhaps he would like to explain how many highly paid, supposedly impartial
Treasury staff were diverted to fabricating this blatant piece of partisan
political propaganda.

In the coming months, civil servants will find themselves pressganged into
supporting Labour's cause. Gordon Brown will not hesitate to use every lever at
his command to wrong-foot the Conservatives. Party will be put before country at
every possible opportunity.

LABOUR has spent the past 13 years politicising and corrupting what was once the
most honest and admired government administration in the world.

The payroll vote is enormous, which probably explains how the worst Prime
Minister in history still thinks he's in with a shout of re-election.

Since he became Chancellor in 1997, Brown has splurged billions of pounds of
public money creating a vast client state. It has been a cynical exercise in
vote-rigging, pure and simple.

That's why he keeps printing money and promising to spend, spend, spend. Brown
couldn't care less if the country is on Skid Row. He long since ceased even
pretending to govern in the national

interest and is content to insult our intelligence from now until election day.

Come the day of reckoning he will be gone and the Tories will have to clear up
his mess.

That's if they have the stomach. It is still unclear whether the Conservatives
can summon the courage to grasp the nettle.

Cameron's New Year press conference was devoted to prattling on about
ring-fencing spending on maternity wards, as if that is the most burning issue
facing Britain.

Brown's crude 'Labour investment versus Tory cuts' mantra is as infantile as it
is disingenuous. But it appears to have the Tories running scared of their own
shadows, which is why they are pledging to spend money they know full well the
country simply can't afford.

Dave's entire strategy has been focused on convincing voters that the Tories are
no longer the 'nasty' party, so he is reluctant to spell out the savage spending
cuts which will be necessary if the economy is ever to recover.

He seems to think that we will warm to him the more we see of him, hence the
cult of personality billboard blitz. The danger is we simply become sick of the
sight of him.

For what it's worth, my view is that most people have already decided how they
are going to vote and nothing that happens between now and election day will
make the slightest difference.

My money is still on a slim Conservative majority. The electorate has decided,
without much enthusiasm, that it's Dave's turn. We don't need another five
months of squabbling to convince us. Three weeks is more than long enough.

Wake me up when it's all over.

richard.littlejohn@dailymail.co.uk

THE NAME'S CHOUDHARY ... RAM JAM CHOUDHARY

I FELL about laughing when I saw Ram Jam Choudhary on Sky News justifying his
plans for a Muslim march through Wootton Bassett in the name of British 'freedom
and democracy'.

This is a man who heads an organisation dedicated to destroying freedom and
democracy, not just in Britain but around the world.

Remember those 'Free Speech Go To Hell' and 'Behead All Those Who Insult Islam'
banners carried by Ram Jam and his disciples on the anti-war march in Trafalgar
Square?

What astonishes me is that we are expected to pay him to troll round Britain
preaching holy war. On what grounds does he receive unemployment and welfare
benefits, which allow him to live in a 6350,000 house in North London?

He is 42 years old, apparently fit and healthy, and a trained lawyer. Even in
these difficult times, he ought to be able to find a job. There may not be a lot
of call for a fulltime jihadist, even in Haringey, but surely a little light
conveyancing shouldn't be beyond him. Maybe the Wicked Witch could sub-contract
him a bit of yuman rites work. If all else fails, he could always get a job as a
security guard at the Home Office. They don't seem fussy, judging by the number
of illegal immigrants they employ.

Some people ask why he's still at large, given that he spends most of his time
stirring up hatred. His legal training tends to keep him just the right side of
the incitement laws.

To be honest, I've always assumed that Ram Jam is an MI5 double agent, recruited
by the Funnies while he was still at university, where he was known as 'Andy'
and was partial to birds, booze and the odd spliff.

If you were looking for someone to discredit the cause of militant Islam, you
couldn't make him up.

HAWAII WITH THE FAIRIES!

FURTHER confirmation that the Prime Minister is away with the fairies came when
he announced that having saved the world from economic collapse, he was now
going to save us from Yemen by closing our embassy there.

He said he was setting up a joint international task force, which he would lead,
to combat Alky Ada activity in the region.

Although he claimed he had the full support of Barack Obama, the White House
said they knew nothing about it. The President has spent the past fortnight
playing golf in Hawaii and hasn't spoken to Brown.

Flash Gordon also said Britain would be going 'further than any other country in
the world' in bringing in extra security at airports.

Why? The Detroit bomber boarded in Nigeria and passed through Amsterdam.

How long before we all have to strip naked and swallow a barium meal before we
go through the scanners at Heathrow.

When I wrote last week that it was only a matter of time before passengers would
have to submit to a colonoscopy at the airport, I was joking.

At this rate, it'll be official Labour policy by Friday.

AND OVER IN THE BROWNSHIRT CORNER ...

A PRESS release arrives from Frank Maloney, the boxing promoter and UKIP
candidate for Barking, East London.

He is challenging BNP leader Nick Griffin, who is also standing in Barking, to a
boxing match.

Frank fought 69 times as an amateur and Griffin was a boxing blue at Cambridge.

Settling things in the ring sounds much more fun than an actual election. You
never know, it could catch on.

Imagine Gordon Brown trying to land his big, clunking fist on Call Me Dave,
while the Tory leader stings like a butterfly and floats like a bee.

Why stop there? I'd pay good money to see a mud-wrestling match between Harriet
Harman and Teresa May, or George Osborne and Peter Mandelson trying to scratch
each other's eyes out in a Greek taverna.

Seconds away. . .

BRITAIN'S obesity epidemic is worse than we'd thought. Undertakers have revealed
that they have had to resort to hiring cranes to bury the dead because some
coffins are too heavy to be handled by pall-bearers. Standard-sized graves and
hearses are no longer big enough to accommodate XXL coffins, and funeral
directors say they are increasingly having to use lorries to transport bodies.

Some require two plots in cemeteries and local authorities are imposing
surcharges.

In The Long Good Friday, after a body is taken away in an ice-cream van, Bob
Hoskins's gangster character Harold Shand remarks: 'Not very dignified, is it,
going out like a raspberry ripple.' Not very dignified, either, being winched
into your grave like a sack of spuds which has fallen off the back of a lorry.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               84 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Voting for UKIP will help Labour but hinder Tories

SECTION: LETTERS; 30

LENGTH: 114  words


YOUR correspondent Colin Andrew (Letters, January 4) misses the point about our
flawed electoral system, by planning to vote for minority party UKIP.

Ironically, such a vote would most likely benefit Labour, which dominates the
huge urban sprawls.

With UKIP more likely to find favour with Tory-inclined voters, it might win a
few seats, but not enough to act as an effective power-broker in a hung
Parliament.

Only the Tories can start rolling back the destruction of the last 13 years.
There might be a place for UKIP at a later date, but until then, please don't
destroy our only hope of a better Britain by voting, for a party with no hope of
forming a government.

David Heath, Birmingham

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               85 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday

Labour spent 97p for each vote in European elections

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 400 words

ABSTRACT

Latest Electoral Commission figures show the Tories spent marginally more than
Labour on election campaigning but got a much better return for their money

FULL TEXT

The Labour party spent almost £1 for every vote it secured in the 2009 European
elections, according to new figures released today.

The Conservatives spent only marginally more than Labour, but they secured a
much better return for their money, gaining one vote for every 59p spent by the
party.

The United Kingdom Independence party, which came second in the elections,
secured one vote for every 51p it spent on its campaign.

The contrast has emerged following  showing how much all the parties spent
campaigning during the 2009 European elections.

In 2004 the Conservatives outspent Labour by a considerable margin in the
European elections. The Tory campaign cost £3.1m, while the Labour campaign cost
£1.7m. The Tories got 26.7% of the vote, and Labour came second with 22.6% of
the vote.

Last year the spending gap between the two main parties was much narrower. The
Tory campaign cost £2.5m, while the Labour campaign cost £2.3m.

But Labour came third, behind the Tories (with 27.7% of the vote) and Ukip (with
16.5%). Labour received 15.7% of the Great Britain vote, and it spent 97p for
every vote it received.

The Liberal Democrats, who came fourth, spent £1.2m on their campaign and
received one vote for every 57p they spent. The Ukip campaign cost £1.3m.

The Electoral Commission figures show that Labour spent more than twice as much
as the Tories did on market research and canvassing. Labour spent £264,271,
while the Tories spent £111,073.

Labour also outspent the Tories on party political broadcasts. Labour PPBs cost
£76,325, while the Tory ones cost £38,254.

But the Tories far outspent Labour on advertising. Tory advertising cost
£301,222, while Labour advertising cost £71,779.

Overall, spending by all parties during the campaign came to just over £9m.

Under electoral law, all parties have to submit their spending returns to the
Electoral Commission. The commission said Ukip and the British National party
had both been fined £500 for submitting their returns late.

Peter Wardle, chief executive of the Electoral Commission, said: "By making
these returns public, we aim to put information in the hands of voters and help
increase transparency in politics."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               86 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            January 5, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Griffin in fight dare

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 66 words


BOXING promoter Frank Maloney has challenged BNP leader Nick Griffin to a
charity punch-up.

The UKIP candidate, 55, will take on Griffin in East London's Barking
constituency in this year's General Election.

But Maloney wants to face him in the ring first - with the loser pulling out of
the ballot. Griffin, 50, boxed at Cambridge University - but 5ft 4ins Maloney,
55, said: "It's a serious offer."

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               87 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 4, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Daily Express's McKinstry should stand for election

SECTION: LETTERS; 35

LENGTH: 159  words


OH, for a political party and prime minister with common sense and moral
awareness of the kind shown throughout the year by Daily Express columnist Leo
McKinstry.

If David Cameron was so different from the political elite that's been
destroying this country for 13 years, he'd be taking this government to task in
a way highlighted so brilliantly by Leo.

Let 2010 be the year we rise up against political correctness and ignore it
wherever it's encountered.

And let it be the year the sane majority regains control of Britain and its
sovereignty.

Come election time, my vote will go to an independent party such as UKIP, with
its pledge to give this nation back to the people.

If everyone uses their vote wisely, instead of giving it to the Tories or
Liberal Democrats who only promise more of what we've had to endure under
Labour, a bright future is guaranteed.

Any chance of standing as a candidate, Leo? You'd get my vote.

Colin Andrew, Ashton-under-Lyne, Lancs

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               88 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 3, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Quotes of the week

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 150 words


She is a great lady, Carla ...

even if she doesn't look it The views of a homeless Parisian named Denis, whom
the French first lady has apparently befriended I'm a sort of loony ... A
carthorse who puts his hooves in it sometimes Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the new
head of UKIP, sets out his balanced, measured attitude to policy A lady at the
library asked if my parents were "1960s' people" Regina Gardner, a shopworker,
reveals reaction to her changing her name to Deathstroke Regina Chester Jefff
Dave Dum Dee Dum Tumblepot Castro's a bit older and I'm not quite as grey as
him. Perhaps I had a colour advantage Michael Eavis, father of the Glastonbury
music festival, on being named Beard of the Noughties by the Beard Liberation
Front Hideosity! They gave me a moustache!

Mariah Carey reveals the lengths she went to in make-up for her role in the film
Precious, in which she plays a dowdy social worker

LOAD-DATE: January 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               89 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       January 3, 2010 Sunday 4:25 PM GMT

I once voted Ukip - but David Cameron's getting my vote this year

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 276 words


What's a good smear? It's something that's true. So when David Cameron described
Ukip members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists, mostly", he hit a raw
nerve.

I probably shouldn't admit this, but - like a lot of Tories - I lent my vote to
Ukip once. During the 2004 European elections, it seemed like the right thing to
do - the Tories in Brussels were too wet for my liking, and I wanted to protest
against the European Constitution.

But I haven't voted Ukip subsequently, and I won't in future. The reason? I met
some of its members - and Cameron was right. The party is stuffed full of
nutters - the green ink brigade, who bang on about the supposed benefits of
national service (legalised slavery), rant about the need to hang and flog 'em,
and obsess about immigrants and gay people. Most disagree with the libertarian
view of life that Farage introduced into the party. They embody the nastiness
that David Cameron worked so effectively to ditch from the Tory party.

Don't get me wrong: I like some of Ukip's policies - especially their advocacy
of a flat rate of income tax. And I've always liked Lord Pearson and the
brilliant Nigel Farage, who has always been keen to buy me pints.

But the members are a real turn off.

Besides, those who think Ukip offers a practical way to curb the powers of the
European superstate are deluded. Under first-past-the-post, all it does is to
take votes away from the most Eurosceptic of the main parties - making a vote
for Ukip a wasted and counterproductive one.

That's not to say that I'm against the existence of Ukip: it has a vital
political role. It weeds out the wrong sort of people from the Tory party.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               90 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            January 2, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Just keep your distance, Dave

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 73  words


DAVID CAMERON has been "love-bombing" Lib Dems, claiming their party and the
Tories are increasingly similar. He should be careful. That message might
attract wavering Liberals into the Tory fold but equally it might send wavering
Tories in the direction of UKIP. Most Right-wing voters wish to hear that the
Tories have a diametrically opposite approach to the pro-Brussels Lib Dems. If
they don't then what's the point of supporting them?

LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               91 of 92 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             January 1, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

You pay for MEP children's skiing

BYLINE: By Tony Brooks

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 424  words


THE children of Euro MPs and officials are being sent on a skiing trip with the
British taxpayer picking up part of the bill.

The eight-day trip next month, with accommodation at a three-star Alpine hotel,
was condemned as "scandalous" last night.

The 80 youngsters aged eight to 17 will spend four hours a day on the ski slopes
and will be able to have ski lessons and take part in open-air games and a
torchlight procession.

In what is seen as yet another perk of the Euro gravy train, the GBP 820 cost
for each child will be heavily subsidised by the Brussels parliament - even
though some of their parents earn more than GBP 100,000 a year.

Philip Davies, Tory MP for Shipley, West Yorkshire, said: "This is absolutely
scandalous and yet another example of the racket enjoyed by European politicians
and bureaucrats.

"If they wish their child to enjoy a holiday they should pay for it themselves
like every other parent.

"They live in a different world. I am sure every family in this country would
just love to get a European handout so their children could take a holiday at
this time of year, too."

MEPs and European civil servants have already provoked anger by demanding a
massive 3.7 per cent recession-busting pay rise in the next few weeks.

Now hard-hit taxpayers will be helping to fund their children's stay in the
village of Spiazzi in northern Italy on February 13 and 14.

Critics claim the weekend has been arranged by the parliament's staff committee
to allow the children's parents a romantic St Valentine's Day break on their
own.

The subsidy will come out of the European Parliament's budget, with households
getting different levels of funding.

Those earning up to GBP 69,620 a year will have 52 per cent of the cost paid,
while those on up to GBP 86,000 receive 45 per cent. Even those on an income of
GBP 108,000-plus will enjoy a discount.

There will also be additional 10 per cent discounts for "a second child or
subsequent children".

Mats Persson, spokesman for the think-tank Open Europe, said: "How can MEPs
claim subsidised holidays for their children when many of their constituents'
families are struggling through the recession?"

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party in the European Parliament,
said: "Spending a fortune on a skiing jolly like this after the worst economic
year in memory will really anger the public.

"Surely now is a time of reflection and humility, not a chance to rub the
taxpayer's nose in yet another tremendous waste of money."

A European Parliament spokesman refused to comment last night.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Euro taxpayer-subsidised weekend at an Alpine ski resort has been
condemned by Tory MP Philip Davies, above

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               92 of 92 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             January 1, 2010 Friday

Bercow facing Tory backbench challenge: MPs lobbying for removal of
Labour-backed Speaker Hopes of general election win foster internal spat

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 456 words


Tory MPs are pushing for the removal of the Speaker of the Commons, John Bercow,
should their party win the next general election, with the right of the
Conservative party beginning to mobilise for the backbencher Edward Leigh to
take over the role.

Bercow's fate is preoccupying the Tory backbenches and may come to a head in the
next month when a review of the rules governing the election of the Speaker is
published.

Conservative MPs have remained uncomfortable with Bercow since he was elected
amid much fanfare last May. Although a Tory, Bercow won the position largely
with Labour support and he has irritated MPs with his muscular style of chairing
Commons debates.

Tory MPs also feel that a decision by Bercow's wife, Sally, to criticise the
Conservative leader, David Cameron, and run as a Labour candidate in this May's
local elections has politicised his position and made it untenable.

The hostility is such that the tradition of a Speaker being elected unopposed at
a general election will be ignored this year and Ukip's former leader, Nigel
Farage, will run against Bercow. In recent weeks backbenchers have warned that
they will not stomach Bercow being left in place if the Tories win the election.

Leigh is chair of the public administration committee and president of the
rightwing Cornerstone group, and senior backbenchers believe supporting him
would placate the right of the party in the period immediately after coming to
office, when Cameron's initial steps might not allow him to make many inroads
into tax or Europe policy.

Leigh's allies believe the Cornerstone group represents between 30 and 40 MPs,
and if the Tories won with a majority of that order they would demand an
election for the role of Speaker in return for their voting bloc.

However, some believe a showdown over Bercow would look like an introspective
spat early in a new parliament that could undermine their pledge to "clean up"
politics.

It was reported in the Times that Cameron had made it clear to members in
Bercow's Buckingham constituency that any one helping Farage unseat Bercow would
be ejected from the party.

The issue is likely to break into the open when the Commons procedure committee
reports and calls for a fully contested election for the position of Speaker and
deputy speakers.

One of the committee members, Christopher Chope, the Tory MP for Christ-church,
is known to be mobilising against Bercow.

Other possible challengers could include Frank Field, the Labour MP for
Birkenhead, who is not universally popular with his own side and who would serve
as a "reverse Bercow" as the bulk of Tory MPs would support him.

John Bercow, Speaker of the Commons, who may find the role contested if his own
party wins the general election

LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
