
                               1 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Ukip escapes bankruptcy;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 94 words


The UK Independence Party was saved from potential bankruptcy yesterday after
the Supreme Court ruled that it did not have to forfeit £350,000 in donations.

Judges reversed a ruling from last year which, with legal costs, would have
landed the party with a £750,000 bill.

Nigel Farage, leader at the time, said the party could be forced "out of
business".

The donations were made by a retired bookmaker who was found not to be on the
electoral roll, a condition of donating, at the time.

Ukip will have to forfeit £14,481 given after it knew Alan Bown was not
registered.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 30, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ruling saves UKIP from £750,000 bill

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 116 words


The UK Independence Party has been saved from potential bankruptcy by a Supreme
Court ruling over £350,000 in donations it had been told to forfeit.

Judges reversed a ruling by the Court of Appeal in October over the sum that,
with costs, would have landed the party with a £750,000 bill. The Electoral
Commission had applied for forfeiture of donations by Alan Bown because he was
not on the electoral roll. He had been removed from the register, in error,
without his knowledge in 2004 and was reinstated shortly after finding out a
year later.

A ruling by Westminster magistrates that £14,481 be forfeited was restored by
the Supreme Court after the appeal court said the full sum should be paid.

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

COALITION AT WAR ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES IN BANGALORE, JAMES CHAPMAN AND DANIEL MARTIN

LENGTH: 775 words


THE Coalition was at war last night over a key Conservative election pledge to
impose a strict annual limit on immigration.

Liberal Democrat Vince Cable led a growing rebellion against enforcing a
draconian cap on numbers coming into the country, demanding 'as liberal a policy
as possible'.

The Business Secretary has privately described the idea of a tight limit as
'crazy' at a time when Britain is trying to boost trade.

His call revealed deep divisions within the Government, with even some senior
Tories sympathetic to watering down the policy. They are understood to include
universities minister David Willetts.

A senior Government source last night said Mr Cable would not back down from his
position, which has led to a tense Cabinet stand-off with Home Secretary Theresa
May.

The row came as it emerged that immigration and rising birth rates mean that
Britain accounted for nearly a third of the growth in population across the
whole of Europe last year, with 412,000 added to the UK total.

Mr Cable, visiting India as part of a mission led

David Cameron, declared: 'It's no great secret that in my department and me
personally, we want to see an open economy, and as liberal an immigration policy
as it's possible to have.

'We are arguing, within Government, about how we create the most flexible regime
we can possibly have, but in a way that reassures the British public.'

Mr Cable insisted the Government was 'trying to reconcile two different
objectives, one of which is to reassure the British public that immigration is
under control, and the other is to have an open economy where we can bring in
talents from around the world'.

His intervention prompted a backlash from Right-wing Tory MPs, who said the
commitment to reduce net immigration to a level of tens of thousands had been
central to their party's election success.

The Government has imposed a temporary limit on immigration while it considers
the level at which an annual cap from non-EU countries should be set.

Home Secretary Theresa May said last month that the measures would bring net
migration down to the levels of the 1990s, meaning around 40,000 to 50,000
arrivals each year, rather than the peaks of 200,000 under Labour.

But Liberal Democrats Z and some Tories Z are arguing that so strict a quota
could hit the economic recovery.

Mr Willetts is understood to have told colleagues being briefed this week

immigration minister Damian Green that the commitment to get immigration down to
tens of thousands a year should be dropped.

Tory MP Jo Johnson, formerly a journalist based in Delhi, who is accompanying
the Prime Minister on his India visit, admitted a quota jarred with the message
that Britain is open for global business. 'There is a contradictory message to
some extent,' Mr Johnson said.

But Philip Hollobone, Tory MP for Kettering, said: 'The last thing the majority
of English people want is a liberal immigration policy.

'As far as most people are concerned, the country is already full up. They would
be horrified

Vince Cable's comments.

'I was elected

my constituents on the basis that I would stand up for more controls on
immigration, not less.'

Douglas Carswell, Tory MP for Clacton, said: 'If you are going to have the sort
of open door policy Vince Cable is advocating, it will have some pretty profound
implications for our country. It would ultimately do away with our welfare state
and NHS.'

Gerard Batten, of the UK Independence Party, said: 'This coalition has accepted
that it cannot control EU migration, and now it tells us it doesn't want to
control non-EU migration. What part of this policy has anyone voted for?'

A Downing Street source last night insisted that Mr Cable was not arguing for
the cap to be abandoned.

He said: 'The debate is about implementation. It is no surprise that the
Business Secretary is in favour of making the terms as favourable as possible to
business.'

But it emerged that both India and Turkey, which Mr Cameron visited yesterday,
will be consulted on Britain's new immigration rules, prompting speculation that
the quota could be looser than expected.

Anand Sharma, India's commerce minister, warned that a cap could damage
relations between the two countries.

The row overshadowed the start of Mr Cameron's first official trip to India,
during which he will tout for help from the emerging power for help in dragging
Britain out of recession.

The Prime Minister wants to create a 'new special relationship' with an economy
that is booming

almost ten per cent a year.

A senior Downing Street source insisted last night there would be 'no shift
whatsoever' from the Tory position in the election campaign.

j.chapman@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday

PM LABELS GAZA A 'PRISON CAMP'

LENGTH: 1318 words


FURY AS CAMERON CALLS FOR LIFTING OF BLOCKADE AND ATTACKS ISRAEL

FROM JASON GROVES IN ANKARA AND MATTHEW KALMAN IN JERUSALEM

DAVID CAMERON was condemned last night

Israel for describing Gaza as a 'prison camp' on his visit to Turkey.

Addressing businessmen in the capital Ankara, the Prime Minister said: 'The
situation in Gaza has to change. Humanitarian goods and people must flow in both
directions. Gaza cannot and must not be allowed to remain a prison camp.'

Later, at press conference with the Turkish prime minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan,
Mr Cameron condemned the Israeli attack on a Gaza aid flotilla in May which left
nine Turkish pro-Palestinian activists dead. Last night Israel hit back with Ron
Prossor, the country's ambassador to London, saying: 'The people of Gaza are the
prisoners of the terrorist organisation Hamas [the radical Palestinian group
which controls it]. The situation in Gaza is the direct result of Hamas' rule
and priorities.'

Danny Danon, deputy speaker of Israel's Knesset parliament and a leading member
of the ruling Likud party, said Mr Cameron's statement was 'worrying'. He added:
'It is the wrong message to the wrong audience at the wrong time. The Prime
Minister should never lose sight of reality. Namely, Gaza is not a prison.'

Mr Cameron had also said in his speech to the businessmen: 'Let me be clear. The
Israeli attack on the Gaza flotilla was completely unacceptable and I have told
prime minister Netanyahu we will expect the Israeli inquiry to be swift,
transparent and rigorous.'

He said Turkey could 'make the case for peace' as Israel and the Palestinians
moved towards direct peace talks in the near future.

Last month, Mr Cameron had compared Gaza to 'an open prison.'

Asked about his remarks on Gaza later at the press conference with Mr Erdogan,
Mr Cameron said: 'The fact is we have long supported lifting the blockade of
Gaza, we have long supported proper humanitarian access.

'Even though some progress has been made we are still in the situation where it
is very difficult to get in, it is very difficult to get out. So I think the
description is warranted.'

And speaking afterwards he stood

his description, saying that 'even though some progress has been made we're
still in a situation where it's very difficult to get in, it's very difficult to
get out'.

However, he attempted to play down his criticism

acknowledging Israel's security fears over rocket attacks fired

militants in Gaza.

'We [Britain and Turkey] both share the view that direct talks [between Israel
and the Palestinians] is the right answer,' he said.

In Jerusalem, one Israeli government official said of Mr Cameron's remarks: 'We
have to be very careful how we respond. We do not want to trigger a major
crisis. We will wait and see if he says it again.'

Channel 2, Israel's most popular television channel, raised the temperature

mistranslating Mr Cameron's comments as referring to Gaza as a 'concentration
camp'.

In London, the Henry Jackson Society, a think tank which comments on
international affairs, said the Prime Minister had used 'deeply hostile
rhetoric' and 'blundered'.

A spokesman said: 'What precisely does a British Prime Minister think he is
doing suggesting that Israel should free up its borders with a zone packed full
of would-be suicide bombers?'

The Conservative Home website, a grassroots Tory forum, said Mr Cameron's
comments would divide the party but please the Liberal Democrats. It added: 'The
use of such an emotive term and the lack of any balancing condemnation of the
Hamas regime that terrorises Gaza will also disappoint Conservative supporters
of Israel.'

The Gaza Strip is home to 1.5million people, a third of them refugees living in
basic housing in camps run

the UN.

It is 25 miles long and between four and seven miles wide. The enclave is
bordered on the east and north

Israel, on the south

Egypt and to the west

the Mediterranean. Gaza was occupied

Israel between 1967 and 2005, when Israel withdrew some 6,000 settlers and a
garrison that together controlled about 40 per cent of the area.

Gaza was administered jointly with the West Bank

the Palestinian Authority from 1994 until 2006, when Hamas won a parliamentary
election, leading to a year of tense coalition government with Fatah. In 2007,
Hamas seized control of the area in a bloody coup in which more than 400 Fatah
supporters were killed and hundreds more maimed.

Since Israel's withdrawal, Hamas and its allies have fired some 5,000 rockets
across the border at nearby Israeli towns.

Israel attacked the Gaza Strip in December 2008 in a three-week campaign that
killed more than 1,000 Palestinians and destroyed thousands of Palestinian
homes.

'Humanitarian goods and people must flow in both directions. Gaza cannot and
must not be allowed to remain a prison camp'

...AND HE SAYS WE MUST SHOW INDIA HUMILITY

By Jason Groves Political Correspondent

BRITAIN should show 'humility' to India, David Cameron said last night as he
begged the emerging power to help drag the UK out of recession.

Speaking as he arrived in Bangalore heading the largest UK delegation since the
sun set on the Raj in August 1947, the Prime Minister suggested Britain should
bend its knee to its former colony.

In an article for The Hindu newspaper, Mr Cameron said: 'I have come to your
country in a spirit of humility. I know that Britain cannot rely on sentiment
and shared history for a place in India's future. Your country has the whole
world beating a path to its door.'

Mr Cameron's words may have been diplomatic, but they drew criticism at home as
an apparent indication that he takes a reduced view of Britain's once-great
place on the world stage.

Former Conservative Party chairman Lord Tebbit accused the Prime Minister of
speaking as though Britain had something to 'apologise' to India for.

'I begin to wonder if Mr Cameron has read any history,' he said. 'I spent quite
a bit of time in India before Mr Cameron was born and I doubt very much if an
apologetic tone is the right one.

'We should be proud of our time in India, and India should be proud of what it
is today.'

Last week, the Prime Minister angered war veterans

suggesting that Britain had been the 'junior partner' in the allied fight
against Germany in 1940. His historical slip neglected the fact that the U.S.
had yet to enter the war then.

Andrew Rosindell, the Right-wing Tory MP for Romford, said Mr Cameron was right
to try and forge a special relationship with India. But he added: 'We need an
equal partnership with India. I don't believe we have anything to be apologetic
about. British influence in India has been a positive thing for the country.'

Nigel Farage, of the UK Independence Party, said: 'Isn't it time we stopped
apologising for stuff our great-grandfathers may or may not have done? We should
treat India like every nation, as a grown-up competitor, colleague and friend.'

A Downing Street source insisted Mr Cameron's words were not designed to do
Britain down. 'It's not about inferiority or superiority, it's just recognising
the fact that India is a fast-growing economy,' the source said.

'We can't afford to rest on our laurels and rely on the old colonial ties.'
Others pointed out that Indian culture prides itself on extreme politeness to
guests or hosts.

But Mr Cameron's remarks appear to indicate that he is ready to adopt a
'realist' foreign policy and is more prepared than his predecessors to
acknowledge Britain's diminished status on the world stage, even if it leads to
criticism at home.

In a speech to business leaders in Bangalore today, Mr Cameron will heap further
praise on India, saying: 'The Indian tiger has been uncaged and its power can be
felt around the world. And we feel that power too.'

Mr Cameron will also hail India and Britain's shared cultures, saying: 'We share
so much culturally, whether it's watching [Bollywood actor] Shah Rukh Khan,
eating the same food or watching cricket.'

Comment Z Page 14

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Fury as Cameron calls Gaza a 'prison camp'

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 454 words


DAVID CAMERON drew condemnation from Israel last night after describing Gaza as
a "prison camp".

The Prime Minister's comments came during a visit to Turkey, where relations
with Israel have been strained since Israeli troops stormed a flotilla of ships
carrying supplies to Gaza in May, killing eight Turks and one Turkish-American.

Speaking in Ankara, Mr Cameron denounced the attack on the flotilla as
"completely unacceptable" and restated his call for Israeli PM Benjamin
Netanyahu to deliver a "swift, transparent and rigorous" inquiry.

Israel's blockade of the Gaza Strip, which has severely limited the movement of
people and goods since 2007, has sparked outrage in Turkey, which provided the
organisers and the bulk of the participants for the flotilla. Mr Cameron said:
"The situation in Gaza has to change. Humanitarian goods and people must flow in
both directions."

But Israel's ambassador in London, Ron Prosor, hit back last night saying: "The
situation in Gaza is the direct result of Hamas' rule."

The Prime Minister also risked sparking a fresh immigration row by vowing to
campaign vigorously for Turkey to join the European Union. He signalled his
backing for the nation of 80 million people to become the first predominantly
Muslim EU member.

Mr Cameron said: "The case for Turkish membership is indisputable.

"When I think about what Turkey has done to defend Europe as a Nato ally and
what Turkey is doing in Afghanistan alongside our European allies, it makes me
angry that your progress towards EU membership can be frustrated in the way it
has been."

But UK Independence Party Euro-MP Nigel Farage said: "Turkish accession will be
rejected by France, Germany, Austria and others. Mr Cameron is guilty of
building up hopes where there are none."

COMMENT: PAGE 12

Cable clash on immigration

VINCE Cable put fresh strains on the coalition Government's borders crackdown
last night by calling for the most "liberal immigration policy possible".

The Lib Dem Business Secretary - visiting India yesterday ahead of David Cameron
- claimed that further immigration into Britain would be "good for growth and
good for the economy". But his outspoken comments, which threatened to
overshadow the Prime Minister's arrival in Delhi last night, appeared to
conflict with the Home Office's commitment to reducing the influx of new
arrivals by imposing an annual limit.

The incident is certain to irritate many Tory MPs who fear Lib Dem ministers are
intent on watering down the crackdown.

Q Should Turkey be allowed to join the EU?

YES: 0901 030 8342 Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8343 No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cable upstaged PM
David Cameron backs Turkey's EU entry in Ankara yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 28, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cameron: I'll fight to help Turkey join EU

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 460 words


DAVID Cameron risked sparking a fresh immigration row yesterday by vowing to
campaign vigorously for Turkey to join the European Union.

The Prime Minister, speaking in the capital Ankara, signalled his backing for
the nation of 80 million people to become the first predominantly Muslim EU
member. He said: "The case for Turkish membership is indisputable."

But his remarks raised concerns from critics who fear a new wave of immigration.

Mr Cameron said: "I'm here to make the case for Turkey's membership of the EU
and to fight for it."

He said Britain had experienced being blocked from EU membership, referring to
1960s French President Charles de Gaulle's infamous "Non!".

Mr Cameron said: "We know what it's like to be shut out of the club. But we also
know that these things can change.

When I think about what Turkey has done to defend Europe as a Nato ally and what
Turkey is doing today in Afghanistan alongside our European allies, it makes me
angry that your progress towards EU membership can be frustrated in the way it
has been."

He said controls on immigration could be imposed for an initial period after
Turkey joined the EU. They would stay while the Turkish economy adjusted to
European output and employment, reducing the temptation for Turks to move to
other EU member states.

But Tory backbencher Philip Hollobone signalled opposition within Conservative
ranks. He said: "Turkish membership of the EU would be a disaster for this
country because we would be faced with an enormous wave of immigration which we
simply could not cope with."

UK Independence Party Euro-MP Nigel Farage described Mr Cameron's call as
"irresponsible". He added: "As he knows Turkish accession will be rejected by
France, Germany, Austria and others, he is guilty of building up hopes where
there are none."

COMMENT: PAGE 12

Cable clash on immigration

VINCE Cable put fresh strains on the coalition Government's borders crackdown
last night by calling for the most "liberal immigration policy possible".

The Lib Dem Business Secretary - visiting India yesterday ahead of David Cameron
- claimed that further immigration into Britain would be "good for growth and
good for the economy". But his outspoken comments, which threatened to
overshadow the Prime Minister's arrival in Delhi last night, appeared to
conflict with the Home Office's commitment to reducing the influx of new
arrivals by imposing an annual limit.

The incident is certain to irritate many Tory MPs who fear Lib Dem ministers are
intent on watering down the crackdown.

Q Should Turkey be allowed to join the EU?

YES: 0901 030 8342

Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8343

No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cable upstaged PM
David Cameron backs Turkey's EU entry in Ankara yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

GYPSY IN £3M BENEFIT FIDDLE;
She masterminded scam involving 172 Romanians Gypsy crusader behind Romanian
benefit scam

BYLINE: Mark Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,6

LENGTH: 499 words


BRITAIN'S "soft touch" welfare system was exposed yesterday after a campaigner
for gypsy rights admitted her part in a £3million benefits scam.

Lavinia Olmazu helped to mastermind a plot which saw 172 Romanians rip off
taxpayers using illegally obtained National Insurance numbers.

The gang had hoped to eventually siphon at least £12million from the UK benefits
system, a court heard.

Critics last night said the case highlighted how Britain's lax welfare system
was being ruthlessly exploited by outsiders.

Olmazu, 30, an educational therapist with two degrees, was a renowned campaigner
for Roma gypsies. She once even addressed the United Nations in New York on
their rights. She was employed  by both Haringey and Waltham Forest councils in
north London as an "inclusivi ty out reach worker".

But instead of advising Roma families how to integrate into Britain she helped
them to fraudulently obtain millions in benefits.

At Southwark Crown Court yesterday she admitted conspiracy to defraud and was
warned she faces jail. She was remanded in custody till September 17 for
sentencing.

Her boyfriend Alin Enachi, 29, had admitted the same charge at an earlier
hearing and was jailed for two years and eight months.

The court was told Enachi acted as an interpreter for 356 National Insurance
applicants between March 2008 and July 2009, with 172 of these going on to
illegally claim £2.9million in tax credits and child benefits .

The Romanian couple, who moved to Britain in 2007, obtained the NI numbers.
under the guise of a charity called Roma Concern using bogus documents such as
bank statements and letters of recommendation claiming that the applicants had
jobs.

The case has outraged critics of Britain's slack benefits system.

Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "At a time when government
finances are under real strain taxpayers will be furious to learn that a trusted
public servant abused her position of power to such an extent.

"This highlights the need to reform the welfare system."

UK Independence Party MEP Gerard Batten said: "We live in country that is now
beyond satire. EU rules would allow us to deport this woman under provisions of
'public policy and security'.

"But with this government I wouldn't hold your breath."

The scam was exposed after the Department for Work and Pensions noticed an
"unusually high" volume of NI claims by Romas at the Jobcentre Plus office in
Tooting, south London.

A probe revealed that Enachi had acted as an interpreter on the majority of the
applications. Computer files at his home in Woodford Green, Essex, showed fake
templates for bank documents and recommendation letters.

Six other jobless Roma gypsies have also been jailed for their part in the plot.
They are: Paula Mihai, 27, Nicoleta Vasile, 26, plus four brothers Stelian
Dumitru, 25, Daniel Dumitru, 20, Cristian Dumitru, 28, and Ioan Dumitru, 22. All
six lived in council properties in Tottenham, north London, despite a court
saying they had "no right" to be in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: July 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Highly educated Olmazu
Lavinia Olmazu taking part in protest for gypsy rights
Cristian Dumitru, left, and Olmazu's boyfriend Alin Enachi, right, were both
jailed for their part in the plot

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday

David Cameron's Turkophilia faces an uphill struggle

BYLINE: Denis MacShaneguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 631 words

ABSTRACT

Denis MacShane: Key partners in the European Union are out of step with
Cameron's positive stance towards the accession of Turkey

FULL TEXT

David Cameron's adoption of Tony Blair's  today should be welcomed.

In 2004, in his last great surge of geopolitical activity, Blair single-handedly
moved the European council to agree a start date for EU accession negotiations
for Turkey.

I was there as he patrolled the night-time corridors in the sterile Brussels
office block where EU councils are held. He knocked recalcitrant heads together,
helped by an able Turkophone diplomatist, Peter Westmacott, until his fellow EU
leaders finally said yes to entry talks.

Then, Blair had powerful allies. Germany and Spain were under left leadership
and backed Turkey's bid. France's Jacques Chirac, true to the pro-Turkey
tradition of General de Gaulle, also backed Blair.

Today Cameron faces a different EU political landscape.  to Turkey joining the
EU. Cameron's decision to walk out of the main centre-right political group
where Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy, plus most other ruling EU parties,
confer means that Britain's voice is absent in the key EU political debate on
Turkey. Cameron's main EU partner is the recently defeated Polish catholic
nationalist, . He fought to get the Lisbon treaty amended to include a reference
to Europe's Christian origins. Such politics do not play well in Muslim Turkey.

Moreover, Cameron has pledged a referendum on any major new EU treaty and a
final decision to let Turkey in will require a significant new EU treaty. If
that is submitted to a referendum, as Cameron and William Hague have pledged,
the chances of it being passed are slim.

The increasingly anti-Muslim Ukip is moving towards an Islamophobic extremism in
the fashion of Geert Wilders. Nigel Farage rants about 80 million Muslim Turks
being allowed free travel and work rights in the UK, and ugly as this language
is the Cameron referendum pledge effectively nixes Turkey's EU membership -
whatever the warm words in Ankara.

Turkish politicians and diplomatists are not fools. They will welcome, rightly,
Cameron following in Blair's footsteps in making the UK the champion of Turkey's
EU accession. But they will know the prime minister can deliver little. Above
all Turkish business leaders, academics and the growing middle class want to
visit Britain without humiliating waits to get a visa. A relaxation of visa
requirements would be a concrete step by Cameron, but whether he will take on
the Daily Mail and Richard Desmond and the anti-foreigner prejudices of his own
MPs is open to question.

Hard questions need to be asked of Turkey. Yesterday Turkey's trade minister
said Turkey would flout, indeed bust, EU sanctions against Iran. Is this helpful
on Ankara's part when it want to get closer to the EU?

Turkey manages to turn the Cyprus pebble in its shoe into a cactus in its pants
by refusing to meet legitimate Cypriot concerns halfway. EU big nation
Turkophobes hide behind Greek and Cypriot manoeuvring on the Cypriot issue. Will
Cameron take on the influential Greek Cypriot diaspora which wields real
political influence in key London constituencies?

Turkey demand support and solidarity as it deals with Kurdish separatism and
resistance at times terroristic. But Turkey expects Israel to take a different
stance in dealing with the antisemitic Hamas and its pledge to destroy the
Jewish state.

So talking turkey to Turkey is trickier than simply shouting at Merkel and
Sarkozy or telling the Turks they have nothing to do themselves. Cameron is
right to make his Ankara speech but his own politics on Europe make him less
useful to Turkish EU aspirations than first appears.

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MIGRANT RULE FURY

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 218 words


A HIGH Court judge sparked outrage yesterday by ripping up powers to fasttrack
illegal immigrants out of Britain.

Mr Justice Silber ruled the scheme was illegal because it gave the immigrants no
time to seek legal advice.

Most foreigners who are refused permission to stay in the UK get 72 hours'
notice of removal.

But special powers introduced three years ago allowed some to be booted out with
little or no notice.

These included unaccompanied kids who might flee, cases where there is a suicide
risk or cases where speedy deportation will help "maintain order and discipline"
at a detention centre.

Sitting in London, the judge declared: "It is clear that the new policy fails to
ensure that those who receive reduced periods of notice will be able to obtain
legal advice in the time available before they are removed."

A Home Office spokesman said afterwards: "We are disappointed with the court's
judgment and we will be appealing." He added that the fasttrack powers -
challenged by campaign group Medical Justice - had been used 145 times in three
years.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage fumed: "There are hundreds of thousands
of illegal immigrants here.

"What this judgment does is essentially give anybody who has already had their
claim to stay refused the time to disappear."

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ruling... judge Silber

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             July 27, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MIGRANT RULE FURY

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 235 words


A HIGH Court judge sparked outrage yesterday by ripping up powers to fasttrack
illegal immigrants out of Britain. Mr Justice Silber ruled the scheme was
illegal because it gave the immigrants no time to seek legal advice about their
situation.

Most foreigners who are refused permission to stay in the UK get 72 hours'
notice of removal.

But special powers introduced three years ago allowed some to be booted out with
little or no notice.

These included unaccompanied children who might flee, cases where there is a
suicide risk or cases where speedy deportation will help "maintain order and
discipline" at a detention centre.

Sitting in London, the judge declared: "It is clear that the new policy fails to
ensure that those who receive reduced periods of notice will be able to obtain
legal advice in the time available before they are removed."

A Home Office spokesman said afterwards: "We are disappointed with the court's
judgment and we will be appealing.

The Government remains committed to removing individuals with no right to be in
the UK as quickly as possible."

He added that the fast-track powers - which were challenged by campaign group
Medical Justice - had been used 145 times in three years.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage said: "There are hundreds of thousands of
illegal immigrants here.

"What this does is give anybody who has already had their claim to stay refused
the time to disappear."

LOAD-DATE: July 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ruling ... judge Silber

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Free speech storm as burkha-ban MP is told he's breaking the law

BYLINE: Sarah Westcott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 594 words


A TORY MP seeking to ban the burkha has been warned he faces legal action if he
refuses to meet any constituent who is wearing one of the controversial
full-face veils.

Lawyers for human rights group Liberty have sent the MP, Philip Hollobone, a
letter warning him he is breaching anti-discrimination laws by insisting voters
seeking his help must uncover their faces.

They told the Kettering MP that the Equality Act obliges him to avoid showing
any discrimination.

The missive says the campaigning group "will be happy to represent any of your
constituents that you refuse to meet because they are veiled".

The move brought widespread condemnation from critics last night.

John Midgley, founder of the Campaign Against Political Correctness, said: "It's
a diabolical liberty that an organisation such as Liberty is using a politically
correct piece of legislation to prevent debate on a legitimate area of concern.

"Isn't it amazing this organisation should want to undermine free speech in a
free country?"

Demeaning

Mr Hollobone is trying to bring in a Private Member's Bill to ban women wearing
the burkha or the similar niqab, in public after the French parliament voted for
a similar ban.

He said he would "invite" any constituent who did not wish to remove their veil
to communicate with him in a "different way", such as by letter. Mr Hollobone
said: "It is unnatural for someone to cover their face and it not a religious
requirement. We are never going to have a fully integrated society if an
increasing proportion of the population cover their faces."

UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage, whose party is also pressing for the
burkha and other face coverings to be outlawed, said: "Liberty are choosing the
wrong target. They should recognise the public fully support Mr Hollobone."

James Welch, Legal Director for Liberty, said yesterday: "We have written to Mr
Hollobone to advise him of the law as enacted by Parliament and feel confident
that no welladvised Honourable Member would seek to breach it by meeting with
constituents on a discriminatory basis."

Earlier this month, France voted to outlaw the wearing of Islamic full-face
veils in public. The British Government was urged to follow Paris's example and
stand up against the face and body coverings which have been condemned for
demeaning women and creating a divided Britain.

In France, where the burkha has been described as a "walking coffin", the new
law, which has yet to be ratified, would mean women face being fined or jailed
for hiding their faces in public.

And men who force their wives to wear a full Islamic veil would receive even
tougher fines and up to a year behind bars.

France has already banned religious clothing such as Muslim headscarves, Jewish
skull caps and Christian crosses from schools.

President Nicolas Sarkozy condemned fullface veils as a "sign of debasement".
Spain and the Netherlands are now considering similar legislation. And
politicians in Belgium have also been discussing plans to ban the burkha in
public.

There are widespread calls for Britain to also outlaw the veils, which are
becoming an increasingly common sight on UK streets.

UKIP is supporting a British ban on the grounds that the burkha is a symbol of
"divided Britain". Mr Farage said the covering "disadvantages" women "in every
walk of life".

OPINION: PAGE 12

Should the burkha be banned in Britain?

YES: 0901 030 8338 NO: 0901 030 8339

No text DXMoNNo to 80088 Yes text DXMoNYes to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 26, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Outrage over court threat sent to burkha-ban Tory

BYLINE: Sarah Westcott

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 430 words


A TORY MP battling to ban the burkha faces legal action if he refuses to meet
his constituents while they are wearing the controversial veils, lawyers warned
last night.

Critics last night accused human rights group Liberty of stifling "free speech"
after it sent MP Philip Hollobone a missive warning him he was breaching
anti-discrimination laws.

Mr Hollobone sparked a row earlier this month when he argued that he needed to
be face-to-face with voters who wanted his help.

But lawyers for Liberty have now written to the Kettering MP insisting that the
Equality Act obliges him to avoid discrimination. The missive says the
campaigning group "will be happy to represent any of your constituents that you
refuse to meet because they are veiled".

The move brought widespread condemnation from critics last night.

John Midgley, founder of the Campaign Against Political Correctness, said: "It's
a diabolical liberty that an organisation such as Liberty is using a politically
correct piece of legislation to prevent debate on a legitimate area of concern.

"Isn't it amazing this organisation should want to

Outlaw

undermine free speech in a free country?"

UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage, whose party is pressing for the
burkha and other face coverings to be outlawed, added: "Liberty are choosing the
wrong target. What about the recent Metropolitan Police cover-up?

"They should recognise the public support Mr Hollobone."

Mr Hollobone, who pointed out that veiling the face is not a Muslim religious
requirement, is also trying to bring in a Private Member's Bill to ban women
wearing the burkha or niqab in public, after the French introduced a similar
rule. He said he would "invite" anyone who did not wish to remove their veil to
communicate with him in a "different way", such as by letter.

James Welch, legal director for Liberty, said: "We have written to Mr Hollobone
to advise him of the law as enacted by Parliament and feel confident that no
well-advised Honourable Member would seek to breach it by meeting with
constituents on a discriminatory basis."

In France, where the burkha has been described as a "walking coffin", the new
law means women will be fined or jailed for hiding their faces in public.

And men who force their wives to wear a full Islamic veil will face up to a year
in jail.

The British Government was urged to follow Paris's example and stand up against
the face and body coverings which have been condemned for creating a divided
Britain. A ban on burkhas is supported by 99 per cent of Britons, a Daily
Express poll found last month.

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: July 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Muslim women are being asked by an MP to remove full-face veils

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 26, 2010 Monday 6:30 PM GMT

Cameron gave in to US senators' insolent demands over Lockerbie. Why didn't he
ask about the Democrats' support for Irish terrorists?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1599 words


As we come to the Summer Recess, I do not think that the LibDemCon Coalition has
done badly so far.In my view the only argument for it was that it gave the
Conservatives cover to prescribe economic medicine which not only NuLab but also
the Lib Dems had campaigned against at the general election.That it has done -
but waving the prescription isone thing, taking the medicineis another. The
stress will come on through the summer and autumn, as proposed cuts become real
ones.

Nor is there much doubt that some Ministers have discovered that colleagues from
the other party are really quite congenial chaps. In the Lords we have long
known that.I would always describe the Lib Dem leader there, Lord McNally, as a
friend.It is that expression "My Noble Friend", which denotes that one shares a
political allegiance and agenda, that sticks in my throat.

I suspect that this political backslapping and all the stuff about "grown-up
politics" in which differences of political belief are set aside is responsible
for some of the sloppy government we have seen of late.

The Prime Minister during his visit to America was so concerned to have a public
relations success that he forgot our history and where our national interest
lies. I take it, of course, that Eton has not fallen victim to the falling
academic standards in state education and that Mr Cameron was aware of that
nasty period when the USA was neutral and its ambassador in London, the father
of the future President Kennedy, was dripping anti-British poison into
Roosevelt's ear, in the hope that we would be overwhelmed by Nazi Germany.

Mr Cameron gave in to the insolent demands of senators to question him about the
release of the Lockerbie bomber.Of course that release was odious. He needed to
say so. But he would have done well to have asked what Americanpolitical and
commercial interests over many yearswere served by the repeated refusals of the
American authorities to extradite suspect IRA/Sinn Fein terrorists to face trial
here in the UK. He might even have questioned the fundraising activities on
behalf of the political arm of the Republican terrorist movement.After all, they
killed thousands more than died at Lockerbie, and the families and friends of
the victims have a right to know the truth about the terrorist connections of
some American Democratic Partypoliticans.

At home the same touchy-feely sloppiness was evident at Prime Minister's
Question time when Mr Clegg was standing in for Mr Cameron.I had never thought
that anyone could have made a more complete hash of it than Mr, sorry, Lord
Prescott.I was wrong.He would never have mouthed offpersonal opinions that were
contrary to those of the Government.Not so Mr Clegg. Quite reasonably he thinks
that the invasion of Iraq was an error. To his credit, he said so at the time.
However, his opinion that it was illegal is not in accord with the view of the
Government. Nor is it sensible.What is lawfulin this country is what Parliament
says is lawful and it remains so until Parliament says otherwise.

One day, I hope Parliament will declarethis Kingdom to beno longer part of the
European Union.People like Mr Clegg, and many others with divided loyalties,
will declare that decision to be illegal.It is important that we give such ideas
no credence. It is also important that Mr Clegg should be reminded that when he
answers for the Government he has no right to blab about what he thinks. His job
is to say what the Government thinks.

In the meantime the saintly Mr Cable has had to be shot down over promoting a
policy (and a silly one at that ) on the repayment of the costs of university
education which is not government policy, while the Green Secretary for Energy,
Mr Huhne, seeks to nobble the Government's policy on nuclear power in favour of
his absurd attachment to wind energy.We can only pray that attachment might
proveas fickle as some of his others have done.

The danger for the Government, the Conservative Party and the country is that to
keep the Lib Dems on board to give cover for the resolution of our short term
economic problems, the Lib Dem tail will keep wagging the Conservative head of
the coalition dog and disastrous long term policies on defence, energy,
immigration and Europe will be taken in bouts of bonhomie.

The coalition partners will probably get away with it at this year's Party
Conferences. Next year may be a different story.

...

The EU did not find many friends amongst those commenting on this site recently.
Elliot Kan, brookse, mike stallard and others made that plain.How long before we
entirely lose our sovereignty, asked steve withak, to be promptly answered by
justintime: "Not long."Nor did Baroness Ashton find any friends, and certainly
not ooopiop or remittance man,although I have to defend her by saying that she
is far from silly and is a perfectly pleasant person. However, I fear she is a
member of the political class who are more inclined to find commoncause with
foreign fellow members of that class than with their fellow countrymen and women
from outside the class.That is, I think, the answer to crownarmourer and to
peasant, who asked why the leadersof political parties tend to become so
pro-EU.They also have the unremitting advice of the Foreign Office, not so much
looking for a new role for Britain as a new role for the Foreign Office and from
a strong lobby of multilateral businesses who want multilateral markets and
multilateral solutions to their problems.

As humf put it, too many politicians become too well-off and comfortable in the
EU. It is all too easy to bathe in a warm glow of reasonability and
self-righteousness in the Council of Ministers as one gives way on one's own
national interests to reach yet another agreement before a convivial lunch.

I am surehagar and bersher are right about "I vow to thee my country", but I am
sure that no member of the political class would agree.

As ever, the media got a bit of a kicking from Nigel Rogers, julier,hkwilly and
hagar for being too favourable to the EU, but be reasonable,chaps: I would not
describe The Telegraph as fawning on the EU, let alone The Mail or The Sun.Very
few people read The Guardian, and if we were not taxed to allow the BBC to be
free at the point of use, I suspect that its reader or listenership would come
crashing down. The media may influence readers, but readers can influence the
commercial media by ceasing to buy.I would suggest to hagar thatthere is
certainly no cause to buy the Wall Street Journal if it thinks either that the
PM of this LibDemCon coalition will push for a free market EU, or that if he did
theEUwould move an inch(sorry, centimetre) from its usual dirigiste policies.

The question so many of you pose is: What can be done about it?I do not share
darkseid's hopes of Mr Clegg.He is of the political class, through and through.
And I should say that I do not think my comments on the exchange between Sir
George Young (Leader of the Commons) and David Davis unfair. I took my account
of them from Hansard. Now it seems we are set to roll over and renege on Magna
Carta whenever a foreign EU police force wants to pursue a British subject, so
perhaps Sir George was wise to dodge the question.

We who want the United Kingdom to be an independent self-governing state find
ourselves rather like Churchill in 1940.He knew that victory could be achieved
only by bringing America into the war. Until then, we would haveto struggle on,
aided only by the Empire and Commonwealth and the patriotic forces of our
defeated European allies. When asked what was his plan towin the warhe simply
replied, "Just keep buggering on".

We who prize our independence today arewithout hope of outsideintervention to
win our war. There is no magic bullet, no "with one bound he was free"but like
Churchill we have to keep plugging on.We all have to make the case for freedom
wherever we can. The best place is within the political parties.Politicians are
sensitive to being booed at their own party conferences.They do not like
critical motions in their constituency party meetings. The Tories in particular
do not like to see votes cast for UKIP at European elections: it brings a fear
that it might happen at Parliamentary elections.

Cast Iron With Rust Spots suggested a Parliamentary Caucus on American lines and
there is the makings ofan anti EU caucus within Parliament in the form of The
Better Off Out Group. Despite the Cameron Fatwah against it, we meet regularly
exchange information and co-ordinate tactics.Alhamilton asked what would be the
effect of 500,000 people joining UKIP as opposed to the Tory Party.Frankly,
500,000 people joining any party would have a hefty effect on the other parties.

I think it was jaybee 001 who made the point that we have a duty to argue our
case or we will have accepted that for the EU.Indeed he is right. My motto is
Qui Tacet Consentit.That is: he who remains silent gives his consent.

Thank you all for your comments. There are some great dialogues on this site. I
hope that aasvogelwill forgive my miss spelling. I was pleased to see Alfred of
Albion has come come back. Of course steve-ipswich was right to say Alfred The
Great never ruled all of England, but had he not defeated Guthrum we would have
become a very different nation. I think he needs a visit to Bury St. Edmunds. It
isnt far from Ipswich.

As ever, my thanks to bersher. who not only put down davidlindsay for a
particularly silly attack on Margaret Thatcher, but provided the link to that
wonderful "No, No, No"speech.Do look at it and watch the expression on the face
of Douglas Hurd.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 July 25, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Summer bloodlust - with the usual wrong suspects

BYLINE: ROD LIDDLE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 675 words


It must be high summer; war has been declared upon Britain's most vulnerable
community, grey squirrels. This is the sort of thing that always happens in
summer - if it isn't grey squirrels, it's foxes, or mitten crabs, or magpies or
killer sea gulls swooping down on a hapless and cowering human population,
carrying off pasties and ice creams and kittens.

Summer is, by tradition, the time we set aside for having a go at our pesky
wildlife, largely because the politicians are on holiday so it's hard to have a
go at them. And this year it's the grey squirrels.

The whole business started when a man in Burton upon Trent called Raymond Elliot
drowned a grey squirrel that, for some reason, he'd taken exception to, in a vat
of water. This act of imperious cruelty was witnessed by a neighbour, who
reported him to the RSPCA; he was prosecuted for causing unnecessary suffering
to an animal. In court he pleaded guilty, was given a conditional discharge and
ordered to pay the society's £1,500 costs.

I didn't know there were squirrels of any hue in Burton upon Trent, and now I
know that there are, I think they need all the help they can get.

Anyway, a punishment for Elliot and the hounds of Fleet Street hell were let
loose. One tabloid journalist remarked that his very own daughter had been
bitten on the thumb by a grey squirrel quite recently. Apparently she had seen
the creature scampering across the grass and had attempted to make friends with
it.

The squirrel, thinking she was an idiot, bit her thumb.

Well, fair play. If she'd tried to make friends with me, I'd have bitten her
thumb, too, right down to the knuckle, especially if I knew who her father was.

Squirrels, however, being wild animals, have a better excuse - they only read
the broadsheets. The tabloid journalist expressed a wish to see all squirrels
executed forthwith, or at least sentenced to life in prison - and life means
life, mind you, not three months inside and then released to bite some other
tabloid hack's daughter on the thumb.

Then Britain's most eminent philosopher, Roger Scruton, weighed in with a
polemic about the very real need to strangle all squirrels - and isn't it sad
that the government no longer pays a bounty for killing squirrels as they did
when Macmillan was in office and a shame that we don't have the gold standard
and that Tanganyika is now called Tanzania. Actually, he didn't say those last
bits. But I bet he thinks it, or some of it.

And the truth is, I can't remember reading anything by Roger Scruton which
hasn't, at some point, mused upon the existential pleasure of killing an animal.
Someone should send him a lifetime's supply of sea monkeys which he can put in a
jar and pick off, one by one, in the comfort of his study, perhaps with a
shotgun, while reading aloud to them from Nietzsche.

The reason some people don't like grey squirrels - and foxes, come to that - is
that they are successful. They are clever and adaptive and take advantage of our
profligacy, our epic generosity with waste.

By and large, we like only those animals which have the equivalent of RSPB "red"
status - in other words, they are even more endangered than UKIP and almost as
useless. We like animals which cower away from us and are confined to a few
desolate refuges in Norfolk or the northwest of Scotland.

Our least favourite animals are almost always those which are the most prolific
in our local area - in London, where tabloid journalists live, squirrels,
pigeons, rats. In other words, colloquially, rats with tails, rats with wings,
and, uh, rats.

Our passion to save endangered animals, such as the red squirrel with its lovely
tufty ears, is seen as hard-headed, scientific (biodiversity!) and therefore
enlightened. But it isn't - it's just a convenience; save the animals which we
do not have to live among.

Grey squirrels - right-wing immigrant animals with an entrepreneurial flair,
devoted to reducing waste within society - should have our support, even - or
perhaps because - they occasionally savage the offspring of tabloid journalists.

LOAD-DATE: July 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 25, 2010 Sunday 6:05 PM GMT

The BNP is still far Right, whatever 'true Rightist' Dan Hannan may say

BYLINE: By Damian Thompson

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 984 words


OK, Hannan, I was wrong. It's bored with notbored of. I originally wrote that I
was "sick of" Right-wing Tories labelling the far Right BNP "far Left", then
toned it down without changing "of" to "with", allowing you to nip in with a
crafty "[sic]". Ouch. But your claim that the BNP is on the Left is still just
clever-clogs nonsense.

"Right" and "Left" are such vague and malleable words that defining them is like
nailing jelly to a wall. They're stipulative terms that anyone can play with.
That's not so true of adjectives such as "socialist" or "capitalist", which
carry much more restrictive (but useful) definitional baggage.

If you want to call the BNP socialist, fine: it's not in the mainstream of
socialist tradition, but it is close to the national socialism of Hitler (which
isn't the same thing as describing the BNP as neo-Nazi). We can take the
policies associated with socialism - which are, broadly speaking, the policies
associated with socialism 100 years ago - and tick boxes: the BNP, with its
programme of nationalisation and worker co-operatives, seems to pass the test.
But we can't apply the labels of Left and Right using the same tick-box
methodology, because those labels are essentially metaphorical and
impressionistic.

Admittedly, all categories are socially constructed - even scientific ones, as
post-modernists love to point out. But some are so loosely constructed that we
need to fall back on common sense: that is, take into account all sorts of
overlapping and contradictory factors, and acknowledge that common usage often
has a point.

People call the BNP far Right because they associate the far Right with racist
nationalism. And they will carry on doing so despite Hannan's insistence that
all fascist movements emerged from revolutionary socialism. His argument is
unconvincing because, unless you're sticking to a very narrow definition of
fascism, it's not true. The Nazis adopted many socialist policies, but they came
to power as a result of an alliance with ultra-conservative capitalists, and at
least one wing of the NSDAP clung on to a romantic, reactionary nationalism
abhorrent to most socialists. Likewise, mid 20th-century southern European
regimes often described as "fascist" (such as Franco's) were close to
authoritarian monarchists or ultramontanist Catholics.

I wonder if Dan Hannan thinks Vichy was Left-wing, for example. Remnants of its
ethos are found today in the French National Front, probably the most
influential far Right party in Europe. The BNP and the FN may not be close these
days, but they have tried to form alliances in the past. I once knew a British
far Right activist who worked tirelessly to create an ideology for the BNP
drawing on the work of European extreme Right intellectuals. This guy was a
senior figure in the BNP until he was ousted in one of its inevitable Life of
Brian purges; yes, he wrote a lot of guff about mobilising the workers, but he
and his allies had emerged from the crazy fringes of the 1980s Tory Party.
(Incidentally, our blogger Lord Tebbit, then party chairman, deserves credit for
getting rid of many of these fanatics.)

Dan may not acknowledge this fact, but there is a continuum of (usually very
unpleasant) views stretching between the loopy Right of the Tory Party and the
BNP. I have myself seen people move along it, via groups with exaggeratedly
patriotic names (this was pre-UKIP). They didn't necessarily stay long in the
BNP, finding its national socialism and working-class ethos not to their liking.
But I'm not aware of a similar continuum between the Left of the Labour Party
and the BNP. No one disputes that most BNP voters are ex-Labour; but they tend
to be members of the old white working class with very conservative views on
social issues. This isn't to deny that Labour's hard Left represents one end of
a spectrum that encompasses extremist opinions; but the sects located on that
spectrum, such as Respect, have little in common ideologically with the BNP,
even if they trawl for votes on some of the same council estates.

I do agree with Dan that the BBC flings the term "Right-wing" around as a
deliberate insult. It's also intellectually lazy in its application of the label
"far Right" to political groups: in the days before and after the assassination
of Pim Fortuyn, for example, we were constantly being told that his economically
and socially liberal views were far Right simply because he opposed unchecked
immigration and the creation of Muslim ghettos. But when the BBC calls the BNP
far Right it's adopting a common sense definition that 99 per cent of the
population uses.

So can we say that race hatred equals far Right while class warfare equals far
Left? Up to a point. It's a rough and ready generalisation - but it makes more
sense than calibrating the Left-Right continuum according to the size of the
state, which would make the mostly lightly governed societies in the world far
Right. The crucial point is that we don't lose sight of the significance of that
word far. It indicates that people have travelled a long way from the
respectable Left- and Right-wing traditions of the political mainstream. Hannan
says that "a true Rightist believes that, other things being equal, the
individual should be as free as possible from state coercion". That is indeed
what a conservative believes, and it's emphatically not what the BNP believes
(though I have to say that if someone introduced himself to me as a true
Rightist I'd immediately check for signs of eye-swivelling).

In some respects - their paranoia, misanthropy and comic tendency to
excommunicate their own members - Marxist and neo-Nazi groups have more in
common with each other than with their respective mainstreams. But if we're
going to lump them all together as far Left, then we might as well throw out the
words Left and Right altogether, because they will have been drained of meaning.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             July 24, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cut the Lib Dems some slack on voting reform;
Tory crusaders for first-past-the-post must not pounce on their partners. Strong
government matters more

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 1092 words


AV? Are we bothered? That should be the subtext to the Tories' approach to
Liberal Democrat proposals for constitutional change. The possible humiliation
of the junior partner in the coalition poses a greater threat to the
Conservative-led Government than does a modest alteration to our voting system.
We Tories can live with or without AV, but if the proposal is sunk, then let
nobody say that we sunk it.

MPs departing Westminster next week for the summer recess now have a date for
the referendum. On May 5 next year, the electorate will be invited to decide -
yes or no - whether we should modify the system by which we elect our MPs. I
shall be forced to place my cross in one of only two boxes: (i) "yes", or (ii)
"no". Were there to be two more boxes: (iii) "on balance, no, but I can live
with it", and (iv) "ooh, go on then ...", my pencil would hover, tempted,
between both.

Late in 1978, I was elected as MP for West Derbyshire by the Alternative Vote
system. I do realise the general election that sent me to Westminster took place
in 1979 according to the first-past-the-post system. But it was the final
selection meeting of the West Derbyshire Conservative Association in the
previous year that really made me an MP.

They handed me the blue rosette that in parts of Britain is capable of sending
to Parliament the proverbial monkey.

And this, like most Tory candidate selections, was done according to what is in
principle a version of AV, involving a series of run-offs rather than an
ordering of preferences. The last two candidates standing, once a third had been
eliminated, were myself and Michael Howard. Mr Howard, as he was then, got
easily the most votes in the first round, between three candidates, but once it
boiled down to two, I proved to have been a popular second choice, and won.
Though a beneficiary, I've no view as to the superiority or otherwise of this
way of choosing a name: there are strong arguments both ways. Anyway, Michael
went on to greater things - not least, in my view, saving the Conservative
Party.

I'd like to help save the Liberal Democrats. For purely arithmetical reasons,
their morale is important if the strong Government that Britain so needs is to
be sustained. But, beyond that, Lib Dems bring to government and to their
Conservative partners a distinct and healthy slant on politics. There is a
reactionary component in the Tory make-up; I often share it, but it must always
be kept in check.

As Parliament rises, however, the Liberal Democrats' situation is very tricky
indeed. To be second fiddle in an administration that's doing tough things, not
all of which you or your supporters like, is invidious. Doubtless there will be
rebellions in the division lobbies before the year is out, and maybe even a
defection or two; but a serious mutiny is less likely, because that could spark
another general election: catastrophic to the Lib Dem party, whose poll ratings
are already sinking. The party is trapped, and some within it feel this cruelly.

But that shouldn't be a cause for rejoicing among Tories. The danger for the
coalition is not schism, but a collapse in Lib Dem morale. The whole Lib-Con
project is flying on wings of confidence and, as B.B. King sang, "You'd better
not look down, or you might not keep on flying."

Political despair or malice quickly feeds into the media, and thence into the
public imagination. In that imagination the coalition is today characterised by
an impression of public-spiritedness, idealism and goodwill. Were the partners
to start bickering, this could shatter.

David Cameron in particular is seen as behaving generously. Were Lib Dem MPs and
their party to regard him as having taken them for a ride, that too would
impinge on his national reputation. He knows this.

But do all his MPs know it? It lies within the Conservative Parliamentary
Party's power to seize the No campaign for next spring's AV referendum as a
distinctly Tory cause, in which they might be able to associate themselves
closely with what, for Lib Dems, may feel a very painful defeat.

There are several reasons for this. AV, though a psychologically important first
step, is not really what Liberal Democrats wanted; and, being idealists, they
may not mount a very convincing campaign. They won't be helped by this week's
news of Lord Ashcroft's poll of marginal constituencies, which strongly suggests
that AV could be a net winner for the Conservative Party in circumstances where
the Lib Dem vote is collapsing. I would add that UKIP supporters are highly
likely to lend their second preference to the Tories, and not a few Tory voters
would return the compliment.

And Labour looks likely to betray the Lib Dems in their bid for a Yes to AV,
ditch Gordon Brown's election promises, and desert the campaign.

Meanwhile, Tory first-past-the-posters have a strong argument and (many of them)
a crusading zeal. And if by May next year the Government is unpopular, the
default answer to any question the Government puts to people may be no.

And there's a possible wild card in this referendum: Labour's coming leadership
election, after the summer. The party will use a version of AV. It could prove a
terrible advertisement for this constitutional change. What will really be a
three-cornered contest between David Miliband, Ed Miliband and Ed Balls will
generate a fog of confusion; and if (say) David Miliband starts ahead on first
preferences, he may in the end be sunk by the second preferences of supporters
of Diane Abbott, Andy Burnham and Ed Balls, all of which might fly to the other
Miliband, Ed, who may have looked like a loser at the first ballot - and then
win.

Remember that Labour's election for Deputy Leader finally produced Harriet
Harman, though at early stages John Cruddas and Alan Johnson looked more
popular.

These are just some of the reasons for thinking the Yes campaign is heading for
a series of woes. The Tories would be well advised not to compound them. I
suspect that the AV cause may be lost already. However, the Conservative Party
should be worrying more about the state of their governing partnership than
about a messy and arcane argument over a proposal that, even if adopted, may do
them little harm.

The Tories have the whip hand. The Lib Dems are in trouble. Next spring will be
no time to rub their noses in it. AV? Are we bothered? should be the
Conservative approach.

Morland on OpEd Live Don't miss the animated cartoon of Britain as 'junior
partner' to the US thetimes.co.uk/opinion

Michael went on to greater things - not least, saving the Party

LOAD-DATE: July 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: I once beat Michael Howard to the blue rosette through a form of AV
PHIL NOBLE/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 22, 2010 Thursday 3:02 PM GMT

If opposing the European Union makes one an extremist, count me in

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 848 words


Denis MacShane is a decent man. He was a strong supporter of Solidarity in the
1980s, he campaigns against the recent revival of anti-Semitism, and is also a
member of the pro-liberal democracy Henry Jackson Society.

The latter fact, in particular, makes his attitude to our own democracy so
strange. As he wrote on Twitter:

Farage on Q Time and Griffin at the Palace. MEP extremists running the show

He's referring to the fact that the BNP leader was supposed to be at Buckingham
Palace for a tea party today, while UKIP's most well-known politician, Nigel
Farage, will speak on BBC Question Time tonight.

Griffin, certainly, is extreme in some of his views, not just on race but also
on economics, his party advocating - among many socialist plans - greater
tariffs (just like the Greens, whose economic policies are almost identical).

But Farage? UKIP's policies are available here, but I imagine MacShane is
referring either to their policies on Europe or immigration.

On immigration:

End uncontrolled mass immigration . Introduce an immediate five-year freeze on
immigration for permanent settlement

Regain control of Britain's borders to stop foreign criminals from entering our
country

End abuse of the UK asylum system and expel Islamic extremists

Introduce a strict new points-based visa system and time-limited work permits

Triple the number of UK Borders Agency staff engaged in controlling immigration
(to 30,000)

And on international affairs:

Leave the EU and continue in free trade with the other European countries. No
jobs will be lost

Establish a Commonwealth Free Trade Area with the other member countries

Regain Britain's currently dormant seat at the World Trade Organisation

Promote democracy, genuine human rights and free determination around the world

Are these ideas extreme?

Wikipedia describes extremism as "a term used to describe the actions or
ideologies of individuals or groups outside the perceived political center of a
society; or otherwise claimed to violate common moral standards".

So what this senior Member of Parliament is saying is that anyone who advocates
withdrawal from the EU is beyond the pale of common moral standards, and so
their opinion must be worthless.

And yet survey after survey has shown a majority or large minority sharing the
UKIP view of national independence. In a Channel 4 poll last June 39 per cent
agree with the statement "The UK should withdraw completely from the European
Union", compared to 38 percent who disagreed, and 16 percent who said they
neither agreed nor disagreed. Twenty two per cent agreed strongly. Most polls
give a similar figure.

MacShane's not the first, of course; David Miliband said last year that the
Tories were flirting with "Euro-extremism" just by advocating joining the more
sceptical European Conservatives and Reformists.

But what's different is that MacShane is a supporter of the neocon Henry Jackson
Society, which aims to promote liberal democracy around the world. How can
someone hold two such conflicting ideas simultaneously?The very idea of liberal
democracy is dependent on the nation-state, and that it arose in England, an
independent, unified kingdom since 927, is no coincidence. No nation-state, no
liberal democracy.

As Roger Scruton wrote: "Democracy involves the ability to grant a share in
government to people with whom you profoundly disagree, including people of
another faith. This is possible only where government is secular, and where
nevertheless people revere the process of government as the expression of a
shared national identity."

And yet a small group of intellectuals following the ideas of French politician
Jean Monnet and Russian philosopher Alexandre Kojve have managed to make what
was once universally accepted "extremist".

Monnet was the architect of the European project, who, following the First World
War, dreamed of creating a new empire of Europe "in which the ghost of
nationalism had been finally exorcised". It was essentially a crazy idea thought
up by people deranged by the horror of the war, but through his "Monnet method"
of "integration by stealth" what was once considered insane is now universally
accepted in the corridors of power.

Kojve was the intellectual godfather of European unity, a Russian migr who
influenced a whole generation of French thinkers to believe in the new empire.
It was Kojve who, in Scruton's words, identified "the normality of the nation
state through its pathological examples. As Chesterton has argued about
patriotism generally, to condemn patriotism because people go to war for
patriotic reasons, is like condemning love because some loves lead to murder."

Kojve was, incidentally, working for the Soviet Union the whole time.

So which side are the extremists? As the second part of that Wikipedia
definition puts it:

In democratic societies, individuals or groups that advocate the replacement of
democracy with a authoritarian regime are usually branded extremists, in
authoritarian societies the opposite applies.

If opposing this new empire in Europe makes one an extremist, then count me in.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 21, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU chiefs' school bill hits £22m

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 132 words


HARD-pressed British taxpayers will have to pay £22million a year for Eurocrats
to send their children to private schools, it emerged yesterday.

Civil servants and diplomats are entitled to a free education for their children
at 14 taxpayerfunded "European schools".

The UK already contributes £14million to the £135million bill but this will soar
by 2013 to £22million.

The schools, mostly in Brussels, give a highly academic education to 22,500
pupils. Fees are up to £14,000 a year for children whose parents do not work for
the EU.

The Government pays salaries of up to £62,000 to about 240 British teachers at
the schools.

Nigel Farage, the European leader of Ukip, said: "It's incredible when ordinary
taxpaying people feel the pinch, that the pay and perks of fat Eurocrats
continue to rocket."

LOAD-DATE: July 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 20, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Cost of EU private schools rises;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 120 words


The cost of sending the children of EU civil servants and diplomats to14
taxpayer-funded "European schools" will rise by 24 per cent to £163million by
2013, according to EU figures.

The cost increases mean that in three years British taxpayers will be paying
£22million a year towards the private schooling of EU officials' children. There
are 22,500 pupils studying in the nursery, primary and secondary schools based
in seven countries.

Fees at the elite schools range from £9,000 to £14,000 for the children of
non-EU officials.

Nigel Farage, of Ukip, said it was incredible that the "pay and perks of
Eurocrats continue to rocket". Most of the schools are in Brussels, but one is
at Culham, near Abingdon in Oxfordshire.

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

1m Moldovans head for Britain

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 311 words


NEARLY one milion new Eastern European migrants could arrive in Britain due to a
loophole in EU law.

Citizens of the former Soviet republic of Moldova have been granted rights to
live and work here and in the EU by neighbours Romania.

More than 120,000 already have Romanian passports and 800,000 are understood to
have applied.

The loophole opened up after the EU's newest member granted citizenship rights
to ethnic Romanians in Moldova. Sir Andrew Green, chairman of the pressure group
MigrationWatch, said: "It is astonishing that almost a million Moldovans have
applied for EU citizenship.

"It's essential that Britain acts, together with her EU partners, or will have
another flood of cheap labour."

Earlier this year, Romanian president Traian Basescu said Moldovans should be
able to "move freely both in Romania and the European Union" and promised that
10,000 citizenship applications would be processed every month. The demand
Frankfurt for EU passports is so strong that the Romanian government has opened
two new consulates in Moldova, Europe's poorest state from which 90 per cent
plan to leave, according to the United Nations.

One senior Brussels-based diplomat said: "Enlargement is progressing through the
back door as we're already receiving enormous numbers of new citizens due to
citizenship policies of some member states.

"The overall figures are very striking and soon they will equal the population
of a small country." UK Independence Party Euro-MP Nigel Farage said: "Any
pretence that Britain can control its borders, or that immigration can be
contained while we stay in the European Union is destroyed by this revelation."

The Home Office imposed restrictions to ensure only skilled Romanians and
Bulgarians can apply for jobs but these expire in 2013.

A Home Office spokesman said: "This is a matter for the Romanian government."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Uproar after minister says: Let women wear a burkha if they want

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 521 words


A CABINET minister provoked outrage last night by suggesting wearing a burkha
could be "empowering" for some Muslim women.

Environment Secretary Caroline Spelman claimed that a full-face veil was seen as
"conferring dignity" in some Islamic societies, such as Afghanistan.

And she vowed to oppose calls for Britain to follow France in outlawing burkhas
in public.

She said: "We are a free country, we attach importance to people being free and
for a woman it is empowering to be able to choose each morning when you wake up
what you wear."

But her remarks sparked an angry reaction from critics last night.

UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage, whose party is pressing for the
burkha and other face coverings to be outlawed, said: "It is astonishing that a
member of the Government in the 21st century can say that women covering their
faces empowers them.

"It does not. It disadvantages them in every walk of life. Her comments are
ignorant and ill-founded." Mrs Spelman spoke out yesterday after the Government
ruled out banning the burkha, the niqab and other face veils.

Speaking on Sky News, she said: "I take a strong view on this actually. I don't,
living in this country as a woman, want to be told what I can and can't wear."

She said that she had united with Tory chairman Sayeeda Warsi - the first female
Muslim Cabinet Minister - in arguing "very strongly" about the freedom to choose
what to wear.

Mrs Spelman said: "One of the things we pride ourselves on in this country is
being free and being free to choose what you wear is a part of that so actually
banning the burkha is absolutely contrary I think to what this country is all
about."

She denied the burkha was "repressive" to women.

She added: "I've been out to Afghanistan and I think I understand much better as
a result of actually visiting why a lot of Muslim women want to wear the burkha.

"It is part of their culture, it is part of understanding that they choose to go
out in the burkha and I think those that live in this country, if they choose to
wear a burkha, should be free to do so." A recent YouGov opinion poll found more
than two thirds of voters in Britain want fullface veils banned.

Earlier this month French MPs voted to ban the burkha in France.

Yesterday, Muslim imam Dr Taj Hargey, chairman of the Muslim Education Centre in
Oxford, backed the call for a burkha ban.

"We're not telling these women what they can wear. We're telling them the only
thing they should do is uncover their faces," he said.

"I think this notion that somehow this is a religious symbol, a Koranic
requirement, is nonsense." But Immigration Minister Damian Green said a ban is
unlikely in Britain.

He said: "I stand personally on the feeling that telling people what they can
and can't wear, if they're just walking down the street, is a rather un-British
thing to do. We're a tolerant and mutually respectful society. "There are times,
clearly, when you've got to be able to identify yourself, and people have got to
be able to see your face, but I think it's very unlikely and it would be
undesirable for Parliament to try to pass a law dictating what people wore."

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Woman wears niqab face veil

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 19, 2010 Monday 9:32 PM GMT

Dave's Big Society is not a top-down project - that's why it was launched by the
Prime Minister

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 740 words


Of all the Blairesque chimeras pursued by David Cameron, none has more the
resonance of a political epitaph than "Big Society". Since very few people
became aware of it during the course of the general election campaign, a skilful
politician would have allowed it to fall into desuetude; but Dave, with that
streak of self-defeating stubbornness that those of us who detest his policies
find highly encouraging, is pressing on with this scam.

He has now launched it in Liverpool, with a generous infusion of the prolific
Daveguff to which we have become accustomed: "It's my hope - and my mission -
that when people look back at this five, 10-year period from 2010, they'll say:
'In Britain they didn't just pay down the deficit, they didn't just balance the
books, they didn't just get the economy moving again, they did something really
exciting in their society.' "

Sorry, Dave, that is not what people will be saying when they look back at your
time in government: they will be saying something very similar, though more
venomous, to what they are currently saying when they look back on the
Blair/Brown years; but, after all, as the Heir to Blair, presumably you would
wish to share his legacy, so you will not have a problem with that.

The important thing to know about Big Society is that it is not a top-down
exercise; that is why it is being launched by - er - the Prime Minister. It will
be funded by state confiscation of private bank accounts in which there has been
no activity for 15 years, thus creating the Big Society Bank to redistribute
this wealth (they had something similar in Moscow from 1917 to 1990). If you
feel there is not a lot voluntarist about this, remember that the Big Society
blueprint acknowledges Marxist revolutionary Saul Alinsky as its first begetter;
but it has had a thorough blue-rinse to sanitise it and it is now reassuringly
Conservative Marxism.

Supporting Dave in launching this exciting new vision was television executive
Phil Redmond, whose name speaks for itself, being synonymous with all things
voluntarist and free-market, as the Thatcherite tenor of his television dramas
has long testified. Four areas have been selected as "vanguard" (a good
Trotskyite term, that) regions for enhanced voluntary activity. That enhancement
will be enforced - sorry, facilitated - by dedicated civil servants, because
this is not a top-down exercise. Officials will identify local residents with
particular aptitude to participate in Big Society projects and will train them
as community organisers, because this is not a top-down exercise.

There will eventually be 5,000 community organisers - the instruments Alinsky
defined as crucial to promoting revolution, except that this will be a
Compassionate Conservative revolution and therefore a good thing, particularly
since it is not a top-down exercise. Anybody who is concerned that this
free-wheeling experiment in local initiative could get out of hand will be
reassured to know that neighbourhood "group leaders" will be equipped with a
code of conduct that "will protect neighbourhood groups against extremist
causes". So there will be no danger of infiltration by the Turnip Taliban, UKIP
voters or climate deniers.

Civil servants will have their contribution to community organisation taken into
account in their career assessments, which will motivate them to take part, in
the classic spirit of voluntarism. Windsor and Maidenhead, one of the privileged
Potemkin villages already selected, is already experimenting with a scheme of
financial incentives (note the truly voluntarist character of this initiative)
to induce residents to improve recycling rates.

Some of you may feel that this is not quite how your existing voluntary
organisations - your local tennis club, the WRI, the Boy Scouts - came into
existence; but these are changed times and Dave needs an appropriate legacy.
That will not be provided by groups of undisciplined enthusiasts in different
parts of the country getting together to do their own thing, as has happened too
often in the past. When Dave gets round to launching his Contract with Britain
we shall have a National Citizen Service for every 16-year-old "to help bring
the country together".

Nobody has any time for this absurd scheme, except politicians and civil
servants. It will crash and burn, like the rest of Dave's fantasy programme; but
you have to give it one thing - at least it is not a top-down project.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 19, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Oil giant gave £1 million to fund climate sceptics;
ExxonMobil broke its pledge to halt payments Esso's owner gave £1m to global
warming sceptics

BYLINE: Ben Webster

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 830 words


One of the world's largest oil companies has broken its pledge to stop funding
groups that promote scepticism about man-made climate change.

ExxonMobil, parent company of Esso, gave almost £1 million last year to
organisations that campaign against controls on greenhouse gas emissions.

Several made outspoken attacks on climate scientists at the University of East
Anglia and argued their leaked e-mails showed that the dangers of global warming
had been grossly exaggerated.

The scientists were exonerated this month by an independent inquiry but groups
funded by Exxon have continued to lambast them. The Media Research Centre, which
received $50,000 last year from Exxon, called the inquiry a "whitewash" and
condemned "climate alarmists".

Some of Exxon's largest donations were to groups that lobbied against a global
deal on emissions being reached at the climate summit last December in
Copenhagen.

Exxon could see the value of its oil and gas investments fall sharply if
governments adopt aggressive plans to reduce their dependence on fossil fuels.

The energy giant had indicated it was pulling back from funding sceptics.

In its 2007 Corporate Citizenship Report, it stated: "In 2008 we will
discontinue contributions to several public policy groups whose position on
climate change could divert attention from the important discussion on how the
world will secure energy required for economic growth in an environmentally
responsible manner."

Exxon also gave reassurances last year that it had no funding links with the
sceptics' biggest annual conference, the International Conference on Climate
Change. But a list published by Exxon this month of its "2009 worldwide
contributions and investments" revealed that it had given four cosponsors of the
New York event a total of $275,000. It also gave $1 million to 20 other sceptic
groups.

Bob Ward, policy director at the London School of Economics' Grantham Research
Institute on Climate Change, who has been monitoring Exxon's links to sceptic
groups, said: "Exxon has engaged in a public relations campaign to convince the
world that it has stopped funding climate sceptic groups. But this has turned
out to be pure greenwash. Exxon has continued to provide financial support for
many groups that are engaged in activities to persuade the public and
policymakers into wrongly believing that climate change is a hoax.

"The aim of these groups, some of which try to keep their sponsors secret, is
blatantly obvious: to delay government regulation that would reduce greenhouse
gas emissions by restricting the use of oil, gas and coal."

Four of the groups funded by Exxon -the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, the
Media Research Centre, the Pacific Research Institute and the Heritage
Foundation - co-sponsored the New York conference attended by prominent British
sceptics, including Lord Monckton of Brenchley, the UK Independence Party deputy
leader.

Lord Monckton was caught on camera during the Copenhagen summit describing
students campaigning for emissions cuts as "Hitler Youth" and "Nazis". Benny
Peiser, director of the Global Warming Policy Foundation, the sceptic think-tank
founded by the former Conservative chancellor Lord Lawson of Blaby, also
attended the conference.

Ben Lieberman, senior policy analyst at the Heritage Foundation, argued in his
Climategate Should Derail Copenhagen Conference paper that the US should not
sign a deal on emissions because the science on climate change was unproven. "We
wouldn't rush to execute a convicted killer just after learning that his main
accusers committed perjury. We shouldn't do the same to the economy in order to
combat the increasingly questionable threat of global warming."

K. Lloyd Billingsley, of the Pacific Research Institute, wrote: "Global warming
is a hoax inside a fraud wrapped in a myth."

After being contacted by The Times, Exxon announced that it would no longer fund
the Atlas Economic Research Foundation, the Media Research Centre or the Pacific
Research Institute. Exxon did not comment on whether it would continue to fund
the other 21 sceptic groups to which it gave money last year .

It said in a statement: "We fund a wide range of groups. Every year, we do an
evaluation and make funding decisions.

If a group's position on climate change becomes distracting or diverts attention
away from this important discussion, we evaluate whether we will continue
funding." Exxon said it selected groups because of their work "on a variety of
issues, for example Heritage Foundation to further discussion on tax and trade
issues".

Mr Ward said Exxon should explain why it had taken so long to withdraw support
from groups with a long history of promoting climate scepticism. Exxon claimed
that it was committed to tackling climate change and pointed to a speech made
last year by Rex Tillerson, its chief executive, in which he called for a carbon
tax.

5% chance that climate changes are due to natural processes alone, the IPCC says
Leading article, page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 July 18, 2010
                                 First Edition

Author of his own downfall ...;
The war of words may have entertained the chattering classes for days, but
publication of 'The Third Man', Lord Mandelson's memoirs, left him with scarcely
a friend in the Labour Party Pariah! His controversial return to the front
benches two years ago helped to shore up Gordon Brown's government and finally
won him the admiration of his party. Now Peter Mandelson has thrown it all away
- for money. Brian Brady reports

BYLINE: Brian Brady

SECTION: NEWS WEEKLY; Pg. 50

LENGTH: 1746 words


'This may seem an odd admission from someone who once embodied New Labour's
reputation for spin and control freakery," Lord Mandelson says in the first
paragraph of the introduction to his "frank, honest and revealing" memoirs, "but
almost everything about this book is different from what I had imagined it would
be."

Tell that to his friends, his enemies and everyone else in the Labour Party.
They expected bitchiness, self-serving justification and cant and The Third Man
gave it to them; they expected score-settling, distortions of the truth and a
rewriting of Labour history, largely to the detriment of the author's many
enemies, and he did not let them down. Or, rather, he did. Irretrievably.

Mandelson has come a long way within Labour: he has suffered general opprobrium
and two cabinet resignations. But he did contribute to three election victories.
Once, colleagues were conflicted about the Prince of Darkness - appalled by what
he stood for, yet grudgingly appreciative of his talents. But now, after a week
of all-out in-fighting, they feel free to revile him wholeheartedly. And it is
all his own fault.

The spinmeister always stressed to his enemies in the party that he was at least
as traditionally Labour as them. The second chapter of his book is entitled
"Born into Labour".

"I was conscious of feeling somehow special," he recalls of a visit to Downing
Street when a family friend, Harold Wilson, was prime minister. "Conscious, too,
that part of that feeling had to do with the fact that my bond with Labour
really began with my family. My mother was the only child of Herbert Morrison,
the founding general secretary of the Labour Party in London, a minister in
Ramsay MacDonald's 1929 government and the first Labour leader of the London
County Council in the 1930s."

It never quite convinced, however, perhaps because his attachment appeared to be
with Labour nobility rather than its grassroots. The dalliances with the rich
and famous, with the Hindujas and the Deripaskas, served only to underline the
distance between him and the party.

Even the Labour grandee Denis Healey, who was drawn to Mandelson by his family
connections, now admits he has never been a fan. "I took an interest in him, due
to his relationship to Herbert Morrison, who I knew very well," Lord Healey
said. "I've read reviews of [the book] and little bits quoted in the papers, but
he is not a chap who ever attracted me. I like people who are straightforward
and pragmatic."

This was a view shared by many within Labour, albeit with more conviction -
until, at their conference last year, Mandelson was presented with what he
describes as "an unlikely last chance" to convince the party of his good
intentions. "It was not just a matter of fulfilling Tony's memorable test for
the success of New Labour: teaching the party to 'love Peter Mandelson'," he
writes. "What I wanted to get across most of all was my own love for Labour,
[and] my experience of its highs and lows over the past quarter of a century.

"From the first burst of applause, I knew that my genuine sense of homecoming
was getting across and that the party - my party, from the moment I had first
cared about and been entranced by politics - felt it too." Lord Mandelson
recalls the delirium of his standing ovation, and the next day's papers,
including a now-treasured Mirror front page declaring "We Love Mandy".

He adds, with epic self-satisfaction: "Improbable though it seemed, Labour had,
at long last, learned to love Peter Mandelson."

But now, over two months, countless self-regarding interviews and 566 pages,
Labour has conclusively managed to unlearn that lesson.

Mandelson has finally managed to put himself beyond the pale. Not only has the
bulk of the Labour Party decided that he can safely be regarded as a pariah, but
even his friends have joined the sniping. That Lord Prescott was "furious" about
the book is no great surprise, but Mandelson's original mentor, Lord Kinnock,
was described as "spitting". "It is a compendium of quotations for the enemy and
a way of fixing a bank balance," the former Labour leader declared.

Tony Blair, meanwhile, is reliably described as "livid" - as much over the
book's timing, before his own reaches the shops, as its content.

Mandelson's removal from New Labour's high command is complete. David Miliband
has called the book "destructive and self-destructive" and his brother, Ed,
declared it as "damaging to Peter, not just to the Labour Party". Andy Burnham
said: "Peter loves the spotlight but it's time to leave the stage."

All of which raises the question of whether the man born into Labour really
cares about the party anymore. Out of government, out of the Commons and with
little hope of returning to either, it appears Mandelson has decided to decouple
himself from the constraints of party politics and move on to the next stage of
his life.

He might prefer to go back to Europe, but his book and interviews in recent days
have raised the tantalising possibility of him becoming involved in David
Cameron's big tent politics. The peer was less than excoriating when talking
about the Tory leader last week (a good politician, albeit with no ideology) and
has not ruled out working with him ("The Prime Minister? What would he do with
me?").

He may at last be prepared to leave Labour to the Labourites, who are now
involved in attempts to get past the Blair-Brown-Mandelson era (as he calls it)
with a leadership election in the autumn. The final chapter of the book is
called "The End of New Labour?". It might well be - although the list of young
modernisers in the race suggests a return to Old Labour is implausible. More
likely, it is the end of Peter Mandelson's lifelong attachment to the heart of
the party.

Additional reporting by Mark Jewsbury, James Burton, Lyndsey Fineran and
Claudine Harris

VOX POP PAGE 56

DJ TAYLOR PAGES 102-103

'It seems to be a very self-centred and rather spiteful piece of work. I hope we
don't see him in the House of Lords again.'

LORD MORGAN, LABOUR HISTORIAN

'It is a warning to everyone in the future that they shouldn't even exchange a
casual joke, let alone a confidence, because it is plainly all going to be
regurgitated for the delight of our political enemies and the bank account of
the writer. It changes the whole currency of the internal politics of a party
and a government. It doesn't add anything to any historical understanding. As
far as I can see, this autobiography is retailed gossip. There is certainly no
big picture. Mandelson is a creative spirit, but this caricature of the Prince
of Darkness was developed, and Peter inhaled it. He seems to believe that the
cartoon was an oil painting.'

LORD KINNOCK, WHO EMPLOYED MANDELSON AS HIS DIRECTOR OF COMMUNICATIONS

'Gordon Brown, for all his tantrums, comes out as the sanest of the three.'

KEN LIVINGSTONE FORMER MAYOR OF LONDON

'I didn't like him at all. I thought he was a very devious fellow.'

LORD HEALEY FORMER LABOUR DEPUTY LEADER

'I haven't read the book. I have no intention of reading it. Why would I want
to? He seems to have lost the plot.'

CHARLIE WHELAN, FORMER SPIN-DOCTOR TO GORDON BROWN

'The whole period seems to reflect a period of complete emptiness; New Labour,
political precocity. Mandelson is a bright man, but he has spent too much time
in the dark plotting against everybody. His revisionism nearly destroyed the
Labour Party.'

MARK SEDDON FORMER EDITOR OF 'TRIBUNE'

'History doesn't belong to the victors, it belongs to whoever writes it up.
Mandelson is getting his retaliation in first.'

PAUL STAINES, GUIDO FAWKES BLOGGER

'He is his own worst spin-doctor. He seems to have offended just about everyone.
I think this is sad and damaging to Peter, not just to the Labour Party.'

ED MILIBAND LABOUR LEADERSHIP CONTENDER

'Peter loves the spotlight but it's time to leave the stage.'

ANDY BURNHAM LABOUR LEADERSHIP CONTENDER

'My advice to people would be to read more serious books.'

CLARE SHORT FORMER LABOUR CABINET MINISTER

'These diaries are highly personalised, sensationalised and self-promoting, and
totally bereft of ideology. It's all childish tittle-tattle.'

MICHAEL MEACHER, LABOUR MP

'It's tired drivel. I think I read half a sentence and then started to think of
other things. Miles and miles of FA. Like a Chinese meal, he strings a lot
together and then it's just air. All he has is superficiality. I see the panic
of someone who has lost his main source of income. I'm paralysed with
indifference.'

PAUL FLYNN, LABOUR MP

'He gives good advice to others in terms of handling oneself and the media, but
he doesn't apply that same logic to himself.'

BRIAN DONOHOE, LABOUR MP

'He was pretty treacherous and this just proves it.'

CLIVE EFFORD, LABOUR MP

'I think he's having a laugh.'

MIKE HANCOCK, LIB DEM MP

'It's well timed, I'll give him that. He knows releasing them now will make him
a good chunk of money - perhaps he'll declare it or perhaps not.'

JOHN HEMMING, LIB DEM MP

'Why do people have to do it?'

BRIAN IDDON, FORMER LABOUR MP

'The people at the top may feel the need to publicise their squabbles but the
people who end up suffering are the volunteers, the staff, the supporters who
work tirelessly for very little thanks.'

JANE KENNEDY, FORMER LABOUR MP

'It always shocks me, the haste with which people try to rush these things out.'

JIM KNIGHT, FORMER LABOUR MP

'The publication of the memoirs confirms in my view that he was, is and always
will be a complete shit. His motives were money and the urge to see his name in
lights again. He's now off to spend time with the rich and well connected, who
he feels much more comfortable around.'

IAN DAVIDSON, LABOUR MP

'What Peter Mandelson says is that we have to learn lessons. The most important
lesson is that we have to move on beyond Peter Mandelson.'

Wayne David

LABOUR MP FOR CAERPHILLY

'Why on earth would you read anything that Lord Mandelson has said? You simply
know it will be a lie. The man spews out complete fabrication and is chronically
and pathologically incapable of telling the truth.'

GODFREY BLOOM, UKIP MEP

'They should really be subtitled Mandy's Misery Memoirs. What we hadn't realised
was that this was a whole Princess Diana situation, that there were three people
in the marriage. Everybody in the Labour Party will be reading this with two
emotions: sheer horror, and absolute determination never to let this happen
again.'

STEPHEN POUND, LABOUR MP

'I haven't read it, and I won't read it. I've got better things to be doing with
my time.'

ROGER GODSIFF, LABOUR MP

LOAD-DATE: July 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 18, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Burka ban ruled out by minister;
Exclusive Outlawing the Muslim veil 'would be un-British' Green promises
crackdown on illegal immigrants

BYLINE: PATRICK HENNESSY

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 851 words


BRITAIN WILL not follow France by introducing a law banning women from wearing
the burka, the immigration minister ruled last night.

Damian Green said such a move would be "rather un-British" and run contrary to
the conventions of a "tolerant and mutually respectful society".

He said it would be "undesirable" for Parliament to vote on a burka ban in
Britain and that there was no prospect of the Coalition proposing it.

His comments will dismay the growing number of supporters of a ban. A YouGov
survey last week found that 67 per cent of voters wanted the wearing of
full-face veils to be made illegal.

Mr Green used a wide-ranging interview with The Sunday Telegraph, his first
since taking up his post at the Home Office in May, to issue a "message around
the world that Britain is no longer a soft touch on immigration". He said the
summer would see a major crackdown on the main streams of illegal immigration -
including sham marriages, illegal workers and people trafficking - and confirmed
that this autumn the Government would set an overall cap on migrants entering
Britain from outside the European Union.

His firm decision to rule out a burka ban will disappoint some Right-of-centre
Tory MPs, including Philip Hollobone, who has tabled a private member's bill
that would make it illegal for anyone to cover their face in public.

Mr Hollobone, the MP for Kettering, said this weekend that he would refuse to
hold any constituency meetings with women wearing burkas.

The United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) has also supported calls for a ban
after last week's vote by French parliamentarians to outlaw fullface veils,
including burkas, in public. Deputies in France's National Assembly backed the
ban by 335 votes to one.

The Rt Rev Michael Nazir-Ali, the former Bishop of Rochester, today says he is
not in favour of an outright ban on the burka - but adds that they should not be
worn if doing so "compromises public or personal safety, endangers national
security or impedes professional or social interaction".

In an article for The Sunday Telegraph he says: "In those circumstances, it is
difficult to see how it can be allowed."

Mr Green said he did not think that the French vote for a ban would have an
impact on immigration into Britain.

"I stand personally on the feeling that telling people what they can and can't
wear, if they're just walking down the street, is a rather un-British thing to
do," he said. "We're a tolerant and mutually respectful society.

"There are times, clearly, when you've got to be able to identify yourself, and
people have got to be able to see your face, but I think it's very unlikely and
it would be undesirable for the British  Parliament to try and pass a law
dictating what people wore.

"I think very few women in France actually wear the burka. They [the French
parliament] are doing it for demonstration effects.

"The French political culture is very different. They are an aggressively
secular state. They can ban the burka, they ban crucifixes in schools and things
like that.

"We have schools run explicitly by religions. I think there's absolutely no
readacross to immigration policy from what the French are doing about the
burka."

Mr Green's comments came after the new head of the Muslim Council of Britain
(MCB) told The Sunday Telegraph that Britain was the most welcoming country in
Europe for Muslims.

Farooq Murad pointed to the spread of mosques and sharia, or Islamic law, as
positive signs of the greater freedom Muslims are given in this country.

He warned that any moves to restrict the expression of Islam by banning the veil
or blocking the building of minarets would alienate the Muslim community and
threaten social cohesion.

Mr Murad, who last month succeeded Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari as secretary general
of the MCB, said: "Life in Britain is much more welcoming and healthy for
Muslims than in other European countries.

"There's a great British sense of fairness and justice. We can have great pride
in what a tolerant country Britain is, looking at the growth of mosques, and how
nearly more people eat halal meat than don't."

On immigration, Mr Green said the Coalition's aim was to put "steady downwards
pressure" on immigration from outside the EU so that net immigration fell "to
the tens of thousands" by the time of the next election, expected in 2015.

He ruled out an amnesty for illegal immigrants .

"There will not be an amnesty under this government: my Lib Dem colleagues have
accepted that ... just looking around the world that would send a terrible
signal.

"Out there in other countries there has been the view that Britain's borders are
not very well defended and that if you can get into this country it's relatively
easy to operate here, to work illegally and so on. We've got to change that
perception around the world."

Steady pressure on numbers to reduce net immigration substantially over time was
the "best way to restore public confidence", he said.

EDITORIAL COMMENT: PAGE 21

Additional reporting by Jonathan Wynne-Jones

NEWSREVIEW  Nesrine Malik on the burka and the law PAGE 15

MICHAEL NAZIR-ALI: PAGE 2

NEWS REVIEW: PAGE 15

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 18, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Anger mounts over the spiralling cost of Ashton's empire

BYLINE: NICK MEO

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 908 words


THE SPIRALLING costs and confused aims of the European Union's grandiose new
diplomatic corps are under fire in Brussels as preparations are made to launch
it formally in September.

Baroness Ashton of Upholland, the Briton who heads the service, is interviewing
prospective ambassadors and senior officials in a scramble to complete the
appointment of the EU's new top diplomats in time. The European External Affairs
Service (EEAS) is being established under the Lisbon Treaty, and governments
were originally promised it would be "budget neutral", implying no extra cost to
hard-pressed taxpayers.

But a former chief accountant of the European Commission has estimated that it
is likely to cost at least an extra £45million to set up. "While we are dealing
with an economic crisis in Europe, they are asking for budget increases - it is
ridiculous," said Marta Andreasen, now an MEP for the UK Independence Party who
serves on the European Parliament's budget committee.

Yesterday an official admitted that this figure was "in the right ballpark". Mrs
Andreasen said: "The whole of the EU should be more sensitive to the economic
pain that people are going through at the moment. These costs are just throwing
money out of the window to pay for Catherine Ashton's toy."

The birth of the EU's fully-fledged diplomatic service comes as the Foreign
Office draws up plans to cut its costs by up to 40 per cent as part of the
Government's deficitreduction drive. Embassies and consulates in smaller
countries may be closed and their duties passed to the new network of 136 EU
embassies.

The EEAS will control a total budget of about £5.8billion, including the EU's
enormous aid and development budgets and the costs of peacekeeping operations in
places such as Kosovo.

Aides to Lady Ashton argue that the service is an ambitious new "European state
department", with 7,000 staff based around the world, greatly strengthening the
EU's international role. They promise that she will speak for 27 EU foreign
ministers, bringing a fresh approach to trouble spots such as Gaza and
international problems such as Iran. "The Iranians will not speak to the US -
they have got to speak to someone, and Lady Ashton is ideally placed," said one
aide.

Lady Ashton, 54, a Labour peer whose unexpected appointment to the
£270,000-a-year post was backed by Gordon Brown, is seen by critics as too
inexperienced for the high-profile role. However, supporters stress that she
enjoys an excellent relationship with Hillary Clinton, the US Secretary of
State, and insist that she can forge strong relationships with rising powers
such as China and India as well as bring a new emphasis to the EU's "near
abroad" - the Balkans, Near East and Russia. But unhappiness about the
increasing costs of her diplomatic service has added to unease in Brussels about
her new role.

Daniel Guéguen, a French lobbyist and public affairs author who has closely
monitored the EU for 35 years, said: "They are building a huge machine of 7,000
civil servants, with embassies around the world, and it is very costly. But what
are Europe's policies on Israel or Iran? We don't know, it is vague. Catherine
Ashton looks very weak and to me the whole thing looks like a disaster."

Setting up the service has led to furious arguments behind closed doors about
costs. Officials are preparing to do battle this autumn over the proposed EU
budget for 2011, which is almost six per cent higher than this year's £94
billion.

Britain is against the proposed budget increases, part of which would be used to
pay for the new diplomatic service. One commission official said: "With
austerity everywhere, you have to ask why Catherine Ashton is asking for such a
big budget? It's hard to understand why they need so many posts and so many more
people."

The original plan was to incorporate existing commission staff specialising in
foreign affairs and a hotchpotch of trade delegations around the world into the
new service, with no significant cost increases. But since then its ambitions
have grown. The EEAS has requested an extra £7.9 million for salaries and the
final bill remains unclear.

Lady Ashton is holding final interviews for 31 ambassadors and their deputies,
whose names will be announced in the next fortnight. Member states are lobbying
furiously to get their candidates accepted for key posts in countries such as
China, India, Brazil and Japan, as well as into the top administrative jobs.

The French ambassador to the US, Pierre Vimont, is believed to be a front-runner
for the post of secretary general, the service's senior administrator, with a
salary of £179,000 per year.

Next month Lady Ashton will begin identifying 80 ambassadors for second-tier
postings such as Addis Ababa, Geneva and New York. The Brussels headquarters
will house about 500 senior officials and their assistants. Darren Ennis, a
spokesman for Lady Ashton, said: "The High Representative is very much aware of
the current economic climate and pressures that governments and EU citizens are
under. We will be trying to make sure that there are no additional burdens on
the taxpayer of setting up this service."

The European Parliament is also increasing its budget to deal with its extra
responsibilities under the Lisbon Treaty for its 736 MEPs. All are now entitled
to an extra £16,600 annually to recruit researchers - to help them follow the
workings of the EEAS.

Why do they need so many posts and so many more people?

LOAD-DATE: July 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Baroness Ashton is said by some to be too inexperienced for the job

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 17, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

This burka ban does not translate;
Leading Articles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 337 words


IT WAS probably inevitable that the near-unanimous vote in the French National
Assembly for a ban on women wearing full-face veils in public would prompt the
reopening of the burka debate here. It last erupted four years ago, after Jack
Straw disclosed that he asked women to remove their face covering if they came
to his constituency surgery, as he felt uncomfortable talking to people whose
face he could not see. The argument went to and fro, but the fact that, after an
initial outcry, the issue has remained quiescent reflects well on community
relations in Britain.

Recent moves to legislate against the burka in Belgium and now in France,
however, were bound to have reverberations here - which they have duly done,
with a Tory backbencher and Ukip both demanding a similar law here. If we
disregard the irony that it is from Euro-sceptic quarters that pressure for a
common burka ban is coming, we can be content that, so far, the calls remain
confined to quite rarefied recesses of British politics.

There can be little doubt, though, that they could soon rise to a clamour if
there were the slightest hint of official sympathy. We hope there will not be.
While the full-face veil, and the subordination it denotes, runs counter to much
we prize, religious and cultural tolerance is a hallmark of this country and
must remain so. Within the realm of decency, people should not be instructed how
to dress. The idea of police imposing on-the-spot fines for burka-wearing is
repugnant, but it could also lead to more women being, in effect, imprisoned in
their homes. This is not a solution.

It is regrettable that there are people living in this country who persist in
this display of otherness. And there are circumstances where the burka can have
no place. Women who have claimed the right to wear full-face veils while
practising as lawyers or teachers have lost their cases; a bar was, rightly,
set. For the rest, social pressure will have to suffice - exerted by the
majority for whom face and self-worth are one.

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 15, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

GPs do not have the time or expertise to be in charge of allocating NHS funds

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 452 words


SIR - Andrew Lansley, the Health Secretary, has presented his plans for the £100
billion NHS (Letters, July 14).

First, redundancies will be paid to management personnel, who will then be
re-employed by consortiums created to commission services on behalf of GPs,
since if GPs had sufficient spare time to carry out commissioning themselves,
questions should be asked about their workload.

Then control of approximately 10 per cent of our gross domestic product will be
handed to GPs, who are non-NHS employees and are, in effect, selfemployed
business people. Responsibility for deciding on matters such as secondary care
(specialist) provision will be devolved to doctors with the least exposure to
secondary care during their training. If specialists dictated how GPs should run
their businesses, one would hear howls of anger from GPs.

W. J. Cunliffe FRCS Bedlington, Northumberland SIR - The biggest change I have
seen in my 40-year NHS career has been the replacement of a modest-sized cadre
of administrators, there to put into effect the advice offered by professional
staff, with a bloated swath of "managers", given authority to tell the
professionals what to do. Most NHS clinical staff will welcome the dismantling
of this arrangement.

However, professionals too can subvert workplace structures to their own
advantage, so Nick Seddon's proposal (Comment, July 13) to ally their clinical
expertise with outside organisations such as insurance companies and others,
answering primarily to patients, offers a sound way to corral the self-interest
of both clinical and administrative groups.

But care will be necessary to ensure that one or other grouping does not gain
such dominance as to allow subversion of the process to its own benefit at the
expense of the public.

James Bristol FRCS Cheltenham, Gloucestershire SIR - I would like to
congratulate the Coalition for bringing a whiff of privatisation into the
beleaguered NHS. The fact that successive governments have undertaken what they
call "substantial" changes to the NHS tells us that there is something
fundamentally wrong with how we treat the ill in our country.

The NHS is one of the biggest employers in the world, but as with all state
monopolies, it is costly, inefficient and stuffed with bureaucrats. In Labour's
NHS, for every nurse there is a manager, and vital workers, such as midwives,
are falling in numbers. The problem, however, goes far deeper.

The NHS stifles competition, and as competition drives quality and choice,
innovation and improvement are restricted. The longer the NHS is the "sacred
cow" of politics, the longer the British people will suffer with a secondrate
health service.

Paul Nuttall MEP (Ukip) Bootle, Lancashire

LOAD-DATE: July 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday

LEFT AND RIGHT UNITE AS FRANCE VOTES TO BAN THE BURKA

BYLINE: FROM PETER ALLEN IN PARIS

LENGTH: 448 words


FRENCH MPs voted overwhelmingly yesterday to ban women from wearing burkas.

Politicians from across the spectrum united in opposition to Islamic veils that
cover a woman's face, which some described as 'walking coffins'.

Deputies in the country's 557-seat lower house, the National Assembly, voted in
favour of the ban

335 votes to one.

Far-Left groups such as the Communists joined president Nicolas Sarkozy's ruling
UMP party in voting for it, although Socialists and Greens abstained.

Communist MP Andre Gerin said yesterday: 'Talking about liberty to defend the
wearing of the full veil is totally cynical Z for me, the full veil is a walking
coffin, a muzzle.' The result follows months of heated debate during which
immigration minister Eric Besson also described the burka as a 'walking coffin',
while prime minister Francois Fillon accused wearers of 'hijacking Islam' and
displaying a 'dark sectarian image'.

Recent polls suggested that more than 80 per cent of French people wanted the
burka banned, including some of the country's five million Muslims.

Under the terms of the bill, anyone caught wearing a burka, which covers the
entire face and body with just a mesh screen for the eyes, or a niqab, which has
a slit for the wearers' eyes, will face a 6117 fine.

Men caught forcing a woman to wear a burka or a niqab will face a year in prison
or a 625,000 fine.

The garments are seen as undermining women's rights and a threat to France's
secular status.

The proposed legislation, which is colloquially referred to as the 'anti-burka
law', is officially called 'the bill to forbid concealing one's face in public'.

The draft bill backed

Mr Sarkozy's government will now pass to the Senate upper house where it could
be ratified in September to become law.

But it could be shot down

the European Court of Human Rights and France's constitutional watchdog, the
Council of State, which has warned that the bill may be illegal because it does
not allow freedom of expression.

This would be a humiliation for Mr Sarkozy, whose government has devoted much
attention to a bill that only affects around 2,000 women in France. It could
also dampen efforts in other European countries to outlaw veils.

Belgium and Spain have begun the initial stages of burka bans, while support for
one in Britain has come from Tory backbencher Philip Hollobone and the UK
Independence Party.

The main body representing French Muslims fears the ban will stigmatise the
religion, which it says does not require women to cover their faces anyway.

A French tycoon is setting up a fund to help Muslim women pay 'burka fines'.

Muslim businessman Rachid Nekkaz has pledged to sell property worth 1million
euros to finance the fund.

LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Romanians fight for jobs

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 155 words


MorE than 50,000 romanians applied for jobs in Britain in the first six months
of this year, figures showed yesterday.

they reveal that the UK is the second most popular destination after Germany for
romanians seeking to work abroad.

a study by romanian recruitment website tjobs.ro found that, between January and
June, 51,000 of its citizens answered ads for work in Britain, of which 5,000
were successful.

a total of 426,443 romanians applied for jobs abroad, of which 72,000 were
accepted. the figure is expected to rise once romania introduces tough austerity
measures to cut its huge debts.

tens of thousands of romanians came to Britain after their country joined the EU
in 2007 and there are now almost three million romanians living in EU states
other than their own.

UKiP MEP Gerald Batten said: "When our economy is contracting, migrant workers
who are prepared to work for low wages stop British workers from getting jobs."

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FRANCE VOTES TO BAN BURKHA;
Pressure mounts for Britain to follow suit Burkha is 'symbol of divided Britain'

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,9

LENGTH: 623 words


DEMANDS to ban the burkha in Britain were growing last night after France voted
to outlaw the wearing of Islamic full-face veils in public.

The Government was urged to follow Paris's example and stand up against the face
and body coverings which have been condemned for creating a divided Britain.

In France, where the burkha has been described as a "walking coffin", the new
law means women will be fined or jailed for hiding their faces in public.

And men who force their wives to wear a full Islamic veil will face tougher
fines and up to a year behind bars.

Spain and the Netherlands are considering similar legislation and there are
calls for Britain to follow suit as the veils becoming an increasingly common
sight on our streets.

Tory MP Philip Hollobone, who has launched a Private Member's Bill to ban
"facial coverings", said: "It is unnatural for someone to cover their face and
it not a religious requirement.

"We are never going to have a fully integrated society if an increasing
proportion of the population cover their faces." The UK Independence Party is
also calling for a ban, describing the burkha as a symbol of "divided Britain".

UKIP leader Lord Pearson said: "The French ban not only makes sense but finds
legitimacy in the Koran, which only calls for women to dress modestly. Instead,
it has become the symbol of the more radical forms of Islam."

France has already banned religious clothing such as Muslim headscarves, Jewish
skull caps and Christian crosses from schools.

And yesterday it become the second country in Europe to introduce a ban on
burkhas in public after Belgium voted earlier this year to outlaw Muslim
headscarves that hide the face.

French President Nicolas Sarkozy condemned full-face veils as a "sign of
debasement" and during the debate over the law Andre Gerin, of the Communist
opposition, called the burkha a "walking coffin".

Under the French law women who hide behind veils face initial fines of £140 but
repeat offenders will be jailed. And men who force their wives or other family
members to cover up could be fined up to £28,000 and jailed for 12 months.

The law will also apply to foreigners, including the thousands of wealthy Middle
Eastern tourists who visit the country every year.

But penalties will not be imposed until the law has been in operation for six
months, to allow burkha wearers to adapt to the ban.

The majority of France's five million-strong Muslim population support the ban,
with only 5,000 Muslim women in the country believed to wear the burkha.
However, Muslim millionaire Rachid Nekkaz is setting up a fund to help
fundamentalist women pay their "burkha fines". The Paris property tycoon, who
made a bid for the presidency in 2007, condemned the ban as unconstitutional.

A ban on burkhas is supported by 99 per cent of Britons, a Daily Express poll
found last month.

And last night the French ban was welcomed in one of Britain's most
multicultural cities, Birmingham. Teaching assistant Diana Phillips, 42, said:
"I see it as a good thing because it is important to have eye contact with
people. The government in France is not anti-Muslim."

Phil Bathurst added: "A ban over here would benefit everyone. Burkhas create a
barrier between people."

The French ban, passed by 335 votes to one, is due to become law next spring.
But it faces threats from the Council of Europe on human rights grounds, which
could lead to costly legal battles.

And terror group Al Qaeda has vowed to "seek dreadful revenge on France" if the
ban is introduced.

Is it time for Britain to ban the burkha?

Yes: 0901 030 8342

No: 0901 030 8343

Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: July 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            July 14, 2010 Wednesday

Monckton's response to John Abraham is magnificently bonkers

BYLINE: George Monbiotguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1033 words

ABSTRACT

George Monbiot: Monckton fails to provide a convincing refutation of Abraham's
criticisms but does throw a great deal of dust into the air

FULL TEXT

Say what you like about Viscount Monckton, he never fails to entertain.  to the
devastating critique of his claims about climate change by the physicist John
Abraham is magnificently bonkers.

To give you a flavour of Monckton's reasoning, here are some examples of what he
cites as evidence of Abraham acting out of malice:

· Abraham pointed out that Monckton "has not written a single peer-reviewed
science paper on any topic";

· Abraham stated that Lord Monckton "presented a lot of data with no citations
or no explanation";

· He pointed out that "if you don't tell us where it's from we can't assess the
data";

· He explained that a graph displayed by Lord Monckton was "almost off by 100%".

These are all straight statements of fact. It is impossible to see how they
could be construed as malicious, unless you regard all criticism of your views
and credentials as illegitimate.

Throughout these 99 pages, Monckton ducks, dives and, : Monckton asks almost 500
of them. As far as I can see, he fails to provide a straight or convincing
refutation of any of Abraham's criticisms, and succeeds only in throwing a great
deal of dust into the air.

All this is accompanied, like so many of Monckton's responses, with a demand for
money (in this case $110,000 to be paid to a charity of Monckton's choice), an
apology and retraction and an insistence that Abraham's critique be removed from
all public places.

Reading these ravings, I'm struck by two thoughts. The first is how frequently
climate change deniers resort to demands for censorship or threats of litigation
to try to shut down criticism of their views. , , Monckton has done it many
times before. They claim to want a debate, but as soon as it turns against them
they try to stifle it by intimidating their opponents. To me it suggests that
these people can give it out, but they can't take it.

The second thought is as follows: is this the man who was invited to testify
before Congress? Who has become ? Who has been cited all over the internet as
having proved that manmade climate change isn't happening?

One of the characteristics of the foot-soldiers of climate change denial seems
to be their startling inability to spot a wrong 'un. As well as publishing a
long series of falsehoods about climate change, Monckton has  (although you can
); falsely ; falsely claimed to have  (by suggesting to Margaret Thatcher that
the SAS introduce a mild bacillus into the water supply in Port Stanley);
maintained that he has invented a cure for HIV, multiple sclerosis, influenza
and other diseases; and grossly exaggerated . Yet none of this seems to have
discouraged his disciples one jot.

There's a pattern here too. Those who insist that sea levels are not actually
rising, for example, often cite the work of Nils-Axel Morner, who maintains that
his work in the Maldives proves that it's all a false alarm. Our old friend
"knows more about sea levels than anyone else in the world", that he "has been
using every known scientific method to study sea levels all over the globe" and
that his findings demonstrate that "all this talk about the sea rising is
nothing but a colossal scare story."

in just a few locations, which reveal the sum total of zilch about recent
changes in sea level and have not been published in a peer-reviewed journal. But
the interesting thing, which connects this to the Monckton issue, is that Morner
has also made a series of wild claims about other matters. He maintains that he
possesses . He also insists that he has discovered "the Hong Kong of the
[ancient] Greeks" in Sweden. , Morner inflicted  in order to try to prove his
thesis.

Similarly, Peter Taylor's claims that the planet is in fact cooling down have
been given  and other outlets, though they are unfounded in science. His book
Chill has been a hit in the denier community. Taylor has also claimed to have
uncovered toxic dumping by venturing into the astral realms. He has speculated
that a Masonic conspiracy was tuning into his thoughts, and had sent a "kook, a
ninja freak, some throwback from past lives" to kill him. He has also maintained
that  borne of Plutonic dimension, a preparation for rebirth, an awakener to
higher consciousness".

As these examples suggest, those who lead the movement which claims that manmade
climate change isn't happening often seem to entertain a number of other
irrational beliefs.

In May, , who has studied HIV denialist groups. He found that the leaders of
these groups "display all the features of paranoid personality disorder".

These features include an intolerance of criticism and an inflated sense of
their own importance. They succumb to what psychologists call "suspicious
thinking".

The cognitive style of the denialist represents a warped sense of reality, which
is why arguing with them gets you nowhere ... All people fit the world into
their own sense of reality, but the suspicious person distorts reality with
uncommon rigidity.

I'm no psychologist, but the wide range of crazy beliefs the gurus of climate
change denial entertain suggests that something of the kind that Kalichman
identifies is likely to be at play. The question which bugs me is this: why,
when it seems so obvious that men like Monckton, Morner and Taylor have serious
issues with reality, are so many people prepared to follow them?


LOAD-DATE: July 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;

UK's £135m bill for Eurocrats' pensions

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 614 words


GRASPING Eurocrats are sitting on a £1billion-a-year pensions pot funded by
British taxpayers, it emerged last night. The UK contributes a staggering
£135million a year to the gold-plated European Union payments, figures showed.

It means the average retired Eurocrat will rake in an annual income of almost
£60,000 - 10 times greater than that earned by many single pensioner households
in the UK - and some are on £102,000 a year.

The data shows grotesque spending by the EU gravy train shows no sign of
stopping, despite many of its member countries suffering crippling financial
crisis.

Unaffordable

Details of the "outrageous" costs come at a time when many retired Britons in
both the public and private sectors face cuts to their pension schemes.

Freedom of Information requests have established that spending in 2010 on
pensions for Brussels officials will be 1,214,092,000 euros (£999,250,211), with
a British contribution of £135,898,028, paid over as part of Britain's annual EU
membership fees.

The average annual pension pocketed by the 17,471 retired Eurocrats benefiting
from the scheme is £57,194, but the highest ranking officials can expect
pensions of over £102,000.

A spokesman for the Open Europe think tank blasted the size of the pensions as
"unaffordable" and called for an immediate reform of the pensions scheme.

"The outrageous cost of EU civil servants' pensions is completely unaffordable.
Governments across Europe are making tough spending choices and workers are
facing unemployment and salary cuts.

"The Brussels bubble can no longer be immune from the harsh measures that we all
have to live with now - and that means reform of the overly generous pay and
pension scheme." Mark Wallace, Campaign Director of the TaxPayers' Alliance,
said: "It is infuriating that British taxpayers are being made to subsidise
these bloated Brussels pensions.

"Eurocrats enjoy pensions so generous that most of the taxpayers who foot the
bill could never dream of having such a luxurious retirement.

"The EU is run by a selfappointed elite who are growing fat at the expense of
the people, and it is time we refused to fund these undeserved perks." The
average retirement age for EU officials was 60 in 2009, falling to 58 for lower
secretarial grades.

The rank hypocrisy of Euro officials is endless.

In Britain, the government is raising the retirement age from 65 to 66 by 2016.

They're demanding others work longer while they retire at 60 A policy paper
published by the European Commission last week suggested even later retirement
ages for ordinary workers under plans to link the state pension to life
expectancy.

Nigel Farage UKIP's European leader Workers could be obliged to press on until
they reach 70 years old.

£1billion Nigel Farage, Ukip's European leader, said: "The rank Will be spent by
the EU on pensions for officials in 2010 hypocrisy of these Euro officials is
endless.

Defended

"They're demanding others work longer while they retire at 60. Commission
officials obviously view ordinary Europeans according to Orwell's Animal Farm
dictum: 'All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others'."

A European Commission spokesman defended the EU pension scheme, which was
reformed five years ago and which will increase the retirement age from 60 to
63.

"In addition, the monthly pension contribution to be paid by each official was
raised from 9.25 per cent of the monthly basic salary to 11.3 per cent today,
higher than in all national civil services," he said.

European courts will rule later in the year on legal action by MEPs to block
cost-cutting measures designed to reduce the need for a taxpayer bail-out of
their controversial second pension scheme.

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 13, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UK's £135m bill for Eurocrats' pensions

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 667 words


GRASPING Eurocrats are sitting on a £1billion-a-year pensions pot funded by
British taxpayers, it emerged last night.

The UK contributes a staggering £135million a year to the gold-plated European
Union payments, figures showed.

It means the average retired Eurocrat will rake in an annual income of almost
£60,000 - 10 times greater than that earned by many single pensioner households
in the UK - and some are on £102,000 a year.

The data shows grotesque spending by the EU gravy train shows no sign of
stopping, despite many of its member countries suffering crippling financial
crisis.

Unaffordable

The average annual income a retired Eurocrat will earn Details of the
"outrageous" costs come at a time when many retired Britons in both the public
and private sectors face cuts to their pension schemes.

Freedom of Information requests have established that spending in 2010 on
pensions for Brussels officials will be 1,214,092,000 euros (£999,250,211), with
a British contribution of £135,898,028, paid over as part of Britain's annual EU
membership fees.

The average annual pension pocketed by the 17,471 retired Eurocrats benefiting
from the scheme is £57,194, but the highest ranking officials can expect
pensions of over £102,000.

A spokesman for the Open Europe think tank blasted the size of the pensions as
"unaffordable" and called for an immediate reform of the pensions scheme.

"The outrageous cost of EU civil servants' pensions is completely
unaffordable.and called for an immediate reform of the pensions scheme.

"The Brussels bubble can no longer be immune from the harsh measures that we all
have to live with now - and that means reform of the overly generous pay and
pension scheme." Mark Wallace, Campaign Director of the TaxPayers' Alliance,
said: "It is infuriating that British taxpayers are being made to subsidise
these bloated Brussels pensions.

"Eurocrats enjoy pensions so generous that most of the taxpayers who foot the
bill could never dream of having such a luxurious retirement.

"The EU is run by a selfappointed elite who are growing fat at the expense of
the people, and it is time we refused to fund these undeserved perks." The
average retirement age for EU officials was 60 in 2009, falling to 58 for lower
secretarial grades.

In Britain, the government is raising the retirement age from 65 to 66 by 2016.

A policy paper published by the European Commission last week suggested even
later retirement ages for ordinary workers under plans to link the state pension
to life expectancy.

Workers could be obliged to press on until they reach 70 years old.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's European leader, said: "The rank hypocrisy of these Euro
officials is endless.

Defended

"They're demanding others work longer while they retire at 60. Commission
officials obviously view ordinary Europeans according to Orwell's Animal Farm
dictum: 'All animals are equal but some animals are more equal than others'."

A European Commission spokesman defended the EU pension scheme, which was
reformed five years ago and which will increase the retirement age from 60 to
63.

"In addition, the monthly pension contribution to be paid by each official was
raised from 9.25 per cent of the monthly basic salary to 11.3 per cent today,
higher than in all national civil services," he said.

European courts will rule later in the year on legal action by MEPs to block
cost-cutting measures designed to reduce the need for a taxpayer bail-out of
their controversial second pension scheme.

£1billion

Will be paid by the British taxpayer towards the total pension pot

£135million

The amount some of the highest ranking EU officials will rake in a year in
pensions

£102,000

The amount some ranking EU officials year in pensions

£6,700

The average annual income from state pensions and related benefits in Britain

£60,000

The average annual income a retired Eurocrat will earn

The rank hypocrisy of these Euro officials is endless. They're demanding others
work longer while they retire at 60     Nigel Farage UKIP's European leader

LOAD-DATE: July 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              July 12, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU spends £1 billion eurocrat pensions

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 415 words


THE EU will this year spend almost £1billion on pensions for officials, giving
the average retired eurocrat an income of almost £60,000, according to research
carried out by The Daily Telegraph.

The contribution from cashstrapped British taxpayers to retired European Union
offi-cials will be £135million at a time when many retired Britons in both the
public and private sectors face cuts to their pension schemes.

A British diplomat said: "At a time when governments across Europe have taken
significant actions to reduce the costs of their public sector, including
freezing or even cutting civil service staff salaries, and making commitments to
undertake fundamental reviews of staff pension schemes, pay and pensions in EU
institutions must reflect the very difficult decisions which are being made
right across Europe."

Information requests have established that spending in 2010 on pensions for
Brussels officials will be (EURO)1,214,092,000 (£999,250,211), with a British
contribution of £135,898,028, as part of Britain's annual EU membership fees.

The average annual pension pocketed by the 17,471 retired eurocrats benefiting
from the scheme is £57,194, but the highest ranking officials can expect more
than £102,000.

In contrast, over three-fifths of single pensioner households in Britain have a
total pension income of less than £10,000.

The mean annual private pension income for single British men is £6,812 and for
single women £5,519. Mean annual income from state pensions and related benefits
is £6,911 for single men and £6,700 for single women. The average retirement age
for EU officials was 60, by 2009 figures, falling to 58 for lower secretarial
grades.

In Britain, the government is raising the retirement age from 65 to 66 by 2016.
A policy paper published by the European Commission last week suggested even
later retirement ages - up to 70 years old - for ordinary workers under plans to
link the state pension to life expectancy.

The MEP Nigel Farage, Ukip's European leader, said: "The rank hypocrisy of these
Euro officials is endless. They're demanding others work longer while they
retire at 60."

A European Commission spokesman defended the pension scheme, reformed five years
ago to increase the retirement age from 60 to 63.

"In addition, the monthly pension contribution to be paid by each official was
raised from 9.25 per cent of the monthly basic salary to 11.3 per cent today,
higher than in all national civil services," he said.

Editorial Comment: Page 17

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 July 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

AND A BAD ONE FOR...

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 104 words


Cheryl Cole The X Factor judge (below) may have to vacate her seat on the show
for up to six months, after a bite from a Tanzanian mosquito put her in hospital
with malaria.

Yves Leterme Nigel Farage, the UK Independence Party MEP, attacked the acting
Belgium prime minister, claiming that his country is an "embarrassment" to the
European Union.

Michael Gove The Education Secretary was forced to apologise for releasing a
list setting out which school building projects are to be scrapped, which was
riddled with errors. Several schools that believed their building projects were
safe were later told they will not go ahead.

LOAD-DATE: July 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 11, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UFOs put Euro MP in a flap

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 185 words


AN MEP has launched a mission to make governments reveal all about visits by
extraterrestrials.

Italian Mario Borghezio wants the EU to order member states to be more open on
the subject.

He has laid down a motion in the Strasbourg parliament demanding that the EU set
up a "UFO centre" to study evidence of visits by aliens. So far it has been
signed by 30 MEPs.

Right-winger Mr Borghezio, a close ally of Italy's prime minister Silvio
Berlusconi, said that Western governments were guilty of covering up information
about contact with extraterrestrials.

Mr Borghezio said: "Many members of the scientific community have been looking
into the issue of UFOs and have denounced the systematic covering-up of
information on the subject.

"A study of the material collected by the governments of all the member states
would have major scientific and technological spin-offs."

The declaration needs the support of half of all 736 MEPs to stand any chance of
having force.

Last night Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "Given that most pro-EU MEPs act like
something out of Invasion of the Bodysnatchers, Mario may have a point."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 July 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MEP in UFO file plea

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 109 words


A GROUP of Euro MPs has launched a bold mission to force governments to open up
their secret files on alien life outside Brussels.

Italian MEP Mario Borghezio has laid down an "X-Files" motion demanding a
European UFO Centre.

It has so far been signed by 30 MEPs, although it is not known whether any are
British because the Parliament's chief press officer refused to reveal which
names were on the public register.

Last night, Ukip MEP Gerard Batten said: "I have often thought that the only
explanation for the EU is an alien conspiracy to take over the world.

"Given that most pro-EU MEPs act like something out of The Bodysnatchers, Mario
may have a point."

LOAD-DATE: July 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 July 11, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Loch, stock... Ukip man sells up;
Moving on

BYLINE: Anna Mikhailova

SECTION: HOME;FEATURES; Pg. 2,3

LENGTH: 126 words


Christopher Monckton, a former aide to Margaret Thatcher and now deputy leader
of Ukip, is selling his classically styled home beside Loch Rannoch. Monckton,
58, and his Danish wife, Juliet, bought Carie in 2001 for just £550,000. After
turning a disparate collection of cottages into a substantial home, the couple
are seeking more than £2m for the house, set in 58 acres, with nearly a mile of
loch frontage (0131 222 9600, knightfrank.co.uk). "It is my health that is
forcing us to sell," Monckton - now Viscount Brenchley - tells me. "It has
improved so much that I can return to my life in business and public speaking,
but we are terribly sad to be giving up Carie." The couple hope to buy a "wee
cottage" in Kent or Sussex and a "box" in central London.

LOAD-DATE: July 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Monckton is reluctantly leaving Carie to move south of the border
Mike Wilkinson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 10, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

British MEPs worst for attendance;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 119 words


British MEPs have the worst attendance record in the European Parliament, a
survey found.

The 72 delegates attended 85 per cent of key voting sessions on average in the
past 12 months, the lowest average of the 27 countries.

France's MEPs had an 88 per cent attendance record, while Germany's had 91 per
cent.

Italian MEPs had the third worst attendance record. The data, compiled by the
independent website VoteWatch, is based on average attendance at the 12 annual
"plenary" sessions when MEPs vote on draft European Union legislation.

The British election was responsible for a fall in attendance by UK delegates in
the first half of this year. The three British MEPs with the worst records were
all members of Ukip.

LOAD-DATE: July 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       July 10, 2010 Saturday 9:22 PM GMT

Will Nicolas Sarkozy be brought down by le Guido franais?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 429 words


Tiens! as we Old Brussels Hands say. Eh bien, je jamais.

The latest Sarko scandal is, by French standards, a run-of-the-mill affair:
wealthy heiress, hidden slush fund, illicit donations, envelopes full of cash.
But here's the difference: French people are now able to read about each new
allegation in France. The story has been broken largely by a subscription-only
news website founded by a former editor of Le Monde. The Internet has smashed
the oligopoly hitherto enjoyed by France's dowdy and deferential newspapers.

The sheer servility of the French print media has to be experienced to be
believed. When, for example, it emerged that a former president had set up his
mistress with a seat in the European Parliament, French readers were wholly
dependent on foreign reports. The same was true of many of Franois Mitterand's
peccadilloes, both sexual and political. Not until after he died was his
Vichyite past openly discussed.

When Jacques Chirac pardoned more than a thousand politicians who had been found
guilty of corruption, no French newspaper so much as alluded to the fact that
they had been accused. Indeed, when Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, pointed out
that one of these politicians had been nominated as a European Commissioner, he
was told by the President of the European Parliament to withdraw his remarks or
risk prosecution.

Some foreigners laugh at the feebleness of French journalists. Others admire it.
"Why can't we be as grown-up as the French about these things?" say go-ahead
metropolitan types. But the obsequiousness of French newspapers isn't determined
by their readers' preferences. On the contrary, in few democracies do voters
express such vehement contempt for their elected representatives. No, the reason
that French reporters tend to lay off their politicians is because they have a
symbiotic relationship with the government. They enjoy tax breaks and other
perks, many of their newspapers are related to one or another of the political
parties, and privacy laws are loaded against them.

They therefore frequently find themselves at odds with their readers. When
France voted on the European Constitution five years ago, every newspaper except
the Communist daily called for a Yes vote, leaving the No campaign to les
bloggeurs. Guess who won?

Web-based news outlets are contributing to the decline of print media in the
English-speaking world. In France, where a journalistic cartel has become
reliant on political patronage, their opportunity is commensurately greater.
Truly the Internet is a wonderful phenomenon.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

BRUSSELS FINES US 6150M FOR FAILING TO FLY THE EU FLAG

LENGTH: 235 words


BRUSSELS has fined Britain more than 6150million for failing to display the EU
flag on a string of projects part-funded

Europe.

Several schemes were also penalised for failing to use the flag on their
letterheads.

The fines relate to 63.8billion given to the UK

the European Regional Development Fund over a seven-year period.

The fund has contributed to dozens of projects including the Eden Project, in
Cornwall, the Millennium Bridge, in Gates-head, and the redevelopment of
Liverpool s King s Dock. Funding from the ERDF usually has to be matched pound
for pound

Government cash.

Britain is a net contributor to the EU budget and critics have long complained
that ERDF funding is essentially recycled taxpayers money. This year the UK will
contribute 66.4billion more to Brussels than it receives back.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage called the fines an outrage . He said:
The ERDF is using British taxpayers money to tell us what a great job the EU is
doing. It is a rotten deal for Britain and in return we have to plaster the
country in horrible blue flags.

Communities Secretary Eric Pickles condemned the over-bureaucratic rules
surrounding ERDF money. He said he would be pressing the European Commission to
cut back on needless bureaucracy .

The ERDF lays down strict rules on the display of the EU flag. Any project
accepting cash has to display the flag on a permanent plaque in a prominent
position.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Farage calls Belgium an embarrassment to EU

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 306 words


NIGEL FARAGE, the UK Independence Party MEP, has unleashed another outspoken
attack on Belgium, claiming the country is an "embarrassment" to the European
Union.

In his first speech since returning to work after a serious plane crash in which
he suffered multiple rib and spinal injuries, Mr Farage said the country "lacks
the legitimacy" to take over the EU's rotating presidency.

Belgium took over the presidency at the start of this month despite still being
without a government after a general election on June 13.

During a European Parliament debate yesterday, Mr Farage attacked Yves Leterme,
the acting Belgian prime minister, telling him: "You stand there as a good
Belgian but a few months ago you admitted you didn't even know the national
anthem of your own country.

"In 2006, you admitted it was only beer and football that held Belgium together.

"How can you have a presidency without a government? It is farcical. The sheer
hypocrisy of it all is beyond satire."

In 2007, it took 192 days to form a temporary Belgian government. Since those
elections, Mr Leterme has held the post twice and offered to resign three times.

Mr Farage said: "Belgium is an artificial construction as a nation, and a
prototype for the equally artificial nation of the EU. We now have an EU
president who has no electoral mandate, and, worse, no country to lead as
Belgium begins to disintegrate into its constituent parts."

A spokesman for Belgium's Permanent Representation to the EU described his
attack as "ridiculous and beneath words". Mr Farage caused outcry in February by
saying that Herman Van Rompuy, the EU president, a Belgian, had the "charisma of
a damp rag" and came from a "noncountry".

Mr Farage will undergo surgery later this year for injuries sustained on the day
of the UK general election when his plane crashed in Northamptonshire.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MEPs jeer Farage for ridiculing Belgium

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 210 words


EURO MP Nigel Farage was facing outrage in Brussels last night after denouncing
Belgium as an "embarrassment" in a blistering attack on EU bureaucracy.

The UK Independence Party MEP was jeered and for ridiculing the Belgian prime
minister during a debate in the European Parliament on Tuesday.

Mr Farage hit out at the takeover by Belgium of the EU presidency just days
after the separatist New Flemish Party - which wants to divide the country into
Dutch and French speaking nations - won Belgium's general election.

Hypocrisy He told acting Belgian premier Yves Leterme: "A few months ago you
admitted you didn't even know the national anthem of your own country. How can
you have a presidency without a government? "The sheer hypocrisy is beyond
satire."

Describing Belgium as an "embarrassment", Mr Farage went on: "Belgium is an
artificial construction as a nation, and a prototype for the equally artificial
nation of the EU."

Yesterday Tory Euro-MP Timothy Kirkhope described the attack as "ridiculous and
beneath words" and "an easy headline".

Mr Farage, who was injured in a light plane crash on election day in May, last
night vowed to continue his attacks.

"We are being told what to do by a non-country. It shows up the whole EU farce
for what it is," he said.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage sparked fury

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

Bank tests are tough enough, says watchdog

BYLINE: Jill Treanor

SECTION: GUARDIAN FINANCIAL PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 605 words


European banking regulators last night tried to demonstrate that their health
checks on the banking sector were severe enough by revealing that they were
assuming a worsening of market conditions during May's sovereign debt crisis.

But while the Committee of European Bank Supervisors (CEBS) named the 91 banks
subjected to stress tests - among them HSBC, Barclays, Lloyds Banking Group and
Royal Bank of Scotland in Britain - it failed to give precise details of the
scenarios used. Banking experts noted that Standard Chartered had been omitted
from the list.

The regulators are testing their banks to check they have enough capital to
withstand a two-year scenario that assumes a three percentage point drop in GDP
for the EU compared with official forecasts. But, while revealing that the
worst-case scenarios were being tailor-made for each country, it provided no
further detail in a move that may frustrate investors seeking more comfort that
the stress tests are severe enough. CEBS described the "sovereign risk shock" as
being a deterioration worse than the one that occurred in May but provided no
specifics on the assumed price of government debt. CEBS pledged that
bank-by-bank results of the tests would be published on 23 July.

As markets remained concerned about whether stress tests on banks were severe
enough, European legislators reached agreement on clamping down on bankers'
bonuses. Sharon Bowles, a Liberal Democrat MEP, said the legislation would
ensure there would be "no more Fred Goodwins", a reference to the former chief
executive of RBS who walked away with a £600,000 pension - later reduced - even
though the bank was bailed out by the taxpayer.

Some MEPs from Ukip and the BNP voted against the new laws which were voted
through the European parliament with 625 in favour, 28 against and 37
abstentions. While Michel Barnier, European financial services commissioner,
heralded the rules as "curbing unsound remuneration practices in banks", it is
not yet clear how they will be implemented in Britain as each country has leeway
over how to adopt them.

The FSA, whose remuneration code currently covers just 27 financial firms, was
last night continuing to review the text of the legislation. The City regulator
has already pledged to consult on the code, introduced last year after pay
practices at banks were exposed during the financial crisis, later this year.

The EU regards its bonus rules as the toughest yet imposed anywhere in the world
as they essentially allow bankers to receive only 20% to 30% of their bonuses in
cash, with the rest paid in shares and deferred for up to five years.

Nicholas Stretch, partner at law firm CMA Cameron McKenna, seized upon the
flexibility granted to national regulators.

"The FSA was already planning to review its remuneration code this summer. The
EU legislation may force its hand, but there is still considerable scope for UK
discretion and we hope the regulator will be level-headed in applying rules in
areas where there is little element of risk and will strip out the politics in
the European legislation," Stretch said.

Vicky Ford MEP, Conservative economic and monetary affairs spokesman, also urged
governments not to impose the rules in a "heavy-handed way".

"These reforms are aimed at bonuses for frontline risk-takers in banks, not at
the graduate trainee or high street branch clerks," Ford said. "These reforms
will bring a culture of responsibility rather than recklessness," she added.

A bleak economic winter, page 25 >=

Captions:

Sharon Bowles, the Liberal Democrat MEP, said there would be 'no more Fred
Goodwins' Photograph: Georges Gobet/AFP

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday

French burqa debate is a smokescreen

BYLINE: Nabila Ramdaniguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 778 words

ABSTRACT

Nabila Ramdani: The Islamic burqa is being used by Sarkozy and his cronies as a
distraction from the real issue of allegations of state corruption

FULL TEXT

You may except the impassioned rhetoric surrounding France's so-called "burqa
ban" to come from the women who actually wear them, but in fact it's mainstream
politicians who are making all the noise. President Nicolas Sarkozy describes
the full Islamic veil as "". Immigration minister Eric Besson calls it a
"walking coffin". Even the usually restrained prime minister François Fillon
accuses wearers of "hijacking Islam" and displaying a "".

This kind of melodramatic language will dominate the debate currently being
carried out in the national assembly in Paris as deputies . The venomous
soundbites will lead TV and radio bulletins, with newspapers and internet sites
competing to come up with equally contentious headlines. The images used to
accompany the scaremongering will be a combination of sinister figures clad in
black; if possible set against the background of the kind of rundown council
estates that blight France's reputation for civic élan.

But why the anger? What's the point of it all? There are only around 2,000 women
in France who actually wear a burqa (the cloak that covers a woman from head to
foot) or a niqab (the more genuinely Islamic veil that conceals a woman's face).
If the bill is passed next week, and then approved by the senate in September,
then all can expect a nominal fine of (EURO)150 if they're caught wearing the
garments. "Re-education" about republican values and civic responsibility is a
more likely sanction.

The fact that husbands or fathers who force women to wear them face a year in
prison and a (EURO)30,000 fine under the terms of the bill will be welcomed by
all who believe in equality of the sexes. But, again, the number currently
complaining about this kind of coercion is all but insignificant.

France's highest court, the council of state, has already suggested the proposed
ban may be unconstitutional, with European human rights lawyers suggesting that
you can no more prevent someone wearing an Islamic veil as, say, a skiing
balaclava, fancy-dress mask, or even a motorbike crash helmet.

To understand why burqa rage is such a common failing of big name politicians,
we need look no further than the , another hot topic which has seen Sarkozy's
government effectively accused of helping the billionaire L'Oréal heiress to
evade tax. This week it was even claimed that Bettencourt made illegal cash
donations to Sarkozy's election campaign in 2007 - claims which the president
vehemently denies.

Against this background, what better way to forget about state corruption than
through an utterly artificial national identity debate, with the dreaded Islamic
veil anchoring it? It was Sarkozy who started one a year ago, as he pretended to
revive Gallic patriotism by getting people talking about what makes them feel
good about being French. Sadly, thousands who took part in badly organised
discussions in town halls and on internet forums chose - like the president - to
concentrate on the negative, and especially veils. It was as early as last year
that Sarkozy helpfully described both the burqa and the niqab as "an affront to
republican values".

Sarkozy and his allies say a ban will reinforce France's secular values, or ,
with an extension of the legislation that saw all religious symbols, including
the Islamic headscarf, banned in state schools in 2004. In reality, it will help
the increasingly unpopular head of state to win votes among supporters of the ,
the overtly racist party that views the very presence of some 5 million Muslims
in France as the greatest of all threats to '"national identity". There is no
doubt that Sarkozy and his cronies place Islamic veils alongside all of the
other deeply negative cliches surrounding Islam, from anti-western
fundamentalists threatening terrorism, to disaffected youths rioting on the
kinds of estates where burqa and niqab wearers invariably live.

As countries such as Belgium and Spain prepare their own  (along with oddballs
in Britain including members of the UK Independence party and, inevitably, a
determined Tory MP), what better way for Sarkozy to try to revive his popularity
than with a bit of disingenuous Muslim-baiting? And how convenient it would be
for the president if a parliamentary debate focusing on the dressing habits of
some of the poorest women in France should take attention away from a growing
scandal involving the richest?

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

MEPs approve tough new curbs on the City's bonus culture

BYLINE: James Moore Deputy Business Editor

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 599 words


europe-wide curbs on bankers' pay were approved by the European Parliament
yesterday as the City of London prepared a charm offensive in a bid to stave off
further regulatory assaults. The new rules, which include capping the cash
proportion of any payment at 30 per cent - 20 per cent for bigger payouts - will
also apply to the likes of hedge fund managers and staff of other financial
companies.

Arlene McCarthy, the MEP responsible for the deal with the European Commission
that has seen the rules passed into law, said they would "transform the bonus
culture and end incentives for excessive risk-taking".

She rounded on criticism of the rules from hedge funds and the City, saying:
"They are designed to align payments with the interests of investors. I would
have thought hedge funds would be keen on doing that, rather than finding ways
round the rules and complaining."

While the Financial Services Authority's own crackdown on bonuses is arguably
even tougher, it applies only to the 27 biggest banks operating in London. The
scope of the European rules is much wider.

Ms McCarthy, who is vice president of the economic and monetary affairs
committee, added: "Financial experts agree that a high-risk, short-term bonus
culture, combined with a lack of capital, were at the heart of the global
financial crisis in 2008. Governments and taxpayers bailed out the banks with
Euro 3.9 trillion of support. In Britain alone ne, the support was £1.2trn -
almost as much as a whole year's GDP. Remuneration policies must first and
foremost prioritise the health and stability of a financial institution."

British MEPs criticised the BNP and the UK Independence Party for opposing the
rules. A Liberal Democrat MEP, Sharon Bowles, said: "Today we voted to ensure
that there will be ... a cap on cash bonuses and measures to make sure that top
bankers take the hit rather than taxpayers. I'm gobsmacked that UKIP and the BNP
don't see fit to support these measures and I wonder what their constituents
would have to say on the matter."

The rules do not limit the size of bonuses. But from next January, senior
bankers will have to defer at least half their bonus for at least three years.
National regulators will be responsible for policing the legislation and have
been given some discretion as long as they justify their policies.

There are also options for firms, such as hedge funds, to pay through other
instruments if they do not, for example, have shares. Many bankers are being
paid in restricted stock in the companies in which they work.

Nick Anstee, the Lord Mayor of London, said the UK and the City needed to build
stronger, more pro-active links in the European Union when it comes to the
policy-making agenda. He said: "That is why we are travelling to Brussels this
week to meet again with [EU Internal Market] Commissioner [Michel] Barnier and
ensure the City's voice on important changes to the regulatory landscape and
their impact on the UK financial services industry is heard.

"This is particularly pressing given recent developments in the EU relating to
remuneration.

Current and future EU proposals such as the new rules on bank bonuses and the
AIFM [Alternative Investment Fund Managers] directive could have a significant
impact on the UK financial services industry and particularly hedge funds and
asset managers, despite their limited role in the global financial crisis."

Mr Anstee said it was "imperative" that European legislators remember the
"contribution" made by the City to the continent's economy.

Rules for bankers to remember

Andreas Whittam-Smith, Viewspaper, page 2

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             July 8, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP MAN DEAD

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 21 words


UKIP politician Michael Keith-Smith, 57, who was thrown out of the Tory party,
has died in a fall at Portchester castle, Hants.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 62 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             July 7, 2010 Wednesday

UNION JACK WAVES THE WHITE FLAG

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1083 words


AT long last, peace has broken out between multi-mil-lionaire Sir U nion Jack
Hayward former owner of Wolverhampton Wanderers FC and lady Henrietta St george,
daughter of the Queen s close friend the Duchess of grafton, widow of Hayward s
late business partner, racehorse-owning Edward t george.

The two have been involved in a bitter row in the Bahamas, with Sir Jack
claiming he owns 75 per cent of the grand Bahama Port Authority, which virtually
runs the island, instead of 50 per cent as lady Henrietta claims. now, after six
years of legal wrangling, Sir Jack, I gather, has backed down and has given up
his claim, which ended up in the Bahamian Court of Appeal, and even involved an
intervention the Bahamas Prime Minister, Hubert Ingraham.

After spending millions of pounds in legal fees, Sir Jack, 87, has finally
admitted: This is all bloody stupid. We ve helped the attorneys to lovely new
homes in lyford Cay [an exclusive area of the Bahamas].

But just as he settles one di spute, Si r Jack has been engaged in another
argument this time with his son, Rick.

According to friends, Rick and his father who was knighted in 1986 for his
charitable works and who enjoys world cruises with his long-time friend Patti
Bloom rather than his wife of 62 years, lady Jean are at loggerheads because Sir
Jack has hugely increased the rent he charges his son at three restaurants he
owns on the island.

Rick owes more than 6330,000 in unpaid rent and says the jobs of some of his 78
employees hang in the balance over the dispute.

He claims his father s grand Bahama Port Authority has more than doubled the
rent over the past five years. last month, the quarrel between father and son
erupted in the Supreme Court in the Bahamian city of Freeport, where it was
ruled that Rick s company had three months to come to an arrangement with a
subsidiary firm of his father s.

Rick, I am told, simply refused to pay the rent after the increases reached
6237,000. last year, Rick s wife, Alex granddaughter of writer Sir Sacheverell
Sitwell inherited hi stori c Reni shaw Hal l and a 2 0 , 0 0 0 - ac r e Der

s hi r e estate, the family seat of her celebrated literary family, following
the death of her father, Sir Reresby Sitwell.

LAST ORDERS AT WILLA S CLUB

IT WAS tipped to be the thinking-Sloane s Anna-bel s, but after barely six
months the nightclub venture of Jardine Matheson heiress Willa Keswick (left)
has been forced to call it a day.

Willa launched her West End club in a blaze of name- droppi ng glory. Suspicious
of modern promotional ploys, she was determined to fill her club the
old-fashioned way. I m going to open my address book and bring in my crowd, the
soci al i te chum of Princes William and Harry declared. Initially, this worked
a charm. The trendy hotspot, designed to look like a country house with chintz
sofas and stuffed animals but a bi t mor e debauched , entertained everybody
from indie band The Kooks to model Amber Le Bon.

I t even hos t ed the celebrity-laden after-party for Tatler magazine s 300th
birthday celebrations.

But yesterday she was reflective about the failed venture. Though I would never
do it again, it taught me the meaning of hard work, she tells me.

TORY S LOVE STORY GOES PUBLIC

JUST because he is no longer treasurer of the Conservatives, doesn t mean
Michael Spencer has stopped backing the party.

And perhaps because his broking business Icap is showing a healthy rise in its
share price up 24p yesterday to 416p there was a smile on his face as he
attended the Tories swish summer party this week.

Then again, his upbeat demean-our might have had more to do with his glamorous
companion, Sarah Milford Haven, 46, ex-wife of the Queen s cousin, the Marquess
of Milford Haven. The pair have been an item for two years, since Spencer, 55,
ended his 25-year marriage to wife Lorraine. But they have been reluctant to
pose publicly for a photo together until now.

The tycoon, a close friend of Prime Minister David Cameron, stood down as Tory
treasurer after the General Election to go back to his 62.5billion business.

He and Sarah were joined the Conservatives other money men including Lord
Ashcroft, Michael Wade and David Ross for the bash in the gardens of the Royal
Hospital, Chelsea.

AS THE champagne and Pimm s flowed at The Spectator s party in london with David
Cameron and nick Clegg among the guests largerthan-life biographer Bruce
Anderson loudly buttonholed Ukip leader lord Pearson, whose party hit the Tories
in key marginals at the Election.

Among the casualties was veteran MP David Heathcoat-Amory, who lost his Somerset
seat after 27 years.

So als f eathcoat-Amory, ncluding his former brother-in-law, film-maker Michael
Cockerell, and author Piers Paul Read, were not amused when Anderson, known as
The Brute, congratulated Pearson on getting the former Wells MP ousted.
Furthermore, the comment re-opened a row between the two men over the hire of
the ex-MP s holiday home in Scotland with Heathcoat-Amory claiming he is still
owed 63,000

Anderson.

Heathcoat-Amory tells me: He is a man who writes at length about how peopl e
shoul d l i ve up to thei r responsibilities, so he should start living up to
his own.

However, Anderson insists: I am a great admirer of David s. He s a great loss.
When I spoke to Malcolm Pearson, I was being ironic.

So what of the alleged debt? It was supposed to have been paid

an American friend of mine. I will have to get on to David immediately.

AMUSED that gordon Ramsay has called his latest book Chef s Secrets, his alleged
former mistress, Sarah Symonds, calls from los Angeles to say that while his
tome is unlikely to contain any reference to their hotel rendezvous, her new
volume certainly will. I am writing a tell-all book about what actually

happened with gordon that night and many nights, she says.

She will also reveal how Jeffrey Archer seduced me with the offer to be on his
Mayoral campaign .

Adds one-time professional mistress Sarah: It s part of moving on to get the
truth out there.

Sounds like a bestseller.

PS

GADGET fan Stephen Fry interrupts a lunch at Searcy s restaurant on the 40th
floor of the Gherkin in the City to demonstrate an app on his iPad that distorts
photos of people to look old, fat or like zombies. He happily demonstrates the
gizmo to fellow diners at the London diarists club lunch, where guests also
included TV presenters Sir Michael Parkinson and Michael Palin. Fry also shows
off his white iPhone, apparently the first one in Europe. Apple makes the best
kit, he says finally.

LOAD-DATE: July 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU move to treble maternity pay flops

BYLINE: CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 121 words


BRITISH MEPs may be on the brink of defeating European proposals to TRIPLE
maternity pay - which would cost cashstrapped UK taxpayers £2billion a year.

An EU vote was due to take place today, but it has now been postponed for the
third time.

UKIP deputy leader David Campbell Bannerman said: "This vote has been put back
at least twice, which is unusual.

"It indicates that it is feared it would not go through as economies cannot
afford it."

The law would give new mums 100 per cent of pay for 20 weeks, up from 90 per
cent for six weeks, followed by £123 for 33 weeks.

There is no cap on the amount women can earn and still benefit from 20 weeks at
100 per cent pay, so high-flying career women would gain most.

The Sun Says - Page 10

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Delay... maternity pay

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

EU mum bid 'to fail'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 89 words


BRITISH MEPs may be on the brink of defeating European proposals to TRIPLE
maternity pay - which would cost cashstrapped UK taxpayers £2billion a year.

An EU vote was due to take place today, but it has now been postponed for the
third time.

UKIP deputy leader David Campbell Bannerman said: "It indicates that it is
feared it would not go through as economies cannot afford it."

The law would give new mums 100 per cent of their pay for 20 weeks, up from 90
per cent for six weeks, followed by £123 for 33 weeks.

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        July 6, 2010 Tuesday 3:28 PM GMT

Why do we put up with such loutish behaviour in sport and in society?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1176 words


I find that I watch less and less sport on television these days. I used to
quite enjoy Wimbledon but somehow this year I found it less attractive.  It was
while watching a match won by Mr Lu, the Taiwanese player,  that I realised why.
Mr Lu did not punch the air, throw himself at the  ground, snarl or scream in
triumph. He was obviously pleased. He  smiled and acknowledged the applause with
a wave. One of the ladies, a  central European, I think Bulgarian, behaved in
the same way. And, mercifully, the mens' finalists gave a pretty good example of
both how to  win and to lose gracefully.

The contrast with the some of  the snarling, screaming, ill-mannered players
could not have been  greater. One hardly needs to comment on the conduct of the
overpaid, underskilled footballers. It seems there is an inverse  relationship
between their pay and their manners, or for that matter  ability to play
football.

I am lost in wonder at the skill  and athleticism of cricketers, batsmen and
bowlers alike. Never have  the standards of fielding been so high. Improbable
catches are taken,  impossible throws at the wicket achieve the most unlikely
run outs.  Then, the whole delight of it all, for this spectator at least,  is
wiped out by aggressive and, I suspect, foul-mouthed behaviour on the  field.

Oddly enough, rugby seems less affected by this  petulant exhibitionism than
gentler sports. Of course the odd punch may  be thrown, but that is more between
the players in the heat of the  moment than part of impressing the spectators or
as a muddleheaded  statement of virility.

I never thought that I would say it,  but the one sport where good manners still
prevail is snooker. Nor is it  just the players. The audience shares their good
manners. Even the  commentators dress appropriately for the time of day.

So why  is loutish, boorish behaviour accepted as normal?  Why, even in the
Spectator, is so much space given to accounts of columnists' drunkenness,
slovenliness or childish behaviour? It is almost, but not quite,  enough to
persuade a man to take the New Statesman.

Who these  days gives an example to whom?  Is it the behaviour of the noble Lord
Prescott which inspires our football failures, or is it the other way around?

I suppose we should be thankful for small mercies.   Prime Minister Cameron's
good manners have certainly improved PM's question time. Certainly too, I
encounter plenty of decent  conduct, kindness and good manners every day amongst
the people I  encounter on the street, but there are just too many appalling
examples  being given by prominent people in all walks of life.

All too  often, it seems to me, we treat children as though they were adults and
we see adults behaving like overgrown children deserving a good slap  across the
knees. If society is not broken, it seems pretty  badly bent. I suspect that as
neither team games, nor the history of  the society in which we live are taught
in most schools, we are  suffering a collective loss of the sense of mutual
obligations and  shared memories which have influenced our behaviour.

We no longer seem  to have as strong a loyalty to our tribe or even our
families. When I read the obituaries of the last of those who fought in the
Second World War I am often struck by a final paragraph referring to a marriage
undertaken well over half a century ago which lasted "until death did  them
part". These days, as Mr Huhne, The Energy  Secretary, has recently reminded us,
it seems until the prints is dry  on the election address is long enough.

Perhaps society  is suffering from a kind of  dementia in which a loss of memory
and  therefore, identity and an increase of insecurity lead to greater
aggression. There is more to be done to improve the state of  the country than
changing the voting system.

There were several interesting debates on this site over the last  few days. I
even found Duckham's post on Islam and Indonesia worth  reading. It is not a
country I know very much about so I am not in any  position to judge if he is
right or not. On the proposed  change in the voting system, I think quietzapple
was about right to say  that the effect of AV is uncertain, but all the parties
are looking at  whether it will serve their self interest.

Fatmiddleagedguy might be right. AV could destroy the Lib Dems. That  may depend
on whether UKIP voters put the Tories as their second  choice and vice versa, or
the Lib Dems and Tories do so. And what will  Labour voters do? Will their
second preference be for the Lib Dems or UKIP, or the BNP? David Page was
interesting on AV in New  Zealand, but I thought in his suggestion for the
election for the new  Second House he did not explain how we would keep the
cross benchers.

As for the realignment of parties, I notice that Paddy Ashdown has  been talking
about this. Junius I found intemperate. I do not  criticise Cameron out of
malice, but because I differ about his  politics. As adextra said (and I'm
grateful to him) I am  loyal to my Party, which as davidaslindsay said is itself
a coalition. Bersher wondered if a merger is possible. Well, it has happened
before, but that is not to say it will again in the near future, but it  could
do. After all, one argument for taking the Lib Dems into a  coalition was that
it would split and destroy them.

As to  the Bill which Clegg announced today, I know no better than RossBrooks
if it will get through. If so as summermir suggested it will be a  triumph for
Clegg. He will have got his referndumn of AV and vetoed the  Tory promise of the
repeal of the Human Rights Act and a new UK Bill of  Rights. As for Clegg
walking out of the Government, ooopiop  thinks that unlikely. Perhaps so, but
Simon Hughes might drag him out.

There were some good exchanges on the concept  of rights with bersher,
pogleswoodsman, rastech and others. In  my book there is a big difference
between "rights"  and "entitlements".  In general the state cannot give rights,
they are "God given".  One is  born with them. They are inalienable.
Entitlements require someone to  pay their cost.

I ought to remind darkseid that although I  take the Conservative whip in the
Lords, I do not take too much notice  of it. I make up my own mind, as do very
many of my colleagues on all  sides of the House. Nor should quietzapple think I
have ever concealed  my time as an elected officer of BALPA. He should read my
memoirs. He  made a poor argument all the weaker by  ill-informed abuse.

I  enjoyed bionic raspberry's account of dinner with members of the  European
political class. It rang true and chimed with my own  experience of similar
evenings. I shall have to come back to  Europe shortly. In the meantime I'll end
by thanking those like simon-coulter who was so supportive and tell pragmatist
that sadly I  no longer hold a pilot's licence. I will be eighty next year and
long  since decided that I was too old to fly. Mind you, I still sometimes  look
up and dream of being in a single seat fighter again. But there is a  time for
all things... And that time has gone.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Clegg gambles on early AV referendum;
Constitutional moves sow seeds of discontent

BYLINE: Roland Watson; Francis Elliott; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 984 words


Britain will go to the polls in May after David Cameron and Nick Clegg gambled
the strength of the coalition on an early referendum on voting reform.

A plebiscite on whether to adopt the alternative vote (AV) system in place of
the first-past-the-post method forms the centrepiece of a constitutional
shake-up that would impose five-year, fixed-term Parliaments.

Fifty MPs would lose their seats under a fast-track boundary review designed to
cut their number from 650 to 600 and equalise constituency sizes.

The power to dissolve Parliament early will shift to MPs, who will require a
two-thirds majority in a Commons vote to force an election.

The move was combined with the coalition's first major U-turn, when Mr Clegg
abandoned the 55 per cent Commons "super-majority" that he previously demanded
to dissolve Parliament after the loss of a no-confidence motion. Instead, an
election would be held automatically if no leader could form a government within
14 days.

But the Deputy Prime Minister's proposals were criticised on all sides of the
Commons and risk sowing seeds of discontent, especially among Tory backbench
MPs. The flashpoints include: the date of the AV referendum: Tory opponents say
that going to the polls on the same day next year as Scottish and Welsh
elections will skew turnout in favour of change; cutting the number of MPs:
Conservative officials are concerned that the process will pit Tory against Tory
as MPs try to claim the new seats as their own. Labour denounced the change as
pro-Conservative gerrymandering; the new dissolution rules: Labour and Tories
questioned the need for new rules that, in effect, would give a prime minister
who had lost a vote of no confidence two weeks to try to stay in power.

The proposed changes mean that both coalition partners have succeeded in getting
the constitutional reforms most important to them into a Bill - AV for the Lib
Dems and a boundary review for the Tories, which is expected to benefit them.

Senior Tories around Mr Cameron see it as being in the Government's interest for
the referendum to succeed, believing that failure would remove Mr Clegg's main
justification with his party for joining forces with the Tories.

As well as Mr Cameron and William Hague taking a back seat in the referendum
campaign, other Tory Cabinet ministers will be encouraged to concentrate on
their departments rather than campaigning for a "no" vote.

Mr Clegg said that the changes were critical to cleaning up politics and that
MPs had a "unique duty to restore trust in our political system that has been
tested to its limits". He said that holding the referendum on the same day as
local elections would save £17 million compared with holding it on a different
date, and that cutting the number of MPs would save £12 million a year.

Jack Straw, the Shadow Justice Secretary, said that the two-thirds requirement
to dissolve Parliament was "completely superfluous" because either a government
enjoyed the confidence of the House or it did not.

Vernon Bogdanor, Professor of Government at the University of Oxford, said that
a majority government could still cut and run early by ordering its MPs to vote
for dissolution, citing the German examples of Willy Brandt in 1972 and Helmut
Kohl in 1983.

Q&A

So has Nick Clegg finally got something back?

Yes, but David Cameron wants his junior partner to be seen to have won a victory
- any other date than May 5, 2011, would have meant a damaging blow to the
Deputy PM

So he will lead the charge to win the voting system he has always wanted?

Mr Clegg wants to be the face of the "yes" campaign but others are not so sure
they want a politician fronting the case for AV

Will Mr Cameron defend first-past-the-post?

Not exactly. If AV is rejected it will be harder to keep the coalition together
and the Tory leader thinks his party could do well under AV

Why does he think that?

A fast-track boundary review to equalise the size of constituencies will favour
the Tories enough to compensate for losses, sources claim

Does the number of MPs still get reduced if the public says no to AV?

Yes, it would So will this get through the Commons?

That depends on Labour. The party has the most to win from a "no" vote. The
boundary review gives Labour cover to make common cause with the Tory Right, who
suspect Mr Cameron of selling their party's interests short

Alternative voting

Under AV, voters rank some (or all) candidates on the ballot in order of
preference. If a candidate gets above 50 per cent of all first preference votes
he or she is elected

If no one wins a majority on the first count, the last-placed candidate is
eliminated and second preference votes are allocated to the survivors

If there is still no winner, the process is repeated and re-repeated until a
victor is identified

In the last tally a candidate who originally topped the vote can fall to second
or third in the final calculations

Alternative voting is not proportional representation but does tend to give
smaller political parties an electoral boost. Also known as instant-runoff
voting (IRV), ranked choice voting (RCV) or preferential voting

Example: based on a notional constituency with 50,000 voters, which voted in
line with results from the general election but where alternative preferences
were cast, and cast evenly across other parties

Conservative Green Labour LiberalDemocrats UKIP Number the boxes from 1 to 5 in
order of your choice BALLOT PAPER

Conservative Party Votes 18,000 (36%) Labour 14,500 (29%) Liberal 11,500 (23%)
Others 6,000 (12%) 6,000 (12 6 hers her , 0 s 00 0 Conservative Party Votes
20,000 (40%) Labour 16,500 (33%) Liberal 13,500 (27%) 13,500 (2 beral a r bera
13 500 5 Round 1 Round 2 Conservative Party Votes 26,750 (53.5%) Labour 23,250
(46.5%) Winner! Round 3 What the results would have been last time ... C 281 (26
fewer seats) Labour 262 (+4) Lib Dems 79 (+22) Others 29 (-) Source: Electoral
Reform Society

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 6, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Scots protest over Clegg's AV gamble;
Plan could disrupt next two Holyrood elections

BYLINE: Angus Macleod; Roland Watson

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 975 words


Britain will go to the polls in May after David Cameron and Nick Clegg gambled
the strength of the coalition on an early referendum on voting reform.

The move could see the next two Holyrood elections almost completely
overshadowed after the coalition Government announced yesterday it is to go
ahead with holding both the referendum on electoral reform and the next general
election on the same day as MSPs are elected.

The plebiscite on whether to adopt the alternative vote (AV) system in place of
the first-past-the-post method forms the centrepiece of a constitutional
shake-up that would impose fiveyear, fixed-term UK Parliaments. Fifty MPs would
lose their seats under a fast-track boundary review designed to cut their number
from 650 to 600 and equalise constituency sizes.

The power to dissolve Parliament early will shift to MPs, who will require a
two-thirds majority in a Commons vote to force an election.

The announcement in the Commons by Nick Clegg, the Deputy Prime Minister,
provoked deep anger at Holyrood and sparked a joint letter of protest to the
Prime Minister from the UK's three devolved governments in Edinburgh, Belfast
and Cardiff.

Scotland, Northern Ireland and Wales will be asked to vote "Yes" or "No" to the
introduction of the AV system for electing MPs on the same day - May 5 next year
- as they are choosing their new devolved representatives.

In addition, the decision to hold the next general election on May 7, 2015,
means that voters in the devolved nations will be expected to elect both their
MPs and their devolved parliament or assembly representatives on the same day.

If the AV system is backed for Westminster, it will mean that in 2015 Scottish
voters will be faced with three different forms of voting system - AV for the
Commons and both first-past-thepost and AV-plus for Holyrood. The use of three
dissimilar voting systems for elections was established by an official inquiry
as one of the main causes of the chaos which affected the Scottish elections in
2007 when the same three voting systems were also employed for Parliamentary and
council ballots, leading to more than 40,000 spoiled ballot papers and a
decision by the Scottish Parliament to "decouple" these elections and move the
council poll to 2012.

In Edinburgh last night, Mr Cameron and Mr Clegg were roundly condemned.

A spokesman for Mr Salmond accused the Westminster coalition of now "running a
disrespect agenda".

In the Commons, Mr Clegg justified the decision by saying it could save £17
million. He added: "People will easily be able to distinguish between the
different issues."

Mr Clegg attempted to placate Scots by announcing that the Western Isles (Na
H-Eileanan An Iar) and Orkney & Shetland are to be excluded from the Boundary
Commission's review of constituencies intended to equalise the number of voters
to around 70,000 in each UK constituency. Mr Clegg said this was because these
two constituencies were "uniquely placed given their locations". The Western
Isles has 21,780 voters while Orkney & Shetland has 33,048.

Nicola Sturgeon, Scotland's Deputy First Minister, said: "This completely
contradicts the coalition Government's promise to pursue a 'respect agenda'."

Q&A

So has Nick Clegg finally got something back?

Yes, but David Cameron wants his junior partner to be seen to have won a victory
- any other date than May 5, 2011, would have meant a damaging blow to the
Deputy PM So he will lead the charge to win the voting system he has always
wanted?

Mr Clegg wants to be the face of the "yes" campaign but others are not so sure
they want a politician fronting the case for AV Will Mr Cameron defend
first-past-the-post?

Not exactly. If AV is rejected it will be harder to keep the coalition together
and the Tory leader thinks his party could do well under AV Why does he think
that?

A fast-track boundary review to equalise the size of constituencies will favour
the Tories enough to compensate for losses, sources claim Does the number of MPs
still get reduced if the public says no to AV?

Yes, it would So will this get through the Commons?

That depends on Labour. The party has the most to win from a "no" vote. The
boundary review gives Labour cover to make common cause with the Tory Right, who
suspect Mr Cameron of selling their party's interests short

Alternative voting

Under AV, voters rank some (or all) candidates on the ballot in order of
preference. If a candidate gets above 50 per cent of all first preference votes
he or she is elected

If no one wins a majority on the first count, the last-placed candidate is
eliminated and second preference votes are allocated to the survivors

If there is still no winner, the process is repeated and re-repeated until a
victor is identified

In the last tally a candidate who originally topped the vote can fall to second
or third in the final calculations

Alternative voting is not proportional representation but does tend to give
smaller political parties an electoral boost. Also known as instant-runoff
voting (IRV), ranked choice voting (RCV) or preferential voting

Example: based on a notional constituency with 50,000 voters, which voted in
line with results from the general election but where alternative preferences
were cast, and cast evenly across other parties

Source: Electoral Reform Society

Round 1 Round 2 Conservative Conservative Party Votes 18,000 (36%) Labour 14,500
(29%) Liberal 11,500 (23%) Others 6,000 (12%) 6,000 (12 6 hers her , 0 s 00 0
Party Votes 20,000 (40%) Labour 16,500 (33%) Liberal 13,500 (27%) 13,500 (2
beral a r bera 13 500 5 Round 3 What the results would have been last time ...
Party Votes 26,750 (53.5%) Labour 23,250 (46.5%) Conservative Labour 262 (+4)
Winner! C 281 (26 fewer seats) Lib Dems 79 (+22) Others 29 (-)

Conservative Green Labour LiberalDemocrats UKIP Number the boxes from 1 to 5 in
order of your choice BALLOT PAPER

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              July 5, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

'WE NEED REFORM. TOO BAD IF IT DISTURBS PEOPLE'S LUNCH';
The Monday Interview A year on from his appointment as Speaker, John Bercow
tells Steve Richards why he is determined to change the culture of the House -
starting with Prime Minister's Questions

BYLINE: Steve Richards

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1915 words


John Bercow sits on a sofa in a large office overlooking the River Thames and
dares to wonder whether, finally, he is secure in his role as Speaker. In the
immediate aftermath of the general election the three party leaders were not the
only senior political figures agonising over their fate. Bercow also was not
sure what would happen next, fearing an attempt to remove him when the new
parliament convened. At that point he had been Speaker for less than a year.

Instead he was re-elected unchallenged and as his first anniversary passes feels
emboldened to take on his critics and press ahead with further reforms. By
tradition Speakers do not speak out very much in public, but over a sandwich
lunch at Westminster Bercow shows that this is one of several traditions he is
happy to challenge. As well as attacking his critics, he defends his wife's
right to be an active Labour supporter and highlights the reforms that have
marked his first year.

Tomorrow he will make a speech arguing that Prime Minister's Question Time much
change. "This is the most viewed of all the parliamentary events. Changing it
would make the biggest impact, but while a lot else has changed this has not. It
is far too noisy and needs to be conducted in a more civilised manner...
Journalists love the cut and thrust, but the public detest it. We must not
mistake media enthusiasm for a massive bust up with the views of the great mass
of the public who don't like it".

Bercow has been doing some research and discovered that the era of what he calls
"organised barracking" began in the 1970s because of the mutual loathing felt by
Harold Wilson and Ted Heath. He wants it to stop and also wants the session to
be less dominated by the clash between the two main leaders. "Six questions are
too much for the Leader of the Opposition. They end up taking a large number of
minutes, say ten minutes out of 30, that is a third of the time gone".

Bercow was elected Speaker a year ago in the midst of the expenses saga and
describes the disclosures published in the Daily Telegraph as a "mercy killing,
a disaster waiting to happen. We had failed to make the transition from private
club to public institution. ...The new system had to be characterised by equity,
transparency, audit and accountability. Some of my colleagues say the system
fails in relation to equity, that it is too stiff and unyielding. Even so in my
view the gains outweigh the losses. The idea that we can revert to a system run
by the House is for the birds".

Nonetheless Bercow backs MPs over some of their concerns. "There's a strong
argument for saying where there are working expenses of a sizeable kind they
should be met up front. MPs are unhappy for example that they have to pay rent
up front for their constituency offices...These are reasonable concerns and I
have made the regulator aware of this. The new system needs bedding down, but I
far prefer the present situation".

He prefers it to such an extent that Bercow senses the saga is close to an end.
In making the point he launches the first of two attacks on the Daily Telegraph,
evidently a newspaper of which he is not fond. "If there is a newspaper which
has defined itself by MPs' expenses, massively increasing its sales, using it as
its USP, if it thinks it's going on for several parliaments to come then it's
guilty of delusion on an industrial scale."

Bercow was elected as Speaker on a reformer's manifesto. He highlights changes
that followed his election, ones that he argues make the government more
accountable to the Commons and take Parliament closer to modern Britain. "I
think the most significant change is the resurrection of the Urgent Question as
a means of holding the government to account. This is when a minister is called
to the despatch box at the request of a member. The Speaker decides whether the
request is granted. A year before my election there were two occasions when the
request was granted. I have accepted 25.... It's a nuisance for ministers,
disturbing a good lunch perhaps, but that's too bad. Their first duty is to the
House. Ministers are likely to be a bit more careful from now on. If they don't
offer statements they know they will be dragged to the House".

He cites faster progress on questions in the House and the election for deputy
speakers as other important procedural reforms. His other internal changes
appear to give him as much satisfaction: "Civil partnership ceremonies can take
place in the House for the first time. Chris Bryant [the Labour MP] had a civil
partnership here. We agreed to establish a nursery with good support from
Harriet Harman, who was Leader of the House at the time. We've just appointed
the first female chaplain who happens also to be a black chaplain." At which
point he pauses before returning to a newspaper. "The Daily Telegraph called it
a botched appointment."

He notes mischievously: " The Telegraph is all in favour of a female
chaplain..but not in this case. And of course it is all in favour of a black
chaplain.... but not now. And of course they are in an especially strong
position to tell me they are right and I am wrong even though they did not
interview her for the post and I did. In fact she is going to be fantastic".

Bercow also played his part in calling for the Commons to sit in September, as
it will do this year. Now he goes further and opposes the convention in which
the Commons stops sitting for the second half of September as the party
conferences take centre stage. "It is quite wrong for party conferences to be
used as an excuse for the Commons not to sit. Conferences could be held at
weekends. Parliament should sit throughout September".

He is also proud to have hosted the UK Youth Parliament in the Commons, against
the wishes of some MPs. Bercow is a good mimic and impersonates one of his
critics: "One senior mp told me it would be a disaster. He came up to me and
said, 'I have been here 30 years.. at the very least chewing gum will be left
all over the Chamber and at worst pen knives will be used to tear up the
chamber.' I told him they will behave better than most MPs..and they did."

I ask him whether the internal unrest over his election is related to his
reforms or to him as an individual. His path to the post was an unusual one. At
47, he isrelatively young to have given up orthodox political ambition. The son
of a taxi driver in north London, he was active in right-wing politics as a
student and entered parliament in 1997 still firmly on the right. To the fury of
some of his colelagues he moved leftwards after the party's 2001 defeat,
becoming a moderniser long before David Cameron. He went as far as to defy his
party's whip to support Harriet Harman's Equal Opportunities Bill in the last
parliament.

It is rare for a Speaker to be seen as vulnerable so early on in his tenure and
although the criticism has subsided, only last week a minister is alleged to
have described Bercow as a "stupid, sanctimonious dwarf". Bercow has no doubt
what lies behind the discontent of some Conservatives.

"It was overwhelmingly a personal objection to me...based partly on my perceived
political views... Before becoming Speaker I committed the unforgivable heresy
of changing. I was no longer a right-wing Conservative and that was bad enough
for some, but to become Speaker when I was not the choice of "chaps" was a
"jolly bad show". I remember saying at the time of the election at the
Parliamentary Labour Party hustings that the truth of the matter was that most
Conservatives wanted someone taller, more right-wing, more conformist and with a
wife plucked out of central casting from Conservative Central Office". He adds:
"My sense is that this has gone away now...David Cameron was supportive during
the election and made it clear he wanted me returned". Bercow had faced a
challenge from Ukip's Nigel Farrage in his Buckingham constituency. He won
easily.

Bercow returns to the fray when I ask him about his wife, Sally. She is an
active Labour supporter and a regular tweeter. Some Conservative MPs and parts
of the media are uneasy about the supposedly impartial Speaker being married to
a Labour supporter who would like to be an MP. Some suspect Bercow's journey
before he became Speaker, from a right wing Tory to an MP who seemed in some
ways closer to Labour, began when he met Sally. Bercow is unequivocally
supportive of her right to do as she wishes.

"There are two categories who attack Sally or me - snobs and bigots. The snobs
are those who regard themselves as socially superior because of their
background, the person they have married, or the money they've got. The worst
snobs are of no distinction at all. The bigots are people who cannot bear the
idea of a Speaker with an opinionated wife. If she wants to be a Labour MP she
has every right.....but of course whether she succeeds is a matter for her and
Labour".

Bercow becomes more expanisve. "It's a cowardly form of politics to use my
spouse to beat me. It has been tense at times for both of us. Sally tried to be
open about problems she had in the past. We heard the Mail on Sunday was going
to splash about how she had behaved badly in the workplace. Perhaps she had
done. She was an alcoholic at the time. Anyway she gave an interview and it was
blurred with other messages she got out, and people said to me, 'Oh I hear she
used to sleep around'. The problem she was trying to get out was that she had a
problem with alcohol, she was out of control and that put her in silly and
dangerous situations. She got a rough press out of it but the central issue
remains the same: can one's spouse pursue a career independently? My view is an
unequivocal Yes. Now people say it's different because I am Speaker and that I'm
impartial, but Sally doesn't have to be. She never uses the title Mrs Speaker
and she has no desire to. She's not bound by impartiality in the way that I am."

In his non-partisan role Bercow wants the government to make announcements in
parliament first, and not to the media. In the spirit of new politics has the
coalition been better at this than the last government? He pauses. "I don't
think there has been a great improvement. It's difficult to catch a minister red
handed but I hope the new government learns soon as an unmistakeable symbol that
this has to be different ... It is neither here nor there for someone to say
that this happened in the last parliament ... two wrongs don't make a right ...
ministers must accept responsibility and apologise if they make announcements to
the media first".

Culturally he notes a new restiveness in the Commons. "There's a genuine sense
of anger on the part of Labour with the Liberal Democrats for being their
deficit financing friends before the election and their Friedmanite foes after
it". He stresses he is making an observation and not a political comment on the
Liberal Democrats. But he is also relaxed about this form of anger, saying it is
genuine compared with the "organised barrage at Prime Minister's Question Time".

He is extremely concerned about the barrage and returns to where we began the
interview. " I have noted an excellent new member. She's made an outstanding
start. And yet I saw her bellowing during PMQs. It's the herd instinct. We've
got to stamp it out".

The herd have a Speaker determined to change their ways on several fronts. At a
time when many grand claims are made about a new politics Bercow's public
openness marks an historic break with Speakers of the past.

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 5, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Benefits of immigration

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 151 words


MAY 4

Sir, How disgraceful that none of our prime ministerial hopefuls has had the
moral fibre to defend immigration.

The Huguenots of France in the 17th century and the Jews of Eastern Europe in
the 19th, fleeing persecution and reviled when they arrived; the Jamaicans and
Trinidadians whom we begged to come in the 1950s and who faced the vilest
bigotry; the Ugandan Asians fleeing the mad Idi Amin: the list is endless of
incomers who, a generation on, both retain a communal identity and contribute
hugely to society.

I have had experience of A&E with my elderly parents of late. Without the
immigrants from Africa, Central Europe, Asia, South America and the Antipodes
there would not have been an A&E to care for them.

Sure, we need better controls over the crooks and gangmasters, but please
gentlemen, stop trying to buy off BNP and UKIP supporters by trumping their ace.

BARRY HYMAN Bushey Heath, Herts

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                  July 4, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Whatever happened to?;
Britain's bad seed

BYLINE: CHLOE RHODES

SECTION: SEVEN;FEATURES; Pg. 62

LENGTH: 338 words


Long before Murray mania, in the days when Henman hill went by the more
egalitarian if less catchy name 'Aorangi terrace', Buster Mottram was Britain's
number one tennis player.

Though his performance at Wimbledon was never anything to spill your champagne
over - his high point came in 1982 when he made the final 16 - he excelled at
the Davis Cup and rose to a rank of 14th in the world. But he garnered fame of a
different sort for some rather unsportsmanlike attitudes on immigration.

Instead of limiting his opinions to the grass and the weather in the manner of
today's, sponsorship-conscious sports personality, Mottram liked to broadcast
his hard right beliefs. 'I hope Enoch Powell will never die, just as his
namesake in the Bible never died,' was one of his more memorable lines.

Once he'd retired his racket Mottram focused his ambitions on politics, but
early support for the National Front scuppered his five attempts to become a
Conservative Party candidate, despite a bid in the early Eighties to extend his
fan base (and perhaps counteract his reputation for xenophobia) by forming a
songwriting partnership with black entertainer Kenny Lynch.

For a while Mottram found an ideological home with the UK Independence Party but
was expelled in 2008 when he arrived, uninvited, to a meeting of the party
leadership and tried to broker a deal between Ukip and the BNP. Perhaps out of
gratitude for Mottram's sterling efforts on his behalf, Nick Griffin took over
from Kenny Lynch as his new best friend and even accompanied him to last
summer's annual exhibition tennis match at London's lavish Hurlingham Club,
meeting with many a disapproving tut from its genteel members.

These days he's most often to be found playing bridge at the All England Club or
Real Tennis at Hampton Court. 'He still plays a lot,' said a court employee,
'almost every Monday lunchtime he's out there on the Royal tennis courts, he's
as energetic as ever and has a wide range of topics he likes to talk about.' One
can just imagine.

ChlOe rhOdes

LOAD-DATE: July 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             July 3, 2010 Saturday

Labour must hold its own internal referendum on AV

BYLINE: Denis MacShaneguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 789 words

ABSTRACT

Denis MacShane: Backing Nick Clegg'selectoral reform referendum would divide the
party and confuse the country

FULL TEXT

Labour needs a thorough debate about voting reform now that the referendum
moment is announced. It would be a mistake for leadership candidates to nail
themselves to an alternative vote (AV) or a first-past-the-post (FPTP) mast. AV
was spatchcocked into Labour's manifesto in a desperate last-minute bid to paint
some radical hues on to the good ship Gordon Brown. But voters, not
unreasonably, asked why it took 13 years for Labour to discover the most timid
of all voting reform systems. The late  but, as with his proposals to elect the
House of Lords, the Labour government establishment between 1997 and 2005 was
uninterested.

The 1929-31 Labour government proposed AV, but it was shot down in the Commons,
with Winston Churchill pointing out that the least popular candidate can
overtake the most popular candidate on the basis of transfer votes from every
other political faction that failed to win support. How strange if the second or
third preferences of BNP or Ukip voters prevented progressive Labour candidates
from being elected.

There is no perfect electoral system. Full PR gives the nightmare of Israel's
government but also the relative stability of a Swedish coalition.  points out
that social democracy lacks a majority in most European countries. But 'twas
ever thus. The last time the Danish social democrats had a majority was in 1909.
In the 1950s and 1960s France, Italy and Germany were ruled by enduring
centre-right coalitions. In Britain, since 1945, Labour has ruled for 30 out of
65 years. This is as good a record of longevity in power than all European left
parties outside of Scandanavia, if not better, and better than Australia or
Ireland, where electoral systems are closer to AV than Britain's
first-past-the-post system.

This suggests that electoral reform may not be the Koh-i-noor of democratic
politics. It is policy and, yes, personality that decide how people vote. This
is not to argue that electoral reform should be resisted, but to set the debate
about AV and other systems of voting in a broader context as part of a wider
programme of policy.

Martin Kettle argues that the left cannot win on its own. But nor can the right,
as Angela Merkel is finding out as she struggles to hold her own party and her
flaky Liberal coalition partners together. In 1951, just 3% voted for third
parties. In 2010 two-thirds of voters said no to the Conservatives and to
Labour.

So coalition agreements may be needed under any system of voting, as we now
discover. Kettle is right to argue that the left is lost if it falls back on its
20th-century citadels - public sector unions and the apparatus of state
employment - and ignores the worried savers and the middle salary earners who do
not buy the thesis that ever-increasing taxation is a noble good. The number of
ISAs has doubled to 14.2m in the past decade. Even in a poorer area, such as
Rotherham, the average savings of my constituents who bank or save with Lloyds
or Halifax is £5,381, compared with £6,296 nationally. The "wellderly", as
Harriet Harman brightly called them, are savers, voters and cautious in their
politics. The left ignores this group at its peril.

So where should Labour position itself on the question of a referendum? The
party needs its own debate and its own internal referendum on AV. It cannot be
imposed as party policy by the unilateral diktats of leadership candidates. We
have seen harsh Tory policies attacking the poor or taking the axe to
engineering manufacturing in South Yorkshire. The policies are pure neocon
American Enterprise Institute. But they are being implemented and imposed by
Nick Clegg, Danny Alexander and Vince Cable. They are serial political
adulterers, faithless to their manifesto and values and showing nothing but
contempt for their voters, to whom they promised no VAT rise and then
implemented the opposite.

Now these anti-poor fig leaves for latter-day Thatcherism want us to endorse
their line on AV. Are my enemy's policies to be mine? Are we certain we should
ensure a permanent Lib Dem place in government? Or is the better answer for
Labour to craft a triptych of politics, personalities (based on equal political
place for women as well as men) and policies that can appeal as much to the
holders of 14.2m ISAs as to Bob Crowe? Politics is about contest. For Labour to
become Nick Clegg's poodles by backing his AV referendum will divide the party
and confuse the country. At the very least, Labour should hold a full internal
debate and then an open discussion at the party conference with a vote.

LOAD-DATE: July 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              July 2, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brothers, you can spare a dime;
City Diary

BYLINE: Catherine Boyle

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 165 words


Those of you who considered voting UKIP or who yearn for the union-breaking days
of Thatcher should probably look away now. No fewer than 38 trade union leaders
earn more than £100,000 a year, according to research from the Taxpayers
Alliance.

Six of these union bosses are engaged in bringing comrades to the picket line -
or at least threatening to. When they're not railing about highly paid bankers
bringing the country to its knees, that is.

Dave Prentis of Unison, the biggest public sector union, gets £127,436 for
instance. Derek Simpson, you know, the one whose folk keep grounding British
Airways over pay and flight privileges, gets £120,000. Even that old communist
Bob Crow of the RMT rubs along with £105,000.

The TPA, which could be described by some liberal lefties as the fiscal wing of
UKIP, is needless to say apoplectic with rage. "It is hypocritical for firebrand
trade union leaders ... living a life of luxury ... ordinary, over-stretched
taxpayers ..." You get the drift.

LOAD-DATE: July 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The plain-speaking man's guide to being memorably rude;
As the Speaker is called 'a stupid, sanctimonious dwarf] Max Davidson provides
tips on the art of abuse

BYLINE: Max Davidson

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 777 words


Simon Burns, the Health Minister, has a lot to learn. In a debate in the House
of Commons on Tuesday, the Chelmsford MP could be heard muttering that the
Speaker was a "stupid, sanctimonious dwarf". It was feeble. Amateurish. What,
after all, does "stupid" add? All sanctimonious dwarfs are stupid. The phrase
lacks the pithiness that is the soul of satire.

I don't know if Mr Burns is planning further sallies - his civil servants have
already nicknamed him Third Degree because of his penchant for rudeness - but he
needs to remember that there is a wafer-thin line between wit and cheap abuse.
When Nigel Farage of Ukip stood up in the European Parliament and told the EU
President, Herman Van Rompuy, that he had ''the appearance of a low-grade bank
clerk'', other MEPs cringed with embarrassment. The ''low grade'' just sounded
snobbish: it said more about the insulter than the insultee.

Compare the insipidity of Nigel Farage's language with the silky venom of
Benjamin Disraeli, who said of the Earl of Aberdeen that he plagued his
colleagues with "the crabbed malice of a maundering witch". Or with the inspired
word-painting of Winston Churchill, who called Ramsay MacDonald "a boneless
wonder".

When you are bandying statistics, it is not the end of the world if you get your
figures wrong. When you are trading insults, every word counts. If Mr Burns
wants to raise his game, and be memorably rude, rather than just rude, he should
study the parliamentary speeches of Paul Keating, Australian prime minister from
1991 to 1996. The Lizard of Oz, as he became known, pulled no punches,
describing his opponents variously as "mangy maggots", "intellectual rust
buckets", "gutless spivs", "foulmouthed grubs" and "painted, perfumed gigolos".
The more colourful his language, the more the Australian voters chuckled - he
had put their darkest thoughts into words.

Keating reserved some of his choicest insults for John Howard, then leader of
the opposition, whom he dubbed "the little desiccated coconut". The barb struck
home because, as a physical description of Howard, it was impossible to better.
To this day, I for one can't think of a coconut without thinking of John Howard.

Westminster MPs are allowed less latitude than their Australian counterparts
when it comes to swapping abuse. John Major suffered the double humiliation of
calling Tony Blair a "dimwit" - a prissy, toothless toypoodle of an insult - and
then being forced by the Speaker to withdraw the remark. Even the Labour
backbencher who compared the Tory MP Angela Browning to "a second-rate Miss
Marple" was ruled out of order. But the decencies of parliamentary debate have
sometimes been breached to memorable effect.

Some insults have been so deadly, targeted with such precision, that the victims
have never recovered. Their political reputations have become inseparable from
the mockery of their opponents.

When Vince Cable told Gordon Brown that he had gone from being Stalin to Mr
Bean, it was not just a witty one-liner, but a hammer blow to the then prime
minister's authority: an air of bumbling incompetence attached to him from the
moment the insult was delivered.

When Denis Healey likened an attack by Geoffrey Howe to "being savaged by a dead
sheep", he skewered for all time the ovine ineffectiveness of that Bgrade
performer at the Dispatch Box.

When Michael Foot compared Norman Tebbit to "a semi-house-trained polecat", he
put his finger on what people find so disconcerting about Tebbit: the
incontinence of his views.

You might like the man, but you would never let him into your house - you'd be
too worried about the carpet. The genius of the insult was all in the "semi". An
un-housetrained polecat would have been far less derogatory.

Labour MP Tony Banks never made it to the top of British politics, but wrote his
own chapter in the history of parliamentary abuse, first when he accused
Margaret Thatcher of having "the sensitivity of a sex-starved boa constrictor",
then when he said of the Tory MP Terry Dicks that "the Honourable Member is
living proof that a pig's bladder on a stick can be elected to Parliament".
Unfair, wildly unfair, but unforgettable for that reason.

Simon Burns has made a promising start. In identifying the Speaker as both
sanctimonious and dwarfish, he has pinpointed what makes John Bercow an absurd
figure. But if he wants to join the ranks of the immortals of scorn, politicians
who have eviscerated their opponents with their tongues, he needs to sharpen his
skills. He must hunt for the killer word or image that turns a good insult into
a great one.

"If Simon Burns wants to join the immortals of scorn, he needs to sharpen his
skills "

LOAD-DATE: July 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Speaker John Bercow, on the receiving end: when you are trading
insults, every word counts
PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Tory MP proposes law to ban wearing burkas;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 271 words


A CONSERVATIVE politician is seeking to make it a criminal offence to wear a
burka in public. Philip Hollobone, the MP for Kettering, was the subject of a
complaint to police from the Northamptonshire Race Equality Council five months
ago because of remarks he made about burkas.

He has returned to the fray by tabling a private members' Bill called the Face
Covering (Regulations) Bill which would ban "certain facial coverings" from
being worn in public.

There is no realistic prospect of the measure becoming law. Mr Hollobone came
17th among backbenchers who drew lots for the right to sponsor private members'
Bills, which means it is highly unlikely ever to be debated. Even if it was, it
would be doomed to fail without government support. But by presenting the Bill
yesterday, he secured the right to have it printed. "I think it is inappropriate
to cover your face in public, whether it's a burka, a balaclava or anything
else," he said. "We are never going to get along with having a fully integrated
society if a substantial minority insist on concealing their identity from
everyone else."

Mr Hollobone is noted for being Parliament's cheapest MP, and one of the most
right wing. During the MPs' expenses scandal, it emerged that his office costs
and expenses were lower than those of any other MP.

The UK Independence Party chose not to field a candidate against Mr Hollobone at
the election because his views on Europe are so close to those of Ukip. He was
reported to police in February after he said wearing a burka was "the religious
equivalent of going round with a paper bag over your head with two holes for
eyes".

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 62 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             July 1, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Scrambled - the EU 'threat' to British eggs;
The European Union will not outlaw the sale of groceries by quantity, despite
scare stories to the contrary, reports Martin Hickman

BYLINE: Martin Hickman

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 917 words


LOOK AWAY Eurosceptics. Those meddling Brussels bureaucrats have let you down
again and are not going to ban the sale of eggs by the dozen.

To the disappointment of red-top newspapers and irate contributors to talk
radio, the European Union confirmed yesterday that MEPs had not voted to do away
with a cherished feature of Great British life.

In an emergency statement, the European Parliament said: "Selling eggs by the
dozen will not be illegal under the terms of the amendments adopted to EU food
labelling proposals. Labels will still be able to indicate the number of items
in a pack - whether it's eggs, bread rolls or fish fingers."

While dismaying EU critics who had pounced on reports suggesting it was banning
common-sense labelling, the news will put at rest the minds of shoppers facing
the spectre of having to guess how many food items were in cartons containing a
dozen or half a dozen eggs.

The Great Egg Scare - which had echoes of the hysteria that greeted Edwina
Currie's remarks in 1988 that most British egg production was infected with
salmonella - began with an exclusive in The Mail on Sunday.

On Sunday its front-page story was headlined: "EU to ban selling eggs by the
dozen: Shopkeepers' fury as they are told all food must be weighed and sold by
the kilo."

The story began: "British shoppers are to be banned from buying eggs by the
dozen under new regulations approved by the European Parliament. For the first
time, eggs and other products such as oranges and bread rolls will be sold by
weight instead of by the number contained in a packet."

According to the paper, MEPs had ended a British opt-out from EU rules forbiding
the selling of goods by quantity, meaning that instead of packaging telling
shoppers a box contains six eggs, it would show the weight the eggs in grams.

Promising a fight-back from the Food Standards Agency, the paper reported: "It
could be the first test of David Cameron's pre-Election promise to stand up for
Britain's interests in the EU."

The Federation of Bakers warned, though, that it might be too late to save the
sale of "six bread rolls".

Adam Leyland, editor of The Grocer magazine, railed at the stupidity. "You
couldn't make it up, could you?" he said. "It would be funny if it were an April
Fool's joke. But it's not and it will potentially cost the industry millions,
while confusing customers no end. The EU's attempt to simplify labelling has
created a multi-headed monster."

Even the Environment Secretary, Caroline Spelman, was drawn into the row, saying
in a statement. "This goes against common sense," she protested.

"Shopkeeping is a long standing British tradition and we know what customers
want. They want to buy eggs by the dozen and they should be allowed to - a point
I shall be making clear to our partners in Europe."

But the story was not what it seemed. It arose from an EU shake-up of food
labelling, which defeated the traffic lights scheme backed by health
campaigners, but tightened the law on country of origin, and cleared up other
matters, such as the mandatory labelling of trans-fat and the weight of foods.

No one noticed - apart from the European Parliament - that the weight rule would
not ban other forms of description, such as quantity.

Egg packs will have to state the weight, but can carry on being sold and
labelled in half-dozens and dozens.

MEP Renate Sommer, who is steering the food labelling laws through the
Parliament, was unequivocal. "There will be no changes to selling foods by
number," she said.

"Selling eggs by the dozen, for example, will not be banned."

The European Consumers' Organisation said the scare, coming on top of claims
from Italian chocolate giant Ferrero Rocher that Nutella would have to carry a
health warning, was rooted in misinformation.

A spokesman said: "Much of the European media are now starting to see both the
extent and inaccuracy of a lot of the information we were seeing given to MEPs
before this major Parliament vote.

"The 'banning of half a dozen eggs' is a perfect example. Not only is it a
simply inaccurate scare story which has been widely published, but it hugely
distracts from the real issue. The vote was primarily about traffic light
labelling and how to ensure more accurate information to consumers, yet it was
contorted into a vote on labelling foods as 'dangerous' or banning sale by the
dozen."

GREAT EURO MYTHS

The sky's the limit

* Ukip politician Nigel Farage claimed the EU Single European Sky agreement
prevented Britain from lifting a no-fly zone during volcanic ash cloud in April.
In fact, it was up to individual countries and several EU states lifted
restrictions before the UK. The Civil Aviation Authority said: "Nigel Farage
obviously hasn't got any knowledge of aviation."

Pick of the crop

* In 1995, the Ministry of Agriculture took issue with a shipment of
strawberries on the grounds they were too square. Workers in Hull picked out the
mis-shapen fruit and returned 880 punnets to Spain. While the EU specified that
Class I strawberries should be oval, the punnets could have been sold
unclassified. It was suggested the inspector had been over-zealous in
interpreting European rules.

Pounds and pints

Fresh fruit and veg must be sold in kilos and grams under EU rules, but prices
may also be marked up in pounds and ounces. Shoppers can still ask for "two
pounds of potatoes". Britain has an unlimited opt-out for miles and pints. Three
years ago the EU said: "There is not now and never will be any requirement to
drop imperial measurements."

LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
