
                               1 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             August 30, 2010 Monday

DIARY

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1063 words


PRINCE Charles has joked about standing as a candidate in any presidential
election. Former Labour MP Chris Mullin makes the disclosure in the new edition
of his diaries.

In it he recalls visiting Charles at Clarence House in May 2009. 'A couple of
brief exchanges with HRH,' writes Mullin. 'He remarked that he had recently
encountered a woman who shouted: "Abolish the monarchy", and had only just
restrained himself from replying: "Fine, then I can run for president.'' '

Mullin thinks well of the idea, observing: 'One can't help feeling that he would
prefer that to being king. In the current climate he'd walk it and then at least
he would have a mandate.' The diaries also record a trip to Highgrove, where
Mullin is struck

the many garden tributes.

'Everywhere little memorials, busts of friends, of the Prince himself and in a
glade among the trees a delicate sculpture of the murdered daughters of the
Tsar; there is even a little memorial to a dead dog. Only one glaring omission:
Diana. Of her, no mention.'

THROUGH all the tribulations of a turbulent life, including a torrid affair with
Gary Cooper, ill health, the loss of a daughter aged seven, and the break-up of
her marriage to writer Roald Dahl, Hollywood star Patricia Neal cherished the
Oscar she won for her performance in the 1963 film Hud.

Now, less than a month after her death from lung cancer at 84, I learn that her
treasured statuette will go to neither her troubled daughter Tessa nor to her
model granddaughter turned TV presenter Sophie Dahl (pictured), but to the
hospital named after her in America.

The actress , whose death triggered a feverish search for her will, had for
three decades supported the Patricia Neal Rehabilitation Centre for stroke
victims in Knoxville, Massachusetts, the town where she grew up. Her support was
prompted after she suffered three strokes at the age of 39 in 1965 and was in a
coma for three weeks, after which Patricia had to relearn how to walk and talk.

The Fort Sanders Regional Medical Centre in Knoxville later dedicated the
Patricia Neal Rehabilitation Centre in her honour and she appeared in
advertisements for it.

Says an aide at the hospital tactfully: 'We have been discussing with Ms Neal's
family which memorabilia items we may receive.' A family source says simply:
'They are getting the Oscar.'

DESPITE Scotland Yard chief Sir Paul Stephenson's talk of budget cuts, not all
his officers have got the austerity message. According to expenses claims
published

the Met, Deputy Commissioner Tim Godwin spent 691 on return rail travel
attending a chief constables' conference in Manchester on June 30. On the very
same day, Assistant Commissioner John Yates claimed 6148 for standard class
return rail travel to the same event. And what's this? Assistant Commissioner
Ian McPherson submitted a whopping 6399.99 for first class return rail travel to
the self-same gathering. Wouldn't it have been simpler, and a lot less
expensive, if they had shared a car?

NO doubt his writer grandmother, Dame Barbara Cartland, the queen of romantic
fiction, would have penned an altogether different outcome. For more than a year
after marrying for the first time at the age of 59, the Earl of Dartmouth and
his heiress wife Fiona have not yet moved in together.

The Old Etonian peer, an MEP for UKIP, and Fiona were married in a civil
ceremony at Haldon Belvedere, a folly near Exeter, during which he acknowledged
that he had left matrimony late. Australian-born Fiona, 57, a mother of three,
was previously married to tycoon Rupert Murdoch's nephew Matt Handbury,
nicknamed Down Under 'the man from Uncle'.

But friends of the couple say that their union is a rather curious one since
Fiona has yet to be permanently carried over the threshold, so to speak, of
William's grand London home, or indeed of his 67 million country house,
Whiteways in Devon which he shares with his mother, Raine, Countess Spencer ,
Princess Diana's stepmother.

While the arrangement has raised eyebrows among their pals, who have discussed
the possibility that it does not augur well, the couple may have perhaps found
the recipe for the perfect marriage , not separate beds but separate residences.

For Dartmouth tells me: 'Having married Fiona later in life we each had more
than one home. We are slowly consolidating. Indeed Fiona has now sold her home
in Sydney.' He adds: 'The consolidation has been made more complicated because
as of June last year, I have the honour to represent our country in the European
Parliament. But we are getting there.'

Handsome Dartmouth dated a string of beauties in his long bachelor days. His
last love before Fiona was TV producer Claire Kavanagh. That ended after a year,
and before Claire discovered she was pregnant. She later presented William with
a baby son, Gerald, who has taken his surname, Legge.

'It may seem unusual, but William and Fiona have been holidaying together this
summer in Spain, so it must work,' says a friend.

Having appointed fashion tycoon Sir Philip Green as his cost-cutting tsar, what
job, I wonder, might the prime minister offer another figure with the Midas
touch, Simon Cowell?

Shortly before their holiday in Cornwall, David and Samantha Cameron invited the
X Factor supremo for a small private supper, with supermodel Claudia Schiffer
among guests. The venue, Downing Street, however, is one property that Cowell,
always on the lookout for new homes, can't purchase.

The impresario, who owns a luxurious house in Beverly Hills and a 66 million
pile in Holland Park has, like Jemima Khan, been to view Pusey House, near
Faringdon, Oxfordshire, home of chocolate heiress Felicity Cadbury. A snip at
627 million, Simon . . .

PS Mariella Frostrup owes much of her success to her seductive voice. The
whisky-and- sex tones have taken the Oslo-born blonde from lowly record company
pr girl to 6300,000-a-year broadcast star.

But now she says she would swap her distinctive timbre for an improvement to
another part of her anatomy. She says: 'It's like having beautiful legs or
something. You can take no pride in it. And I'd swap it for beautiful legs.

'Where does it come from? I've no idea.' When it was suggested that she, Honor
Blackman and Judi Dench are all possessed of 'scientifically perfect' voices,
Mariella says: 'Yes, but it's a composite of the three.On my own I'm only one
third perfect , which I've always suspected!'

LOAD-DATE: September 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                August 29, 2010
                                 First Edition

Who is mad enough to lead Ukip?;
The party of 'fruitcakes' is in need of direction. Andrew Johnson and Matt
Chorley assess who is one slice short of a serious leadership bid

BYLINE: Andrew Johnson and Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 663 words


He could be the prize fighter the ailing political party needs. The boxing
promoter Frank Maloney - best known for managing British ex-world heavyweight
champion Lennox Lewis - is preparing to enter the ring in the battle to lead the
UK Independence Party.

It would be another surprise twist in the history of the arch-Eurosceptic party,
which has seen one of its MEPs jailed and its most successful leader narrowly
escape death in an air crash.

The most recent leader, Lord Pearson, quit this month after less than a year at
the helm, saying he was "not much good at party politics". During the general
election campaign he admitted he did not know his own manifesto, yet the party
still won almost one million votes. Last year during European Parliament
elections, one in six voters backed Ukip, securing 13 MEPs, second only to the
Tories.

As the party prepares for its annual conference in Torquay, one insider said the
gathering was likely to turn into a "beauty pageant", with at least seven
potential leadership contenders.

Mr Maloney, 56, a street-smart south Londoner, will possibly be taking on
Barbara Cartland's grandson, a professor of economics and the inventor of a
million-pound puzzle contest. Nigel Farage, the former leader who resigned last
year to run against the Speaker, John Bercow, has yet to decide if he will stand
again. He is still recovering from serious back injuries he got in a plane crash
on polling day.

Mr Maloney also said he was in the process of deciding whether to run. "I'm
thinking about it," he said yesterday. "Ukip needs to modernise and it needs the
leadership to bring it into the modern world and to modernise its image.

"The majority of people see us as cast-away Tories or old English. I don't think
that's the case. I'm not an ex-Tory and I'm not old English, but I am patriotic.
If Ukip makes the wrong decision now, it will stagnate and simply become a party
of protest."

In 2006, David Cameron branded Ukip members "fruitcakes, loonies and closet
racists, mostly". At the time Mr Farage said: "I don't mind him calling us
loonies. I don't mind him calling us fruitcakes. But what you cannot do in the
21st century is to lob about accusations of racism."

David Campbell Bannerman

The former Tory is a descendant of the Liberal prime minister Sir Henry
Campbell-Bannerman. He is the deputy leader of Ukip and intends to stand for the
leadership. "It's overwhelmingly clear now that trusting Cameron with Europe
will be as misguided as trusting Blair on Iraq."

Christopher Monckton

Described by his own party as "mad, bad and dangerous, our own Lord Byron", he
is a viscount, a former journalist, Dominic Lawson's brother-in-law and inventor
of the Eternity puzzle. "This might be talking heresy, but I consider myself a
happy European."

Gerard Batten

Ukip's London MEP helped to found the party in 1993 and came second in the 2009
leadership contest. He intends to stand again this year. "I'm an unconditional
withdrawalist. That's what the members want to hear. Why should we put up with a
government voted for by Latvians?"

William, Earl of Dartmouth

Barbara Cartland was his granny and Princess Diana his stepsister. "When people
ask will Britain leave the European Union, I respond with just three words. Yes,
we will."

Nigel Farage

The former leader is the bookies' favourite. He believes the party should fight
on a wider platform than just Europe, pointing to a "massive vacuum in British
politics".

Frank Maloney

The boxing promoter ran in the 2004 London mayoral elections. He is said to have
refused to campaign in Camden because it contained too many gays. "I don't want
to campaign around gays. I don't think they do a lot for society. What I have a
problem with is them openly flaunting their sexuality."

Professor Tim Congdon CBE

The Oxford-educated economist advised the Tories on economic policy during much
of John Major's rule. "Like the Soviet Union before it, the European Union is
undemocratic, and in time it too will collapse."

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 29, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK TO COME

BYLINE: JAMES HICKLING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 262 words


TOMORROW

The US Open Tennis Championships begin in New York. King Carl XVI Gustaf of
Sweden presents Stockholm's Polar Music Prize, one of the world's most
prestigious music awards: this year's winners are Ennio Morricone and Björk.

TUESDAY

President Obama delivers an Oval Office address on Iraq. The last episode of The
Bill is broadcast on ITV1 (9pm) after a 26-year run. It's the English football
transfer deadline; after today teams will have to wait until January to sign new
players.

WEDNESDAY

Tony Blair: A Journey, the former PM's memoirs, are published; he will give his
first major political interview since leaving office to Andrew Marr tonight (BBC
Two, 7pm). "Operation New Dawn", the withdrawal of US troops from Iraq, begins -
although a transitional force of 50,000 will remain until the end of 2011.

THURSDAY

In Washington, Hillary Clinton chairs the first direct Israeli-Palestinian peace
talks since late 2008. Ukip's annual conference opens in Torquay. The Royal
British Legion's annual Pedal to Paris charity cycle ride begins from Greenwich
Park.

FRIDAY

V S Naipaul's new book, The Masque of Africa, is published. England play
Bulgaria, while Wales go to Montenegro, Scotland to Lithuania, and Northern
Ireland to Slovenia for Euro 2012 qualifying matches.

SATURDAY

The Braemar Royal Highland Gathering opens, featuring dancing and tossing the
caber. The Queen is likely to attend, as patron of the games.

SUNDAY

It is the 30th anniversary of the opening of the St Gotthard Tunnel in
Switzerland, the longest highway tunnel in the world at 10.14 miles.

JAMES HICKLING

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 29, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

How Tories regret the immigration promise

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1259 words


It's usually the most fraudulent promise that reaps the greatest electoral
reward. In the election of 2010 it was the Conservatives' pledge to "cap
immigration". It was already vacuuming up the votes even before Gordon Brown was
Pole-axed by Gillian Duffy's: "All these eastern Europeans what are coming in,
where are they flocking from?" The answer to Mrs Duffy's question was that the
eastern Europeans were flocking from eastern Europe. It's equally obvious,
however, that since the overwhelming majority of immigration was indeed from
those countries that joined the European Union in 2004, any claim to be able to
"cap" immigration was, and is, incredible. Unless the Tories were to have
followed UKIP or the BNP in advocating withdrawal from the EU, their pledge was
disingenuous, if not dishonest.

Last week the official annual figures for immigration were released. They showed
a jump in net migration to Britain in 2009 of 20% to 196,000. Compare that with
the Conservatives' claim to be able to bring "net migration" down to the tens of
thousands a year. These figures, obviously, refer to the period before the
Lib-Con coalition government took office; but their details further emphasise
the fatuity of setting a net figure as a target.

The increase was caused by a dramatic drop, of 60%, in the number of Britons
emigrating.

Unless the government starts ordering us to leave the country - a tricky policy
to sell, although we would all have individuals we would wish to nominate - it
can have no possibility of controlling that side of the immigration balance
sheet.

The only cap it has been able to come up with is to declare that this year there
must be 1,300 fewer highly skilled immigrants from non-EU nations than entered
the country last year under the Labour government's "points system". Highly
skilled individuals, needless to say, are those who will make the least demand
on public services and who will pay the most in taxes. Brilliant. The trouble
is, however, that non-EU citizens not defined as "highly skilled" were already
subject to an absolute ban on residency, unless they qualify as asylum seekers.

It is bizarre for a government that boasts it will make Britain "open for
business" to tell its leading companies - presumably at some stage later this
year - sorry, you've exceeded your collective allocation of highly skilled
foreign employees. In many cases, this will just mean that the same people will
be paid the same salary but based offshore, paying their taxes to some other
more grateful government.

As a work-permit holder called Lao Yao wrote to the Financial Times when Theresa
May, the home secretary, announced the new "cap": "I thought I had been
contributing to the UK as I have been paying £60k-plus income tax last year,
spending the rest of my income within the UK and doing quite a bit of charity
while having no access to any public funds. These new policies show me a
different picture: I think UK people are in general happier without people like
me around and I would be happier as well to go to somewhere [where] tax is below
50%. So time to say goodbye ..." Good riddance, some will say - but certainly
not Vince Cable, the business secretary, who on Thursday marked his known
dissent from the Conservatives' cap by observing that the latest increase in net
migration "has nothing to do with the number of non-EU work permits issued",
adding archly: "I've full confidence that my colleagues understand the need for
immigration controls that support business recovery and economic growth."

As a matter of fact, almost all his Tory colleagues do understand: most of them
regard the reduction of little more than a thousand of non-EU highly skilled
workers as the minimum required to avoid the charge of breaking a general
election pledge that they now find rather embarrassing.

Last week, also, the campaigning group Migrationwatch used the figures -
somewhat spuriously, given their composition - to restate its view that
unemployment among Britons is a direct consequence of the present levels of
immigration.

The "lump of labour" fallacy - the idea that economies work simply through the
allocation of a fixed amount of work - will always have its adherents; even
though it is believed by no reputable economist (nor indeed by any disreputable
one), it still seems more popular than the notion that if businesses are allowed
to take on the best and most competitive workers without interference then the
host economy will grow and create more employment opportunities for others.

It is certainly lamentable that while millions of Britons vegetate on
out-of-work benefits, jobs that they should be fit for are taken in their
hundreds of thousands by migrants. In the vast majority of such cases, however,
the immigration is not a cause of the indigenous unemployment, but a symptom.

This was made painfully clear in The Poles are Coming, a BBC documentary a
couple of years ago. In it, a squash farmer called Cam Allan, when asked why he
had employed only three Englishmen as pickers among the hundreds of east
Europeans, said: "We've a job to get anyone else to do the work. The rates of
pay are above the minimum wage. It's just finding the people to do this type of
work we've got."

Cut to a group of strapping lads leaving the Peterborough dole office, being
asked by the same reporter why they wouldn't go for the £7 an hour offered by
Farmer Allan: "No, mate, I'd rather sign on than do that"; "I don't want to work
in, like, no cornfield"; "I don't want to work with a load of foreigners."

Sir Andrew Green, Migrationwatch's chairman, has his own characteristic take on
this situation: "Do we import apples or apple pickers? From the point of view of
society and our economy as a whole we ought to be importing the apples." Yet
that should never be the only choice: it ought to be possible to have English
apples picked by willing Englishmen - as was the case for centuries. That,
however, was before the modern welfare state, which, having been started with
the best of intentions, developed into a machine for the discouragement of
employment.

Why would one of those Peterborough lads give up the security of uninterrupted
dole for a short-term seasonal job picking fruit, when he knows that would
probably make him worse off financially? That is why Iain Duncan Smith, the work
and pensions secretary, is struggling to persuade the Treasury to allow people
to remain for a while on out-of-work benefits while they break out of long-term
redundancy with (as is often necessary) a shortterm job. More fundamentally, if
the tax and benefits system, in its Babylonian complexity, ensures that
remaining on welfare seems more rewarding than employment for millions of
British people, why should they feel compelled - or even want - to work? Of
course, the prime minister himself well understands the real direction of cause
and effect between the number of people on outof-work benefits and immigration.
When asked about this in Birmingham earlier this month, at one of his PM Direct
public meetings, David Cameron told a questioner: "Welfare reform and helping
people back to work and immigration are two sides of the same coin and we will
never control immigration properly unless we get people back to work."

That, I suspect, is as close as we will get to Cameron admitting that his
much-vaunted cap on highly skilled non-EU migrants is, at best, irrelevant.
Still, it's a start on the painful route to reality.

dominic.lawson@sunday-times.co.uk

'THE PARTY NOW FINDS ITS ELECTION PLEDGE RATHER EMBARRASSING'

LOAD-DATE: August 31, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

DR JOHNSON LIVES AGAIN;
Lexicographer Samuel Johnson published his Dictionary Of The English Language in
1755. But if he were to return in the 21st century what wouldthe ol dcurmudgeon
make of our world? A newbook by TOM MORTON reveals all

BYLINE: TOM MORTON

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 748 words


AIRPORT LOUNGE n. Parody of a Sitting Room or Mme POMPADOUR's Salon; oft a Hive
for Dullards clad in Mister LEVI's Docker Pantaloons BLOG n. Electronick Diary
unto which earnest Fools do commit their innermost Thoughts, safe that no Man
shall ever read them BRAZILIAN adj.

To be shorn athwart the Nethers & Privy-Piece, a common Agony of the fashionable
CHICK LIT adj. Fiction of Slatterns accurs'd with two Lodgings, three Paid
Employments, four Consorts & one ardent intent to have it all CONFERENCE CALL n.
Mechanickal Impossibility wherein a Fool attempts to be closer to his Fellows by
shouting into a BARREL CROCS n. Idiot-Badge for the FEET DALEK n. Ironmonger'd
Hobgoblin that imperils all CREATION for up to five-and-forty Minutes at a TIME
DEAL OR NO DEAL n. Point-Beard'd Goblin Noel Edmonds' Charade, treating random
Order as MAGICK & People as POLTROONS EASTENDERS n. Troupe of fabrickated
Cockney-Oiks who do parade their Woes before the Publick with the Regularity of
the Clock FLATSCREEN adj.

Most desir'd Format of idiot-Lantern; a grand Portrait-Frame for Households
devoid of all ART GATWICK n. Godforsaken Port of Embarkation that claims to be
Part of London HEALTH & SAFETY n. adj. Canting legalistick NANNY, forewarning a
dumb cow-like Publick that Coffee be HOT & that Nuts may contain NUTS IPHONE n.
Mister JOBS' Pocket-Trinket, which can perform all domestick Tasks save steering
a Stage-Coach or ridding a Periwig of BEETLES IKEA n. Domestick Valhalla in
which men do pace great Halls for Eternity in Search of Feasting-Tables, each
nam'd Bjorn, Olaf, &c JUNGLE n. Antipodean Forest us'd as a penal colony for
Bedlamies & pendulous Mummers; out of which a Celebrity may be GOT KATONA adj.

Simultaneously to be beset by all possible Travails of moral life LOW-ENERGY
BULB n. Wan electrick-Candle that creates the Effekt, not so much of Light, but
of a SPECTRE in the Room MEERKAT n. Insectivorous Afric Rodent now of greatest
Reknown for the Sale of ASSURANCES for Curricles & Carriages MICROWAVE n.

Infernal Cupboard that can raise a Fruit-Pie unto the Temperature of a
Blacksmith's FORGE NACHO n. Triangulat'd Spanish Biscuit, flavour'd as a
Footman's SHOE ORGANIC adj. Most esteem'd Designation of Food-stufs; untouch'd
by the base Hand of Industrie, yet riddl'd with noble WORMS PIZZA n. Italianate
open-fac'd Cheese-Pie, customarily serv'd by a Street-Urchin from a Pallet
strapp'd to a wheel'd Scooter RECYCLING BIN n. Wishing-Well in which Persons do
propel their Waste in ardent Hope of Santifickation SALE n. Economick Bubble
wherein the Common Man buys what he does not NEED at a Price the Shop-Keeper can
not AFFORD.

SMOOTHIE n. Pious Broth of crush'd fruit, for those whose Constitutions can take
no Ale & whose Hearts can take no PLEASURE SNOWBOARDING n. Extension of the
Pirate's cruel Art, whereby a ragged Cabin-Boy is strapped to a Plank and push'd
down a Mountain TOP GEAR n. Mister Jez. CLARKSON's Gaggle of Big-hair'd,
billowblous'd BULLIES, all covetous of CARRIAGES TWITTER n.

Endless Tract of the present Tense where Men do recount their Breakfasts, voice
liberal OUTRAGE & agree with Mister Stephen FRY TURKEY TWIZZLERS n. Poultry
Truncheon, possess'd of scant nutritional Value yet great entertainment Value
for it so irks Jamie OLIVER UKIP n. Cabal of Clubmen who vow'd to free
themselves of European Dominance whilst under the influence of Dutchmen's GIN &
Frenchman's BRANDY UNIVERSITY n. Seat of Learning at which Youths do prepare for
adult Life by pretending to Work & amassing colossal DEBT VEGANISM n. Impossibly
drab Penance, renouncing all Flesh, Fowl, Fish, Milk, Eggs, Honey &, withal all
human Pleasure WEDDING LIST n. Ransom Note that does set the Price of Friendship
at one Sauce-Pan, two Down Pillows or six Glasses THE WIRE n. Acclaim'd Acting
Troupe of the Citizenry of Baltimore, Maryland; the first Colonie to have both
learn'd & abandon'd ENGLISH X FACTOR n. Saturday ruin'd by Tear-stain'd
Orphan-Protector Mister Louis WALSH & his Retinue of singing URCHINS YUMMY MUMMY
n. Hateful Term of barb'd Praise for a Woman who has borne Children yet not
become a CRONE ZOO n. Park at which the middling Sort may see a Panda, adopt a
Monkey or placate a Child.

. To order Dr Johnson's Dictionary Of Modern Life (Square Peg, £9.99) with free
UK delivery send a PO or cheque payable to Express Bookshop to: Modern Life
Offer, PO Box 200, Falmouth TR11 4WJ, call 0871 988 8367 (10p/min from BT
landlines) or visit www.expressbookshop.com

LOAD-DATE: August 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From top left clockwise: twizzler, meerkat, Johnson, and a Dalek

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 28, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

DR JOHNSON LIVES AGAIN

BYLINE: TOM MORTON

SECTION: FEATURES; 14

LENGTH: 773  words


Lexicographer Samuel Johnson published his Dictionary Of The English Language in
1755. But if he were to return in the 21st century what would the old curmudgeon
make of our world? A new book by TOM MORTON reveals all

AIRPORT LOUNGE n.

Parody of a Sitting Room or Mme POMPADOUR's Salon; oft a Hive for Dullards clad
in Mister LEVI's Docker Pantaloons

BLOG n.

Electronick Diary unto which earnest Fools do commit their innermost Thoughts,
safe that no Man shall ever read them

BRAZILIAN adj.

To be shorn athwart the Nethers & Privy-Piece, a common Agony of the fashionable
CHICK LIT adj.

Fiction of Slatterns accurs'd with two Lodgings, three Paid Employments, four
Consorts & one ardent intent to have it all

CONFERENCE CALL n.

Mechanickal Impossibility wherein a Fool attempts to be closer to his Fellows by
shouting into a BARREL

CROCS n.

Idiot-Badge for the FEET

DALEK n.

Ironmonger'd Hobgoblin that imperils all CREATION for up to five-and-forty
Minutes at a TIME

DEAL OR NO DEAL n.

Point-Beard'd Goblin Noel Edmonds' Charade, treating random Order as MAGICK &
People as POLTROONS

EASTENDERS n.

Troupe of fabrickated Cockney-Oiks who do parade their Woes before the Publick
with the Regularity of the Clock

FLATSCREEN adj.

Most desir'd Format of idiot-Lantern; a grand Portrait-Frame for Households
devoid of all ART GATWICK n.

Godforsaken Port of Embarkation that claims to be Part of London

HEALTH & SAFETY n. adj.

Canting legalistick NANNY, forewarning a dumb cow-like Publick that Coffee be
HOT & that Nuts may contain NUTS

IPHONE n.

Mister JOBS' Pocket-Trinket, which can perform all domestick Tasks save steering
a Stage-Coach or ridding a Periwig of BEETLES

IKEA n.

Domestick Valhalla in which men do pace great Halls for Eternity in Search of
FeastingTables, each nam'd Bjorn, Olaf, &c

JUNGLE n.

Antipodean Forest us'd as a penal colony for Bedlamies & pendulous Mummers; out
of which a Celebrity may be GOT

KATONA adj.

Simultaneously to be beset by all possible Travails of moral life

LOW-ENERGY BULB n.

Wan electrick-Candle that creates the Effekt, not so much of Light, but of a
SPECTRE in the Room

MEERKAT n.

Insectivorous Afric Rodent now of greatest Reknown for the Sale of ASSURANCES
for Curricles & Carriages

MICROWAVE n.

Infernal Cupboard that can raise a Fruit-Pie unto the Temperature of a
Blacksmith's FORGE

NACHO n.

Triangulat'd Spanish Biscuit, flavour'd as a Footman's SHOE

ORGANIC adj.

Most esteem'd Designation of Food-stufs; untouch'd by the base Hand of
Industrie, yet riddl'd with noble WORMS

PIZZA n.

Italianate open-fac'd CheesePie, customarily serv'd by a Street-Urchin from a
Pallet strapp'd to a wheel'd Scooter

RECYCLING BIN n.

Wishing-Well in which Persons do propel their Waste in ardent Hope of
Santifickation

SALE n.

Economick Bubble wherein the Common Man buys what he does not NEED at a Price
the Shop-Keeper can not AFFORD.

SMOOTHIE n.

Pious Broth of crush'd fruit, for those whose Constitutions can take no Ale &
whose Hearts can take no PLEASURE

SNOWBOARDING n.

Extension of the Pirate's cruel Art, whereby a ragged CabinBoy is strapped to a
Plank and push'd down a Mountain

TOP GEAR n.

Mister Jez. CLARKSON's Gaggle of Big-hair'd, billowblous'd BULLIES, all covetous
of CARRIAGES

TWITTER n.

Endless Tract of the present Tense where Men do recount their Breakfasts, voice
liberal OUTRAGE & agree with Mister Stephen FRY

TURKEY TWIZZLERS n.

Poultry Truncheon, possess'd of scant nutritional Value yet great entertainment
Value for it so irks Jamie OLIVER

UKIP n.

Cabal of Clubmen who vow'd to free themselves of European Dominance whilst under
the influence of Dutchmen's GIN & Frenchman's BRANDY

UNIVERSITY n.

Seat of Learning at which Youths do prepare for adult Life by pretending to Work
& amassing colossal DEBT

VEGANISM n.

Impossibly drab Penance, renouncing all Flesh, Fowl, Fish, Milk, Eggs, Honey &,
withal all human Pleasure

WEDDING LIST n.

Ransom Note that does set the Price of Friendship at one Sauce-Pan, two Down
Pillows or six Glasses

THE WIRE n.

Acclaim'd Acting Troupe of the Citizenry of Baltimore, Maryland; the first
Colonie to have both learn'd & abandon'd ENGLISH

X FACTOR n.

Saturday ruin'd by Tear-stain'd Orphan-Protector Mister Louis WALSH & his
Retinue of singing URCHINS

YUMMY MUMMY n.

Hateful Term of barb'd Praise for a Woman who has borne Children yet not become
a CRONE

ZOO n.

Park at which the middling Sort may see a Panda, adopt a Monkey or placate a
Child.

To order Dr Johnson's Dictionary Of Modern Life (Square Peg, GBP 9.99) with free
UK delivery send a PO or cheque payable to Express Bookshop to: Modern Life
Offer, PO Box 200, Falmouth TR11 4WJ, call 0871 988 8367 (10p/ min from BT
landlines) or visit www.expressbookshop.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From top left clockwise:
twizzler, meerkat, Johnson, and a Dalek

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Revealed: Hanson's secret involvement in pornography business;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uktelegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 231 words


Barely three months after Robert Hanson married Masha Markova, a Russian
businesswoman 25 years his junior, the son of the late industrialist Lord Hanson
has found himself embroiled in an unseemly courtroom battle involving a
pornographic film company.

Hanson, 49, is being sued by David Newnham of Victoria, in Australia, who claims
to be owed £350,000, including interest, after he was sacked as the chief
executive of Woodman Entertainment, a Spanish company involved in making
pornographic films such as Psycho Sex, Wide Open and Sex Carnage.

In documents filed at the High Court, Newnham alleges that Hanson has a
financial interest in Woodman and, in August 2008, guaranteed his salary for two
years. He was, however, sacked in October that year and is now seeking to compel
Hanson to honour the agreement. Newnham says he met Hanson at the Mayfair
offices of his company Hanson Capital. It is a Hanson Family Holdings company,
of which Hanson is the chairman.

The deputy chairman is Sir Hayden Phillips, the chairman of the National Theatre
and charities consultant to the Prince of Wales. Its directors include the Earl
of Dartmouth, the Ukip MEP. There is no reference on the company's website to
Woodman.

Hanson, who was once engaged to the model Sophie Anderton and whose father was a
close ally of Margaret Thatcher, declines to comment. He was on holiday
yesterday with his wife.

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Robert Hanson boasts Sir Hayden Phillips and the Earl of Dartmouth on
his board

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

DR JOHNSON LIVES AGAIN;
The great lexicographer Samuel Johnson published his Dictionary Of The English
Language in 1755. But if he were to return to Britain in the 21st century what
would the witty old curmudgeon make of our world of Twitter and pizzas? A new
book by latter-day Dr Johnson TOM MORTON reveals all. Here we publish an extract

BYLINE: TOM MORTON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1076 words


AIRPORT LOUNGE n.

parody of a Sitting Room or Mme POMPADOUR's Salon; oft a Hive for Dullards clad
in Mister LEVI's Docker Pantaloons

ALTON TOWERS n.

purgatory in Staffordshire: Man is condemn'd to stand in Line with his grimmest
Fellows awaiting Fates of Food or Propulsion

BARBECUE n.

Englishman's Summer Repast, compos'd in equal Parts of cann'd Ale, Charcoal and
RAIN-WATER

BLOG n.

electronick Diary unto which earnest Fools do commit their innermost Thoughts,
safe that no Man shall ever read them BRAZILIAN adj.

to be shorn athwart the Nethers & Privy-Piece, a common Agony of the fashionable

CHATTERING CLASSES n.

polite Opinion, vest'd with mythickal Power, as if Gentlefolk steer'd the Ship
of State 'twixt Slices of Carrot-Cake

CHICK LIT adj.

Fiction of Slatterns accurs'd with two Lodgings, three Paid Employments, four
Consorts & one ardent intent to have it all

CONFERENCE CALL n.

Mechanickal Impossibility wherein a Fool attempts to be closer to his Fellows by
shouting into a BARREL

CROCS n.

Idiot-Badge for the FEET

DALEK n.

ironmonger'd Hobgoblin that imperils all CREATION for up to five-and-forty
Minutes at a TIME

DEAL OR NO DEAL n.

Point-Beard'd Goblin Noel Edmonds' Charade, treating random Order as MAGICK &
People as POLTROONS

DEODORANT n.

Miasma that, when apply'd underarm in sufficient Depth, is held by Primitives &
English Youths to convey Irresistibility

DOHERTY, PETE

callow Waif who does battle 'gainst the twin Forces of Opium & the Magistrate
with merely a Lute & a Poetry-Book

EASTENDERS n.

Troupe of fabrickated Cockney-Oiks who do parade their Woes before the Publick
with the Regularity of the Clock

EXAM n.

a blunt test of Aptitude, in which three Years of IGNORANCE is cramm'd in to
three Hours of SILENCE

FLATSCREEN adj.

most desir'd Format of idiot-Lantern; a grand Portrait-Frame for Households
devoid of all ART

GATWICK n.

Godforsaken Port of Embarkation that claims to be Part of London yet is found in
the coastal County of SUSSEX

GCSE n.

Exam ritual where the Results show GENIUS, the Political Commentators show
Spoon-fed MILKSOPS & the News-Papers show Comely Maidens

HEALTH & SAFETY n. adj.

canting legalistick NANNY, forewarning a dumb cow-like Publick that Coffee be
HOT & that Nuts may contain NUTS

HOTEL n.

Inn at which a Traveller may avail himself of such Necessities as an electronick
Britches-Press & a Lilliputin Tea-Kettle

IPHONE n.

Mister JOBS' Pocket-Trinket, which can perform all domestick Tasks save steering
a Stage-Coach or ridding a Periwig of BEETLES

IKEA n.

domestick Valhalla in which men do pace great Halls for Eternity in Search of
Feasting-Tables, each nam'd Bjorn, Olaf, &c

JUNGLE n.

antipodean Forest us'd by England as a penal colony for Bedlamies & pendulous
Mummers; out of which a Celebrity may be GOT

KATONA adj.

simultaneously to be beset by all possible Travails of moral life

LEGO n.

Norsemen's CONSPIRACY of fiendish plasticked Brickwork designed to keep
England's Infants in SERVITUDE 26f13drhead

LOW-ENERGY BULB n.

wan electrick-Candle that creates the Effekt, not so much of Light, but of a
SPECTRE in the Room

MEERKAT n.

insectivorous Afric Rodent now of greatest Reknown for the Sale of ASSURANCES
for Curricles & Carriages

MICROWAVE n.

infernal Cupboard that can raise a Fruit-Pie unto the Temperature of a
Blacksmith's FORGE

NACHO n.

triangulat'd Spanish Biscuit, flavour'd as a Footman's SHOE

NON-DOMICILED adj.

preferring the Civilisation of England, but not the exchequer that does pay for
it.

OLIGARCH n.

mystery Muscovite Trafficker, once grown rich 'pon Oil from the ground, now
grown leathern 'pon Oil for the SUN-TAN

ORGANIC adj.

most esteem'd Designation of Food-stufs; untouch'd by the base Hand of
Industrie, yet riddl'd with noble WORMS PIZZA n.

Italianate open-fac'd Cheese-Pie, customarily serv'd by a Street-Urchin from a
Pallet strapp'd to a wheel'd Scooter

POLO n.

game of Heroism and Horsemanship, watch'd by Strumpets with pink Wine and orange
LEGS

RECYCLING BIN n.

Wishing-Well in which Persons do propel their Waste in ardent Hope of
Santifickation

REPLACEMENT BUS SERVICE n.

irksome Weekend Conveyance: one pays for Pegasus but rides a raddl'd Mare with
one Hoof in the Glue-Pot

SALE n.

Economick Bubble wherein the Common Man buys what he does not NEED at a Price
the Shop-Keeper can not AFFORD. Shopping is one Realm of Human Endeavour in
which the Englishman does excel.

SMOOTHIE n.

pious Broth of crush'd fruit, for those whose Constitutions can take no Ale &
whose Hearts can take no PLEASURE

SNOWBOARDING n.

Extension of the Pirate's cruel Art, whereby a ragged Cabin-Boy is strapped to a
Plank and push'd down a Mountain

STATELY HOME n.

Sarcophagus to which the Masses come to venerate the Aristokracy thro' the
Eating of Scones

TOUGH CHOICES n.

political Decisions so arduous that they must be tak'n AFTER th'Election

TOP GEAR n.

Mister Jez. CLARKSON's Gaggle of Big-hair'd, billow-blous'd BULLIES, set in a
Wharf of DULLARDS, all covetous of CARRIAGES

TWITTER n.

endless Tract of the present Tense where Men do recount their Breakfasts, voice
liberal OUTRAGE & agree with Mister Stephen FRY

TURKEY TWIZZLERS n.

Poultry Truncheon, possess'd of scant nutritional Value yet great entertainment
Value for it so irks Jamie OLIVER

UKIP n.

Cabal of Clubmen who vow'd to free themselves of European Dominance whilst under
the influence of Dutchmen's GIN & Frenchman's BRANDY

UNIVERSITY n.

Seat of Learning at which Youths do prepare for adult Life by pretending to Work
& amassing colossal DEBT

VEGANISM n.

impossibly drab Penance, renouncing all Flesh, Fowl, Fish, Milk, Eggs, Honey &,
withal all human Pleasure

WEDDING LIST n.

Ransom Note that does set the Price of Friendship at one Sauce-Pan, two Down
Pillows or six Glasses

THE WIRE n.

acclaim'd Acting Troupe of the Citizenry of Baltimore, Maryland; the first
Colonie to have both learn'd & abandon'd ENGLISH

X FACTOR n.

Saturday ruin'd by Tear-stain'd Orphan-Protector Mister Louis WALSH & his
Retinue of singing URCHINS

YELLOW PAGES n.

gazette that allows senescent Drudge Mister J R HARTLEY to track down his
antient Tomes YUMMY MUMMY n.

hateful Term of barb'd Praise for a Woman who has borne Children yet not become
a CRONE

ZOO n.

Park at which the middling Sort may see a Panda, adopt a Monkey or placate a
Child.

To order Dr Johnson's Dictionary Of Modern Life (Square Peg, £9.99) with free UK
delivery send a PO or cheque payable to Express Bookshop to: Modern Life Offer,
PO Box 200, Falmouth TR11 4WJ, call 0871 988 8367 (10p/min from BT landlines) or
visit www.expressbookshop.com

LOAD-DATE: August 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From top left clockwise: twizzler, meerkat, Katona, Edmonds, Johnson,
Doherty and Dalek

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 26, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

DR JOHNSON LIVES AGAIN

BYLINE: TOM MORTON

SECTION: FEATURES; 13

LENGTH: 1126  words


The great lexicographer Samuel Johnson published his Dictionary Of The English
Language in 1755. But if he were to return to Britain in the 21st century what
would the witty old curmudgeon make of our world of Twitter and pizzas? A new
book by latter-day Dr Johnson TOM MORTON reveals all. Here we publish an extract

AIRPORT LOUNGE n.

parody of a Sitting Room or Mme POMPADOUR's Salon; oft a Hive for Dullards clad
in Mister LEVI's Docker Pantaloons

ALTON TOWERS n.

purgatory in Staffordshire: Man is condemn'd to stand in Line with his grimmest
Fellows awaiting Fates of Food or Propulsion

BARBECUE n.

Englishman's Summer Repast, compos'd in equal Parts of cann'd Ale, Charcoal and
RAIN-WATER BLOG n.

electronick Diary unto which earnest Fools do commit their innermost Thoughts,
safe that no Man shall ever read them

BRAZILIAN adj.

to be shorn athwart the Nethers & Privy-Piece, a common Agony of the fashionable

CHATTERING CLASSES n.

polite Opinion, vest'd with mythickal Power, as if Gentlefolk steer'd the Ship
of State 'twixt Slices of Carrot-Cake

CHICK LIT adj.

Fiction of Slatterns accurs'd with two Lodgings, three Paid Employments, four
Consorts & one ardent intent to have it all

CONFERENCE CALL n.

Mechanickal Impossibility wherein a Fool attempts to be closer to his Fellows by
shouting into a BARREL

CROCS n.

Idiot-Badge for the FEET

DALEK n.

ironmonger'd Hobgoblin that imperils all CREATION for up to five-and-forty
Minutes at a TIME

DEAL OR NO DEAL n.

Point-Beard'd Goblin Noel Edmonds' Charade, treating random Order as MAGICK &
People as POLTROONS

DEODORANT n.

Miasma that, when apply'd underarm in sufficient Depth, is held by Primitives &
English Youths to convey Irresistibility

DOHERTY, PETE

callow Waif who does battle 'gainst the twin Forces of Opium & the Magistrate
with merely a Lute & a Poetry-Book

EASTENDERS n.

Troupe of fabrickated CockneyOiks who do parade their Woes before the Publick
with the Regularity of the Clock

EXAM n.

a blunt test of Aptitude, in which three Years of IGNORANCE is cramm'd in to
three Hours of SILENCE

FLATSCREEN adj.

most desir'd Format of idiotLantern; a grand Portrait-Frame for Households
devoid of all ART

GATWICK n.

Godforsaken Port of Embarkation that claims to be Part of London yet is found in
the coastal County of SUSSEX

GCSE n.

Exam ritual where the Results show GENIUS, the Political Commentators show
Spoon-fed MILKSOPS & the News-Papers show Comely Maidens

HEALTH & SAFETY n. adj.

canting legalistick NANNY, forewarning a dumb cow-like Publick that Coffee be
HOT & that Nuts may contain NUTS

HOTEL n.

Inn at which a Traveller may avail himself of such Necessities as an electronick
Britches-Press & a Lilliputin Tea-Kettle

IPHONE n.

Mister JOBS' Pocket-Trinket, which can perform all domestick Tasks save steering
a Stage-Coach or ridding a Periwig of BEETLES

IKEA n.

domestick Valhalla in which men do pace great Halls for Eternity in Search of
Feasting-Tables, each nam'd Bjorn, Olaf, & c

JUNGLE n.

antipodean Forest us'd by England as a penal colony for Bedlamies & pendulous
Mummers; out of which a Celebrity may be GOT

KATONA adj.

simultaneously to be beset by all possible Travails of moral life

LEGO n.

Norsemen's CONSPIRACY of fiendish plasticked Brickwork designed to keep
England's Infants in SERVITUDE

LOW-ENERGY BULB n.

wan electrick-Candle that creates the Effekt, not so much of Light, but of a
SPECTRE in the Room

MEERKAT n.

insectivorous Afric Rodent now of greatest Reknown for the Sale of ASSURANCES
for Curricles & Carriages

MICROWAVE n.

infernal Cupboard that can raise a Fruit-Pie unto the Temperature of a
Blacksmith's FORGE

NACHO n.

triangulat'd Spanish Biscuit, flavour'd as a Footman's SHOE

NON-DOMICILED adj.

preferring the Civilisation of England, but not the exchequer that does pay for
it.

OLIGARCH n.

mystery Muscovite Trafficker, once grown rich 'pon Oil from the ground, now
grown leathern 'pon Oil for the SUN-TAN

ORGANIC adj.

most esteem'd Designation of Food-stufs; untouch'd by the base Hand of
Industrie, yet riddl'd with noble WORMS

PIZZA n.

Italianate open-fac'd Cheese-Pie, customarily serv'd by a StreetUrchin from a
Pallet strapp'd to a wheel'd Scooter

POLO n.

game of Heroism and Horsemanship, watch'd by Strumpets with pink Wine and orange
LEGS

RECYCLING BIN n.

Wishing-Well in which Persons do propel their Waste in ardent Hope of
Santifickation

REPLACEMENT BUS SERVICE n.

irksome Weekend Conveyance: one pays for Pegasus but rides a raddl'd Mare with
one Hoof in the Glue-Pot

SALE n.

Economick Bubble wherein the Common Man buys what he does not NEED at a Price
the ShopKeeper can not AFFORD.

Shopping is one Realm of Human Endeavour in which the Englishman does excel.

SMOOTHIE n.

pious Broth of crush'd fruit, for those whose Constitutions can take no Ale &
whose Hearts can take no PLEASURE

SNOWBOARDING n.

Extension of the Pirate's cruel Art, whereby a ragged Cabin-Boy is strapped to a
Plank and push'd down a Mountain

STATELY HOME n.

Sarcophagus to which the Masses come to venerate the Aristokracy thro' the
Eating of Scones

TOUGH CHOICES n.

political Decisions so arduous that they must be tak'n AFTER th'Election

TOP GEAR n.

Mister Jez. CLARKSON's Gaggle of Big-hair'd, billow-blous'd BULLIES, set in a
Wharf of DULLARDS, all covetous of CARRIAGES

TWITTER n.

endless Tract of the present Tense where Men do recount their Breakfasts, voice
liberal OUTRAGE & agree with Mister Stephen FRY

TURKEY TWIZZLERS n.

Poultry Truncheon, possess'd of scant nutritional Value yet great entertainment
Value for it so irks Jamie OLIVER

UKIP n.

Cabal of Clubmen who vow'd to free themselves of European Dominance whilst under
the influence of Dutchmen's GIN & Frenchman's BRANDY

UNIVERSITY n.

Seat of Learning at which Youths do prepare for adult Life by pretending to Work
& amassing colossal DEBT

VEGANISM n.

impossibly drab Penance, renouncing all Flesh, Fowl, Fish, Milk, Eggs, Honey &,
withal all human Pleasure

WEDDING LIST n.

Ransom Note that does set the Price of Friendship at one SaucePan, two Down
Pillows or six Glasses

THE WIRE n.

acclaim'd Acting Troupe of the Citizenry of Baltimore, Maryland;

the first Colonie to have both learn'd & abandon'd ENGLISH

X FACTOR n.

Saturday ruin'd by Tear-stain'd Orphan-Protector Mister Louis WALSH & his
Retinue of singing URCHINS

YELLOW PAGES n.

gazette that allows senescent Drudge Mister J R HARTLEY to track down his
antient Tomes

YUMMY MUMMY n.

hateful Term of barb'd Praise for a Woman who has borne Children yet not become
a CRONE

ZOO n.

Park at which the middling Sort may see a Panda, adopt a Monkey or placate a
Child.

To order Dr Johnson's Dictionary Of Modern Life (Square Peg, GBP 9.99) with free
UK delivery send a PO or cheque payable to Express Bookshop to: Modern Life
Offer, PO Box 200, Falmouth TR11 4WJ, call 0871 988 8367 (10p/min from BT
landlines) or visit www.expressbookshop.com

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: From top left clockwise: twizzler, meerkat, Katona, Edmonds, Johnson,
Doherty and Dalek
Pictures: REX, GOFFPHOTOS.COM, CAPITAL, BBC, FRESH FOOD IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday

England should look to a future without Mikel Arteta and Paul Scholes

BYLINE: Paul Wilsonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1244 words

ABSTRACT

Paul Wilson: Fabio Capello promised new faces - but Theo Walcott and Adam
Johnson should be included for the Euro 2012 qualifiers

FULL TEXT

Nothing was more certain, after the events and non-events of England's summer in
South Africa, than the fact that Theo Walcott would enjoy a blistering start to
the domestic season to make Fabio Capello look even more of a chump for leaving
him at home. Alan Hansen's reservations notwithstanding, and allowing for that
fact that Walcott's hat-trick on Saturday came against Blackpool, this has
already started to happen.

Adam Johnson is another young player who looks ready to make a similar point. If
he can hold his own at Manchester City he could probably have fitted into
England's World Cup plans, because there is no doubt where competition is
strongest and standards highest. Paul Scholes is not a young player, he just
seems that way, and even as debate rages about whether he should be included in
Capello's plans even now, he has also made a strong start to the season. The
same cannot be said of Mikel Arteta, though more by dint of what he has said
than what he has done in Everton's unexpectedly flat start to the season, the
uncapped Spanish player has managed to get everyone talking about the
possibility of an England call-up.

All four of the above players could conceivably be in the squad Capello names
this weekend for the opening games in Euro 2012 qualifying, but should they be?
Capello has promised new faces but does Scholes really count as that? Does the
determination to unearth fresh talent mean Spain's surplus players or others
from around the world are fair game for rebranding as English? To some extent
Capello is damned if he does and damned if he doesn't with his next squad. There
will be groans if he sticks to the same personnel who underperformed in South
Africa, yet he can expect an outcry if he goes beyond the national borders or
manages to talk Scholes out of retirement four months too late.

Four months. How time flies. Back in May I remember suggesting that Capello's
omission of Johnson from his World Cup squad was possibly a mistake, only to be
assailed on the blog threads by posters insisting that the Italian knew what he
was doing, that England finally had a winner in charge and he could do no wrong,
and that more or less all we had to do in the summer was turn up or tune in and
watch the world's greatest manager give a masterclass in how to get the best
from his players.

Four months and quite a few public-relations fiascos later, Capello will
probably now be criticised whatever squad he picks. For the record, however, and
for the sake of consistency (mine, not his) I reckon he should go with Johnson
and Walcott and leave Scholes and Arteta alone. Here's why ...

Johnson

Capello had tracked him through his Middlesbrough time and promoted him once he
joined Manchester City, only to lose his nerve at the end, ostensibly (well,
this is what he told us a month ago) because Johnson was so excited about
playing a friendly at Wembley he couldn't get his breath. Yet, though new to the
Premier League scene, Johnson has just turned 23. Even at age 22 he could
probably have been trusted in South Africa, and he could possibly have
contributed a sight more than Aaron Lennon. Capello makes him sound like a
nervous boy but he looks pretty assured playing for his club. Perhaps this was
an omission that said more about a conservative coach than an unproven but
promising player.

Walcott

Capello was arguably right not to take him to South Africa, since his form
towards the end of last season was pretty dreadful and he was apparently
carrying an injury. On the other hand, genuine pace and youthful freshness would
not have gone amiss in England's World Cup campaign, and after talking Jamie
Carragher out of retirement and bemoaning the fact that Scholes would not change
his mind, Capello seemed to want it both ways when he complained on his return
home that the team was too tired to accomplish anything. If England played like
old men, there was possibly a reason for that. Walcott will really need to weigh
in with a few more goals against better teams than Blackpool before Hansen's
reiteration of Chris Waddle's original observation that he lacks a football
brain can be properly denied, though to an extent it is an academic side issue.
Walcott has already proved, for England and for Arsenal, that he can help win
matches. That should be enough for England to be going on with.

Scholes

Too old and too retired. Scholes may well have felt like giving the World Cup
one last whirl in South Africa, though had his heart really been in it he would
not have minded the approach coming from one of Capello's assistants rather than
the main man. Does anyone else think it slightly pathetic of Scholes to claim,
once England were in South Africa without him, that he might have changed his
mind had he been approached earlier, or in a different way? There is no doubt
that Scholes at his best would, even now, be a useful addition to the England
team, though it is tempting to wonder whether it would be fair to leave out,
say, James Milner or Frank Lampard to make room. The real question, however, is
not how well Scholes is playing at the minute. The question is how much he would
fancy the European Championship in Poland and Ukraine, two years down the line,
at the age of 37. If Capello does not imagine he will be around for the finals
there is not a great deal of point picking him now. This time, more than any
other time, England need to find a team and a way of playing that will take them
all the way through qualifying and can be reproduced in the tournament.

Arteta

Surely a no-no. I do not mean that he does not deserve to be picked or that his
qualifications are anything other than above board, but England should think
long and carefully before going down this line. At the moment international
football means something. It means that you play for your country, not someone
else's. Unfortunately, it also means England are rubbish most of the time while
countries such as Spain and Brazil have talent coming out of their ears, but
that's the way it is. And that is the way it should stay. I know Arteta has
never played for Spain, and I know he has lived in England the required number
of years, but while exceptions on residential qualifications might be made for
people who switched countries as children, the only reason Arteta came to this
country in the first place was because of his football talent, an ability wholly
forged in Spain. It would be perfectly reasonable for Arteta's own children to
play for England, were he to stay in the country long enough, but for him to
play would be bending the rules for mere convenience.

People have all sorts of views on this type of thing, and doubtless I shall soon
be reading some of them, but personally I do not happen to believe that
maintaining a difference between international football and the cosmopolitan
free-for-all that club football has become makes one a paid up member of either
UKIP or the Gilbert and Sullivan Appreciation Society.

In this country especially, with our mostly foreign Premier League and our
wholly foreign England manager, we do not need our national team to take the
international route too. Have we no pride? There aren't many jobs around that
stipulate being English, and quite right too. But playing for England ought to
be one of them. Otherwise what's the point?

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Court need not forfeit all invalid donation;
Law Report

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 59

LENGTH: 1170 words


Supreme Court Published August 25, 2010 Regina (Electoral Commission) v
Westminster Magistrates Court, United Kingdom Independence Party intervening
Before Lord Phillips of Worth Matravers, Lord Rodger of Earlsferry, Lord Walker
of Gestingthorpe, Lord Brown of Eaton-under-Heywood, Lord Mance, Lord Kerr of
Tonaghmore and Lord Clarke of Stone-cum-Ebony Judgment July 29, 2010 In
forfeiture proceedings brought by the Electoral Commission against a political
party which had accepted an impermissible donation, the court had a
discretionary power to order partial forfeiture of the value of the donation
where in the circumstances it would be proportionate to do so.

The Supreme Court so held by a majority, Lord Rodger, Lord Walker and Lord Brown
dissenting, when allowing an appeal by the United Kingdom Independence Party
from the Court of Appeal (Lord Justice Waller, Lord Justice Goldring and Sir
Paul Kennedy) (The Times October 28, 2009; [2010] 2 WLR 873) allowing the
Electoral Commission's appeal from Mr Justice Walker ([2009] EWHC 78 (Admin))
and remitting its application for forfeiture of £349,216 to Westminster
Magistrates for reconsideration. The judge granted in part the commission's
claim for judicial review of the decision by Senior District Judge Workman at
Westminster, dated August 7, 2007, ordering forfeiture of £14,481 in respect of
a number of impermissible donations made by Mr Alan Bown to UKIP. The judge
quashed the senior district judge's decision and remitted the forfeiture
application.

Section 58(2) of the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000
provided that a donation received by a registered political party could not be
accepted from an individual donor who, at the time of the donation, was not on
the electoral register. Where a donation from an impermissible or unidentified
donor was retained by the party, section 58(2) provided that the court might
order forfeiture of an amount equal to the value of the donation.

Mr Patrick Lawrence, QC and Mr Can Yeginsu for UKIP; Mr Michael Beloff QC, and
Mr Jasbir Dhillon for the commission.

LORD PHILLIPS said there were two issues: (i) did section 58(2) confer on the
court a broad discretion whether to make a forfeiture order or was there a
strong presumption in favour of forfeiture; and (ii) whether the court, in
exercising its section 58(2) power to order forfeiture had to order forfeiture
of the total amount, or had it a discretion to order a lesser sum if it
considered that was appropriate.

His Lordship said that the primary object was to prevent donations from foreign
sources. Parliament, not following the recommendation of the Fifth Report of the
Committee on the Funding of Political Parties in the United Kingdom (1998) (Cm
4057), restricted permissible donors to those on an electoral register,
excluding those eligible to be put on one.

That change was made purely to provide a scheme for achieving the primary object
that was easy to apply and police and contained adequate sanctions for
non-compliance.

There were two distinct objects of the power to forfeit: first was the direct
prevention of the mischief the legislation was designed to prevent: the receipt
by a political party of foreign funding.

Under the Act a donor whose connection with the UK would entitle him to be on an
electoral register was rendered an impermissible donor simply because he was not
on the register. An unregistered donor might or might not be foreign. If he was
foreign, or unable to prove that he was not foreign, his donation was
intrinsically undesirable and, barring exceptional circumstances, should be
subject to automatic forfeiture in its entirety.

The second object was to provide a sanction against failure to comply with the
requirements of the Act that were designed to ensure that donations were not
received from an impermissible donor.

Since impermissible donations might or might not be foreign, the significance of
an individual impermissible donation might vary widely. At one extreme, it might
be a donation from a foreign source, accepted by the party in full knowledge of
its provenance.

At the other, it might be from an individual who was entitled to be registered,
had formerly been so, was believed to be so but through administrative error for
which he was not responsible, had been removed from the register at the time he
made his donation. Parliament plainly made the power to forfeit discretionary
with the intention that the court should discriminate between cases where
forfeiture was warranted and where it was not. It was natural to assume that
Parliament intended the court to consider whether forfeiture was a proportionate
response to the particular case. Where it was shown that a political party
accepted a donation from an impermissible source, there should be an initial
presumption in favour of forfeiture.

The onus should be on the party to show why it should not be forfeited.

A first step would be to show that it was not in fact a foreign donation; where
an individual was concerned it had to be shown that he was entitled to be on an
electoral register. If it could not be thus shown, forfeiture should normally
follow.

If it was shown that the donor was in a position to qualify as a permissible
donor by registering, the initial presumption in favour of forfeiture would be
rebutted. Then the onus lay on the party to explain how it was that the donation
came to be accepted.

If the donation was large, and if the power to forfeit was all or nothing,
significant shortcomings were likely to be required to make forfeiture a
proportionate response.

The language of section 58(2) suggested that there was only one amount that
could be forfeited. Normally, forfeiture related to a specific fund or right,
not part of one; but here "forfeit" was used in an unusual way and was more akin
to a fine.

The better interpretation was therefore to treat the power to order forfeiture
of an amount equal to the value of an impermissible donation as implicitly
including the power to order forfeiture of a lesser sum. Such an interpretation
was desirable to cope with the situation where the magistrates court was
persuaded the donor was not foreign.

In those circumstances, total forfeiture might be disproportionate and, if so it
should not be ordered, both under ordinary principles applicable to the
imposition of sanctions, and having regard to the requirements of article 1 of
the First Protocol to the European Convention on Human Rights, protecting
property rights.

The magistrates' court should have the power to make a partial forfeiture order
reflecting the particular facts. Section 58(2) was to be interpreted as
conferring that power. Here the forfeiture ordered by the senior district judge
adequately reflected the facts, and his order would be restored.

Lord Mance and Lord Kerr delivered concurring judgments and Lord Clarke agreed.
Lord Rodger and Lord Brown delivered dissenting judgments and Lord Walker agreed
with both.

Solicitors: Moreland & Co, Haringey; Treasury Solicitor.

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Beware AV, Nick. It might turn out to be a killer Peter Wilson;
THUNDERER

BYLINE: Peter Wilson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 446 words


Aplague of deadly flying foxes will probably not emerge as an important factor
in Britain's next general election. But there are still some potent lessons for
Britain from Australia's election, where those pesky fruit bats have been made a
national issue by Bob Katter, an independent MP who now shares the balance of
power in a hung Parliament.

Nick Clegg should certainly study Australia's Alternative Vote system, which he
hopes will replace first past the post next year. Saturday's result would have
been totally different if votes had been counted by the UK system rather than by
AV, which takes account of voters' second preferences. First past the post would
have produced a clear conservative victory.

With 76 seats needed for a majority, Labor seems set for 72, the conservative
coalition 73, the Greens one and independents four. But Labor owes eight seats
to the second preferences of Green voters, while the Green MP and one
independent, Andrew Wilkie, would have lost without AV. Under first past the
post, the result would have been 81 conservatives, 66 Labor and three rural
independents.

The important point is that AV not only changes results but also the behaviour
of voters and parties in ways that will not necessarily help the Lib Dems. Mr
Clegg is banking on winning lots of second preferences, but AV also encourages
voters to back smaller parties, such as the Greens. Instead of fearing a wasted
vote, one can choose Green first and Labor second, knowing that if the Green is
eliminated the vote will "flow" back to the mainstream candidate.

AV also formalises alliances between coalition parties, undermining the identity
of the smaller partner. Australia's rural National Party took another step
towards being absorbed by its sister party, the Liberals.

In the long term, AV nudges the big parties toward the centre. When the Tories
know that they will pick up most UKIP preferences, they will be free to compete
more vigorously for the centre ground. That is why Australia's main parties have
generally been more middle-of-the-road than their British counterparts.

That leaves less room for centrist parties such as the Lib Dems. It is no
coincidence that the new third force in Australia is the Greens, and before them
it was the hard-right One Nation. The one centrist party of recent decades, the
Democrats, effectively died on Saturday by winning only 0.6 per cent of the
vote.

It is not as dangerous as those killer fruit bats but Mr Clegg still might want
to think twice about embracing AV.

Peter Wilson edited The Australian Political Almanac and is Europe correspondent
of The Australian

The Lib Dems will suffer as big parties are nudged to the centre

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 25, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Parties must abandon the sordid dash for cash;
Put away the begging bowls: MPs waste too much time sucking up to rich donors

BYLINE: Alice Thomson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 777 words


Have you ever tried asking for money? It's excruciating. Even when you have swum
the Channel naked in January or canoed down the Amazon in a Tarzan suit for
charity, you feel like you are begging. You go round your friends, children's
schools and work with your sponsorship form, badgering away. Then when you have
to collect the money, they forget: it's more painful than pounding the
pavements.

But imagine fundraising for a political party. We are not talking about
neglected children or mangy donkeys, but sleek, well-fed MPs, and political
parties who may have frittered away our hard-earned cash or are trying to claw
it back with cuts.

No one gives money to a political party unless they expect something in return.
Which is exactly what they get. This week the Electoral Commission confirmed
that the last general election was the most expensive yet. A record £26.3
million was donated to 16 political parties in April, May and June, outstripping
the £20.6 million in the same period in 2005. The Tories secured the highest
level of donations, David Cameron attracting 626 gifts amounting to £12.3
million over the three-month period. Labour was not far behind, with 522
donations worth £10.8 million.

To raise this kind of money takes huge amounts of time, not just from nice girls
called Vanessa and Veronica in the fundraising teams but from senior party
members. If you are considering handing over half a million, you want to meet
David, you may even want him to meet your family or open your factory in India.
Big donors demand face time with the top tier of the Government and Shadow
Cabinet; they want a quiet drink with the Chancellor at No 11 or a chinwag with
the Foreign Secretary.

When Stuart Wheeler, the betting tycoon, decided to donate £5 million to the
Tory party in 2001, he strolled into William Hague's office, asked to see the
leader and wrote him out a cheque for the first part, £1 million, on the spot.
Father Christmas, as Mr Hague called him, promised there were no strings
attached. Yet Mr Wheeler's say was huge - he even called successfully for Iain
Duncan Smith to be sacked as leader - before he defected to UKIP.

Fundraising scandals have helped to undermine public trust in politics.

Labour's years in power were blighted by a succession of embarrassments, from
the early donation of £1 million by Bernie Ecclestone to the far more
wideranging cash-for-honours scandal. Even the Liberal Democrats took £2.4
million from Michael Brown, now a bankrupt on the run from the police. And the
Tories are having their own problems, losing their new treasurer, the £3 million
donor David Rowland, before he'd even started work, after a spate of negative
publicity about his business career.

But perhaps the most pernicious aspect of all this is that senior politicians
spend so much time around serious money. The Prime Minister can't say no to that
dinner party with the hedge fund manager because he might just offer his party
£500,000 after the foie gras soufflé. Tony Blair will skate over it in his
memoirs but Lord Levy introduced his tennis partner to some extremely rich men
in the hope of securing financial aid for the Labour Party. He and Cherie soon
got sucked into the world of private jets and yachts with basketball courts.

The coalition has made no difference. The parties are still frantically filling
their coffers. David Miliband has raised more than £200,000 for his own
leadership campaign, including two donations of £50,000 each. And Labour has to
suck up to the unions as well.

All this has to stop: America, which spent $1 billion on the last presidential
election, is not the role model. Our parties, as Sir Hayden Phillips proposed in
2007, need to spend far less rather than more. Overall, the parties could
certainly make cuts of 25 per cent, perhaps even 40 per cent, as the Chancellor
has in mind for departmental budgets.

Now that Britain has televised political debates they could scrap party
political broadcasts. Nor do they need to buy up billboard sites across the
country: if a poster is clever enough, it will be all over the web. Remember
"Fire up the Quattro" in all its guises? Another of Sir Hayden's suggestions -
abandoned after the parties failed to reach a consensus - is also worth
considering. Donations, including those from unions, should be capped at £50,000
to prevent any donor having too much influence.

Politicians need to agree on these reforms: I don't know one who looks forward
to an evening with his begging bowl. Once Labour's new leader is in place, this
is one change guaranteed to increase public trust in our democracy.

If you're handing over half a million you want to meet David

LOAD-DATE: August 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Lives at risk' as EU bans checks on foreign nurses

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 426 words


PATIENTS' lives have been put at risk by EU rules banning safety tests for
foreign nurses working in Britain, experts claimed yesterday.

Thousands of nurses from eastern Europe and other parts of the EU can now work
in the UK without language and competency checks because tests discriminate
against them, Brussels warned.

The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) had insisted that foreigners prove they
have worked at least 450 hours in the last three years or undergo a refresher
course.

But the organisation that regulates nursing in Britain has been forced to drop
the rules after pressure from the European Commission and the Department of
Health claiming it was breaking EU law on the "freedom of movement".

Now all nurses will need is a diploma from their country showing they are
qualified - with no checks on their medical skills or language abilities.

However, British nurses and those from outside the EU must still prove their
clinical skills are up to standard.

Last night patients' groups and others condemned Brussels red tape for putting
lives in danger.

UKIP health spokesman David Campbell Bannerman said: "People's health and in
some cases their very lives will be put at risk at the altar of being good
Europeans." Katherine Murphy, of the Patients Association, said: "It beggars
belief that patients are to be put at such obvious risk from EU legislation.

"The standards for nurses should be the same whether from the UK or abroad.
Anyone working for the NHS - nurse, doctor, other health care professional,
health care assistant - must be able to be understood by the patient and must
demonstrate they are safe to treat patients. This entire fiasco risks every
patient's safety."

Dr Peter Carter, chief executive and general secretary of the Royal College of
Nursing, said: "Patients need to know that the people looking after them have
up-to-date skills and are suitably trained and experienced, so the balance
between freedom of movement and patient safety must be maintained.

"Both regulators and employers need the right powers to ensure that nurses are
clinically up-to-date and competent."

The NMC added: "We are now issuing guidance to employers reminding them of their
responsibilities when vetting candidates and will produce new guidance for
nurses and midwives in the near future."

A European Commission spokeswoman said last night: "EU legislation does not
prevent the UK requiring continuous professional training for EU-trained nurses
who are already registered in the UK but do not possess recent working
experience." OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theatre can be highly pressurised but EU nurses' skills will not be
assessed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Uproar as Britain is told to pay millions more for Eurocrats to retire at 60

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 461 words


THE annual cost of pensions for thousands of European Union bureaucrats will
soar to £1.3billion over the next three years, secret figures revealed last
night.

British officials uncovered confidential documents detailing a growing black
hole in the EU civil service retirement fund.

European

Commission figures showed that UK taxpayers will be contributing £177million a
year towards Brussels pensions by 2013 - a 16 per cent increase.   Erupted

The documents estimated that the annual cost will double to £2billion by 2040,
with Britain's contribution soaring to £350million.

The cash funds pensions averaging £57,194 a year. Last night, fury erupted over
the cost at a time when the British pensions system is in crisis and the EU has
demanded that member states raise the retirement age to 70.

Emma Boon, of the Tax- Payers' Alliance, said: "It's unfair to saddle younger
taxpayers with these ticking timebomb pensions, especially as Britons will now
work longer and retire later."

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party in the European
Parliament, said: "This will be another millstone around our children's and
grandchildren's necks. These people can increase our future liabilities, without
having to suffer the consequences."

And Mats Persson, of the think-tank Open Europe,  said: "The EU's pension system
is unnecessarily generous, and completely out of step with demographic realities
and the austerity measures facing public sector workers across Europe.

"The UK government must push hard for reform." The documents, prepared last
year, said the average retirement age for EU civil servants was 60.

The average annual pension received by the 17,471 retired officials is £57,194,
while the highest ranking Eurocrats can get £102,000  a year. The document
estimates the overall cost will rise by 97 per cent over the next three decades
to around £2billion because of longer life expectancies.

British ministers are understood to be furious about the pension costs.

A Government spokesman said: "Pay and pensions in EU institutions must reflect
the very difficult decisions being made across Europe."

Expected

Earlier this year, an EC policy document warned that millions in Europe faced
having to work until 70 because state pensions are in danger of collapse.

An EC spokesman said: "We expect pensions bills to increase till 2046 after
which they are expected to decrease. EU officials contribute 11.3 per cent of
their salaries towards pensions,  which is higher than civil servants in member
states."

Earlier this year, it was revealed that more than 1,000 Eurocrats are paid more
than the Prime Minister's £142,000 annual salary.

OPINION: PAGE 12

'This is another millstone around the necks of our   children and grandchildren
'   -Euro MP Nigel Farage

LOAD-DATE: August 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Uproar as Britain is told to pay millions more for Eurocrats to retire at 60

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 441  words


THE annual cost of pensions for thousands of European Union bureaucrats will
soar to GBP 1.3billion over the next three years, secret figures revealed last
night.

British officials uncovered confidential documents detailing a growing black
hole in the EU civil service retirement fund.

European Commission figures showed that UK taxpayers will be contributing GBP
177million a year towards Brussels pensions by 2013 - a 16 per cent increase.

The documents estimated that the annual cost will double to GBP 2billion by
2040, with Britain's contribution soaring to GBP 350million.

The cash funds pensions averaging GBP 57,194 a year.

Last night, fury erupted over the cost at a time when the British pensions
system is in crisis and the EU has demanded that member states raise the
retirement age to 70.

Emma Boon, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It's unfair to saddle younger
taxpayers with these ticking timebomb pensions, especially as Britons will now
work longer and retire later."

Euro MP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party in the European
Parliament, said: "This will be another millstone around our children's and
grandchildren's necks. These people can increase our future liabilities, without
having to suffer the consequences."

And Mats Persson, of the think-tank Open Europe, said: "The EU's pension system
is unnecessarily generous, and completely out of step with demographic realities
and the austerity measures facing public sector workers across Europe.

"The UK government must push hard for reform."

The documents, prepared last year, said the average retirement age for EU civil
servants was 60.

The average annual pension received by the 17,471 retired officials is GBP
57,194, while the highest ranking Eurocrats can get GBP 102,000 a year. The
document estimates the overall cost will rise by 97 per cent over the next three
decades to around GBP 2billion because of longer life expectancies.

British ministers are understood to be furious about the pension costs.

A Government spokesman said: "Pay and pensions in EU institutions must reflect
the very difficult decisions being made across Europe."

Earlier this year, an EC policy document warned that millions in Europe faced
having to work until 70 because state pensions are in danger of collapse.

An EC spokesman said:

"We expect pensions bills to increase till 2046 after which they are expected to
decrease. EU officials contribute 11.3 per cent of their salaries towards
pensions, which is higher than civil servants in member states."

Earlier this year, it was revealed that more than 1,000 Eurocrats are paid more
than the Prime Minister's GBP 142,000 annual salary.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'Lives at risk' as EU bans checks on foreign nurses

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 423  words


PATIENTS' lives have been put at risk by EU rules banning safety tests for
foreign nurses working in Britain, experts claimed yesterday.

Thousands of nurses from eastern Europe and other parts of the EU can now work
in the UK without language and competency checks because tests discriminate
against them, Brussels warned.

The Nursing and Midwifery Council (NMC) had insisted that foreigners prove they
have worked at least 450 hours in the last three years or undergo a refresher
course.

But the organisation that regulates nursing in Britain has been forced to drop
the rules after pressure from the European Commission and the Department of
Health claiming it was breaking EU law on the "freedom of movement".

Now all nurses will need is a diploma from their country showing they are
qualified - with no checks on their medical skills or language abilities.

However, British nurses and those from outside the EU must still prove their
clinical skills are up to standard.

Last night patients' groups and others condemned Brussels red tape for putting
lives in danger.

UKIP health spokesman David Campbell Bannerman said: "People's health and in
some cases their very lives will be put at risk at the altar of being good
Europeans." Katherine Murphy, of the Patients Association, said: "It beggars
belief that patients are to be put at such obvious risk from EU legislation.

"The standards for nurses should be the same whether from the UK or abroad.
Anyone working for the NHS - nurse, doctor, other health care professional,
health care assistant - must be able to be understood by the patient and must
demonstrate they are safe to treat patients. This entire fiasco risks every
patient's safety."

Dr Peter Carter, chief executive and general secretary of the Royal College of
Nursing, said: "Patients need to know that the people looking after them have
up-to-date skills and are suitably trained and experienced, so the balance
between freedom of movement and patient safety must be maintained.

"Both regulators and employers need the right powers to ensure that nurses are
clinically up-to-date and competent."

The NMC added: "We are now issuing guidance to employers reminding them of their
responsibilities when vetting candidates and will produce new guidance for
nurses and midwives in the near future."

A European Commission spokeswoman said last night: "EU legislation does not
prevent the UK requiring continuous professional training for EU-trained nurses
who are already registered in the UK but do not possess recent working
experience."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Theatre can be highly pressurised but EU nurses' skills will not be
assessed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 24, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: For deniers, politics beats the science. Handouts beat both: From
Australia to the US, the rightwingers who claim climate change is a communist
conspiracy will grab green subsidies

BYLINE: George Monbiot

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 852 words


It was Australia's second climate change election. Climate change deposed the
former leaders of both main parties: Kevin Rudd (Labor) because his position was
too weak, Malcolm Turnbull (Liberal) because his was too strong. When Julia
Gillard, the new Labor leader, also flunked the issue, many of her supporters
defected to the Greens.

Labor's collapse began when the senate rejected Rudd's emissions trading scheme.
Faced with a choice of dissolving parliament and calling an election or dropping
the scheme, he chickened out and lost the confidence of the party. Gillard's
support began to slide when she proposed to defer climate change policy to a
citizen's assembly. Nearly 70% of the votes she lost went to the Greens.

Turnbull, like Rudd, was ousted over the emissions scheme, but six months
earlier. His support for it split the Liberal party, and just before the first
senate vote last December he was overthrown by Tony Abbott, who had told his
supporters that climate change "is absolute crap". If Abbott manages to form a
government, he will reverse the result of the 2007 election, in which the
Liberal party was defeated partly because it wouldn't act on climate change.

It's not difficult to see why this is a hot issue in Australia. The country has
been hammered by drought and bushfires. It has the highest carbon dioxide
emissions per person of any major economy outside the Arabian peninsula.
Australians pollute more than Americans, twice as much as people in the UK and
four times more than the Chinese. Most Australians want to change this, but the
coal industry keeps their politicians on a short leash. Like New Labour here,
Rudd and Gillard's administration was a government of flinchers. It has been
punished for appeasing industrial lobbyists and the rightwing press.

Australia provides yet more evidence that climate science divides people on
political lines. Abbott is no longer an outright denier, though he still
insists, in the teeth of the facts, that the world has cooled since 1997. Some
members of his party go further: Senator Nick Minchin maintains that "the whole
climate change issue is a leftwing conspiracy to deindustrialise the western
world". (He has also insisted that cigarettes are not addictive and the link
between passive smoking and illness can't be demonstrated). A recent poll
suggests that 38% of politicians in Abbott's coalition believe man-made global
warming is taking place, in comparison with 89% of Labor's people.

It's the same story everywhere. At a senatorial hustings in New Hampshire last
week, all six Republican candidates denied that man-made climate change is
taking place. Judging by its antics in the Senate and primary campaigns all over
the US, the party appears to be heading for a unanimous rejection of the
science. Vaclav Klaus, the ultra-neoliberal Czech president, asserts that
"global warming is a false myth and every serious person and scientist says so".
The hard-right UK Independence party may soon be led by Lord Monckton, the
craziest man in British politics, who claims that action on climate change is a
conspiracy to create a communist world government. The further to the right you
travel, the more likely you are to insist that man-made climate change isn't
happening. Denial has nothing to do with science and everything to do with
politics.

In the Telegraph, the Conservative Daniel Hannan tried to explain this
association. "When presented with a new discovery, we automatically try to press
it into our existing belief-system; if it doesn't fit, we question the discovery
before the belief-system." He's right, we all do this. It is also true that in
some respects an antagonism to climate science is consistent with rightwing -
especially neoliberal - politics. The philosophy is summarised by this chilling
statement from Vaclav Klaus. "Human wants are unlimited and should stay so."

But rightwing denial leads to perverse outcomes. In a desperate attempt to
appease deniers in his party, Turnbull proposed handing £70bn to industry to
soften the impacts of acting on climate change. Rudd's scheme, by contrast, was
more or less self-financing. Abbott intends to lavish subsidies on polluting
companies without demanding any corresponding obligations. State handouts?
Rights without responsibilities? When did these become conservative policies?

Since way back. In the US Republicans also favour green incentives for industry,
without caps or regulation. Worldwide, subsidies for fossil fuels are 12 times
greater than subsidies for renewable energy. Many of the most generous handouts
are awarded by rightwing governments (think of the money lavished on the oil
industry under George Bush).

Yes, climate change denial is about politics, but it's more pragmatic than
ideological. The politics have been shaped around the demands of industrial
lobby groups - which in many cases fund those who articulate them. Rightwingers
are making monkeys of themselves not just because their beliefs take precedence
over the evidence, but also because their interests often take precedence over
their beliefs.

guardian.co.uk/georgemonbiot

LOAD-DATE: August 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                August 22, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP leader lord Pearson [...]

BYLINE: Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 30 words


UKIP leader lord Pearson has quit the job claiming that he was "no good" at it.
what a refreshing change! let's hope the next labour leader follows suit and
does the decent thing too.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                August 22, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Now EU plans to make our roads pay as you go

BYLINE: James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 523 words


MOTORISTS could be squeezed for millions in crippling toll charges if EU chiefs
seize control of Britain's roads and motorways.

European Commission bureaucrats are plotting to merge the UK's main traffic
routes with those on the Continent to form a transport network under their
control.

The EC has already agreed to launch the European Electronic Toll Service (EETS)
on all current tolled roads in the EU, including the M6 and the stretch of M4
over the Severn Bridge.

It will enable drivers to use a single payment account and one piece of
electronic equipment by 2015.

By creating a Europe-wide road network, the EU will be clear to add tolls to
other motorways, perhaps even renaming them E-roads, as well as busy highways
and city centres.

Another directive has been presented to the European Parliament calling for road
pricing, or taxes, for lorries to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Next month
MEPs will debate whether to consider taxing cars for similar environmental
reasons.The Department for Transport has already announced the Government's
commitment to introducing a lorry road user charge.

Transport Secretary Philip Hammond ruled out a similar scheme for other vehicles
but many believe he will be overruled by the EU.

All transport matters in the European Parliament are decided by majority voting.
If member states of UK according All transport matters in the European
Parliament are decided by majority voting. If member states agree to one
combined road network for environmental reasons or encouraging the single
market, the UK will be pressured to join. The DfT announced a public
consultation on the plans, part of the Trans-European Transport Network, on
August 2 while Parliament was in recess. There have been questions over why the
consultation period is so short, with a September 10 deadline just four days
after the Commons returns.

Furious MPs and transport watchdogs last night demanded the Government keep
control of its road network at all costs. Mike Nattrass, UKIP transport
spokesman and a member of the EU's Transport and Tourism Committee, said:
"Motorists avoid the M6 toll and use other roads to avoid the expensive toll
charges, so where is the common sense in the EU's plans?

"The EU has no right to interfere with our history and traditions by changing
the name of our roads."

Cash from the EETS and other money-spinning schemes will be ploughed into the
EU's controversial Galileo satellite navigation programme.Eurocrats want to
track motorists' positions and mileage to calculate their toll charges.

Brian Mooney, of the Association of British Drivers, said: "The Government knows
nearly two million signed an online petition against road pricing and I can't
see it wanting the fast lane to unpopularity."

The DfT said last night: "The Trans-European Transport Network allows the UK to
bid for funding for transport projects but does not give the EU any control over
UK roads.

"We have ruled out charging for existing roads and any decisions on this matter
are for the UK Government to make."

OPINION: PAGE 36

Number cr unching... Total mileage of motorways, according to Department of
Transport 2,201.88

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                August 22, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Now the EU wants to put tolls on our roads

BYLINE: James Fielding, Ben Borland

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 328 words


EU CHIEFS are plotting to seize control of Britain's roads and squeeze millions
of pounds out of motorists.

Bureaucrats at the European Commission (EC) want to merge the UK's main traffic
routes with those on the continent to form a transport network under their
control.

If Brussels wins it could see the introduction of tolls in city centres and on
motorways, which could be renamed E-roads.

Control over roads in Scotland is devolved and Transport Minister Stewart
Stevenson last night vowed to oppose any EU power grab. But, if Westminster is
forced to defer to Brussels, Holyrood would have little choice but to follow
suit.

EC officials are preparing a single Europe-wide payment service for all tolled
roads by 2015. Another directive calls for additional taxes on lorries in a bid
to cut CO2 emissions.

Next month, MEPs will debate whether to consider taxing cars for the same
environmental reasons.

Furious politicians and transport watchdogs last night demanded the Coalition
Government keep control of Britain's road network at all costs.

Mike Nattrass, UKIP's Transport spokesman and a member of the EU's Transport and
Tourism Committee said: "The EU wants to extend the toll motorways network under
the European Electronic Toll Service (EETS) Directive despite the fact the
under-utilised M6 Toll has proved to be a white elephant."

Brian Mooney, from the Association of British Drivers, added: "The devil is in
the detail of the various EU proposals. As our veto on transport measures
appears to have been lost, the Government needs to provide assurances that we
cannot be dragged into a road pricing scheme against our wishes."

A spokesman for Stewart Stevenson said: "This sounds like a silly idea. The
Scottish Government would oppose any plans to devolve Scotland's motorways and
trunk roads from Edinburgh to the EU.

"The SNP Government has abolished tolls on Scottish bridges and would not
support any EU plans to introduce tolls on motorways."

OPINION: PAGE 36

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VOW: Stewart Stevenson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 22, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

News quiz

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 160 words


1 What excuse did the England cricketer Graeme Swann, pictured, give when
arrested for drink-driving? 2 Two Tone, whose death was reported last week, was
Britain's largest recorded what? 3 Bill Millin, who died last week aged 88, was
celebrated for his unusual bravery during the D-Day landings. What did he do? 4
Which area is the second-homes capital of England? 5 What reason did Lord
Pearson of Rannoch give for stepping down as leader of UKIP? 6 In a survey of
economists and social policy experts, which country was named as the best in the
world? 7 Where was Britain placed in the same survey? 8 Where did passengers on
Sunday's sleeper train from Barcelona to Milan wake up on Monday morning? 9
According to a study by the Chartered Management Institute (no, wake up), when
will women have equal pay with men? 10 Top Gear's The Stig, who is locked in a
legal battle with the BBC about his autobiography, gets his name from new boys
at which private school?

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 22, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Leader 'no good';
Holiday chaos and the invasion of the giant rats ; TOP STORIES FROM THE UK

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 104 words


Leader 'no good' Politics The UK Independence party leader, Lord Pearson of
Rannoch, is to stand down after less than a year, admitting that he was "not
much good". The former Tory peer said his party "deserved a better politician to
lead it".

Among Pearson's recent gaffes was his admission during a BBC election interview
that he had not read all of his party's manifesto.

Nigel Farage, who preceded Pearson as UKIP leader, may step into the fray.

Despite suffering serious injuries in a plane crash in May on the day of the
general election, Farage said he is thinking about whether he is "strong enough
to take the job on".

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 22, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

I say - anyone for a spot of bashing those Brussels chaps?;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 81 words


Years ago, people dressed in jackets like this were constantly bursting through
french windows to see if anybody fancied a game of tennis. It was a real public
menace. Now they've all gone into politics.

This is Lord Monckton, a former adviser to Margaret Thatcher and prominent
climate change sceptic, who is fancied in some quarters to be the UK
Independence party's next leader.

If he gets the job, those french windows will have to go for a start - replaced
by good, solid British windows.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: MURDO MACLEOD

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 22, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Leader 'no good';
A fire at sea and the invasion of the giant rats ; TOP STORIES FROM THE UK AND
IRELAND

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 12,13

LENGTH: 102 words


Leader 'no good' Politics The UK Independence party leader, Lord Pearson of
Rannoch, is to stand down after less than a year, admitting that he was "not
much good". The former Tory peer said his party "deserved a better politician to
lead it".

Among Pearson's recent gaffes was his admission during a BBC election interview
that he had not read all of his party's manifesto.

Nigel Farage, who preceded Pearson as UKIP leader, may step in. Despite
suffering serious injuries in a plane crash in May on the day of the general
election, Farage said he is thinking about whether he is "strong enough to take
the job on".

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now EU plans to make our roads pay as you go

BYLINE: By James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 486  words


MOTORISTS could be squeezed for millions in crippling toll charges if EU chiefs
seize control of Britain's roads and motorways.

European Commission bureaucrats are plotting to merge the UK's main traffic
routes with those on the Continent to form a transport network under their
control.

The EC has already agreed to launch the European Electronic Toll Service (EETS)
on all current tolled roads in the EU, including the M6 and the stretch of M4
over the Severn Bridge.

It will enable drivers to use a single payment account and one piece of
electronic equipment by 2015.

By creating a Europe-wide road network, the EU will be clear to add tolls to
other motorways, perhaps even renaming them E-roads, as well as busy highways
and city centres.

Another directive has been presented to the European Parliament calling for road
pricing, or taxes, for lorries to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. Next month
MEPs will debate whether to consider taxing cars for similar environmental
reasons. The Department for Transport has already announced the Government's
commitment to introducing a lorry road user charge.

Transport Secretary Philip Hammond ruled out a similar scheme for other vehicles
but many believe he will be overruled by the EU.

All transport matters in the European Parliament are decided by majority voting.
If member states agree to one combined road network for environmental reasons or
encouraging the single market, the UK will be pressured to join.

The DfT announced a public consultation on the plans, part of the TransEuropean
Transport Network, on August 2 while Parliament was in recess. There have been
questions over why the consultation period is so short, with a September 10
deadline just four days after the Commons returns.

Furious MPs and transport watchdogs last night demanded the Government keep
control of its road network at all costs. Mike Nattrass, UKIP transport
spokesman and a member of the EU's Transport and Tourism Committee, said:
"Motorists avoid the M6 toll and use othe roads to avoid the expensive toll
charges, so where is the common sense in the EU's plans?

"The EU has no right to interfere with our history and traditions b y changing
the name of our roads."

Cash from the EETS and othe r money-spinning schemes will be ploughed into the
EU's controversial Galileo satellite navigation programme. Eurocrats want to
trac k motorists' positions and mileage to calculate their toll charges.

Brian Mooney, of the Association of British Drivers, said: "The Government knows
nearly two million signed an online petition against road pricing and I can't
see it wanting the fast lane to unpopularity."

The DfT said last night: "The Trans-European Transport Networ k allows the UK to
bid for funding fo r transport projects but does not give the EU any control
over UK roads.

"We have ruled out charging fo r existing roads and any decisions on this matter
are for the UK Government to make."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Now the EU wants to put tolls on our roads

BYLINE: By James Fielding and Ben Borland

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 325  words


EU CHIEFS are plotting to seize control of Britain's roads and squeeze millions
of pounds out of motorists.

Bureaucrats at the European Commission (EC) want to merge the UK's main traffic
routes with those on the continent to form a transport network under their
control.

If Brussels wins it could see the introduction of tolls in city centres and on
motorways, which could be renamed E-roads.

Control over roads in Scotland is devolved and Transport Minister Stewart
Stevenson last night vowed to oppose any EU power grab. But, if Westminster is
forced to defer to Brussels, Holyrood would have little choice but to follow
suit.

EC officials are preparing a single Europe-wide payment service for all tolled
roads by 2015. Another directive calls for additional taxes on lorries in a bid
to cut CO2 emissions.

Next month, MEPs will debate whether to consider taxing cars for the same
environmental reasons.

Furious politicians and transport watchdogs last night demanded the Coalition
Government keep control of Britain's road network at all costs.

Mike Nattrass, UKIP's Transport spokesman and a member of the EU's Transport and
Tourism Committee said: "The EU wants to extend the toll motorways network under
the European Electronic Toll Service (EETS) Directive despite the fact the
under-utilised M6 Toll has proved to be a white elephant."

Brian Mooney, from the Association of British Drivers, added: "The devil is in
the detail of the various EU proposals. As our veto on transport measures
appears to have been lost, the Government needs to provide assurances that we
cannot be dragged into a road pricing scheme against our wishes."

A spokesman for Stewart Stevenson said: "This sounds like a silly idea. The
Scottish Government would oppose any plans to devolve Scotland's motorways and
trunk roads from Edinburgh to the EU.

"The SNP Government has abolished tolls on Scottish bridges and would not
support any EU plans to introduce tolls on motorways."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VOW: Stewart Stevenson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 22, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Julia Hartley-Brewer

BYLINE: Julia Hartley-Brewer

SECTION: COLUMNS; 39

LENGTH: 30  words


UKIP leader Lord Pearson has quit the job claiming that he was "no good" at it.
What a refreshing change!

Let's hope the next Labour leader follows suit and does the decent thing too.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            August 21, 2010 Saturday

MURDERED IN A COUNTRY THAT HAS BETRAYED ITS REAL HEROES

LENGTH: 1417 words


PLATELL'S PEOPLE

AS THE Spitfire and Hurricane fighters flew over London yesterday to mark the
70th anniversary of the Battle of Britain, they stirred many memories of the
heroes, The Few, who changed the course of our history.

In Camberwell, South-East London, an unsung hero of World War II was also being
remembered

his devoted children, grandchildren and great- grandchildren. Alas, not just for
his selfless service during that war, but for the brutal way he was murdered.

Geoffrey Bacon volunteered for secret missions behind enemy lines and was a
driver for both Montgomery and Eisenhower. Yet the 90-year-old was murdered
returning to his modest flat in Camberwell; attacked from behind

a cowardly thug who took 640 and his bus pass before punching him to the ground
and locking the door behind him.

It now appears the killer may have been sleeping rough on the bench Mr Bacon had
dedicated to his sweetheart and wife Kitty, from whom he had been inseparable.

Mr Bacon s son Philip says his dad died of a broken heart, 11 weeks after
injuries sustained in the attack. And who could have blamed Mr Bacon if, in his
dying days, he wondered what he had fought for all those years ago?

Was the sacrifice worth it to produce a country with an educational underclass
so ignorant they wouldn t even know what the Battle of Britain was; so
ambivalent about their past they have no respect for those who secured our
future? A generation so drenched with a sense of victimhood and entitlement they
think mugging an old man is a legitimate way of making a fast buck?

The real tragedy is that you only have to pick up your local paper to see many
more victims like Mr Bacon, elderly targets brutalised in their own homes
because they make easy prey.

Victims like Catherine Grosstephan, 89, murdered in her home in Essex. Or
pensioner James Connor, 67, attacked from behind, robbed and left to die in the
street. Or Molly Morgan, 81, fatally mugged for her handbag as she walked home
at 8pm.

These were men and women who fought and worked and paid their taxes and
struggled and raised their children. Who took care of their families and had
pride in their communities. Unsung heroes all, betrayed at a time of their life
when they had a right to expect safety, dignity and respect.

As we remember the sacrifices of The Few, we should also say a prayer this
weekend for the many, like Mr Bacon, who fought for a country they must now
scarcely recognise.

WESTMINSTER NOTICEBOARD...

NICK CLEGG clocks up his first week as acting PM

vowing to end the system in which too many university students are middle class
. His observations might carry slightly more weight if Clegg himself wasn t
privately-educated, fantastically wealthy and part of a coalition stuffed to the
rafters with identikit middle-class graduates.

LaBOur leadership hopefuls struggling to differentiate themselves could take a
tip from the surprise challenger in the aussie elections, conservati ve l eader
tony abbott. the man who came from nowhere Down under got into his Speedos,
earned the title Budgie Smuggler and is now neck-and-neck with Prime Minister
Julia Gillard. time for the Mili-band brothers to don matching red Speedos?

On second thoughts, let s give it a miss.

TOnY BLAIr S 65 million gift from the proceeds of his book to the royal British
Legion will be used to build a new centre to rehabilitate troops injured in Iraq
and Afghanistan. Some have accused him of handing out blood money. But surely
the real disgrace is that our war-mongering PM never properly funded forces
rehab centres in the first place, leaving them to rely on charity.

I aDMIre uKIP s former leader Lord Pearson for being honest about his failings.
this week Pearson resigned, saying uKIP deserves a better politician than me. I
have learnt I am not much good at party politics . If all our politicians were
possessed of such can-dour, half the Cabinet would resign tomorrow.

THErE S been the usual outcry from the Human rights mob over Ken Clarke s plans
to cut legal aid for asylum seekers and the gravy train of lawyers who accompany
them. So here s a few sobering statistics. Spending on legal aid in France is 63
per head of population; in Germany it s 65 a head. And in England and Wales? A
shocking 638. Surely it s time to consider the human rights of the citizens
funding these often-fraudulent proceedings.

LAWS WE SHOULD NOT HAVE ADOPTED

BrITAIn S last Catholic adoption agency has been forced to close its doors after
half a century, due to Harriet Harman s equality laws. Under the new
legislation, they would have been obliged to place children with gay couples as
well as straight, against the teachings of their faith.

We all know the Catholic Church does not have an unblemished record when it
comes to caring for children. But there can be no doubt that these agencies
excelled in finding homes for the most problematic, unplaceable children in our
society.

Together they found loving homes for around 250 children a year about half of
all children adopted in the UK.

I hope Ms Harman is proud of herself.

BRAND AWARENESS

Katy Perry and russell Brand (right) have daily relationship counselling
sessions

phone in preparation for their forthcoming marriage. he s in new york filming
and she s on tour in europe and australia. But they have a conference call with
their therapist talking things over and making their bond as tight as possible .

When you re about to marry a serial, self-confessed sex addict, I d have thought
spending some time in the same country as your fiance might be the best therapy.

LOOK AT HER TALENT!

MOve over Jennifer Lopez. there can have been no more perfect sight this week
than Kelly Brook s bottom as she toured the red carpets, of the world promoting
her new film Piranha 3D. (In which the killer fish seem to have eaten most of
her clothing). yet the 30-year-old goddess (left) is keen to remind us of her
seriousness as an actress. It doesn t make me any less important than anyone
else in the movie just because I m in a bikini, she says. time for a
heart-to-heart with Pamela anderson, love.

HOSTAGE TO CHARITY

THE Pakistani president Asif Ali Zardari demands f urther relief for his country
s flood victims warning (or was it threatening?) that unless he est ave even
more millions than have already been pledged, then we would become the victims
of Pakistani-bred Islamic terrorism. After Zardari s i nterventi on, Britain
gave 633 million more. And there was me thinking the Government never gave in to
terrorist threats.

With this country s track record, Mr Zardari , we don t need a gun held to our
head to do the right thing.

FERN'S BANNED

ryvIta has finally ditched Fern Britton as the 6200,000-a-year face of its diet
crispbread, two years after she was caught lying about her miraculous healthy
eating weight loss that was actually down to having a gastric band fitted. a
spokesman said customers weren t switching on to Fern s message. Perhaps they d
have had better luck if they d given away a free elastic band with every packet.

Callie RogeRs won 62 million on the lottery aged 16. she is now 22 and
penniless, having wasted her millions, is plagued

depression, has attempted suicide three times, has had breast implants and is a
lousy mum. she now wants to become a counsellor and says: after ll i ve ndured,
i hink i ave a lot to offer. Who to? Fergie?

On the morning of the 70th anniversary of Winston Churchill s so much owed

so many to so few speech, the BBC s today programme asks: Was it a defining
moment of the war or just a folk myth? Listening to the extraordinary tales of
courage, told so modestly

the surviving pilots whom today interviewed earlier in the week, perhaps a more
pertinent question would be: Why does the BBC seem so determined to insult true
heroes?

SArAH BrOWn famously saved her beleaguered husband s skin, twice pleading his
case at the Labour Party conference. now, it turns out Gordon can t even hit the
lecture circuit without his wife to help. She charges 615,000 to assist his
speeches, for which the former PM s fee is 664,000. Oh dear, only months out of
office and already they re doing a Paul Daniels and Debbie McGee act. It ll be
panto at Christmas next.

PRinCe ChaRles urges us all to forgo the bath and take short showers to save
water and energy. it is advice we subjects would happily embrace if we did not
suspect the Prince has his army of flunkies secretly draw seven baths
simultaneously each day to make sure his royal derriere is only immersed in one
of the perfect temperature.

LOAD-DATE: August 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 21, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage must take the reins

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 77 words


LORD Pearson of Rannoch did sterling work in steering UKIP to nearly a million
votes in the general election. Now he is quitting saying he is not cut out to be
a party leader and former leader Nigel Farage is in two minds about whether to
stand again. Everyone who wishes UKIP well must hope he does so. The gap in
British politics for a party of the respectable Right is bigger than ever and
the engaging Farage is far and away the party's best public performer.

LOAD-DATE: August 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 21, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Farage must take the reins;
LEADER

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: LEADER; 17

LENGTH: 77  words


LORD Pearson of Rannoch did sterling work in steering UKIP to nearly a million
votes in the general election. Now he is quitting saying he is not cut out to be
a party leader and former leader Nigel Farage is in two minds about whether to
stand again. Everyone who wishes UKIP well must hope he does so. The gap in
British politics for a party of the respectable Right is bigger than ever and
the engaging Farage is far and away the party's best public performer.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 21, 2010 Saturday

Saturday: This week: People: Lost leader: Lord Pearson

BYLINE: Lucy Mangan

SECTION: GUARDIAN SATURDAY COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 126 words


Nothing in his leadership of the UK Independence Party became him like the
leaving of it.

In a virtually unprecedented move among modern politicians of any stripe,
Pearson employed honesty in explaining his reasons for stepping down. The party
"deserved someone better" to put the case for leaving the European Union, he
said. While fellow Ukip members struggled to understand this strange new
register, he added that he had "learned that I am not much good at party
politics, which I do not enjoy".

Former leader Nigel Farage indicated that he would consider standing again if he
had recovered sufficiently from his plane crash injuries by September. It would
be wrong to hope that . . . yes, it would. So let's just leave it there.
Whatever will be, will be.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

When is a swede a turnip? When it's in a Cornish pasty, say Brussels bureaucrats

BYLINE: Martin Beckford

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 252 words


THEIR pronouncements on the acceptable curvature of cucumbers and bananas have
already proved unpalatable. Now the infamous bureaucrats of Brussels have made
another baffling judgment on the nature of food, ruling that a swede can be
called a turnip, when it's in a Cornish pasty.

The European Commission is drawing up guidelines on the permitted ingredients of
the West Country staple, so that it can be given the same protected status as
other regional specialities such as Melton Mowbray pork pies.

It has decreed that only minced or diced beef, sliced potato, onion and swede
can fill the pasties. However, the Cornish are unique in referring to swede as
turnip, despite distinct differences. The former is white with a sharp taste
while the latter is orange with a more earthy flavour. Because of this
linguistic quirk, the regulations have been amended to allow either term to go
on the label, even though only swede is allowed.

It means that Cornish pasties could be advertised as containing turnip, but
would break the rules if they actually contained it. William Dartmouth, a Ukip
MEP for the South West, said: "It goes to prove that anyone who tries to
micromanage the rich heritage of this country is asking for trouble."

Albena Dimitrova-Borisova, a European Commission spokesman, said: "It will be
for the control authorities in the UK to put in place the necessary enforcement,
ensuring the product is produced in conformity with the specification, not least
for the ingredients."

Editorial Comment: Page 23

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The true mark of being successful is knowing how to lose one's job

BYLINE: Tracy Corrigan

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 794 words


THE economic climate is grim and the tricky business of securing a job of any
description is becoming even more difficult. Anyone lucky enough to be in even
moderately lucrative employment must, surely, be keen to hang on in there.

But maybe that's the sort of wimpish thinking that comes with having bills to
pay and mouths - mainly my own - to feed. If I discover that a colleague earns
more than I do, it does not occur to me to demand a pay rise; rather, I am
quietly cheered by the thought that this means I am better value for money, thus
making my own job more secure.

But I have noticed that holding on to a job seems to be of less concern for
those higher up the ladder. There are several obvious reasons for this. The
first is that the more executives earn, the more favourable their contracts in
the event of termination. Sir Fred Goodwin and Tony Hayward may not feel great
about recent career developments, but thanks to handsome pension provisions they
will not be short of cash.

Furthermore, neither scandal nor failure seems to be a bar to future employment,
once executives have scaled the heights.

The Wall Street Journal reported this week that Mark Hurd, the recently ousted
CEO of Hewlett-Packard (HP), already has job offers coming in. The fact that he
was asked to leave the US technology company as a result of business conduct
violations, connected to his relationship with a female marketing consultant,
doesn't seem to have stemmed the flow of calls.

While it is true that the HP board found no violation of its sexual harassment
policy (Hurd has privately settled a claim from the woman), the improprieties by
the boss of a company that had a stated policy of keeping out of corporate
governance trouble hardly instill confidence.

Not surprisingly, at least one source of the reported offers is a private equity
business, the departing executive's favourite port in - or after - a storm.

Among those cast adrift after the financial crisis, Andy Hornby, formerly of
HBOS, is now running private equity-owned Alliance Boots; while Northern Rock's
ex-boss Adam Applegarth is advising US-based Apollo.

And there are plenty of advisory positions for former politicians to be had,
too.

The genuinely voluntary departure, without a job to go to, is a rare thing, in
politics as well as in business. Most resignations are nothing of the sort: they
are carefully-worded circumlocutions, designed to preserve the dignity of those
being eased out. So to quit on the stated grounds that one is not up to the job
is almost unheard of.

That is what makes the stance taken by Lord Pearson of Rannoch, who resigned as
leader of the UK Independence Party this week, so delicious. "I have learnt that
I am not much good at party politics, which I do not enjoy," he wrote in his
resignation letter. Instead, he plans to focus on other interests - including
"the treatment of people with intellectual impairment, teacher training, the
threat from Islamism and the relationship between good and evil, not to mention
my dogs and my family" (what I like best is that he lists his dogs ahead of his
family).

There was one flaw in Lord Pearson's announcement: he couldn't resist pointing
out that he had overseen a 50pc increase in the party's share of the vote in the
election. The subtle underlying message was that even though he, Lord Pearson,
didn't rate his performance terribly highly, others might well beg to differ.
Still, this is a mere quibble.

It must be harder for Americans, who often think that what we would call
showing-off is just healthy self-esteem.

Taking this into account, I thought Stanley Druckenmiller, the legendary hedge
fund manager who once bet against the pound, did rather well in his letter to
investors. Announcing the closure of his fund, Mr Druckenmiller explained that
"the disappointment of each interim drawdown over the years has taken a
cumulative toll that I cannot continue to sustain. This is true even though to
date we have delivered an unbroken record of positive annual performance, which
I hope will continue for 2010 as well. And while our clients were certainly
pleased that we achieved positive results for 2008 and 2009 in a challenging
environment, as you may have surmised I was dissatisfied with those results
because they did not match my own, internal long-term standard."

In other words, however brilliant Mr Druckenmiller may appear to everyone else,
he has such high standards that he constantly disappoints himself.

I don't know about fund management, but in the very British art of mock
selfdeprecation, Mr Druckenmiller is certainly a champion.

tracy.corrigan@telegraph.co.uk Comment on Tracy Corrigan's view at
telegraph.co.uk/finance

"The genuinely voluntary departure, without a job to go to, is a rare thing "

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EUROCRATS GET HUGE PAY RISE;
As Britons face even more cuts

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 1165 words


GREEDY Eurocrats are on course for three pay rises in the next 12 months,
boosting their already generous salaries by more than five per cent, the Daily
Express can reveal.

While European families are being called on to make huge sacrifices to bring
their countries out of recession, they must also pay to make Brussels
bureaucrats richer by thousands of pounds a year.

Oblivious Last night UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Their
arrogance is laid bare. All of us face pay cuts and loss of jobs while they get
richer. This proves that the only recessionproof job is working for the European
Union." Fiona McEvoy of the TaxPayers' Alliance added: "This is a slap in the
face for UK taxpayers who hand over nearly £21million a day to Brussels, only to
see Eurocrats give themselves generous rises.

"Families here have had to tighten their belts, and spending will have to be
reduced as we try to tackle the crisis, but politicians in Brussels seem
oblivious to economic reality."

A Treasury spokesman added: "At a time when

Brussels Sunny 27C/81F Dublin Rain 20C/68F Frankfurt Sunny 27C/81F Geneva
Thunder 27C/81F Lisbon Sunny 32C/90F Madrid Sunny 35C/95F Paris Sunny 29C/84F
Rome Sunny 30C/86F governments have taken action to reduce the costs of their
public sector, including freezing or even cutting civil service salaries and
reviewing pension schemes, the UK Government believes that pay and pensions in
EU bodies must reflect the very difficult decisions being made right across
Europe." Brussels Dublin Frankfurt Geneva Lisbon Madrid Paris Rome The
controversial pay rises for the 35,000 Eurocrats have emerged in the EU
Commission's budget plan for the coming year.

around the world C F C F Amsterdam. Sunny 19 66 Athens. .. .. Sunny 37 99
Barcelona... Thndr 27 81 Berlin. .. .. . Fair 19 66 Budapest... Sunny 24 75
Cairo.. .. .. . Sunny 36 97 Cape Town.. Sunny 16 61 Casablanca. Sunny 26 79
Corfu. .. .. . Sunny 35 95 Dublin.. .. .. Cloudy 17 63 Dubrovnik... Sunny 26 79
Faro. .. .. .. Sunny 26 79 Florence.. .. Cloudy 27 81 Gibraltar. .. . Sunny 26
79 Guernsey... Sunny 19 66 It states: "A salary increase of 2.2 per cent is
expected at the end of 2010 with a potential further adjustment to 1.3 per cent
in 2011." Hong Kong.. Shwrs 28 82 Istanbul.. .. . Sunny 33 91 Jersey.. .. ..
Sunny 20 68 Larnaca. .. . Sunny 33 91 Las Palmas. Sunny 27 81 Los Angeles. Fair
26 79 Luxor. .. .. . Sunny 41 106 Malaga. .. .. Sunny 28 82 Mallorca. .. .
Cloudy 28 82 Malta. .. .. . Sunny 33 91 Melbourne. . Sunny 14 57 Miami. .. .. .
Fair 33 91 Moscow. .. . Cloudy 22 72 Nairobi. .. .. Cloudy 20 68 New Delhi...
Rain 27 81 The officials are set for a third increase following a court
resolution of the dispute over a 3.7 per cent increase that UK and other EU
states halted due to the financial crisis.

This will be dated back to July last year, costing taxpayers even more .

The matter went to the European Court of Justice, which is expected to Toronto.
.. .. Sunny 21 70 Tunis.. .. .. . Sunny 34 93 Venice. .. .. Sunny 26 79 Vienna.
.. .. Cloudy 23 73 Warsaw. .. . Thndr 15 59 find in the Eurocrats' favour when
it delivers its verdict next month. A source close to the Commission said: "They
stand a good chance of getting the extra money because of the binding statute
for automatic increase in salaries."

The controversial hikes will see the lowest paid EU official's salary rise by
£2,200 to more than £40,000 a year in Berlin. .. .. . Fair Budapest... Sunny
Cairo.. .. .. . Sunny Cape Town.. Sunny Casablanca. Sunny Corfu. .. .. . Sunny
Dublin.. .. .. Cloudy Dubrovnik... Sunny Faro. .. .. .. Sunny Florence.. ..
Cloudy Gibraltar. .. . Sunny Glascarnoch 3C (37F) Fair Isle 0.22in.

pay and allowances. Top-earning Eurocrats will see their salaries go up by
almost £12,000 to a massive £222,850.

Belfast 8.42pm-6.09am Birmingham 8.21pm-5.59am Bristol 8.21pm-6.05am Bramham
9.5hr. London Manchester Newcastle No one from the EU Treasury was available for
comment.

Europe forecast A spokesman for the think-tank Open Europe said: "The Government
needs to stand up for UK taxpayers and make it clear that handing over more
money to Brussels when it is budget-cutting at home is simply unacceptable."

Sunny 26C/79F Sunny 27C/81F 20C/68F Sunny 27C/81F Thunder 27C/81F Sunny 32C/90F
Sunny 35C/95F Sunny 29C/84F Sunny 30C/86F Amsterdam Cloudy Brussels Fair Dublin
Showers Frankfurt Sunny Geneva Sunny Lisbon Sunny Madrid Sunny Paris Sunny Rome
Sunny Last month it emerged that more than 1,000 Eurocrats are paid more than
the Prime Minister, whose annual income of £142,500 is dwarfed by Herman Van
Rompuy, earning £245,000 plus expenses as EU President.

Mr Van Rompuy, EU foreign minister Lady Ashton and Jose Manuel Barroso, the
Commission President, head a list of 1,023 Eurocrats on bigger salaries than
David Cameron.

around the world yesterday F C F 66 99 81 66 75 97 61 79 95 63 79 79 81 79 Hong
Kong.. Shwrs 28 82 Istanbul.. .. . Sunny 33 91 Jersey.. .. .. Sunny 20 68
Larnaca. .. . Sunny 33 91 Las Palmas. Sunny 27 81 Los Angeles. Fair 26 79 Luxor.
.. .. . Sunny 41 106 Malaga. .. .. Sunny 28 82 Mallorca. .. . Cloudy 28 82
Malta. .. .. . Sunny 33 91 Melbourne. . Sunny 14 57 Miami. .. .. . Fair 33 91
Moscow. .. . Cloudy 22 72 Nairobi. .. .. Cloudy 20 68 Six vice-presidents and 19
commissioners are paid between £57,000 and £103,000 more than the Prime
Minister, while 90 of the EU's 995 civil servants paid £146,267 to £179,703 are
British. New York... Cloudy Nice. .. .. .. Sunny Nicosia. .. .. Sunny Perth.. ..
.. . Sunny Prague. .. .. Cloudy Singapore... Shwrs Stockholm. . Sunny Sydney. ..
.. Sunny Tel Aviv.. .. . Sunny Tenerife. .. . Sunny Toronto. .. .. Sunny Tunis..
.. .. . Sunny Venice. .. .. Sunny Vienna. .. .. Cloudy Extremes: (24 hours to
2pm yesterday) Do Eurocrats deserve huge pay rises? q Coldest: Wettest:
Sunniest: Fair 26C/79F Showers 19C/66F Sunny 30C/86F Sunny 28C/82F Sunny 32C/90F
Sunny 37C/99F Sunny 30C/86F Sunny 31C/88F Today YEs: 0901 030 8346 no: 0901 030
8347 Yes text DXfrIYEs to 80088 Amsterdam Brussels Dublin Frankfurt Geneva
Lisbon Madrid Paris Rome no text DXfrIno to 80088 C F New York... Cloudy 27 81
Nice. .. .. .. Sunny 25 77 Nicosia. .. .. Sunny 39 102 Perth.. .. .. . Sunny 16
61 Prague. .. .. Cloudy 16 61 Singapore... Shwrs 29 84 Stockholm. . Sunny 21 70
Sydney. .. .. Sunny 24 75 Tel Aviv.. .. . Sunny 35 95 Calls cost 25p from a BT
landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates
Amsterdam. Sunny

Manchester 8.26pm-5.59am Newcastle 8.26pm-5.52am Bristol 8.21pm-6.05am Glasgow
8.40pm-6.00am Belfast 8.42pm-6.09am London B'ge (11.12am), Liverpool (9.00am),
Greenock (10.10am), Dover (8.46am), Bristol 3.8 0.20 13 19 Cardiff 0.8 0.41 14
18 Durham 6.6 0.00 10 20 Edinburgh 8.3 0.00 8 18 Manchester 6.7 0.00 11 19
Oxford n/a 0.04 12 20 S'hampton 4.1 0.01 13 20 St Andrews 9.8 0.01 7 20 Top
Eurocrats will earn £222,000 Europe forecast Today Tomorrow Britain Warmest:
Writtle 22C (72F) Lighting-up times Glasgow

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

EUROCRATS GET HUGE PAY RISE;
As Britons face even more cuts EU Budget reveals new pay scandal

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,8

LENGTH: 467 words


GREEDY Eurocrats are on course for three pay rises in the next 12 months,
boosting their already generous salaries by more than five per cent, the Daily
Express can reveal.

While European families are being called on to make huge sacrifices to bring
their countries out of recession, they must also pay to make Brussels
bureaucrats richer by thousands of pounds a year.

Oblivious

Last night UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Their arrogance is
laid bare. All of us face pay cuts and loss of jobs while they get richer. This
proves that the only recessionproof job is working for the European Union."

Fiona McEvoy of the TaxPayers' Alliance added: "This is a slap in the face for
UK taxpayers who hand over nearly £21million a day to Brussels, only to see
Eurocrats give themselves generous rises.

"Families here have had to tighten their belts, and spending will have to be
reduced as we try to tackle the crisis, but politicians in Brussels seem
oblivious to economic reality."

A Treasury spokesman added: "At a time when governments have taken action to
reduce the costs of their public sector, the UK believes that pay and pensions
in EU bodies must refl ect the very difficult decisions being made right across
Europe."

The rises for 35,000 Eurocrats emerged in the EU budget plan for the coming
year.

It states: "A salary increase of 2.2 per cent is expected at the end of 2010
with a potential further adjustment to 1.3 per cent in 2011."

The officials are set for a third increase following a European Court resolution
of a 3.7 per cent increase that member states halted in the financial crisis.
This will be backdated to July last year.

A source close to the Commission said: "They stand a good chance of getting the
extra money because of the binding statute for automatic increase in salaries."

The controversial hikes will see the lowes t -paid EU offi cial's salary rise by
£2,200 to over £40,000 a year in pay and allowances. Top earners will see their
pay go up by almost £12,000 to a massive £222,850.

No one from the EU Treasury was available for comment.

A spokesman for the thinktank Open Europe said: "The Government needs to make it
clear that handing over more money to Brussels when it is budget-cutting at home
is simply unacceptable."

Last month, it emerged that more than 1,000 Eurocrats are paid more than the
Prime Minister. His salary of £142,500 is dwarfed by Herman Van Rompuy' s
£245,000 plus expenses as EU President.

Mr Van Rompuy, EU Foreign Minister Lady Ashton and Jose Manuel Barroso, the
Commission President, head 1,023 Eurocrats on bigger salaries than David
Cameron.

Six vice-presidents and 19 commissioners get between £57,000 and £103,000 more
than the Prime Minister. And 90 of the EU's 995 civil servants who are paid
between £146,267 and £179,703 are British.

LOAD-DATE: August 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EUROCRATS GET HUGE PAY RISE

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 542  words


As Britons face even more cuts

GREEDY Eurocrats are on course for three pay rises in the next 12 months, b
oosting their already generous salaries b y more than five per cent, the Daily
Express can reveal.

While European families are being called on to make huge sacrifices to bring
their countries out of recession, they must also pay to make Brussels
bureaucrats richer by thousands of pounds a year.

Last night UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Their arrogance is
laid bare.

All of us face pay cuts and loss of jobs while they get richer. This proves that
the only recession proof job is working for the European Union."

Fiona McEvoy of the TaxPayers' Alliance added:

"This is a slap in the face for UK taxpayers who hand over nearly GBP 21million
a day to Brussels, only to see Eurocrats give themselves generous rises.

"Families here have had to tighten their belts, and spending will have to be
reduced as we try to tackle the crisis, but politicians in Brussels seem
oblivious to economic reality."

A Treasury spokesman added: "At a time when governments have taken action to
reduce the costs of their public sector, including freezing or even cutting
civil service salaries and reviewing pension schemes, the UK Government believes
that pay and pensions in EU bodies must reflect the very difficult decisions
being made right across Europe."

The controversial pay rises for the 35,000 Eurocrats have emerged in the EU
Commission's budget plan for the coming year.

It states: "A salary increase of 2.2 per cent is expected at the end of 2010
with a potential further adjustment to 1.3 per cent in 2011."

The officials are set for a third increase following a court resolution of the
dispute over a 3.7 per cent increase that UK and other EU states halted due to
the financial crisis.

This will be dated back to July last year, costing taxpayers even more.

The matter went to the European Court of Justice, which is expected to find in
the Eurocrats' favour when it delivers its verdict next month. A source close to
the Commission said: "They stand a good chance of getting the extra money
because of the binding statute for automatic increase in salaries."

The controversial hikes will see the lowest paid EU official's salary rise by
GBP 2,200 to more than GBP 40,000 a year in pay and allowances. Top-earning
Eurocrats will see their salaries go up by almost GBP 12,000 to a massive GBP
222,850.

No one from the EU Treasury was available for comment.

A spokesman for the think-tank Open Europe said: "The Government needs to stand
up for UK taxpayers and make it clear that handing over more money to Brussels
when it is budget-cutting at home is simply unacceptable."

Last month it emerged that more than 1,000 Eurocrats are paid more than the
Prime Minister, whose annual income of GBP 142,500 is dwarfed by Herman Van
Rompuy, earning GBP 245,000 plus expenses as EU President.

Mr Van Rompuy, EU foreign minister Lady Ashton and Jose Manuel Barroso, the
Commission President, head a list of 1,023 Eurocrats on bigger salaries than
David Cameron.

Six vice-presidents and 19 commissioners are paid between GBP 57,000 and GBP
103,000 more than the Prime Minister, while 90 of the EU's 995 civil servants
paid GBP 146,267 to GBP 179,703 are British.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 20, 2010 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

EUROCRATS GET HUGE PAY RISE

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 476  words


As Britons face even more cuts

GREEDY Eurocrats are on course for three pay rises in the next 12 months, b
oosting their already generous salaries b y more than five per cent, the Daily
Express can reveal.

While European families are being called on to make huge sacrifices to bring
their countries out of recession, they must also pay to make Brussels
bureaucrats richer by thousands of pounds a year.

Last night UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "Their arrogance is
laid bare.

All of us face pay cuts and loss of jobs while they get richer. This proves that
the only recession proof job is working for the European Union."

Fiona McEvoy of the TaxPayers' Alliance added:

"This is a slap in the face for UK taxpayers who hand over nearly GBP 21million
a day to Brussels, only to see Eurocrats give themselves generous rises.

"Families here have had to tighten their belts, and spending will have to be
reduced as we try to tackle the crisis, but politicians in Brussels seem
oblivious to economic reality."

A Treasury spokesman added: "At a time when governments have taken action to
reduce the costs of their public sector, the UK believes that pay and pensions
in EU bodies must reflect the very difficult decisions being made right across
Europe."

The rises for 35,000 Eurocrats emerged in the EU budget plan for the coming
year.

It states: "A salary increase of 2.2 per cent is expected at the end of 2010
with a potential further adjustment to 1.3 per cent in 2011."

The officials are set for a third increase following a European Court resolution
of a 3.7 per cent increase that member states halted in the financial crisis.
This will be backdated to July last year.

A source close to the Commission said: "They stand a good chance of getting the
extra money because of the binding statute for automatic increase in salaries."

The controversial hikes will see the lowest-paid EU official's salary rise by
GBP 2,200 to over GBP 40,000 a year in pay and allowances. Top earners will see
their pay go up by almost GBP 12,000 to a massive GBP 222,850.

No one from the EU Treasury was available for comment.

A spokesman for the thinktank Open Europe said: "The Government needs to make it
clear that handing over more money to Brussels when it is budget-cutting at home
is simply unacceptable."

Last month, it emerged that more than 1,000 Eurocrats are paid more than the
Prime Minister. His salary of GBP 142,500 is dwarfed by Herman Van Rompuy's GBP
245,000 plus expenses as EU President.

Mr Van Rompuy, EU Foreign Minister Lady Ashton and Jose Manuel Barroso, the
Commission President, head 1,023 Eurocrats on bigger salaries than David
Cameron.

Six vice-presidents and 19 commissioners get between GBP 57,000 and GBP 103,000
more than the Prime Minister. And 90 of the EU's 995 civil servants who are paid
between GBP 146,267 and GBP 179,703 are British.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             August 20, 2010 Friday

G2: The readers' room: What you thought of G2 this week . . . The sexualisation
of teenage girls, how Tony Blair can restore his reputation - and finding
success in failure

BYLINE: Phil Daoust

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1407 words


&#10002; Last Friday, our TV critic Sam Wollaston told the story of Rebecca
Flint - or, as she prefers to be known, Beckii Cruel. Fifteen-year-old Beckii,
Sam reported,"has big eyes, a sharp chin, fluffy hair and slender limbs. It's a
look that, in the cartoon worlds of anime and manga, is about as cute as it
gets. So when Beckii posted a video of herself dancing to a Japanese pop song in
her bedroom at home on the Isle of Man, she became an instant internet sensation
6,000 miles away."

As a BBC documentary revealed, many of Beckii's Japanese fans are probably a
decade or three older than her. They like to give her presents - one
particularly generous individual sent her boxes of noodles and a Fender bass
guitar for her birthday. Beckii's studies have probably suffered because of the
travelling and the TV and the photoshoots. Still, her dad believes, "It would be
a tragedy to miss that 15 minutes of fame."

Would it? Would it really? "I'm not convinced it's going to work," Wollaston
countered. His advice: "Don't give up on the old GCSEs, just in case the noodles
stop coming through the letterbox (as the ancient Japanese saying goes)."

Over at guardian.co.uk/g2, Startled thought Wollaston was showing his age:
"What's the big deal?" he/she asked. "Shirley Temple and Bonnie Langford were
singing for their suppers when they were tots! Just because it's on the net
doesn't make it 'sinister' or 'creepy'. It's the way we do things today, Sam."

Promethea agreed, with reservations. "I don't think teenage girls should have to
be professionally sexualised for money, but it's not as if it doesn't happen in
Britain too. At least she was dressed in her promotional pictures and wasn't
having a boob job and aspiring to sleep with a footballer."

That's one way of putting the teenager's experiences into context.
HoshinoSakura, who according to her profile is a model in Tokyo, offered
another. "I think you completely misunderstand the relationship between
generations (in Japan)," she suggested. "The virtues of youth, vitality and
health and beauty are very esteemed here. We have the 'idol' culture where young
girls and boys that represent some aspect of these virtues are promoted on TV
and in the music industry and become big stars."

If only she'd left it there. Instead, she went on: "Secondly, we are not so
oppressed sexually as Europeans seem to be. It is not unusual (but not normal)
for young girls to have relationships with much older men . . ."

&#10002;On Monday, Charlie Brooker was explaining how to write. Or rather, he
was explaining why he couldn't explain how to write. "When you're consciously
trying to write," he wrote, "the words just don't come out. To function
efficiently as a writer, 95% of your brain has to teleport off into nowhere,
taking its neuroses with it, leaving the confident, playful 5% alone to operate
the controls. To put it another way: words are like cockroaches; only once the
lights are off do they feel free to scuttle around on the kitchen floor."

That struck a chord with several hundred of you, which might have surprised
Brooker. As he himself put it, "I'm sure I could think of a more terrible
analogy than that given another 100,000 years."

"Najboljsi navdih za pisanje je deadline," tweeted @opica. We have no idea what
that means, but doesn't it look lovely? "Dear writers," advised @SusanArendt
more accessibly, "read this, and recognise your life."

"Charlie, you are an absolute legend," said zootsuiter, on the website. "To hear
that you suffer from the same self-doubt as failed writers like me when
inscribing your beautiful thoughts warms my heart. For some time I have been on
the road trying to make something worthwhile of my travels; throughout this time
I have checked in on you to get a reminder of how to be a curmudgeonly bastard
and still find hope in the world, and you so rarely disappoint."

How to follow up such success? shaun had an idea: "Next week Charlie will write
about writer's cramp, got from chasing cockroaches on the kitchen floor on all
fours."

&#10002; On Tuesday, it was the unbelievers who were scuttling around, after
Owen Bowcott asked if the Catholic church should scrap celibacy for priests.
"It's been estimated," he wrote, "that there are at least 1,000 people in
Britain and Ireland whose fathers were priests at the time of their conception."
One of them, "Stephen", told Bowcott how hurt he was when his father publicly
denied their relationship. "I was denied a father," he said, "my mother was
denied a partner and my father was denied a son . . ."

"My, how things have changed," mused peteran. "Today, any Catholic priest
hanging out with an eight-year-old boy, and watching him play with other young
boys, would be wise to claim paternity."

"It is way overdue for the Catholic church to abolish the celibacy rule,"
tweeted @gabfran. Silverwhistle added: "Celibacy is fine if you're asexual and
it's natural to you; fine if it's voluntary and you don't have to stay that way
unless you want to . . . As a compulsory job requirement, however, it is
inhumane and brutal."

Would no one defend the Church? Well, yes, sonoftherock would. "There is a
debate to be had about celibacy," he conceded, "but this article has nothing to
do with that debate. It's a mishmash of factoids, unsupported statistics, quotes
from fringe groups and disaffected ex-Catholics and tabloid-style 'human
interest' reporting seasoned with the usual anti-Catholicism."

&#10002;Not everything in G2 was about Catholics, honest. On Wednesday, Hadley
Freeman did write about the convert Tony Blair, but what interested her was his
image, not his soul. Even his pledge to donate £5m to the Royal British Legion
hadn't restored his reputation, she pointed out. "Man," she marvelled, "you send
500 British troops to their deaths in two deeply unpopular wars and people just
won't ever let it go."

Freeman's list of possible remedies had Blair hosting the One Show, marrying
Jennifer Aniston and appearing on the X-Factor, singing If I Could Turn Back
Time. Could anyone improve on that? davidabsalom had a go: "It's a pity Last of
the Summer Wine is ending, since it's a great place to park old hams you sort of
thought were long gone." dionysusreborn objected: "I think he hasn't really
explored the shutting-up-and-going-away option . . . Won't some silent order of
monks accept him?"

That still wouldn't do the trick, reckoned JohnYardDog: "The only way I see it
that Blair could ever redeem himself is if David Cameron revealed himself to be
a time-travelling werewolf and Blair fought him on the roof of the Palace of
Westminster in the middle of a titanic thunderstorm." To which one can only
reply: Hmm.

&#10002;In the absence of such a spectacular comeback, our ex-PM might take
comfort from Gaby Hinsliff's column. Failure is the making of some people, she
noted yesterday. "Did anything in public life become the latest short-lived
leader of the UK Independence party so much as his leaving of it, admitting that
he was no good at politics? Lord Pearson's refreshing honesty is just what's
needed come the new world order . . . Failure is not as binary as it feels. Rare
is the true fork in the road, where one path leads only to happiness and the
other only to doom: there's often a chance to double back."

This was music to billysbar's ears. "Yay!" he screamed. "I failed the lot! The
world is mine!" crosby99, however, suggested that reality might be a bit more
complicated: "In my experience, the only thing that matters in the workplace is
ambition. I have little of it, and despite being bright and well-qualified, I am
far lower down the ladder than most of my peers. That's OK - though it took me
until I was 35 to realise I had little professional and material ambition."

"You and me both," agreed schrodingerscat. "As my peers never seem very happy
while running around like headless chickens I have long since decided ambition
is overrated."

Good for both of you. How else would you have time to comment on our stories?
The rest of you: try to keep up.

Phil Daoust

Priests and sex: "Celibacy is fine if you're asexual"

Tony Blair: "Won't a silent order of monks accept him?"

The readers' room If you would like to comment on any of the stories in G2, or
just want to join in the debates, go to guardian.co.uk/g2 to add your comments,
tweet us @guardiang2 or email us at g2feedback@guardian.co.uk On Fridays the
most interesting feedback will be printed on these pages

LOAD-DATE: August 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A WELCOME blow for gender [...]

BYLINE: Virginia Blackburn

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 79 words


A WELCOME blow for gender equality: lord Pearson has stepped down from the
leadership of UKIP on the grounds that he's not up to the job. Until now the
only other politico I could recall doing this was estelle morris, who rightly
felt that her talents were not up to being education Secretary and who then said
as much.

At the time I glumly put this down to female self-deprecation. Nice to see a
bloke showing that men can be just as willing to admit to a lack of talent too

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Virginia Blackburn

BYLINE: Virginia Blackburn

SECTION: COLUMNS; 14

LENGTH: 79  words


A WELCOME blow for gender equality: Lord Pearson has stepped down from the
leadership of UKIP on the grounds that he's not up to the job. Until now the
only other politico I could recall doing this was Estelle Morris, who rightly
felt that her talents were not up to being Education Secretary and who then said
as much.

At the time I glumly put this down to female self-deprecation. Nice to see a
bloke showing that men can be just as willing to admit to a lack of talent too.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday

G2: Gaby Hinsliff: If you're opening your results today, don't worry. We are
only a puny island race, and success is for losers

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 967 words


When you think of the downsides to success (not least, for pretty sixth-form
girls getting good A-level results, having to leap around for newspaper
photographers), it's surprising failure gets such a bad press. Nobody wants to
stigmatise those hotfooting it to Oxford with six A*s: doubtless they did the
best they could. It's just a shame they're missing out both on what JK Rowling
has called the fringe benefits of failure, which she described as a feeling of
inner security - who are you to argue that might actually stem from her
subsequent multimillion pound success? - and on the feeling of really moving
with the times.

Of course it's possible that knocking the stuffing out of our public services
will be the making of them, freeing our armed forces or universities to become
worldbeaters by removing the dreadful burden of proper funding. But you wouldn't
bet the farm on it, which makes it prudent to adjust national expectations of
world domination.

We are only a puny island race after all, weak from lack of sunshine: the main
reason we've previously triumphed at cricket and world wars is probably that we
largely invented them. Now everyone else has had a chance to practise, success
is getting elusive - so why not corner the market in flamboyant international
failure? That's if we can get in before the French, whose World Cup team were
clearly testing the water.

At least we're ahead of the curve politically. Did anything in public life
become the latest short-lived leader of the UK Independence party so much as his
leaving of it, admitting that he was no good at politics? Lord Pearson's
refreshing honesty is just what's needed come the new world order. Steven "I'd
boo the England team if I was you" Gerrard is also on message, while some of our
greatest cultural exports already do very well out of failure - from Hugh Grant
(plays romantic leads who can't talk to women) to Tracey Emin (bases her work on
bad relationships).

Admittedly the zeitgeist hasn't reached Gordon Brown, who responded to electoral
disaster mostly by insisting that it's fine being a backbencher. Someone needs
to sit him in front of What Trinny and Susannah Did Next: the former makeover
queens' spoof fly-on-the-wall documentary, satirising their own shameless
scrabble to get back on air after their show was axed. It is a model of how to
exploit your setbacks.

For while the script is fiction, the underlying premise is true: the pair's
original idea for a spoof was rebuffed by TV networks, hence they're defiantly
broadcasting it online instead. As the saying goes, if life hands you lemons,
make a miniseries out of them - something former home secretary Alan Johnson has
also grasped, responding to defeat with a radio gig about his previous career as
a failed musician.

The difficulty, of course, in selling ourselves as one big slapstick comedy is
that failure can be tragic as well as comic. When governments err, the
consequences are anything but funny: for individuals, the pain of a collapsed
marriage or business runs deep.

Yet it's comforting to recognise that failure is not as binary as it feels. Rare
is the true fork in the road, where one path leads only to happiness and the
other only to doom: there's often a chance to double back. As George Bush once
told graduates of his old university: "To those of you who received honours,
awards and distinctions, I say well done. And to the C students, I say you too
can be president of the United States."

Failure can, as Rowling argued, strip one to the bare essentials and reveal what
matters: it can be a wakeup call, a lesson in what not to do, a nudge on to a
more suitable path. But it's rarely a life sentence.

So for all those students opening envelopes in the coming days and not finding
what they wanted: explore all your options, then try to see failure as an
investment in future happiness. Why do authors frame rejection slips, and
tycoons their despairing school reports? Because when success finally arrives,
it tastes sweeter for remembering those who failed to see it coming.

In praise of plain speaking

When is a bagel more than just a bagel? When it's a revolt against corporate
America. Lynne Rosenthal, a sixtysomething New Yorker, was allegedly ejected
from a Manhattan Starbucks last week after refusing to order hers in approved
coffee shop terms.

She declined to add "no butter, no cheese" when ordering her multigrain bagel,
arguing that we shouldn't have to list all the things we don't want instead of
just the thing we do. For good measure, Rosenthal won't say "tall" or "venti" or
any other euphemism designed to disguise the fact you're paying over £2 for a
mug of mostly hot milk.

Not that she was complaining about profit margins. Rosenthal is an English
professor, and as she told the New York Post: "Linguistically, it's stupid and I
am a stickler for correct English." The point of language is to reveal meaning,
not obscure it.

Admittedly Rosenthal is also accused of shouting "asshole" at the barista,
something one can't imagine Lynne Truss doing. Still, it's hard not to cheer her
semantic standards - while remembering that this side of the pond, a little
confrontation goes a long way.

Perhaps the ideal compromise for anyone who chokes on the words "half-caf skinny
strong soy" is this: order your venti obediently, but in the inaudible mumble of
a teenager buying condoms, forcing the confused barista to ask several times
what you said.

Every wasted second costs the boss-class money, after all. We shall overcome,
one slightly delayed transaction at a time.

Deborah Orr is away

This week:

Gaby has been fiddling with the new running app on her phone: "So much easier
than actually running." She also listened to Radio 4's What's the Point of . . .
? on the RAF, Quentin Letts's take on the future of warfare.

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            August 19, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

AND SO TO THE 5 BIG QUESTIONS OF THE WEEK

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 115 words


1 WHO'S more punchable, a waiter asking if you and your partner are "ready to
order guys?" or a barman handing over your change and saying "thanks dude"?

2 JOHN Prescott calling Tory adviser Alan Milburn a collaborator. Isn't it great
to see him pick up posher words to describe political traitors since becoming a
Lord?

3 THE couple on pounds 1,200-a-week benefits having their 12th child. Can't we
make part of the handout package condom vouchers?

4 UKIP leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch resigns. Has he decided to spend more time
at home with his prejudices?

5 ANYONE else refused to put a penny in the Halifax Building Society until they
stop creating ads which make you want to attack the TV?

LOAD-DATE: August 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

UKIP LEADER QUITS, SAYING HE IS OENO GOOD!

BYLINE: BY GERRI PEEV POLITICAL REPORTER POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 354 words


THE UK Independence Party leader has quit after the frank admission that he
simply was not OEmuch good! at the job.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch said his party OEdeserves someone better! and will stand
down on September 2.

The former businessman!s departure paves the way for the return of firebrand
Ukip MEP Nigel Farage as party leader.

But in an eye-wateringly honest statement, Lord Pearson, 68, drew attention to
his age and failure at getting to grips with party politics.

OEUkip deserves a better politician than me to lead it and show the country how
liberating and enriching life would be outside the EU,! he said. OEI am
confident that one will emerge.

OEWe increased our vote

50 per cent and have many exciting plans for the future. But I have learnt that
I am not much good at party politics, which I do not enjoy. I am also 68, and
need to give more time to my wider interests.!

The former Tory peer!s brief leadership stint was marred

a gaffe in the General Election, when he admitted he had not read his party!s
manifesto.

Former Ukip leader Mr Farage yesterday signalled that he had not ruled out
returning to lead the party.

He said he could throw his OEhat in the ring! for the job, but had to make up
his mind whether he was physically fit enough.

The MEP was in an airplane crash on Election day after a party banner got
tangled in the propeller. The maverick politician, who failed to oust the
Commons Speaker John Bercow in his Buckingham seat, said he was still struggling
with his injuries.

He suffered broken ribs, bruised lungs and facial injuries in the accident in
Northamptonshire. He told BBC Radio 4!s Today programme his back was OEnot all
that it should be!.

OEWhilst I feel very well within myself, I!m conscious that I just haven!t, at
the moment, got the kind of work capacity that perhaps is needed,! he added.

David Campbell Bannerman, meanwhile, became the first Ukip member to confirm he
was standing for the leadership. Lord Pearson is the second politician in recent
times to concede they were not doing a good enough job.

Estelle Morris resigned as Education Secretary in 2002, admitting she was OEnot
up to it!.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lord Pearson of Ukip sets a good example

BYLINE: Judith Woods

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 179 words


Who would have thought Ukip could ever have made such an historic contribution
to British democracy as they have this week? Bigger than wresting back power
from Brussels bureaucrats, better than seceding from Europe, with its smelly
drains and peculiar ideas about what constitutes a proper breakfast, the
resignation of Lord Pearson of Rannoch because he "wasn't very good" at party
politics represents a milestone that must surely irrevocably alter the political
landscape.

Mousy Estelle Morris, the education secretary, surrendered her brief back in
2002 with a statement including the admission that: "I have not felt I have been
as effective as I should be, or as effective as you need me to be." But her air
of a particularly depressed supply teacher out of her depth made it more
tragicomic rout than heroic hari-kari.

So, Lord Pearson, we salute you and, following your glorious example, We The
People hereby call on all MPs who are a bit rubbish at their jobs to stand up,
fall upon their Mont Blanc fountain pens bought on expenses, and do the Right
Honourable thing.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'Not good enough' Ukip leader quits

BYLINE: Christopher Hope

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 229 words


LORD PEARSON of Rannoch, the leader of the UK Independence Party, yesterday
announced he was stepping down and admitted he was not good enough at the job.

The peer, who took charge in November, said the party "deserved someone better"
to put the case for leaving the European Union.

The move could open the way for a return by Nigel Farage, who quit as leader to
concentrate on his failed attempt to oust John Bercow, the Commons Speaker, at
the general election.

In a statement, Lord Pearson said: "I have learnt that I am not much good at
party politics, which I do not enjoy. I am also 68, and need to give more time
to my wider interests."

He will stand down on Sept 2 to allow the new leader to get established before
the next general election.

He added: "Ukip deserves a better politician than me to lead it and show the
country how liberating and enriching life would be outside the EU."

Mr Farage, who suffered serious injuries in a plane crash on polling day, said
he would consider standing for the leadership again if he was fit. He sustained
broken ribs, bruised lungs and facial injuries when the plane he was in, towing
a Ukip banner, nosedived in Northamptonshire.

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme: "Whilst I feel very well within myself,
I'm conscious that I just haven't, at the moment, got the kind of work capacity
that perhaps is needed."

Judith Woods: Page 20

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Pearson admitted he did not enjoy party politics and would make
way for a 'better politician'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

UKIP leader quits and confesses: 'I'm not much good at party politics'

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 304 words


LORD Pearson of Rannoch quit as leader of the UK Independence Party yesterday,
insisting he was not good enough for the job.

In a resignation notable for its honesty, the peer who only took over in
November said the party "deserved someone better" to put the case for leaving
the European Union.

He had a difficult general election, telling one interviewer he could not recall
his own manifesto in detail.

The decision could pave the way for a shock return by Nigel Farage, who quit as
leader to concentrate on his failed attempt to oust Commons Speaker John Bercow
as an MP. Euro MP David Campbell Bannerman, UKIP's popular deputy leader and
manifesto writer, is also in the frame with an interim leader likely to be
chosen at next month's annual party conference.

Lord Pearson said: "I took over as leader of UKIP last year to see the party
through the General Election and said I would then consider my position.

"We increased our vote by 50 per cent and have many exciting plans for the
future.

"But I have learnt that I am not much good at party politics, which I do not
enjoy. I am also 68, and need to give more time to my wider interests.

"So it is right that I should stand down on September 2, early in the
Parliament, to give a younger leader time to be established before the next
election, which may come sooner than we think. There is no shortage of talent in
UKIP and the new leader will have my full support.

"UKIP deserves a better politician than me to lead it and show the country how
liberating and enriching life would be outside the EU.

"I am confident that one will emerge."

Mr Farage, who suffered serious injuries in a plane crash on polling day, did
not rule out standing again.

He was installed as 4/5 favourite with Ladbrokes to regain his post. But he told
BBC Radio 4's Today he needed more time to decide.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Pearson: Time to stand down

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP leader quits and confesses: 'I'm not much good at party politics'

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 304  words


LORD Pearson of Rannoch quit as leader of the UK Independence Party yesterday,
insisting he was not good enough for the job.

In a resignation notable for its honesty, the peer who only took over in
November said the party "deserved someone better" to put the case for leaving
the European Union.

He had a difficult general election, telling one interviewer he could not recall
his own manifesto in detail.

The decision could pave the way for a shock return by Nigel Farage, who quit as
leader to concentrate on his failed attempt to oust Commons Speaker John Bercow
as an MP. Euro MP David Campbell Bannerman, UKIP's popular deputy leader and
manifesto writer, is also in the frame with an interim leader likely to be
chosen at next month's annual party conference.

Lord Pearson said: "I took over as leader of UKIP last year to see the party
through the General Election and said I would then consider my position.

"We increased our vote by 50 per cent and have many exciting plans for the
future.

"But I have learnt that I am not much good at party politics, which I do not
enjoy. I am also 68, and need to give more time to my wider interests.

"So it is right that I should stand down on September 2, early in the
Parliament, to give a younger leader time to be established before the next
election, which may come sooner than we think.

There is no shortage of talent in UKIP and the new leader will have my full
support.

"UKIP deserves a better politician than me to lead it and show the country how
liberating and enriching life would be outside the EU.

"I am confident that one will emerge."

Mr Farage, who suffered serious injuries in a plane crash on polling day, did
not rule out standing again.

He was installed as 4/5 favourite with Ladbrokes to regain his post. But he told
BBC Radio 4's Today he needed more time to decide.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lord Pearson: Time to stand down

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

G2: Shortcuts: Work: Sorry, but I'm just not up to the job . . .

BYLINE: Phil Daoust

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 255 words


If nothing else, you have to admire his honesty. Yesterday Lord Pearson
announced he was stepping down as Ukip's leader, because he was "not much good
at party politics". He added that he didn't even enjoy it. He had been in the
job for less than a year.

This sort of public self-immolation is rare in public life, although a select
few have similarly bared their souls. Kevin Keegan, for example, who in 2000
packed in the job of England coach with the words: "I have had all the help I
have needed to do my job properly, but I've not been quite good enough." Two
years later, Estelle Morris apologised to Tony Blair for not being "as effective
as I should be". Resigning as education secretary, she told the PM she had
achieved more as a humble schools minister.

Whether your field is politics, plumbing or plastic surgery, unless you don't
actually need to work, it's rarely a good idea to admit to total incompetence,
especially to your boss or competitors. If you're a politician, that's pretty
much everyone: the electorate, the backstabbers in your own party and those with
a rival agenda.

Now Pearson intends to focus on his "wider interests . . . the treatment of
people with intellectual impairment, teacher training, the threat from Islamism
and the relationship between good and evil". And one thing about his resignation
is strictly routine: like the millions of soon-to-be-ex-politicians before him,
he plans to spend more time with his family.

Phil Daoust

Captions:

Kevin Keegan, Estelle Morris and Lord Pearson

Nadja Benaissa

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Politics: Ukip leader quits with burst of political honesty

BYLINE: Adam Gabbatt

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 100 words


Ukip's leader, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, announced his resignation yesterday as
leader of the rightwing party. The former Tory peer led the party for less than
a year after taking over from Nigel Farage in November. The Ukip leader, a
donnish figure who struggled with publicity duties, was not seen to have enjoyed
a hugely successful election campaign, particularly when struggling to remember
parts of the Ukip manifesto during a TV interview in April. Announcing his
departure, Pearson said: "I am not much good at party politics . . . I am also
68, and need to give more time to my wider interests."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

I wasn't up to the job, says ex-Ukip leader;
POLITICS

BYLINE: Kunal Dutta

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 130 words


THE LEADER of the UK Independence Party, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, resigned
yesterday - saying he was bad at his job. The peer, who only took charge in
November, said the party "deserved someone better" to put the case for leaving
the European Union.

"We increased our vote by 50 per cent [at the general election], and have many
exciting plans for the future," he said. "But I have learnt that I am not much
good at party politics, which I do not enjoy."

Ukip's former leader Nigel Farage, who suffered serious injuries in a plane
crash on polling day, said he would consider standing for the leadership again
if he was physically fit. He sustained broken ribs, bruised lungs and facial
injuries when his plane crashed at a Northamptonshire airfield.

Leading article, Viewspaper, page 2

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP'S BOSS: I'M NO GOOD;
POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 88 words


THE UK Independence Party's leader quit yesterday, admitting he was not very
good at party politics.

Lord Pearson, 68, who only took charge of the right-wing party in November, said
UKIP "deserved someone better" to put the case for leaving the European Union.

He said: "I have learnt that I am not much good at party politics which I do not
enjoy." He plans to give more time to interests, which include "my dogs and my
family".

The move means former leader Nigel Farage, hurt in a plane crash on general
election day, could take over.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: QUITTING Lord Pearson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday

Britain - 'Not good enough' Ukip leader quits

LENGTH: 82 words


POLITICS: UK Independence Party leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch announced he was
stepping down yesterday because he was not good enough at the job.

The move could open the way for a return by Nigel Farage, who quit as leader to
concentrate on his failed attempt to oust Commons Speaker John Bercow from
Parliament at the general election.

Mr Farage, who suffered serious injuries in a plane crash on polling day, said
he would consider standing for the leadership again if he was physically fit.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

UKIP No1: I'm not a lot of use

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 100 words


ANTI-EU party UKIP was plunged into turmoil yesterday when its bungling leader
quit - saying he was "not much good".

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, 68, had been in the job less than a year.

He was embarrassed during the election campaign when he could not remember his
party's manifesto.

He told stunned colleagues: "I have learned that I am not much good at party
politics, which I do not enjoy. UKIP deserves a better politician than me to
lead it." Ex-leader Nigel Farage was - seriously hurt when a polling day plane
crash - is favourite to replace him. David Campbell Bannerman is also planning
to stand.

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Going ... Lord Pearson

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           August 18, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

UKIP leader resigns saying: 'I'm no good'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 95 words


Lord Pearson of Rannoch is to step down as leader of the UK Independence Party.
The 68-year-old peer, who took charge in November, said that the party "deserved
someone better" to put the case for leaving the EU.

His resignation could open the way for a return by Nigel Farage, who quit as
leader to concentrate on his attempt to defeat the Speaker, John Bercow, at the
general election.

Lord Pearson said: "We increased our vote by 50 per cent, and have many exciting
plans for the future. But I have learnt that I am not much good at party
politics, which I do not enjoy."

LOAD-DATE: August 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            August 17, 2010 Tuesday

Lord Pearson resignation - what a shame

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1091 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: There has been something both engaging and dotty about Lord
Pearson's career - which made him the perfect man to lead Ukip in an
appropriately ineffectual way

FULL TEXT

British public life is the poorer today in consequence of the resignation of  as
leader of the UK Independence party. There has been something both engaging and
dotty about his career - which made him the perfect man to lead Ukip in an
appropriately ineffectual way.

PG Wodehouse would have loved him, and could not have invented a character so
wacky and wayward as Pearson's joint deputy, Viscount Monckton, who is currently
being hounded by the House of Lords for claiming to be a member - which he never
has been. They are both Thatcherites run to seed.

Unfortunately for those of us who enjoyed Pearson's accident-orientated year as
leader and felt it was the best possible solution to the Ukip question, he seems
to have noticed his own unsuitability too. Hence .

In fairness, he has also just turned 68 and modern politics is a relentless,
24/7 contact sport which might even have a tired a Churchill, enraged a
Gladstone or demoralised an Attlee. Disraeli would have had a wonderful time on
all the chat shows.

Hence Pearson's self-aware statement:

I took over as leader of Ukip last year to see the party through the general
election, and said I would then consider my position. We increased our vote by
50%, and have many exciting plans for the future. But I have learnt that I am
not much good at party politics, which I do not enjoy. I am also 68, and need to
give more time to my wider interests ...So it is right that I should stand down
on September 2, early in the parliament, to give a younger leader time to be
established before the next election, which may come sooner than we think. There
is no shortage of talent in Ukip, and the new leader will have my full support.

Talking of which, Nigel Farage MEP, the party's ex-leader who stood aside to
unsuccessfully fight Buckingham at the general election, popped up on Radio 4's
Today programme this morning to indicate that he was not sure he was yet fit
enough to resume the post.

Why so? Don't you remember, he was taking part in a daft stunt on election day
and . There was some uncomfortable TV footage of him in distress. He still has
back trouble.

It was not the only reason why the resourceful Farage, the party's most
plausible leader so far, regretted standing. As he later admitted, Tory MPs at
Westminster may have disliked the sitting MP, their colleague Mr Speaker Bercow,
but he proved to be very popular in his constituency, so Farage discovered. He
should have known.

Odd that an anti-establishment party like Ukip should make that mistake, but
that's the thing about such parties, of both left and right. They ape the basic
weaknesses of the big boys and do so on a grander scale because there is no real
structure, tradition or cohesion to rectify error or excess (think expenses),
grandstanding by dominant individuals or petty ideological schism.

Think Tommy Sheridan or Arthur Scargill on the left, Robert Kilroy-Silk or Nick
Griffin on the right, all of them heirs to familiar vanity, villainy or schism.
Only the Greens seem relatively immune, at least in Britain, though we hear
occasional muttering even from that wholesome quarter, where scepticism about
eternal green verities is not encouraged.

I used to study the machinations of such parties more closely than I now do,
fearful that some unscrupulous populist of left or right - it barely matters
which because so many policies end up the same - might emerge as the "man on a
white horse" to save the country in some lurking crisis. It could happen, but
they do make it hard for themselves.

Does Ukip matter all the same? Yes and no. It and its fellow Europe-bashing
parties of the right have done the Tories persistent election damage since
Margaret Thatcher was driven out. In the 2009 EU elections, Ukip won 13 seats
and came second - ahead of Labour with 16.5% of the vote.

It also has around 100 councillors of one kind or another and a reported 16,000
members last winter. In the 6 May general election it polled 3.1% - up from 2.2%
- but predictably won no seats. General elections are not for "dustbin" protest
votes, which marking your cross for Ukip - I don't mean this unkindly - often
is. The glamorous Caroline Pearson, the third Lady P, stood in Kensington.

So Ukip is a gadfly party, currently the most successful, the party that
attracts the "plague on all your houses" vote from disaffected people. They are
the ones who feel cut off from mainstream public life and the dominant values of
our times, which are free market, commercial, irreligious, liberal,
multicultural, sexualised, consumerist, individualistic, self-indulgent.

Not just that list, of course, because we are all a bundle of contradictions.
The armed forces - in the news again because of  - represent very different
traditions and are widely admired by most of us who would not dream of being
them.

But unfashionable values deserve more than a shrug and a backward glance. The
European issue, which is really Ukip's only distinctive policy despite efforts
to broaden its appeal, is currently on the back burner. But it may return. So
may other issues, good and bad, currently not in vogue. It's just that Ukip is
not a serious vehicle for advancing political causes; easy populist rhetoric
rarely is.

All the same it's worth noting that Pearson's CV shows he stands for things that
matter. Though easily cast as a gaffe-prone figure of fun, he was a substantial
figure in international insurance who took a stand against corruption.

He stands for free trade and free speech (inviting Geert Wilders, the Dutch
politician, to show his anti-Islamic film in Britain until Jacqui Smith blocked
it), he raises funds for disability groups (one daughter has problems), and was
an active supporter of Alexander Solzhenitsyn and other Russian dissidents in
the Soviet era, giving financial support to artists and refugees. He's a hunter
too, and has a Scottish estate to prove it.

They may not be your causes of choice or mine, but they are honourable ones,
espoused by someone who could have sat back and enjoyed his money. It's just
that he isn't very good at politics, which - as we never tire of saying around
here - is harder than it looks.

LOAD-DATE: August 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      August 17, 2010 Tuesday 10:42 AM GMT

Lord Pearson of Rannoch resigns as UKIP leader: 'I am not much good at party
politics'

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 466 words


The day Malcolm Pearson became UKIP leader, the broadcast media determined their
narrative. The former Tory peer, they decided, was a bumbling toff: wealthy,
out-of-touch and eccentric.

In fact, the merest glance at Malcolm's CV would have revealed a more rounded
picture. Malcolm Pearson is a brilliant businessman. His wealth was his own,
honestly acquired (though he has given much of it away to various campaigns and
charities), and his title was a working peerage, one of Margaret Thatcher's last
appointments.

Rarely can the phrase "working peerage" have applied so aptly. Like many
entrepreneurs, Malcolm Pearson wastes no time between conceiving an idea and
realising it. He is the most enthusiastic man I know, pouring his energies into
cause after cause: mental health, education reform, the treatment of Christian
minorities in oppressive regimes, the regeneration of the Highlands. He was one
of the strongest friends to the dissidents in the old USSR, and hosted Aleksandr
Solzhenitsyn when he came to the UK in 1983.

He is also searingly honest. The BBC seemed taken aback by his admission, in his
resignation statement, that "I am not much good at party politics, which I do
not enjoy". It is certainly true that, during the recent election campaign,
Malcolm gave one spectacularly bad interview, in which he seemed to be
unfamiliar with the contents of the UKIP manifesto (though, to be strictly fair,
the passage being quoted at him wasn't from the manifesto, but from a separate
policy document). His failure in that interview was a failure of want of spin:
something which, in our television age, is considered to be the Sin against the
Holy Ghost. All manner of sins and blasphemies shall be forgiven unto the modern
party leader: deviousness, evasiveness, selfishness, viciousness, stupidity,
cupidity, pride. But excessive frankness - by which I mean speaking when it
would be more sensible to say nothing, or ignoring the expected euphemisms -
shall not be forgiven.

Malcolm is not retiring from public life, but shifting from party politics to
the broader campaigning work which has always been his mtier. He is one of those
lucky people who can infect others with his restlessness, and I defy anyone to
spend 20 minutes in his company without liking him. Campaigning for good causes,
in short, is what he was put on Earth to do.

One more sentence of Lord Pearson's resignation statement is worth quoting:

Now the British people are to be allowed a referendum on how they elect their
MPs, but they are denied the referendum they were promised on whether those MPs
should govern the country; on whether we should remain ensnared in the tentacles
of the corrupt EU octopus, or be set free to enjoy the fruits of democracy and
free trade.

Amen.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             August 15, 2010 Sunday

DAVID WOULD NEVER HAVE COMMITTED SUICIDE IN THAT SPOT

BYLINE: BY GLEN OWEN

LENGTH: 437 words


A DISTINGUISHED historian and neighbour of Dr David Kelly has added to the
growing clamour for an inquest

declaring he does not believe Dr Kelly committed suicide.

Count Nikolai Tolstoy said last night that the scientist!s OEconsiderate!
character meant he would never have chosen to die in a place where passers-by
were likely to be shocked K particularly when he could easily have deployed more
discreet and effective means of killing himself.

Tolstoy, who is an expert on Celtic mythology and the Second World War, lives in
the Oxfordshire village of Southmoor where the scientist shared an old farmhouse
with his wife, Janice Kelly. Dr Kelly died on nearby Harrowdown Hill, on a
walking route that is widely used

locals.

OEI remember the night of his death very well,! Tolstoy said last night. OEThere
were helicopters flying overhead for hours after the body was found.

OEThe general view in the village is that suicide is extremely unlikely. He used
to drink in our local pub and he was a very friendly and considerate man.

OEI frequently walk past the spot where he died, and he would not have done
something like that in a place where an old lady could have found him.

OEIt just seems wholly implausible that he should have chosen to saw away at his
wrist with a blunt knife when there were other means available to him at home,
where his wife kept various drugs for her medical conditions.!

Tolstoy, who stood as a UKIP candidate against David Cameron at the last
Election, believes that Dr Kelly died because he had annoyed Tony Blair!s
Government.

The historian, who is a distant cousin of War And Peace author Leo Tolstoy, had
his own battle with the Establishment in the Eighties when he was ordered to pay
61.5 million damages to Lord Aldington, after making claims in a pamphlet
accusing the peer of complicity in war crimes.

Tolstoy!s defence against the libel action was seriously hampered when the
Ministry of Defence removed vital papers from the Public Record Office which
Tolstoy needed to fight his case K while Aldington found his access to war
records unimpeded.

OEI was in a similar position when I was attacked

the Establishment and it didn!t make me feel that way [suicidal],! Tolstoy
added.

OEAs Sherlock Holmes said, when you have eliminated the impossible, you are left
with what happened.

OEPresumably the British Government was behind it all. I don!t believe the
theory that Iraqi agents murdered him K how would they have the means and the
opportunity to come into the country?

OEI wouldn!t put anything past the Government, as I know from personal
experience. When the Establishment is threatened, it closes ranks.!

LOAD-DATE: August 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                August 15, 2010

SECTION: OBSERVER THE WEEK PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 76 words


I've never had anything but contempt for Gilbert and Sullivan, boring,
self-satisfied English drivel. . . it's simply Ukip set to music.

Jonathan Miller, right, director of English National Opera's hugely popular
Mikado

It's a fairly dysfunctional organisation, there is a lot

that needs fixing. What we

need to do is turn the organisation around to get it fit for purpose and start
competing in these new markets [of pay-per-view and online].

Adam Crozier

ITV boss


LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                August 15, 2010

Seven days: In the UK: WHAT THEY SAID...

SECTION: OBSERVER THE WEEK PAGES; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 76 words


I've never had anything but contempt for Gilbert and Sullivan, boring,
self-satisfied English drivel. . . it's simply Ukip set to music.

Jonathan Miller, right, director of English National Opera's hugely popular
Mikado

It's a fairly dysfunctional organisation, there is a lot

that needs fixing. What we

need to do is turn the organisation around to get it fit for purpose and start
competing in these new markets [of pay-per-view and online].

Adam Crozier

ITV boss


LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                August 15, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

HEAR SAY;
SEVEN DAYS IN SOUNDBITES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 208 words


"We are ready to sit down with Mr Obama face-toface and put the global issues on
the table, man-toman, freely, and in front of the media and see whose solutions
are better."

Iranian president MAHMOUD AHMADINEJAD shows the US President how to do
statesmanship

"Having been shockingly overlooked by successive Norwich City managers... I have
come to the sad conclusion that it is probably unlikely now that I will ever be
picked to play for the first team."

STEPHEN FRY (above) on joining the board of Norwich City FC

"They stone homosexuals there. I think they are still allowed to flog them,
which of course some of them enjoy."

Idly jesting EMMA THOMPSON (below) assures herself of a warm welcome next time
she visits the Isle of Wight

"Super model Niomi [sic] Campbell... showed a keen interest and excitement in
meeting me and my entourage, and promised to pay a visit here in the future."

CHARLES TAYLOR on his relations with the catwalk queen

"It is quite simply the worst tall building ever constructed in London."

ELLIS WOODMAN, Telegraph art critic and chairman of the Carbuncle Cup panel, on
this year's winner - the Strata tower in the Elephant and Castle, south London

"Ukip set to music."

SIR JONATHAN MILLER summarises the works of Gilbert and Sullivan

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                August 15, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Quotes of the week

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 109 words


"England has nothing.

They are a bunch of thick people ruled by a mafia.

The young lad in charge now is even more stupid than his predecessor"
International diplomacy from Mohammad Reza Rahimi, first vice-president of Iran
"Your face tells a story - and it shouldn't be a story about your drive to the
doctor's office" No Botox for the actress Julia Roberts "I have never had
anything but contempt for Gilbert and Sullivan. It is simply UKIP set to music"
Sir Jonathan Miller says Pooh-Bah to G &S "I find Audrey Hepburn fantastically
twee. She can't sing and she can't really act" Emma Thompson, who is writing a
new version of Hepburn's film My Fair Lady

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Fury as EU envoy to the US says: I speak for Britain

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 494 words


EUROPE'S desperate power grab was illustrated last night after the new EU
ambassador to Washington suggested he will speak for Britain in America.

Joao Vale de Almeida, formally installed in his job this week, said he could
advise on foreign and military policy.

He is the first EU ambassador to be appointed after the Lisbon Treaty gave the
EU sweeping new foreign policy powers.

The Portuguese-born diplomat said he would be "leading the show" among European
representatives in Washington and had "a wider mandate" than any of his
predecessors.

Asked about former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's famous question:
"When I want to talk to Europe, who do I call?'' Mr Vale de Almeida said: "In
this area code, you call me."

He insisted he did not want to impose himself on the ambassadors of member
states dealing with matters touching on their own countries' relations with the
White House. But he declared: "Where we have a common position, I am the one
leading the show."

His comments will alarm Sir Nigel Sheinwald, Britain's ambassador in Washington
who is said to have struggled to build good relations with the US administration
after the leaking of a memo he wrote to Gordon Brown in 2008, questioning Barack
Obama's experience. Mr Vale de Almeida's words will also enrage critics of
Brussels who feel the EU is bent on acquiring the powers of a state.

Conservative MP Philip Davies said of his remarks: "It's outrageous. We are
supposed to have a special relationship with America, and we've obviously got a
better one than the rest of the EU.

"I don't want Britain's relationship with America to be tied in with the rest of
the EU, where some countries are regarded with utter contempt by many Americans.
The Government has to put its foot down on this.

"It's not much of a vote of confidence in our own ambassador if it's going to
allow some EU placeman to start representing our interests in America. It's the
latest step in creating a European nation state."

UKIP MEP William Dartmouth highlighted figures showing the scale of the UK's
diplomatic representation in Washington and around the United States.

"Nigel Sheinwald must be the most expensive cultural attache in the world with
over 400 staff to do his bidding, based in a £100million building," he said.
"Sadly, from today they do Brussels's bidding instead." Stephen Booth, of the
Open Europe think-tank, said of Mr Vale de Almeida's comments: "They illustrate
that the EU's new foreign service has big political ambitions which are only
likely to grow with time.

"The best-case scenario is that these new EU ambassadors simply duplicate the
work of the Foreign Office but at an extra expense to the UK taxpayer."

A Foreign Office spokesman in London said: "There is no question of the new
European External Action Service replacing the UK diplomatic service.

"The Lisbon Treaty makes clear that the EEAS 'shall work in cooperation with the
diplomatic services of the member states'."

oPInIon: PAGE 14

LOAD-DATE: August 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ambassador Vale de Almeida

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            August 14, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury as EU envoy to the US says: I speak for Britain

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 491  words


EUROPE'S desperate power grab was illustrated last night after the new EU
ambassador to Washington suggested he will speak for Britain in America.

Joao Vale de Almeida, formally installed in his job this week, said he could
advise on foreign and military policy.

He is the first EU ambassador to be appointed after the Lisbon Treaty gave the
EU sweeping new foreign policy powers.

The Portuguese-born diplomat said he would be "leading the show" among European
representatives in Washington and had "a wider mandate" than any of his
predecessors.

Asked about former US Secretary of State Henry Kissinger's famous question:

"When I want to talk to Europe, who do I call?'' Mr Vale de Almeida said: "In
this area code, you call me."

He insisted he did not want to impose himself on the ambassadors of member
states dealing with matters touching on their own countries' relations with the
White House. But he declared:

"Where we have a common position, I am the one leading the show."

His comments will alarm Sir Nigel Sheinwald, Britain's ambassador in Washington
who is said to have struggled to build good relations with the US administration
after the leaking of a memo he wrote to Gordon Brown in 2008, questioning Barack
Obama's experience. Mr Vale de Almeida's words will also enrage critics of
Brussels who feel the EU is bent on acquiring the powers of a state.

Conservative MP Philip Davies said of his remarks:

"It's outrageous. We are supposed to have a special relationship with America,
and we've obviously got a better one than the rest of the EU.

"I don't want Britain's relationship with America to be tied in with the rest of
the EU, where some countries are regarded with utter contempt by many Americans.

The Government has to put its foot down on this.

"It's not much of a vote of confidence in our own ambassador if it's going to
allow some EU placeman to start representing our interests in America. It's the
latest step in creating a European nation state."

UKIP MEP William Dartmouth highlighted figures showing the scale of the UK's
diplomatic representation in Washington and around the United States.

"Nigel Sheinwald must be the most expensive cultural attache in the world with
over 400 staff to do his bidding, based in a GBP 100million building, " he said.
"Sadly, from today they do Brussels's bidding instead."

Stephen Booth, of the Open Europe think-tank, said of Mr Vale de Almeida's
comments: "They illustrate that the EU's new foreign service has big political
ambitions which are only likely to grow with time.

"The best-case scenario is that these new EU ambassadors simply duplicate the
work of the Foreign Office but at an extra expense to the UK taxpayer."

A Foreign Office spokesman in London said: "There is no question of the new
European External Action Service replacing the UK diplomatic service.

"The Lisbon Treaty makes clear that the EEAS 'shall work in cooperation with the
diplomatic services of the member states'."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ambassador Vale de Almeida

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

IMMIGRANT MELTDOWN;
Staff forced to free illegals

BYLINE: GARY NICKS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 196 words


BRITAIN'S shambolic immigration system is in "meltdown" as failed asylum seekers
are freed to make room for new inmates.

The Home Office has been forced to let illegals out of detention centres due to
overcrowding.

Euro MP David Campbell Bannerman spoke out after quizzing senior immigration
staff. He said asylum seekers facing deportation are often let loose when
holding centres are swamped.

Illegals tell staff they want to milk our benefits system.

The East of England MEP, deputy leader of UKIP, said securing borders, not
building more centres, was the answer.

After consulting officials, he said: "They feel the current system favours the
illegal immigrant and is open to abuse.

"The cost per detainee is the same as a police constable's salary after a year's
service.

"I know the residents of Cambridgeshire would prefer 390 extra police on the
streets than 390 illegal immigrants held in their backyard."

He said migrants can sue for unlawful detention if they win an appeal while many
of those deported just return.

Mr Bannerman added: "It is not helped by judges overturning the Border Agency's
decisions to deport those who don't deserve to stay."

gary.nicks@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: August 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COST: Bannerman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Brand building;
£5m for mouse mats and mugs with Europe logo

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 89 words


The European Parliament has agreed to a £5million deal for commemorative items
such as pencils and mugs.

Thousands of items bearing the parliament logo, including T-shirts, umbrellas
and mouse mats, will be distributed to its information offices in each member
state.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP, said: "The announcement of this contract is an
outrage in the current financial climate." A parliament spokesman said the
£5million figure was a ceiling for the four-year contract which was designed to
improve corporate identity.

Martin Banks

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

I'll speak for Britain in the US, says EU ambassador

BYLINE: James Kirkup

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 416 words


THE new European Union ambassador to Washington has suggested that he will speak
for Britain on foreign and security policy in America.

João Vale de Almeida was installed formally this week as the EU's ambassador to
the United States, and suggested that American officials should regard him as
their first point of contact for transatlantic discussions.

He is the first EU ambassador to be appointed after the controversial Lisbon
Treaty gave the EU sweeping new powers.

The Portuguese-born ambassador claimed to be "leading the show" among European
representatives in Washington.

The prospect of an EU official speaking for Britain in negotiations with its
most important ally has angered Eurosceptics, who said it showed Britain's
waning influence.

Mr Vale de Almeida's comments are also likely to alarm Sir Nigel Sheinwald, the
British ambassador in Washington. Sir Nigel is thought to have struggled to
build strong relations with the White House after the leaking in 2008 of a
memorandum he wrote for Gordon Brown questioning Barack Obama's experience.
Earlier this week, The Daily Telegraph disclosed that the Ministry of Defence
had hired Washington-based lobbyists to supplement British Embassy staff.

Mr Vale de Almeida has stressed to US officials and politicians that under the
Lisbon Treaty, he has more power than his predecessors.

"I'm the first new type of ambassador for the European Union anywhere in the
world," he said. "I'm supposed to have a wider mandate than my predecessors." He
added: "Our delegations now cover a wide spectrum of issues well beyond the
economic dimension, trade dimension and regulatory dimension, to cover all
policies in the union, including foreign policy and security policy." The Lisbon
Treaty came into force last year, taking the EU a step closer to acting as a
single entity in international affairs. The treaty created a European president
and foreign minister and gave EU diplomats new powers to speak for all 27 union
members on many issues.

MrVale de Almeida said that he did not wish to "impose himself" on member
states' ambassadors, who would continue to oversee "bilateral matters". But he
declared: "Where we have a common position, I am the one leading the show."

The Earl of Dartmouth, a UK Independence Party MEP, said the ambassador's
comments were proof that the EU diplomatic service was usurping the powers of
nation states. "The British Government will be left discussing how British
actors are portrayed in Hollywood, at best," he said.

LOAD-DATE: August 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             August 13, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

IMMIGRANT MELTDOWN

BYLINE: by GARY NICKS, Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 196 words


Staff forced to free illegals

BRITAIN'S shambolic immigration system is in "meltdown" as failed asylum seekers
are freed to make room for new inmates.

The Home Office has been forced to let illegals out of detention centres due to
overcrowding.

Euro MP David Campbell Bannerman spoke out after quizzing senior immigration
staff. He said asylum seekers facing deportation are often let loose when
holding centres are swamped.

Illegals tell staff they want to milk our benefits system.

The East of England MEP, deputy leader of UKIP, said securing borders, not
building more centres, was the answer.

After consulting officials, he said: "They feel the current system favours the
illegal immigrant and is open to abuse.

"The cost per detainee is the same as a police constable's salary after a year's
service.

"I know the residents of Cambridgeshire would prefer 390 extra police on the
streets than 390 illegal immigrants held in their backyard."

He said migrants can sue for unlawful detention if they win an appeal while many
of those deported just return.

Mr Bannerman added: "It is not helped by judges overturning the Border Agency's
decisions to deport those who don't deserve to stay."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COST: Bannerman

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 12, 2010 Thursday

Monckton warned on Lords claim

BYLINE: Leo Hickman

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 230 words


The House of Lords has stepped up its efforts to make Lord Monckton - deputy
leader of the UK Independence party - desist in his repeated claims that he is a
member of the upper house.

The push comes as Buckingham Palace has also been drawn into the affair, over
his use of a logo similar to parliament's famous portcullis emblem.

Last month Michael Pownall, clerk of the parliaments, wrote to Lord Monckton, a
hereditary peer, stressing that he should not refer to himself as a member of
the House of Lords, nor should he use any emblem representing the portcullis.

In a letter seen by the Guardian, Monckton replied this week to Pownall stating
that he considered the House of Lords Act 1999, which "purported" to exclude all
but 92 of the 650 hereditary peers from the Lords, to be "defective".

Monckton argued that the act did not remove membership because peerages are
granted by "letters patent" which are a personal gift of the monarch.

The House of Lords said yesterday it strongly rejects Monckton's interpretation.
A spokeswoman said: "Lord Monckton is not and never has been a member of the
House of Lords."

Monckton also argues that his use of the portcullis emblem, which has appeared
on his letterheads and lecture presentations, does not breach any rules. The
spokeswoman added: "The emblem is property of the Queen, and parliament has a
royal licence granted for its use."

LOAD-DATE: August 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

G&S and Ukip suits me

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 97 words


SIR - I read that Jonathan Miller disparages Gilbert and Sullivan as "Ukip set
to music" (report, August 10). How right he is. As the libretto of HMS Pinafore
says: "I, humble, poor, and lowly born, The meanest in the port division The
butt of epauletted scorn The mark of quarter-deck derision Have dared to raise
my wormy eyes Above the dust to which you'd mould me, In manhood's glorious
pride to rise, I am an Englishman, behold me!" Good natured, humorous,
pompositypricking, but with serious intent, and, above all, proud to be English.
Suits me. Godfrey Bloom MEP (Ukip) Brussels

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           August 11, 2010 Wednesday

Lords distance themselves from climate sceptic Christopher Monckton

BYLINE: Leo Hickmanguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 798 words

ABSTRACT

House of Lords steps up efforts to make Christopher Monckton stop claiming he is
a member of the upper house

FULL TEXT

The House of Lords has stepped up its efforts to make Christopher Monckton -
and  of the UK Independence party (Ukip) - desist in his repeated claims that he
is a member of the upper house. The push comes as Buckingham palace has also
been drawn into the affair over his use of a logo similar to parliament's famous
portcullis emblem.

Last month, Michael Pownall, clerk of the parliaments, wrote to Lord Monckton, a
hereditary peer, stressing that he should not refer to himself as a member of
the House of Lords, and nor should he use any emblem representing the
portcullis.

In a letter seen by the Guardian, Monckton replied this week to Pownall stating
that "the , which purported to exclude hereditary peers from membership of the
House of Lords, is defective". Monckton argued that the act, which debarred all
but 92 of the 650 hereditary peers, removed the right to sit or vote in the
upper house, but did not remove membership because peerages are granted by
"letters patent" which are a personal gift of the monarch. Monckton claimed in
the letter that "only a specific law can annul a grant. The 1999 act was a
general law."

The  said today it strongly rejects Monckton's interpretation. A spokeswoman
said: "Lord Monckton is not and never has been a member of the House of Lords.
The clerk of the parliaments has written to Lord Monckton, confirming that he
has no association with the House and advising him to stop branding himself as
such." She said Monckton's claim that the 1999 act was a general law was
"misleading".

"The 1999 act does not remove letters patent, it just ends the right to be a
member of the House by virtue of the hereditary peerage. The Act is pretty clear
and uses the term 'membership' not the 'right to sit/vote'," she added.

The Guardian has learned that Pownall is now also seeking advice from the Lord
Chamberlain, a key officer in the royal household, on the potential misuse of
the portcullis emblem due to it being the property of the Queen.

Monckton argues his use of the portcullis emblem, which has appeared on his
letterheads and lecture presentations, does not breach any rules: "My logo is
not a registered badge of parliament, and is plainly distinct from parliament's
badge in numerous material respects. The Lords do not use the portcullis at all
on their notepaper: they use the Royal Arms within an elliptical cartouche."

A House of Lords spokeswoman said: "The emblem is property of the Queen, and
Parliament has a Royal Licence granted for its use. Any misuse of the emblem by
either members or non-members breaches this licence, and if a person refuses to
stop using it the matter is drawn to the attention of the Lord Chamberlain, who
is an Officer of the Royal Household. The Lord Chamberlain has been contacted
regarding Lord Monckton's use of the emblem, and it will fall to him to follow
up on any misuse of the emblem."

The spokeswoman added: "If, following the correspondence, Lord Monckton
continues to claim to be a member of the House then the House authorities would
need to consider and assess what options are available to them."

Buckingham Palace confirmed it is "aware of this matter", but said it "can not
disclose any details on private correspondence between Buckingham Palace and an
individual". It did, though, guide the Guardian towards a  which says misuse of
the emblem is prohibited by the Trade Marks Act 1994, meaning Monckton could
potentially be liable for fines and a six-month prison term if the Palace
pursued the matter and successfully prosecuted him.

Monckton said he has yet to receive any correspondence from the Lord
Chamberlain.

Monckton, a former Conservative party policy adviser , has attracted repeated
criticism for his claims that he is a member of the Lords. In May, when giving
witness testimony upon the invitation of House Republicans to the US select
committee on energy independence and global warming,  when asked whether he had
ever served in the House of Lords. This followed  when Monckton began his
testimony: "I bring fraternal greetings from the Mother of Parliaments to the
Congress of your 'athletic democracy'."

In June, following the death of Viscount Colville of Culross, Monckton, as a
qualifying hereditary peer,  to find the replacement elected peer. However, he
failed to secure a single vote among the 29 crossbench hereditary peers eligible
to vote.

LOAD-DATE: August 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Never (no never) mock the genius of G&S;
Jonathan Miller should know better than to sneer at the Savoy Operas, says
Rupert Christiansen

BYLINE: Rupert Christiansen

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 653 words


At one level, it comes as no great surprise to learn that Sir Jonathan Miller
has "never had anything but contempt for Gilbert and Sullivan", whose operettas
he describes in a new documentary (to be broadcast on Sky Arts later this month)
as "the most boringly self-satisfied form of English drivel".

The Left-leaning sophisticated intelligentsia of which Sir Jonathan is such a
distinguished ornament has a long history of sneering at the Savoy Operas, as
part of its broader disdain for the culture of the suburban middle classes,
where G&S has always had its biggest fan base. So it's an easy thing for him to
say, in the knowledge that he'll get approving nods from his peer group.

But at another level, the jibe seems a mite ungrateful, if not self-deprecating,
because in 1986 Miller was also the creator of a marvellous production of G&S's
masterpiece The Mikado, due for its umpteenth revival at English National Opera
next year. This brilliant staging transposes the farcically Japanese town of
Titipu to a 1930s grand hotel straight out of a Marx Brothers movie: its
freshness and wit suggested that Miller had got beyond the disdain conventional
in his milieu and seen that, far from being "UKIP set to music" (as he smartly
but vacuously puts it in the documentary), The Mikado is slyly subversive and
slightly surreal.

Like all great satirists from Aristophanes to Evelyn Waugh, Gilbert was
sceptical of any firmly held political line. A grumpy old man he may have been;
smug he was not. Yes, I dare say he ticked the Tory box on election day and
stood up for "God Save the Queen", but what really drove him was the urge to
puncture pretension and pomposity. In the case of The Mikado, those qualities
are focused on the figure of Pooh-Bah, whose multi-tasking activities earned him
comparison on the Today programme last year with Peter Mandelson. In HMS
Pinafore, what infuriated (and amused) him was a figure such as Sir Joseph
Porter, who "always voted at my party's call/and never thought of thinking for
myself at all".

The Savoy Operas, in other words, aren't just a Victorian period piece, encased
in the aspic of Sullivan's music. They have the resilient and thoroughly
unselfsatisfied capacity to change shape and hue to mean different things to
different people at different times. Iolanthe, for instance, was used in 1984 by
Ned Sherrin and Alistair Beaton as the basis for a satire of Thatcherite reform;
today, in an era of coalition, some wag could surely make hay with the figure of
Iolanthe's son Strephon, the half-mortal, half-fairy prevented from entering
Parliament because, down to the waist, he is "a Tory of the most determined
description", while his legs are "a couple of confounded Radicals".

In any case, Miller's remarks won't make the slightest dent in G&S's popularity,
which continues to grow not just in this country but worldwide, fuelled both by
professional productions (such as Opera North's smash-hit version of Ruddigore
earlier this year) and by countless amateur efforts (focused this month on
Buxton, where thousands of fans are currently gathered for the annual three-week
International Gilbert and Sullivan Festival).

G&S isn't a deadweight of smugness - a totemic survival of the myth of Victorian
respectability - but a living tradition that remains at the heart and root of
just about every musical now playing in the West End or on Broadway. It is built
on Gilbert's genius for light rhymed verse and Sullivan's genius for melody,
which combine in a fusion of text and music that has rarely been equalled, let
alone surpassed.

It also feeds off the uniquely English ability to laugh about things that we
simultaneously love and respect. If this is a quality that Sir Jonathan finds
"boringly selfsatisfied", then I fear that there's something sadly lacking in
his sense of humour - and his judgment.

Comment on Rupert Christiansen's view at telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Jonathan Miller says Gilbert and Sullivan is 'Ukip set to music';
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uktelegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 275 words


After turning his guns on the theatre, saying he hadn't felt the need to visit
the West End for the past 10 years, Sir Jonathan Miller now has Gilbert and
Sullivan's operettas in his sights.

"I've never had anything but contempt for Gilbert and Sullivan," booms Sir
Jonathan, who directed a celebrated production of W S Gilbert and Arthur
Sullivan's The Mikado. "It's simply Ukip set to music."

Speaking to the actor Simon Butteriss for his five partseries Gilbert and
Sullivan: A Motley Pair, which is broadcast on Sky Arts next month, Sir Jonathan
characterises the pair's work as "boring, selfsatisfied English drivel." These
words are especially surprising from the man whose 1986 Mikado is regarded as a
classic. It starred Eric Idle as Ko-Ko and Lesley Garrett as Yum-Yum, and was
set not in ancient Japan, but in a 1920s seaside hotel with sets and costumes in
black and white.

Butteriss also talks to Germaine Greer, the feminist writer, who reserves her
fire not for Gilbert and Sullivan, but their fans. She felt that they
exemplified "racist, Ring-wing, Old England nerderie".

Sir Nicholas Hytner, the boss of the National Theatre, says that part of the
problem is the trend of the past 10 or 20 years to send up Gilbert and Sullivan
productions. He felt that they should now be performed straight.

By the way, Butteriss, an authority on Gilbert and Sullivan who has appeared in
some notable productions of their works, talks in this intelligent series with
the sort of Received Pronunctiation that I haven't heard from a presenter in
years. How much better a choice he would have made as the arts editor of the BBC
than the tiresome Will Gompertz.

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Sir Jonathan Miller feels the work of Gilbert and Sullivan is 'boring,
selfsatisfied drivel'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday

Treasury slaps down EU direct tax proposal: Plan on table next month, German
paper reports Minister says UK would use veto to block move

BYLINE: Allegra Stratton, Political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 478 words


The government yesterday moved to make clear it would not support a new European
attempt to introduce a system of direct taxation of member states by Brussels,
after the issue resurfaced with a German newspaper reporting plans would be put
forward in September.

Tory Treasury minister Lord Sassoon dismissed the idea, despite a leading
European politician giving on-the-record quotes to the German Financial Times
that he would bring the issue back to the table in a month.

All 27 EU member states currently pay a fixed amount to the EU budget in
proportion to their GDP, alongside a portion of revenue raised through
value-added tax. However, the European commission now expects plans to be put
forward which would see it allowed to levy direct taxes on member states.

The EU budget commissioner, Janusz Lewandowski, who has responsibility for the
European Union's euros 140bn (£116bn) budget, told Financial Times Deustchland
he would present his plans for direct EU taxes in September. The commissioner
singled out domestic aviation, carbon dioxide emissions and financial
transactions as areas from which Brussels could seek to raise revenue.

Lewandowski said: "I'm hearing from a number of capitals, including important
ones like Berlin, that they would like to lower their contributions (to the EU).

"Many countries want to be unburdened. In this way, the door has been opened to
think about revenues that are not claimed by finance ministers."

He added: "There are various options that would not affect the finance
ministries and have a link to European policy like a financial transaction tax,
CO2 emission auctions and an aviation scheme.

"A transaction tax can bring in a big amount of money," he said. "The others
will only contribute a smaller part to the euros 140bn a year we are spending."

The government sought to close down the story given that such a proposal, feared
by eurosceptic Tories but which could find greater sympathy from europhile
Liberal Democrats, could remind the two parties in the coalition of their deep
philosophical differences over Europe. Lord Sassoon was swift to dismiss the
idea, saying the government was opposed to direct taxes financing the EU budget.

"The UK believes that taxation is a matter for member states to determine at a
national level and would have a veto over any plans for such taxes," he said.

Ukip lost little time in condemning the proposal. Indicating the strife the
issue could potentially present for the Tories, Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom said:
"David Cameron must reject these proposals out of hand. The British people must
not be bamboozled out of their money by devious Eurocrats."

The German government also criticised the idea as contrary to the coalition
agreement in that country.

Captions:

The EU's budget commissioner singled out aviation, CO2 emissions and financial
transactions as targets for raising revenue

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

MEP VIAGRA ON US;
UK taxpayers pay for Eurocrats' sex aid drugs EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: NEWS; EXCLUSIVE; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 231 words


EURO MEPs can claim for VIAGRA on their health insurance - and the taxpayer
picks up the bill.

All Brussels officials and politicians can get the sex aid drug for free if
needed.

They can even claim for HEROIN replacement methadone under the European
Commission scheme. Other free options include WILLY implants, the UK
Independence Party discovered.

Marta Andreasen, an MEP for the party, said: "It is utterly bonkers what British
taxpayers are funding for Eurocrats.

"Surely if they want these things, they should be able to pay themselves. It is
a total waste of taxpayers' cash." Official guidelines for claims reads:
"Treatments with Viagra will from now on be reimbursable."

The document also says the cost of drugs used during withdrawal treatment for
addicts should be reimbursed in full.

It adds: "These products qualify for a special reimbursement at the rate of 100
per cent for a maximum of six months."

Last year it was revealed MEPs receive public funding for massages and feng
shui. Other perks which qualify include mud baths, hydromassage and mild
electric shock treatment.

The TaxPayers' Alliance last night blasted the wasteful perks in Brussels.
Spokesman Matthew Sinclair said: "Taxpayers expect to see their money spent on
providing essential services, not Viagra. The Government should insist on a
better deal from Brussels."

c.hartley@the-sun.co.uk

The Sun Says - Page Eight

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Free ... scheme funds Viagra pills

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            August 10, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

MEPs GET VIAGRA ON TAXPAYER

BYLINE: CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 182 words


EURO MEPs can claim for VIAGRA on their health insurance - while the taxpayer
picks up the bill.

All Brussels officials and politicians can get the sex aid drug for free if
needed.

They can even claim for HEROIN replacement methadone under the European
Commission scheme. Other free options include insertion of penile implants,
found the UK Independence Party.

UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen said: "It is utterly bonkers that British taxpayers are
funding Viagra and penile implants for Eurocrats.

"If they want this sort of thing they should be able to pay for it themselves.

It is a waste of taxpayers' cash."

Guidelines reveal the Sickness Insurance Management Committee "decided
treatments with Viagra will be reimbursable".

The document also outlines how narcotic drugs used during withdrawal treatment
or substitution treatment for drug addicts should be reimbursed in full.

The TaxPayers' Alliance last night blasted the latest wasteful perks in
Brussels.

Spokesman Matthew Sinclair said: "Taxpayers expect to see their money spent on
providing essential services, not wasted on Viagra for Eurocrats."

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 August 8, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU an absurd drain;
Your letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 57 words


HOW ridiculous that our country has had to find £3.85billion in EU fines over
the last seven years.

How this wretched body retains any supporters in the United Kingdom I will never
know. Yet the three main parties all think that the sun shines out of its large,
imperialistic, bureaucratic rear.

Don't blame me - I voted UKIP.

Dave Asher, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: August 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             August 8, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU an absurd drain;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 63

LENGTH: 58  words


HOW ridiculous that our country has had to find GBP 3.85billion in EU fines over
the last seven years.

How this wretched body retains any supporters in the United Kingdom I will never
know. Yet the three main parties all think that the sun shines out of its large,
imperialistic, bureaucratic rear.

Don't blame me - I voted UKIP.

Dave Asher, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

WE TAKE JOBS OF BENEFIT LOAFERS;
Says Romanian president 'Well done for heading to soft-touch countries'

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 755 words


THE reality of soft-touch Britain was laid bare yesterday by the president of
Romania.

Traian Basescu praised his citizens for travelling abroad to seek the jobs of
workshy locals.

Welfare payments in western countries were so high, people would rather sign on
the dole and let his countrymen take their jobs instead, he said. Although he
did not mention this country specifically, Britain is the second most spopular
destination after Germany for Romanian migrants.

The president's remarks are sure to provide encouragement for further migration
to countries like Britain as he backed his people's desire to find work overseas
instead of being a burden on the state at home.

His comments revealed why countries such as ours are a magnet for people from
all over the world. They also underlined the urgent need for the benefit reform
promised by the coalition Government, and for action to train Britain's own army
of unemployed to take jobs instead of languishing on benefits while foreign
workers fill vacancies.

Official figures estimate that some 100,000 Romanians are working in the UK, up
from 7,600 recorded as living here in the 2001 census.

Romania is one of the EU's newest members, having joined only in 2007.

Mr Basescu used a TV broadcast publicly to thank the Romanians who live and work
abroad instead of signing up for benefits at home.

"Imagine if the two million Romanians working in Italy, Spain, France, Germany
came back to ask for unemployment benefits in Romania, when we already have
deficits in the unemployment funds," he said.

Money

"So to these people that stay abroad, we have to thank them for what they are
doing for Romania."

Romania did not have enough jobs for its workforce, he said. And he credited the
boom in overseas working on workshy Westerners and their generous welfare
systems.

"Romania comes a lot behind states like Italy and Spain. In those countries, the
social protection is at a level that makes Italians and Spanish, for example,
feel comfortable to stay unemployed rather than working in hard manual tasks.

"Romanians do that hard labour for them to earn better and make more money than
they could at home." As well as the chance to work in the UK, citizens from
other EU countries can access some British benefits straight away, such as child
benefit, which they can claim even if their children are living in their home
countries. After 12 months in Britain they can apply for other payments such as
unemployment benefits, which are much higher than what they would receive in
Romania.

Fiona McEvoy, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "President Basescu has held a
mirror up to our welfare held a mirror up to our welfare culture and identified
the lack of incentives to work that mean so many UK nationals pick welfare over
work, and so many migrants flock here to cash in."

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage said: "We cannot blame the Romanians for taking what they
can get but we can blame our own Government for allowing British workers' wages
to be forced down and jobs to be handed over to those prepared to work for
less."

A spokesman for the Romanian Embassy in Britain stressed that President Basescu
had not mentioned Britain in his TV interview. He said Italy and Spain alone
accounted for about two million Romanian workers, while embassy estimates
suggested there were no more than 100,000 Romanians working in the UK.

"Most Romanians wanting to work in the UK have to apply for formal
authorisation, which is issued for skilled workers only where it is shown their
jobs could not be filled by British or other EU nationals," he said.

"Unskilled workers are restricted to agriculture and seasonal food processing."

According to a study by the Romanian recruitment website tjobs.ro, however, the
UK is the second most popular destination after Germany for Romanians seeking to
work abroad.

The number of Romania.ns coming here is expected to soar thanks to tough
austerity measures at home. A 25 per cent cut in public sector pay has seen a
surge in doctors and nurses applying for jobs in the UK.

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Does UK dole out benefits too readily?

YES: 0901 030 8346

NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYES to 80088

No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

100,000 Romanian workers in the UK

Unemployment rate UK

Romania 7.43% May 2010, Office for National Statistics

July 2010, Romanian President Basescu 7.8%

Public sector pay

UK 2 years pay freeze from next April

Romania 25% pay cuts announced to tackle deficit

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Romanian president Traian Basescu
Many Romanians come here to work but others, like these gypsy women, make a
living begging on the streets
Picture: GARY TROTTER /ISF PHOTOS

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Cameron blunder over Iran's 'nuclear weapon'

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


DAVID Cameron was accused yesterday of committing a foreign policy gaffe by
mistakenly claiming that Iran had a nuclear weapon.

Asked why he was backing Turkey to join the EU, the Prime Minister said it could
help solve the world's problems "like the Middle East peace process, like the
fact that Iran has got a nuclear weapon".

Labour immediately seized on the remark, made during a public
question-and-answer session in Hove.

Shadow Europe Minister Chris Bryant said Mr Cameron was becoming a "foreign
policy klutz".

"This is less of a hiccup, more of a dangerous habit," he said.

Defended

"Considering Iran's nuclear ambitions constitute one of the most important
foreign policy challenges facing us all, it is not just downright embarrassing
that the prime minister has made this basic mistake, it's dangerous."

He said Mr Cameron had been forced to "explain away another foreign policy
gaffe" - a reference to the diplomatic rows that erupted over his recent
comments about Pakistan.

Downing Street said the Prime Minister had meant to say that Iran appeared to be
trying to pursue a nuclear programme.

His comments over Turkey threaten to provoke a fresh immigration row after he
defended his position on the  country joining the European Union, claiming it
would aid world security and be good for British business.

And he rejected claims that Turkey's introduction into the EU would lead to an
influx of immigrants, insisting there should be "transitional controls for new
members of the EU regarding migration to Britain".

Last week Mr Cameron, speaking in the Turkish capital Ankara, signalled his

backing for the nation of 80 million people to become the first predominantly
Muslim EU member. He said: "The case for Turkish membership is indisputable."

But his remarks raised concerns from critics who fear a new wave of immigration.

Conservative MP Philip Hollobone said last night: "Turkish membership of the EU
would mean another mass wave of immigration  into the UK and it simply would not
be possible to keep the UK population below 70 million by 2030 if we let Turkey
into the EU.

"And I just take the view that the British public would not accept hundreds of
thousands of Turkish immigrants into this country." Ukip leader Lord Pearson
said: "We should trade with Turkey, we should work with Turkey, but we should
not encourage Turkey to join the EU."

...after saying sorry for 'denigrating UK'

DAVID Cameron was yesterday accused of "denigrating" Britain by a voter fuming
over his claim that this country was a "junior partner" to America against the
Nazis in 1940.

Pensioner Kathy Finn, 75, ambushed the Prime Minister during the public meeting
in Hove, East Sussex. The retired telephonist asked: "Who do you consider was
the senior partner in the Battle of Britain when we were fighting alone in the
first two-and-a-half years of the war?" outlook tomorrow: A few showers dotted
around min max min max min years of the war?"

Mr Cameron replied: "There was no senior partner. We were on our own in 1940.
What I meant to say was that I was referring to the 1940s, not 1940. You are
absolutely right and I was absolutely wrong."

Mr Cameron made the gaffe during his visit to Washington last month, when he
said in a TV interview: "We were the junior partner in 1940 when we were
fighting the Nazis." America only entered the war after Pearl Harbour, in
December 1941.

The Prime Minister told yesterday's meeting: "If I upset anyone I am profoundly
sorry." At this Mrs Finn shot back: "You denigrated your own country."

LOAD-DATE: August 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outraged Mrs Finn
Mr Cameron at yesterday's meeting in Hove

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

WE TAKE JOBS OF BENEFIT LOAFERS Says Romanian president

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 665  words


THE reality of soft-touch Britain w as laid bare yesterday by the president of
Romania.

Traian Basescu praised his citizens for travelling abroad to seek the jobs of
workshy locals.

Welfare payments in western countries were so high, people would rather sign on
the dole and let his countrymen take their jobs instead, he said. Although he
did not mention this country specifically, Britain is the second most popular
destination after Germany for Romanian migrants.

The president's remarks are sure to provide encouragement for further migration
to countries like Britain as he backed his people's desire to find work overseas
instead of being a burden on the state at home.

His comments revealed why countries such as ours are a magnet for people from
all over the world. They also underlined the urgent need for the benefit reform
promised by the coalition Government, and for action to train Britain's own army
of unemployed to take jobs instead of languishing on benefits while foreign
workers fill vacancies.

Official figures estimate that some 100,000 Romanians are working in the UK, up
from 7,600 recorded as living here in the 2001 census.

Romania is one of the EU's newest members, having joined only in 2007.

Mr Basescu used a TV broadcast publicly to thank the Romanians who live and work
abroad instead of signing up for benefits at home.

"Imagine if the two million Romanians working in Italy, Spain, France, Germany
came back to ask for unemployment benefits in Romania, when we already have
deficits in the unemployment funds, " he said.

"So to these people that stay abroad, we have to thank them for what they are
doing for Romania."

Romania did not have enough jobs for its workforce, he said. And he credited the
boom in overseas working on workshy Westerners and their generous welfare
systems.

"Romania comes a lot behind states like Italy and Spain. In those countries, the
social protection is at a level that makes Italians and Spanish, for example,
feel comfortable to stay unemployed rather than working in hard manual tasks.

"Romanians do that hard labour for them to earn better and make more money than
they could at home." As well as the chance to work in the UK, citizens from
other EU countries can access some British benefits straight away, such as child
benefit, which they can claim even if their children are living in their home
countries. After 12 months in Britain they can apply for other payments such as
unemployment benefits, which are much higher than what they would receive in
Romania.

Fiona McEvoy, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "President Basescu has held a
mirror up to our welfare culture and identified the lack of incentives to work
that mean so many UK nationals pick welfare over work, and so many migrants
flock here to cash in."

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage said:

"We cannot blame the Romanians for taking what they can get but we can blame our
own Government for allowing British workers' wages to be forced down and jobs to
be handed over to those prepared to work for less."

A spokesman for the Romanian Embassy in Britain stressed that President Basescu
had not mentioned Britain in his TV interview.

He said Italy and Spain alone accounted for about two million Romanian workers,
while embassy estimates suggested there were no more than 100,000 Romanians
working in the UK.

"Most Romanians wanting to work in the UK have to apply for formal
authorisation, which is issued for skilled workers only where it is shown their
jobs could not be filled by British or other EU nationals, " he said.

"Unskilled workers are restricted to agriculture and seasonal food processing."

According to a study by the Romanian recruitment website tjobs. ro, however, the
UK is the second most popular destination after Germany for Romanians seeking to
work abroad.

The number of Romanians coming here is expected to soar thanks to tough
austerity measures at home. A 25 per cent cut in public sector pay has seen a
surge in doctors and nurses applying for jobs in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Romanian president Traian Basescu
Many Romanians come here to work but others, like these gypsy women, make a
living begging on the streets

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             August 6, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron blunder over Iran's 'nuclear weapon'

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 390  words


DAVID Cameron was accused yesterday of committing a foreign policy gaffe by
mistakenly claiming that Iran had a nuclear weapon.

Asked why he was backing Turkey to join the EU, the Prime Minister said it could
help solve the world's problems "like the Middle East peace process, like the
fact that Iran has got a nuclear weapon".

Labour immediately seized on the remark, made during a public
question-and-answer session in Hove.

Shadow Europe Minister Chris Bryant said Mr Cameron was becoming a "foreign
policy klutz".

"This is less of a hiccup, more of a dangerous habit, " he said.

"Considering Iran's nuclear ambitions constitute one of the most important
foreign policy challenges facing us all, it is not just downright embarrassing
that the prime minister has made this basic mistake, it's dangerous."

He said Mr Cameron had been forced to "explain away another foreign policy
gaffe" - a reference to the diplomatic rows that erupted over his recent
comments about Pakistan.

Downing Street said the Prime Minister had meant to say that Iran appeared to be
trying to pursue a nuclear programme.

His comments over Turkey threaten to provoke a fresh immigration row after he
defended his position on the country joining the European Union, claiming it
would aid world security and be good for British business.

And he rejected claims that Turkey's introduction into the EU would lead to an
influx of immigrants, insisting there should be "transitional controls for new
members of the EU regarding migration to Britain".

Last week Mr Cameron, speaking in the Turkish capital Ankara, signalled his
backing for the nation of 80 million people to become the first predominantly
Muslim EU member. He said:

"The case for Turkish membership is indisputable."

But his remarks raised concerns from critics who fear a new wave of immigration.

Conservative MP Philip Hollobone said last night:

"Turkish membership of the EU would mean another mass wave of immigration into
the UK and it simply would not be possible to keep the UK population below 70
million by 2030 if we let Turkey into the EU.

"And I just take the view that the British public would not accept hundreds of
thousands of Turkish immigrants into this country." Ukip leader Lord Pearson
said: "We should trade with Turkey, we should work with Turkey, but we should
not encourage Turkey to join the EU."

LOAD-DATE: October 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Cameron at yesterday's meeting in Hove

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               83 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             August 3, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

EU SMELLS FISHY

BYLINE: CLODAGH HARTLEY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 131 words


EU bureaucrats have been blasted for eating endangered Atlantic bluefin tuna in
a Brussels restaurant after THEY called for a ban on it.

Earlier this year the EU commission said the fish should be protected - before
it was offered to them at their exclusive eaterie.

The restaurant later said it was a mistake. But critics accused the bureaucrats
of hypocrisy.

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom, who exposed the farce, said: "EU Commission bureaucrats
spout self-righteous twaddle about banning bluefin tuna while stuffing their
faces full of the same fish."

A Commission spokesman said: "We do not police our contractors' sources. But we
stipulate that the contractor must respect Belgian legislation."

Atlantic bluefin tuna is endangered but can be sold in Belgium. Environment
groups slammed the EU.

16

LOAD-DATE: August 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               84 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             August 2, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain to demand review of 'out of step' EU salaries

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 364 words


BRITAIN is preparing to challenge European Union salaries after the number of
its most senior officials, earning nearly £180,000, rose to 100 at a time of
deep cuts to public sector budgets.

The European Commission is accused of breaking its own rules in promoting
officials who are paid more than David Cameron, the Prime Minister.

Britain is already trying to block a commission demand for a six per cent budget
rise next year and is now demanding a review over how the EU rewards its staff.

Its latest round of promotions bring the number of commission director generals
to 100, a rise of a fifth over three years, and 13 more than the target ceiling
of 87 for the top posts. The number of directors has reached 313, 25 more than
the ceiling.

It means that 997 European civil servants earn £146,267 to £179,703. Mr
Cameron's annual income is £142,500.

Two of the most highly paid officials have been appointed to jobs overseeing the
implementation of austerity packages by governments - including Britain's -
around Europe. A commission spokesman said the promotions were part of plans to
step up fiscal surveillance after the Greek debt crisis. "To deepen
surveillance, it is necessary to dedicate more resources to it," he said. "The
commission believes these figures compare rather positively with ministries at
national level."

This year, British taxpayers paid £891million of the £6.5 billion Brussels
bureaucracy bill, projected to rise 4.5 per cent next year.

"EU institutions need to ensure they are not out of step with the situation
across the continent," said one British diplomat.

Inge Grassle, a German Christian Democrat MEP, compared the commission to a
"self-service shop" where officials picked senior job grades off the shelf. She
accused it of deliberately approving the promotions during summer recess to
avoid them being spotted.

"While member states are cutting budgets and slashing posts - 10,000 have gone
in the German federal administration alone - the EU is increasing the number of
'thoroughbred' officials," she said.

Godfrey Bloom, the Ukip MEP for Yorkshire, said: "This is further evidence that
the eurocrats live in a different solar system to the rest of us."

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               85 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             August 2, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Non-aggression pact can cement the coalition;
Electoral co-operation looks increasingly likely for the partners. But there are
pitfalls ahead

BYLINE: Tim Montgomerie

SECTION: BUSINESS; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 783 words


The next Labour leader is unlikely to be an Abbott, Balls or Burnham. Gordon
Brown's successor will be a Miliband. But I'm more interested in whether he will
be Mr Sun or Mr Wind.

Aesop captured the dilemma in a fable. If you want a man to take off his cloak,
do you huff and puff and force him to give it up or do you cover him with warmth
until he discards it freely? In Aesop, the sun scores a predictable victory.
Politics isn't so easy. Harriet Harman's blasts at Nick Clegg's alleged betrayal
of left-wing voters has undoubtedly blown many Liberal Democrat voters towards
Labour. In the long term, however, Mr Miliband (for surely it will be Ed or
David) is more likely to prosper by offering flowers to Liberal Democrats than
by throwing the vase at them.

A Labour leader who offers Mr Clegg "a better deal" than the Conservatives,
either now or in the next Parliament, is seen by Tory party members as the
greatest threat to the coalition. A ConservativeHome survey of more than 2,000
grassroots activists shows that they believe a sunny Labour leader would be more
destabilising than defeat of the Alternative Vote system, weak economic growth
or unhappiness on the Tory Right.

Under David Cameron the "decontamination" of the Conservative brand has
proceeded on many fronts: the emphasis on climate change and respect for gay
rights, David Davis's civil libertarianism and Iain Duncan Smith's compassionate
conservatism. Modernisation may not have won an outright election victory but it
was decisive in encouraging Mr Clegg to cohabit in Downing Street. Mr Miliband
will need his own detoxification exercise to make any future Lib-Lab arrangement
possible.

Mr Cameron knows that to keep the Lib Dems out of Labour's bed he must make the
coalition more attractive for them. Some of his aides want to turn the
"Brokeback coalition" into a full marriage but Mr Cameron is in a ménage à
trois. Too much wooing the Liberal Democrats risks a rupture with his other
partner, his own Right.

Although almost three quarters of Tory members believe that the coalition is
good for the nation, 60 per cent say that the Prime Minister has already given
away too much. Chris Huhne's opposition to nuclear power, Vince Cable''s
unhappiness at controls on immigration and a superfriendly attitude to Brussels
all worry them.

Grassroots support for the coalition cannot be taken for granted and members
resoundingly reject a full merger of the two parties - said to be the long-term
goal of some Downing Street advisers: 88 per cent told ConservativeHome that
fielding joint "coalition" candidates at the next election would be
"unacceptable". A survey of Lib Dem members would almost certainly produce
similar results.

But there is a middle way between fighting together in every seat and fighting
each other in every seat. The two parties could give each other a free pass in
seats where they are first and second placed; 55 per cent of Tory members think
such a non-aggression pact "might be necessary" although "it's too early to
say". Very few think such an arrangement "ideal" but it is a surprise that a
majority are willing even to contemplate it.

Openness to this idea might not be enough, however. When the Conservative MP
Mark Field floated the possibility in a blog, there was fury from some
rank-and-file readers.

Unhappiness from a lot of grassroots members isn't the only risk. What's the
point of having a Conservative organisation in a seat such as Torbay if it is
not allowed to challenging the sitting Liberal Democrat MP? If the Tories don't
fight every seat, the United Kingdom Independence Party or a new right-of-centre
party could use the abandoned territory as launch pads for local, European and
other elections.

Despite all the practical problems, the Tory chairman, Baroness Warsi, has
refused to rule out electoral co-operation. The Tory leadership knows that a
non-aggression pact would be huge for Mr Clegg, particularly if voters reject
electoral reform. A recent Populus survey of marginal seats found that
Conservatives would unseat nearly every Liberal Democrat MP if the election was
held now. Most would be ousted even under AV.

The polls may, of course, have shifted by the time a decision is necessary but
such a deal would cement the coalition like nothing else. It would ensure that
at least half Mr Clegg's parliamentary party was bound tightly into the
coalition's success, freeing up campaigning resources for the anti-Labour
battleground. It would also make it almost impossible for the Lib Dems to put a
Prime Minister Miliband in power, however much he shines on them.

Tim Montgomerie is editor of ConservativeHome

60 per cent think the Prime Minister has given away too much

LOAD-DATE: August 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tory grassroots won't accept the coalition becoming a full marriage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
