
                               1 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 31, 2010 Friday

Feature - The Paddy McGuffin Column - Saints and sinners of 2010;
Paddy McGuffin casts judgement on the bandits of the year

LENGTH: 626 words


Its been a funny old year with not many highs but plenty of lows - there was no
cure for cancer but we did end up with a carcinogenic coalition. We had no
shortage of disasters with Icelandic ash clouds, the Gulf of Mexico oil spill
and George Osborne's appointment as Chancellor.

Positives were few and far between, although the growing militancy of students,
the annexation of the BNP in Barking and Dagenham and Blairite lackey David
Miliband not being elected Labour leader were all causes for celebration.

So as we bid goodbye to 2010 it is time to pay proper dues to those who have
stood out in their given fields and gone above and beyond the call of duty over
the last 12 months.

Without further ado, this column presents its new - and possibly only - Annual
Awards Of The Year:

First up is the Berlusconi Award For Commitment To Political Ideology. There was
only ever one real candidate for this particular gong. Yes that's right Nick
Clegg, come on down. Clegg and his cronies jettisoned any shred of liberal
veneer they had clung to in opposition to form the Coalition Of The Shilling.
Who would have thought a millionaire former public-schoolboy would turn out to
be a Tory?

The King Herod Award For Child Development. This award is split three ways this
year because none of the major political parties have clean hands when it comes
to the travesty of tuition fees. Labour introduced them, the Tories trebled them
and the Lib Dems back-flipped like a clockwork monkey.

The Norman Tebbit Award For Community Cohesion goes to ... those perennial
favourites the West Midlands Police who - not content with beating up and
fitting up black and Asian people in the Midlands - decided to go all Man From
UNCLE by fitting spy cameras across an entire community before being forced into
a grovelling apology.

The other leading contenders, the Metropolitan Police were disqualified from
competition this year as they now appear to be totally indiscriminate when it
comes to meting out violence on the streets of the capital.

The Orange Order Traditional Route Award goes to the Tories for ditching their
frankly risible attempt to appear to be the new caring sharing party and
reverting to type so totally that if you close your eyes you could swear it was
1984.

The Rio Ferdinand Award For Ill-advised Public Speaking. There was hot
competition for this particular prize this year. Tory peer Lord Young made a
strong bid with not one but two entries, as did UKIP Euro-warrior Godfrey Bloom
with his sterling work in the field of Anglo-Germanic relations. But in the end
they were both edged out by another true-blue knee-jerk bigot, newly selected
peer Howard Flight, the former banker and Tory party chair who brayed that
welfare cuts would encourage the poor to breed.

The Richard Nixon International Memorial Award For Propriety In Public Office.
Again quite a tricky one to whittle down, what with MPs claiming for duck
islands and moat cleaning, Sarkozy being embroiled in the L'Oreal scandal and
the Ivory Coast's Laurent Gbagbo refusing to leave office after being trounced
in the elections and arresting every opposition politician he can get his hands
on.

But when it comes to scandal there can be only one choice. Yes, that's right the
Sultan Of Sleaze himself, Silvio Berlusconi. Prostitutes, Bunga Bunga, underage
consorts, vote-rigging and telling earthquake victims to enjoy their camping
holiday. All in a day's work for Italy's teflon tyrant.

And last but by no means least we come to The Changing Rooms Award For Urban
Redesign - a new award this year, and its inaugural winners have to be the
plucky tuition fees protesters for their spectacular remodelling job on Tory
headquarters.

Government doesn't get much more open than that.

Happy New Year!

LOAD-DATE: January 2, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 30, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Marine Le Pen's emulation of Ukip shows Euroscepticism is growing across the EU;

Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 416 words


SIR - You suggest (Leading article, December 28) that I should "groan" about
Marine Le Pen's wish to model her Front National in France on Ukip rather than
the BNP. Maybe we should, instead, give her a cautious welcome.

She has a lot to do to move it towards the free-trading, non-sectarian, liberal
and non-racist party that is Ukip.

Her statement does show the growing force of our arguments and the way in which
our conception of a tolerant Euroscepticism is now growing not just here in
Britain, but across the continent.

You are right, however, to highlight the weakness of our own political classes
in defending our liberties and our Judaeo-Christian heritage.

We at Ukip are happy to be seen as a standard-bearer in the defence of these
traditions - a fight we are taking to that stronghold of the BNP, Oldham, at the
by-election on January 13.

Nigel Farage MEP (Ukip)

Westerham, Kent

SIR - Immigration must be curtailed. Ukip repudiates the false and ineffectual
policy of this Coalition, which has left Britain's door wide open to as many of
the 500 million EU citizens as fancy squeezing in. Ukip's focus is on what is
best for Britain, and that centres on not paying out £48 million a day that we
can ill afford for membership of a club from which we derive absolutely no
benefit.

Don Anderson

London SW19

SIR - Shohana Khan mentions the oftencited concern that Muslims have for others
of their faith who are suffering occupation and warfare (Letters, December 28).

I wonder, though, where the outrage is when Muslims are murdered in almost daily
attacks not by foreigners but by those who claim to follow Islam, and often when
they are on their way to worship.

Stephen Marks

London N8

SIR - Some surveys show that 40 per cent of Muslims support the establishment in
Britain of Islamic law. The remaining, mostly silent, majority of Muslims should
be more vocal in demonstrating their respect for British democracy, freedom,
tolerance and the rule of law.

Barry Bond

Leigh-on-Sea, Essex

SIR - You argue that "the Front National is not an appropriate model for a party
in a country whose heritage is explicitly Christian". However, on the same day,
I read Lord Carey's claims that Labour's reforms of tolerance, equality and
fairness were eroding Christianity as the foundation of British culture.

The more indifferent our society becomes to its Christian foundation (more
people shopped online on Christmas Day than attended church), the more other
religions will tighten their grip.

James Williams

Chester

LOAD-DATE: December 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          December 29, 2010 Wednesday

Voters' dilemma in Oldham: who gets the biggest slap?: Parties unsure how public
will react to MP's disgrace Broken coalition pledges stir anger as poll nears

BYLINE: Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 943 words


The battle of the backlashes has resumed in the fogbound Pennines after the
briefest of truces over Christmas. Rival canvassing and leaflet teams are out
again on the hillsides of Oldham East and Saddleworth trying to cultivate anger
about either the disgraced former Labour MP Phil Woolas or about the coalition's
troubled record.

Both strike a resentful chord in an area already grumpy about living on the edge
of decision making, whether that means a remoteness from London or the age-old
fissure between Yorkshire and Lancashire which meet here.

But sorting out which - Woolas or Cameron-Clegg - most deserves the slap the
constituency can give at the byelection on 13 January is proving taxing.

"If Woolas did what they say, telling lies in his leaflets, then I condemn him,"
said Naeem Butt, a 30-year-old machine operator whose political interest
sharpened abruptly after he lost his job in nearby Ashton-under-Lyne three weeks
ago. "But there are a lot of coalition policies which I don't agree with at all.
Worst of all is the VAT rise to 20%. Now that I've not got a decent income, and
not a lot of hope of finding a new job straight away, that's going to affect me
plenty."

Near Butt's home in Lees, a lifelong Liberal, Joan Radcliffe, was also
undecided. Looking back to Woolas's knife-edge majority of 103 (0.2%) in May,
which an election court overturned in November because of the leaflet lies, she
originally considered the Lib Dems a shoo-in. But now, with challenging policies
compounded by the revelations concerning the unease of Lib Dem ministers, she is
less sure of backing Elwyn Watkins, who was defeated by Woolas in May and is now
standing again. "I haven't got words bad enough to tell you what I think about
Woolas," she said. "But I think these huge fees for students are completely
wrong."

Celeste Collinge, her companion on a post-Christmas shopping trip in Springhead,
agreed: "I've a 16-year-old daughter who's been on course for university, but
we've got our doubts now. We've a big gap before our next one (a primary
schoolboy) so we may be able to manage to help her, then save enough for him.
I've heard what they say about helping lower-income students, so we'll be
thinking about it. There's going to be a lot of thinking of that sort round here
over the next two weeks."

Two leaflet distributors were busy in Uppermill, where the election court sat
for four days at the civic centre. Tom Hurst and Jane Collins, the local and
Yorkshire regional organisers for Ukip, were optimistic about picking up
"traditional Conservatives who see David Cameron as a Liberal". They hoped to
benefit from rumours - plentiful locally but strongly denied by Tories - that
the Conservative party is reluctant to fight too fiercely against its coalition
partner. Saddleworth has a long history of tactical voting; it helped the
Liberals win Colne Valley and then Saddleworth and Littleborough when
constituency borders included its network of villages in those seats.

Meanwhile others were looking to the British National party, even though its
leader, Nick Griffin, ducked the contest after hinting that he would stand.

The BNP's reputation deterred 91-year-old Catherine Reed, out walking her son's
dog in the thaw, but she said Griffin was the only politician to have
highlighted her main concern. "He got it in just before the end, on Question
Time. He's against all this sex education they give children when they're so
young. It robs them of innocence and their childhood. That's what I think.
That's what I want our MP to take up."

To Ken Bennett, a former executive on the Sunday Mirror and Daily Express, who
now runs the Saddleworth Independent, anything local that might be taken up,
skilfully and energetically, could mean victory. In its ninth issue the paper
broke the news, in December, that a Voice of Saddleworth party would fight every
ward in next May's council elections, on a platform of "Saddleworth before party
politics".

Every candidate will claim to fit such a bill, but with only a fortnight to
convince voters, Watkins' previous run at the job could prove handy. The Lib
Dems have also earned points for calling the election quickly, ignoring
Westminster etiquette which gives the right to the sitting party.

"People here are longing, yearning even, for an end to all this business and the
right to have an MP making their voice heard, like everyone else," said Bennett.

Against that, Labour's Debbie Abrahams stands to pick up votes from another of
the region's many varieties of disgruntlement. Geoff Haigh, who runs the Ram's
Head, at the constituency's highest point, summed it up.

"I don't think a court should interfere with our judgment," he said of the
Woolas debacle. "We voted him in. It should be up to us to vote him out at the
next election if we want to. I'm not saying how I'll vote but Woolas was
certainly a thorough constituency MP. I'll put it like this, as my granny wrote
in my autograph book when I was a boy: 'You never know the value of water until
the well runneth dry.' "

Captions:

Ed Miliband works on the Oldham East and Saddleworth byelection campaign with
Labour's candidate, Debbie Abrahams Photograph: Anna Gowthorpe

Candidates Debbie Abrahams, Labour; Derek Adams, BNP; Kashif Ali, Conservative;
Peter Allen, Green; David Bishop, Bus Pass Elvis; Nick Delves, Monster Raving
Loony; Loz Kaye, Pirate; Stephen Morris, English Democrats; Paul Nuttall, Ukip;
Elwyn Watkins, Liberal Democrat

General election, May 2010

Phil Woolas (pictured), Labour, 14,186

Elwyn Watkins, Liberal Democrat, 14,083

Kashif Ali, Conservative, 11,773

Alwyn Stott, BNP, 2,546

David Bentley, Ukip, 1,720

Gulzar Nazir, Christian, 212

LOAD-DATE: December 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 28, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron must face the challenge of Islamisation;
THE DAILY TELEGRAPH Established 1855

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 628 words


The leader of Ukip, Nigel Farage MEP, must have groaned when he learned that the
French National Front is now modelling itself on his party. Marine Le Pen, who
is poised to take over leadership of the Front National (FN) from her father,
Jean-Marie Le Pen, describes it as a "patriotic" party that has more in common
with Ukip than the BNP. Given the sinister resonances that the words "National
Front" have in Britain, Miss Le Pen has presented Ukip's opponents with a
seasonal gift. "Ukip - backed by the French National Front" is a rhetorical
swipe worthy of David Cameron's description of the party's supporters as
"fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists".

We should not, however, be too quick to dismiss reports that a sanitised Front
National has succeeded in reaching out to a new constituency. The FN's selling
point is its opposition to the "Islamisation" of French public life - but not,
it is careful to add, to Islam itself. Miss Le Pen claims that pork is being
taken off the menu in French schools and that state funds are being used to
build "ostentatious mosque cathedrals". She may never be elected president, but
over a quarter of French voters approve of her; at no point in the history of
the Fifth Republic has an aggressive Right-wing party enjoyed such support among
the middle classes.

It may seem inconceivable that British politics could move in the same
direction. But we should not be too relaxed about the fact that populist
Right-wing parties have never broken into the mainstream of our politics. Two
points need to be made.

First, that Muslims have migrated to Britain in enormous numbers over the past
40 years; one of the heaviest waves of immigration was encouraged by the last
government. The Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life estimates that there are
2,869,000 Muslims in Britain, an increase of 74 per cent on its previous figure
of 1,647,000, which was based on the 2001 census. No demographic statistics are
reliable in an era of open borders, but such an expansion is unprecedented.

The second point is that - different political traditions notwithstanding -
Britain is beginning to experience French-style anxiety about Islamisation. The
fact that many terrorists are Muslims may lead to unfair assumptions about the
loyalty of British Muslims. But, at a time when - according to some surveys -
around 40 per cent of the Muslim community support the establishment of Sharia,
fears of social fracture are understandable. Meanwhile, government attempts to
ease tension by empowering to unelected "community leaders" have caused huge
resentment. It is worth noting that the Oldham and Saddleworth by-election next
month was caused by the disqualification of a Labour MP caught stirring up
anti-Muslim sentiment.

These tensions must not be allowed to grow, especially when collapsing party
allegiances could create space for Right-wing populism. Responsible politicians
must accomplish a difficult double manoeuvre. On the one hand, they should
resist the anti-Muslim dog whistle that Phil Woolas allowed to be blown on his
behalf. The Front National is not an appropriate model for a political party in
a country whose heritage, unlike that of France, is explicitly Christian and
tolerant. We trust that Mr Farage will repel Miss Le Pen's advances. On the
other hand, the Government needs to start dismantling an Islamisation that
threatens the freedoms of ordinary Britons - including Muslims who are confined
to ghettos that can be difficult to leave, especially for women.

In the long run, halting this erosion of freedom may prove just as important a
challenge for the Coalition as easing the pain of cuts. Few subjects are more
difficult to discuss without causing offence. Even so, this particular
conversation is long overdue.

LOAD-DATE: December 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 27, 2010 Monday

DID I SAY THAT?!

LENGTH: 1319 words


Colunn

WHAT was the year's daftest celebrity quote? There are plenty to choose from Ñ
as you'll discover in our hilarious Quotes Of The Year Quiz. All you have to do
is guess the identity of the speakers...

1: '"Oi, you, how about it?" doesn't, in general, work on us women. Not because
we aren't fond of a little how's-your-father, but because we are much too keen
on sex to squander it on undeserving passers-by.'

A: Janet Street-Porter; B: Arlene Phillips; C: Vanessa Feltz; D: Coleen Nolan.

2: 'Have you heard that lots of women are having affairs with other women and
their husbands don't mind?'

A: Jilly Cooper; B: Richard Madeley; C: Noel Edmonds; D: Tess Daly.

3: 'I don't drink Ñ but I'd hate anyone to leave my house sober.'

A: John Hurt; B: Anne Robinson; C: Martin Amis; D: Felicity Kendal.

4: 'Guys don't care what you look like naked.'

A: Jennifer Saunders; B: Julia Roberts; C: Gok Wan; D: Fern Britton.

5: 'I know there are people who don't vomit at the sight of me Ñ so that's at
least something.'

A: Katie Waissel; B: Victoria Beckham; C: John Leslie: D: Stephen Fry.

6: 'The first thing I do when I wake up is kiss my (four) dogs, all of whom
sleep on top of me.'

A: Bruce Forsyth; B: Liz Hurley; C: Michael Heseltine; D: Cheryl Cole.

7: 'I've abused my body. Not with drugs Ñ I must be the only person in my set
not to have done coke Ñ but with work.'

A: Max Clifford; B: Lulu; C: Sir Stuart Rose; D: Cliff Richard.

8: 'I've got a running machine at home and stare at it from time to time. But to
actually climb on? I get a nosebleed at the very thought.'

A: Ray Winstone; B: Graham Norton; C: Alan Carr; D: Eamonn Holmes.

9: 'Being named a role model immediately makes me want to go out and score a
gram of cocaine.'

A: Emma Thompson; B: Lenny Henry; C: Daniel Radcliffe; D: Leona Lewis.

10: 'I can't bear underwear and have done without it for 20 years.'

A: Cristiano Ronaldo; B: Kirstie Allsopp; C: Alice Cooper; D: Jeremy Kyle.

11: 'Women like bad boys. I just think it's a kind of given. At a certain age
you figure out what works for you Ñ and being a good boy never worked for me.'

A: Leslie Phillips; B: Shane Ritchie; C: Jude Law; D: Shane Warne.

12: 'I choose the way I eat according to the way animals have sex. I think fish
are very dignified with sex. So are birds. But pigs, not so much. So I don't eat
pig meat or things like that. I eat fish and fowl.'

A: Nicolas Cage; B: Kerry Katona: C: Ozzy Osbourne; D: Nigel Havers.

13: 'The book I have read more times than any other is undoubtedly The
Gruffalo.'

A: Jamie Oliver; B: Nick Clegg; C: Jane Asher; D: Samantha Cameron.

14: 'I don't think there's anything wrong with cream and butter Ñ I see them as
moisturiser for the insides.'

A: Nigella Lawson; B: Clarissa Dickson Wright; C: Joanna Lumley; D: Dawn French.

15: 'I try to be as vain as I reasonably can without losing sight of the fact
that I'm not great-looking.'

A: Iggy Pop; B: David Bowie; C: Paul McCartney: D: Bono.

16: 'People say I look like a scarecrow that's robbed a bondage shop.'

A: Helena Bonham Carter; B: Shirley Williams; C: Bob Geldof; D: Russell Brand.

17: 'My bum and I have had a hate relationship for 40 years. I need a bum lift,
and by that I mean someone who walks around behind me lifting it up. My
grandmother used to say: "You can put a cup of tea on that."'

A: Carol Vorderman; B: Myleene Klass; C: Jennifer Lopez; D: Karren Brady.

18: 'I bl**** love sleep Ñ if I could have 72 hours a night, I would.'

A: Sarah Kennedy; B: Imelda Staunton; C: Gordon Brown; D: Prince Harry.

19: 'I'm 52 but I look 35, don't I?'

A: Wagner; B: Gillian McKeith; C: Anneka Rice; D: Alastair Campbell.

20: 'I have the same three-course breakfast every day Ñ a cigarette, a coffee
and a cough.'

A: Sting; B: Marco Pierre White; C: Peter Stringfellow; D: Keith Richards.

21: 'Strictly Come Dancing? I'd be too good for it. I know too much. I once
jived with Princess Diana.'

A: David Dimbleby; B: John Travolta; C: Vince Cable; D: Wayne Sleep.

22: 'I really don't like myself, sometimes.'

A: Darren Day; B: John Terry; C: Rod Liddle; D: Lady Gaga.

23: 'I don't work very hard and earn very good money. All I have to do is not
fall apart, get ill or be completely hungover.'

A: Claudia Winkleman; B: Kate Moss; C: Christine Bleakley; D: Zoe Ball.

24: 'The health benefits of sex are overrated Ñ you can be perfectly happy and
healthy if you're not having sex Ñ the Pope seems in pretty good shape, doesn't
he?'

A: Ann Widdecombe; B: Simon Callow; C: David Starkey; D: Boy George.

25: 'I love spending. I recently bought a Damien Hirst. It cost a few hundred
thousand.'

A: Liam Gallagher; B: Michael Caine; C: J.K. Rowling; D: James Caan.

26: 'Once they're past the teenage crush period, I don't think the majority of
women think about sex that much. They put up with it, with the repetitiveness,
the ridiculousness, the inconvenience and the disappointment.'

A: Maureen Lipman; B: Judy Finnigan; C: Sharon Stone; D: Liz Jones.

27: 'My lower body is really firm. I could crack walnuts with my buttocks!'

A: Gavin Henson; B: Sharron Davies; C: Tom Daley; D: Arnold Schwarzenegger.

28: 'I would like to be a duck. They get fed, they don't have money problems and
they go on holiday for free in big groups of friends.'

A: Phil Collins; B: Mika; C: Lily Allen; D: Jason Donovan.

29: 'I was once called "Stalin in high heels". It was an accurate description.'

A: Natasha Kaplinsky; B: Charlotte Church; C: Tina Brown; D: Anna Wintour.

30: 'I was born with extra fingers.'

A: Kate Bush; B: Gemma Arterton; C: John Redwood; D: Professor Brian Cox.

31: 'I am occasionally guilty of self-love: after a drink, in a mirror in a not
well-lit toilet, and provided I look at myself straight on, I sometimes think
I'm not that ugly. Side-on, though, I'm still a ghastly sight.'

A: Andrew Lloyd-Webber; B: Adrian Chiles; C: Jamie Cullum; D: Lembit Opik.

32: 'I hate my feet. They're my least favourite thing in the world. They're so
vulgar, and looking at them now makes me want toÊcry!'

A: Billie Piper; B: Dannii Minogue; C: Kylie Minogue; D: Kate Winslet.

33: 'The best advice I ever got was from Kate Moss. She said to avoid the food
on shoots and get a take-away from McDonald's.'

A: Lizzy Jagger; B: Stella McCartney; C: Lisa Snowdon; D: Sir Philip Green.

34: 'I am very fond of my silver dung beetle and often put it in front of me
when eating.'

A: David Attenborough; B: The Duchess of Northumberland; C: The Marquess of
Bath; D: Ricky Gervais

35: 'I believe in reincarnation. I think my thoughts and feelings are an energy
that's mine and mine alone, and I don't think it can die. You just shed your
skin like an old outfit. See you round next time.'

A: Jo Wood; B: Jose Mourinho; C: Pamela Stephenson; D: Phil Collins.

36: 'If an ageing sex symbol like me starts waving the red flag of caution over
how low moral standards have plummeted, you know it's got to be pretty bad.'

A: Jane Fonda; B: Raquel Welch; C: Paul O'Grady; D: Joan Collins.

37: 'I voted for Ukip because I STILL haven't forgiven the Germans for what they
did to the Jews.'

A: Piers Morgan; B: Julie Burchill; C: Sacha Baron Cohen; D: Jeremy Clarkson.

38: 'I know I look invisible until I put on make-up. Somebody once said that I
am like Cellophane tape Ñ without make-up you don't really notice me.'

A: Fern Cotton; B: Patsy Kensit; C: Britt Ekland; D: Ruby Wax.

39: 'I can't stand olives Ñ they're just a foul tasting grape.'

A: Peter Mandelson; B: Jeremy Paxman; C: Natalie Imbruglia; D: Fabio Capello.

40: 'It's flattering to be compared with Audrey Hepburn. But she didn't have
Shrek cheeks and a wonky mouth.'

A: Carey Mulligan; B: Cameron Diaz; C: Hilary Swank; D: Renee Zellweger.

ANSWERS

1 (C); 2 (A); 3 (B); 4(B); 5(D); 6(B); 7(C); 8(A); 9 (A); 10(D); 11(C); 12 (A);
13 (B); 14 (A); 15 (A); 16 (D); 17(D); 18(B); 19(D); 20 (B); 21 (A); 22(C);
23(A); 24(B); 25(D); 26 (D); 27 (B); 28 (B); 29 (C); 30(B); 31 (B); 32 (A); 33
(A); 34 (B); 35 (A); 36 (B); 37 (B); 38 (D); 39 (C); 40 (A)

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 27, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

They said what? Quotes of the year from the famous and the infamous;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uktelegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 346 words


Did they really say that? They surely did. The things that the famous - and the
infamous - told Britain's best-informed diary over the past year.

"We live in the same world, John Bercow and me - not big enough to play James
Bond; not small enough to be adopted by Madonna."

Ronnie Corbett (right) defending the Speaker after an MP branded him "a dwarf".

"The Labour Party has had enough of soap operas within families to last us all a
lifetime, so I don't think that Yvette and I will be providing Act Two."

Ed Balls telling Mandrake that neither he nor his wife Yvette Cooper (below)
wanted the shadow chancellorship.

"I don't get it. It seems predatory and I don't really approve."

Emma Thompson on middleaged women who pursue younger men.

"Too pathetic for words."

Playwright Sir Ronald Harwood on Blood and Gifts, a play staged at the National,
which included an invocation for Mrs Thatcher to be sodomised.

"No one has the right to live in London." London resident Robert Powell urging
BBC employees to go to Salford.

"Ukip set to music." Sir Jonathan Miller on the work of Gilbert and Sullivan.

"They should be legalised, the lot of them, as far as I am concerned." Jane
Asher on relaxing Britain's drugs laws.

"Believe it or not, she is shy."

Photographer Mario Testino on Kate Moss.

"She's a bit C.O.M.M.O.N. She's all right on the TV with the volume off."

Barry Humphries on Julia Gillard, Australia's first female prime minister.

"After breastfeeding three children, I'm amazed that people still think I have a
cleavage worth complaining about."

Susannah Reid, the BBC presenter, after viewers complained she was showing too
much cleavage.

"Gravity pulls your face down so keep smiling."

Joanna Lumley's tip for staying young.

"I actually think it just comes down to respect for the viewer."

Mark Austin of ITN on why he believes television journalists should wear ties.

"I thought we had got over the idea that Jesus always had to be a tall, white
man with blue eyes and long, blond hair. "

Bonnie Greer on a Christian theatre group's insistence on casting a "male, white
actor" as Jesus.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            December 27, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

I'll defend France from Islamisation, says new Le Pen;
INTERVIEW Daughter of firebrand founder of National Front prepares to take the
reins and challenge Sarkozy in presidential race

BYLINE: Henry Samuel

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 780 words


MARINE Le Pen promised to defend France from creeping "Islamisation" days before
she was expected to take over from her father as head of the National Front
party.

The 42 year-old is seen as a serious threat to President Nicolas Sarkozy if
chosen to succeed Jean-Marie Le Pen at a mid-January party congress almost 40
years after he founded the party.

"The progressive Islamisation of our country and the increase in
political-religious demands are calling into question the survival of our
civilisation," she said.

"We are fighting against Islamism, not Islam. Islamism is the will to impose
Shariah for all as civil, political and religious law. We Western societies are
fighting against Islamism all around the world.

"We have sent our kids to Afghanistan to be killed to fight against Islamism,
and we don't have the right in France through words and political action to
fight it? That seems totally absurd to me."

Miss Le Pen said examples of creeping Islamisation included pork being taken off
the menu in certain French schools and the fact that 22 Quick fast food
restaurants were offering exclusively Halal burgers.

She also claimed that Muslim communities were receiving hidden French government
funds to build "increasingly ostentatious mosque-cathedrals" or ones funded by
Saudi Arabia.

"In reality, it's asking French people to increasingly submit themselves to the
Muslim religion. That goes totally against the secular principles of the French
republic," she said, adding that the issue would be a "key theme" of the 2012
presidential elections.

Miss Le Pen, a twice-divorced mother of three, provoked outrage among the French
political mainstream early in December by likening Muslims praying in the
streets to the Nazi occupation of France, minus the "tanks and soldiers".

Her outburst received high French backing. According to an opinion poll, 54 per
cent of sympathisers of Mr Sarkozy's conservative UMP party backed Miss Le Pen's
comments, while it received the support of 39 per cent of all French.

In line with other Right-wing populist parties from the Netherlands to Italy,
her words have clearly struck a chord beyond the FN's traditional electorate,
with analysts predicting that she could woo chunks of France's lower-middle
classes hard-hit by the economic crisis. Dominique Reynié, a political analyst,
said: "The French no longer only see the FN as an extreme-Right party but as a
populist and popular party transcending the Right and Left."

An Ipsos poll has just given Miss Le Pen a 27 per cent approval rating. One poll
suggested that up to 17 per cent of the French intended to vote for her should
she run for president in 2012 - a good nine points more than her father was
polling two years before he took 17 per cent of the vote in the 2002
presidential election and shocked France by reaching the second round of voting.

As a result, she said, Mr Sarkozy was scared she would knock him out of the
first round in 2012 and then woo enough of his electorate to beat a Left-wing
candidate.

Jean-François Copé, the head of the UMP party, said: "It's undisputable: the FN
has been rising regularly in recent months. We are in danger from an electoral
point of view."

Miss Le Pen is expected to be anointed the successor to her 82-year-old father
at the party congress on Jan 15-16.

To ensure the party leadership remained in the family, she had been playing a
double game - projecting a relatively moderate image to the wider electorate,
while trying to prove to the 40,000 or so party faithful that she had lost none
of her father's hard-Right vitriol.

She distanced herself from her father's notorious claims that the Nazi gas
chambers were a "detail of history" and that the German occupation of France was
"not particularly inhuman". Unlike him, she had no plans to ban abortions and
promised a referendum on reinstating the death penalty.

She said she meant to reach out to "French from all walks of life: Left and
Right, middle classes, working classes, upper classes".

The FN, she said, was neither racist nor xenophobic but simply a "patriotic"
party with more in common with Britain's UK Independence Party and its
"opposition to the totalitarian character of the European Union and its desire
to remove people's sovereignty" than the BNP. She praised David Cameron's pledge
to cut net annual immigration to Britain from about 200,000 to "tens of
thousands", saying the French government had utterly failed to deal with legal
or illegal immigration.

President Sarkozy has been telling visitors he has the FN under control, but
given his deep unpopularity and France's stilldivided and ineffectual Left, Miss
Le Pen could pose a highly dangerous threat in 2012.

LOAD-DATE: December 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marine Le Pen with her father, who founded the party in 1972
CHARLES PLATIAU/REUTERS & AFP/GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                               December 26, 2010
                                 First Edition

Fingers on the buzzer!;
The IoS bumper Boxing Day quiz of 2010 Who could forget Gaga's gory frock, the X
Factor talent, or spring's very strange political liaison (and we don't mean the
coalition). Matthew Bell tests your knowledge of the news, people and stinging
insults that make the past 12 months a time to remember

BYLINE: Matthew Bell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1382 words


People

A. What first was 22-year-old Kenyan maid Margaret Lekartgi able to claim?

B. Who was described as "bang on trend" for wearing red Prada shoes to meet the
Queen?

C. For which summer celebrity wedding did we have Pedro Almodovar to thank?

D. Lady Gaga grabbed headlines for wearing a meat dress (right) at the MTV
Awards. But it's a little-known fact that she was given a salad bikini
afterwards. True or false?

E. Who is accused of punching Oksana Grigorieva in the face?

Politics

A. What was the first thing Alan Johnson planned to do as Shadow Chancellor?

B. "I'm afraid to tell you there's no money left. Good luck!" Who wrote this
memo, and who found it?

C. What happened in the Moët & Chandon room at the Hotel du Vin in Birmingham on
29 April?

D. "You seem to be a bit dim, if you don't mind me saying." Who said that to
whom?

E. Whose election campaign nose-dived at Hinton-in-the-Hedges, Northamptonshire?

Deaths

Of the people who died in 2010, who:

A. Claimed to have written obscenities in the lining of Prince Charles's suits?

B. Was wiped out in "the most tragic event in that [European] country's post-war
history"?

C. Drew literary inspiration from working in a bottle factory?

D. Left his son "a bank of memories that can never be exhausted"?

E. Was born in Sydney and died in Switzerland, but had an Italian nickname?

TV

A. Which Leipzig-born composer enjoyed a dubious reincarnation?

B. McFly (below) were the last band ever to play on which TV programme on 4
September?

C. Which real-life lord tried to buy the stately-home location (right) for
Downton Abbey in the summer?

D. What reality of British life interrupted Big Brother on Day 70?

E. How did heiress Georgiana Bronfman's husband displease her?

News

A. What was destroyed in seven hours on 5 October?

B. Commander Andy Coles was not astute enough to keep his position. What was his
mistake?

C. Which former member of the Birmingham Bach Choir was branded "worse than
Hitler", and why?

D. To whom did Paul Gascoigne give a can of lager, a phone, and some chicken?

E. "It has been the worst year, the worst in my life ever." Which fevered
celebrity said this?

Sport

A. These four countries made it to the World Cup semi-finals. Put them in the
correct order on the podium:

Germany, Netherlands, Uruguay, Spain.

B. Which horse won the Cheltenham Gold Cup: Kauto Star, Denman, or Imperial
Commander?

C. Serena Williams won the Wimbledon women's singles. How many times has she won
it before?

D. Who retired from professional cricket on 16 September, aged 32?

E. What did Boris Becker, Joe Cole and Paula Radcliffe (right) all do this year?

IoS stories

A. We revealed Val Hudson to be the author of which surprise best-selling
memoir?

B. Who said: "All we get is this permanent negative nit-picking from the left.
Why is it that it's The Independent on Sunday ringing me up about this? You just
want to say - relax!"

C. Who was accused of being "snobbish, vain, and obsessed with penises"?

D. It sold for £9m, but Brian Sewell described it as "an uncomfortable Rubens"
that "didn't quite ring true". Whose family heirloom was this painting?

E. "I was a student once as well. It's great going on demos and really having a
crack at the government of the day." Who said this?

Predictions of the year

True or false? Which of these predictions were made in 2010?

A. "This winter could be unusually mild and dry, with temperatures at least C
higher than last year's big freeze." The Met Office.

B. "England to win the World Cup." JP Morgan analysts

C. "I predict that David Cameron ... will fail to form a government ... and will
never become prime minister." James Macintyre, the political correspondent of
the New Statesman.

D. "I do have a prediction and it is that David Miliband will win." Nick
Robinson, BBC political editor.

E. "Prince William (left) will announce his engagement in November, for a
wedding the following spring." Tina Brown, the former editor of Tatler.

Picture round

Identify the faces above

A. Clue: Don't cry for her, but for her husband. B. Clue: Killing time?

C. Clue: She's the one. D. Clue: Friend of the Firm.

What links the following?

A. Shrien Dewani

B. Vanessa Perroncel

C. Ricky Hatton

D. Andy Coulson

Numbers round

Match the figure to the statement:

A. 12

B. 14

C. 52

D. 104

E. 195

1. Millions paid for a Chinese Ming vase at Bainbridges auction house in
Ruislip.

2. Billions paid in Kraft takeover of Cadbury.

3. Number of staff dismissed by the Beckhams this year in cutbacks.

4. Millions spent on Bloody Sunday inquiry.

5. Millions paid by Richard Desmond for channel Five.

Quiz of the Year 2010 - Answers

People A. As Prince William and Kate Middleton's maid in Kenya, she was the
first member of the public to learn of their engagement. It would be a month
before the rest of the world, including the Queen, found out. B. Pope Benedict
XVI. C. Penelope Cruz and Javier Bardem - they first met on the set of Jamon
Jamon in 1992. D. True. It was presented to her on the Ellen DeGeneres Show
later that evening. E. Mel Gibson, her ex-boyfriend, with whom she split this
year. Politics A. "Buy an economics primer." B. Outgoing Treasury Secretary Liam
Byrne. It was found by his successor, David Laws. C. William Hague spent the
night with his special adviser, Chris Myers. D. Labour MP Chris Bryant to Sky
News presenter Kay Burley. E. Ukip leader Nigel Farage, who survived a crash in
a light aircraft. Deaths A. Alexander McQueen. B. Polish president Lech
Kaczynski and dozens of senior Polish officials died in a plane crash in Russia.
C. Beryl Bainbridge, the Booker-nominated author who wrote The Bottle Factory
Outing. D. Ian Cameron, the Prime Minister's father. E. Soprano Dame Joan
Sutherland, aka La Stupenda. TV A. Wagner, the flamboyant X Factor contestant of
questionable talent, became more famous than his namesake, composer of The Ring
Cycle. B. GMTV, which was replaced by Daybreak, hosted by Adrian Chiles and
Christine Bleakley. C. Andrew Lloyd Webber asked the Earl of Carnarvon if he
would sell his ancestral home, Highclere Castle, near Newbury, Berkshire. The
offer was flatly rejected. D. A flash flood forced Channel 4 producers to
evacuate the Big Brother house. E. Nigel Havers agreed to take part in I'm A
Celebrity, Get Me Out of Here, against his wife's wishes. She promptly fled to
Kenya to avoid the embarrassment. News A. Hastings Pier, in a fire. B. The
captain of the world's most advanced nuclear submarine, the £1.2bn HMS Astute,
ran it aground off the Isle of Skye. C. Mary Bale became an internet hate figure
after being caught on CCTV picking up Lola the cat, dumping her in a wheelie
bin, and walking off. D. Raoul Moat, the gunman on the run in Rothbury, a former
friend of Gazza. E. Cheryl Cole, who caught malaria and split from her husband,
the footballer Ashley Cole. Sport A. Spain, Netherlands, Germany, Uruguay. B.
Imperial Commander, though it had been tipped as a two-horse race between Denman
and Kauto Star. C. Three, making it her fourth victory. D. Freddie Flintoff. E.
Have children: Becker's fourth, Cole's first and Radcliffe's second. IoS stories
A. A Simples Life: The Life and Times of Aleksandr Orlov, a fictional Russian
meerkat. B. Julian Fellowes, fending off accusations of plagiarism in his script
of Downton Abbey. C. Rachel Johnson, editor of The Lady, by the magazine's
owner, Julia Budworth. D. Charles Spencer. E. Nick Clegg. Predictions of the
year They were all genuine, if plain wrong, predictions, except E. Tina Brown
correctly predicted a royal engagement, but her timing was out - she said there
would be a June announcement followed by a wedding in November 2010. Picture
round A. Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner, president of Argentina, whose husband
and predecessor, Nestor, died in October. B. Ray Gosling, who was charged with
wasting police time after claiming, during a BBC programme, to have killed a gay
lover. C. Ayda Field, who married boyfriend Robbie Williams in August. D. Mike
Tindall, England rugby player, who became engaged to Princess Anne's daughter,
Zara Phillips. What links the following? They were all clients of the publicist
Max Clifford this year, except ex-News of the World editor Andy Coulson. The
paper paid Clifford a reported £1m not to go to court over allegations that it
had hacked his phone. Numbers round A. 2; B. 3; C. 1; D. 5; and E. 4.

LOAD-DATE: December 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

PICTURES OF THE YEAR

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 14,15,50,51

LENGTH: 4818 words


JANUARY 12

Haiti suffers its worst earthquake for over 200 years. Hundreds of thousands are
killed, and buildings in and around the capital, Port-au-Prince, are wrecked,
including the National Palace and the cathedral

JANUARY 14

Drivers on a Moscow motorway slow to a crawl as a giant electronic billboard
broadcasts a pornographic film in place of advertising clips. The company that
owns the screen blames hackers for the surprise display

JANUARY 19

Mahmoud al-Mabhouh, co-founder of the military wing of Hamas, is assassinated in
a hotel room in Dubai. Police believe he was killed by a hit squad from Mossad
carrying British, Irish and other European passports

JANUARY 22

Two brothers, aged 11 and 12, are jailed for the torture of two younger boys in
Edlington, South Yorkshire. A judge at Sheffield crown court says the
perpetrators 'got a real kick out of hurting and humiliating' their victims

JANUARY 27

Apple unveils its touchscreen tablet computer, the iPad (right). Demand in the
US means Britons have to wait until May to get their hands on the device.
Meanwhile, competitors begin to launch their own tablets

JANUARY 29

Questioned for six hours by the Chilcot inquiry about his decision as prime
minister to take Britain to war against Iraq, Tony Blair is unrepentant: Saddam
Hussein had to be removed. Outside (right) protesters shout 'liar' and
'murderer'

FEBRUARY 2

The US company Kraft Foods finalises the takeover of the historic British
chocolate-maker Cadbury, which is valued at £11.5 billion. At least 400 jobs are
lost and some production is transferred to Poland

FEBRUARY 11

Alexander McQueen is found hanged in his flat in Mayfair. An inquest later finds
that the 40-year-old fashion designer, mourning the death of his mother nine
days earlier, had taken a cocktail of dangerous drugs

FEBRUARY 19

In Vancouver, Britain wins its first solo gold medal at the Winter Olympics for
30 years, as Amy Williams, 27 (right), sledges to victory in the women's
skeleton event. She says her medal 'is big, shiny and heavy and doesn't leave my
side'

FEBRUARY 27

A powerful earthquake in Chile (right) kills 500 and triggers a tsunami across
the Pacific, resulting in massive waves off Japan, California and Hawaii. The
8.8-magnitude quake may even have shifted the Earth's axis slightly

MARCH 6

A gang of masked robbers, armed with rifles and machetes, raid a poker
tournament at the Grand Hyatt hotel in Berlin, making off with a large part of
the (EURO)1m prize. A police manhunt leads to several convictions

MARCH 26

An explosion tears into the hull of a South Korean naval ship, the Cheonan, near
the maritime border with North Korea, killing 46 of the 104 on board. An
international investigation later blames a North Korean torpedo

MARCH 29

Two women carry out suicide bombings on the Moscow metro during the morning rush
hour, killing 39 people. A Chechen rebel leader, Doku Umarov, later claims he
ordered the attacks and threatens further atrocities

MARCH 30

Researching the 'big bang' that created the universe more than 13 billion years
ago, nuclear scientists finally succeed in making proton beams collide in the
Large Hadron Collider, deep beneath the French-Swiss border

APRIL 3

The Afrikaner activist Eugene Terreblanche is murdered on his farm near
Ventersdorp, South Africa. The founder and leader of the far-right AWB (right)
was reportedly killed by two black workers after a dispute over unpaid wages

APRIL 6

Gordon Brown travels to Buckingham Palace to ask the Queen to dissolve
parliament. Announcing an election for May 6, he asks the voters for a 'clear
and straightforward mandate' for an unprecedented fourth Labour term

APRIL 10

Poland's president, Lech Kaczynski, is among 96 killed when a plane crashes in
fog in Russia (right), en route to mark the Katyn massacre of 1940, when
thousands of Poles were killed by Russian forces

APRIL 14

An earthquake strikes Yushu, a predominantly Tibetan area of Qinghai province in
northwest China, killing over 2,600, destroying thousands of houses (right) and
part of the 12th-century Thrangu Buddhist monastery

APRIL 22

Two days after a fatal explosion on the Deepwater Horizon oil rig in the Gulf of
Mexico (right), a second blast causes the rig to sink and begins the biggest
offshore oil spill in US history. BP gets most of the blame

APRIL 24

The Foreign Office issues a public apology after a memo by a junior civil
servant comes to light, suggesting that Pope Benedict XVI should open an
abortion clinic and launch a Benedict brand of condoms on his state visit

MAY 2

European finance ministers and the IMF agree on a three-year package of around
£95 billion in emergency loans for Greece. In return, the debt-ridden country
announces further spending cuts and tax rises

MAY 11

Five days after Britain's general election, Gordon Brown resigns as prime
minister. The Browns (right) leave their home in Downing Street for the last
time and the public gets a rare glimpse of their two boys, Fraser and John

MAY 16

England wins its first world title in limited-overs cricket, beating Australia
in the ICC World Twenty20 final in Barbados by seven wickets, with 18 balls
remaining. Kevin Pietersen and Craig Kieswetter clock up a 111-run partnership

MAY 19

Five highly valuable paintings are stolen from the Museum of Modern Art in
Paris. CCTV footage shows a lone masked thief taking a Picasso, a Matisse, a
Modigliani, a Braque and a Léger, said to be worth over £80m in total

MAY 23

The Duchess of York says sorry for her 'serious lapse in judgment' after she is
secretly filmed offering to sell access to Prince Andrew, her ex-husband, for
£500,000 to a News of the World reporter posing as a wealthy businessman

MAY 31

Nine activists are killed when Israeli naval forces storm a convoy of ships
sailing from Cyprus to Gaza with humanitarian supplies. The Freedom Flotilla
(right) was intent on defying Israel's blockade of Gaza, in force since 2007

JUNE 2

Derrick Bird (right), a 52-year-old taxi driver, goes on a shooting spree in
Cumbria. He kills 12 - including his twin brother, David - and injures 11 others
before taking his own life. Locals say they knew him as a 'nice guy'

JUNE 9

Researchers announce that the world's oldest leather shoe (right) has been found
in Armenia. It is estimated to be 5,500 years old, predating Stonehenge by
hundreds of years. It is a right shoe. The left one is still missing

JUNE 14

Right: Nasa begins to dismantle its spaceflight programme Constellation. The
plan was to send manned spacecraft to the moon, Mars and beyond - but Obama
canned the project, which could have ended up costing £690m

JUNE 15

The Saville inquiry concludes that there was no justification for British
soldiers to fire on marchers in Londonderry on Bloody Sunday in 1972, killing
13. David Cameron says he is 'deeply sorry' for the incident

JUNE 20

After more than nine years of war in Afghanistan, Britain's military death toll
reaches 300 as a Royal Marine dies in hospital in Birmingham. He had been flown
home after being severely injured eight days earlier in an explosion

JUNE 22

The chancellor of the exchequer, George Osborne, presents an 'unavoidable'
emergency budget to tackle 'our country's record debts'. Vat will rise to 20%,
child benefit will be frozen and housing benefit cut

JUNE 24

Julia Gillard becomes Australia's first female prime minister when Kevin Rudd
steps aside to avoid a Labor leadership ballot. Gillard, who was born in Wales,
says: 'I didn't set out to crash my head against any glass ceilings'

JULY 8

The US and Russia agree to a spy swap. America will expel 10 foreign agents -
including the photogenic Manhattan-based Russian Anna Chapman (right). In turn,
Russia will deport four Russians guilty of dealings with western intelligence

JULY 8

The discovery of one of the largest hoards of Roman coins ever found in Britain
is announced. It was found on a farm near Frome, Somerset. The 52,500 bronze and
silver coins, from the 3rd century, are valued at £320,000

JULY 9

The William Morris agency drops Mel Gibson after offensive voice messages to his
ex-girlfriend, Oksana Grigorieva, are circulated. In one, he says she looks like
'a f***ing pig in heat... if you get raped by a pack of n***ers it will be your
fault'

JULY 10

The murderer Raoul Moat (right) kills himself after a standoff with police in
Rothbury, Northumberland. Shortly after leaving prison, the erstwhile bouncer
had shot his former girlfriend, killed her boyfriend and blinded a police
officer

JULY 11

To the massed blaring of vuvuzelas (right), Spain beats the Netherlands to win
the World Cup in South Africa, thanks to a goal in extra time from Andres
Iniesta. Two weeks earlier, England crashed out, losing 4-1 to Germany

JULY 12

Switzerland rejects demands for Roman Polanski to be extradited to America. The
film director has been a fugitive from US law since 1978, when he pleaded guilty
to having sex with a 13-year-old girl

JULY 15

BP announces that it has succeeded in plugging the oil leak in the Gulf of
Mexico, caused by the explosion of the Deepwater Horizon offshore oil platform.
It finally staunched the flow with a 150,000lb cap

AUGUST 5

Ten members of an international team working for a Christian medical charity are
ambushed and killed by the Taliban in Badakhshan province, Afghanistan. They
include 36-year-old Dr Karen Woo from Britain

AUGUST 5

Naomi Campbell (right) testifies in the Hague at the trial of the former
Liberian president Charles Taylor. She admits getting 'dirty-looking pebbles' as
a gift in 1997, but says she'd 'never heard of blood diamonds' at the time

AUGUST 21

A hate campaign begins after a Coventry woman is caught on CCTV putting a cat in
a wheelie bin (right). The woman, a 45-year-old bank cashier, later said: 'I
cannot explain why I did this... I did not intend to cause any distress'

AUGUST 29

The longest-running sitcom in British TV history, Last of the Summer Wine, comes
to an end after 37 years and 295 episodes. The series, about old men behaving
badly (right), began as a one-off in 1973 for Comedy Playhouse

AUGUST 31

President Obama declares the end of US combat operations in Iraq, which cost the
lives of around 4,400 US troops. 'The Iraqi people now have lead responsibility
for the security of their country,' he says

SEPTEMBER 1

Christopher Myers (right of picture), special adviser to the foreign secretary,
William Hague, resigns over speculation about their relationship. Hague attacks
the rumours, and reveals his wife, Ffion, has suffered miscarriages

SEPTEMBER 4

Tony Blair is pelted with shoes, eggs and other missiles as he visits a Dublin
bookshop to sign copies of his memoir. The demonstrators include anti-war
protesters and Irish republicans who oppose the peace process

SEPTEMBER 11

Terry Jones, a pastor in Florida who has threatened to burn copies of the Koran,
for the ninth anniversary of 9/11, announces that the bonfire will not go ahead.
Jones said: 'We will definitely not burn the Koran... Not today, not ever'

SEPTEMBER 25

Ed Miliband (right of picture) defeats his elder brother, David, to become
Labour's new leader. David wins the first three rounds of voting, but the unions
help Ed to win by a small margin in the final round

OCTOBER 1

Pagans (right) celebrate as Druidry is recognised as a legitimate religion.
After a campaign lasting four years, the Druid Network, representing British
druids, is granted charitable status by the Charity Commission

OCTOBER 1

The bonuses that weren't: secretive bankers Goldman Sachs dish out tens of
millions' worth of free shares to up to 80 key staff. Bonuses elsewhere in 2010
are down by 30% after a crackdown by City watchdogs

OCTOBER 4

Robert Edwards, the British pioneer of IVF, is awarded the Nobel prize for
medicine. Louise Brown, the first test-tube baby, now 32, says: 'Its fantastic
news.' Over 4m children have been conceived through IVF worldwide

OCTOBER 6

Johnny Depp surprises children with a visit to Meridian primary school in
Greenwich, in full Pirates of the Caribbean costume. Depp, who is filming close
by, received a letter from a schoolgirl asking for help with a class 'mutiny'

OCTOBER 8

After being held for nearly two weeks by the Taliban, the British aid worker
Linda Norgrove (right) is killed by a grenade during a US rescue attempt. The
Linda Norgrove Foundation has been created in her memory

OCTOBER 13

A record TV and online audience watches as 33 Chilean miners (right) are brought
out alive, after spending 69 days deep underground. The miners became trapped
after a gold-and-copper mine caved in on August 5

OCTOBER 22

Right: HMS Astute, the Royal Navy's largest attack submarine, fails to live up
to its name when it runs aground off Skye in sea trials. The £1 billion nuclear
sub is rescued by a tugboat. The captain later loses his command

OCTOBER 22

WikiLeaks releases nearly 400,000 US field reports from the Iraq war. The
Pentagon responds: 'We deplore WikiLeaks for inducing individuals to... leak
classified documents and then... share secret information with the world'

OCTOBER 22

Cherie Blair sells Tony's signature anonymously on eBay. The autograph is on a
bookplate, which goes to the first and only bidder for just £10. Cherie later
claims it was an attempt to undermine the market in Blair signatures

OCTOBER 30

Explosives experts at East Midlands airport (right) find an Al-Qaeda bomb,
disguised as a printer cartridge, on a cargo plane travelling from Yemen to the
US. Another is found on a plane in Dubai. Both bombs are defused

NOVEMBER 3

The Republicans take control of the House of Representatives after the US
midterm elections. President Obama says the result 'underscores for me that I've
got to do a better job, just like everyone else in Washington does'

NOVEMBER 5

BBC journalists (right) strike over pensions, disrupting TV and radio. Radio 4
listeners are confused when they tune in to a documentary about bird life in the
Humber estuary instead of the Today programme

NOVEMBER 9

George W Bush's 512-page memoir, Decision Points, is published. It reveals that
he approved of waterboarding : 'No doubt the procedure was tough, but medical
experts assured the CIA that it did no lasting harm'

NOVEMBER 13

Aung San Suu Kyi (right) is released after seven years of house arrest in Burma,
just days after a juntabacked party claimed general election victory. The
65-year-old prodemocracy leader greets thousands in Rangoon

NOVEMBER 14

Paul and Rachel Chandler (right) of Tunbridge Wells are released by Somali
pirates after over a year. The British government insists it has not paid a
ransom. It is believed their freedom was bought with help from British Somalis

NOVEMBER 16

The engagement of Prince William and Kate Middleton is announced. William
proposed while the couple holidayed in Kenya in October, giving Kate the
sapphire-anddiamond engagement ring of his late mother, Diana

NOVEMBER 23

North Korea and South Korea (right) exchange artillery fire across their western
sea border, in one of the most serious clashes since the Korean war (1950-53).
South Korea later threatens air strikes if attacked again

NOVEMBER 24

Twenty-nine miners are declared dead after a second underground explosion occurs
in the Pike River coal mine in Greymouth, New Zealand. The victims include two
Britons, two Australians and a South African

NOVEMBER 28

EU ministers agree on a £72 billion support package for Ireland, £30 billion of
which is to help Irish banks. The deal provides 'vital time and space' to
address Ireland's debt crisis, says the taoiseach, Brian Cowen

NOVEMBER 28

WikiLeaks begins the publication of more than 250,000 leaked US embassy cables,
causing embarrassment around the globe as diplomats' unvarnished opinions of
various world leaders are revealed

DECEMBER 2

Fifa disappoints English football fans with the news that Russia will host the
2018 World Cup (right), followed by Qatar in 2022. Adding insult to injury, it
emerges that England got only two votes from Fifa's 22-man committee

DECEMBER 5

A fire in Israel's Carmel mountain area is put out after burning for four days
and killing 42. Jordan, Egypt, Greece, Turkey, Cyprus, Russia, Bulgaria,
Britain, France, US, even the Palestinian Authority all help with firefighting

DECEMBER 6

For the first time in its 26-year history the Turner prize is won by an artist
working in sound. Susan Philipsz, who 'records herself' singing a-capella folk
songs, accepts the £25,000 award from Miuccia Prada

DECEMBER 11

A suicide bomber kills himself in a Stockholm shopping street after his car
packed with gas canisters catches fire. Two passers-by are injured. It emerges
that the Iraqborn bomber attended university in Luton

DECEMBER 16

Julian Assange (right), founder of WikiLeaks, is released on £240,000 bail. He
is fighting extradition from Britain to Sweden, where he is wanted for alleged
rape. His supporters say the charges are political

WHITEOUT

These two striking images captured by the low-orbiting Nasa satellite Terra show
the freezing conditions that book-ended 2010. Such clear cloud-free images of
swathes of Great Britain and Ireland are rare, especially during such extreme
conditions. The first picture, captured in January, reveals a country gripped by
a deep freeze and blanketed by snow and ice. The Met Office claimed the month
saw the heaviest snowfall in 50 years, with almost 8in of snow falling, and
temperatures plummeting to -18C in some parts. Even more startling were the
unnaturally early cold spells that plunged the country into subzero temperatures
this month. Transport descended into chaos, online supermarket deliveries were
suspended in some areas, thousands were snowed in - and the Scottish transport
minister was forced to resign. Still, at least we had something to talk about

ME-TUBE

Television electrified an election. Nick Clegg's success in the UK's first TV
debates initiated shortlived Cleggmania and gave the Liberal Democrats their
highest-ever profile. By the third debate, in Birmingham in April (right), the
then prime minister, Gordon Brown, and the Conservative leader, David Cameron,
were tripping over themselves to declare "I agree with Nick". Later, Cameron's
deal with Clegg saw them both enter Downing Street, where in August Cameron
celebrated the birth of his daughter Florence (above). In October Ann
Widdecombe, formerly known as Doris Karloff, is dragged away from politics to
become a star of Strictly Come Dancing (left)

TAKING A GAFFE YEAR

Above: David Cameron's army of aides do their best, but still fail to spot
potential hazards at the Bolton Lads and Girls Club in the run-up to the
election. Right: Boris Johnson innocently makes a point of chasing the
cheerleaders' vote. Meanwhile, Gordon Brown (below) calls Gillian Duffy, a
Labour voter, a "bigoted woman" - and the rest of Britain listens in

UNHAPPY LANDINGS

Above: UKIP's Nigel Farage escapes with his life when the plane he was
travelling in nose-dived on election day. Ropes of a banner had become tangled
around the tail. The pilot was this month charged with threatening to kill
Farage in a separate incident. Right: no injuries were sustained when Peter
Mandelson took to the floor with Hannah Rita Mackenzie in Blackpool in the
run-up to the election. Mandy later said he was disappointed to miss the cut in
this year's Strictly Come Dancing

BUST AND BOOM

India's turn at hosting the Commonwealth Games in October may be remembered for
leaking loos (inset), dengue fever, gastroenteritis, malaria, free-range cobras
and a security barrier that spiked a Ugandan VIP's car. But at least they got
the opening ceremony in Delhi right (with the aid of pyrotechnics and 9,000
performers). Photograph by Graham Crouch

ONE IS AMUSED

Above: the comedian Russell Brand meets Prince Charles at the Pride of Britain
awards in November. "I saw a moment in his eyes when he realised, 'That's that
mad comedian,' and he sort of tried to get away," he said. Right: Prince Harry
falls off his pony at a charity polo match in New York state in June. He was
unhurt and played on

A ROYAL RIOT

Left: the photographer Alison Jackson's fake take on how Kate Middleton might
look at the bridal shop. Above: the Rolls-Royce taking Charles and Camilla to
the Royal Variety Performance is attacked by student protesters shouting "Off
with their heads". Below left: Prince William nuzzles a business leader in the
Kapiti Islands in January. Below right: William's future in-laws, Carole and
Michael Middleton, take shooting lessons at Balmoral

MAKING A POINT

The former Alaska governor Sarah Palin showed her support for the Tea Party
movement in October when she and her son Trig made a surprise appearance at an
Arizona rally. Far left: in another stunt, President Barack Obama treated Dmitry
Medvedev to a burger in Virginia when the Russian president visited the US in
June

THE TEETH OF BATTLE

Troops of the Afghan National Army in Kunar Province's Korengal Valley - 'death
valley' to US soldiers, who have lost 42 men in this region. Masks add a touch
of macabre humour to a conflict that offers few moments of levity. In April the
US army withdrew from the outpost, which they, rather than British troops, had
been responsible for. In July David Cameron announced that Britain would pull
the bulk of its 9,500-strong force out of Afghanistan within five years.
Photograph by Franco Pagetti

BURNING BRIGHT

The body of Joy, a fouryear- old male Royal Bengal tiger, is cremated at Assam
state zoo in Gauhati, India. The big cat died of respiratory failure in April,
three years after arriving from Jaipur. He leaves behind his mate, now one of
only seven tigers in captivity in the northeastern state. Photograph: Pankaj
Deka

LASHING OUT

Above: a protester clashes with riot police during a rally in Athens in February
when more than 30,000 people marched against austerity measures. After rioting
at another protest in May, three bank workers were killed - but the violence did
not prevent the government agreeing to spending cuts and tax rises to obtain a
£95 billion bail-out from the EU.

Below: metal workers take to the streets of Marseille in October, as part of a
nationwide strike over the government's decision to raise the retirement age in
France from 60 to 62

GIRL POWER

Schoolgirls try to protect an abandoned police van from vandals in central
London during a mass protest against the coalition's plans to allow universities
to charge tuition fees of up to £9,000 per year. Thousands took to the streets
on November 24 for the second of several London demonstrations to be marred by
violence. Despite a revolt by half of the Lib Dem MPs, the plans were approved
earlier this month, by 323 votes to 302

TRUE COLOURS?

So Tom Cruise has a sense of humour after all. At June's MTV Movie awards
(above) he went into a spoof hip-hop routine with Jennifer Lopez - in the guise
of his character in Tropic Thunder, the aptly named mogul Les Grossman. Right:
presenting in a blue wig at the Kids' Choice awards in March, Katy Perry was
silenced by a sudden explosion of green slime. She shrieked that it tasted of
'boogers'. Ugh

ONE WOMAN'S MEAT

Lady Gaga, the arch-controversialist, outdid herself in an ensemble made of raw
meat when she collected her trophies at the MTV Video Music awards in September.
The outfit caused a predictable hoo-ha among animalrights groups. Vegetarians
were not happy, and neither were the dry cleaners

TESTS OF TASTE

Now we know why a man bag is an essential on the beach. The design guru Giorgio
Armani, 76 (top left), showed a rare lapse of taste in opting for barely-there
white trunks on his summer break in Spain. Left: Sandra Bullock got up close and
personal with Meryl Streep when they tied for Best Actor at January's Annual
Critics' Choice Movie awards. Then in March Bullock beat Streep to the Best
Actress Oscar

THE BOTTOM LINE

Above: Woody Allen can't control his roving eye during a photo call with the
actress Lucy Punch for his new film in Spain. Left: James Cameron pretends to
throttle his ex-wife Kathryn Bigelow after she trounces him at the Oscars in
March, winning six Academy awards for The Hurt Locker. Cameron's Avatar - the
highestgrossing film ever - failed to win any of the big awards. Right: Lindsay
Lohan breaks down in a courtroom in Beverly Hills after being sentenced to 90
days in jail for violating probation. She was released after 14 days

THE PAPAL MASSES

Left: Pope Benedict XVI's simar, or shoulder cape, flutters as he arrives in
Edinburgh on a blustery September day. Thousands of well-wishers line the
streets - while 20,000 protesters rally in London (above). Below: in July, the
Florida pastor Terry Jones begins threatening to burn the Koran to counter 'the
evil of Islam'. The far-right English Defence League invited him to a rally in
February - but changed its mind after Theresa May, the home secretary,
considered banning him from entering Britain

COVER STORY

A woman clad in a burqa sells Roz (The Day), a women's magazine backed by
western publishers, on the streets of Kabul this month. Those who live in the
capital are becoming increasingly western in their aspirations, but many women
are still stuck behind their burqas. Photograph: Tom Koene

HOPELESS IN HAITI

The worst earthquake in Haiti for 200 years erupted near the capital,
Port-au-Prince, in January, killing 230,000 and injuring 300,000.

Around 1.5m were made homeless. Top left: women and children queue for UN food.
As hospitals overflow, the wounded are left in the streets. Below right: bodies
in a makeshift morgue. They were later buried in mass graves. Almost a year on,
people are still living in tents, most of the rubble remains uncleared, and
Port-au-Prince is in the grip of a cholera outbreak that has killed nearly 2,000

CHINESE BURN

After a spate of Somali pirate attacks in the Gulf of Aden, special forces from
the Chinese marine corps step up inspections in May. This is the fi rst time in
600 years that China, keen to protect trade routes with East Africa, has sent
naval forces into action outside its territorial waters. Photograph: Cao Haihua

ON TROUBLED WATERS

Far left: excess gas from the Deepwater Horizon wellhead is burnt off in the
Gulf of Mexico after an oil spill caused by an explosion in April that cost 11
lives. BP had to spend billions of dollars on plugging the leak. The cost to
wildlife so far is slight, even though this image of pelicans went around the
world. Photograph: Chris Morris

THE WORLD AWASH

Clockwise from above: chief Idle Kasow struggles through the Tana river, which
burst its banks in Kenya. Army aid helicopters are mobbed in Muzaffargarh,
Pakistan, where floods left 20m in dire need. A boy rescues his space hopper
from his flooded home in Jakarta, Indonesia. Dichato, Chile, in the wake of a
tsunami in March

UP IN SMOKE

The northern lights fl are above the ash cloud from Iceland's Eyjafjallajokull
volcano, which erupted in April. The ash hung at a height of 20,000ft (6
kilometres) in normally busy European airspace for six weeks. More than 150,000
British travellers were stranded, and many more had their holidays cancelled.
Ryanair alone cancelled 10,000 fl ights, at a cost of £41.5m. Photograph by
Lucas Jackson

IT'S JUST NOT CRICKET

Left: four months after a mysterious low-speed car crash and a string of lurid
revelations about his extramarital activities, Tiger Woods gets the thumbsdown
at a tournament in North Carolina in April. On October 31 he also lost the No 1
ranking he'd held for a record 281 weeks. Lee Westwood nicked the top spot -
he'd already played a key role in Europe's victory in the Ryder Cup (right).
Above: Pakistan's cricket management thumb through the News of the World, which
accuses three players, including wicketkeeper Kamran Akmal (above left) of
taking bribes in the fourth test against England in August. Akmal was later
cleared

WINNERS AND LOSERS

This page, clockwise from top left: Jason Maguire and his horse, Khachaturian,
survive a painful tumble on the second day of The Grand National weekend at
Aintree in April. Three horses died over the course of the weekend. No such
trauma at the French Open in May, although Venus Williams caused a few heart
palpitations with her outfit. And cardiac arrest couldn't have been far off when
France's Nicolas Mahut took on John Isner of America at Wimbledon in June. Isner
pipped Mahut (lying in the foreground) in the 138th game of the fifth set,
making the 11-hour, five-minute match the longest in history. Opposite page,
clockwise from top left: Paul Collingwood takes evasive action as Ricky Ponting,
Australia's captain, drives to the boundary at Old Trafford in June in a year
that England taught the Aussies a thing or two about cricket. Meanwhile, a
suspicious entry to the 4.10 at Ascot - or the most imaginative outfit at
Ladies' Day? You decide. And one fan's failed attempt to get his hands on the
World Cup just before the final's kick-off. Spain went on to beat the
Netherlands 1-0 at Soccer City Stadium, Johannesburg

FOR MORE POWERFUL IMAGES FROM A YEAR OF SPECTRUM, VISIT:
WWW.THESUNDAYTIMES.CO.UK/SPECTRUM

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TOP LEFT: PA. RIGHT: REX. BOTTOM FAR RIGHT: GETTY
MAIN IMAGES: ALL REUTERS EXCEPT OPPOSITE PAGE, CENTRE LEFT: ZUMA. BOTTOM FROM
LEFT: AP; GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

The lights are on, but no one's home....

BYLINE: By James Fielding

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 407  words


EU leaves heat and power on at Parliament only used four days a month

EU BOSSES are wasting thousands of pounds of British taxpayers' money by keeping
hundreds of lights burning all night in empty offices at the Strasbourg
Parliament.

A fortune is spent every year illuminating and heating rooms which are unused
for weeks on end.

The flagrant waste also makes a mockery of the EU's attempts to reduce its
carbon footprint and deliver a "low-energy economy".

MEPs gather at the GBP 400million building, on France's border with Germany, for
just four days every month.

UKIP MEP Mike Nattrass, who took this picture, last night branded the waste
"disgraceful". He photographed lights blazing away in the Parliament's main
Louise Weiss building and in the adjoining Winston Churchill block.

Light switches and radiators were left on in empty offices, hallways and even
the canteen on Thursday evening, long after Eurocrats had packed up and left.

Mr Nattrass, MEP for the West Midlands, added: "This is just another example of
the EU gravy train. This has gone on for too long, I am sick and tired of
walking past the Strasbourg Parliament and seeing all the office lights left on
when nobody is in them.

"On Thursday, voting finished just after midday and MEPs all started to drift
off as usual. Hours later I took photographs of light beaming out of the Louise
Weiss building and it wasn't from one room but lots of them.

"I then went into the building the following day on Friday and checked to see if
the heating was on and it was.

The place was virtually deserted.

"Hardworking Britons will be sick to their stomachs to know their cash is being
wasted in this manner. It's absolutely disgraceful."

Mr Nattrass also revealed that the majority of the 2,000 offices inside the
Parliament have showers, washbasins and TVs that can pick up channels from all
over the world. "It's needless, " he said. "I've never used the shower in my
office as long as I've been an MEP. Why would I need to? I have one before I
leave the hotel in the morning."

The monthly jaunt from the European Parliament in Brussels Belgium to
Strasbourg, 216 miles away, is estimated to cost the public an annual GBP
200million.

Yet MEPs are there for voting sessions on just 48 days a year.

Moving various files and equipment between the two cities takes 30 men and 10
large trucks.

The huge cost involved has led to repeated calls to have Brussels as the sole
location of the Parliament.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BURNING BRIGHT: This illuminated but empty canteen is a typical scene
says UKIP MEP Mike Nattrass

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            December 26, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

THE DID NOT SEE THAT COMING AWARD. . .;
Cross Bencher

SECTION: COLUMNS; 37

LENGTH: 144  words


A rich field as 2010 is full of startling images: the BBC's political editor
Nick Robinson wrenches a protester's placard from his grasp and breaks it over
his knee, David Miliband emerges stony faced into the Manchester conference hall
after being robbed of the Labour leadership, while Sky's political editor Adam
Boulton picks a fight with Labour's one-time spinmeister Alastair Campbell.

For sheer shock factor UKIP's leader Nigel Farage takes the award after an
election day stunt goes horribly wrong. Farage boarded a light aircraft to trail
a 15ft banner with the slogan "Vote for your country - vote UKIP". The banner
became tangled in the plane sending it hurtling towards the ground.

Both pilot and politician were seriously hurt but have since recovered and
Farage later stormed to victory in the UKIP leadership election - a result that
everyone saw coming.

LOAD-DATE: December 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 24, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Illegal migrants can stay 'to safeguard their rights'

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 392  words


BRITAIN'S immigration system has been thrown into further chaos because border
officials are refusing to deport illegal migrants over human rights fears, it
has been claimed.

A migrant-return scheme was suspended by the UK Border Agency after an Afghan
asylum seeker challenged plans to send him back to Greece - the country through
which he gained entry to the EU.

The move has given the green light to more than 1,300 men, women and children
who slipped into Britain to apply for asylum under our soft-touch system rather
than the tougher rules applied in Greece.

The "cavalier" decision to shoulder the asylum burden was made after the Afghan
claimed he will not be treated fairly in Greece which refuses 99 percent of
asylum applications.

But Greece releases failed applicants and allows them to travel on to another
country.

The suspension to the migrantreturn scheme will last until the legal challenge
is heard by the EU's Court of Justice which could take at least two years.

Yesterday, critics branded the move an outrage and accused ministers of
encouraging tens of thousands more illegal immigrants to cross the Channel and
take advantage of the UK's chaotic border controls.

Gerard Batten MEP and UKIP's immigration spokesman, denounced the Government's
"cavalier" approach to immigration.

He said: "Under this suspension illegal immigrants just have to say they came
via Greece and the UK has to look after them. The trafficking gangs already know
this and are instructing their cargos what to say on arrival."

News that the UK Border Agency had suspended the return of asylum seekers to
Greece slipped out after the Court of Appeal passed a legal challenge to the
system on to the European Union's Court of Justice.

The Daily Express revealed last month that the situation had become so bad that
the EU's border agency Frontex deployed nearly 200 specialist guards to shore up
Greek patrols along an eight-mile stretch of frontier to help process the flow
of up to 400 illegal crossings a day.

Last night Immigration Minister Damian Green said: "We have taken the decision
to consider these cases through the UK asylum system rather than waiting for a
European Court decision that could take up to two years to conclude.

"This will substantially reduce the amount of time those with no legitimate
claims live here at the cost of the British taxpayer."

LOAD-DATE: December 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 24, 2010 Friday 2:47 PM GMT

Politics 2010: Ten unforgettable moments

BYLINE: By Will Heaven

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 813 words


1. Worst gaffe: Gordon Brown, Duffygate, and Jeremy Vine

Where to start with Duffygate? Was it the moment Gillian Duffy's eyes popped
wide open with the revelation that the Prime Minister had called her a bigot? Or
was it Brown's infamous "blame Sue" reaction, which led to at least a dozen
"Don't blame Sue" internet campaigns? It's tough, but I've plumped forwhat Jon
Stewart described as the moment Gordon Brown's political career "leaves his
body".

2. Corniest Coalition love-in: The Dave and Nick show

"Prime Minister, do you now regret when once asked what your favourite joke was
you replied, 'Nick Clegg'. And Deputy Prime Minister, what do you think of
that?" That question, asked shortly after the formation of the Coalition during
the Rose Garden press conference, will be replayed countless times in the months
and years to come - especially if/when the Coalition disintegrates. The Dave and
Nick Show had begun in earnest.

3. Ripest tomato: Tom Watson and a 'miserable pipsqueak'

A close second to Tom Watson's exploding tomato attack on Michael Gove would
have to be Paul Gogarty's "unparliamentary language" (warning: clip contains
swearing) during a debate on the Social Welfare bill of Ireland's budget. "F-
you, Deputy Stagg! F- you!", he yelled. In Westminster, the tone was the same,
but the language was a bit more...Beano.

4. Angriest anchor: Nick Robinson smashes a protester's placard

Again, there's a close second - Adam Boulton squaring up to Alastair Campbell
live on Sky News. But TV viewers, I think, were far more taken aback to see
grainy mobile phone footage emerge of Nick Robinson, the BBC's political editor,
losing his temper after appearing on the News at Ten. (Personally, I thought he
acted heroically.)

5. Silliest peer: Lord Pearson of Rannoch

Witnessed at close range by the Telegraph's Deputy Editor, Benedict Brogan, Lord
Pearson's appearance on the Campaign Show ranks among the most embarrassing
interviews in recent political history. After dismissing legitimate questions
about UKIP's manifesto as "minutiae", he was deservedly filleted by Jon Sopel.

6. Wettest tabloid splash: The Sun greets the birth of Florence Rose Endellion
Cameron

Inevitably, this inspired an "exclusive to all tabloids" Private Eye spoof
involving, I seem to recall, something about ham. But even Ian Hislop would have
to admit: it's one heck of an eye-catcher.

6. Lamest parliamentary quip: "To think he was the future once"

Watch at 3 mins 15 secs. Gordon's little joke may have worked in rehearsal, but
deploying it at the end of a debate which Cameron had conclusively won was badly
thought through. As Ann Treneman reported in the Times: "Dave, who had the
cooler head and won the exchange, merely fixed him with a look and laughed."
Ouch.

7. Most painful slip-up: Michael Gove walks to Downing Street

No explanation needed. But how mean were the assembled hacks to cheer?

8. Biggest campaign backfire: "Don't let him take Britain back to the 1980s"

This was a spectacular own goal for Labour - and one which they claimed,
red-faced, to be "inspired by Barack Obama". David Cameron's response - and a
popular Gene Hunt twibbon - was proof that this poster was a gift to the Tory
leader: "I think there will be thousands of people, millions of people, in the
country who wish it was the 1980s and that police were out there feeling collars
and nicking people instead of filling in forms." 1-nil.

9. Dodgiest parliamentary comeback: George Osborne calls Chris Bryant a
"pantomime dame"

Chris Bryant had accused the Chancellor of taking delight in playing the role of
"Baron Hard-Up", the father of Cinderella. So George Osborne shot back with
Bullingdonian venom: "At least I'm not the pantomime dame." Was this an example
of homophobia, nastiness, or just Christmas chatter? Well, if he shares Dave's
humour, who knows.

10. Funniest Radio spoonerism: James Naughtie introduces Jeremy Hunt, the
Culture Secretary

Warning: contains swearing

The PM"s first New Year's resolution should be to find his culture secretary a
new job. Because as one BBC Radio 4 listener said, "The prominent speech error
in today's programme was more the Prime Minister's fault than Jim's."
Consonant-swapping, it transpires, is easily done when two words share a vowel -
something that theMaster of the West Kent Hunt may recall as she rides out on
boxing day morning.

Happy Christmas to you all!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Ukip discriminated against lesbian;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 98 words


A former UK Independence Party MEP was discriminated against by the party
because she was a lesbian, a tribunal has ruled.

Nikki Sinclaire, pictured, had the whip removed by Ukip's leader Nigel Farage in
January after she refused to sit with members of the far-Right Italian party
Lega Nord, claiming that some of its members were prejudiced.

Ukip offered no defence when she lodged a discrimination suit at Exeter
Employment Tribunal and a default judgment was made in her favour.

The party blamed an administrative error and said an application for the
judgment to be set aside had been filed.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Greedy Eurocrats grab even more of your cash

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 376  words


GRASPING Eurocrats will ring in the new year with yet more money in their pay
packets courtesy of hard-pressed British taxpayers, it emerged yesterday.

EU president Herman van Rompuy and European Union commission president Jose
Manuel Barroso will see their already bloated basic pay soar from GBP 254,000 a
year to GBP 259,000.

Vassilious Skouris, president of the European Union Court of Justice, is also in
line to receive the 1.92 per cent pay increase.

Each of the Euro supremos will also collect a payment of GBP 8,100 in January
and February for increased living expenses.

The pay rise for Mr Van Rompuy will particularly infuriate struggling taxpayers
across Europe and adds weight to the Daily Express crusade to get Britain out of
the EU.

Not only is he the Western world's highest paid leader, the Belgian has a
private office costing taxpayers more than GBP 5million a year.

In addition, the seven vicepresidents of the European Commission will each get
an extra GBP 358 a month, taking their annual wage to GBP 234,700, as well as a
foreign service payment of GBP 7,300.

MEPs will see their pay rise to GBP 81,300 a year with a backdated increase of
the parliamentary allowance for 2009 and 2010 of GBP 2,200 each.

The payments, which total GBP 8.4million, were sanctioned by the European Union
Court of Justice and come after Eurocrats originally pledged to take a cut.

Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen yesterday criticised the pay rises.

She said: "Public sector workers are seeing their wages being cut or frozen,
hundreds of thousands will be made redundant, but the EU gravy train just rolls
on.

"Not a single official is to lose their job, and everybody is getting backdated
presents funded by the taxpayer. It's a very Merry Christmas in Brussels and an
even happier New Year."

Last week David Cameron put the brakes on the juggernaut of EU excess when he
managed to stave off attempts by Eurocrats to snatch a multi-billion-pound
handout that would have saddled UK taxpayers with a huge financial burden for
the next decade.

The Prime Minister secured a deal in which the EU's budget will be frozen for a
decade.

However, next year's budget has already been set and will grow to GBP
110billion, of which Britain will have to fund about GBP 8.5billion a year.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EU chiefs Van Rompuy, far left, and Barroso, whose pay will soar to GBP
259,000 a year

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 23, 2010 Thursday

Lesbian former Ukip MEP wins sex bias case

BYLINE: David Batty

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 265 words


An MEP expelled by the UK Independence party has won a claim of discrimination
against her for being a lesbian.

Nikki Sinclaire had the whip removed by Ukip's leader, Nigel Farage, in January
when she refused to sit with the far-right Italian party Lega Nord, which is
allied to her former party in the European Parliament, saying that some Lega
members were homophobic.

Ukip made no defence when she lodged a discrimination suit against the party at
an employment tribunal in Exeter, and a default judgment was made in her favour.
The party said yesterday it had failed to lodge a response because of an
administrative error, and an application for the judgment to be set aside had
been filed.

The judgment, in which Farage and Godfrey Bloom MEP were both listed as
respondents, found: "The claim of sexual orientation discrimination is well
founded."

The MEP, who now sits as an independent, said: "I'm very saddened by how this
has all turned out. I have been trying to work for an out-of-court settlement,
but at no point did Ukip come to me and say: 'Right, shall we talk about this?'

"I feel betrayed by the party. When I joined Ukip in 1994 it certainly wasn't a
career move. I did my bit in building Ukip up to second in a national election
and they have repaid me with discrimination."

Sinclaire says that Bloom, an MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, called
her "a queer" as she passed him in the hallway of the European parliament in
Strasbourg. Bloom denies the allegation, which is being investigated.

A hearing to decide whether to award compensation will take place on 29
December.

LOAD-DATE: December 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    December 23, 2010 Thursday 11:00 AM GMT

The revelation that truly humiliates the Lib Dems

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 865 words


Paul Goodman calls the Lib Dem surgery scandal the Westminster Wikileaks: "In
other words, it makes public what some already knew and many guessed."

Yup. Just as the US diplomatic cables are, by and large, Statements of the
Pretty Bloody, so the new Telegraph recordings reveal that some Lib Dems are
vain, chippy and prone to show off to young women. There needs no ghost, my
Lord, come from the grave, to tell us this.

Among all the exposures, there is one that must make the Lib Dems wince. Do you
remember their yogic contortions over their EU referendum pledge? You don't?
Then let me remind you.

In their 2005 election manifesto, the Lib Dems made an unequivocal commitment:

We are therefore clear in our support for the [European] Constitution, which we
believe is in Britain's interest - but ratification must be subject to a
referendum of the British people."

Pretty unambiguous, eh? But by the time the European Constitutioncame before
Parliament, it was obvious that keeping this promise would jeopardise
ratification. The peoples of France and the Netherlands had voted "No", and the
people of Britain stood like greyhounds in the slips, straining upon the start.

So Cleggie went back on his word, and ordered his MPs to abstain on the critical
vote. The amendment was defeated in the House of Commons by 63 votes - precisely
the number of Lib Dem MPs. In the House of Lords, however, an abstention
wouldn't have been enough, so Clegg adopted his third position in as many weeks
and instructed his peers to vote against the referendum he had promised.

Seeking to justify these U-turns, Nick Clegg snatched up a - I was going to say
"a fig-leaf", but it was really more of a shrivelled strawberry-leaf. What he
wanted, he said, was a vote on EU membership, not the paltry referendum he had
promised before. He told the Today Programme:

The positional we took was that the referendum, which we wanted to see take
place, was a referendum on the big question about Europe, which is whether we
stay in or out. What we disagreed with, as the party, was the Conservative
proposal to have a referendum, a very narrow referendum, only on this Lisbon
Treaty.

Alright, it's hardly Cicero, but you get the point. Instead of a referendum on
Lisbon, the Lib Dems would give us a vote on whether to remain in the EU. So a
couple of weeks later, the UKIP peer, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, took them at
their word and introduced precisely such a proposal in the Lords. Did the Lib
Dems support it? Of course not. "We didn't want to give succour to UKIP," one of
their peers later explained.

Well, now it has emerged that the Lib Dems were at the time privately admitting
that they had lied because they feared public opinion. Here is the relevant
Wikileak cable:

Why would theUK's most pro-Europe party, whose new leader actually worked for
the EU from 1994 to 1999, abstain on a vote on the Treaty? The answer, senior
Lib Dems have confessed to us, is that the party leadership believes a
referendum on the Lisbon Treaty would fail. Despite Labour's parliamentary
majority, if there had been enough Labour defections, a Lib Dem vote for the
Tory referendum could have led to its passage. In the end, the "least worst
scenario," according to Shadow International Development Minister Michael Moore,
was to adopt the awkward position of abstention. This unspoken subtext was
derided by pundits, one of whom called it "too clever by half." Another summed
up the Lib Dem position as "sinuous, supple, and so difficult to understand it's
not worth getting to grips with."

Ouch! First tuition fees, now this. Is there anything the Lib Dems can do to
recover their credibility? Well, yes. They can deliver on the pledge in their
current manifesto. Let me remind you of what it said:

The European Union has evolved significantly since the last public vote on
membership over thirty years ago. Liberal Democrats therefore remain committed
to an in/out referendum the next time a British government signs up for
fundamental change in the relationship between the UK and the EU.

They won't be able to get away with the line they used over tuition fees, viz
that their manifesto is at odds with that of their coalition partner. The
Conservatives also promised a referendum on any future treaty that transferred
power to the EU (although, unlike the Lib Dems, they didn't propose to make it
an In/Out referendum). Indeed, as David Cameron told Gordon Brown last year, the
Tory commitment to a referendum is permanent in its nature:

First he [Gordon Brown] was against the Constitution, then he was for it; one
day he promised a referendum, the next he backtracked. While he has chopped and
changed, our position has remained exactly the same. We are the only major party
to have consistently said that it is up to the British people to decide on our
future in Europe.

Now, unexpectedly, the PM and his Deputy have an opportunity to deliver. Last
week, EU heads of government agreed to a new treaty. Time to let the people
decide.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                          December 22, 2010 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

FATCATS UNITED;
POUNDS 45M FROM JUST 15 DONORS KEPT TORIES AFLOAT FOR 10 YEARS

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 495 words


THE Conservative Party has been kept going for 10 years by just 15 super-rich
donors - fuelling accusations it is out of touch with ordinary people.

The select few swelled Tory coffers by pounds 45million between January 2001 and
June this year - almost a third of all the party's For a donations.

And pounds 72million - more than half the Conservatives' declared cash donations
- has been given by just 50 donors over the past decade, London School of
Economics research reveals.

The statistics have been calculated by adding up donations made by different
family members or between personal and company donations. They provide the most
comprehensive picture published.

Belize-based tycoon Michael Ashcroft has donated nearly pounds 2million to the
Conservatives via Bearwood Corporate Services.

The Bamford family - which owns JCB - has stumped up about pounds 4million over
the past decade.

The biggest donor is controversial business tycoon and Tory peer Irvine Laidlaw,
who has given more than pounds 6million since 2001.

The Monaco-based Scot had six weeks of therapy in South Africa for "sexual
addiction" after taking part in wild sex parties with prostitutes. US-born Sir
Paul Getty, who died in 2003, gave pounds 5million. While spreadbetting tycoon
Stuart Wheeler - kicked out of the party last year for donating pounds 100,000
to UKIP - has donated pounds 3.9million.

Ex-Tory treasurer Michael Spencer has given pounds 3.8million. The tycoon
controversially sold pounds 45million of shares in his broking firm, ICAP, weeks
before they fell in value.

Labour's Gregg McClymont said: "It's no wonder this Tory-led government is so
out of touch with the general public. Worse, PM it appears the Tories are trying
to confuse the picture.

"Questions have to be asked about why the size of so many of these donations is
disguised by being split, and whether donors expect anything in return."

Labour MP Phil Wilson slammed Tory dependence on a handful of wealthy backers.
He said: "For a PM who supposedly believes in a big society he certainly has a
small circle of friends."

In a further blow to David Cameron's claims to have cleaned up politics, the PM
has asked controversial businessman Christopher Moran, 62, to search for a new
Tory HQ.

Moran was censured several times in the 80s by the London Stock Exchange for a
pile of dodgy deals.

He was also the first person in 300 years to be debarred for life by Lloyds of
London for "dishonourable conduct". And he has been convicted of insider dealing
in the US.

Voice of the Mirror: Page 10

Osborne's dame jibe at gay MP

CHANCELLOR George Osborne sparked a row yesterday by calling gay Labour MP Chris
Bryant a "pantomime dame".

Mr Bryant, who had accused Mr Osborne of playing "Baron Hardup", said later: "I
don't think he would have said that phrase if I was not gay."

Mr Osborne's aides insisted his words were just a "Christmas joke".

pounds 2m Lord Aschcroft

pounds 5m Sir Paul Getty

pounds 6m Lord Laidlaw

pounds 4m Bamford family

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JOKE Chancellor

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 21, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

EDL donors exposed

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 62 words


Details of hundreds of people with links to the far-Right English Defence League
(EDL), including civil servants, a serving soldier and a former UKIP candidate,
have been leaked on a blog. One of the EDL's websites was hacked by the
self-styled "Mujahideen Hacking Unit", which posted e-mail and postal addresses
of those who had given money to or bought goods from the EDL.

LOAD-DATE: December 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 20, 2010 Monday 12:20 PM GMT

Could someone explain why global warming has to be a disaster?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1095 words


I thoroughly enjoyed listening to Mr Pilger explaining why it would be wrong to
extradite Mr Assange to Sweden to face allegations of serious sexual offences on
the Today Programme on Saturday morning.  He claimed that there was no prospect
of a fair trial in Sweden.  No prospect of a fair trial in Sweden!  Then where
on Earth would Mr Pilger expect a fair trial?  Cuba? Zimbabwe? North Korea?
Then we got to the heart of the problem.  It seems that the dastardly Swedes
have leaked details of the allegations to the media.

I suppose that has infringed the human right of Mr Assange to have a world
monopoly of leaking and it is so unfair that his reputation  might be damaged by
the leaking of stolen material and Swedish justice has now been pilgerised.

I really had not smiled so much since I had recently enjoyed a chat over tea
with a distinguished warmist.  I listened with care to what he was saying about
the rise in the temperature of our planet and the disasters that would bring
upon us all, then asked him what would be the benign effects of a warmer
climate.  The question seemed to puzzle him. I suggested that if Greenland could
again grow wheat and barley as it did 1100 or 1200 years ago it might be quite
helpful in feeding the hungry.  I was told that already the Russians were
worried about the thawing of the perma frost.  I asked if he had read about the
recent discovery there of the remains of a baby mammoth beneath the ice which
would seem to my untutored mind to show that in earlier times there must have
been vegetation there since mammoths cannot feed on ice.  Perhaps, I wondered if
the world got warmer, there could be again.

Sadly, he lost interest in the conversation, but perhaps one of my blog readers
will be able to explain why restoring the world to temperatures it survived in
the past would be an unmitigated disaster in the future.

After listening to the Today Programme, I turned to my Daily Telegraph and
nearly choked on my coffee as I read James Kirkup's report of Mr Cameron's warm
supportive words for the LibDem candidate at the Oldham East by election."Of
course I wish them (the Lib Dems) well."

Well that is really encouraging for the Conservative candidate, Khashif Ali, who
should be the favourite to win.  In May it was a close fought election (Lab
14,186, LibDem 14,083,  Cons 11,773, BNP 2,546, UKIP 1,720 )  and with the
collapse of LibDem support the Conservatives ought to be the prime challengers
to the leaderless Labour Party.   So why on Earth should the Prime Minister all
but endorse the candidate of another party?  I thought that was against the
rules of the Conservative Party.  So is it open season now for Eurosceptic
Conservatives to endorse UKIP?  And does it suggest that my thoughts on election
deals for LibDem Minister in 2015 in my previous blog are not far out?

Never mind, right next to that story I was able to read that Mr Cameron shares
with me, and most of those posting comments on this blog, a sense of anger that
the child killing asylum seeker Aso Mohammed Ibrahim has not been deported.  So
will we now see the repal of the Human Rights Act and some new instructions
going to immigration tribunals?   What a nice Christmas present that would be.

...

Anyway, I am sure that Skicarver, Boudicca, MJHop, Georgej, Rogerandout
Hool_Gibson, Hennrietta, Nickr, Danoconner, ThomasRossetti, Tommo2 and others
will be greatly comforted by the words of the Prime Minister, and even more
comforted if anything comes of them.

On the other hand fatmiddleagedguy might be uneasy about this, as he felt that
to point out that those offered free board and lodging at immigration holding
centres were all free to leave, was "sophistry".  Most of them he said are from
Zimbabwe, Afghanistan, and Eritrea which are nasty places, but as Figgypetsworth
said there are closer places than here for them to go. As Steve_ipswich and
ArbuthnotWorsthorn pointed out, they should have claimed asylum in the first
safe country which they reached but many did not and tried to get in here
instead.

Some of you seemed to have thought that I am in favour of an electoral pact or
even a merger with the LibDems.  I am not.  I am not a coalitionist. As Tom
realised, I wrote what I thought might well happen, not what I would like to
happen, so Rtj's criticism is entirely misplaced.

Why should Clegg join the Tories asked Gojam.  That is easy enough. To hang on
to his seat in the Commons and his post in the Cabinet. He is not, as Rogerballs
thinks, a Tory.  It may be that As71 is right and there will be no safe seat for
Clegg since he would be defeated anywhere, but I do think so and Lickyalips
quoted Francis Maude saying that Clegg would remain Deputy Prime Minister even
if the Tories win an outright majority.

I agree with Better_out_than_in that most Tories would oppose that sort of deal,
but that doesn't mean it will not happen. Tanuki said he could not imagine his
Conservative Association adopting Clegg, but this is a top down Conservative
Party which is expected to obey orders. Victor_Meldrew asked why Tories should
vote for Clegg. They should not and I would not!

I agreed with Billca's account of the two wings of the LibDems and that Clegg is
more of a Liberal than a social democrat, but as Norto pointed out that is
negated by his Europhillia. I agree too with Clare62 who does not think that
Cameron and Clegg plan to absorb the LibDems.  What they are about is splitting
the Liberals from the social democrats, absorbing the first and destroying the
latter.

There were so many other interesting comments, but I fear I cannot answer them
all.  At some time I may try to answer Jenga who asked how I would have resolved
the student loan and fees issue, but not before Christmas. There is much to be
said about electoral fraud and whether one can change the Tory Party from
within. And I would like to answer Derbybob more fully, but in the meantime I
would just ask him to read what I wrote.  Of course a lot of Government spending
is "bad".  But a lot is "good" too.

Just one last thought:  Sheumais asked a very good question.  If Conservatives
were to list their values and policies and then compared them to those of the
Party at present, how many would find much reason to stay as members?  I would
put it differenly.  How many would not feel the need to get in there and fight
for their beliefs.

Well, that is it until the New Year, so may I thank those of you who sent kind
wishes to me and my family and wish you all... Yes, even the trolls, for it is
the season of goodwill, a very happy Christmas.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 19, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Scrutiny for Lloyds £1m fund;
Questions have been raised about leadership and funding of Lloyds shareholders'
legal action.

BYLINE: James Quinn; Harry Wilson

SECTION: BUSINESS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1486 words


Standing in the austere surroundings of Prospero House in London's Borough,
Adrian Lithgow addressed the assembled crowd of angry pensioners and assorted
hangers-on.

"This was Britain's biggest bank robbery," boomed the shaven-headed Mr Lithgow.
"It was not a smash and grab, it was an inside job."

The "robbery" in question was Lloyds TSB's forced 2008 acquisition of HBOS, a
move which led to £24bn of toxic asset writedowns and led to the value of
Lloyds' shares declining sharply.

Lithgow, a former journalist, is the very vocal frontman of Lloyds Action Now
(LAN), the 3,500-member shareholder group fighting to get as much as £14bn from
the Government and former directors of Lloyds TSB.

But in spite of an at times noisy campaign during the past 12 months - backed up
by a series of public meetings and former BBC Watchdog presenter Alice Beer as
its very own celebrity backer - research undertaken by The Sunday Telegraph into
LAN shows a different side to the organisation.

Questions have been raised about the fund-raising methods of the group and
suggestions that one must be a member to have any chance of winning
compensation.

It can also be revealed that Mr Lithgow is the same Adrian Lithgow who, in May
2007, pleaded guilty to racially aggravated harassment and threatening behaviour
towards a Yugoslavian railway worker.

The incident occurred late one night at London's Victoria station, when he
launched a barrage of abuse towards the railway employee, ending in asking:
"Have you got a work permit?" Once the situation became more heated, a manager
was called, and Mr Lithgow proceeded to throw a hot pasty at the staff members,
tried to poke one with an umbrella and then grabbed the manager around the
throat. He was fined £60, ordered to pay £400 in compensation and an additional
£60 in costs.

At the time, Mr Lithgow was head of communications for the UK Independence Party
(UKIP) - for which he unsuccessfully contested the seat of Bognor Regis and
Littlehampton in the 2005 general election.

Unsurprisingly, this period in his life does not feature in his online
curriculum vitae on LinkedIn, the networking site. Instead he notes that since
September 2006 he has run George Berkeley PR, a public relations company
specialising in legal work. The company is the same George Berkeley which has
been retained as the paid-for PR company representing LAN. LAN is run as a
not-for-profit campaign, but members are required to stump up a joining fee of
as much as £293.75, rising to £300 from January 1.

Given LAN claims to have more than 3,500 members, its total membership dues -
when all paid up - could currently exceed £1m.

According to LAN's guiding "Rules, Case, Methodology" document, George Berkeley
will be paid a total of £50 plus VAT per member in the action group, phased
through different stages of the campaign, with the full amount only payable if
compensation is won.

Mr Lithgow told last Monday's London meeting that the group needs 25,000 to
30,000 members to fund the necessary litigation, implying a potential £1.5m
windfall for George Berkeley, 90pc of the shares of which are controlled by Mr
Lithgow and wife, Amanda.

However, Ms Beer, a consumer champion in her own right, who is not being paid
for her services, believes that the commercial nature of the group is the only
way to bring an action, citing hundreds of letters she has had from Lloyds
shareholders who have called it "their lifeline".

"This is a professional group of people who are being paid to bring an action,"
she says. "It's nothing more deceitful than that. It's paying for services." Of
Mr Lithgow's potential compensation, she said: "Firstly, he hasn't been paid
anything. He's now taken something. But it's not going to make him millions."

However, when contacted by The Sunday Telegraph, Caroline Lucas, the Green Party
MP for Brighton Pavilion who has spoken at a LAN meeting, said she was not aware
of Mr Lithgow's recent past or the possible remuneration. But said she did not
wish to comment further.

Mr Lithgow told The Sunday Telegraph that he does not own any Lloyds shares
himself. But he did say that his wife Amanda - with whom he spends most of the
year in their home in the Dordogne, southern France - is a Lloyds shareholder,
as is his mother. His mother, Jillian Timmis, is the 76-year-old chairman of
LAN. Although her face and her name adorn its website, there is no apparent
reference on the site that she and Mr Lithgow are related.

The trio - Mr and Mrs Lithgow and his mother - sat on the unelected interim
committee of LAN, which recruited the various service providers, including
George Berkeley, and set the payment charges.

In October, LAN members were asked to consider standing for election to the
committee, however, after a lack of applicants, four new members were earlier
this week automatically co-opted on to it, alongside Mrs Timmis who remains in
place.

The other two members of the interim committee - who, along with Mr and Mrs
Lithgow have now stood down - were Wynne and Lucille Edwards from Reading, who
stand to benefit because of their interest in the company running LAN's
administration and website.

eSystems Case Management will be paid £100 per member in the initial
investigation phase alone, meaning that if LAN recruits the 30,000 members Mr
Lithgow said publicly he is aiming for, it could make at least £3m, plus further
fees if the case is eventually successful.

Some 51pc of eSystems Case Management's shares are owned by eSystems, and 49pc
by eSystem Administration.

In spite of exhaustive searches at Companies House, the ultimate beneficiary of
eSystems could not be established this weekend.

However, it is clear that eSystem Administration is controlled by Lucille
Edwards - owning 100pc of its shares - meaning the couple stand to net just less
than half the potential £3m. No mention of Ms Edwards's involvement in eSystems
is made apparent on the website.

In its latest newsletter, LAN points out that in spite of the contracts in
place, the "service providers" - which include George Berkeley and eSystems Case
Management - have not taken payments in order to aid the group's cash flow. But
Mr Lithgow confirmed that they are still owed the amounts and have not waived
them.

Chris Hulme, who sits on the board of the UK Shareholders' Association UKSA) and
is cochair of its Northern Rock action group, believes that some of LAN's
practices are unusual: "One of the key things we've found is that a large amount
of [the] membership of these groups are pensioners, and they simply can't afford
to pay huge amounts in fees."

Instead, the UKSA has recently attempted to piggy-back institutional
shareholders - with SRM and RAB in the case of Northern Rock - developing a
joint case. He also criticised the lack of apparent openness from LAN, with
members given only an email address to put questions or address concerns, when
the UKSA board provides the investing public with its home and mobile phone
numbers.

But his biggest criticism is LAN's claim that shareholders have to be part of
the group in order to benefit from a successful action: "If the test case is
won, it would be easily replicated if based on the same case law; I don't think
that precludes shareholders from taking the same action. The potential is that
all of Lloyds' shareholders could benefit."

Mr Lithgow and LAN's raft of legal advisers do not agree, however, with
solicitor Jim Rai, of Winckworth Sherwood, telling Monday's meeting that
investors are taking a "big chance" by not coming into the group. LAN has now
set a cut-off date of April 1 next year by which time members must join up, with
more recruitment roadshows planned for the new year.

"The more members there are, the better that the group can afford the insurance
to protect the members. It's not because they're trying to lie to them, it's
trying to have force and strength of numbers," added Ms Beer, who said that
while she would love to spearhead a non-commercial Lloyds campaign, she does not
believe such a campaign is possible under the UK legal framework.

Mr Lithgow said: "There's been two years of solid work that has gone into this,
work that is providing an opportunity for people to find justice in a very
sophisticated and very complex case." He also points out that if the group wins
its case, all fees paid will be recoverable as costs. When you mentioned what
George Berkeley, the firm, may be able to earn, I hope it does but that depends,
I think it's unlikely," Mr Lithgow said.

It remains very much the case, however, that no LAN accounts have yet been
published in spite of the potential £1m-plus the association has collected so
far, with no clarification as to how much money the group has available to take
on "Britain's biggest bank robbery" or how exactly it is being spent.

"This is a professional group of people being paid to bring an action

"Pensioners simply cannot afford to pay huge amounts in fees

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Above: LAN frontman Adrian Lithgow, who pleaded guilty to racially
aggravated harassment, and Caroline Lucas, Green Party MP for Brighton Pavilion.
Below: Alice Beer, the celebrity face of LAN. Right, a statue of Lloyds' iconic
black horse
ALAMY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               December 19, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

The true cost of Europe;
Britain's MEPs cost taxpayers £26m a year, finds Telegraph's value-for-money
investigation

BYLINE: REBECCA LEFORT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2296 words


BRITAIN'S MEMBERS of the European Parliament are costing the public purse £26
million a year, an investigation by The Sunday Telegraph has discovered.

The total covers the salaries, pensions and expenses of the 72 elected British
representatives and their staff.

The cost is due to rise yet further next year after MEPs last week voted
themselves a backdated pay increase and rise in expenses.

Almost all of Britain's MEPs earn more than their Westminster counterparts, with
basic salaries of around £79,600. In addition, they are able to claim hundreds
of thousands of pounds in expenses without providing receipts.

The total bill includes £2.5 million in office expenses, £2.1 million in travel
expenses and £2 million in subsistence allowance, which can be spent on hotels,
taxis and meals while staying in Brussels or Strasbourg, the cities where the
parliament is jointly based.

The cost of the politicians - an average of £370,000 for each MEP every year -
was uncovered as part of a groundbreaking "value for money" investigation that
looked at how hard each MEP worked, relative to the amount they claimed in
expenses.

The resulting league table exposed wide variations in the "value" provided by
the politicians. At the bottom of the table was James Elles, a Conservative MEP
for the South East, who claimed £113,000 on travel, office and living
allow-ances in a year - putting him among the 10 highest UK claimants - while
taking part in less than 80 per cent of the parliament's plenary sessions, where
he delivered only three speeches in 18 months.

His fellow Conservative, Charles Tannock, a representative for London, emerged
as the best-value MEP. He had a near perfect attendance record, posing 189
questions to the European Commission and giving 96 speeches, while claiming
below average travel and office expenses.

MEPs from across the European Union have consistently voted against transparency
measures that would force politicians to disclose how they spent public money.

Because the parliament does not publish even basic information about expenses
claims, our calculations were based on details disclosed voluntarily by MEPs -
sometimes because they were obliged to do so by their parties. Only two MEPs -
Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons, of the far-Right British National Party - had to
be excluded from the analysis because they refused to disclose most of their
expenses details. Keith Taylor, of the Green Party, has only been in Brussels
since May and was therefore also excluded.

Siân Herbert, an analyst at Open Europe, an independent think tank, praised the
investigation. "MEPs' activities and whereabouts are woefully under-scrutinised
in this country," she said.

"The system of MEPs' expenses is an absolute mine-field, raising serious
questions about transparency and accountability.

"It's still completely unacceptable that MEPs are under no obligation to provide
information of their expenditure. The whole system needs to undergo
root-and-branch reform."

The "best value" politician, Dr Tannock, 53, is a former consultant psychiatrist
and lecturer who has been an MEP since 1999.

"Work in parliament is what we are elected to do, and it is where the money is
spent. It is very important that we are there, scrutinising officials," he said.

"I'm very critical of those MEPs who just regard it as a gravy train and do
little work. I deplore totally those MEPs who think it is all a waste of time
and just grandstand and moan about it.

"You can make a difference as an MEP, and I do, but you need to be there to
engage in the discussion."

The "worst value" politician, Mr Elles, 61, is a former civil servant who has
been an MEP for 26 years. He said he welcomed The Sunday Telegraph's focus on
"value for money", but disagreed with the method used to calculate work rate -
which, he said, did not take account of his work on the budgets committee or
meeting constituents. He said: "I have always taken my duties as an MEP
seriously and my record over the past 26 years proves that I am a hard-working
parliamentarian."

A spokesman for the Conservative group of MEPs said: "We welcome this initiative
from The Sunday Telegraph but unfortunately the methodology does not take into
account the many varied activities of different MEPs."

He said the formula used to calculate the scores was based only on participation
at plenary sessions, which are held for around one week in four, and gave no
credit for committee work. He added that many MEPs emailed questions directly to
Commissioners instead of submitting them formally.

The European Parliament does not disclose comprehensive figures for members'
attendance at committees. The £370,000 average cost of a British MEP includes
salaries, pension entitlements and the total travel, living and office expenses
claimed, added to the maximum allowable staffing costs - as most MEPs did not
divulge the amount they spent on staff.

Robert Sturdy, the Conservative MEP who had the second-worst value for money
score, said the finding was linked to his ill health. His spokesman said: "Mr
Sturdy has undergone two operations this year. This has naturally affected his
attendance as he has been unable to travel. However, he has still worked
extremely hard for his constituents."

Doru Frantescu, a co-founding director of VoteWatch.eu, an independent watchdog,
said: "The information is the best we have. The attendance is the attendance
rate only in the plenary, not committees or other places, but it is all the
European Parliament publishes so it is the only thing we can use. It has got
better but still they do lack some transparency."

Last week's pay deal for MEPs includes a two per cent rise in annual salary with
a backdated element which means that each will receive a lump sum of more than
£5,000 in salary and extra expenses next month.

Alyn Smith, the Scottish National Party MEP, said he hoped his fellow MEPs would
agree to make the expenses system more transparent.

"I challenge the MEPs on a cross-party basis to come up with a template for all
MEPs. Currently different MEPs reveal different things which makes it very
confusing," he said. "I would ideally like all MEPs to sign up to a voluntary
code to coordinate the release of expenses data."

The Sunday Telegraph was the first to publish, in 2007, a "value for money"
table for Westminster MPs. It showed that Philip Hollobone, the Tory MP, was the
best value, while Clare Short, the former Labour minister, was the worst.

EU'S EMPIRE BUILDERS: PAGE 29

HOW THEY WERE RATED

The Sunday Telegraph set out to compare all 72 UK members of the European
Parliament, contrasting their individual work rate with the amount they cost the
public purse in order to calculate an overall "value for money" rating for each.

Work rate was calculated using European Parliament data for the period July 2009
to Dec 2010, as collated by VoteWatch. eu, an independent watchdog. Four
yardsticks were used: rate of attendance at the parliament's plenary sessions in
Brussels and Strasbourg; parliamentary questions asked; motions tabled and
speeches made.

Other aspects of an MEP's workload, such as participation in committees and
delegations, and meetings with constituents, were not taken into account because
they are difficult or impossible to quantify.

Work rate scores were calculated by awarding one point for each percentage point
of attendance, plus a point for every three questions, motions or speeches. So
an MP who attended 86 per cent of sessions and asked 16 questions, made 10
speeches and proposed 10 motions would score 98.

Cost was calculated from each MEP's salary and pension entitlement, as well as
their claims for the period July 2009 to June 2010 from three expenses pots -
office costs, living allowance and travel.

The European Parliament does not reveal expense claims, so our calculations are
based on figures disclosed voluntarily by each MEP. A few provided data for
different time periods, from which the annual total was extrapolated.

THE BEST AND THE WORST

CHARLES TANNOCK, 53 CONSERVATIVE, LONDON

Tops the "value for money" table due to near-perfect attendance of 97.44 per
cent, and moderate to low expenses. He bombarded commissioners with 189
questions, more than any of his colleagues, on subjects ranging from the
"erosion of freedom of expression within the EU" to "excessive awards in sexual
discrimination cases". His travel and office expenses were below average,
although living allowance claims were among the highest.

JAMES ELLES, 61 CONSERVATIVE, SOUTH EAST

The former civil servant, an MEP for 26 years, cost taxpayers £194,555 in salary
and expenses over a 12-month period - only five UK MEPs cost more. At the same
time, he was one of only 13 whose attendance at plenary sessions was less than
80 per cent, and he gave just three speeches and asked six parliamentary
questions. The relatively high expenses and relatively low work rate left Mr
Ellis at the bottom of the value table.

NIGEL FARAGE, 46 UKIP, SOUTH EAST

Expenses among the lowest of the UK MEPs, but a poor attendance rate of just 72
per cent left him in the bottom half of the value-formoney table. Mr Farage was
reinstated last month as leader of his Eurosceptic party after stepping down a
year earlier to run for a Westminster seat, then escaping serious injury in a
plane crash while campaigning. He asked 17 parliamentary questions and gave 39
speeches.

MICHAEL CASHMAN, 60 LABOUR, WEST MIDLANDS

The former EastEnders actor finished in the bottom half of the value table due
to a low attendance rate of 77.3 per cent, coupled with a relatively high yearly
bill of £182,852. Spared embarrassment by a high work rate while in Brussels -
asked 29 parliamentary questions, gave 29 speeches and tabled 12 motions. In
1987, Mr Cashman caused controversy when his character in EastEnders engaged in
the first homosexual kiss on a British soap opera.

"The activities of MEPs are woefully under-scrutinised in this country

IS YOUR MEP GOOD VALUE FOR MONEY? MEP Party Constituency Total cost Attendance %
PQ, motions VFM and speeches Charles Tannock C London £185,126 97.44 408 12.610
William Dartmouth UKIP South West £152,649 80.77 206 9.790 David Martin L
Scotland £158,095 97.33 131 8.918 Diana Wallis LD Yorkshire and the Humber
£184,101 90.67 210 8.727 Edward McMillan-Scott LD Yorkshire and the Humber
£180,187 88 207 8.713 Gerard Batten UKIP London £125,538 80 67 8.152 Catherine
Stihler L Scotland £159,369 86.67 115 7.844 Derek Clark UKIP East Midlands
£124,609 86.67 32 7.811 Chris Davies LD North West £187,184 88.46 131 7.059
Baroness Sarah Ludford LD London £181,004 93.59 101 7.031 Diane Dodds DUP
Northern Ireland £162,108 85.33 85 7.012 Richard Howitt L Eastern £174,925 86.67
98 6.822 Liz Lynne LD West Midlands £164,154 92.31 57 6.781 Syed Kamall C London
£187,662 79.22 144 6.779 Derek Vaughan L Wales £169,935 93.59 62 6.724 Jean
Lambert G London £161,181 87.18 63 6.712 John Bufton UKIP Wales £178,813 94.87
68 6.573 Marta Andreasen UKIP South East £166,415 94.8 43 6.562 Alyn Smith SNP
Scotland £141,828 80 36 6.487 Brian Simpson L North West £173,441 93.33 56 6.457
Marina Yannakoudakis C London £178,797 87.18 76 6.293 Ian Hudghton SNP Scotland
£175,156 84 77 6.261 Graham Watson LD South West £199,121 89.74 100 6.181 David
Campbell Bannerman UKIP Eastern £150,873 64 84 6.098 Glenis Willmott L East
Midlands £172,821 90.67 43 6.076 Claude Moraes L London £172,757 82.67 65 6.040
Stuart Agnew UKIP Eastern £167,930 84 50 5.995 Fiona Hall LD North East £190,943
96.1 54 5.976 George Lyon LD Scotland £169,278 74.32 71 5.789 Jill Evans PC
Wales £172,496 88 33 5.739 Philip Bradbourn C West Midlands £173,043 93.59 16
5.717 Malcolm Harbour C West Midlands £188,782 94.87 38 5.696 Peter Skinner L
South East £174,133 91.03 24 5.687 Linda McAvan L Yorkshire and the Humber
£167,357 81.69 38 5.638 Geoffrey Van Orden C Eastern £177,449 81.33 56 5.635 MEP
Party Constituency Total cost Attendance % PQ, motions VFM and speeches Trevor
Colman UKIP South West £156,415 83.33 12 5.583 Bill Newton Dunn LD East Midlands
£185,477 93.59 28 5.549 Bairbre de Brún SF Northern Ireland £176,753 81.69 49
5.546 Daniel Hannan C South East £179,713 71.79 82 5.516 Michael Cashman L West
Midlands £182,852 77.33 70 5.505 Julie Girling C South West £169,443 85.33 22
5.469 Nigel Farage UKIP South East £166,248 72 56 5.454 Mary Honeyball L London
£166,951 88 8 5.431 Timothy Kirkhope C Yorkshire and the Humber £179,198 80.77
49 5.419 James Nicholson UCU Northern Ireland £215,610 97.44 56 5.385 Stephen
Hughes L North East £182,416 84 42 5.372 Nicole Sinclaire I West Midlands
£185,849 88 34 5.345 Ashley Fox C South West £190,897 83.33 54 5.308 Andrew Duff
LD Eastern £191,021 92.31 23 5.234 Richard Ashworth C South East £189,883 93.51
17 5.223 Giles Chichester C South West £193,871 96.15 15 5.217 Struan Stevenson
C Scotland £199,032 92 34 5.192 Kay Swinburne C Wales £186,414 82.05 38 5.081
Arlene McCarthy L North West £182,797 84 26 5.069 Mike Nattrass UKIP West
Midlands £169,089 82.67 7 5.027 Martin Callanan C North East £196,186 93.59 14
5.008 Emma McClarkin C East Midlands £197,955 83.33 45 4.967 Vicky Ford C
Eastern £182,478 79.49 33 4.959 Roger Helmer C East Midlands £193,390 80 45
4.912 Jacqueline Foster C North West £191,813 92 6 4.901 Sharon Bowles LD South
East £194,199 82.67 35 4.858 Sajjad Karim C North West £171,780 69.33 36 4.735
Nirj Deva C South East £193,872 78.21 39 4.705 Paul Nuttall UKIP North West
£145,682 60 25 4.691 Sir Robert Atkins C North West £179,863 80 13 4.689 Godfrey
Bloom UKIP Yorkshire and the Humber £151,609 62.67 25 4.683 Catherine Bearder LD
South East £184,588 83.33 9 4.677 Robert Sturdy C Eastern £184,977 70.67 25
4.271 James Elles C South East £194,555 79.22 9 4.226 (Higher VFM score
indicates better value for money)

LOAD-DATE: December 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 19, 2010 Sunday 9:34 PM GMT

Exclusive: Thatcher advised UKIP on party morale

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 254 words


Baroness Thatcher may be the ultimate symbol of the Conservative Party, but it
seems that she has sympathies with UKIP. Before the general election, she had
lunch with Lord Pearson and they discussed the problems that Pearson, then
UKIP's leader, was having in keeping the support of activists.

She advised him to hire Viscount Monckton, a former Telegraph journalist, who
she said had done a brilliant job for her in the Number 10 Policy Unit. You may
think Monckton looks eccentric (although I have to say I have a soft spot for
stripey blazers and tweed), but she regards him as razor-sharp. What's more,
Thatcher had relied upon his understanding of how people outside the Westminster
elite think during her premiership, as he'd spent his Saturdays travelling
anonymously to pubs in his biking gear and chatting to the public - and she
thought this skill would be an asset to UKIP.

Lord Pearson jumped at Thatcher's advice and appointed him UKIP's deputy leader,
tasked with giving speeches at local UKIP branches.

For the record, a UKIP spokesman told me that "Malcolm [Pearson] would not want
to comment on the contents of a private lunch", while one from the Margaret
Thatcher Foundation declined to discuss the matter.

Anyway, I know this news won't cheer the current Conservative leadership, but
there's a question they should be asking themselves. If even Margaret Thatcher,
the longest-serving Conservative PM of the 20th century, now thinks that UKIP is
worth helping, aren't the Tories getting something seriously wrong?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday

CAMERON DEMANDS EU CASH FREEZE

BYLINE: FROM TIM SHIPMAN IN BRUSSELS

LENGTH: 373 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday demanded the EU end its orgy of spending and start
'living within its means'.

The Prime Minister called for a freeze in the EU's 6110billion-a-year budget Z
and won support from France and Germany to freeze spending for six years.

Mr Cameron, French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel
will today issue a joint statement Z backed up by at least two other leaders Z
to see the budget rise no higher than inflation between 2014 and 2020.

The Prime Minister said they would also seek major restrictions in annual
budgets for 2012 and 2013.

Mr Cameron had already galvanised support to restrict a rise in next year's EU
budget to 2.9 per cent Z less than half the level demanded by the European
Parliament. He said the pact of Europe's most powerful nations would 'put down a
firm marker' for 18 months of negotiations on the size of the 2014-20 budget.

At the conclusion of a two-day summit in Brussels, Mr Cameron said: 'All around
Europe countries are tightening their belts to deal with their deficits. Europe
cannot be immune from that.'

The last time there was an EU budget negotiation the French and the Germans
stitched up a deal before it even began which forced Tony Blair to surrender a
large part of the rebate negotiated by Margaret Thatcher.

The Prime Minister said the Big Three acting together this time 'is a very, very
powerful thing' and said the deal would let Britain 'play the toughest possible
hand'. The declaration is also due to be signed by the Dutch and the Finns, but
Mr Cameron failed to get the ten signatories he was hoping for.

However, Eastern European diplomats accused Mr Cameron and Mr Sarkozy of
stitching together a deal which will see Britain keep its budget rebate in
exchange for protecting most of the Common Agricultural Policy, which funnels
billions of pounds to French farmers.

Mr Cameron denied any 'back-room deals or secret agreements'.

Critics said a freeze in the budget is not enough. Former EU chief accountant
Marta Andreasen, a UKIP MEP, said: 'Cameron is selling the British people short
by allowing Sarkozy and France to keep a massive and wasteful CAP budget.

'Looking for an EU budget freeze is not good enough Z Cameron must push for a
reduction.'

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron halts EU gravy train by capping budget

BYLINE: From Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 332  words


DAVID Cameron proclaimed a spectacular victory yesterday as he joined forces
with France and Germany to halt the juggernaut of EU excess.

The Prime Minister secured a triumph for British taxpayers in which the European
Union's gargantuan budget will be frozen for a decade.

Mr Cameron will publish a joint declaration today with French President Nicolas
Sarkozy, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders demanding
the budget should rise by no more than the rate of inflation between 2014 and
2020.

Next year's budget has already been set and will grow to GBP 110billion, of
which Britain will pay about GBP 8.5billion.

This figure is unlikely to rise much further over 10 years thanks to Mr
Cameron's tough wrangling.

The agreement could signal cuts in funds for countries in central and eastern
Europe. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said his country would resist attempts
to cut the EU budget.

In Brussels yesterday, Mr Cameron said the agreement was "a firm marker" of the
leaders' determination not to allow the budget to swell.

He said: "All around Europe, countries are tightening their belts to deal with
their deficits. Europe can't be immune from that."

Mr Cameron also described the agreement as "incredibly significant" and a "huge
achievement". He said: "This is Britain, France and Germany - the three biggest
countries in the EU - standing together united on the need for stopping the EU
budget getting out of control."

Mr Cameron admitted he would have liked the 2.91 per cent increase in the 2011
budget to have been lower but Britain was outvoted.

Shadow foreign secretary Yvette Cooper said: "David Cameron has achieved little
for Britain. The EU budget is still going up by 2.9 per cent and there is no
serious plan to get the budget down in future years."

And UKIP MEP Marta Andreason, former European Commission chief accountant, said:
"He is trying to make a success story out of this but, frankly, he should have
been asking for a reduction in the EU budget."

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Germany's Mrs Merkel yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron halts EU gravy train by capping budget

BYLINE: From Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 410  words


DAVID Cameron proclaimed a spectacular victory yesterday as he joined forces
with France and Germany to halt the juggernaut of EU excess.

The Prime Minister secured a triumph for British taxpayers in which the European
Union's gargantuan budget will be frozen for a decade.

Mr Cameron will publish a joint declaration today with French President Nicolas
Sarkozy, German Chancellor Angela Merkel and other European leaders demanding
the budget should rise by no more than the rate of inflation between 2014 and
2020.

Next year's budget has already been set and will grow to GBP 110billion of which
Britain will pay about GBP 8.5billion.

This figure is unlikely to rise much further over 10 years thanks to Mr
Cameron's tough wrangling.

The agreement could signal cuts in funds for countries in central and eastern
Europe. Polish Prime Minister Donald Tusk said his country would resist attempts
to cut the EU budget.

In Brussels yesterday, Mr Cameron said the agreement was "a firm marker" of the
leaders' determination not to allow the budget to swell.

He said: "All around Europe, countries are tightening their belts to deal with
their deficits. Europe can't be immune from that. We want to see real budgetary
restraint for 2014-20."

Mr Cameron also described the agreement of Britain, France and Germany as
"incredibly significant" and a "huge achievement". He said: "This is Britain,
France and Germany - the three biggest countries in the EU - standing together
united on the need for stopping the EU budget getting out of control."

Mr Cameron admitted he would have liked the 2.91 per cent increase in the 2011
budget to have been lower but Britain was outvoted.

Shadow foreign secretary Yvette Cooper said: "David Cameron has achieved little
for Britain. The EU budget is still going up by 2.9 per cent and there is no
serious plan to get the budget down in future years."

And UKIP MEP Marta Andreason, former European Commission chief accountant, said:
"He is trying to make a success story out of this but, frankly, he should have
been asking for a reduction in the EU budget."

She said the EU had underspent over the past five years "by five per cent to 15
per cent" and was "asking for much more money than they need".

Also yesterday, the 27 EU leaders agreed to set up a permanent mechanism to bail
out any member whose debt threatens the 16-nation eurozone. It came as the Bank
of England warned Britain was only "partially insulated" from the eurozone debt
crisis.

LOAD-DATE: December 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Germany's Angela Merkel yesterday joined forces with Mr Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 18, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Euro turkeys are the new sprouts

BYLINE: Donald MacLeod

SECTION: FEATURES; OPINION, COLUMN; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 460 words


TURKEYS don't vote for Christmas - so why the hell should they be allowed a
festive bonus? The turkeys in question are of course our greasy, well-stuffed,
overpaid MEPs who - along with that disgusting vegetable, sprouts - have managed
to give Brussels such a bad name.

At least with a sprout you can lob it straight into the bucket - or, as I used
to do when no one was looking, spit it down the inside of your sleeve. But sadly
we are permanently stuck with the cashgobbling and un-democratic ways of our
foul European fowl.

This week they took their all-powerful gilt-lined gravy boat and all the
trimmings to a totally new level by generously awarding themselves a tax-tree
expense account of £91,000 - no proof required - an increased AND back-dated
salary of £84,000 per annum as well as a tax-free £5,400 Christmas bonus.

What a great wee present to themselves that was, and they did it all without
once having to don a silly red suit and pointed hat.

Fiddling They didn't need to of course, not when they have every tax paying
worker in the European Union acting as their secret Santa.

Our fiddling Westminster MPs were rightly accused when caught sticking their
noses in the trough, but this lot have managed to swallow the damn thing without
it even touching the sides.

The dominoes have started to fall and Europe is teetering on the brink. Greece
is about to implode over its austerity measures, Ireland have sadly been forced
to pass out the begging bowl.

Portugal, Spain and Italy could all be set to follow. Across the continent, 16
member states' unemployment queues grow unabated and here in the UK our
disaffected students are on the march - sorry rioting - and what do our shyster
MEPs at 'The Bureau' in Brussels decide to do about it all? Nada! Except take a
nice wee Christmas bonus as well as an undeserved rise and increase in expenses.

What the hell is going on? Who are these nonentities? What is it they actually
do apart from spending our money and trashing our laws? Who do they represent
apart from themselves and why is it that no one apart from Nigel Farage and his
fellow roasters from UKIP are prepared to tell them to take a massive hike? And
not in wages either ... Our puddings Cameron, Clegg and Sillybam should be
leading from the front - especially after last year's expenses shenanigans put
all three parties' credibility on the line - and toasting the lot of them.

But on this issue they are nowhere to be seen. The silence is deafening.

This issue will not go away though, of that I'm sure, and as the cuts bite and
jobs disappear, and as radicalism replaces commonsense, our cash-gobbling
Eurocrat Turkeys better hang onto their giblets and come clean.

Or they could soon find themselves well and truly plucked.

Merry Xmas everyone!

LOAD-DATE: December 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

WITH HIS STRANGE ABILITY TO ROLLTHE LETTER R, HE EMBWACED THE RRRRRIGHT TO
POLITICAL PWOTEST

LENGTH: 662 words


QUENTIN LETTS YESTERDAY IN PARLIAMENT

TWO Lords ministers, two very different styles. Ladies and Gentlemen, I give you
Lady Neville-Jones, Home Office minister, and Lord Wallace of Saltaire,
Government Whip.

Lord Wallace is an academic and long-serving Lib Dem. His first taste of public
life was as a chorister at the Coronation.

His once fluting treble is these days a pleasingly gravelly voice, resonant at
the despatch box. Lady Neville-Jones, a Tory (or so she would have us believe),
is a former diplomat/spook.

She has a reputation in Whitehall of being stern to underlings. Clipped,
concise, she takes a desiccated pleasure in following an official line.

Yesterday Lord Wallace was answering questions about the wearing of masks by
protesters. This has happened quite a lot in the student marches of late. Peers
wanted to know if the police could do anything about it.

Lord Wallace told them that the police already had the power to interfere with
protesters who were wearing masks for the purpose of hiding their identity.

Lady O'Cathain (Con) found masks frightening. 'It may be fine for great, strong
men like him,' she told Lord Wallace, 'but not for others. If someone is wearing
a mask, arrest them!'

As Lord Wallace explained, it would not be possible to arrest Japanese tourists
who were simply wearing masks to ward off western germs.

Nor could Mr Plod seize the collar of a person wearing a balaclava to keep warm.
But if the intention was primarily one of disguise, then yes, mask wearers could
be nicked.

Former police commissioner Lord Condon, the House's very own Constable George
Dixon, did not necessarily think this wise.

Protesters sometimes wore masks to ridicule an individual. That should not be
illegal. Lord Wallace, who has a strange ability sometimes to roll the letter R,
sometimes not to be able to say it at all, embraced 'the rrrrright to political
pwotest'.

It was 'a matter of judgement for the police as to who should be arrrrrested'.

Lord Pearson (Ukip) wondered if coppers could whip off protesters' burkhas. Lord
Wallace, not without a twinkle, said that 'as the weather gets colder we may
expect white, Christian Englishmen Z I'm sure he is a Christian, but that is up
to him Z to wear masks to keep themselves warm'. Question charmingly avoided.

Lady Neville-Jones regards charm with the suspicion young boys reserve for soap
and hot water. Her ladyship is as dry as Noilly Prat, though less cheering.

She took questions a few moments after Lord Wallace. The subject was America's
continuing attempt to extradite Gary McKinnon, that autistic chap who hacked
into the Pentagon's computers a decade ago and left messages saying, in effect,
'd'oh!'

Much to the irritation of Whitehall and a succession of spineless ministers,
this case will not go away. Parliamentarians keep raising it, as Lord Maginnis
(UUP) did yesterday.

He said there was 'a more compelling moral responsibility than a legal one'
involved. In other words: tell the Americans to get lost. I know of hardly any
British parliamentarian who thinks Mr McKinnon should be extradited. Yet why,
why, why will Government ministers not admit this?

Lady Neville-Jones was punctiliously non-judgemental yesterday.

She bent over to say nothing helpful to Mr McKinnon. Some will say this was only
correct. Many others will ask: what is the point of having politicians if they
do not shout up for us, do not propel strong public desire?

Lady N-J is clever in a legalistic way. It would be perfectly possible for her,
while jibbering about 'legal frameworks' and 'reviews of existing provisions',
to speak up for the human side of Gary McKinnon's plight.

Ten years this has been going on! Ugh. The timidity of the careerist. I bet Lord
Wallace would have handled the moment better.

Lady Browning (Con) had the best solution. Post WikiLeaks, she said, 'rather
than imprisoning an autistic savant, the Pentagon would do well to employ Gary
McKinnon to sort out the weaknesses in its computer security'.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 678 words


Ed Miliband wished him a dignified retirement. Unlikely. This is Peter Mandelson
after all. But it may be just as good to know that the architect of New Labour
has limited potential for mischief. He has his new venture, the grandly named
Global Counsel; but before clients climb on board, they would be well advised to
ask what use the Labour strategist-in-exile could possibly be to them. For the
Advisory Committee on Business Appointments says that for 12 months he cannot
"undertake any work that involves providing advice to any company or
organisation on the terms of any bid or contract relating directly to the work
of any UK government department or agency, or draw on any privileged information
which was available to him as a minister". And for the next two years, he is
personally banned from "lobbying UK government ministers or crown servants,
including special advisers". A happy position, then. Mandy can keep talking. No
doubt he will. But no one important has to listen to him.

A festive card arrives on MPs' desks from the home affairs select committee,
chaired by the indestructible Labour survivor, Keith Vaz. All members of the
committee and their support staff get a credit. But these are terrible times,
with fingers pointing everywhere. Thus, tucked away at the foot of the page is a
modest gesture to transparency: "The cost of the card has been met by the
chairman personally," it says.

Another card finds us. It's from the Speaker of the house, John Bercow, and
depicts his children racing their toy trucks at speed through an empty
Portcullis House. Just shows, carpers insist, he can't control them either.

And in this, the season of goodwill we are happy to commend those Labour MPs who
have been willing to lend their cars to Tom Harris, the vehicularly challenged
MP for Glasgow South. "Thanks so much to all comrades," wrote Tom. "Honestly,
there was a tear in my eye," he says. But they are like that at Westminster.
Trusting enough to loan their car to a fellow member. Canny enough never to buy
one from a colleague secondhand.

For it has been the achievement of parliamentarians to make the fourth estate
seem virtuous. We've enjoyed the reversal in fortunes; but know it cannot last.
Nagging questions pursue us too, such as whatever happened to the bust of
Charles Dickens that once stood proudly in the Fleet Street lobby of the long
defunct News Chronicle. Dickens was the founding editor (in 1846) of the Daily
News, which merged with another Liberal-supporting paper, the Daily Chronicle,
to create the News Chronicle in 1930. The paper closed 50 years ago, but his
campaigning zeal inspired it to the end. "One day the bust was there, the next
it had gone, never to be seen again," laments one former correspondent. "Someone
out there knows its fate." And someone does indeed. Someone has an interesting
conversation piece in the study.

Finally for this year: it was Christmas 1914 and though hostilities raged, the
British and their German enemies put aside their differences to establish common
humanity with a game of football. But then, all that separated them was a world
war. In retrospect, that was easy. Much easier than finding common ground now
between the Germans and the British Ukip MEPs in Brussels. There will be no
pause this Christmas. The Brits fight on. They fight to win. But it is half-time
and they are one-nil down, to continue the analogy. Because we learn that
Godfrey "eight pints" Bloom, the MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, has
been fined a week's allowances (£185 a day) for directing Nazi terminology
towards his German parliamentary colleague, Martin Schulz, and refusing to
apologise. Godders was ejected from the parliamentary chamber last month. There
is still no apology from him: indeed there is talk of a legal action by "eight
pints" in the new year because he says Germans have been allowed, without
comparable sanction, to refer to their British critics as "fascists". All over
by Christmas? Not this Christmas. The diary will cling to hope. Back in the new
year.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            December 17, 2010 Friday

Simon Hoggart's political review of 2010: Heroes and zeroes in a year of change:
A round-up of the more unusual, egregious or plain stupid moments from the
people who represent us

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 786 words


Most incompetent coup

Geoff Hoon and Patricia Hewitt in January, at a time when Gordon Brown was at
his weakest, managed to blow a plot against him, even though the Tories knew
about it before the prime minister did.

Most incompetent attempt at money-grubbing

Geoff Hoon and Stephen Byers were caught in a sting, offering to use their
ex-ministerial influence for large sums. Byers quote: "I am a cab for hire."

Complaint about new expenses regime least likely to get sympathy from voters

Nicholas Winterton objects to having to travel standard class on trains because
of "the type of people you get there".

Most ambiguous Mandelson quote

Following accusations that Brown threw things at his staff: "Nobody in No 10
would condone bullying - if it were to take place."

Greatest hostage to fortune

Nick Clegg in January insists that his party would demand an end to university
tuition fees. By contrast, "the other parties are trying to buy favour with
cheap trinkets".

Most embarrassing past quote burp

At the joint Cameron/Clegg press conference in the Downing Street garden Cameron
was reminded that, asked his favourite joke, he had replied: "Nick Clegg."

Most alarming turn around in public popularity

Nick Clegg in April was the most liked politician in the country; by November he
was the most despised.

Best political prediction

Austin Mitchell MP said "the coalition is like merging the Parachute Regiment
with a Brownie pack - it's bound to be messy."

Most outrageous claim to Chilcot committee on Iraq

From Alastair Campbell in the dodgy dossier: "It was a genuine attempt to take
the public into (Blair's) confidence."

Best quote about Harriet Harman

From Boris Johnson, after Labour deputy leader left the scene of a minor traffic
accident: "Once again, the Conservatives will have to sweep up the broken tail
lights of Labour's policies". Ms Harman had racked up £810 in motoring fines
over six years.

Only admission by Gordon Brown that he had ever been wrong about anything

In March he said that he had been mistaken to say that defence spending had gone
up in every year, whereas it was the overall average that had gone up.

Most plainly stupid claim

A Labour video which alleged that most prisoners would vote Tory if they could,
because Tory legislation would make life easier for burglars.

Cheekiest quote

Nigel Farage, Ukip leader, said in his memoirs that when he had first been
elected to the European parliament, he had been asked by an interviewer: "From
now on, it's going to be endless lunches, lavish dinners and champagne
receptions. Will you be corrupted by the lifestyle?" His reply: "No. I've always
lived like that."

Most embarrassing question

Lord West, the former First Sea Lord, taken on as anti-terrorism minister by
Gordon Brown, joined the Home Office team, causing him to have to appear an
expert on the subject of ritual clitorectomy.

Most overblown "gaffe"

Gordon Brown calling Gillian Duffy of Rochdale "that bigoted woman" into a
still-live microphone. She had complained about immigrants "flocking" to
Britain; he may have thought she used a similar but different word. In the
election a few days later, Labour won Rochdale from the Lib Dems, suggesting
that local voters at least had more sympathy with the then prime minister than
with Mrs Duffy.

Other weird live-mic gaffe

The then Labour sports spokesman in the Scottish parliament, Frank McAveety, was
chatting to the clerk of the committee he was chairing about a woman he had
spotted on the public benches during a break. "There's a very attractive girl in
the second row, dark and dusky. We'll maybe put a word out for her . . . very
nice, very slim. She's got a Filipino look, you know, the kind you see in a
Gaugin painting. There's a wee bit of culture." He resigned his post soon
afterwards.

Most bizarre Mandelson quote

Discussing the Lib Dem mansion tax during the post-election negotiations, asked:
"Haven't the rich suffered enough?"

Swiftest retribution and forced resignation

Lord Young, recruited by David Cameron as the man to slay the monster of "elf
'n' safety", talked about the "so-called recession" and said that many people
had "never had it so good". He quickly found that he was not among them.

Vital yet pointless statistic

£1m

What the parliamentary authorities paid to discover that the MPs owed £1m in
overpaid expenses

Overused phrase of the year

I agree with Nick

Most repeated gaffe

Liam Byrne's jokey welcome note to his successor David Laws:

'I'm afraid there's no money left. Kind regards and good luck'

Captions:

Nick Clegg went from the hero of the debates to being vilified by protesters

Peter Mandelson, who wanted to know whether the rich had suffered enough

Patricia Hewitt, caught plotting against Gordon Brown with Geoff Hoon

LOAD-DATE: December 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU eases migrant visa rules

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 213  words


FEARS of a new wave of back-door immigration into the UK were raised yesterday
after visa requirements for Albanians and Bosnians were dropped by the EU.

From yesterday, citizens from the two countries are now free to make visits of
up to three months to countries of mainland Europe.

Experts fear the move will allow migrants and criminal gangs to take advantage
of weak border controls in eastern European to slip into the UK illegally.

UKIP immigration spokesman, Gerard Batten, said: "This will only lead to another
wave of immigration by the back door and once again prove we do not control our
borders."

Alp Mehmet, spokesman for MigrationWatch campaign group, said: "Once people
establish themselves in mainland Europe it is easier for them to come to this
country. It is an important reminder that we have to maintain control over our
borders and do not give that up."

The decision to end visa requirements for the two Eastern European countries was
made at a meeting of Europe's interior ministers in November.

Holders of biometric passports in the former Yugoslavian republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and Albania, can now legally make visits of up to three months to
the borderless "Schengen Area" of Europe, which includes most EU countries apart
from the UK and Ireland.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Translation costs soar by 40

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 186  words


TOUGHER language tests for new immigrants have again been called for after
Government spending on translators rocketed by 40 per cent in two years -
despite a drive to cut costs.

In 2007, Labour laid out GBP 100million on translation services across Whitehall
and the justice system before pledging to slash the bill. Last year, however,
translating information for non-English speakers rose to an astonishing GBP
140million.

Critics branded the costs a waste of money and demanded that immigrants moving
to Britain be given stricter language tests. Gerard Batten, spokesman for UKIP
said: "It cannot be right that spending on translation is going up like this. It
is another example of the folly of our open border policy.

"We can't control who comes here and then get lumbered with the cost of
translating for them.

People should be let into this country only if they speak the language."

The criminal justice system, including police, courts and prisons, last year
spent GBP 34million on translators.

NHS Direct translates its documents into 200 languages including Esperanto,
which is spoken by just 2,000 people in the UK.

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

EU eases migrant visa rules

SECTION: NEWS; 06

LENGTH: 142  words


FEARS of a new wave of back-door immigration into the UK were raised yesterday
after visa requirements for Albanians and Bosnians were dropped by the EU.

From yesterday, Albanians and Bosnians can now make visits of up to three months
to countries in mainland Europe.

Experts fear it will allow migrants and criminal gangs to take advantage of weak
border controls in eastern European to slip into the UK illegally.

UKIP immigration spokesman, Gerard Batten, said: "This will only lead to another
wave of immigration by the back door and once again prove we do not control our
borders."

Alp Mehmet, spokesman for MigrationWatch campaign group, said: "Once people have
established themselves in mainland Europe it is easier for them to come to this
country.

"It is an important reminder that we have to maintain control over our borders
and do not give that up."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

PM tells EU: Hands off Britain's billions

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 448  words


DAVID Cameron will fight today to stave off attempts by Eurocrats to snatch a
multi-billion handout that will saddle British taxpayers' with a colossal
financial burden for the next decade.

The Prime Minister will tell European leaders that he wants "restraint" when the
EU's long-term budget is decided.

His attempts to rein in Brussels spending comes after next year's EU budget was
agreed yesterday - a controversial 2.9 per cent spending increase in the midst
of a Europe-wide recession.

Euro-MPs were pressing for a 6 per cent rise but settled on a compromise which
sees the annual EU budget grow to Q126.5billion (GBP 106billion) - a move that
will cost British taxpayers an extra GBP 450million a year, taking the UK's
total annual contribution to GBP 8.5billion.

But a larger battle is set to erupt next year when the EU will decide on its
longterm budget, which will run from 2014 and may last seven or even 10 years.

Mr Cameron was due to arrive in Brussels today ahead of a two-day European
Council summit for crunch talks on the EU financial bailout mechanism.

Although it is not on the agenda, the Prime Minister is expected to make it
clear that Britain will push to keep the long-term EU budget to a minimum. A
Downing Street spokesman said: "The Prime Minister wants to see restraint in the
EU budget in the future."

A dispute over creating joint eurozone bonds to help weak European nations will
also spill into today's summit.

Concerns about the eurozone's health deepened after Moody's credit ratings
agency warned that it may downgrade Spain's sovereign debt again, fuelling fears
the country could be next in line for a bail-out after Greece and Ireland.

In Greece, thousands took to the streets in protests marred by violence to
denounce drastic austerity measures.

EU leaders are set to agree on limited changes to the 27-nation bloc's Lisbon
Treaty to create a permanent financial backstop to avoid new debt debacles.

EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso called for member countries to act
in unity. Conservative MEPs voted against the 2.9 per cent budget rise in
Strasbourg yesterday while British Labour MEPs refused to vote.

Earlier this year Mr Cameron had pressed for a spending freeze but was
outnumbered by a majority of EU governments prepared to go to 2.9 per cent.

UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen claimed the Prime Minister could have
held out for less.

She said: "David Cameron seriously underestimated the bargaining power that the
UK brings to the table and he could have held out for, and earned, total budget
freeze. Instead, he fell for the Parliament's bluff and gave them half of what
they wanted, when he could have actually given them nothing."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Commission leader Barroso yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

PM tells EU: Hands off Britain's billions

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 478  words


DAVID Cameron will fight today to stave off attempts by Eurocrats to snatch a
multi-billion handout that will saddle British taxpayers' with a colossal
financial burden for the next decade.

The Prime Minister will tell European leaders that he wants "restraint" when the
EU's long-term budget is decided.

His attempts to rein in Brussels spending comes after next year's EU budget was
agreed yesterday - a controversial 2.9 per cent spending increase in the midst
of a Europe-wide programme of drastic austerity measures in member countries.

Euro-MPs were pressing for a six per cent rise earlier this year but settled on
a compromise which sees the annual EU budget grow to 126.5 billion euros (GBP
106billion) - a move that will cost British taxpayers an extra GBP 450million a
year, taking the UK's total annual contribution to GBP 8.5billion.

But a larger battle is set to erupt next year when the EU will decide on its
longterm budget which will run from 2014 and may last seven or even 10 years.

Mr Cameron was due to arrive in Brussels today ahead of a two-day European
Council summit for crunch talks on the European financial bail-out mechanism.

Although not on the agenda the Prime Minister is expected to make it clear that
Britain will push to keep the longterm EU budget to a minimum.

A Downing Street spokesman said:

"The Prime Minister wants to see restraint in the EU budget in the future."

A dispute over creating joint eurozone bonds to help weak European nations will
also spill in to today's summit.

Concerns about the eurozone's health deepened after Moody's credit ratings
agency warned that it may downgrade Spain's sovereign debt again, fuelling fears
that the country could be next in need of a bail-out after Greece and Ireland.

In Greece, thousands of protesters took to the streets in protests marred by
violence to denounce drastic austerity measures.

EU leaders are set to agree on limited changes to the 27-nation bloc's Lisbon
Treaty to create a permanent financial backstop to avoid new debt debacles.

Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso called for member countries to act in
unity.

Conservative MEPs voted against the 2.9 per cent budget rise in Strasbourg
yesterday while British Labour MEPs refused to vote.

Earlier this year Mr Cameron had pressed for a spending freeze but was
outnumbered by a majority of EU governments prepared to increase the budget by
2.9 per cent.

UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen said it was good that the European
Parliament settled for just 2.9 per cent, but claimed Mr Cameron could have held
out for less.

She said: "David Cameron seriously underestimated the bargaining power that the
UK brings to the table and he could have held out for, and earned, total budget
freeze. Instead, he fell for the Parliament's bluff and gave them half of what
they wanted, when he could have actually given them nothing."

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Commission President Barroso yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 16, 2010 Thursday

Political briefing Clegg seeks a surge of optimism and relief from the Judas
jibes

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 588 words


Coalition politics are rarely dull for long. The dust may still be swirling
around the tuition fees showdown, but the focus moves on. This week has seen one
committee of MPs tick off Lib Dem ministers for ditching an £80m hi-tech loan to
Sheffield Forgemasters and another criticise their Tory counterparts for
over-ambitious NHS reforms.

Today may bring relief for Nick Clegg, whose emergence as the coalition's
leading hate figure - its Judas to some voters, so he admitted recently - has
been as dramatic as Cleggmania was last spring. David Cameron has consented to
let his Lib Dem deputy claim a win later today when he announces the process
that may end the detention of children of asylum seekers.

If so, it will be a Lib Dem pledge delivered. But the upbeat moment may not last
long enough to be cherished.

On top of that, the Lib Dems are taking a gamble today by ignoring convention
(it should be Labour's decision) to move the writ for a 13 January byelection in
Oldham East and Saddleworth. It is caused by the judicial expulsion of Labour's
Phil Woolas for lying about his Lib Dem challenger, Elywn Watkins, during the
general election campaign.

Watkins, who went to law after losing by 103 votes, ought to be favourite, but
only 5% divides the three main parties, and it is not yet clear who voters
dislike most: Labour, Lib Dems or the Tories, who are slashing local police
numbers.

"Don't bet on this election - it's a three-way marginal," old hands warn as
Ukip, the BNP's Nick Griffiths and revolting students all threaten to converge
on snowy Pennine slopes. Ed

Miliband will be there today.

In trying to get it over quickly before students can organise - Christmas offers
a 10-day distraction - the Lib Dems are taking a leaf from Labour's government
playbook: nothing to be gained by delay. Win or lose, there is worse to come.
Down to single figures in some polls, the party is braced for losses at council
level (including Clegg's Sheffield base) in May, quite possibly in the
alternative vote referendum, too.

What can the Lib Dems do to alter the public perception that they are repeatedly
being shafted by the wicked Tories and getting the blame, too? They all agreed
that the coalition's first year would be its hardest. But they find it
frustrating being unable to trumpet their successes within the coalition:
wage-linked pensions, a higher tax threshold for the poor, even a progressive
tuition fee package. Why? Because it would require them to boast of negotiating
wins over their Tory partners.

"We're not picking fights," explains one Lib Dem MP. "If Nick articulated
differences, the media would call us a dysfunctional government when we're
actually functioning rather well. It would be counter-productive.

"We're not the sort of government to indulge in dramatic gestures to make a
point," says another. 2011 will see some of their positive achievements become
more visible, they tell each other.

Clegg himself tells visitors "You often cannot defeat emotion with reason," and
he admits that attacks on his party's integrity - its distinctive
characteristic, voters had supposed - is hurtful. So is the "Judas" jibe.

"But that's the real world for you," he told Prospect magazine.

In a midweek Christmas party speech to Policy Exchange, a Tory thinktank, he
argued that the coalition took over when Britain was "close to a collapse of the
economic order" after 20 years of public and private extravagance. He promises
"sweeping transformations" by 2015. Will voters and party activists be patient
until then?

LOAD-DATE: December 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          December 15, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Scandal of the GBP 3million benefits con gypsy who won't pay anything back

BYLINE: By Mark Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 679  words


A ROMANIAN campaigner for gypsies' rights who conned the British taxpayer out of
nearly GBP 3million will not have to repay a penny - because she is broke.

Lavinia Olmazu, 31, who once addressed the UN on gypsy issues, helped
compatriots make hundreds of illegal claims for state benefits.

Along with her husband Alin Enachi, 29, the mother-of-one provided fellow
Romanians with fake documents to obtain National Insurance numbers, allowing
them to apply for working tax credits.

She was jailed for two years and three months last month after she admitted
conspiracy to supply articles for use in the fraud, which netted just under GBP
3million.

At an earlier hearing, Enachi was jailed for two years and eight months, while a
third man, Cristian Dumitru, 29, received two years and six months.

Yesterday all three were back at Southwark Crown Court for a confiscation
hearing to decide how much of the money could be recovered.

The court heard Olmazu's personal benefit from the scam was agreed at GBP 70,594
and Enachi's was GBP 18,655. Dumitru made GBP 103,261.

The bulk of the GBP 2.9million was paid to individual claimants from the Roma
community, who would give cash to Enachi for forged documents.

However, the court heard Olmazu has no assets in the UK or Romania.

The police were only able to recover five laptops, which will be confiscated.
Other than that, she will not have to pay back a penny.

And her husband will only have to pay GBP 750.

Judge Deborah Taylor told him he will have to serve an extra 28 days' j ail if
he does not hand it over.

Critics said the ruling showed Britain was still a soft touch when it came to
criminal migrants milking the benefits system.

Matthew Sinclair, director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It is absolutely
disgusting that millions of pounds of taxpayers' money has been lost and that
such a pathetically small amount can be recovered.

"It raises serious questions over what has happened to the money and who has
profited from this scam.

"We need a reformed benefit system less vulnerable to this kind of abuse and the
authorities need to explain how it could happen and how they will stop it
happening.

"Finally, there need to be stiff punishments when criminals rip off taxpayers.
If that two-year sentence becomes a year or less in practice, many taxpayers
will feel the criminal justice system isn't doing enough."

Gerard Batten, immigration spokesman for UKIP, said: "Our soft touch welfare
state is a magnet for migrants looking for an easy life at others' expense."

Dumitru, whose father is under investigation in Romania on suspicion of helping
to traffic 181 children into the UK to work as beggars and pickpockets, claimed
he could only pay back around GBP 7,000. Speaking through a translator, he said
last year he bought a house in the Romanian town of Strachina for the equivalent
of between GBP 13,000 and GBP 14,000.

But he claimed the house was now worth around GBP 5,000 to GBP 6,000.

Asked why the value had gone down so sharply, he said: "No-one but another gypsy
would buy it. It's just two rooms and one hallway. It has electricity but water
comes from a well outside."

Dumitru said he paid over the odds for the property because he was homeless and
desperate to house his wife and six children.

Judge Taylor rejected this account and ordered Dumitru to pay back GBP 16,236,
including GBP 1,235 cash found in his home.

He will have three months to pay or he will have to serve an extra nine months
in custody.

Enachi and Olmazu, both of Woodford Green, Essex, each pleaded guilty to a
single count of conspiracy to supply articles for use in fraud between November
1, 2007 and August 6 last year, as did Dumitru, of Tottenham, north London, who
also pleaded guilty to a further two counts of fraud.

Five other Romanians were also given prison terms for their roles in the plot.

Is Britain a soft-touch for benefit fraudsters?

QYES: 0901 030 8342 NO: 0901 030 8343 Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088 No text DXWEDNO
to 80088 Calls cost 25p from a BT landline.

Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: December 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Lavinia Olmazu campaigned for Roma rights before she was jailed last
month
The Daily Express reports the scam

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

MEPs are awarded £91,000 a year in tax-free expenses

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield; Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 568 words


MEPs next year will take home £91,000 in tax-free expenses without having to
provide any proof of expenditure as part of an increased pay and perks package.

A backdated salary rise combined with increased allowances means all 736
European Parliament deputies will receive a New Year's lump sum of more than
£5,400 despite pay freezes and cuts for the voters they represent. It will take
their net personal income to more than £170,000 in 2011.

The payment includes a tax-free, lump sum of expenses worth £3,096 to be paid
into their accounts by Jan 1, backdated from July, 2009.

MEPs will be automatically given £90,800 in "daily subsistence" and in "general
expenditure" expenses next year without having to provide any receipts or proof
of expenditure, an increase of 2.3 per cent. The two allowances are handed out
at a flat rate without any requirement to show that any money has been spent by
MEPs.

The expenses rise comes alongside a two per cent pay increase for 2011 that will
take the salary of MEPs to £80,829 next year, including a backdated sum of
£2,314. The pay rise will mean that British MEPs will next year earn £15,000
more than their colleagues in the House of Commons, who enjoyed only a 1.5 per
cent rise with an annual salary of £65,738.

MPs are entitled to a range of office-based allowances but, unlike MEPs, must
provide receipts for every item of expenditure and all claims are checked.

Whereas MEPs are given more than £250 subsistence just for turning up at the
European Parliament in Brussels or Strasbourg, their British colleagues can only
claim £15 for the cost of an evening meal if the Commons sits after 7.30pm.

While pay and perks payments continue to rise over two per cent for MEPs,
official data shows that the average annual salary for a British worker grew by
just 0.3 per cent to £25,900 in 2010.

Martin Callanan, the leader of the European Conservatives, said the parliament's
administration, known as the "bureau", should not be increasing pay and perks
for already generously paid MEPs.

"The European Parliament really knows how to shoot itself in the foot. MEPs are
not crying out for extra funds in order to do their jobs so why is the
parliament's bureau nodding through further increases?" he said.

Parliamentary administrators were expected to rubber stamp the pay rise
proposals and increases to allowances last night. "This is envisaged as a
routine indexation," said an official. "This is nothing out of the ordinary."

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, said: "At a time of austerity, by demanding this
pay increase the EU bureaucrats have really stuck two fingers up to the British
taxpayer."

Proposals seen by The Daily Telegraph will give MEPs a "daily subsistence" cash
payment of £257 for each of the 184 days the parliament sits next year. "General
expenditure allowance", which is supposed to help MEPs run their local office,
will be increased to £3,627 a month. Both allowances are paid directly into
MEPs' bank accounts.

Arlene McCarthy, a Labour MEP, defended the increased allowances. "I have to pay
more for my accommodation in Strasbourg and Brussels than I did a year ago so it
seems only reasonable that the allowance which covers it goes up. It is
justifiable providing it is genuinely for costs incurred in doing your job as an
MEP," she said.

£170,000 Net personal income of an MEP in 2011, after basic salary and expenses
allowances are taken into account

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Germans want tax system for the whole of Europe, but we must not surrender

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 107  words


BRITONS could soon pay taxes imposed directly by the European Union, it emerged
last night.

Plans that would see Eurocrats plundering the UK for cash through direct taxes,
such as VAT, won crucial backing from the German government.

Signalling a fresh push for power over British affairs and a further threat to
our sovereignty, German finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble insisted closer
political ties were needed within the European Union in the wake o f the
economic crisis.

Nigel Farage, UK Independence Party leader, said: "The people of Britain have
had enough of being told what to do by Brussels - and are quite capable of going
it alone."

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

EU a step closer to ruling on UK taxes

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 431  words


EUROCRATS could get sweeping powers to impose VAT and other direct taxes on
Britain in a new federalist onslaught from Brussels, it emerged last night.

Moves to harmonise tax laws across the European Union came a step closer after
gaining the backing of senior members of the German government.

And one influential figure went even further by predicting that the EU will turn
into a complete political union - effectively a European super-state - within a
decade.

German finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, in an outburst seen as heralding a
fresh onslaught on Britain's sovereignty, said closer political ties were needed
to bind the EU's 27 nations together following the economic crisis.

But the latest moves towards European integration provoked outrage among British
MPs and Euro MPs, adding to the huge surge of support behind the Daily Express
campaign for Britain to quit the EU.

Tory backbencher Gordon Henderson, a member of the Better Off Out group of MPs,
said: "The more foreign politicians talk about interfering with our domestic
affairs, the more it will stiffen the sinews of British people to stand up to
them and to support a referendum on whether or not the country should stay a
member of the EU. The thing about the Germans is that they are honest and say
exactly what they mean.

"The politicians that we should really be wary of are those who hide their
federalist intentions behind weasel words."

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "It seems Herr
Schaeuble has bought into the idea of a European political union lock, stock and
barrel.

"He may see Germany wanting a closer political union and fiscal harmonisation
within Europe, but I can assure him that, if any British politician dared to
suggest this, there would be protests on the streets of the UK that would make
the student unrest seem like a garden party.

"What is clear, however, and not least through the Daily Express campaign, is
that the people of Britain have had enough of being told what to do by Brussels
and they are quite capable of going it alone."

Matthew Sinclair, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The euro has been a
complete disaster, leaving entire countries facing economic ruin. It is shocking
that European politicians are planning on responding to that failure with the
same old, toxic medicine of even more integration."

Further fears about Brussels meddling were raised last night when it emerged
from a leaked letter that France, Germany and Poland were pressing for a far
greater defence and security role for the EU. Defence Secretary Liam Fox is
opposed to the move.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 14, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Uproar at German plot for you to pay tax directly to EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 471  words


EUROCRATS could get sweeping powers to impose VAT and other direct taxes on
Britain in a new federalist onslaught from Brussels, it emerged last night.

Moves to harmonise tax laws across all European Union countries came a step
closer after gaining the backing of senior members of the German government.

And one influential figure went even further by predicting that the EU will turn
into a complete political union - effectively a European super-state - within a
decade.

German finance minister Wolfgang Schaeuble, in an outburst seen as heralding a
fresh onslaught on Britain's sovereignty, said closer political ties were needed
to bind the EU's 27 nations together following the economic crisis.

But the latest moves towards European integration provoked outrage among both
British and Euro MPs, adding to the huge surge of support behind the Daily
Express crusade for Britain to quit the EU.

Tory backbencher Gordon Henderson, a member of the Better Off Out group of MPs,
said: "The more foreign politicians talk about interfering with our domestic
affairs, the more it will stiffen the sinews of British people to stand up to
them and to support a referendum on whether or not the country should stay a
member of the EU. The thing about the Germans is that they are honest and say
exactly what they mean.

"The politicians that we should really be wary of are those who hide their
federalist intentions behind weasel words."

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "It seems Herr
Schaeuble has bought into the idea of a European political union lock, stock and
barrel.

"He may see Germany wanting a closer political union and fiscal harmonisation
within Europe but I can assure him that, if any British politician dared to
suggest this, there'd be protests on the streets that would make the current
wave of student unrest seem like a garden party.

What is clear, however, and not least through the Daily Express campaign, is
that the people of Britain have had enough of being told what to do by Brussels
and they are quite capable of going it alone."

Matthew Sinclair, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The euro has been a
disaster, leaving entire countries facing economic ruin. It is shocking that
European politicians are planning on responding to that failure with the toxic
medicine of more integration."

Eurocrats have long discussed plans for harmonising sales duties, levies on fuel
and energy, and other taxes across the euro-zone. But until now, the Germany
resisted the initiative.

Further fears about Brussels meddling were raised last night when it emerged
from a leaked letter that France, Germany and Poland were pressing for a far
greater defence and security role for the EU.

But Whitehall sources said Defence Secretary Liam Fox was determined to resist
British troops being part of any EU force.

LOAD-DATE: December 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Anger at UK's GBP 1bn bill to aid Turkey, Serbia and Albania to join the EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 265  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats are pouring billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash into
helping countries such as Turkey and Albania join the European Union, it emerged
yesterday.

Around GBP 8.3billion has been allocated to an EU "accession" fund that provides
financial assistance for nations wanting to join.

And the cash - including around GBP 1.1billion from Britain - is being handed
out even to countries with little hope of joining the EU in the foreseeable
future.

Turkey, Albania, Bosnia, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia and Serbia are among the
nations attempting to oin the EU in a new accession wave that are benefiting
from money designed to bring their economies and infrastructure closer to
European standards.

But investigators claim many of the schemes receiving cash are riddled with
irregularities and suspected fraud. Turkey, with a predominantly Muslim
population of 78 million, is getting GBP 3.2billion from the EU between 2007 and
2013.

The cash has been handed out despite EU leaders saying Turkey is not yet ready
for EU membership.

Albania will receive GBP 320million over five years despite there being no
current negotiations on the poverty-stricken state joining the EU. Bosnia and
Herzegovina is to receive GBP 363million despite not even applying to join the
EU.

UK Independence Party MEP William Dartmouth said: "British families facing
difficult financial times and possible job losses will be dismayed to discover
that we are being forced to give money to countries like Albania and Serbia."

Q Should Brussels give your money to non-EU nations?

YES: 0901 030 8338 NO: 0901 030 8339

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Anger at UK's GBP 1bn bill to help A lbania and Serbia join EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 537  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats are pouring billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash into
helping countries such as Turkey and Albania join the European Union, it emerged
yesterday.

Around GBP 8.3billion has been allocated to an EU "accession" fund that provides
financial assistance for nations wanting to join.

And the cash - including around GBP 1.1billion from Britain - is being handed
out even to countries with little hope of joining the EU in the foreseeable
future.

Turkey, Albania, Bosnia, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia and Serbia are among the
nations attempting to join the EU in a new accession wave that are benefiting
from money designed to bring their economies and infrastructure closer to
European standards. But investigators claim many of the schemes receiving cash
are riddled with irregularities and suspected fraud.

Turkey, with a predominantly Muslim population of 78 million, is getting GBP
3.2billion from the EU between 2007 and 2013.

The cash has been handed out despite EU leaders, including German Chancellor
Angela Merkel and French President Nicolas Sarkozy, saying Turkey is not yet
ready for EU membership.

Albania will receive GBP 320million over five years despite there being no
current negotiations on the poverty-stricken state joining the EU. Bosnia and
Herzegovina is to receive GBP 363million despite not even applying to join the
EU.

UK Independence Party MEP William Dartmouth said: "British families facing
difficult financial times and possible job losses will be dismayed to discover
that we are being forced to give money to countries like Albania and Serbia.

It must seem like a bad joke with them as the butt.

"The EU is a corrupt organisation that has not had its accounts signed off for
the past 16 years. So to see it hand over billions of euros to countries such as
Serbia and Albania to fight corruption is frankly ludicrous.

"Has it not crossed their minds that the money they are giving to eradicate
corruption in the police and judiciary is falling straight into the hands of
those who are responsible for the corruption in the first place?

"Not a day goes by without the British public realising just how profligate with
our money the EU is. But this surely must be the final straw.

"Giving money to Turkey, Serbia and Albania among others so they can join this
already bloated union is a step too far."

He added: "It is a bitter pill to swallow for British families facing a period
of austerity."

Mats Persson, of the think-tank Open Europe, said the EU risked "sending
billions of pounds into a black hole".

But one European Commission official said: "Turkey is a candidate and we are
obliged to implement the financial assistance despite the political reality.

"We see this as an investment, as the reforms in the recipient countries will
benefit the EU indirectly."

¬Yvette Cooper will ignite a fresh political storm over Europe today by accusing
David Cameron of turning his back on Brussels.

In her first major speech as shadow foreign secretary, the Labour frontbencher
will accuse the Prime Minister of having a "shrivelled vision of Britain's role
in the world" and of "appeasing Eurosceptics at home".

Q Should Brussels give your money to non-EU nations?

YES: 0901 030 8338 NO: 0901 030 8339

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

Britain bankrolls Turkey's doomed plan to join EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 293  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats are pouring billions of pounds of taxpayers' cash into
helping countries such as Turkey and Albania apply to join the European Union.

Around GBP 8.3billion has been allocated to an EU "accession" fund that provides
financial assistance for nations wanting to join the trade bloc.

And the cash - including around GBP 1.1billion from Britain - is being handed
out even to countries with little hope of joining the EU in the foreseeable
future. Turkey, Albania, Bosnia, Montenegro, Croatia, Macedonia and Serbia are
among nations attempting to join the EU in a new accession wave that are
benefiting from money designed to bring their economies and infrastructure
closer to European standards.

But investigators claim many of the schemes receiving cash are riddled with
irregularities and suspected fraud.

Turkey, with a predominantly Muslim population of 78million, is getting GBP
3.2billion from the EU between 2007 and 2013. The cash has been handed out
despite EU leaders including Angela Merkel and Nicolas Sarkozy saying Turkey is
not ready for EU membership. Albania is in line for GBP 320million although
there are no current negotiations on the former communist state joining the EU.

Bosnia and Herzegovina is to receive GBP 363million despite not even applying to
join.

UK Independence Party Euro MP William Dartmouth said:

"Giving money to Turkey, Serbia and Albania amongst others so they can join this
already bloated union is a step too far."

Mats Persson, of the think tank Open Europe, said the EU risked "sending
billions of pounds into black hole.

But one European Commission official said: "There is little hope that the EU
would be able to accept Turkey as a full member.

However, we are obliged to implement the financial assistance."

LOAD-DATE: December 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 13, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Florida pastor may be barred from the UK;
EXTREMISM

BYLINE: Lewis Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 248 words


Theresa May, the Home Secretary, is to consider banning the US pastor Terry
Jones from travelling to Britain at the invitation of a far-right organisation
to speak on "the evils and destructiveness of Islam". Pastor Jones provoked
widespread outrage earlier this year with his plan to burn a pile of Korans
outside his church in Gainsville, Florida, and has been invited to address a
rally of the English Defence League (EDL).

Ms May said that she will be "actively looking" at whether he should be allowed
into the country. Any decision to deny him entry would be taken on the basis of
whether it was regarded as "not conducive to public good" or on the grounds that
national security was threatened. "Pastor Terry Jones has been on my radar for a
few months now," she said.

The pastor has said he will speak against "the Islamification of England" but he
promised he had no intention of provoking a riot.

George Readings, a spokesman for the counter-extremism think tank the Quilliam
Foundation, said the EDL's protests had a "track record of degenerating into
violence" and added: "This suggests that his presence in the UK will not be
conducive to the public good." Shami Chakrabarti, director of Liberty, said he
should stay in the US: "The Home Secretary might be forgiven for thinking we
have enough nutters of our own."

Nigel Farage, the leader of Ukip, called for the pastor to be allowed into
Britain: "I think he is an unhelpful and divisive character but I do believe in
free speech."

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 12, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£10m kitty keeps MEPs in the jet set

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 393 words


MORE than £10m has been earmarked by the European parliament for members to
travel to South Africa, Caribbean islands and other countries where they have
enjoyed lavish accommodation and entertainment.

Funds for these delegations to meet local MPs - deemed "junkets" by critics -
will come from the European Union budget that is expected to be agreed this
week. The £105 billion budget represents a 2.9% increase on this year's
spending. Parliament had wanted a 6% increase but this was reduced after
protests from David Cameron and other European leaders.

A trip to South Africa has already been scheduled for February, when five MEPs
will travel business-class and stay in top hotels at a total cost to the
taxpayer of almost £100,000.

The trip is an annual ritual: a delegation headed by Labour's Michael Cashman,
the former EastEnders actor, in May stayed at the five-star Westin Grand hotel
in Cape Town, which has a golf course and views of Table Mountain. After meeting
South African MPs and representatives of non-governmental organisations, the
MEPs enjoyed a "field visit" and wine tasting at the Solms Delta estate. They
also visited the World Cup football stadium in Cape Town and were given a tour
by the mayor.

"South Africa is a very important country to the EU and the meetings are a good
opportunity to increase understanding," Cashman said, adding that talks ranged
from climate change to the Middle East.

A delegation including the Conservative MEPs Richard Ashworth and Giles
Chichester travelled to New Zealand in April. They visited Christchurch and
Wellington, staying in the best hotels. After meeting MPs and academics, they
took guided tours of farms and lunched at the tourist attraction Willowbank,
where they had a chance to observe kiwis in their natural habitat.

"This is all to do with the overweening self-importance of MEPs who give
themselves the trappings of power," said David Campbell Bannerman, an MEP and UK
Independence party spokesman on foreign policy. "These trips are a grotesque
waste of money for eurocrats to go on boondoggling junkets."

British MEPs are regarded as particularly active when it comes to overseas
travel. Labour's David Martin is chairing a newly established Caribbean
delegation that will visit the region next year.

"It is normal for MEPs to take part in such delegations," the European
parliament said.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Michael Cashman, a Labour MEP, led a trip to South Africa where
delegates stayed in a five-star Cape Town hotel, inset

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 12, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Billions wasted on EU wannabes

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 679 words


THE European Union is spending billions of pounds in preaccession assistance for
countries that have no chance of joining the bloc in the foreseeable future.

About £8.3 billion has been allocated up to 2013 to smooth the accession of
Turkey, Albania, Bosnia and several other nations that key European leaders and
Brussels officials say will not become members.

The British taxpayer is contributing £1.1 billion.

The funding is distributed to projects that are supposed to bring the countries
closer to EU standards, but investigators found that schemes involving £100m in
2009 were riddled with irregularities and suspected fraud.

Turkey, with a population of 78m, is a candidate for EU membership and will
receive more than £3.2 billion from Brussels from 2007 to 2013. In 2007 it got
£416m, this year it received £547m and £753m is earmarked for 2012. From 2013
the annual payments will be close to £1 billion.

Yet Angela Merkel, the German chancellor, has joined ranks with French, Austrian
and other leaders to say that Turkey was not fit for full membership and should
accept a "privileged partnership" instead.

"There is little hope that the EU in its present form would be able to accept
Turkey as a full member in the foreseeable future," said an official at the
European commission.

"However, Turkey is a candidate and we are obliged to implement the financial
assistance despite the political reality."

The EU aid to Turkey is poured into projects ranging from reforming its
judiciary to culture and tourism. Some of the money sponsors a television
programme for farmers. Albania, one of Europe's least developed states, has
applied for membership, but the European commission announced that no
negotiations could be opened until the country fulfils basic criteria.
Nevertheless, it is getting £320m for 2007-13 - an amount that will then be
increased.

EU-funded projects in Albania include the improvement of water supply and sewage
systems in coastal regions.

Bosnia and Herzegovina is to receive more than £363m for the same period,
although it h a s n o t a p p l i e d f o r E U membership and is not expected
to be able to do so in the foreseeable future.

"The EU is giving billions to countries such as Turkey, Albania and Bosnia,
although these countries do not have any prospect of actually joining even in
the long term," said the Earl of Dartmouth, a UKIP MEP.

"As millions of British people face an uncertain financial future when the
spending review comes fully into force, it is high time for the EU to learn some
respect for its taxpayers."

Other countries that receive pre-accession assistance include Serbia and
Montenegro, which have applied but are awaiting a response from the commission,
as well as Croatia and Macedonia, which are candidates.

Much of the money delivered via the pre-accession funds is to fight corruption
but critics say there is not sufficient control over the spending.

EU investigators found that tenders were rigged in some projects paid for by the
aid. However, Brussels refused to reveal details of the abuses it had
discovered.

"Has it not occurred to the EU that the money they are giving to eradicate
corruption in the police and judiciary is likely to fall straight into the hands
of those who are responsible for the corruption in the first place?" said Lord
Dartmouth.

Mats Persson, head of the London-based think tank Open Europe, said the EU
risked "sending billions of taxpayers' money into a black hole" if there was no
prospect of recipient countries joining the bloc. The European commission said
the aid would eventually benefit the EU as well as the recipient countries. "We
see this as an investment, as the reforms in the recipient countries will
benefit the EU indirectly."

A critical report of the European Court of Auditors earlier this year found that
there was no "sound basis for monitoring performance, including value for money"
of the pre-accession assistance to Turkey and that "specific and measurable
objectives for that assistance were not set and the timescales to achieve those
objectives" were not realistic.

LOAD-DATE: December 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Talking poverty... with champagne;
World Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 91 words


The European Commission has been condemned for spending (EURO)3million
(£2.5million) to entertain 6,000 people at an anti-poverty conference in
Brussels. The events took place on the sidelines of the "European Development
Days" conference. On the final day, participants were invited to a cocktail
party with unlimited champagne and expensively catered canapés.

Andris Piebalgs, the European Commissioner for Development, said it had "helped
shape thinking on future EU development policy". Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP
called it "profligate waste".

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

EU budget rise to cost UK taxpayers extra GBP 450m a year

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 462  words


FURY was growing last night after Brussels chiefs backed an increase to next
year's EU budget in a move that will cost British taxpayers an extra GBP
450million a year.

The European Parliament's political group leaders have agreed to a 2.9 per cent
budget increase for 2011. It will see the UK's total annual contribution leap to
a colossal GBP 8.5billion.

Although the decision is not binding, a crunch vote will be held next week when
member states, including Britain, are expected to give their final approval.

The European Commission and Euro MPs have been at loggerheads over the size of
the increase. The Commission backs a 2.9 per cent rise but Euro MPs want 6 per
cent.

David Cameron has come under increasing pressure over the thorny issue after he
pledged that there would be no increase in the budget.

UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen last night blamed the Prime Minister for the expected
rise.

"The Parliament finally got what they wanted, because Cameron refused to play
hard ball, " she said. "They don't need this money and can't be trusted with
this money, in the light of the failure of the EU's auditors to sign off the
accounts. Don't be fooled, these increases this year are not the end - 2.9 per
cent is the lowest that it will increase.

They are agreeing to increase funds on an item-by-item basis over the course of
the year."

The committee vote follows talks between acting Belgian prime minister Yves
Leterme and Jerzy Buzek, president of the European Parliament, to resolve the
outstanding issues between the two sides. Belgium, which holds the rotating
presidency of the EU, has been leading negotiations on behalf of member states.
Mr Buzek said parliament was now "resigned" to the likelihood that the 2011
budget would see a rise of around 2.9 per cent, less than half of what the
parliament wanted. A 2.9 per cent increase will see the EU's budget soar to GBP
106billion.

But Mr Buzek dismissed the idea that the next long-term, financial settlement
for the EU, which will cover the period from 2014 to 2020, should be based on
the principle of austerity.

"I don't think so, because there is a very high cost for non-Europe, " he said,
referring to the cross-EU projects that will not take place if there is
insufficient funding. "Creating jobs, lifelong learning, training, education,
everything that is connected with creating jobs needs to be the focus, " he
said. "So we need much more for unlocking the potential of the European
regions."

The dispute has been widely seen as a show of strength by the European
Parliament which, under the Lisbon treaty, now enjoys co-decision powers with
member states on the EU budget for the first time. MEP chief negotiator Sidonia
Jedrzejewska said: "I am glad to see the committee voted in favour of the new
draft budget."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marta Andreasen blames Mr Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU chiefs back budget rise that'll cost you GBP 450m more

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 16

LENGTH: 464  words


FURY was growing last night after Brussels chiefs backed an increase to next
year's EU budget in a move that will cost British taxpayers an extra GBP
450million a year.

The European Parliament's political group leaders have agreed to a 2.9 per cent
budget increase for 2011. It will see the UK's total annual contribution leap to
a colossal GBP 8.5billion.

Although the decision is not binding, a crunch vote will be held next week when
member states, including Britain, are expected to give their final approval.

The European Commission and Euro MPs have been at loggerheads over the size of
the increase. The Commission backs a 2.9 per cent rise but Euro MPs want six per
cent.

David Cameron has come under increasing pressure over the thorny issue after he
pledged that there would be no increase in the budget.

But Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen last night blamed the Prime Minister for the
expected rise.

"The Parliament finally got what they wanted, because Cameron refused to play
hard ball, " she said.

"They don't need this money and can't be trusted with this money, in the light
of the failure of the EU's auditors to sign off the accounts. Don't be fooled,
these increases this year are not the end - 2.9 per cent is the lowest that it
will increase.

They are agreeing to increase funds on an item-byitem basis over the course of
the year."

The committee vote follows talks between acting Belgian prime minister Yves
Leterme and Jerzy Buzek, president of the European parliament, to resolve the
outstanding issues between the two sides.

Belgium, which holds the rotating presidency of the EU, has been leading
negotiations on behalf of member states.

Mr Buzek said that parliament was now "resigned" to the likelihood that the 2011
budget would see a rise of around 2.9 per cent, less than half of what the
parliament wanted. A 2.9 per cent increase will see the EU's budget soar to GBP
106billion.

But Mr Buzek dismissed the idea that the next long-term, financial settlement
for the EU, which will cover the period from 2014 to 2020, should be based on
the principle of austerity.

"I don't thin k so, because there is a very high cost for non-Europe, " he said,
referrin g to the cross-EU projects that will not take place i f there is
insufficient funding.

"Creating jobs, lifelong learning, training, education, everythin g that is
connected with creatin g jobs needs to be the focus, " he said. "So we need much
more for unlocking the potential of the European regions."

The dispute has been widely seen as a show of strength by the European
parliament which, under the Lisbon treaty, now enjoys co-decision powers with
member states on the EU budget for the first time.

MEP chief negotiator Sidonia Jedrzejewska said: "I am glad to see the committee
voted in favour of the new draft budget."

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marta Andreasen blames Mr Cameron

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 11, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Schott's Almanac-2010

SECTION: SATURDAY REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 8356 words


PERSON OF THE YEAR  MILI CLEG ERON

The person of 2010 is a political composite: the Mili Cleg Eron is a
well-schooled, Oxbridge-educated, London-centric, white, married, heterosexual,
40-something male. The Mili Cleg Eron has never depended on benefits, earned
minimum wage, or lived in council housing. The Mili Cleg Eron has never run a
business, worked in a hospital, walked the beat, taught in a school, served in
the military, or laboured in agriculture, manufacturing, or construction. The
Mili Cleg Eron has, however, toiled at the coalface of journalism, PR, and
research before segueing into office.

Confident, polished, dark-suited, managerial (not ideological), and urban (not
urbane) - the Mili Cleg Eron is now running Britain, and is likely to do so for
the foreseeable future. The Mili Cleg Eron represents a range of individuals:
David Cameron, Nick Clegg, much of the Cabinet and Shadow Cabinet, and 4 out of
5 of Labour's leadership candidates - 2 of whom are Milibands. (The fifth
candidate, Diane Abbott, her gender and ethnicity aside, still fits much of the
bill.)

In 2010, the longobserved 'disconnect' between MPs and voters was stretched ever
wider. A range of issues urgent to voters (not least immigration) is disdained
by the political class - as Brown's accidental 'bigotgate' candour showed -
making promises of a 'national conversation' about the 'big society' even more
tenuous.

Fearful of this gulf, the Mili Cleg Eron repeats the empty phrase 'what I hear
on the doorstep', and stages photo-shoots doing 'normal' things, like watching
football on TV.  The Mili Cleg Eron's rise has revivified Britain's obsession
with class. Labelling both Cameron and Clegg 'posh', commentators attempted to
parse exactly how posh each was. (According to Ben Macintyre, Cameron is
'Eton-Oxford-countryclubby- cutglass-shooting party sort of posh' whereas Clegg
is 'Westminster-Cambridgemetropolitan- foreign-glottalstoptrustfund sort of
posh'.) Cameron's description of himself as one of the 'sharp-elbowed middle
classes' amused some, to whom being a millionaire Old Etonian married to an
aristocrat hinted at certain upperclass credentials.

To others, the 'sharp-elbowed' element rang true, re- flecting a view that
politicians are on the make - either by maximising their expenses, or by
monetising their experiences (to the tune of millions in the case of Tony
Blair). As the Mili Cleg Eron took office, Labour's old guard took to the
airwaves to plug memoirs in which they came (almost) clean about the feuds they
had spent years vehemently denying. Inside Westminster, such duplicity is part
of the game; outside, it reinforces the belief that politicians just don't 'get
it'.

One could argue that the Mili Cleg Eron's ascendancy is temporary and that (like
the Con-Lib coalition) it will falter if the economy struggles and the cuts
bite. Or, it could be that Britain is coming to terms with a new political
elite, described by Michael Woolf as 'the post-class upper class'.

In 1973, Margaret Thatcher famously erred when she said, 'I don't think there
will be a woman prime minister in my lifetime'. But for everything that has
changed in Britain in the intervening 37 years, it is notable that the dominance
of the Mili Cleg Eron means that a female, ethnic-minority, gay, or proudly
working-class prime minister seems as unlikely now as then.

SCI, TECH, NET SIGNIFICA

Egypt's telecommunications regulatory body released a 16-point 'Ethics Code' for
the use of mobile phones. Users were advised to avoid speaking loudly in public,
to be patient when encountering wrong numbers, and to choose 'non-annoying' ring
tones.

The Royal Society of Chemistry launched a competition to find an octogenarian as
'well preserved' as the actor Sean Connery, in an attempt to highlight the role
of British science in preserving the health of the nation. The winner was
Edinburgh resident Bill Lamond, who received a collection of Connery's films, a
tracksuit, £300 in cash, and a 20-year subscription to Chemistry World magazine.

Facebook announced that it would give users the option to 'memorialise' profiles
of family members and friends who have passed away, shutting off status updates
and wiping contact information but leaving a 'wall' for loved ones to share
memories.

Google ignited a frenzy of competition among US cities after announcing that it
was seeking locations to test its new ultrafast broadband service. The mayor of
Topeka, Kansas, temporarily re-named his town 'Google', while the mayor of
Duluth, Minnesota, announced that all first-born males there would be named
'Google Fiber' and girls, 'Googlette'.

Scientists at NASA said the 8 8 magnitude earthquake that struck Chile had
shortened the length of an Earth day by 1 26 milliseconds. The change was said
to be due to the effect of the earthquake on the Earth's rotation, which will
now spin slightly faster.

Mattel added the title 'Computer Engineer' to Barbie's lengthy résumé. The 'I
Can Be Computer Engineer' Barbie wore a tunic patterned with binary code,
sported a pink Bluetooth headset, and carried a pink laptop.

The market intelligence firm IDC estimated that, in 2009, the total amount of
digital information in the world grew 62%, to 800,000 petabytes - and that by
the end of 2010 the total would reach 1 2 zettabytes.

A Bulgarian mobile number was reportedly decommissioned after 3 of its owners
died. (The first of cancer, and the latter two after being shot.) People who
call 0888 888 888 get a message saying the phone is 'outside network coverage'.

ROYAL FLICKR

In June 2010, Buckingham Palace opened an account on photo-sharing site Flickr.
The website - flickr.com/photos/britishmonarchy - contains thousands of archive
images, as well as regularly updated shots of the Royal family 'at work'. The
five photographs of Prince William and Kate Middleton taken at their engagement
announcement press-call in November have been viewed 38,414 times to date.

WORDS OF THE YEAR

SOCIAL

SPOT FIXING   manipulating a specific event in a sports match (e.g., no-balls in
cricket) as part of a betting scam.

THE TIGER RECESSION   the economic consequence for golf of Woods's withdrawal
from the game.

MAMILS   Middle-Aged Men In Lycra - a disturbing by-product of the trend in
cycling.

HEAVAGE   male cleavage - an exposed (and often buffed) chest.

INCIDENTALOMAS   tumours discovered by accident during medical exams.

SHOWMANCE   a showbiz romance faked for public relations purposes.

WINTER WHAMMY   the causes of unusually high domestic heating bills - a bitter
winter and rising fuel costs.

PAEDO POUND   allegation that some companies make products to profit from the
sexualisation of young children: e.g., padded bikini tops for 7-year-olds.

GENERATION R   those who kept their jobs during the recession but took on more
responsibility for the same pay.

SHINY FLOOR SHOWS   bold, brash light-entertainment TV shows, such as Strictly
Come Dancing.

GLAMAZON GRANDMOTHERS   fashion-following grannies.

SWOFTIES   Single Women Over Fifty.

DIVORCE CLUSTERING   the increased incidence of divorce among those whose
friends or family are divorced.

MEDIA STACKING   using two (or more) forms of media simultaneously - e.g.,
surfing the net while watching TV.

SUICIDE CUISINE   unhealthy (fast) food. Also GASTROGROTESQUERIE. SBNR
Spiritual But Not Religious. DOGLERS   dogless dog-lovers who ogle other
people's pooches.

TOP HAT, TOP KILL, & JUNK SHOT   three mooted means of halting the Deepwater
Horizon spill.

NEO FRUGALISTS   thrifty young consumers who are happy to buy secondhand,
barter, or defer a purchase.

ODYSSEY YEARS   the period in a person's twenties before careers and
relationships have settled.

EQUAL OPPORTUNITY PESTS   vermin - such as bedbugs - which afflict the entire
socio-economic spectrum. GREYCATION   holidays made possible by the
participation of grandparents.

PUBLICY   when the public, not the private, is the default state - for
politicians, businesses, and even individuals.

AIDWASHING   the charge that rich nations may be repackaging existing aid as
'green aid' to avoid giving more money to the developing world.

DATING DOWN   seeking a relationship with someone less successful.

iPOD OBLIVION   the inattentiveness of those engrossed with iPods, etc.

LINNER & DUNCH   portmanteau terms for late-afternoon dining.

SEXSOMNIA   a sleep disorder where sufferers engage in sexual activities while
sleeping.

GENERATION XD   the youngest generation that has never known life without the
internet. [Generation X + D(igital)]

POLITICAL

LLYGATE   the furore surrounding allegations that Brown presided over an
intimidatory atmosphere in No. 10. The Sun's front page headline was: THE PRIME
MONSTER.

DAMP RAG   MEP Nigel Farage's caustic description of EU President Herman Van
Rompuy: 'I don't want to be rude but, really, you have the charisma of a DAMP
RAG and the appearance of a LOW GRADE BANK CLERK.'

OIK   Reportedly, George Osborne's Oxford 'Bullingdon Club' nickname (because he
was schooled at St Paul's, not Eton). BIGOTGATE   Brown's disastrous encounter
with Gillian Duffy - a 65-year-old life-long Labour supporter - whom he
described as 'just this sort of bigoted woman who said she used to be Labour'.

CHIHUAHUAS   Conservatives In their Head, UKIP At Heart. ED BALLS'S PORTILLO
MOMENT   the campaign against Ed Balls to create a defining election-night
moment akin to Michael Portillo's ousting in 1997.

George Osborne reportedly called it the CASTRATION STRATEGY - a pun on the
party's DECAPITATION strategy of targeting senior Labour MPs.

#GORDONWHO   a Twitter tag established to track down 'rare examples' of Labour
candidates using photos of Brown in their election material. Also CYANIDE ON THE
DOORSTEP   a description of Brown from one Labour candidate, reported in The
Times. TOM, DICK, HARRY   nicknames for Cameron's three election battle buses.

LONG TOFFEE NOSE   Peter Mandelson's description of Cameron; he also called
Cameron and Osborne JUST A COUPLE OF KIDS IN SCHOOL TROU SERS. Also RADIO FACE
Neil Kinnock's description of Brown. Also COMETH THE HOUR, COMETH THE TAN   quip
about Tony Blair's pre-vote return to Britain to campaign for Brown.

I AGREE WITH NICK   a refrain from the first leaders' debate, when Brown,
especially, was eager to associate himself with Clegg. Also CLEGGMANIA and
CLEGGISM   the surge in popularity for Nick 'Obama' Clegg who, according to a
poll days after the first debate, was the most popular party leader since
Winston Churchill, with an approval rating of 72%.

SCRAMBLED CLEGG AND TOAST BUT CAMERON'S FULL OF BEANS  the Sun's headline take
on Clegg and Brown after the third debate.

THE LONG GORDBYE   the Sun's take on Brown's reluctance to quit office.

Also CEAUSESCU MOMENT   threat by some Labour supporters of what would happen
should Brown cling to power.

RAINBOW or TRAFFIC LIGHT COAL TION   nickname for a possible deal between the
'reds, yellows, and greens', i.e., Labour, Lib Dems, various N Irish MPs, and
the Greens' Caroline Lucas. Also COALITION OF THE LOSERS.

Also PROGRESSIVE ALLIANCE. Also CLUNK CLEGG   nickname for a possible Lib-Lab
coalition deal. Also CON DEM   supposedly arch description of the Tory-Lib Dem
coalition. Also BROKEBACK COALITION   a description of the uneasy relationship
between Clegg and Cameron. I'M AFRAID THERE IS NO MONEY.

KIND REGARDS AND GOOD LUCK   the text of a 'joke' letter left by the outgoing
Chief Sec. to the Treasury, Liam Byrne to whomever would replace him.

STUPID, SANCTIMONIOUS DWARF   the Health Minister Simon Burns's description of
Speaker John Bercow; reported in Hansard as 'interruption'.

OBJECT OF THE YEAR   THE ROOF

Humans have sought shelter since they first crawled into caves, and a 'roof over
your head' remains one of life's essentials. Yet, events around the world this
year highlighted the fragility of shelter, even in the wealthiest of societies.

Some of the year's most harrowing images were of houses swept away by floods
(Cumbria, Pakistan) or pulverised by earthquakes (Haiti, Chile, China). The
numbers left homeless by these disasters (c.1 5m in China, c.2m in Haiti, c.5m
in Pakistan) are almost incomprehensible. After the Haiti quake, >1m endured the
rainy season in hastily constructed tarp-roofed shacks. Port-au-Prince alone had
>500 camps, where residents without doors or locks fought against theft and
rape, as well as exposure and disease. Relief agencies constructed 'T-shelters'
from bamboo and steel - though, despite their name (T=temporary), these
structures are built to last, recognition that many Haitians will not enjoy
secure housing for years.

Many of those spared nature's wrath were nonetheless forced to confront the
fragility of their shelter. As housing markets slumped across the West, some
warned that the 'iron law' of house price growth was cracked, so that home
ownership was no longer a nest egg guaranteed to appreciate. In August, the
Chartered Institute of Housing declared that Britain's 'golden age of home
ownership' was over, and called for an end to the 'right-to-buy, wrong-to-rent'
mentality.

Although many mortgagers have, thus far, been cushioned by sustained,
historically low interest rates, RealtyTrac estimated that >1m US homes would be
foreclosed on in 2010, and Britain's National Housing Federation predicted that
those who bought at the boom's height in 2007 may not escape negative equity
until 2014. (It is darkly ironic, in light of this year's floods, that those in
negative equity are said to be 'under water'.)

Disturbingly, the fragility of shelter in the West is not necessarily linked to
supply. Europe's house building boom (in Spain construction grew by >187%
between 1996-2006) created such a glut, that unfinished 'ghost estates' scar
many a landscape (Ireland has c.300,000 vacant properties). In April, the
Guardian estimated that the UK's c.450,000 empty homes could house 25% of those
on council waiting lists.

While declining birth rates in E Europe have led to 'perforated cities' -
abandoned conurbations crumbling into 'feral wastelands' - booming populations
elsewhere are straining the supply of housing. China alone needs c.40bn m2 of
new commercial and residential floor space by 2030. Also, the UN estimates that
the number of slum-dwellers worldwide will rise from 827m today, to 889m in
2020.

Faced with the need for quick and cheap shelter, a range of solutions have
emerged. Some are ingenious, such as the repurposing of shipping containers to
house students (France), refugees (Gaza), prisoners (New Zealand), soldiers
(Afghanistan), schools (Jamaica), or entire villages (Haiti). Others are more
elemental, such as the emergence across the US of small, informal 'tent cities',
where the newly homeless band together.

It is curious that shelter became one of the year's defining issues because of
disasters both natural and man-made (though the US housing collapse has been
described as a tsunami). It seems likely that in the years to come, the most
basic human requirement - a roof over one's head - will be taken less and less
for granted.

TWEET SEATS

In 2010, several theatres experimented with the concept of 'tweet seats' -
designated areas of the playhouse in which theatre-goers are free to share
thoughts about the performance they are watching (or anything else) via the
micro-messaging service Twitter. Theatres with 'tweet seats' for some 2010
performances included Broadway San Jose and the SF Playhouse, both in
California. The West Yorkshire Playhouse also considered the idea in April,
before rejecting it. Other venues, such as the Sydney Opera House, have made a
point of inviting popular tweeters to their opening performances. Such moves
ignited passionate debate within the theatre community - some argued that typing
on brightly illuminated screens during a play is tantamount to heckling, while
others maintained that in-performance tweets could serve as good publicity, and
potentially attract much-needed younger audiences.

SUBSTANCE OF THE YEAR   'UNOBTAINIUM'

In James Cameron's 2009 sci-fi blockbuster Avatar, 'Unobtainium' is a precious
mineral mined on the moon 'Pandora'. Unfortunately for Pandora's natives,
deposits of Unobtianium (valued at $20,000,000/ kg) lie just under their most
sacred site. While some giggled at the term 'Unobtainium' (long-used by
aerospace engineers to describe hard-to-procure materials), others drew
uncomfortable parallels between the fictional dilemmas of Pandora and real-life
issues concerning increasingly vital 'rare earth elements' REEs.

REEs are 17 metallic elements, usually found together in the same mineral
deposits, which share similar properties - for example, high electrical
conductivity. Once thought to be rare, REEs have now been found across the
Earth's crust - although locating exploitable concentrations is problematic, and
separating REEs from the minerals in which they occur is complex and costly. In
recent decades, REEs have proved crucial to the burgeoning high-tech, defence,
and green energy sectors. Neodymium is used in the magnets inside hard drives,
cell phones, wind turbines, and hybrid cars. Lanthanum is a prime component in
the battery of the Toyota Prius. (Each Prius is said to contain some 25lbs of
REEs.) Terbium is critical for low-energy light bulbs; Samarium for
precision-guided weaponry; Dysprosium for lasers, nuclear reactors, compact
discs, and hard drives; and Erbium for fibre optics. Every new vehicle uses
Yttrium for fuel efficiency, and all new TVs rely on Europium to produce the
colour red.

More than 90% of the world's REE supply is mined in China - a dominance that
results from Beijing's controversial efforts in the 1980s and 1990s to flood the
market with cheap REEs, forcing out competition. In 2009 China mooted an export
ban on some REEs because of growing domestic demand. Beijing later backed down,
but has since imposed tight regulations and export quotas. Fearing that China's
own REE supply may be dwindling, several countries (e.g., Japan and S Korea) are
stockpiling REEs, and interest has spiked in Canadian, Australian, and S African
mines - though these will take some years to develop.

The lesson of REEs seems to be that, as with nuclear power and oil, the world is
again becoming reliant on hazardous-to-source materials found, often, in
unstable places. In Africa, Tantalum (used in missiles, surgical implants, &c.)
is fi- nancing the blood-soaked Second Congo War - alongside other 'conflict
minerals' such as tin, tungsten, and gold.

As the gap widens between our shiny high-tech toys and the grind of their
production, we may be forced to scrutinise the 'ingredients' of our electronics,
in the same way that we increasingly scrutinise the ingredients of our food.

SCIENTIFIC NAMES OF THE YEAR

Some odd and unusual names for the plant and animal species discovered this
year:

Crikey steveirwini   Australian snail named for naturalist Steve Irwin.
PancakeCroc, BoarCroc, and RatCroc   ancient crocodile cousins from the Sahara.
Leviathan melvillei   extinct whale named for Moby-Dick author Herman Melville.
Fedexia striegeli   fossil amphibian named for FedEx, owners of the discovery
site. Elysia manriquei   sea slug named in honour of artist César Manrique.
Csiromedusa medeopolis   Tasmanian jellyfish named for the Commonwealth
Scientific & Industrial Research Organisation [CSIRO]; 'Medeopolis' is Latin for
'city of gonads' - a reference to the species' external reproductive glands.

ANIMALS IN THE NEWS

Paul the Octopus - an actual octopus, resident in Germany's Oberhausen Sea Life
Aquarium - became a global star during the 2010 World Cup after he accurately
forecast the winner of every German game, and the final. Paul made his
predictions by selecting a mussel from one of two boxes marked with flags. In
the glare of media interest and, reportedly, death threats from angry fans, Paul
was retired from his disturbingly accurate bivalve-based prognostication. (Paul
died on 26 October.)

Indian police detained a pigeon suspected of spying for Pakistan. The bird was
caught in the Punjab state with a ring around its foot and a Pakistani phone
number stamped on its body. Police said they were keeping the pigeon under armed
guard, and would not allow visitors.

The world's oldest sheep, 'Lucky', died aged 22 after a spate of hot weather in
her home country, Australia. In her final years Lucky suffered from increasingly
angry mood swings, and had to be hand-fed crushed grain after her teeth fell
out.

An article in Current Biology described octopuses in Indonesia prying coconut
shells from the ocean bed, scurrying away with the shells in their arms, and
then hiding beneath them. Scientists said the behaviour was an astonishing
example of tool use.

University of Australia scientists searching for a new method to combat the
invasive (and hideous) cane toad discovered that cat food placed near breeding
ponds lured hordes of meat ants, which then attacked and killed the baby toads.
Cane toads have been the scourge of Australia since they were introduced in the
1950s to control beetles. Previous eradication techniques have involved carbon
dioxide, cricket bats, and/or golf clubs.

A US geriatrician published a book about the uncanny abilities of a cat named
Oscar, who lived at a nursing home. Oscar was said only to visit patients very
close to death - his prescience was so unerring that staff began alerting the
relatives of any patient with whom he chose to sit.

A German student caused a traffic jam after he threw a puppy at a group of Hells
Angels before escaping on a bulldozer. No motive for his attack was given; the
puppy escaped unharmed.

A man in County Durham lost his driving licence after he was caught 'walking'
his dog by extending its lead out of the window of his moving car.

MUSICAL TRIBUTES TO SCIENCE

In February 2010, the official choir of the European Organisation for Nuclear
Research CERN performed a song dedicated to the Large Hadron Collider. The
Particle Physicists' Song, written by amateur songwriter Danuta Orlowska, is
sung to the tune of The Hippopotamus Song by Flanders and Swann. It includes the
lyrics: 'Higgs, Higgs, glorious Higgs / The theory told them these thingumajigs
/ Were so fundamental ...'. In November, the choir released an album -
Resonance. Splendidly, this was not the first musical tribute to the LHC. In
2008, a CERN press officer created a rap video about the accelerator. The track
began, 'Oh yeah, I'm about to drop some particle physics in da club ...'.
(Predictably, the video was a smash hit on YouTube.) Taking the concept further,
in 2009 Buzz Aldrin joined professional musicians, including Snoop Dogg, to
release a rap commemorating the 1969 lunar landing. Rocket Experience featured
the octogenarian Aldrin rapping lines such as, 'I've been there, now I say it's
your turn; all we've got to do is make the engine burn ...'.

At New York University, a group of neuroscientists called The Amygdaloids play
'heavy mental', while cell biologists and others at Yale have formed The
Cellmates. The Northwestern maths department is home to the Klein Four group:
'the premier a cappella group of the world of higher mathematics'.

EYESPYMP

Although many MPs eagerly embraced social networks, not all were amused by the
launch of the crowd-sourced political Twitter site 'eyespymp' - which publishes
irreverent gossip about the eating, meeting, social, and sartorial habits of
those inside the Westminster village. ('eyespymp' originally tweeted as
'parliament_ spy'). The editor(s) of 'eyespymp' was anonymous at the time of
writing, though it was speculated that 'bored parliamentary researchers' may be
behind the site. In response to criticism, eyespymp noted: 'Our crowd sources
include lackeys, flunkeys, front benchers and cabbies. Many are the people whom
MPs push in front of in queues.' A selection of tweets from 'eyespymp' gives a
flavour of the site, and an indication why some MPs are a little irked: Phyllis
Starkey looking stern and barking into her phone at the doors to Portcullis
House. [01 02 10]

Extracted and adapted from Schott's Almanac 2011 conceived, written & designed
by Ben Schott

Schott's Almanac is published by Bloomsbury at £16.99. To buy it for £15.29 call
0845 2712134 or visit thetimes/bookshop

% of British adults, unless stated source & month 96 think 60s today are 'much
younger in spirit than previous generations' [ICM; Apr] 94 have little to no
trust in political parties [ICM; Feb] 92 believe bringing a laptop on holiday
won't cause arguments [YouGov/Softwareload; Jul] 91 of women prefer a man with a
few flaws to a 'perfect' man [OnePoll; Feb] 86 of men are nagged by their 'other
halves' [OnePoll; Jun] 82 of students in the UK were satisfied with their course
[National Student Survey; Aug] 81 of internet users would go elsewhere if a
once-free site started charging [KPMG; Jul] 80 of Tube users have experienced
overcrowding discomfort [Lond. Assembly; Dec '09] 76 agree the BBC is a national
institution we should be proud of [ComRes; Nov '09] 75 of 16-24s 'couldn't live'
without the internet [YouthNet; Oct '09] 73 of Londoners support the city
hosting the 2012 Olympic Games [Ipsos Mori; Jul] 73 support assisted suicide for
the terminally ill [BBC; Jan] 71 believe the world's climate is changing
(compared to 91% in 2005) [Cardiff University; June] 68 of people have abandoned
a slow-moving queue [Barclays; Aug] 68 of Pakistanis have an unfavourable view
of the US [Pew Research Center; Jul] 64 believe the war in Afghanistan is
unwinnable [ComRes; Nov '09] 63 of Scots believe immediate action is required on
climate change [Ipsos Mori; Nov '09] 60 of 18-34s feel lonely 'often' or
'sometimes' [Mental Health Foundation; May] 59 believe the government should not
be funding 'faith schools' [ICM; Jun] 58 of men lie to their friends about
having seen classic films [Orange; Oct '09] 55 dunk biscuits into their tea or
coffee [OnePoll; Feb] 50 of<35s do not know how to rewire a plug [Halifax Home
Insurance; Aug] 49 of 8-15-year-olds save at least half their pocket money
[Halifax; Dec '09] 47 of 14-year-olds in England report having been bullied
[DCSF; Nov '09] 45 of final-year students view their career prospects as 'very
limited' [High Flyers; May] 44 think Britain is becoming 'less tolerant' of
religion [ComRes; Feb] 43 agreed there should be no legal restrictions on
wearing a burka [ComRes; Jan] 42 of girls wish they could spend more time with
their fathers [Nat. Family Week; Apr] 41 of Americans believe Jesus Christ will
return by 2050 [Pew Research Centre; Jun] 37 support building new nuclear power
stations in the UK [Ipsos Mori; Nov '09] 35 of women keep a 'trophy' pair of
jeans they hope to fit into again [Special K; Dec '09] 33 of mothers don't
consider their 'mum friends' real friends [The Baby Website; May] 28 of Brits
view the internet as a good place to find a relationship [BBC; Feb] 27 'strongly
agree' they have good relationships with their neighbours [YouGov; Feb] 23 of
Scots believe a women is 'partly responsible' for a rape if drunk [Cello MRUK;
Jun] 22 of drivers admit to not wearing their seat belts [Esure; Jun] 22 agree
'a woman's place is in the home' [Reuters/Ipsos; Jan] 20 have sent a racy text
message to the wrong person [SellMyMobile.com; Jul] 18 get less than 5 hours'
sleep on an average week night [YouGov; May] 14 think slapping children is an
unacceptable means of punishment [Children's Soc; Jul] 14 disapprove of
unmarried couples cohabiting [NatCen; Jan] 7 believe the Royal family is the
best role model for a strong family [YouGov; Feb] 6 of girls wish they could
spend more time with their mothers [Nat. Family Week; Apr] 6 spend >1 hour a day
on social networking sites while at work [MyJobGroup; Aug] 2 trust banks more
now than they did five years ago [ICM; Feb] SURVEY RESULTS OF NOTE

MOST POPULOUS COUNTRIES India is projected to overtake China as the globe's most
populous nation in 2025, according to US Census Bureau data released in 2009.
China's population is expected to peak at 14bn in 2026, earlier than
demographers anticipated, as a result of declining fertility. The most populous
nations in 2010 and 2025 are estimated below: 2010 1 . . . . China. . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1330bn 2 . . . . India. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 1173bn 3 . . . . United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 310m 4 .
. . . Indonesia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 242m 5 . . . . Brazil . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 201m 6 . . . . Pakistan . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 177m 7 . . . . Bangladesh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 158m 8 . . . . Nigeria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 152m 9 . .
. . Russia. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 139m 10. . . Japan . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 126m 2025 1 . . . . India. . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 1396bn 2 . . . . China. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 1394bn 3 . . . . United States . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 357m 4 . .
. . Indonesia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 278m 5 . . . . Brazil . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 231m 6 . . . . Pakistan . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 217m 7 . . . . Nigeria . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . 197m 8 . . . . Bangladesh . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 192m 9 . . .
. Ethiopia . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 140m 10. . . Mexico . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 130m MEGA-REGIONS Some of the world's largest
cities are outgrowing their former boundaries and becoming interlinked
mega-regions, according to the UN?HABITAT State of the World Cities 2010/2011.
Economic growth and rapid urbanisation have created at least 40 of these
so-called 'endless cities', which are said to account for 66% of the world's
economic activity. Some of the mega-regions highlighted in the report include:
Mumbai-Delhi corridor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .population c.180m Hong Kong-Shenzen-Guangzhou, China.
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 120m
Nagoya-Osaka-Kyoto-Kobe, Japan. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
60m (projected by 2015) São Paulo-Rio de Janeiro, Brazil . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 43m
Greater Ibadan-Lagos-Accra (West Africa) corridor . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . c.20m According to the UN report, there are now more
people living in cities than living in rural areas. Births time unit deaths
change 132,397,530 per YEAR 56,167,829 +76,229,701 11,033,128 per MONTH
4,680,652 +6,352,475 362,733 per DAY 153,884 +208,848 15,114 per HOUR 6,412
+8,702 252 per MINUTE 107 +145 42 per SECOND 18 +24 WORLD BIRTH & DEATH RATES
[Source: US Census Bureau, 2010  Figures may not add up to totals because of
rounding.]

(IN)DECENT PROPOSALS Proposition for sex % who'd say yes A drink . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 34 Dinner. . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 31 Pair of designer shoes . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . 33 £100 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . 55 £1,000. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .108
£25,000 . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .141 £100,000 . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .150 £1,000,000. . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .297 Mortgage paid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . .131 Year's rent on home . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 91 World Cup
tickets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 54 Do it for free . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . .132 No way . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .435 The 2010 Durex British Sex Survey explored whether Britons
would be prepared to have sex for remuneration and - if so - how much they would
expect to be paid: AGE & MALE WAISTBAND HEIGHT An online survey of 1,000 men,
conducted by Debenhams, found that the height of a man's waistband changes
dramatically as he ages: from the low-slung styles favoured by teenagers to the
'armpit-huggers' worn by pop impresarios. The retailer calculated the average
height of male waistbands for various ages, based on survey responses: Age
influences trousers worn 12 . . . . . . . parents . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . at waist 16. . . . . . . . . trends, American rappers and prison
culture . . . . . . . . . . . . .5" below waist 27-36 . . . . job searching,
impressing prospective in-laws . . . . . . . . . . . .return to waist 39. . . .
. . . . . encroaching middle age . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. last age at natural waist 45. . . . . . . . . weight gain. . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 2"
above waist 57. . . . . . . . . weight gain. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . .all-time high: 5" above waist 65. . . . . . . . .
onset of old-age shrinkage. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . 3" above waist 75. . . . . . . . . old-age shrinkage . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 1" above
waist JOBS OF THE FUTURE Below are some of the 'jobs of 2030' as predicted by
Fast Future, which interviewed a global sample of futurists on behalf of Dept.
for Business, Innovation, & Skills: Job job description Body part maker . . . .
. create living body parts (salespeople and repairmen also needed) Nano-medic. .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . administer sub-atomic devices, inserts, and
procedures 'Pharmer' . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. raise genetically engineered crops and livestock Old age wellness
manager/consultant . . . . . . . . . . . . address health of ageing population
Memory augmentation surgeon . . . .add memory capacity or erase memories as
needed 'New science' ethicist . . . . . . sort out issues raised by cloning,
nanotech, and other fields Space pilot, tour guide, or architect . . . . . . . .
. ferry, guide, and design for space tourists Vertical farmers . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . .grow city-based, hydroponically fed vertical farms
Climate change reversal specialist . . . . . . reduce/reverse climate change in
specific areas Quarantine enforcer . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
enforce quarantine in case of a deadly virus Weather modification police . . .
.control the use of cloud-seeding and other techniques Virtual lawyer . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . resolve legal
disputes that arise online Avatar manager/devotee/virtual teacher . . . . .
employ avatars as teachers in classroomsAlternative vehicle developer . . . . .
. . . . . develop vehicles using new materials and fuels 'Narrowcaster'. . . . .
. . . . . .create and 'broadcast' specialised content for individual needs Waste
data handler. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
provide secure data disposal service Virtual clutter organiser . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . help people organise their electronic lives Time
broker/time bank trader. . manage 'time banks' and other alternative currencies
Social 'networking' worker . . . . . . . . . . . . . . help those marginalised
by social networking Personal brander . . . . . create and manage personal
'brands' through blogs, Twitter, &c. Avatars are representations of a user's
self or alter ego in a computer-generated world, as in Wii games, for example.
'Devotees' are humans that match a teacher's avatar to appropriate students.

SCHOTT'S ANNUAL ASTROMETER Nicolas Sarkozy Mauricio Espinosa Lola the cat John
Bercow Caroline Lucas Bleakley & Chiles Amy Williams Rafael Nadal Serena
Williams Piers Morgan Prince William & Kate Middleton The Stig Diane Abbott
David Laws Tiger Woods Tony Hayward Silvio Berlusconi Prince Charles Gordon
Brown Mary Bale Asif Ali Zardari Sarah Ferguson Benedict XVI Mel Gibson Isner vs
Mahut Don Draper Chris Evans Robert Pattinson Joe McElderry Alex Reid Snookie
Cheryl Cole John Terry Peter Andre Katie Price Wayne Rooney Lindsay Lohan Vernon
Kay Lady Gaga Russell Brand Fabio Capello Nick Griffin John Higgins Lembit Opik
William Hague Kim Jong-il Hamid Karzai Simon Cowell Hillary Clinton David
Beckham Gillian Duffy Frank Lampard Lisbeth Salander Tony Blair Stanley
McChrystal WikiLeaks Vuvuzelas Paul the Octopus Sarah Brown Sarah Palin iPad
James Cameron Michael Gove Katy Perry Kathryn Bigelow Mahmoud Ahmadinejad David
Cameron Barack Obama Jonathan Ross Samantha Cameron Nick Clegg Ed Miliband Peter
Mandelson George Osborne

HATCHED, MATCHED, & DISPATCHED HATCHED Florence Rose Endellion to . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Samantha & David Cameron Kai Wayne to .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . Coleen & Wayne Rooney Lou Sulola to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Heidi
Klum & Seal Nelly May Lois to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. Zoe Ball & Norman 'Fatboy Slim' Cook Ruby Tatiana to . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Carly & Joe Cole Betsy to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Denise Van Outen & Lee Mead Cosima Violet
Vaughn Drummond to . . . . . . . Claudia Schiffer & Matthew Vaughn Ethan Edward
to . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
Dannii Minogue & Kris Smith MATCHED Mark Owen & Emma Ferguson . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . Cawdor, Scottish Highlands Kevin Jonas & Danielle
Deleasa. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Oheka Castle, Long
Island Katie Price & Alex Reid . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . Las Vegas Isla Fisher &
Sacha Baron Cohen . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Paris Calista Flockhart & Harrison Ford . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .Santa
Fe Penélope Cruz & Javier Bardem. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . the Bahamas Miranda Kerr & Orlando Bloom . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
undisclosed  Bloom & Kerr wed in secret in July 2010. Their marriage was
discovered when Kerr withdrew from an Australian department store appearance
because of her honeymoon. Other highly secretive marriages in 2009-10 included
Penélope Cruz & Javier Bardem and Harrison Ford & Calista Flockhart. DISPATCHED
Jamelia & Darren Byfield (married for 17 months). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . .divorcing Avril Lavigne & Deryck Whibley (3 years) . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .divorcing Cheryl & Ashley
Cole (31/2 years) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . divorced Kate Winslet & Sam Mendes (7 years). . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .separated Sandra
Bullock & Jesse James (5 years) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . .divorcing Lenny Henry & Dawn French (25 years). . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .separated Tiger Woods
& Elin Nordegren (6 years). . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . divorced VANITY FAIR 2010 HOLLYWOOD EDITION The 16th annual
Vanity Fair 'Hollywood edition' - with a cover shot by Annie Leibovitz - was
published in February 2010. Film fans noted the absence of any young starlet of
colour in the line-up of the hot young things to watch in 2010: Abbie Cornish
Kristen Stewart cover fold Carey Mulligan Rebecca Hall Amanda Seyfried Mia
Wasikowska Evan Rachel Wood Emma Stone Anna Kendrick FANTASY DUETS A duet
between Lady Gaga and Elvis Presley was the fantasy musical pairing the British
would most like to see, according to a March 2010 poll commissioned by the
dating site Match.com. The nation's favourite fantasy musical couples are below:
(1) Lady Gaga & Elvis Presley  (2) Michael Bublé & Nina Simone (3) Aretha
Franklin & Luther Vandross  (4) Barbra Streisand & Will Young (5) Bonnie Tyler &
Meat Loaf

Star dress designer Cameron Diaz . . . . .gold, beaded, fifties-style
full-length gown . . . . . Oscar de la Renta Kate Winslet . . . . . . .silver,
structured strapless bodice, silk skirt. . . . .Yves Saint Laurent Sandra
Bullock . . . . .gold mermaid dress with embroidered lace bodice . . . . . .
Marchesa Helen Mirren . . . . . .silver/grey gown with beaded chiffon overlay .
. . Badgley Mischka Mo'Nique . . . . . . . . . .royal blue silk, draped
asymmetric bodice. . . . . . . . . . Tadashi Shoji Maggie Gyllenhaal .strapless
column dress in blue printed silk . . . . . . Dries Van Noten Carey Mulligan . .
. .black, strapless, embellished with tiny cutlery, keys, &c. . . . . .Prada
Charlize Theron. . . .two-tone lilac silk with rosettes at the bosom . . . . .
.Christian Dior Vera Farmiga . . . . . . .fuchsia strapless gown with a riot of
large ruffles. . . . . . . . Marchesa Penélope Cruz. . . . . .maroon silk,
strapless, gathered bodice, full skirt. . . . Donna Karan Kathryn Bigelow . .
.pewter silk column dress, embellished bodice . .Yves Saint Laurent Anna
Kendrick. . . . .pale pink, off-the-shoulder, chiffon, full, draped skirt. . . .
Elie Saab OSCAR NIGHT FASHION  2010  Mo'Nique revealed that she wore this shade
of dress and a gardenia in her hair to mirror the attire worn by Hattie McDaniel
in 1940 when she became the first black woman to win an Oscar. THE VATICAN'S
FILM REVIEWS The epic science fiction film Avatar was a 'facile anti-imperialist
and antimilitarist parable which doesn't have the same bite as other more
serious films', according to a review in the Vatican's semi-official newspaper
L'Osservatore Romano in January 2010. L'Osservatore Romano has published a
variety of film reviews over the last few years, and although the Church
cautions that the write-ups don't carry the weight of Papal edict, they do
provide a fascinating insight into the intersection of the Vatican City and
Hollywood. Selections from some recent reviews are below: Harry Potter & the
Half-Blood Prince draws a 'clear line of demarcation between good and evil,
making clear that good is right' Angels & Demons offers 'harmless entertainment,
which hardly affects the genius and mystery of Christianity' The Da Vinci Code
contains 'allegories and suggestive symbols of a third-rate neo-medievalism' The
Golden Compass viewers will find the movie 'devoid of any particular emotion
apart from a great chill' The Simpsons (TV show) 'realistic and intelligent
writing - a mirror of the indifference and the need that modern man feels toward
faith'  This positive review came as a surprise, since it followed a 2008
L'Osservatore Romano article attacking Harry Potter as the 'wrong kind of hero'.
Furthermore, in 2003 then-Cardinal Joseph Ratzinger (now Pope Benedict XVI)
wrote a letter encouraging a critic of the Harry Potter books, saying: 'It is
good that you explain the facts of Harry Potter - because this is a subtle
seduction, which has deeply unnoticed and direct effects in undermining the soul
of Christianity'.

Below are the 'most fanciable' members of parliament, according to Sky News's
political editor Adam Boulton, who publishes a list on his blog each Valentine's
Day:  MP (age) party 1 . . Lynne Featherstone (58) . . . . . . . . LD 2 . .
Caroline Flint (48). . . . . . . . . . . . . . LAB 3 . . Julie Kirkbride (49) .
. . . . . . . . . . . CON 4 . . Adam Afriyie (44) . . . . . . . . . . . . . CON
5 . . Julia Goldsworthy (31) . . . . . . . . . . LD 5 . . Nick Clegg (43). . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . LD 7 . . Jeremy Hunt (43). . . . . . . . . . . . . .
CON 7 . . Andy Burnham (40) . . . . . . . . . . . . LAB 9 . . Theresa May (53) .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . CON 10. Ed Vaizey (41) . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. CON 'For a woman who stopped counting her age several decades ago, I am very
flattered by the compliment.' TOP TEN MOST FANCIABLE MPS  2010   Osborne
standing on the left hand side of the escalator. Oh George, when will you learn?
[230310] Former Deputy PM & MP for Hull East John Prescott enjoying civilian
life in the Humberside sunshine. [140510] MP for Spelthorne, Kwasi Kwarteng
ordering two sandwiches, then goes to sit on his own. [140610] Rare spotting
indeed! Gordon Brown seen rushing through Portcullis House. [040710] The Hain in
Spain. [120810] Michael Gove cycling through Westminster on a Boris bike.
[020910] On 12 July 2010, the site tweeted: So according to the Sunday Times MPs
want EyeSpyers banned. How? We are too many and everywhere.   'COALITION SPEAK'
In August 2010, the Daily Mail reported that the Dept for Education had issued a
note on the 'language of the new Government', to replace New Labour's jargon:
Old jargon new jargon Delivery model. . . . . getting things done Safeguarding .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . predictability Targets & outcomes . . . results &
impact State . . . . . . . . . . . . . (big/stronger) society State control. . .
. . . . . social responsibility Stakeholders. . . . . . people, practitioners,
volunteers, professional organisations

NUMBER OF SEXUAL PARTNERS IN PAST YEAR Age zero partners one two or three four %
16-24 31 16 44 60 17 19 8 5 25-29 7 5 71 86 11 7 10 2 30-34 4 5 80 89 12 6 4 1
35-39 10 8 79 86 9 5 2 1 40-44 5 8 82 89 10 3 3 0 45-49 7 14 89 84 3 2 1 0 50-69
16 - 81 - 3 1 1 - TOTAL 14 10 74 80 8 8 4 2 Source: ONS. Data are 2008/9, Great
Britain only  Data for women 50 were not collected.

SCI, TECH, NET SIGNIFICA UK HOUSE PRICE INDICATORS Below are data for the
quarterly annual percentage change in UK house prices: Charted below are the
monthly changes in a 3-year fixed-rate mortgage, since 1997: Charted below are
Halifax data for average national house prices, average national earnings, and
(in parentheses) the price-to-earnings ratio, for 1997-2009: £ 20,000 40,000
60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000 140,000 160,000 180,000 200,000 1997 '98 '99 '00
'01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09 '10 average national earnings average house
prices Average house prices, earnings, & ratio (316) (581) (473) [Halifax] -20
-15 -10 -5 % 5 10 15 20 25 30 1997 '98 '99 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08
'09 '10 [Halifax] % 2 4 6 8 1997 '98 '99 '00 '01 '02 '03 '04 '05 '06 '07 '08 '09
'10 Monthly interest rate 3-year (75% LTV) fixed-rate mortgage [Bank of England]
BRITAIN'S HIGH STREETS Since 1997, Britain has lost 7,500 post offices, 3,460
pubs and 1,310 public toilets but gained 1,270 betting shops and 276 lap-dancing
clubs. The data comes from the Valuation Office Agency who, in February 2010,
carried out a survey of British services and businesses since 1997 in order to
revalue business rates. The businesses and services showing the greatest
increase and most significant falls are below: Greatest increase 1997 2010  %
Lap-dancing clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 24. . . . . . .
. . . 300. . . . . . . . .+276 . . . . . . +1,150 Drive-through restaurants . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . 990. . . . . . . .1,510. . . . . . . . .+520 . . . . . .
. . . .+53 Large supermarkets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .1,420. . . .
. . . .2,120. . . . . . . . .+700 . . . . . . . . . .+49 Betting shops. . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .3,270. . . . . . . .4,540. . . . . .
.+1,270 . . . . . . . . . .+39 Casinos . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . 110. . . . . . . . . . 140. . . . . . . . . . +30 . .
. . . . . . . .+27 Nightclubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . .1,050. . . . . . . .1,320. . . . . . . . .+270 . . . . . . . . . .+26
Hypermarkets (>27,000 sq. ft). . . . . . . .1,420. . . . . . . .1,780. . . . . .
. . .+360 . . . . . . . . . .+25 Charity shops . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . .5,000. . . . . . . .6,500. . . . . . .+1,500 . . . . . . . . .
.+20 Wine bars . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
850. . . . . . . . . . 990. . . . . . . . .+140 . . . . . . . . . .+16 Greatest
decrease Sport & social clubs . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 21,130. . . . . .
. .9,450. . . . . -11,680 . . . . . . . . . .-55 Petrol stations . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 11,870. . . . . . . .5,650. . . . . . .-6,220 . .
. . . . . . . .-52 Livestock markets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. 180. . . . . . . . . . 110. . . . . . . . . . -70 . . . . . . . . . .-39 Post
offices . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 19,000. . . . . .
11,500. . . . . . .-7,500 . . . . . . . . . .-39 Hospitals and clinics. . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . .1,840. . . . . . . .1,260. . . . . . . . .-580 . . . .
. . . . . .-32 Bingo halls . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . 650. . . . . . . . . . 460. . . . . . . . .-190 . . . . . . . . . .-29
Public toilets . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .5,610. . . . .
. . .4,300. . . . . . .-1,310 . . . . . . . . . .-23 Swimming pools . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 720. . . . . . . . . . 570. . . . . . . .
.-150 . . . . . . . . . .-21 Schools . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . 23,850. . . . . . 21,470. . . . . . .-2,380 . . . . . . . . .
.-10 Police stations . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . .2,000. . .
. . . . .1,840. . . . . . . . .-160 . . . . . . . . . . . -8 Pubs . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . . 49,520. . . . . . 46,060. .
. . . . .-3,460 . . . . . . . . . . . -7 Public libraries . . . . . . . . . . .
. . . . . . . . . . . . .3,066. . . . . . . .2,870. . . . . . . . .-196 . . . .
. . . . . . . -`6

LOAD-DATE: December 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Freezing weather brings out the best in 4x4s;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 153 words


FOLLOWING the chaos and misery caused by the severe weather of the past 10 days,
and despite the best efforts of the Scottish parliamentary resilience committee,
one can only go so far as to imagine when this or any other government will
relax the demonisation of 4x4 vehicles.

While many drivers of these so-called Chelsea Tractors do not enhance their
reputation by the standard of driving or consideration which is sadly missing
from many aspects of the modern driving experience, I can confirm that here in
rural Scotland, many four-wheeldrive exponents have helped the aged, infirm and
just the ordinary working guy by ensuring that essential supplies of bread, milk
and so on have been delivered.

I think it's time for a rethink on the road tax levels for these cars. What may
seem to be a status symbol on the school run in London is an essential means of
transportation in Scotland.

Brian Goldie, UKIP Falkirk/Central

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 10, 2010 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Freezing weather brings out the best in 4x4s;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 34

LENGTH: 153  words


FOLLOWING the chaos and misery caused by the severe weather of the past 10 days,
and despite the best efforts of the Scottish parliamentary resilience committee,
one can only go so far as to imagine when this or any other government will
relax the demonisation of 4x4 vehicles.

While many drivers of these so-called Chelsea Tractors do not enhance their
reputation by the standard of driving or consideration which is sadly missing
from many aspects of the modern driving experience, I can confirm that here in
rural Scotland, many four-wheeldrive exponents have helped the aged, infirm and
just the ordinary working guy by ensuring that essential supplies of bread, milk
and so on have been delivered.

I think it's time for a rethink on the road tax levels for these cars.

What may seem to be a status symbol on the school run in London is an essential
means of transportation in Scotland.

Brian Goldie, UKIP Falkirk/Central

LOAD-DATE: December 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 10, 2010 Friday 11:12 AM GMT

Come the election, pro-Coalition Lib Dems will demand an electoral pact from the
Tories

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1145 words


Despite the violence in the streets, and the arguments in Parliament, the
Coalition emerged from the first stage of the student fees affair with a
majority of21, although there is still the House of Lords to be faced next week.

Some six weeks ago,I suggested on the Critical Reaction website that each time
the LibDemCon Coalition overcame a potential split between the Tories and their
Lib Dem partners, the stronger it would become and the more likely to hold
together.On balance, it looked to me that the stress which would grow was that
between the coalitionist Lib Dem Ministers, led by Clegg, and the remainder of
the Lib Dem ParliamentaryParty.

There is not much in the Coalition for the backbench Lib Dems.The Ministers have
the comfort of their offices and the enhanced sense of importance that goes with
it.The backbenchers face the anger of their Labour-leaning activists and voters,
without getting much in return. Of course some event or another could compel the
Lib Dem Ministers to leave the Coalition, but the longer they stay, the less
credit they would get for resigning. Indeed, the less likely it will be that,
having swallowed so much, they would finally gag on anything at all likely to be
served up at the Cabinet table.

More and more, as the months go by, the Lib Dems' thoughts will turn to the next
election in 2015.Of course it may be that by then the economy will be growing,
unemployment falling, the troops home from Afghanistan, the reforms to welfare,
schools and the NHS showing dividends and gaining public support.I rather doubt
ifit will be that good by then. Although I think there will have been progress
on all those fronts, some of it will anger rather than please Lib Dem voters.

If I am right, then the pro-Coalition Lib Dems will expect it to be payback
time.And the payback they will need is some sort of pact to get them an easy
ride back to the Commons.As most of the rest of theirbackbench colleagues are
likely to lose their seats unless they do deals with the Labour Party, Clegg and
his fellow Ministers would have become de facto, if not de jure, members of the
Conservative Party and the Lib Dem Party would virtually cease to exist.

It is not a prospect that I find particularly attractive, which is why I would
have preferred Cameron to have led a minority Conservative administration.It
would be almost certain to leave the Conservative Party bogged down on the
middle ground, refusing to fight on the common ground across the political
spectrum of immigration control, and resistance tocolonisation by the European
Republic.That would leave many more Conservative electors angry, perhaps angry
enough to begin to form an effective UKIP electoral force.

Certainly the Coalition has brought benefits in getting a sensible budget and
overduewelfare reform. Now we wait to see the longer-term costs.

...

Well, there were some quite strong views expressed under my previous blog post
on the antics of the Lib Dems, and some of those most strongly expressed I felt
were not very well reasoned.

I thought that jose maria was in the running for a prize of some kind for the
remark that "communists and liberals do not lie about what they stand for".Try
telling those rioting students that.Or the Russians, Chechnyans, Poles, Czechs,
Slovaks, Latvians, Lithuanians... or even the poor Cubans.Then there was that
description of me as "an enemy asset". I suppose that depends on who one regards
as the enemy. he infidel wanted me kicked out of the Conservative Party, but
since he is (I think) not a Conservative, what the hell is that to do with him?I
noticed that micheltj declared that the Tories would never win on a Tebbit
manifesto. Perhaps he had forgotten thatin the1980s we did.Then the happily
named dick turnip proclaimed that I am not a Conservative, which must come as a
surprise to those who voted for my and the Party of which I was Chairman.
Rantingnat went on a rant, whilst junius, poor chap, was deleted. Not content
with that, dickturnip, with others,went on a fantasy about Hitler's National
Socialists being Right-wingers. Yes, yes,I know they killed a lot of communists,
but there is nothing quite like the hatred ofone Left-wing party splinter
groupfor another of almost the very same ilk.As kergoff, who knows from personal
experience about the Nazis, asked, what does turnip know about 1930s Germany?Out
of the kindness of my heart, I will explain as I have done many times before
that theboth Left- and Right-wing parties can be racist or nationalist.
Happilly, bluepeter and kergofput dickturnip right. The distinction between
Left- and Right-wing policieslies in whether theyadvocatea big state served by
the people, ora limited state to serve the people.Try tothink about it.

Not that everyone was so personally critical and I should thankchalkwhite and
kergoff for their offer of support at the barricades, not to mention Henry
Tudor, bersher, pogleswoodsman, andrewbartlett, milroy66, captaindesmond,
loggyand others. Particularly I am grateful to mjg for mentioning the great
support I enjoyed from the officials who worked with me in the Departments in
which I served. I could not have been better servedby my officials, including by
those who I knew had doubts or even disagreements about some of my policies.

Londonistan agreed that any UK Bill of Rights would be inferior to European
legislation and judges and it was interesting that bersher was concerned about
judicial imperialism even in the USA.When merchantman asked "Where is St
George?", alhamilton's answer that he had been nobbled by Elfin Safety rang all
too true. It was markmmarn who said he was a one-time son of Thatcher but had
grown up, but to what?Personally, I have just grown old!

Sadly, I have to disappoint sparkflash.I am not fabian solutions: I do not think
I could be such a satirist however hard I tried.

I have written above about the Coalition following the vote on student fees, so
I hope he understands I have no wish to "destroy" the Coalition, although I
share simon coulter's views on centrist politics. What is more, I agree with
swissie that the important thing is the Budget.

Antoncheckout asked why I referred to "poor" Mr Hancock. It was in the sense of
being inadequate, of low quality andlacking in substance.

Urban Michael Savage asked how did my friends and I gain control of the Party.
Sheer hard grassroots work is the answer. I became chairman of a village branch
which gave me a seat on the Association Executive. I collected subs, made
members, canvassed in local elections, helped Cecil Parkinson become Chairman of
the Association, became Chairman of the political committee and so on ad
infinitum. And I had a lot of luck.

Finally, I hope that bersher has some deserved luck with his paper on the reform
of industrial relations law. I am rather proud that over the past 30 years it
has stood the test of time.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Flood of support for EU crusade

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 469 words


MORE than 100,000 people have signed up to the Daily Express's crusade for
Britain to quit the European Union, it can be revealed today.

The newspaper has received a deluge of our special crusade coupons calling on
David Cameron's Government to organise an orderly withdrawal from the EU.

Support has hit six figures in just over a week since the historic crusade was
launched. It is on course to become the fastest growing campaign in newspaper
history.

Last night the colossal surge of support was being viewed as a stark warning to
Brussels that Britain has had enough of meddling and an ever-growing tax burden.

Tory MP Philip Davies, a member of the Better Off Out group of MPs, said: "This
is an absolutely amazing response. It reveals the pent up frustration among the
public that none of the mainstream political parties are speaking up for what
they believe in."

CRUSADE OUT EU UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson said: "This is a huge
level of support from the great British public to the greatest British
newspaper. The strength of feeling shown by Daily Express readers reflects the
growing support across the country for withdrawal."

A survey by pollsters Angus Reid earlier this week showed that 48 per cent of
voters asked want Britain freed from the yoke of Brussels while 59 per cent
believe EU membership has damaged the UK.

GET US OUT OF THE EU Prime Minister And support among Daily Express readers for
withdrawal from the EU is overwhelming, with 99 per cent of the tens of
thousands of callers who rang this newspaper's exclusive phone poll backing an
exit for Britain.

Daily Express is crusading to end Britain's membership of the Union. I call on
the Government to arrange for an orderly of the United Kingdom from the EU
either by means of an referendum or directly so that the British people are once
placed in charge of their own political destiny."

Reader Graham Anthony, 39, a music studio manager from Glastonbury, Somerset,
said: "We've got our own pound, our own currency. We don't need to be in, half
of Europe is falling apart at the moment."

Ina Lewis, a 45-year-old civil servant from Liverpool, said: "We're better
looking after our own interests. Making our own decisions over our affairs would
be better."

OPINION: PAGE 12

GET US OUT OF THE EU

To the Prime Minister

"The Daily Express is crusading to end Britain's membership of the European
Union. I call on the Government to arrange for an orderly withdrawal of the
United Kingdom from the EU either by means of an enabling referendum or directly
so that the British people are once again placed in charge of their own
political destiny."

Signed:

Name:

Address:

Postcode:

We will pass on your voucher to No 10 Downing Street Please complete and send
to: GET US OUT OF EUROPE, News Desk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street,
London EC3R 6EN

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: More sacks of mail arrive at the Daily Express
News Desk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street, London EC3R 6EN A selection of
the huge pile of letters containing our Daily Express crusade coupons calling on
the Government to take the UK out of Europe
Pictures: TIM CLARKE, MIKE PARTRIDGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Crackers banned? You're pulling our leg

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 303 words


MEDDLING Eurocrats were last night blamed for imposing a diktat which could see
UK shop cashiers jailed for selling Christmas crackers to under-16s.

The new draconian legislation means it is illegal for stores to sell the
harmless festive treat to children because they are deemed category one
fireworks.

Punishments include a £5,000 fine for stores that breach the rules, while
checkout staff may face six months imprisonment.

The rule was already in place under British laws dating back to 1875, but they
were rarely enforced due to common sense.

But retailers are on their guard after a European directive on pyrotechnic
safety rules was rubber-stamped in August.

The policy adopted by many businesses means shops must ask for ID when selling
age-limited items to anyone who looks under 25, resulting in cashiers
challenging people in their mid-20s trying to buy crackers.

Retailers yesterday asked for trading standards officers to be called off from
enforcing the rules in the Christmas run-up.

And David Cameron vowed to scrap the "absurd" measures.

Mr Cameron was asked to "put a firework up their health and safety legislation"
by Tory MP Mike Ellis during Prime Minister's questions. The PM responded: "That
would give me enormous pleasure and I look forward to doing so."

Ukip MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "This is just another example OF THE EU of the
moronic British application of nannying EU rules."

And Jane Bevis, of the British Retail Consortium, said: "The Government has
promised to ease up on regulations on businesses but this one seems to have
slipped through the net."

Meanwhile, Roger Burnley, Sainsbury's retail and logistics director, said:
"We're sure that when we start asking customers to prove their age, they will
think we've gone crackers, so we'd like to take this opportunity to apologise in
advance."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

100,000 say: Get us out of EU

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 280 words


MORE than 100,000 people have signed up to the Daily Express's campaign for
Britain to quit the European Union.

The newspaper has received a deluge of our special campaign coupons calling on
David Cameron's Government to organise an orderly withdrawal from the EU.
Support has hit six figures in just over a week.

Tory MP Philip Davies, of the Better Off Out group of MPs, said: "This is an
amazing response. It reveals the pent-up frustration among the public that none
of the mainstream political parties speak up for what they believe in."

Overwhelming

UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson said: "This is a huge level of support
from the great British public to the greatest British newspaper."

A survey by pollsters Angus Reid earlier this week showed that 48 per cent of
voters asked want Britain freed from the yoke of Brussels while 59 per cent
believe EU membership has damaged the UK. And support among Daily Express
readers for withdrawal from the EU is overwhelming, with 99 per cent of the tens
of thousands of callers who rang this newspaper's exclusive phone poll backing
an exit for Britain.

OPINION: PAGE 12

GET US OUT OF THE EU

To the Prime Minister "The Daily Express is crusading to end Britain's
membership of the European Union. I call on the Government to arrange for an
orderly withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU either by means of an
enabling referendum or directly so that the British people are once again placed
in charge of their own political destiny."

Signed:

Name:

Address:

Postcode:

We will pass on your voucher to No 10 Downing Street Please complete and send
to: GET US OUT OF EUROPE, News Desk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street,
London EC3R 6EN

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: More sacks of mail arrive at the Daily Express
A selection of the huge pile of letters containing our campaign vouchers
Pictures: TIM CLARKE, MIKE PARTRIDGE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Flood of support for EU crusade

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 03

LENGTH: 317  words


MORE than 100,000 people have signed up to the Daily Express's crusade for
Britain to quit the European Union, it can be revealed today.

The newspaper has received a deluge of our special crusade coupons calling on
David Cameron's Government to organise an orderly withdrawal from the EU.

Support has hit six figures in just over a week since the historic crusade was
launched. It is on course to become the fastest growing campaign in newspaper
history.

Last night the colossal surge of support was being viewed as a stark warning to
Brussels that Britain has had enough of meddling and an ever-growing tax burden.

Tory MP Philip Davies, a member of the Better Off Out group of MPs, said: "This
is an absolutely amazing response. It reveals the pent up frustration among the
public that none of the mainstream political parties are speaking up for what
they believe in."

UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson said: "This is a huge level of support
from the great British public to the greatest British newspaper. The strength of
feeling shown by Daily Express readers reflects the growing support across the
country for withdrawal."

A survey by pollsters Angus Reid earlier this week showed that 48 per cent of
voters asked want Britain freed from the yoke of Brussels while 59 per cent
believe EU membership has damaged the UK.

And support among Daily Express readers for withdrawal from the EU is
overwhelming, with 99 per cent of the tens of thousands of callers who rang this
newspaper's exclusive phone poll backing an exit for Britain.

Reader Graham Anthony, 39, a music studio manager from Glastonbury, Somerset,
said: "We've got our own pound, our own currency. We don't need to be in, half
of Europe is falling apart at the moment."

Ina Lewis, a 45-year-old civil servant from Liverpool, said: "We're better
looking after our own interests. Making our own decisions over our affairs would
be better."

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A selection of the huge pile of letters containing our Daily Express
crusade coupons calling on the Government to take the UK out of Europe
More sacks of mail arrive at the Daily Express

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 9, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

100,000 say: Get us out of EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 11

LENGTH: 182  words


MORE than 100,000 people have signed up to the Daily Express's campaign for
Britain to quit the European Union .

The newspaper has received a deluge of our special campaign coupons calling on
David Cameron's Government to organise an orderly withdrawal from the EU.
Support has hit six figures in just over a week.

Tory MP Philip Davies, of the Better Off Out group of MPs, said: "This is an
amazing response. It reveals the pent-up frustration among the public that none
of the mainstream political parties speak up for what they believe in."

UK Independence Party peer Lord Pearson said: "This is a huge level of support
from the great British public to the greatest British newspaper."

A survey by pollsters Angus Reid earlier this week showed that 48 per cent of
voters asked want Britain freed from the yoke of Brussels while 59 per cent
believe EU membership has damaged the UK. And support among Daily Express
readers for withdrawal from the EU is overwhelming, with 99 per cent of the tens
of thousands of callers who rang this newspaper's exclusive phone poll backing
an exit for Britain.

LOAD-DATE: December 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A selection of the huge pile of letters containing our campaign
vouchers
More sacks of mail arrive at the Daily Express

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     December 8, 2010 Wednesday 8:10 AM GMT

CCHQ betrays Tory members by counting Better Off Out membership as a skeleton in
the cupboard

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 247 words


I can think of lots of character flaws that would make someone unsuitable to be
a Tory MP, but wanting to leave the EU shouldn't be one of them. After all, a
poll this week showed that 59 per cent of the public believe that the EU has
been bad for Britain.

That percentage is surely much higher among Tory members. Indeed, one Tory
politician, who was on David Cameron's A-List of priority candidates before the
last election, told me that his chances of winning over a constituency
association would increase dramatically if he joined the Better Off Out
campaign, but that Conservative Campaign Headquarters would blacklist him if he
did that.

Another prospective Tory candidate told me that he has asked Better Off Out if
he could be placed on a list of "secret" members, because - although he is a
committed withdrawalist - the Conservative leadership have made clear that this
would cause his political career to be terminated.

The counterproductive nature of this policy was particularly stark when the
Conservatives, under Michael Howard's leadership, decided that UKIP's Nigel
Farage was becoming a threat and needed poaching. According to Farage's
autobigography, the party dangled the safe Tory seat of Tunbridge Wells, and he
was told that he could advocate Euroscepticism as much as he liked - just so
long as he never mentioned withdrawal. Needless to say, he decided that Michael
Howard "could go hang" - and the Tories' opportunity to take out UKIP's prize
asset was wasted.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 7, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Most agree, being in the EU has harmed Britain

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 485 words


NEARLY two thirds of Britons believe our country has been damaged by membership
of the european Union, an opinion poll revealed last night.

Some 59 per cent of voters said Brussels has had a "negative" impact on the UK.

And for the first time in nearly four decades, almost half of them think we
should quit the EU.

Public opposition to the EU appears to be hardening after billions of taxpayers'
money was poured into bail-outs for failing euro-zone economies.

The evidence of growing disillusionment with Brussels was revealed in a survey
of more than 2,000 voters across the country by pollsters angus reid.

It follows the launch of the Daily express campaign to get Britain out of the
EU.

Last night, eurosceptic campaigners seized on the findings as confirmation that
the time has come for the UK to quit.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "this is very encouraging. It shows there is a
huge number of people in the country who feel really strongly about this.

"Only the Daily express and a few Mps at Westminster are speaking up for them.
this is why the Daily express needs to carry on with its crusade against Britain
staying in the EU.

"This poll shows that wanting to leave the EU is no longer a fringe issue but
has reached the mainstream of political opinion in this country."

The poll found 30 per cent thought EU membership had been "very negative" for
the UK while another 29 per cent said it had been "moderately negative".

Even more significant was the growing support among voters for withdrawal.

Asked how they would vote if a referendum on EU membership was held in Britain,
48 per cent said they would vote against staying in the EU.

In June, the figure was 42 per cent, indicating support for withdrawal has
grown. Only 27 per cent now want to stay in the EU.

Voters strongly oppose scrapping the pound. eighty per cent said they would vote
No in a referendum on whether Britain should join the euro, with just eight per
cent in favour. UK Independence party leader Nigel Farage, said: "this poll
shows what people have known for a long time, but politicians refuse to
acknowledge: EU membership is damaging our country.

"According to the three questions asked by the pollsters the answers are: we
don't like it, we don't want it and we want to leave. Will our political class
finally listen?"

OPINION: PAGE 12

GET US OUT OF THE EU

To the Prime Minister "The Daily Express is crusading to end Britain's
membership of the European Union. I call on the Government to arrange for an
orderly withdrawal of the United Kingdom from the EU either by means of an
enabling referendum or directly so that the British people are once again placed
in charge of their own political destiny."

We will pass on your voucher to No 10 Downing Street Please complete and send
to: GET US OUT OF EUROPE, News Desk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street,
London EC3R 6EN

Signed: Name: Address: Postcode:GET US OUT OF EUROPE C A M PA I G N

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 7, 2010 Tuesday
                                Scottish Edition

Most agree, being in the EU has harmed Britain

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 382  words


NEARLY two thirds of Britons believe our country has been damaged by membership
of the European Union, an opinion poll revealed last night.

Some 59 per cent of voters said Brussels has had a "negative" impact on the UK.

And for the first time in nearly four decades, almost half of them think we
should quit the EU.

Public opposition to the EU appears to be hardening after billions of taxpayers'
money was poured into bail-outs for failing euro-zone economies.

The evidence of growing disillusionment with Brussels was revealed in a survey
of more than 2,000 voters across the country by pollsters Angus Reid.

It follows the launch of the Daily Express campaign to get Britain out of the
EU.

Last night, Eurosceptic campaigners seized on the findings as confirmation that
the time has come for the UK to quit.

Tory MP Douglas Carswell said: "This is very encouraging.

It shows there is a huge number of people in the country who feel really
strongly about this.

"Only the Daily Express and a few MPs at Westminster are speaking up for them.
This is why the Daily Express needs to carry on with its crusade against Britain
staying in the EU.

"This poll shows that wanting to leave the EU is no longer a fringe issue but
has reached the mainstream of political opinion in this country."

The poll found 30 per cent thought EU membership had been "very negative" for
the UK while another 29 per cent said it had been "moderately negative".

Even more significant was the growing support among voters for withdrawal.

Asked how they would vote if a referendum on EU membership was held in Britain,
48 per cent said they would vote against staying in the EU.

In June, the figure was 42 per cent, indicating support for withdrawal has
grown. Only 27 per cent now want to stay in the EU.

Voters strongly oppose scrapping the pound. Eighty per cent said they would vote
No in a referendum on whether Britain should join the euro, with just eight per
cent in favour. UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage, said: "This poll
shows what people have known for a long time, but politicians refuse to
acknowledge: EU membership is damaging our country.

"According to the three questions asked by the pollsters the answers are: we
don't like it, we don't want it and we want to leave. Will our political class
finally listen?"

LOAD-DATE: December 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FURY AT EU'S GRAVY TRAIN;
Diplomats living the high life £188k pay 15 weeks holiday Britons foot bill for
EU's envoys to soak up the sun

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 828 words


LAVISH pay and perks enjoyed by the EU's army of diplomats were laid bare
yesterday, provoking widespread condemnation. The generous salaries, allowances
and time off will add to the anger over appalling waste at the heart of the
European Union.

With salaries up to £188,000 a year, generous holidays rising to 15 weeks a
year, including 18 bank holidays, and annual bonuses of up to 50 per cent of
wages on offer, critics savaged the EU for its "arrogance".

And the extraordinary salaries and holidays for its staff will add weight to the
Daily Express crusade to withdraw the UK from the EU.

Europe's new foreign ministry, the European External Action Service, was
formally launched behind closed doors last week in a low-key ceremony designed
to keep it out of the headlines. The body was established under the Lisbon
Treaty and is headed by British Labour peer Baroness Ashton.

Critics have claimed it will duplicate and undermine work already being done
around the world by member states' own diplomats and is yet another EU
power-grab.

Aides to Lady Ashton said she deliberately kept last week's Brussels launch
"humble" out of respect for austerity cuts being made in EU member states.

CRUSADE GET US OUT OF THE EU But yesterday it emerged that the 136 officials who
flew in to mark the occasion, only 10 of whom are British and some of whom are
stationed in exotic locations, are unlikely to be tightening their own belts.

Analysis revealed they are on salaries of between £128,000 and £188,000 a year.

But they can boost that by as much as 50 per cent thanks to a string of
allowances ranging from "living conditions'' payments depending on the toughness
of the post, to grants for living away from home and daily subsistence.

Along with other EU offi-cials, there are payments for the birth or adoption of
a child, travel expenses which can even include having their own cars taken from
Europe to the post and back. Annual leave can be as much as 60 days including 18
bank holidays, although offi-cials said yesterday that only the most experienced
diplomat, in the most difficult and remote posting, would qualify.

The average annual leave was between around 30 and 40 days plus bank holidays.

Marta Andreasen, a British UKIP MEP, condemned the inflated packages, saying:
"At a time when the whole of Europe is struggling with a severe crisis it is
difficult to justify such incredible perks for people who probably spend much of
their time sunbathing."

She added: "This is all down to EU arrogance, thinking it can do this job better
than individual nations."

Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think-tank, said last night: "While
there's nothing wrong with countries pooling resources, the EU's foreign policy
ambitions have so far been marred by in-fighting, contradictory interests and
confusion about who's actually in charge.

"It's unclear what value these costly EU embassies are actually adding to
Britain's own diplomatic efforts.

"The EU's diplomatic corps risks becoming an expensive flag-waving exercise
funded by taxpayers, drawing funds away from nation.al defence and foreign
affairs budgets at a time when every penny counts."

Emma Boon, campaigner director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The EU foreign
service is another unbelievable example of the Europe gravy train. With whopping
salaries, long holidays and a lavish lifestyle funded in part by British
taxpayers, these diplomats are on Easy Street.

"With pressures on the public finances and necessary spending cuts at home,
ordinary families in the UK should not be expected to pay for this sort of
thing.

The EU foreign ministry is expected to cost about £400million to run next year,
of which £54milion will come from British taxpayers, just as the Foreign Office
in London faces 17 per cent cuts to save £300million.

BATTLE TO HALT MUMS' PAY BOOST

PROPOSALS by the European Parliament to extend maternity leave on full pay to 20
weeks, will be contested by the Government today because the move would lead to
"unacceptable" costs.

Employment Relations Minister Ed Davey will tell a meeting in Brussels it would
be "socially regressive".

The UK's current maternity entitlements allow women to take up to 52 weeks
maternity leave, of which up to 39 weeks are paid. However, at the moment,
maternity pay for the majority of the 39 paid weeks is capped at the statutory
rate of £124.88 per week.

Britain maintains that those on the lowest incomes receive the highest
proportion of their usual pay under the current system.

Women on an annual salary of £10,000 receive 69 per cent, while those on £30,000
receive 32 per cent. At £60,000 it falls to 23 per cent .

Ministers have estimated that the EU proposals would cost the UK more than
£2billion a year.

Q Should we pay for EU fat cats to live high life?

YES: 0901 030 8338 NO: 0901 030 8339 Yes text DXMONYES to 80088 No text DXMONNO
to 80088 Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.
Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               64 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

FURY AT EU'S GRAVY TRAIN;
. Diplomats living life of luxury . £188k pay. 15 weeks holiday

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 692 words


LAVISH pay and perks enjoyed by the EU's army of diplomats were laid bare
yesterday, provoking widespread condemnation. The generous salaries, allowances
and time off will add to the anger over appalling waste at the heart of the
European Union.

With salaries up to £188,000 a year, generous holidays rising to 15 weeks a
year, including 18 bank holidays, and annual bonuses of up to 50 per cent of
wages on offer, critics savaged the EU for its "arrogance".

And the extraordinary salaries and holidays for its staff will add weight to the
Daily Express campaign to withdraw the UK from the EU.

Europe's new foreign ministry, the European External Action Service, was
formally launched behind closed doors last week in a low-key ceremony designed
to keep it out of the headlines. The body was established under the Lisbon
Treaty and is headed by British Labour peer Baroness Ashton.

C A M PA I G N GET US OUT Critics have claimed it will duplicate and undermine
work already being done around the world by member states' own diplomats and is
yet another EU power-grab.

OF EUROPE Aides to Lady Ashton said she deliberately kept last week's Brussels
launch "humble" out of respect for austerity cuts being made in EU member
states.

But yesterday it emerged that the 136 officials who flew in to mark the
occasion, only 10 of whom are British and some of whom are stationed in exotic
locations, are unlikely to be tightening their own belts.

Analysis revealed they are on salaries of between £128,000 and £188,000 a year.

But they can boost that by as much as 50 per cent thanks to a string of
allowances ranging from "living conditions'' payments depending on the toughness
of the post, to grants for living away from home and daily subsistence.

Along with other EU offi-cials, there are payments for the birth or adoption of
a child, travel expenses which can even include having their own cars taken from
Europe to the post and back. Annual leave can be as much as 60 days including 18
bank holidays, although offi-cials said yesterday that only the most experienced
diplomat, in the most difficult and remote posting, would qualify. The average
annual leave was between around 30 and 40 days plus bank holidays.

Marta Andreasen, a British UKIP MEP, condemned the inflated packages, saying:
"At a time when the whole of Europe is struggling with a severe crisis it is
difficult to justify such incredible perks for people who probably spend much of
their time sunbathing."

She added: "This is all down to EU arrogance, thinking it can do this job better
than individual nations."

Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think-tank, said last night: "While
there's nothing wrong with countries pooling resources, the EU's foreign policy
ambitions have so far been marred by in-fighting, contradictory interests and
confusion about who's actually in charge.

"It's unclear what value these costly EU embassies are actually adding to
Britain's own diplomatic efforts.

"The EU's diplomatic corps risks becoming an expensive flag-waving exercise
funded by taxpayers, drawing funds away from nation.al defence and foreign
affairs budgets at a time when every penny counts."

Emma Boon, campaigner director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The EU foreign
service is another unbelievable example of the Europe gravy train. With whopping
salaries, long holidays and a lavish lifestyle funded in part by British
taxpayers, these diplomats are on Easy Street.

"With pressures on the public finances and necessary spending cuts at home,
ordinary families in the UK should not be expected to pay for this sort of
thing.

The EU foreign ministry is expected to cost about £400million to run next year,
of which £54milion will come from British taxpayers, just as the Foreign Office
in London faces 17 per cent cuts to save £300million.

q should we pay for eu fat cats to live high life? YEs: 0901 030 8338 NO: 0901
030 8339 Yes text DXMONYEs to 80088 No text DXMONNO to 80088 Calls cost 25p from
a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates C A M PA I G N GET US OUT OF EUROPE
FROM PAGE ONE to keep it out of the The body was under the Lisbon

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               65 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            December 6, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FURY AT EU 'S GRAVY TRAIN

BYLINE: By Alison Little Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 638  words


Diplomats living the high life

15 weeks holiday

LAVISH pay and perks enjoyed b y the EU's army of diplomats w ere laid bare
yesterday, provoking widespread condemnation.

The generous salaries, allowances and time off will add to the anger over
appalling waste at the heart of the European Union.

With salaries up to GBP 188,000 a year, generous holidays rising to 15 weeks a
year, including 18 bank holidays, and annual bonuses of up to 50 per cent of
wages on offer, critics savaged the EU for its "arrogance".

And the extraordinary salaries and holidays for its staff will add weight to the
Daily Express crusade to withdraw the UK from the EU.

Europe's new foreign ministry, the European External Action Service, was
formally launched behind closed doors last week in a low-key ceremony designed
to keep it out of the headlines.

The body was established under the Lisbon Treaty and is headed by British Labour
peer Baroness Ashton.

Critics have claimed it will duplicate and undermine work already being done
around the world by member states' own diplomats and is y et another EU
power-grab.

Aides to Lady Ashton said she deliberately kept last week's Brussels launch
"humble" out of respect for austerity cuts being made in EU member states.

But yesterday it emerged that the 136 officials who flew in to mark the
occasion, only 10 of whom are British and some of whom are stationed in exotic
locations, are unlikely to be tightening their own belts.

Analysis revealed they are on salaries of between GBP 128,000 and GBP 188,000 a
year.

But they can boost that by as much as 50 per cent thanks to a string of
allowances ranging from "living conditions'' payments depending on the toughness
of the post, to grants for living away from home and daily subsistence.

Along with other EU officials, there are payments for the birth or adoption of a
child, travel expenses which can even include having their own cars taken from
Europe to the post and back .

Annual leave can be as much as 60 days including 18 bank holidays, although
officials said yesterday that only the most experienced diplomat, in the most
difficult and remote posting, would qualify.

The average annual leave was between around 30 and 40 days plus bank holidays.

Marta Andreasen, a British UKIP MEP, condemned the inflated packages, saying:
"At a time when the whole of Europe is struggling with a severe crisis it is
difficult to justify such incredible perks for people who probably spend much of
their time sunbathing."

She added: "This is all down to EU arrogance, thinking it can do this job better
than individual nations."

Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think-tank, said last night: "While
there's nothing wrong with countries pooling resources, the EU's foreign policy
ambitions have so far been marred by in-fighting, contradictory interests and
confusion about who's actually in charge.

"It's unclear what value these costly EU embassies are actually adding to
Britain's own diplomatic efforts.

"The EU's diplomatic corps risks becoming an expensive flag-waving exercise
funded by taxpayers, drawing funds away from national defence and foreign
affairs budgets at a time when every penny counts."

Emma Boon, campaigner director of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The EU foreign
service is another unbelievable example of the Europe gravy train. With whopping
salaries, long holidays and a lavish lifestyle funded in part by British
taxpayers, these diplomats are on Easy Street.

"With pressures on the public fiances and necessary spending cuts at home,
ordinary families in the UK should not be expected to pay for this sort of
thing.

The EU foreign ministry is expected to cost about GBP 400million to run next
year, of which GBP 54milion will come from British taxpayers, just as the
Foreign Office in London faces 17 per cent cuts to save GBP 300million.

LOAD-DATE: December 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               66 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            December 5, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU envoys soak up sun and lavish perks;
From Fiji to Barbados, EU diplomats enjoy hefty allowances and 12 weeks off,
backed by a budget of almost £7 billion, writes Bojan Pancevski

BYLINE: Bojan Pancevski; Robert Sandiford; Nicola Smith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 2584 words


DIPLOMATS earning up to £188,000 a year are entitled to at least 12 weeks off
from their duties in a new European Union foreign service that was unofficially
launched last week.

The diplomats can boost their salaries by 50% with allowances and perks ranging
from "expatriation", meaning living abroad, to baby bonuses and school fees.

They can also take 60 days off a year, including 18 bank holidays - nearly twice
as much leave as Foreign Office diplomats. EU officials in remote and difficult
locations can qualify for up to 15 days extra, bringing their total leave
entitlement to 15 weeks a year.

Details of the generous arrangements emerged as Baroness Ashton, Europe's
foreign policy chief, flew her 136 ambassadors from around the world to Brussels
to celebrate the birth of her European External Action Service (EEAS).

The ambassadors, only 10 of whom are British, travelled business class from
their lavish residences - many in exotic locations - to attend a pep-talk from
Ashton, followed by a cocktail party at taxpayers' expense.

An investigation by The Sunday Times has found that many EU ambassadors live in
palatial homes, some of which date back to the colonial era, enjoying sea views
and the services of staff such as cooks and drivers.

EU ambassadors receive annual salaries of £128,000 to £188,000 but they can top
up their income with a "living conditions allowance" of between 10% and 40%,
depending on their posting.

On top of her salary of up to £168,734, the EU ambassador to India, for example,
is entitled to an allowance of 30%, worth up to £50,000 a year. This is simply
for being stationed in Delhi, where she lives in a stately residence with her
family.

Ambassadors in highly developed modern centres such as Tokyo, Hong Kong and
Seoul receive a 15% top-up, while their counterpart on the Pacific island of
Fiji gets 25%.

Other allowances cover expatriation, which could run into thousands of pounds a
month, depending on family status. Then there are allowances for resettlement
and furniture, daily subsistence and entertainment and travel expenses.

Some officials in outposts in the Caribbean and South America even take their
cars from Europe - and back - at public expense.

Other perks include a bonus of £170 for giving birth or adopting a child and two
hours off for each hour worked on a Sunday or public holiday.

The EEAS was established by the Lisbon treaty and merges various EU institutions
into one under the leadership of Ashton, a former Labour minister who is now the
world's most highly paid female politician, on a package of £328,000.

Ashton, who had no foreign policy experience or language skills when she was
appointed last year, is in charge of 7,000 staff in 136 EU delegations across
the globe and funds of almost £7 billion, including aid.

While she claims she will give "one voice" on the international stage to the
EU's 500m citizens, disapproval is growing about the expansion of its overseas
presence at a time when Britain and other member states are implementing painful
public spending cuts at home.

Many MEPs believe the EU "delegations" - their official title - are largely
replicating the work of national foreign services and will add too little value
to justify their enormous cost.

FAR-FLUNG

The EU is represented in some countries where Britain does not bother to
maintain a presence.

In other countries the European delegations have up to three times as many staff
as their British counterparts.

Even in its home city of Brussels the EU maintains a 20-strong foreign service,
just 300 yards from Ashton's £10ma-year headquarters, although this is
controlled by the European commission. While gathering the EU ambassadors in
Brussels last week might have seemed extravagant, the bill was insignificant
compared with that of financing their operations in far-flung regions.

The running costs of the EEAS will reach £400m next year, of which £54m will
come from British taxpayers. The figure is expected to escalate sharply in the
coming years.

"Many of these people's work routine is akin to a prolonged holiday, with the
taxpayer picking up the bill," said Ingeborg Graessle, a senior German MEP
campaigning for transparency and fiscal prudence in the EU.

Ashton's officials are extremely well rewarded: no fewer than 130 earn more than
David Cameron whose annual salary is £142,000.

Contract details seen by The Sunday Times show that the living conditions
allowance, which many receive on top of their salary, rises to take account of
numerous factors, including the level of security, the quality of healthcare,
the climate, the degree of isolation and "other local conditions".

EU diplomats are also allowed one business-class trip a year home with their
family.

On top of their generous leave, eurocrats working overseas get four days off if
they marry and two days off to attend the weddings of their children.

"At a time when the whole of Europe is struggling with a severe crisis, it is
difficult to justify such incredible perks for people who probably spend much of
their time sunbathing," said Marta Andreasen, a UKIP MEP.

POOLSIDE

A 2008 auditors' report said thjat 40% of staff in all delegations were away
when they were inspected.

When The Sunday Times telephoned the Fiji embassy shortly after noon on Friday,
it was told that all the staff had "left for the day".

The delegation employs 35 people on the Commonwealth island of 800,000
inhabitants, while the British high commission has managed with a handful.

Wiepke Van Der Goot, a Dutchman who heads the EU's delegation in Fiji, lives in
a poolside residence next door to the home of Commodore Voreqe Bainimarama, who
seized power following a military coup in 2006. The house, one of the most
beautiful on the island, is surrounded by palm trees and close to the sea.

His staff play golf or sail in their spare time. They have recently enjoyed a
bonding retreat at the five-star Intercontinental Natadola Resort. The job of
the EU officials is mainly to implement aid pro jects, not only in Fiji but also
in numerous tiny island nations: the Cook Islands, Tonga and Kiribati among
them, along with Samoa, where the officials have a separate office.

The EU has separate representation even on the island states of Vanuatu, the
Solomon Islands and Papua New Guinea, with staffs of seven, 11 and 23
respectively.

In Fiji they have spent more than £38m since 2005. Recent projects have included
education and the construction of a bridge over the Rewa River. This ended in an
embarrassing argument after the EU insisted that it be called the Europa bridge,
while the local community demanded to keep the old name, the Rewa bridge.

There was another row when EU diplomats were accused of cultural insensitivity
after one of their officials called for a ban of the Fijian tradition of praying
before meetings.

"After all the years the EU has been in Fiji, it still has not understood the
country or its people," a Fijian government official said.

"It's often hard for them to bring themselves down to our level or to even try
and understand us."

COLONIAL

On the other side of the world the people of Barbados could be forgiven for
thinking that the 45 staff of the EU delegation are there at least in part to
enjoy themselves.

Valeriano Diaz, the EU's Spanish ambassador, lives in an elegant manor built in
the colonial style, surrounded by a lush tropical garden with a pool and another
striking sea view.

The terms of service mean that he can supplement his salary of up to £149,000
with an allowance of £15,000. Like some other EU diplomats, he and his family
are attended by a cook and a driver and have access to duty-free goods.

EU diplomats in Barbados also cover other Caribbean nations such as the British
Virgin Islands, Montserrat, Antigua and Barbuda, Grenada, St Kitts & Nevis,
Dominica, St Lucia, St Vincent and Anguilla.

Their main tasks are to manage aid programmes and handle trade issues, largely
concerned with bananas.

The delegation's premises are surrounded by smart hotels and cafes overlooking
the sea. In their abundant spare time, the staff enjoy beach sports and tennis.
They frequent the best restaurants, such as The Cliff in the town of St James.

Apart from its sizeable presence in such countries, the EU is also well
represented in the world's most important capitals - Washington, Beijing and
Moscow. However, there have been complaints that despite the funds and manpower,
EU diplomats have little or no clout.

Controversy has surrounded some appointments, such as that of Joao Vale de
Almeida - the EU ambassador to Washington is regarded as being close to Jose
Manuel Barroso, the president of the European commission.

"The EEAS is quickly turning into a bureaucratic giant - but remains a
diplomatic midget," said Mats Persson, director of Open Europe, the Londonbased
think thank.

"Common EU embassies only make sense if countries can boost their clout and save
money by pooling resources, but at present they only add confusion while drawing
vital funds away from national foreign ministries," Persson said. Even the
generous development aid partly disseminated by the delegations has been
attacked for "incoherence".

"Incoherencies in its policies mean that the EU is giving with one hand but
taking away with the other, leaving the world's poor as the big losers," said a
spokesman for Action Aid.

Britain has 10 ambassadors in the EU diplomatic service and was given just one
posting, Sudan, in the last batch to be announced by Ashton. She appointed
Rosalind Marsden, a past British ambassador in both Iraq and Afghanistan.

For all the privileges of her subordinates, Ashton is unchallenged at the top of
the salary scale. But high-ranking officials from her own service have condemned
her for failing to articulate a coherent foreign policy and causing
"frustration" among foreign ministers and ambassadors who say they are often
unable to get through to her.

"Before the EU sends its host of diplomats to exotic far-flung destinations of
the globe, it needs to come up with some meaningful policies actually worth
pursuing on the global stage," said Persson.

"Until then taxpayers have every right to question why they should fund the
generous salaries and perks of these officials.

It's far from clear what the EU's various diplomats are actually doing."

Approached last week for a response to the disclosures and criticisms, a
spokesman for Ashton said he would answer "the political question" the following
day, but failed to do so.

Additional reporting: Robert Sandiford in Barbados

Easy money

Living conditions allowance

Up to 40% of salary, depending on the posting. In India it is 30%; in Barbados
and Mauritius it is 10%

Expatriation allowance

Can run into thousands of pounds a month depending on family status

Resettlement allowance

Paid on termination of service, up to two months' salary

Installation allowance

Up to two months' basic salary to help diplomats settle in

Removal expenses

Up to half of the installation allowance

Daily subsistence Up to £32 a day for the first 120-180 days, depending on
family status

Household allowance

£127 a month, plus 2% of an official's salary

Birth/adoption of child £170

Dependent child allowance

£310 a month per child

Education allowance

Up to £210 a month per child

Pre-school allowance

£75 a month for each child under five

Travel

Access to either cars with drivers, a car provided to staff or a mileage
allowance if they use their own cars. Also entitled to one annual business class
round trip home, with families Leave Entitled to 60 days off, including 18 bank
holidays. Some get an extra 15 days, depending on posting. They can claim two
hours off for each hour of overtime Pension Entitled to a pension of up to 70%
of final basic salary after completing 10 years of service or if over the age of
63

A Eurocrat's life: island home, 18 staff and work stops at 4pm

An attractive two-storey villa, with a veranda and pool overlooking the Ile
Ronde in the Indian Ocean, ensures that Alessandro Mariani, an Italian Eurocrat,
and his wife will enjoy a comfortable stay during his stint as the European
Union's ambassador to Mauritius.

A large EU flag marks the spot, fluttering outside the luxurious home, which is
rented from a Mauritian family, near Goodlands, one of the island's most
expensive locations.

The property has a gatehouse, with a security guard to greet visitors. Beyond
the white gates, a long, winding driveway leads through a lush garden, dotted
with palm trees, to the entrance, where a Citroën Xsara and a Toyota Land
Cruiser, both with diplomatic number plates, are parked.

Mariani was unavailable to discuss his residence last week as he had flown to
Brussels. His staff would not explain what the European Union does in this ocean
paradise because they have been instructed not to talk to journalists about EU
embassies.

There are 18 European staff - including three drivers - and 19 local workers at
the EU's headquarters on the tiny holiday island, which measures just 28 miles
by 53. That compares generously with the British high commission: it has four
diplomats and they also cover the Comoros islands and Madagascar.

From suite 801 on the top floor of a prime office location in the centre of Port
Louis, the capital, the Eurocrats mainly run development projects in Mauritius,
Comoros, the Seychelles and Mayotte.

They also manage a £118.6m fund to reform the sugar sector. Further funding is
provided for jails for Indian Ocean pirates.

The Eurocrats' perks include frequent trips home, medical insurance and an
allowance to send their children to Le Bocage international school or the lycée.

The embassy reflects the island's slow pace of life. An 8am start and 4pm finish
allows staff to enjoy the white sand beaches and bars around the harbour.

Baroness Ashton, the EU foreign policy chief, drew criticism when she attended
an anti-piracy conference in October at the Intercontinental hotel in the resort
of Balaclava. Her opponents thought she should have been in Brussels to discuss
the fate of Britain's EU rebate.

The embassy's presence is a mystery to many of the island's inhabitants. "There
are a lot of them there. What do they all do in such a small place?" said one
perplexed businesswoman.

The high commission runs a full consular and visa service, looking after 11,000
British citizens living in Mauritius and 100,000 annual visitors. It boosts UK
firms, handles piracy and helps Britons in strife-torn Madagascar.

Last week British diplomats were working flat out during a four-day trip by the
Princess Royal which included meetings with the president and prime minister. It
filled the local newspapers.

By contrast, local officials and journalists said they were unsure what the EU
did. An EU spokesman in Brussels refused to answer questions.

Nicola Smith

''THE EU GIVES WITH ONE HAND BUT TAKES AWAY WITH THE OTHER

EU head offive in Mauritius 37 employees

EU head office in Fiji 35 employees 45 employees EU Full house Figures show how
well-staffed EU embassies are worldwide Europe Pacific Africa North America Asia
Caribbean and South America Russia Belgium (Not under Ashton's control but run
by the European commission) 106 13 40 14 81 73 15 19 10 18 68 32 17 51 61 24 79
32 20 11 7 23 Solomon Islands Vanuatu Papua New Guinea Trinidad & Tobago Guyana
Surinam Egypt Morocco Djibouti Togo Thailand Cape Verde Lesotho (in addition to
the 56 in South Africa) (No UK diplomatic representation) (No UK diplomatic
representation) (No UK diplomatic representation) Sri Lanka Yemen Japan China
New York Washington Mexico

LOAD-DATE: December 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Wiepke Van Der Goot, top, head of delegation of the European Union to
Fiji, and Valeriano Diaz, the EU's Spanish ambassador in Barbados EU EU head
office in Barbados
Mariani lives in luxury in Mauritius
4 CORNERS IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               67 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            December 3, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

How much does it cost to win a vote? £1.54 if it's for the Tories

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 666 words


THE CONSERVATIVES outspent all the other parties combined on this year's general
election, figures released by the Electoral Commission reveal.

The biggest change from the previous election was the dramatic depletion of the
Labour campaign's war chest. It spent just over £8m on the three month campaign,
less than half the £16.7m spent by the Tories. The figure for the Liberal
Democrats was £4.8m, the most they have ever spent.

The Conservatives were so rich that one day they spent £5,532 projecting a
picture of David Cameron onto London's Battersea Power Station.

They also invested thousands of pounds in ideas that were dropped before the
public had even heard about them. M&S Saatchi billed them £3,466 for a poster to
warn the public about the pitfalls of a hung Parliament.

There were also bills of more than £2,500 for ideas featuring a "double-headed
donkey" - a reference to a famous cartoon by David Low ridiculing the Coalition
Government of 1922.

The figures also reveal the problems Labour had attracting wealthy donors after
Gordon Brown replaced Tony Blair as leader. In 2005 they were in a position to
splash out £18m.

Among the items listed on the Tory campaign's returns are £140,000 worth of
prizes for fund-raising auctions donated by the restaurateur Richard Caring, who
was previously a Labour donor.

One embarrassment for Labour, which the Tories were quick to point out
yesterday, is that bills for more than £35,000 for the use of ministerial cars
during the campaign still have not been paid, after the legal deadline has
passed.

But Labour countered that it was not their fault. A source at the party's HQ
said civil servants sent the bill to Downing Street - apparently forgetting that
Labour is no longer in power - so the invoices did not reach Labour until the
deadline had been missed.

But at least the Labour Party can claim to have got better value for money,
because each vote they gathered cost them an average of 93p, whereas the
high-spending Tories gathered only one vote for every £1.54 they spent. The Lib
Dems did even better, spending 70p per vote gained.

One item that did not go to waste was the £4,524 they spent on a bespoke pair of
5ft-high boots, which were used for a photo shoot that purported to show Gordon
Brown crushing the economic recovery.

They also spent £188 on a mask of Tony Blair and more than £600 on Gordon Brown
masks.

The Labour Party's campaign returns reveal that David Prescott, son of the
former Deputy Prime Minister, was paid £17,500 in consultancy fees - £250 a day
- for accompanying his father around the country on the "Go Fourth" campaign.
This was on top of hotel bills and other costs.

Labour spent more than £1,600 on gas and inflator equipment for campaign
balloons and £351 on six boxes of 60 bars of rock with the campaign slogan "A
Future Fair for All" running through them.

Another £360 went on hiring a Mercedes S class limousine for a day for Alastair
Campbell, who was also put up at Labour's expense for one night in a £340 hotel
room. Everyone else in the Labour campaign team, apart from Gordon Brown, had to
settle for a £118-a-night room that night.

One of the biggest items of expenditure for the Liberal Democrats was the
£253,000 they were charged for private flights for Nick Clegg, Vice Cable and
other senior party members. Maintaining Mr Clegg's website during the campaign
cost more than £10,000.

Of the other parties, the biggest roller by far was the UK Independence Party,
which spent £732,780 but won no seats. The Green Party invested £325,425, most
of which went on the successful campaign to see Caroline Lucas elected as the
first Green MP. The Scottish National Party spent £315,776, Plaid Cymru £144,933
and the BNP £29,460.

CONSERVATIVE

Spend £16,682,874

Votes 10,806,105

£/vote £1.54

LABOUR

Spend £8,009,483

Votes 8,606,518

£/vote £0.93

PLAID CYMRU

Spend £144,933

Votes 165,400

£/vote £0.88

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Spend £4,787,595

Votes 6,836,198

£/vote £0.70

SCOTTISH NATIONALISTS

Spend £315,776

Votes 491,400

£/vote £0.64

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            December 3, 2010 Friday

Letter - The Lib Dems' ridiculous Laurel and Hardy show

LENGTH: 247 words


For weeks the Lib Dem equivalent of Laurel and Hardy - Nick Clegg and Vince
Cable - have been touring the TV and radio studios trying to defend the
indefensible Tory policy of introducing £10,000 top-up fees for universities in
England and Wales.

The fact that both of these men benefited from a free university education seems
to have escaped them.

And this comes after Clegg gave a cast-iron guarantee during the election that
he would first abolish tuition fees, only to modify his position by saying he
would not increase them.

And then he performed a 180-degree turn, selling out all his principles for a
junior fall-guy role in government.

Now taken aback by the anger and vitriol directed against them by the mass
student protest Clegg can't tell us if he is even going to vote for the proposal
he endorses and says is fairer than the current system.

Cable says he may abstain even though he is the man in charge of implementing
the fee increase.

The consequences of the student protests for the Lib Dems will be far reaching.
The young protesters will be the voters in future elections for at least the
next 50 years.

The Lib Dems will be consigned to the fringes somewhere between Ukip and the
Monster Raving Loony Party.

What is clear is that the students have the beard and sandals brigade on the
run. Mass action in this case is working. If the student fees can be stopped by
popular resistance so too can the whole government programme of public service
cuts.

ALAN HINNRICHS, Dundee.

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      December 3, 2010 Friday 11:42 AM GMT

This Coalition grows more disorderly every day

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1057 words


The LibDemCon Coalition becomes more disorderly every day. The Prime Minister
tells the Commons that he wants to repeal the Human Rights Act, and I agree with
him, although I do not think we need a new another one with just  a different
name. Magna Carta, the Common Law and the Bill of Rights worked perfectly well
for centuries before the laws of Europe seeped into our judicial system.  But
Lord McNally, the Deputy Leader of the House of Lords, has told us that he will
have nothing to do with the repeal of the HRA.

Now we have the bizarre university fees affair.  Mr Vince Cable is the Secretary
of State responsible for the Government's policies on that.  He says that the
policy is good, sensible and fair.  He recommends that Conservative (and for
that matter Labour, Nationalist and other minor parties too) should vote for it.
But he doesn't know whether to vote for it himself.  He is waiting to hear what
other LibDem MPs are going to do.  He might vote for it, against it, or abstain,
but  the merit of the matter will have nothing to do with his decision.

Now for backbenchers to kick over the traces and fail to support their
government is one thing, but for a Cabinet Minister not to support the policy of
his own Department, which he designed and recommends to his colleagues is simply
absurd.

I know that the Liberals have form on splits, and this time, for a change,  want
to stick together for safety in the face of their hostile voters. I remember
they split four ways on my industrial relations reform legislation. Some voted
for it, some against, some did not turn up at all and some came along to abstain
in person.  But this takes muddle and indecision to new heights; or should that
be depths.

What will it be next?  Which way would Mr Cable vote if the Opposition moved a
motion of no confidence on the matter?

Perhaps it is just as well that Mr Cameron failed to bring home the 2018 World
Football Cup.  It seems that some of his team can't decide whether to kick the
ball into the other team's net, or into their own, or to run off the field with
it in a fit of temper.Come on fellows, I have been saying I thought the
Coalition would stick together until the next election, but you can't go on like
this.

I must say that over 800 comments on my last blog was rather a lot and I simply
was not able read them all, but I did rather enjoy some of the more acerbic
disputes, often on subjects well away from poor Major's admiration of coalition
politics.  Some of the views expressed I thought a bit odd, especially yet
another final performance from Fabian solutions and those from Dickturnip.
Should that be two words I asked myself, and did he reallly chose them to
describe himself.  Well, who am I to dispute that with him.

I am afraid I have to disagree with assegai and alex9tunbridgewells on Major's
opt-outs from the Maastricht treaty.  He had no need to agree to the provisions
for the creation of the Euro being in an EU treaty at all.  It needed unaminity.
Nor did he have to agree to a Social Chapter at all.  His "opt out" was
valueless.  Once Blair opted in, we no longer had the power to opt out again.

I am afraid some comments did  get hung up on Major's record in opening the door
to the Euro Republicans and  Blair, rather than questioning why he is now so
keen on allowing Ministers to oppose the  policies of the Government.  Anyway,
as Jockmcsporran wrote, his arguments on the Euro never did make sense.

As Intrepid001 said, Major supports "the middle ground".  I think that is right
and why once Conservative voters realised it, his vote crashed by 4.5 million,
or getting on for a third. Incidentally, I cannot understand why Intrepid001
could not get regional employment statistics when I was Secretary of State. They
were hurled at me at every Question Time.

I am sorry that Junius  has not thought more about why Hague and Howard failed
to defeat Blair.  Hague never had any prospect of winning in 2001.  It was not
just his inexperience but having gone for Blair and new Labour in '97 the
electors were going to give him a decent run and while he stuck with Lamont's
tax and spending plans they could not see much harm in him.  As for Howard's
defeat in 2005, there were a good many reasons for that and I am surprised that
Junius did not mention who master-minded that campaign.  I think it was a
brilliant young fellow called Cameron.

UrbanMichaelSavage was right to point to the malign effects of entryism into the
Conservative Party by SDP supporters like Daniel Finkelstein which has also
played its part in moving it towards the Europhile left.

That brings me back to my theme that Conservatives have to regain control of the
Conservative Party. Like Bryan Shires and others, I think Phil Keane's plan for
the great coalition in the national interest is unrealistic, but Summermir
pointed out that with help from the Taxpayers Alliance it was possible to
deselect a bunch of unconservative councillors. The system can be made to work.
Finkelstein and his allies have shown that.  I did not work alone in my
association. I worked with Cecil Parkinson amongst others. That is what
I_detect_a_riot must do too.

That is my answer to Skicarver too.  Yes, mandates have been ignored.  If you do
not like that, then vote the so-and-sos out.  That is what LibDem voters are
threatening to do to Mr Cable and co. Why did David's MP get away with a report
to his association which most members though was nonsense?

It needed a vote of no confidence if it was as bad as David suggested. There
were a good many comments on the quality of the leadership of Farage and the
prospects for UKIP. I understand why Jackfrost says that the views of Farage are
closer to his than those of Cameron, but I have not been impressed by his
abilities as a gatherer of votes. So whilst I am glad that Boudicca agreed with
me on Cameron's moves to consolidate the LibDems into the Conservative Party, I
do not share her admiration for Farage.

Finally, I should thank several of you, including Nechtar, Jay, Antikato,
Zaharadelsierra and others who had kind words for me.  I appreciate that.  Of
course there were others, including one who regularly declares that no one is
interested in what I say, but still keeps reading my blog. I rather like that.

I am only sorry that I cannot pick up points from far more of your posts.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

UKIP CRASH PILOT ON THREATS TO KILL RAP;
Air boss is arrested after phone calls to policep

BYLINE: ELIZABETH JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 239 words


THE pilot of the UKIP leader Nigel Farage's crashed plane was yesterday charged
with threatening to kill him.

Justin Adams was at the controls of the light aircraft that slammed into a field
on General Election day in May, seriously injuring the UK Independence Party's
top man.

Stunt

The charge does not relate directly to the accident but is believed to be a
result of phone calls which Adams, 45, made to police last week and on Sunday.

He has also been charged with threatening to kill the Civil Aviation Authority
official who investigated the crash.

Adams was flying the Polish-made Wilga 35A with Mr Farage, 46, sitting alongside
when it suddenly nose-dived during a UKIP stunt on the morning of May 6.

Mr Farage was able to walk away from the scene while Adams was trapped in the
mangled wreckage. The seriously-injured pilot was airlifted to hospital from the
crash at Hinton-on-the-Hedges, near Brackley, Northants.

A probe by crash investigators found the accident was caused by the UKIP
campaign banner, which the plane was trailing, becoming entangled in the tail,
forcing it into a dive.

Following publication of the crash report Mr Farage said: "It was an accident -
these things happen in life.

"I give thanks to the fact I got through it and I wish the pilot the best of
luck in his recovery."

Adams, who runs a firm called Sky Banners in Buckland, Oxon, was remanded in
custody for a week by Oxford magistrates.

news@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOWN BUT NOT OUT: Nigel Farage, left, and Justin Adams, inset top

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP CRASH PILOT ON THREATS TO KILL RAP

BYLINE: by ELIZABETH JAMES

SECTION: NEWS; 18

LENGTH: 243 words


Air boss is arrested after phone calls to police

THE pilot of the UKIP leader Nigel Farage's crashed plane was yesterday charged
with threatening to kill him.

Justin Adams was at the controls of the light aircraft that slammed into a field
on General Election day in May, seriously injuring the UK Independence Party's
top man.

The charge does not relate directly to the accident but is believed to be a
result of phone calls which Adams, 45, made to police last week and on Sunday.

He has also been charged with threatening to kill the Civil Aviation Authority
official who investigated the crash.

Adams was flying the Polish-made Wilga 35A with Mr Farage, 46, sitting alongside
when it suddenly nose-dived during a UKIP stunt on the morning of May 6.

Mr Farage was able to walk away from the scene while Adams was trapped in the
mangled wreckage. The seriously-injured pilot was airlifted to hospital from the
crash at Hinton-on-the-Hedges, near Brackley, Northants.

A probe by crash investigators found the accident was caused by the UKIP
campaign banner, which the plane was trailing, becoming entangled in the tail,
forcing it into a dive.

Following publication of the crash report Mr Farage said: "It was an accident -
these things happen in life.

"I give thanks to the fact I got through it and I wish the pilot the best of
luck in his recovery."

Adams, who runs a firm called Sky Banners in Buckland, Oxon, was remanded in
custody for a week by Oxford magistrates.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DOWN BUT NOT OUT: Nigel Farage, left, and Justin Adams, inset top

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Crash pilot is accused of threat to kill Nigel Farage

BYLINE: By John Chapman

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 290  words


THE pilot of the plane which crashed with Ukip leader Nigel Farage aboard during
a political stunt has been charged with threatening to kill him.

Justin Adams, 45, has also been charged with threatening to kill the official
probing the accident.

He was at the controls of the light aircraft which slammed into a field on
General Election day in May.

Euro MP Mr Farage, who was running for Parliament, survived the crash.

Adams was arrested on Sunday after calls to police alleged that he threatened to
kill Mr Farage last Friday and that on Sunday similarly threatened Civil
Aviation Authority investigator Martin James.

He spoke only to confirm his name, age and address before magistrates in Oxford.
He was remanded in custody to Oxford Crown Court until Tuesday.

Adams was piloting the Polish-made Wilga 35A, with Mr Farage sitting beside him,
when it suddenly nosedived towards the ground on the morning of May 6.

Amazingly Mr Farage, 46, managed to walk from the scene of the accident.

Adams was trapped in the mangled wreckage.

The seriously injured pilot was later airlifted from the site in
Hinton-on-theHedges, near Brackley, Northants, to hospital in Coventry. The Air
Accident Investigation Branch found the crash was caused by the campaign banner
the plane was trailing.

The ropes towing the giant slogan reading: "Vote for your country: Vote UKIP",
become caught on the tail, forcing the plane into a dive.

Adams, of Buckland, Oxfordshire, ran a firm called Sky Banners.

Mr Farage, who hates flying, was making an unsuccessful bid to win over voters
as he fought to boot Commons Speaker John Bercow out of his Buckingham seat.

After the crash report, he said: "It was an accident, these things happen in
life. I wish the pilot the best of luck."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Pilot Justin Adams shortly before crash
Mr Farage is helped from the wreckage after the crash on Election Day in May

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Express leading the way on leaving Europeans;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 48

LENGTH: 58  words


I WAS near delirious with joy to see that a national paper has had the courage
to publish the unprintable - that the EU is the root cause of all our woes.

Hopefully others will follow suit, in particular the BBC. It will give heart to
UKIP to continue and may force the other parties to take notice of public anger
against politicians.

W McGeary, Dumfries

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               74 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 677 words


Panic on the streets of London, as Morrissey says. And not a little
consternation at Scotland Yard on Tuesday, when senior officers supervising the
operation to deal with student protests became aware that one of their own stock
was stuck inside the police kettle. The 15-year-old daughter of an official from
the Metropolitan Police Authority - the force watchdog, no less - was trapped
inside the police cordon in freezing weather. Top cops watching scenes unfold on
CCTV from the warmth of the command centre were baffled, convinced they had
forensically corralled a "hardcore minority intent on disorder". But all was
well, because after a phone call alerting them to her identity, the teenager -
who was in school uniform - was allowed out. Now, who said kettling is a form of
arbitrary imprisonment?

Not us. Not MPs. But it is true that honourable members trying to scrutinise
last week's policing operation were themselves subject to the kettling effect.
Students tried to enter Portcullis House, and so the main doors were locked on
the order of the Met. Students couldn't get in: inquisitive MPs struggled to get
out. Perfect.

And pity the Lib Dems on the student issue. The party is riven; Clegg is dizzy,
the tuition fees U-turn still spinning his head. And Vince just doesn't know how
to vote, despite the fact that he is now responsible for the policy. Poor Vince.
He could, in normal circumstances, seek some private advice from Stephen
Marston, the director general of universities at the department. Marston has
been leading the fees reforms and supervised the government's review of the
funding issue, conducted by Lord Browne. But he is losing that role, a result of
a merger of the science and the universities director-general positions. So it
would take a lot of brass neck to seek guidance from him.

But then the coalition's leading lights have a lot of brass neck. Long memories
too. Something for the former Labour minister Lord Adonis to think about as his
organisation, the Institute for Government, parades the list, compiled with the
Political Studies Association, detailing the "most successful" government
policies since 1980. What do you know? Nine of the 15 are manifestly Labour,
including devolution, the Human Rights Act and the minimum wage. Also the
smoking ban, free entry to museums and, ahem, independence for the Bank of
England. The government will get the message, although the apolitical institute
is too canny to point out that many of these "successful" policies were, in
fact, opposed by leading coalitionists. Or that others are being unravelled as
we speak.

A message to the two young women who appeared to be travelling separately and
boarded the 8.54am train from Shenfield in Essex to Liverpool Street in London.
You saw the weather: snow and frost. Felt the chill: minus 1C. You saw the other
commuters, shivering despite their hats and scarves and gloves and boots. And
yet you wore skirts and holiday-beach flip flops. Whatever your motivation, much
respect!

Because it's cold indeed, and it's slippery, and in such conditions anything
could happen. "Snow on Dereham shop roof could fall on shoppers," warned the
Eastern Daily Press.

It's a serious situation, but let it not distract us from the crisis in
Brussels. Senior bods there want to discipline Ukip's Godfrey "Eight Pints"
Bloom just because he hurled one of Hitler's favoured slogans ("one people, one
empire, one leader") at Martin Schultz, a German member of the European
parliament. Yesterday Eight Pints and his lawyer met Jerzy Buzek, a Pole and the
parliament's president. But things weren't resolved, because Bloom objected to
the procedure, on the basis that his slur did not in itself disrupt the meeting.
He also argued, with a supporting video montage, that other MEPs have previously
called each other "fascist", and should be disciplined as well. "I said we could
be lined up against the wall and shot, as is your custom," said Eight Pints.
Strangely, that failed to calm things down. Why won't they meet Godders halfway?

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday

Pilot in Farage crash accused of threatening to kill Ukip leader

BYLINE: Caroline Davies

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 429 words


The pilot of the plane that crashed with Ukip leader Nigel Farage on board has
appeared in court charged with threatening to kill the politician in a separate
incident.

Justin Adams, 45, also faces a charge of threatening to kill an air accident
official who investigated the crash, which happened on the day of the general
election.

He appeared before Oxford magistrates on Tuesday and was remanded in custody. He
spoke only to confirm his name, age and address.

Adams was arrested by Thames Valley police on Sunday at his home in Buckland,
near Faringdon, Oxfordshire, after allegations that he had threatened to kill
Farage last Friday before allegedly making threats against a Civil Aviation
Authority investigator two days later. He is due to appear at Oxford crown court
next Tuesday.

Adams was at the controls of the Polish-made Wilga 35A light aircraft which came
down on the Hinton-in-the-Hedges airfield in Northamptonshire. A report by the
Air Accident Investigation Branch found the crash was caused by the campaign
banner the plane was trailing.

Ropes used to tow the banner, which read "Vote for your country: Vote Ukip", had
become caught on the tail of the aircraft, forcing it to nose-dive, said the
report.

Farage suffered broken ribs, bruised lungs and facial injuries but managed to
walk away from the plane. Adams was seriously injured and trapped in the mangled
wreckage. He remained conscious and was airlifted to hospital, where he is
understood to have undergone several operations.

The pilot, who recently moved to Oxfordshire from Walton-on-Thames, Surrey, ran
a firm called Sky Banners.

At the time of the crash Farage was trying to oust the Commons speaker, John
Bercow, from his Buckingham seat. Having led Ukip from 2006 to 2009, he had
stepped down to concentrate on his election campaign, but after coming third
with 8,401 votes he resumed leadership of the party on 5 November.

Following publication of the crash report, the politician said: "I think the
conclusion is the best for everyone. It was an accident, there we are, these
things happen in life. I give thanks to the fact I got through it. I have never
liked flying - always hated it, although I have done a fair bit of it as an MEP.
Part of the flight on 6 May was an attempt to challenge my demons. Look how that
ended up."

He added: "I wish the pilot the best of luck in his recovery. I know he's had
several operations and was not in a good way at all."

Captions:

Nigel Farage and the pilot, Justin Adams, were both hurt in the crash in May.
The charges relate to alleged threats last week

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Farage pilot 'made death threats';
COURTS

BYLINE: Katie Hodge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 200 words


THE PILOT of the plane that crashed and injured Nigel Farage during a polling
day stunt has been charged with threatening to kill the Ukip leader in what is
described as a separate incident.

Justin Adams, 45, had been contracted to fly the light aircraft which nose-dived
to the ground while towing a campaign banner on 6 May, the day of the general
election. Mr Farage, who escaped with broken ribs, bruised lungs and facial
injuries, later declared himself "the luckiest man alive".

Mr Adams was arrested at his home in Faringdon, Oxfordshire, on Sunday. He
appeared before magistrates in the city on Tuesday charged with two counts of
making threats to kill, was remanded in custody and will appear again on 7
December.

It is believed the second count Mr Adams faces relates to the threatening of an
aviation official.

An Air Accidents Investigation Branch report found the PZL-104 Wilga 35A came
down after the banner reading: "Vote for your country: Vote Ukip", became
wrapped around the tail of the aircraft. This caused the plane's nose to drop
and although Mr Adams "maintained some control of the aircraft," he could not
prevent it crashing into a field at Hinton-in-the-Hedges in Northamptonshire.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

CRASH PILOT'S 'THREAT TO KILL' UKIP'S LEADER;
TAUNTS TO FARAGE AND INVESTIGATOR

BYLINE: RICHARD SMITH

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 164 words


THE pilot of Nigel Farage's crashed plane has been charged with threatening to
kill the UKIP leader.

Justin Adams, who was flying the light aircraft which slammed into a field on
General Election day, has been remanded in custody.

He has also been charged with threatening to kill an air crash investigator.

JPs ordered Adams, of Oxford, to appear at the city's crown court on Tuesday.

He was arrested on Sunday after allegations he threatened to kill Mr Farage on
November 26 and made similar threats to Civil Aviation Authority investigator
Martin James on Sunday.

The plane carrying Adams and Mr Farage nose-dived in Northants on May 6. Both
men were badly injured in the crash and Adams was trapped in the mangled
wreckage.

Air accident investigators found ropes used to carry a UKIP banner had become
caught in the plane's tail.

Mr Farage, who has a fear of flying, was trying to oust Speaker John Bercow MP
from his Buckingham seat.

He failed but last month was reelected leader of UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: NOSE-DIVE The wrecked plane on election day BLOODY UKIP leader walks
away from crash ACCUSED Justin Adams WRECKAGE Farage is helped from the plane

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

CRASH PILOT'S 'DEATH THREAT' TO UKIP BOSS

BYLINE: JAMIE PYATT

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 240 words


A PILOT seriously injured in the plane crash alongside UKIP leader Nigel Farage
has been charged with threatening to kill the controversial politician.

Justin Adams is also accused of making a similar warning to the air accident
expert who investigated the smash.

He has appeared in court, where magistrates heard the alleged threats were made
more than six months after the accident. Adams, 45, was at the controls of the
light aircraft which slammed into a field on General Election day in May.

He was hired for a party political stunt by Mr Farage, 46, who was sitting
beside him when the plane nosedived to the ground.

The bloodied UKIP chief, who suffered a chipped spine, damaged sternum and
broken ribs, was famously pictured being helped away from the wreckage.

Adams, who had serious spinal injuries, was trapped for an hour before being
freed and airlifted to hospital for surgery.

A probe by the Transport Department's Air Accident Investigation Branch found
the crash was caused by a 15ft campaign banner the plane was towing.

Its ropes became caught on the tail of the aircraft, forcing it into a steep
dive above Hinton-on-the-Hedges, Northants. Adams, boss of a firm called Sky
Banners, allegedly threatened Mr Farage last Friday and investigator Martin
James on Sunday.

He appeared before JPs in Oxford on Tuesday but did not enter a plea on either
charge.

He was remanded in custody prior to a crown court hearing.

j.pyatt@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Before ... Adams straps Farage in
Injury . . Adams
Escape ... bloodied Nigel Farage is helped from wrecked plane

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Pilot of UKIP plane in election day crash is charged with threat to kill Nigel
Farage

BYLINE: Simon de Bruxelles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 416 words


The pilot of the light aircraft that crashed on the day of the general election,
injuring Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), has been
charged with making threats to kill the politician.

Both Mr Farage and the pilot, Justin Adams, survived the crash on May 6. The
pilot had just unfurled a campaign banner when he lost control and the
Polish-made Wilga 35A nosedived into the ground.

Mr Adams has also been charged with threatening to kill the official who
investigated the accident. He was remanded in custody by magistrates in Oxford.

Mr Farage, 46, who had given up the leadership of UKIP to contest the Buckingham
seat of John Bercow, the Speaker of the House of Commons, was photographed
walking away from the wreckage of the plane while Mr Adams was still trapped in
the cockpit.

The seriously injured pilot remained conscious and was later airlifted from the
scene, in Hinton-in-the-Hedges, near Brackley, Northamptonshire, to hospital in
Coventry.

A report by the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) of the Department for
Transport blamed the crash on the campaign banner the plane had been trailing.
It said ropes used to tow the giant slogan, which read: "Vote for your country:
Vote UKIP", had become caught on the tail of the lightweight aircraft, forcing
it into a dive. Earlier the plane had had to make low-level passes before it was
able to hook the banner from a special rig.

In court Mr Adams spoke only to confirm his name, age and address. He was
arrested after police were told that he threatened to kill Mr Farage on November
26 and that on Sunday he made similar threats against Martin James, the Civil
Aviation Authority investigator.

The businessman, who lives in the village of Buckland, Oxfordshire, and ran a
firm called Sky Banners, did not enter a plea to either charge. He was remanded
in custody and ordered to appear at Oxford Crown Court next Tuesday.

Mr Farage, who previously led UKIP from 2006 to 2009, was in a hospital bed when
he learnt that he had come third with only 8,401 votes. He was re-elected to the
party leadership on November 5. After the publication of the crash report Mr
Farage said: "I think the conclusion is the best for everyone. It was an
accident, there we are, these things happen in life. I give thanks for the fact
I got through it. I have never liked flying - always hated it, although I have
done a fair bit of it as an MEP. Part of the flight was an attempt to challenge
my demons. Look how that ended up."

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Investigators examine the wreckage after the polling day crash that
injured Nigel Farage and the pilot, Justin Adams

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 86 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           December 2, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage pilot in 'death threat'

BYLINE: Simon de Bruxelles

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 156 words


The pilot of the light aircraft that crashed on the day of the general election,
injuring Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party (UKIP), has been
charged with making threats to kill the politician.

Mr Farage and the pilot, Justin Adams, survived the crash on May 6. Mr Adams had
just unfurled a campaign banner when he lost control and the Wilga 35A nosedived
into the ground.

Mr Adams, of Buckland, Oxfordshire, has also been charged with threatening to
kill Martin James, the Civil Aviation Authority official who investigated the
accident. Mr Adams was remanded in custody by Oxford magistrates.

Mr Farage, 46,was photographed walking away from the wreckage after the crash
near Brackley, Northamptonshire, to hospital in Coventry. A report by the Air
Accidents Investigation Branch said that ropes used to tow the giant slogan,
which read: "Vote for your country: Vote UKIP", had become caught on the tail of
the aircraft.

LOAD-DATE: December 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Libya's £4bn border 'bribe'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 109 words


LIBYAN leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafihas demanded £4billion to stop Europe
turning "black".

The dictator warned that the EU could be swamped by Muslims unless Africa gets
the cash to tackle illegal migration.

He made the ultimatum at a two-day summit of European Union and African leaders
in Libyan capital Tripoli.

Change Col Gaddafisaid: "We should stop this illegal immigration.

"If we don't, Europe will become black.

"It will be overcome by people with different religions, it will change."

But UK Independence Party MEP Gerald Batten said: "The Libyan dictator demands
equality for Africa, yet he is looking for a £4billion bribe to block mass
migration."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEMAND: Gaddafi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Libya's GBP 4bn border 'bribe'

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 109 words


LIBYAN leader Colonel Muammar Gaddafi has demanded GBP 4billion to stop Europe
turning "black".

The dictator warned that the EU could be swamped by Muslims unless Africa gets
the cash to tackle illegal migration.

He made the ultimatum at a two-day summit of European Union and African leaders
in Libyan capital Tripoli.

Col Gaddafi said: "We should stop this illegal immigration.

"If we don't, Europe will become black.

"It will be overcome by people with different religions, it will change."

But UK Independence Party MEP Gerald Batten said: "The Libyan dictator demands
equality for Africa, yet he is looking for a GBP 4billion bribe to block mass
migration."

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEMAND: Gaddafi

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               83 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Gaddafi wants £4bn to stop Europe being flooded by migrants

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 548 words


LIBYAN leader Colonel Gaddafiis demanding billions of pounds from the European
Union to stop Europe turning "black" through immigration.

The dictator also warned that the EU could be swamped by Muslims unless the aid
is poured into schemes to tackle illegal immigration from Africa.

Gaddafimade the ultimatum at a two-day summit of EU and African leaders in
Libyan capital Tripoli. The meeting finished yesterday.

But last night, critics accused the tyrant of trying to hold Europe to ransom
and raised concerns that the EU may cave in to his huge demands.

Gaddafi, 68, sparked uproar at the summit by saying that unless "Christian
white" countries gave him around £4billion, Europe would be flooded by migrants
from poverty-stricken Africa.

"We should stop this illegal immigration. If we don't, Europe will become black,
it will be overcome by people with different religions, it will change," he
said. He complained Libya had only received £42million from the EU to help
tackle illegal immigration across the Mediterranean.

And he warned that African leaders were ready to abandon 10 years of trade talks
with the EU. He said: "Africa has other choices. Let every country and every
group govern itself. Every country is free to serve its own interests. Africa
can look to any other international bloc such as Latin America, China, India or
Russia."

But Gaddafi's demands were rejected by Eurosceptic critics last night. UK
Independence Party MP Gerald Batten said: "The Libyan dictator demands equality
for Africa yet looks for a £4billion bribe to block mass migration. He must
believe that the EU is corrupt.

"I guess he has been reading the EU auditors' report. His demands must be
rejected."

The row follows the outcry over the freeing of Lockerbie bomber, Abdelbaset Al
Megrahi, 58, to Tripoli following his controversial release last year from a
Scottish jail on compassionate grounds.

Earlier this year, EU officials suggested Gaddafi's demands were being taken
seriously.

Gaddafimade similar demands during a speech in Rome earlier this year when he
said: "Italy needs to convince OUT her European allies to accept this Libyan
proposal: Five billion euros to Libya to stop illegal immigration. Europe runs
the risk of turning black from illegal immigration, it could turn into Africa.

"We need support from the EU to stop this army trying to get across from Libya,
which is their entry point. There is a dangerous level of immigration from
Africa into Europe and we don't know what will happen.

"What will be the reaction of the white Christian Europeans to this mass of
hungry uneducated Africans? "We don't know if Europe will remain a cohesive
continent or if it will be destroyed by barbarian invasion.

"We have to imagine this could happen but before it does we need to work
together."

A leaked report from border officials estimates that 900,000 illegals a year
enter the European Union.

To print more copies of our voucher, go to www.express.co.uk/europe or join the
crusade online now at www.express.co.uk/web/europecrusade

CAMPAIGN GET US OF EUROPE

Q Should EU pay Gaddafito keep out migrants?

YES: 0901 030 8342 Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8343 No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Col Gaddafisays Europe will be swamped by immigrants

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               84 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Don't forget the benefits of sticking with Europe;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 48

LENGTH: 122 words


THOSE wishing to leave the European Community do not realise its benefits, such
as improving environmental quality (clean water, beaches etc) and large grants
for infrastructure, farm improvements etc.

The majority of businesses support membership. British tourism and farming
depend heavily on European workers.

Nearly a million British people, most owning properties, live on the continent
where they enjoy similar rights to locals. They would strongly oppose leaving
the EC. UK citizens visiting the continent can use excellent medical services at
minimal cost.

That UKIP has only tiny support shows that very few people favour secession,
whereas about 36 per cent want Scotland to leave the UK but stay in the EC.

Kevin Lawrie, Pitlochry

LOAD-DATE: December 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               85 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                Scottish Edition

Don't forget the benefits of sticking with Europe;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 48

LENGTH: 122  words


THOSE wishing to leave the European Community do not realise its benefits, such
as improving environmental quality (clean water, beaches etc) and large grants
for infrastructure, farm improvements etc.

The majority of businesses support membership. British tourism and farming
depend heavily on European workers.

Nearly a million British people, most owning properties, live on the continent
where they enjoy similar rights to locals. They would strongly oppose leaving
the EC. UK citizens visiting the continent can use excellent medical services at
minimal cost.

That UKIP has only tiny support shows that very few people favour secession,
whereas about 36 per cent want Scotland to leave the UK but stay in the EC.

Kevin Lawrie, Pitlochry

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               86 of 86 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           December 1, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Gaddafiwants GBP 4bn to stop Europe being flooded by migrants

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 522  words


LIBYAN leader Colonel Gaddafiis demanding billions of pounds from the European
Union to stop Europe turning "black" through immigration.

The dictator also warned that the EU could be swamped by Muslims unless the aid
is poured into schemes to tackle illegal immigration from Africa.

Gaddafimade the ultimatum at a two-day summit of EU and African leaders in
Libyan capital Tripoli. The meeting finished yesterday.

But last night, critics accused the tyrant of trying to hold Europe to ransom
and raised concerns that the EU may cave in to his huge demands.

Gaddafi, 68, sparked uproar at the summit by saying that unless "Christian
white" countries gave him around GBP 4billion, Europe would be folded by
migrants from poverty-stricken Africa.

"We should stop this illegal immigration. If we don't, Europe will become black,
it will be overcome by people with different religions, it will change, " he
said. He complained Libya had only received GBP 42million from the EU to help
tackle illegal immigration across the Mediterranean.

And he warned that African leaders were ready to abandon 10 years of trade talks
with the EU. He said: "Africa has other choices. Let every country and every
group govern itself. Every country is free to serve its own interests.

Africa can look to any other international bloc such as Latin America, China,
India or Russia."

But Gaddafi's demands were rejected by Eurosceptic critics last night. UK
Independence Party MP Gerald Batten said:

"The Libyan dictator demands equality for Africa yet looks for a GBP 4billion
bribe to block mass migration. He must believe that the EU is corrupt.

"I guess he has been reading the EU auditors' report. His demands must be
rejected."

The row follows the outcry over the freeing of Lockerbie bomber, Abdelbaset Al
Megrahi, 58, to Tripoli following his controversial release last year from a
Scottish jail on compassionate grounds.

Earlier this year, EU officials suggested Gaddafi's demands were being taken
seriously.

Gaddafi made similar demands during a speech in Rome earlier this year when he
said: "Italy needs to convince her European allies to accept this Libyan
proposal: Five billion euros to Libya to stop illegal immigration. Europe runs
the risk of turning black from illegal immigration, it could turn into Africa.

"We need support from the EU to stop this army trying to get across from Libya,
which is their entry point. There is a dangerous level of immigration from
Africa into Europe and we don't know what will happen.

"What will be the reaction of the white Christian Europeans to this mass of
hungry uneducated Africans?

"We don't know if Europe will remain a cohesive continent or if it will be
destroyed by barbarian invasion.

"We have to imagine this could happen but before it does we need to work
together."

A leaked report from border officials estimates that 900,000 illegals a year
enter the European Union.

Q Should EU pay Gaddafi to keep out migrants?

NO: 0901 030 8343 No text DXWEDNO to 80088

YES: 0901 030 8342 Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Col Gaddafi says Europe will be swamped by immigrants

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved
