
                               1 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

A Conservative-Lib Dem merger would leave millions of voters nowhere to go;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 407 words


SIR - Sir John Major (Comment, November 28) makes a compelling argument for the
Coalition to continue beyond the present parliament.

What he overlooks is the fate of those lifelong Tories who feel that the present
arrangement already goes too far in the compromises that have had to be made to
accommodate our Lib Dem allies.

For the country's sake, we can set aside our misgivings for the duration of one
parliament, but is it reasonable to expect us to do so permanently? If Sir
John's prediction proves to be accurate, where is the political party that can
represent our views adequately? Ukip? I don't think so.

There would be nowhere for us to go. British politics would be polarised between
a number of Left-aligned parties and a ragbag of extremists like the BNP.

John Waine

Nuneaton, Warwickshire

SIR - In view of the profound differences between the Conservatives and the
Liberal Democrats regarding the European Union and the possibly terminal euro
crisis, I wonder whether this co-operation will survive the current parliament,
let alone continue into the next one, unless the Liberal Democrats abandon their
long-standing Euro-federalism.

True Conservatives want an overall Conservative majority in the next parliament
and an end to coalition.

David Giles

London W4

SIR - Sir John's recommendation that the Coalition should continue must be
welcome to David Cameron, as it becomes increasingly apparent that the latter's
objective is to kill off the Conservative Party and form a new social democrat
one, combining the Europhiles of both his present party and of the Liberal
Democrats.

David Robertson

Woodford Green, Essex

SIR - Sir John is wrong to think that the Coalition will extend into the next
parliament. It is unlikely to last beyond May 5 when the Lib Dems will probably
lose a huge number of seats, as traditional supporters desert them, aided by
students protesting against their candidates during the Easter holiday.

The referendum on AV is likely to be lost, which means that the Lib Dems will
have gained nothing from the Coalition. At that point, Nick Clegg and his fellow
ministers will have no option but to join the Conservatives, leaving a rump of
Lib Dems, probably led by Simon Hughes, in opposition.

D.A. Greenwood East

Barnet, Hertfordshire

SIR - Sir John wants David Cameron to make the Coalition permanent. Wouldn't
agreeing to this be a bit like taking tactical military advice from General
Custer?

Mark Hudson

Ashford, Kent

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

LE PEN'S LEGACY: BITTER BATTLE FOR FUTURE OF THE FRENCH FAR RIGHT;
Next year, the National Front will elect a new leader who will decide whether
the party moves into the mainstream or remains extremist and marginal. By John
Lichfield

BYLINE: John Lichfield

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1923 words


The jolly, slightly bumbling man with a shock of white hair was once, briefly,
the most senior far-right politician in Europe. On a filthy night in Metz in
eastern France, he is addressing a restaurant filled with French patriots, aged
from 80 to four. He comes over as a mixture of a Euro MP and a university
professor (both of which he is) and an earnest small-town mayor (which he is
not).

His name is Bruno Gollnisch. You have probably never heard of him, even though
he was once, for 10 months in 2007, the president of a far-right group in the
European Parliament which included some of the most extreme and aggressive
nationalists in the EU. For many years, Mr Gollnisch, 60, has been the loyal
number two to a man that much of the world has heard of, Jean-Marie Le Pen, the
founder and president of the National Front, the French far-right party.

Mr Le Pen, 82, retires in January. Mr Gollnisch believes that it is now his turn
to rule one of the most successful - and feared - ultra-nationalist movements in
Europe. But there is someone in his way, Mr Le Pen's daughter Marine, 42.

The internal campaign to succeed Mr Le Pen will end in January with a vote of
the 75,000 party members before a conference in Tours. In recent days, the
campaign has become very nasty indeed. The kind of poisonous paranoia that the
NF usually directs at the rest of the world (especially immigrants and
mainstream politicians) has been turned inwards, against the party's would-be
leaders. Or rather mostly against one would-be leader: Marine Le Pen.

In some far-right newspapers and on ultra-Catholic websites, Ms Le Pen, has been
branded a "hussy outside religion and the law" and a "spineless" woman
surrounded by "unscrupulous opportunists, Jews and perverts". She has been
accused by the editor of one ultra-right magazine, Rivarol, of having "adopted
the two official religions of the Fifth Republic, abortion and the Holocaust".

Ms Le Pen, a pro-abortion, twice divorced, mother-of-three, is accused by the
ultra-Catholic website e-Deo of surrendering to the "evil one". What is more,
e-Deo says, she is a "feminist" and "invariably" wears jeans.

Why such hatred? Marine Le Pen promises that she can take the NF to a new level.
By abandoning her father's provocations and obsession with the past, by adopting
a more modern and moderate image, and ditching some socially conservative
positions, she believes that the NF can move beyond its powerful, baleful
presence on the margins of French politics. It can win and rule.

That appeals to many people. Marine is widely tipped to win the party leadership
in January. The opinion polls suggest she would take votes from President
Nicolas Sarkozy and come third in the first round of the presidential election
in 2012.

To others in the party, all talk of broadening and modernising the movement
sounds like heresy. Their badge of identity and pride is that they are permanent
outsiders and, at the same time, the only true insiders, standing firm against
the racio-cultural menaces facing France, Christianity and the West.

Mr Gollnisch, at his campaign meeting in Metz, distances himself from the
vicious personal attacks on his rival. No one accuses him of fomenting or
approving the demonising of Marine (which may not help him much in any case).
Marine Le Pen does, however, accuse him of reaching out to "zozos",
"provocateurs" and "anachronistic groups" who will lead the NF into an "endless
tunnel of "demonisation".

On the contrary, says Mr Gollnisch, he is the only man who can bring together
the big happy family of the French far right.

In Metz his speech is mostly about the past, pushing one by one the hot buttons
of racial and nationalist resentment: the "betrayal" of French settlers in
Algeria in the early 1960s; the "lies" about French "shame" in World War Two;
the misunderstood, civilising glories of the vanished, French global empire.

He also refers to what he sees as the twin fountainheads of Frenchness: Clovis
(the blonde, fifth-century uniter of Frankish tribes) and Rome (the mother of
Catholicsm). At every hot-button reference, the hundred or so Gollnisch
supporters, including the four year olds, applaud loudly.

Mr Gollnisch also pays tribute to his "noble" far-right allies in the European
parliament, including the British National Party and the "courageous" Nick
Griffin. Marine Le Pen, in an interview with The Independent in September,
distanced herself from the BNP. Her mission is, in a sense, to turn the National
Front into a kind of Gallic Ukip - a nationalist party that can penetrate the
middle classes and the mainstream.

Talking to The Independent after his speech, Mr Gollnisch made no apology for
praising Mr Griffin. "We stress the ethnic question less than the BNP but our
approaches are otherwise much the same," he said.

"Nick Griffin is a charming man, a courageous man, a very intelligent man. I am
a great admirer of Nick Griffin. If Marine Le Pen wishes to distance the Front
National from Nick Griffin and the BNP, then that shows the difference between
Marine and myself..."

It is probably wrong, or over-simple, to see Mr Gollnish as the "hardliner" and
Marine Le Pen as a "moderate" but his enemies, inside and outside the party,
point to his friendly relations with unashamedly xenophobic, anti-Semitic and
racist figures and groups. Mr Gollnisch is a professor of Japanese and oriental
culture and he is married to a Japanese woman. Is he also a racist?

"When Algerians were murdering French people in the 1950s because they didn't
want the French in Algeria, we were told that was normal," he said. "When I say
that there are too many Algerians in France, I am branded a racist and a
xenophobe.

"Xenophobia is normal. It is a common attitude all over the world. People are
wary of foreigners. They are scared of threats to their culture and way of life.
That doesn't make them racist, in the sense that they believe that one race is
superior. I have spent my whole life studying other cultures. My wife is
Japanese. But I believe that the French people, French traditions, French
culture should be dominant in France."

Jean-Marie Le Pen is supporting his daughter. The party machine is clearly on
Marine's side. On the NF website, you find a half-dozen large pictures of Marine
before you find one small one of Mr Gollnisch. His supporters are being hounded
out of party positions. Isn't this a rather "Third World" election?

Mr Gollnish does not disagree. "Yes, you are right, there is a disparity. There
is gap in the way that I am treated and the way that Marine is treated." He
shrugs. What worries him more, he says, is the disparity in coverage by the
French mainstream media. He is confident, all the same, that he can overcome
these handicaps and win in January.

"The numbers of people coming to my meetings, the fervour there, the number of
applications for party membership from people that we know support me... Events
are moving my way. I think there is a growing anxiety in the other camp."

But what of the other people in the restaurant? What do they have against
Marine, who is, after all, her father's daughter, and the publicly anointed
choice of the man who created the NF and led it for almost 40 years? It rapidly
emerges that Marine's unsurmountable handicap for some NF traditionalists is
that she is her father's daughter, not his son.

A young man with razor-short hair, who declined to give his name, said: "What we
need is a man. Un homme de poigne." (Literally a man with a firm grip.)

A group of other young men - short-hair, smartly dressed, severe faces, but, on
the whole, friendly - try to explain why they dislike Marine. They do not repeat
the ultra-extreme views expressed in Rivarol or on some far-right websites - at
least not in public - but their contempt for Marine is clear.

Pierre Jeannot, 30, an accountant, said: "I left the NF because, under Marine's
influence, it has been getting too soft. If Gollnisch wins, I will rejoin.
Marine wants to water down the party. She wants to make it acceptable,
politically correct. But what is the point of that? We want a party that will be
a trades union for the white French - for the French of French origin."

William Schmidt, 27, a bank worker, said: "We are far right and we want a party
that is not afraid of being called far right. We want a party that is not afraid
of being called racist just because it tells the truth. Marine wants to clean up
the party's image. Why? We warned years ago what mass immigration would do to
France. Now everyone sees that we were right. Why should we apologise?"

Andre Collin, 69, a retired lorry driver from near Metz, has been involved in
far-right politics since, as a soldier in Algeria, he felt betrayed by Charles
de Gaulle's decision to abandon "l'Algerie Française" in 1962.

"I have yet to decide how I will vote," he said. "Marine presents a more modern
face for the television. But is that what we need? I want someone with
experience, with integrity, someone who will stand by what we have always
represented: the only party which stands up for the real interests of French
people."

A senior NF renegade once described the party as "a coalition of losers". It was
he said, a loose - and mutually detesting - constellation of various tribes who
feel rejected or defeated by the modern world: the Vichy sympathisers; the
ex-Algerian colonists; the fundamentalist Catholics; the royalists; the diehard
anti-Europeans.

Floating around, and in and out, of the party, there are also several, more
bizarre, or disturbing, tribes: pagan white supremacists, neo-Nazis, diehard
anti-Semites. Overall, the spectrum of the NF stretches, in British terms, from
the right-wing of the Conservative Party to beyond the BNP.

Only the charisma and personality of Jean-Marie Le Pen has held the party
together for so long. Pieces have been dropping off for several years now (which
Mr Gollnisch promises to sew back on).

Marine Le Pen pledges to turn the NF into a winning party. The people in the
restaurant in Metz seemed to prefer to remain losers, unsullied by moderate or
mainstream approval.

Everything suggests that Marine Le Pen will win in January. She may go on to
make a high score in the first round of the presidential election in 2012,
weakening President Sarkozy's chance of re-election. In the longer term, even in
the medium term, it may be difficult for her to prevent the family business from
falling apart.

LE PEN FAMILY FORTUNES

* Marine Le Pen - if she wins the National Front party leadership - is predicted
to take up to 14 per cent of the vote in the first round of the French
presidential elections in 2012. This is a much stronger showing than the
equivalent position of her father, Jean-Marie, 18 months before the election of
2002: an election in which he shocked the world by taking second place and
reaching the second round run-off with 16.86 per cent of the vote.

Since then the NF score in national elections has slumped. So have its finances,
dependent partly on national subsidies based on election results. In the 2004
European elections, the NF scored only 9.8 per cent. In the 2007 presidential
election - won by Nicolas Sarkozy - Mr Le Pen attracted only 10.4 per cent in
the first round, his worst result since 1988.

In the 2009 European elections the NF took just 6.34 per cent of the vote. In
the first round of the French regional elections earlier this year the party,
fighting on a more moderate platform largely shaped by Marine Le Pen, was back
up to 11.42 per cent of the nationwide vote in the first round.

LOAD-DATE: December 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 30, 2010 Tuesday 8:03 AM GMT

What drives a normal man into politics?

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 578 words


Politicians always claim not to be politicians, but Nigel Farage has a point.
His memoirs - if that's the right word for a book published mid-stream - are
quite unlike any you've read: artless, breathless, occasionally crude,
completely plausible and utterly readable.

They describe the transformation of a typical Home Counties boy into the leader
of the party that came second at the last European election. When I say "typical
Home Counties boy", I suppose I mean the type often encountered in Betjeman's
verse and in P G Wodehouse's golfing short stories (Wodehouse was, like Farage,
a cricket-obsessed old boy of Dulwich). Nigel's main interests in life were -
and perhaps still are, underneath everything - pubs, golf, women, cricket and
fishing. The type is easily satirised; but it has produced its great men, Denis
Thatcher foremost among them.

Nigel Farage is Denis Thatcher on speed. On the night he was elected to the
European Parliament, the first question from our local TV man, Phil Hornby, was:
"So, from now on it's going to be endless lunches, lavish dinners, champagne
receptions: will you be corrupted by the lifestyle?"

"No," replied Nigel amiably, "I've always lived like that".

This manner isn't to everyone's taste; but its authenticity is indubitable.
Nigel is equally authentic when, in his book, he sets out to answer the central
question of his life. How did an eighteen-year-old with a handicap of six and a
job in the City become a full-time anti-EU campaigner? I'll let him answer in
his own words: "I did not enter politics out of philanthropy but rather as an
extension of my own annoyance at having inherited freedoms infringed by
power-crazed idiots".

Nigel has demotic appeal. In a comment that found its way back to me, he once
told someone: "Dan can talk to broadsheets, I can talk to tabloids". It's true,
and his is the greater gift: it's no coincidence that tabloid writers are often
paid twice as much as their broadsheet equivalents. Like most people with the
popular touch, Nigel is savvier than you realise at first. His life story pulses
with the ideas that actuate him: libertarianism, British particularism and (in
the sense of championing the people against the elites) populism. The book is
surprisingly full of unobtrusive literary and historical allusions. Its title,
"Fighting Bull", refers (as well as the obvious) to the rape of Europa by Zeus:
Nigel has a fancy metaphor about Europe's elites shafting their peoples which,
of course, neatly brings the reference back to vulgar territory.

Earthy, Hogarthian and utterly honest, the book reflects its author. It should
appeal to non-UKIP voters as much as to Nigel's partisans. Indeed, the author is
as aware as anyone of the cranky, captious, cussed nature of his party: three of
his four predecessors ended up falling out with their activists (not counting
Kilroy who failed to become leader). Yet these activistsare admirable, too, in
their way; heroic, almost. Nigel recalls the furious arguments, back in the
mid-1990s, about whether or not UKIP MEPs ought to take up their seats if
elected. In those days, when UKIP was holding its AGMs in the upstairs rooms of
pubs, the question would have struck any sane observer as academic. But, against
all the odds, it turned out not to be academic at all.

That this should be so is overwhelmingly due to UKIP's present leader. I wonder
whether his party realises how much it owes him. Anyway, buy the book: you'll
enjoy it.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 29, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

QUOTE OF THE DAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 38 words


Quote of the day 'By leaving the european union we could ditch the failed ideas
of the 20th century and embrace the 21st with hope and confidence' UKIP lEADER
NIGEl FARAGE ARGUES THE CASE FoR lEAVING THE EU IN ToDAy'S DAIly ExPRESS

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 29, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Why we would all be Better Off Out of this chaos;
OPINION

BYLINE: NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 373 words


IS it time to leave the European Union, would we be Better Off Out? As the Daily
Express courageously insists: Of course we would.

Over the last 20 years I have been promoting the very simple idea that our
country would be doing itself, its people and the rest of the world a great
favour by returning to self-governance.

And this is why.

We would be Better Off Out financially by simply not paying the £48million a day
to the European Union. This would be money better spent at home with priorities
set by our elected representatives, rather than returned in part with European
conditions.

We would be Better Off Out financially minus the dead weight of regulation that
makes the life of our businesspeople a misery.

From the small businesses - the economic lifeblood of our towns and villages -
to the gleaming towers of the City, all are hidebound by EU regulations.

We would be Better Off Out politically.

We could regain our democracy and the liberty to hire and fire the politicians
who make our laws.

Today, with about 75 per cent of our laws being made in Brussels, that is just
impossible. Millions of Britons have fought for that freedom and the Express is
joining that noble fight.

We would be Better Off Out as we would regain the self confidence as a nation.
We would no longer have laws dictated to us by those who know us little and care
about us less. We would no longer be ordered to give prisoners the vote by
foreign judges.

We would once again be a nation that could hold its head high, govern ourselves
and trade with the rest of the world.

By leaving the European Union we could ditch the failed ideas of the 20th
century and embrace the 21st with hope and confidence.

We are a trading nation, ready to take our place in the competitive trading
world.

This should not faze us, it should enthuse us. We have the ingenuity, the people
and, if we had our freedom, we would have success.

I welcome the few isolated figures in the House of Commons and elsewhere, from
the Conservatives and Labour who share this view.

But I must point out that only UKIP has steadfastly held the line which the
Daily Express is now championing.

It will be a long hard fight.

But it will be won.

'The £48m a day we give Brussels would be better spent at home'

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 29, 2010 Monday
                                Scottish Edition

Why we would all be Better Off Out of this chaos

BYLINE: BY NIGEL FARAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 363  words


IS it time to leave the European Union? Would we be Better Off Out?

As the Daily Express courageously insists: Of course we would.

Over the last 20 years I have been promoting the very simple idea that our
country would be doing itself, its people and the rest of the world a great
favour by returning to self-governance.

And this is why.

We would be Better Off Out financially by simply not paying the GBP 48million a
day to the European Union. This would be money better spent at home with
priorities set by our elected representatives, rather than returned in part with
European conditions.

We would be Better Off Out financially minus the dead weight of regulation that
makes the life of our businesspeople a misery.

From the small businesses - the economic lifeblood of our towns and villages -
to the gleaming towers of the City, all are hidebound by EU regulations.

We would be Better Off Out politically.

We could regain our democracy and the liberty to hire and fire the politicians
who make our laws.

Today, with about 75 per cent of our laws being made in Brussels, that is just
impossible. Millions of Britons have fought for that freedom and the Express is
joining that noble fight.

We would be Better Off Out as we would regain the self confidence as a nation.
We would no longer have laws dictated to us by those who know us little and care
about us less. We would no longer be ordered to give prisoners the vote by
foreign judges.

We would once again be a nation that could hold its head high, govern ourselves
and trade with the rest of the world.

By leaving the European Union we could ditch the failed ideas of the 20th
century and embrace the 21st with hope and confidence.

We are a trading nation, ready to take our place in the competitive trading
world.

This should not faze us, it should enthuse us. We have the ingenuity, the people
and, if we had our freedom, we would have success.

I welcome the few isolated figures in the House of Commons and elsewhere, from
the Conservatives and Labour who share this view.

But I must point out that only UKIP has steadfastly held the line which the
Daily Express is now championing.

It will be a long hard fight.

But it will be won.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 29, 2010 Monday 7:00 AM GMT

Why does John Major support coalition politics? I suspect it's resentment of the
true Tories who opposed his Maastricht surrender

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1078 words


I gave up trying to understand John Major a good many years ago. Having decided
not to run in the leadership election after Howe, Heseltine and the other
Europhiles had brought down Margaret Thatcher, Isupported him against Michael
Heseltine, serving on his campaign team.For some time after he became Prime
Minister he was kind enough to invite me from time to timeto No 10 for
breakfast. Eventually we had a substantial disagreement.It would not be fair to
say more than that, because there hasto be an understanding that such
conversations are undertaken on a basis of confidentiality. I will say only that
when I returned home I observed to my wife that John Major simply could not
understand that what he called "a practical matter" I regarded as a matter of
principle.We have scarcely spoken since.

Nor would I comment on his account of whether it was Margaret Thatcher or him
who was wedded to the ERM.Nor even on his view that unless one has a particular
enemy in mind there is perhaps no point in having a nuclear deterrent.

What he said about the desirability of coalition government isanother matter.A
Downing Street spokesman tellsus that collective responsibility would not be an
issue shouldMinisters from the junior party in the Coalitionabstain on the issue
of university fees. Presumably if a Conservative did so, that would be grounds
for dismissal.

As Prime Minister, Major referred tobackbench Conservative MPs who opposed the
Maastricht Treaty (for which he had no mandate)as "bastards".Now it seems he is
an admirer of coalition politics in which ministersare entitled to abstain on
measures which they do not like.

It used to be that once the menu wasagreed around the Cabinet Table Ministers
were committed to dinetable d'hte, and were not free to go  la carte.

Now it seemssome Ministers at leastcan pick and choose to support, orundermine,
their Cabinet colleagues.

I suspect that at the root of Sir John Major's admiration of coalition
government is a rankling resentment of the true Conservatives who opposed his
surrender at Maastricht.That is sad rather than important. However, ifhe
wasflying a kite for the Prime Minister, who dislikes the Conservatives in the
Conservative Partyas much as John Major did, that is more worrying.I strongly
suspect that Mr Cameron wants to make his coalition into a merger between"centre
ground" conservatives and "centre ground" Lib Dems.

Thatwould leave manyConservative voters with no choice but to support UKIP and
many Lib Dem voters no choice but to support Labour.

I am not sure that is smart politics.

...

Let me confess.Reading your comments can be pretty hard going at times and I
seldom get beyond the first 300or 350 or so.And together with trying to pick out
at least some to comment on, it takes me longer than writing a blog, but it can
be well worthwhile.It certainly was on the subject of Turkey and the EU, where
it was clear that some of you, not least ejderha, know a good deal about that
country.There were some terrific exchanges about disputed quotations and all in
all it was hard not to recollect those words of F E Smith, who observed of a
Judge that he might be "if not wiser, at least better informed"(and I hope I
have got that right).

Overall, I was impressed by the way quotations from Sir Winston and young
Winston alike and many others were checked and sources carefully examined.

However, I fear that Guest, enasharples, ooopiop, peedoffscot and some others
did not read what I wrote, or I did not make myself sufficiently clear.Of course
I am against the admission of Turkey to the EU. The problems caused by
immigration would be terrible and as bohemond pointed out it would give us a
long leaky frontier with Syria, Iran and Iraq.I agree with londoner 432 and
withjock mcsporran, Simxn ,dougie, jimbo2010 and others that the admission of
Turkey would damage the EU, perhaps even hasten its downfall. As Mark wrote it
would be disastrousfor both Turkey and Europe, not just the EU.However that is
not a good reason for wishing it on our friends on the continent, and even if we
were not ourselves still in the EU, there is no profit for us in seeing civil
strife and economic problems afflicting our continent.Nor is there any good
reason to wish misfortune upon Turkey.As Minnie E observed, Turkey (like
Britainwould be) is better off out. Forcing our values down the throats of the
Turks would not make them any more pro-Western, and membership would not help
them economically. All in all it would, I think, encourage militant Islamism -
which cannotbe in our interest.

There were arguments over just who does want Turkey to join.I think bersher is
right to say that the US State Department does (but they favour a united
Ireland, too). As ravenscar, omargourd and others said, the Turks probably do
not, nor do the Germans or French, whatever their governments may say.

I found pumpernickel's post on Germany and 221gonikon22's comments on events in
Turkeymost interesting, whilstkeatzey's vision of a post-EU Europe (which could
embrace Turkey) not that far from my own thoughts.

I am sorry that the lennoxman gave in to another bout of self-pitying drivel.I
spent a lot of time trying to save shipyards, including some in Scotland, but in
the face of unions which prevented delivery of ships on time and on cost there
was not much that I could do.And when Nissan came to Britain (a deal which I
negotiated)it was their decision, not mine, to go tothe North East of England
rather than Scotland.Neither Thatcher, nor I, closed viable businesses.But I
will offer a challengeto him.Can he find any record anywhereof me uttering what
he calls my mantra, "get on your bike"?If so he could post it here.If not, he
could be quiet for a bit.

As usual there were a number of posts criticising me for remaining in the
Conservative Party and not defecting to UKIP.That is a matter for my judgment.

What I can do, and what I do do, is to campaign to get us out of the EU. It is
no good saying that Cameron has too tight a hold on the party for its grassroots
members to have a chance to change things.If there were enough of you, you could
take over the party.I respect those who are working in UKIP, but I would hope
that you would respect us Eurosceptics in the Tory Party too. Finally, I should
thank 3wave for his kind words, and those of frostfire too;I think blogging has
given me a new lease of life (although my wife may not quite agree with that)
and I amglad to be a Telegraph blogger.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                               November 28, 2010
                                 First Edition

quote of the week 'So long, paedophiles.

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 1144 words



HIGHLIGHT:  See you tomorrow!' An enraged French President Nicolas Sarkozy to
the Elysee Palace press corps. death of the week Bernard Matthews The turkey
tycoon died last Thursday (Thanksgiving in the US), aged 80. Matthews, famed for
his "bootiful" catchphrase in TV adverts, began his business more than 60 years
ago with 20 eggs and a second-hand incubator. headline of the week 'Useless
Gobshites' The Irish Daily Star's front-page verdict on the performance of the
country's government and its bailout with loans from the European Bank, the IMF,
and the British Treasury. The Odd spot 29 April ... is the date Kate (below) and
Wills are to be wed. It is also the date, in 1945, when Adolf Hitler married Eva
Braun as the Red Army closed in on his Berlin bunker. The couple killed
themselves the following day. Tantrum of the week Still in it together Samantha
Cameron allegedly threw a hissy fit when told she had to cancel a luxury
Christmas break in Thailand because of her hubbie's fears that it would got down
badly with voters shivering through an austerity winter. Injury of the week
Obama gets elbow President Barack Obama had to have 12 stitches after he was
elbowed in the mouth during a basketball game. His assailant's fate is unknown.
Trend of the week Up for the cups Wolves became the first football club to
launch its own lingerie range. The bras, knickers, and stockings are gold and
black and bear the club logo.


Reality TV..

Gran Guignol

As this year's X Factor nears its climax, it may have found its unlikeliest star
yet. Sheila Vogel, the 81-year-old gran of contestant Katie Waissel, initiated a
tabloid feeding frenzy last week after she was revealed to be a £250-an-hour
prostitute. Proving that a hunger for fame runs in the family, she promptly set
about winning over Simon Cowell. "He is welcome [to come over] any time," she
cooed.

lottery..

Payback time

The curse of the lottery struck again last week after the EuroMillions winner
Nigel Page was forced to pay £2m of his £56m win to the ex-wife who walked out
on him 10 years ago. To add insult to injury, Page had already offered
43-year-old Wendy £1m before she set lawyers on to him, initially making a claim
for £8m.

Courts..

Foodie felony

London's gastronomic great and good can rest easy again after Latvian student
Janis Nords was banned from six of the capital's most exclusive postcodes
following his spree of "eat-and-runs" from top restaurants. He was also asked to
return to court in three weeks' time to explain how he would pay back the £5,880
in unpaid bills. Now there's a lot of washing-up to do ....

radio..

Model presenter

Lest anyone doubt the BBC's commitment to nurturing broadcasting talent, it was
announced that the producers of Radio 4's Today programme had approached Katie
Price (aka Jordan) to guest edit. It may have been a shameless PR stunt, but it
now seems she has lost out to actor Colin Firth, and has ended the week tweeting
her fears for ex-hubbie Peter Andre after he was struck by a mystery illness.

sex..

England expects

Women have suspected it for ages, but now it's official - British men are
rubbish in bed. A survey of 4,500 chaps, conducted by Boots the chemist, found
that half the men in its sample group had suffered from impotence at one time or
another, while as many as 68 per cent revealed they had experienced the problem
of premature ejaculation.

blockbusters..

Positively vampiric

Nostalgia sure moves fast these days - too fast for Joss Whedon, creator of
Buffy the Vampire Slayer, who greeted the news that a new film adaptation is in
the works by complaining: "This is a sad, sad reflection on our times, when
people must feed off the carcasses of beloved stories from their youths - just
because they can't think of an original idea of their own."

fashion..

A tale of two dresses

Suddenly there's a Kate Middleton frock to suit every pocket, from Tesco's
sold-out £16 knock-off of that peacock-blue engagement dress to this week's
£100,000 valuation of the "see-through" gown that famously caught Prince
William's eye when modelled by Kate at a university fashion show. Can a full-on
revival of Sloane Ranger style be far behind?

relationships..

Diva fever

The complex love life of Charlotte Church, right, took a further twist last week
when she was snapped in London arguing with Jonathan Powell, just seven months
since her split with rugby hunk Gavin Henson. More source material for another
"break-up" album, perhaps?

auction..

Old Mac

One of the first Apple home computers was sold to an Italian collector for
£133,250 at Christie's last Tuesday. For the price of 310 iPads, Marco Boglione
got something that looked very much like an antiquated circuit board (in 1976
the Apple I cost $666.66 without a screen, body or keyboard).

patriotism..

Raising the flag

Gold medals to the Singaporean water polo team for adding to the gaiety of
nations at the Asian Games in China with this patriotic use of their national
flag. Sadly, not everyone agreed, and Singapore's government has rebuked the
team for not treating the flag with "dignity". But why?

dance..

Giant steps

Dancing with Cheryl Cole's supposed boyfriend Derek Hough, and looking
completely different but not a day older than she did in her heyday in 1987, it
was perhaps inevitable that 50-year-old Jennifer Grey, above, won America's
Dancing with the Stars. Nobody puts Jenny in a corner.

internet..

Phantom pregnancy

The Google Street View image of a woman giving birth on a Berlin pavement has
been revealed to be a fake. The entire scene, complete with wet towels and a man
calling an ambulance, was photo-edited into a contraction of the truth.

royalty.. Transcending the Gulf

HRH slipped off her slippers this week (gasp!) - as custom demands - on entering
Abu Dhabi's Sheikh Zayed Grand Mosque. Good idea, Queenie: play it right and
perhaps a few oil-rich gents could be persuaded to give a little something
towards the forthcoming nuptials.

Food..

One of a rind

Napoleon, Sarkozy, Depardieu, Aznavour ... your cheeses took a hell of a
beating. Forget your Roqueforts and your Bleu d'Auvergne: Cornish Blue has
beaten 2,600 entries to be named the planet's best fromage at the World Cheese
Awards. Let's milk it for all it's worth.

europe..

Gaffe of the week

Goose-stepping Nazis, "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Führer!", "undemocratic
fascist". Just what did Ukip's Godfrey Bloom think he was doing by denouncing
the German MEP Martin Schultz in these terms for promoting solidarity in the
face of the euro crisis? That Fawlty Towers script wasn't a template for dealing
with our European partners, you know.

culture ..

What a Neanderthal!

The Culture minister Ed Vaizey had his wrist slapped after casually picking up a
fragile 3,000-year-old Bronze Age bracelet at the British Museum - which should
never be handled without gloves. An unimpressed museum official thrust a pair of
plastic ones the minister's way, as Vaizey blushed over his mishandling of the
situation.

gems..

Mother of all pearls

It weighs six tons, is five foot tall, and costs a hefty £88m: an enormous green
"pearl" has gone on show in Hainan, southern China. The gem took three years to
be ground down to its spherical shape. Mostly formed of a fluorite mineral, the
luminous pearl even glows in the dark.

CHURCH..

Bish boshed

The Bishop of Willesden, Pete Broadbent, was reprimanded for making offensive
comments about the royal wedding on Facebook. Complaining about the "nauseating
tosh" that surrounds the event and predicting that the union would last only
seven years is not, apparently, the Church's official line. The bishop was duly
suspended.

fishing..

What a catch

A 2.5-metre halibut, weighing 34st, broke all records when it was caught in
Bolungarvik in Iceland. It took 70-year-old Gunther Hansel more than two hours
to reel in, and required the help of four other men to hoist it on board. The
beast would carve up into around a thousand fish suppers.

POP IDOL..

Bachelor boy

Would you really want to wake up on 1 January with the perma-tanned,
pearly-toothed features of Sir Cliff Richard, below, beaming down at you?
Apparently, much of Britain would: 1.5 million Cliff calendars for 2011 have
been shifted on Amazon already, out-selling young whippersnappers such as JLS
and Justin Bieber. You'll have to wait for September for a glimpse of his chest
hair.

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: XT


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday

'NICK CLEGG? HE'S SOLD OUT ON HIS PLEDGE'

BYLINE: By JEFF PRESTRIDGE

LENGTH: 525 words


PRESSURE on the Government to improve its £1.5 billion compensation offer to
victims of maladministration at mutual insurer Equitable Life has intensified.
It follows a withering attack on the compensation package in the Lords last week
by Lord Willoughby de Broke, who accused the Government of 'dressing up a bare
half-loaf as a full and scented loaf of bread'.

Willoughby, of the UK Independence Party, spoke in a debate on the Equitable
Life (Payments) Bill in Parliament on Wednesday night. If enacted, the Bill
would pave the way for £1.5Êbillion of compensation Ð £1Êbillion in this
Parliament and the remainder in the next.

He was particularly scathing of the allocation of the £1.5 billion, with 37,000
post-1992 with-profits annuitants receiving 100 per cent compensation Ð but
earlier annuitants getting nothing.

A further million policyholders will get compensation equivalent to a paltry 20
per cent of the losses due to the failure of past Governments and regulators to
monitor the mutual effectively, forcing it to close to new business in 2000.

Of the Government's decision not to compensate pre-1992 with-profits annuitants,
Willoughby said: 'Like the post-1992 annuitants, they were trapped as well.

'They were effectively in a house on fire with no escape. The post-1992 trapped
annuitants are being offered an escape but the pre-1992 people are not.'

The Government accepts that with-profits annuitants bore the full brunt of
maladministration at Equitable Life because of their inability to escape the
mutual's meltdown (once an annuity is bought it cannot be exchanged).

But it says early with-profits annuitants were 'over-bonused' by Equitable Life
in the early years from 1987 to 1992. These over-bonuses, it claims, more than
made up for losses resulting from maladministration. As a result, compensation
should not be paid.

Tony Fisk, 79, a retired businessman from Southend-on-Sea, Essex, will receive
no compensation as he has been deemed an early with-profits annuitant. He
disputes the Government's version of events.

'The Treasury Secretary has said in the Commons that between 1989 and 2002 early
with-profits annuitants received an income uplift of 136 per cent, which more
than compensated for subsequent losses,' he says, 'but those figures bear no
resemblance to mine. I saw my annual income rise 11 per cent from 1989 to 2002,
but since then it's fallen 60 per cent. I feel I'm being deprived of
compensation as a result of false statistics.'

Susan Wood, 63, a retired businesswoman who ran a company training young people,
has two level annuities that pay £3,600 a year and will be eligible for a small
amount of compensation.

She says the £1.5 billion package on offer is 'disappointing' and is also
annoyed with her MP, Deputy Prime Minister Nick Clegg.

Just before the General Election, Clegg, MP for Sheffield Hallam, said he would
vote for 'proper compensation' for Equitable Life victims.

'What's on offer is not proper compensation,' says Susan. 'He has sold out on
this issue.'

A spokesman for Nick Clegg said: 'The Government has provided a fair balance
between the interests of policyholders and those of taxpayers.'

LOAD-DATE: November 27, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The costs and benefits of being independent of the EU;
To the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 528 words


SIR - Ian Brown's statement (Letters, November 14) that there is no benefit from
EU membership "which could not be obtained free of charge from the European Free
Trade Association" is nonsense.

EFTA countries pay heavily in order to trade with EU states, as they are
required to contribute substantial funds towards social and economic cohesion
within the EU's internal market. In the five years up to 2009, Norway paid £800
million to the EU, yet had none of the direct influence on European legislation
that EU members have.

While Britain takes part in preparing all the legal instruments that make the EU
single market work, and influences how the budget is spent, Norway just has to
accept the results.

As its prime minister, Jens Stoltenberg, has admitted: "In more and more areas
we realise we are not participating in decisions which are important for
Norway... [this is] the consequence of us saying no to ... the EU."

The effects of Britain's withdrawal from the EU would be devastating on its
trade, inward investment, employment and political influence within Europe and
across the world.

David Woodhead Leatherhead, Surrey

SIR - It is time for an assessment of the economic merits of EU membership. It
doesn't just cost Britain the £48 million that we pay the EU every day in cash.
We get some of that back, but only to spend on things which Brussels tells us we
are allowed to spend it on. Once the money is spent, the EU then triumphantly
claims such projects have been paid for with "EU funding".

However, this supposed EU funding amounts to British pounds that Brussels
controls. It also costs us unknown billions in extra costs on business through
the dead weight of regulation.

In 2006 Günter Verheugen, a European Commissioner, admitted that the cost of
regulation added 600 billion euros to the cost of doing business in Europe. At a
conservative estimate that amounts to over £60 billion to Britain alone.

That was four years ago. Thousands of regulations have been introduced since
then.

Michael Heaver Norwich

SIR - Is Christopher Booker (November 21) certain the United States of Europe
does not exist already?

On my packet of ground pepper, it says "Produced in the EU".

Roger Boyce Shoreham, Kent

SIR - Your headline "Hague raises fears that the euro could collapse" (report,
November 21) should surely read "raises hopes".

D. W. Laker Stafford

SIR - The Coalition will never parody Ukip by producing euro sign badges
(Letters, November 21), because this would constitute a forthright admission of
its Europhilia.

Instead, the Lib Dems will insist that they're happy to sit tight on the
European question, while the Conservatives will continue to plead their undying
Euroscepticism, when in reality, both party leaderships are selling the nation's
sovereignty, and our fundamental liberties, further and further down the Seine
and Rhine.

Matt Showering Chippenham, Wiltshire

SIR - Politicians know that voters oppose their European policies not because of
better arguments but because the issues involved are too complex for the public
to understand.

So why doesn't the Government equip the nation to take an informed decision on
these key matters?

Edward Bryant Paris

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               November 28, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

MEP's 10,000 mile trip home...;
EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Ben Borland

SECTION: NEWS; EXCLUSIVE; Pg. 8,9

LENGTH: 276 words


BRITISH taxpayers are footing the bill for a Euro MP from an island in the South
Pacific, 10,000 miles away from Brussels.

Tiny New Caledonia is largely independent but is still a French colony, giving
its 249,000 citizens the right to vote in EU elections.

Salary and expenses for their MEP Maurice Ponga include business class flights
between his home and Strasbourg.

Mr Ponga is one of three MEPs from French overseas territories.

The others are Elie Hoarau, a communist from the Indian Ocean island of Reunion,
and Patrice Tirolien, a socialist from Guadeloupe. However, New Caledonia does
not use the Euro and still has its own flag. Mr Ponga travels to Europe at least
four times a year, costing £6,000 a time with Air France.

Lord Christopher Monckton, Deputy Leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "It
is outrageous that this man votes on our laws when his Pacific island has more
independence from the EU than Britain does."

Britain has only one overseas territory in the EU, Gibraltar, which is
represented by MEPs from South West England. Last night, a senior British MEP
said: "France stretches credibility when it comes to how they define overseas
territories.

"Why shouldn't the Falklands have a representative under this system?" New
Caledonia lies 750 miles east of Cairns, north Australia. Mr Ponga, 63, was a
teacher before going into politics in 1996.

Since being elected in May last year, he has made three speeches and asked one
written question.

Dominique Roberts, from the Paris Office of the European Parliament, said: "It
might seem stupid, but to us it is normal. New Caledonia is still part of
France, people there are French voters."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               November 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Gravy train MEP joins jet set and flies 10,000 miles to take his seat;
SCOTTISH EXCLUSIVE

BYLINE: Ben Borland

SECTION: NEWS; EXCLUSIVE; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 598 words


BRITISH taxpayers are footing the bill for a Euro MP who represents a remote
island paradise in the South Pacific, 10,000 miles away from Brussels, the
Sunday Express can reveal.

Tiny New Caledonia is largely independent but still retains its status as a
French overseas colony, giving its 249,000 citizens the right to vote in
European elections.

They are represented by conservative Maurice Ponga, who receives a generous
MEP's salary and expenses, including business class flights between his home and
the parliament.

Mr Ponga is one of three MEPs representing overseas departments and territories
of France. The others are Elie Hoaroa, a communist from the Indian Ocean island
of Reunion, and Patrice Tirolien, a socialist from the Caribbean nation of
Guadeloupe.

However, unlike most French overseas territories, New Caledonia does not use the
euro, has its own national flag and is largely autonomous from Paris.

The Sunday Express understands that Mr Ponga travels between Europe and the
South Pacific at least four times a year. A return trip from Brussels with Air
France costs around £6,000.

One European Parliament source said: "He will receive a fixed sum rather than
per kilometre expenses, but it will be generous enough to fly business class to
and from New Caledonia as often as he likes."

Christopher Monckton, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party and spokesman
on Scottish affairs, described the situation as "outrageous".

"Some might say it is hard to get to Brussels or Strasbourg from Lerwick or
Mull, but that is not a patch on Ponga," he said. "His travel bill alone from
the Pacific must be astronomical."

Lord Monckton, who lives in Rannoch, Perthshire, and was a policy advisor to
Margaret Thatcher, added: "It is outrageous that this man votes on our laws when
his island has more independence from the EU than Britain does."

Britain has only one overseas territory within the EU, Gibraltar, which is
represented by MEPs from South West England.

Last night, one senior British MEP told the Sunday Express: "France stretches
credibility when it comes to how they define their overseas territories. Why
shouldn't the Falklands have a representative under this system? "Even places
like the Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey don't have MEPs, yet they have to obey
EU laws unlike places like Guadeloupe and New Caledonia.

"It makes a nonsense of the whole geographic question on accession to the
European Union and shows there are fundamental flaws."

New Caledonia, which lies 750 miles east of Cairns in northern Australia, was
given its name by Captain James Cook. It was seized by France in 1853 and was a
prison colony until as recently as 1922.

Today it is a popular holiday destination, where tourists can scuba-dive in the
world's largest coral lagoon. Visitors have described the atmosphere as "more
French than France" but, in reality, trade, taxes, employment law, health and
hygiene are devolved to the island's congress. More powers are set to be handed
over and the congress has also passed Bills to override French and European
laws.

Mr Ponga, 63, was a primary school teacher and education authority worker before
becoming a politician in 1996.

Since being elected to Brussels in May last year, he has made three speeches and
asked one written question. He has also travelled the world as a member of the
EU Development Committee, visiting New York, Africa and Tenerife during 2010.

Dominique Roberts, from the Paris Office of the European Parliament, said: "It
might seem illogical to you but New Caledonia is still part of France, its
people are French voters."

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: OUR MAN OVERSEAS: MEP Maurice Ponga represents the French colony of New
Caledonia
LAP OF LUXURY: Island paradise of New Caledonia in the South Pacific comes under
the European Parliament in Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                               November 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Even Germans love EU attack

BYLINE: Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 238 words


UK INDEPENDENCE Party leader Nigel Farage has become a Europe-wide internet
sensation again with his latest attack on Brussels bureaucrats.

His speech to the European Parliament last week has been viewed 200,000 times on
YouTube and has been translated into German.

Addressing EU President Herman van Rompuy Mr Farage said: "You've been in office
for one year and in that time the whole edifice is beginning to crumble, there's
chaos and the money's running out. I should thank you. You should be the pin-up
boy of the eurosceptic movement.

"Your fanaticism is out in the open. You talked about the fact that it was a lie
to say the nation state could exist in the 21st century globalised world.

"Well, that may well be true in the case of Belgium, which hasn't had a
government for six months, but for the rest of us, people are saying we don't
want that flag, we don't want the anthem, we don't want this political class -
we want the whole thing consigned to the dustbin of history."

The Ukip leader then turned on Economic Commissioner Olli Rehn for suggesting
that Ireland delay any general election until its budget had approved.

"Who the hell do you think you people are?" he said. "You are very, very
dangerous people. Your obsession with creating this Euro state means you are
happy to destroy democracy."

Mr Farage's previous outburst last February attracted almost 600,000 views on
YouTube and resulted in an official reprimand.

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

All hail the return of American right's political satirist in chief;
Fatherhood and a bout of cancer have mellowed PJ O'Rourke, but a new polemic
shows his wit is just as savage, writes Camilla Long

BYLINE: Camilla Long

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1097 words


Oh Lord, don't tell me they've sent me to interview malodorous rightwing
blobfish Nigel Farage again. The small, leathery man puffing on a fat Cohiba
outside a quiet London hotel certainly looks a bit like Farage - loud pinstripe
suit, razzy cufflinks, billowing mackintosh.

"Wanna suck on this?" he grins, offering the cigar. Of course as soon as he
abandons the half-finished butt on a park bench "for later", whips off his
jacket and gets down to business, any similarities between the fox-smooth
American satirist PJ O'Rourke and the boggle-eyed UKIP dunderhead evaporate.

Still, he looks pretty flash in a golf-club blazer on the cover of his new book,
Don't Vote: It Just Encourages the Bastards, a typically witty attack on "the
amount of bullshit, horseshit and chickenshit involved in politics", he says.
After "40 years of writing about the practice of politics", he decided to embark
on some theory instead, specifically, why "politics is a vulgar f******
subject". The result is a rather dark, apocalyptic rant against the whole damn
system, from Barack Obama down.

The president has been "a victim of promise", says O'Rourke. At 63, he is still
slick, roguish, natty, clear blue eyes only slightly milky from years of smoke
and scotch and driving fast, with "half a bottle of Chivas in the bag with a
gram of coke up your nose, and a teenage lovely pulling off her tube top in the
next seat". Although really he hasn't "been off my head for yonks", he sighs
wistfully. "I used to have vices that might actually destroy society."

By contrast, Obama is a pencilpushing square, initially "the cool, sexy choice;
a handsome young man with an attractive family; by American standards, a good
public speaker - although American standards are deadly low, so he's basically
good at reading the Autocue", he says. "But actually, he turned out to be boring
and rather stubborn, doctrinaire, kind of old Labour, intent on pushing through
a legislative agenda too strong for the public taste: a huge disappointment."

As for Sarah Palin, the idea that the hokey-pokey football-team wet dream is now
the right's hottest option fills him with utter rage. As the original sexy
Republican, O'Rourke is clearly well placed to judge: his snippy, snappy comical
essays in magazines such as Rolling Stone and National Lampoon led to mainstream
political bestsellers such as Republican Party Reptile and Parliament of Whores,
which sold well outside the US too.

"Sarah Palin doesn't even speak in whole sentences," he gasps now. He says she's
more hooked on her "huntin' and fishin' and blueberryin'" reality TV programme
than she ever was of being governor of Alaska, the job she resigned last year.
The real problem with someone like Palin, however, is that "Sarah has always
been about Sarah. Overweening ambition is the key."

But isn't that true of all politicians? He laughs. "They're meant to be better
at hiding it."

Conservatism, says O'Rourke, "is a hard sell. You're going to the electorate and
saying, 'I can do less for you.' It takes a lot of charm and intellectual
substance to make that sale. Margaret Thatcher had the intellectual substance
and a little of that charm. Reagan had the charm and, as we find out from his
letters, a good deal more intellectual throwaway".

Palin "doesn't have the gravitas or the charm".

What the Republican party could really do with is "someone who looked like Sarah
Palin but spoke like Ronald Reagan", he says. "A gorgeous black woman would be
10 out of 10." He thinks. "A combination of Ronald Reagan and Michelle Obama
would be perfect ..." Ultimately, though, politicians need to get out of our
faces altogether.

In the book, he argues for the reduction of big government, the expansion of the
free market, devolution of power to more local, smallscale initiatives - it's an
archly libertarian philosophy that he is a little disappointed has not caused a
bit more controversy.

Certainly not like the good old days, when he slapped up everyone from Bill
Clinton to Al Gore, attacking Germans and Arabs, Poles, and the French - "a
smallish, monkey-looking bunch and not dressed any better, on average, than the
citizens of Baltimore", he wrote in Holidays in Hell.

His most controversial moment came in South Korea, at a rally for the country's
future president Kim Dae-jung. "Half a million people had turned up to this
rally," he says, "and down at the front was this young man in a white ski coat,
carrying a sign saying Kim Dae-jung for president of the universe. So he pulls
off his white ski jacket, bites off the tip off his little finger, and writes
the Korean characters for Kim Dae-jung on the back of his jacket in blood."

He pauses. "I wrote, 'I've been these 15 years a foreign correspondent and this
is the first time I'd seen anything that was indeed f****** foreign.' " He was
banned from South Korea and received death threats. The editor of Rolling Stone
was forced to apologise publicly, and O'Rourke says that when he spoke at Brown
University, he had to be escorted to and from the stage by the football team in
case he was attacked by the college's ethnic minority support groups. At the
time he was married to the black socialite Amy Lumet, daughter of Sidney, and
"she was standing up, really mad, 'You calling my husband a racist?'" He's a
professional contrarian, a numb-nutted provocateur who took a long time settling
down, becoming a father at 50. Tomorrow he's rushing back to New Hampshire
because his eldest daughter - he has three children with his second wife,
Christina - is about to turn 13, "and I don't want to go to Dad jail".

He admits to spoiling his kids a bit, but is not averse to discipline, either.
"We don't smack, but we tell them we're willing to change our minds," he says.
Certainly, he approves of his children's school's motto, "There is no wrong
weather, there is only wrong clothing".

Still, he rather mourns his own lost vices, the fact that "cigars are now my
worst habit". He even suffered a bout of cancer a couple of summers ago: "The
most embarrassing kind," he says. He had gone in to have a haemorrhoid removed
and a few days later "the proctologist said, 'You've got a cancerous
haemorrhoid.' I said, there's no such thing as a cancerous haemorrhoid! That's a
rock band. Or a horrible politician".

So he went in for treatment and, after he had liberally abused "scotch and
painkillers", he quickly recovered.

"Generally speaking I don't mind getting older," he says, "but cancer's such a
bore."

Don't Vote! It Just Encourages the Bastards by P J O'Rourke is published by
Grove Press at £16.99 (¤20)

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: O'Rourke: 'Sarah Palin doesn't even speak in whole sentences'
FRANCESCO GUIDICINI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

News quiz

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 214 words


1 Whose letters, lamenting the education system and rubber tyres on farm carts,
were sold last week for £4,000? 2 According to the Royal Society of Medicine,
what should over-45s do once every day?

3 It's Hitler's wedding anniversary and the day Joan of Arc trounced the English
at Orleans. What date was much discussed last week? 4 The UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom
was ejected from the European parliament for shouting what at a German
colleague? 5 Which 78-year-old has sacked all over-65s from his family business?
6 A dress by the designer Charlotte Todd, pictured, has been valued at £100,000;
it cost just £30 to make. Who wore it? 7 Who ensured that Apple and Cider were
off the menu on Thursday? 8 The universities of Edinburgh and Cambridge will be
looking for new chancellors next year. Why? 9 Two British airports have been
named in a pilots' top 10 of aerial approaches. Which ones? 10 According to the
Scottish Tartans Authority, what should a Scotsman wear under his kilt? News
Quiz answers: 1 Beatrix Potter's 2 Take aspirin 3 April 29 4 Ein volk, ein
reich, ein führer 5 Marquess of Bath 6 Kate Middleton 7 President Obama, who
pardoned the two Thanksgiving turkeys 8 Duke of Edinburgh, who holds both posts,
has announced he's stepping down 9 London City, Barra 10 Underpants

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Slick, roguish and slapping 'em all;
Neither a brush with cancer nor late fatherhood can stop the notorious
hellraiser and arch contrarian from landing fresh blows on both left and right

BYLINE: CAMILLA LONG; PJ O'ROURKE

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1692 words


Oh Lord, don't tell me they've sent me to interview the malodorous right-wing
blobfish Nigel Farage again. The small leathery man puffing on a fat Cohiba
outside a quiet London hotel certainly looks a bit like Farage - loud pinstripe
suit, razzy cufflinks, billowing mackintosh - and even sounds a bit like Farage.

"Wanna suck on this?" he grins, offering the cigar. But of course as soon as he
abandons the half-finished butt on a park bench "for later", whips off his
jacket and gets down to business, any similarities between the fox-smooth
American satirist PJ O'Rourke and the boggle-eyed UKIP dunderhead thankfully
evaporate.

Still, he looks pretty flash in a golf-club blazer on the cover of his new book,
Don't Vote - It Just Encourages the Bastards, a typically spitting, witty attack
on "the amount of bullshit, horseshit and chickenshit involved in politics", he
says. After "40 years of writing about the practice of politics", he decided to
embark on some theory instead, specifically why "politics is a vulgar f******
subject". The result is a rather dark apocalyptic rant against the whole damn
system, from Barack Obama down.

The president has been "a victim of promise", says O'Rourke, slinging himself
into a wicker chair and leaning forward on his knees. At 63 he is still slick,
roguish, natty, clear blue eyes only slightly milky from years of smoke and
scotch and driving fast, with "half a bottle of Chivas in the bag, with a gram
of coke up your nose and a teenage lovely pulling off her tube top in the next
seat". Although really he hasn't "been off my head for yonks", he sighs
wistfully in his sandpaper drawl. "I used to have vices that might actually
destroy society."

By contrast, Obama is a dull, pencilpushing square, initially "the cool, sexy
choice; a handsome young man with an attractive family; by American standards, a
good public speaker - although American standards are deadly low so he's
basically good at reading the Autocue", he says. "But actually, he turned out to
be boring and rather stubborn, doctrinaire, kind of old Labour, intent on
pushing through a legislative agenda that was too strong for the public taste: a
huge disappointment."

As for Sarah Palin, the idea that the hokey-pokey football team wet dream is now
the right's hottest option fills him with utter rage. The original sexy
Republican, O'Rourke is clearly well placed to judge: his snippy, snappy comical
essays in magazines such as Rolling Stone and National Lampoon led to mainstream
political bestsellers such as Republican Party Reptile and Parliament of Whores,
which sold well in Britain, too.

"Sarah Palin doesn't even speak in whole sentences," he gasps now. "She's more
hooked on her huntin' and fishin' and blueberryin' " reality TV programme than
being governor of Alaska, he says of the job she resigned from last year,
adding: "And how much work is that going to be anyway? There are about four
people in that state." The real problem with someone like Palin, however, is
that "Sarah has always been about Sarah. Overweening ambition is the key." But
isn't that true of all politicians? He laughs. "They're meant to be better at
hiding it."

Conservatism, says O'Rourke, "is a hard sell. You're going to the electorate and
saying: I can do less for you. It takes a lot of charm and a good deal of
intellectual substance to make that sale. Margaret Thatcher had the intellectual
substance and a little of that charm. Reagan had the charm and, as we find out
from his letters, he had a good deal more intellectual throwaway". Palin
"doesn't have the gravitas or the charm".

In fact, what the Republican party could really do with is "someone who looked
like Sarah Palin but spoke like Ronald Reagan", he says. "A gorgeous black woman
would be 10 out of 10." He thinks. "A combination of Ronald Reagan and Michelle
Obama would be perfect..."

Ultimately, though, politicians need to get out of our faces altogether. In the
book he argues for the reduction of big government, the expansion of the free
market, devolution of power to more local, smallscale initiatives - it's an
archly libertarian philosophy, akin to David Cameron's big society, that he is a
little disappointed has not caused a bit more controversy.

Certainly not like the good old days, when he slapped up everyone from Bill
Clinton to Al Gore, attacking Germans and Arabs, Poles and the French - "a
smallish, monkey-looking bunch and not dressed any better, on average, than the
citizens of Baltimore", he wrote in Holidays in Hell.

His most controversial moment came in South Korea at a rally for the country's
future president Kim Dae-jung. "Half a million people had turned up," he says,
"and right down at the front of the crowd was this young man in a white ski coat
carrying a sign saying, 'Kim Dae-jung for president of the universe'. So he
pulls off his ski jacket, bites off the tip off his little finger and writes the
characters for Kim Dae-jung on his jacket in blood." He pauses. "I wrote, I've
been these 15 years a foreign correspondent and this is the first time I've seen
anything that was indeed f****** foreign."

He was banned from South Korea and received countless death threats on specially
printed postcards. The editor of Rolling Stone was forced to apologise publicly
and when "I went to speak at Brown University I had to be escorted to and from
the stage by the football team", he says, in case he was attacked by the
college's ethnic minority support groups. At the time he was even married to the
black socialite Amy Lumet, daughter of Sidney, now rather astoundingly a
bodybuilder, and "she was standing up, really mad, 'You calling my husband a
racist?'".

Mind you, he was pretty rude about England, too, horrified at the food - "I
ordered a steak once that had been boiled" - not to mention the cold when he
first came over 40 years ago in the winter of 1970. He stayed in a basement flat
in Little Venice, west London, where the walls iced over because of the nearby
canal and "the eight or 12 of us who shared the flat would watch Monty Python on
the TV", he says. "Perfectly surreal: the first thing I saw was Eric Idle
marching up and down in drag. I got to know Eric later. Once I said, 'Eric, I
swore last time we met you were taller.' He said, 'The last time we met you were
funnier.' Ha! I bought him a drink."

Even though he still doesn't understand cricket - "I tend to confuse it with
quidditch" - his relationship with Britain has improved considerably over the
years. "You're just a smarter country," he says. "Better conversation." Whenever
he goes on TV shows in America, "a vague young woman will call ahead and say,
'Oh, do you think Obama's a Muslim?'"; whereas over here "you'll get a girl with
a terrifying Oxbridge accent who'll say, 'Can you tell us with some precision
your moral qualms about nanotechnology?'" He laughs. "I've only been asked will
Sarah Palin run against Obama about six times so far this week." Will Sarah
Palin run against Obama? He sighs. Looks sad. "Probably."

Not that he really despises America: tomorrow he's rushing back to his beloved
New Hampshire because his eldest daughter - he has three children with his
second wife, Christina - is about to turn 13 "and I don't want to go to dad
jail". He's just a professional contrarian, a numb-nutted provocateur who took a
long time settling down, becoming a father at 50.

"Great," he hoots. "Baby up in the middle of the night - I'm up in the middle of
the night."

He admits spoiling his kids a bit but is not averse to discipline, either. "We
don't smack, but we tell them we're willing to change our minds," he says.
Certainly he approves of his children's school motto, "There is no wrong
weather; there is only wrong clothing", and recently turned on his daughter:
"She was being a pain in the ass: 'Life's not fair. Life's not fair.' I got fed
up. I said, 'You're cute - that's not fair. You're smart - that's not fair. Your
family's pretty well off - that's not fair. You were born in the US - that's not
fair. Darling, you had better get down on your knees and pray to God that things
don't start getting fair on you'."

Still, he rather mourns his own lost vices, the fact that "cigars are now my
worst habit". He even suffered a bout of cancer a couple of summers ago. "The
most embarrassing kind of cancer," he says. Butt cancer? He nods. He had gone in
to have a haemorrhoid removed and a few days later "the proctologist - or
whatever they call themselves now; I love the word proctologist, but the
proctologists are fed up with explaining what they do at parties - he said,
you've got a cancerous haemorrhoid. I said, there's no such thing as a cancerous
haemorrhoid! That's a rock band. Or a horrible politician."

So he went in for treatment and after he had liberally abused "scotch and
painkillers", he quickly recovered.

"And when I had put it all behind me," he pauses to scream with laughter, "I
thought, that was quite scary. Generally speaking I don't mind getting older,
but cancer's such a bore."

Still, the good news is that he survived and has, as a consequence, been able to
further his investigations into some pithy new areas of political theory,
specifically a philosophy based on Kill, F***, Marry. A student game he heard
his wife discussing one evening at a dinner party, KFM nearly became the title
of his book.

"KFM is not a boys' game," says O'Rourke now of the fun but totally flawed way
of categorising people or institutions; for example, the 1992 US presidential
candidates: "We kill Ross Perot. We could hardly avoid a f*** from Bill Clinton.
And we marry kindly old George H W Bush."

Apparently he can't apply it to Cameron or Obama - "Uh, you see why it's not a
boys' game" - but, weirdly, it seems made for someone such as Palin.

"Well, I'm happily married already," he enthuses. "And I wouldn't remain married
if we moved to the f*** position. So we'd have to do what the CIA calls
'dismissing with extreme prejudice'."

Don't Vote - It Just Encourages the Bastards by PJ O'Rourke is published by
Grove Press at £16.99

'' I haven't been off my head for yonks. I used to have vices that might
actually destroy society

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2011

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRANCESCO GUIDICINI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               November 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

News quiz

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 211 words


1 Whose letters, lamenting the education system and rubber tyres on farm carts,
were sold last week for £4,000?

2 According to the Royal Society of Medicine, what should over-45s do once every
day?

3 It's Hitler's wedding anniversary and the day Joan of Arc trounced the English
at Orleans. What date was much discussed last week?

4 The UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom was ejected from the European parliament for
shouting what at a German colleague?

5 Which 78-year-old has sacked all over-65s from his family business?

6 A dress by the designer Charlotte Todd, pictured, has been valued at £100,000;
it cost just £30 to make. Who wore it?

7 Who ensured that Apple and Cider were off the menu on Thursday?

8 The universities of Edinburgh and Cambridge will be looking for new
chancellors next year. Why?

9 Two British airports have been named in a pilots' top 10 of aerial approaches.
Which ones?

10 According to the Scottish Tartans Authority, what should a Scotsman wear
under his kilt?

Answers: 1 Beatrix Potter's 2 Take aspirin 3 April 29 4 Ein volk, ein reich, ein
führer 5 Marquess of Bath 6 Kate Middleton 7 President Obama, who pardoned the
two Thanksgiving turkeys 8 Duke of Edinburgh, who holds both posts, has
announced he's stepping down 9 London City, Barra 10 Underpants

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               November 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Slick, roguish and slapping 'em all;
PJ O'ROURKE Neither a brush with cancer nor late fatherhood can stop the
notorious hellraiser and arch contrarian from landing fresh blows on both left
and right

BYLINE: CAMILLA LONG

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1692 words


Oh Lord, don't tell me they've sent me to interview the malodorous right-wing
blobfish Nigel Farage again. The small leathery man puffing on a fat Cohiba
outside a quiet London hotel certainly looks a bit like Farage - loud pinstripe
suit, razzy cufflinks, billowing mackintosh - and even sounds a bit like Farage.
"Wanna suck on this?" he grins, offering the cigar. But of course as soon as he
abandons the half-finished butt on a park bench "for later", whips off his
jacket and gets down to business, any similarities between the fox-smooth
American satirist PJ O'Rourke and the boggle-eyed UKIP dunderhead thankfully
evaporate.

Still, he looks pretty flash in a golf-club blazer on the cover of his new book,
Don't Vote - It Just Encourages the Bastards, a typically spitting, witty attack
on "the amount of bullshit, horseshit and chickenshit involved in politics", he
says. After "40 years of writing about the practice of politics", he decided to
embark on some theory instead, specifically why "politics is a vulgar f******
subject". The result is a rather dark apocalyptic rant against the whole damn
system, from Barack Obama down.

The president has been "a victim of promise", says O'Rourke, slinging himself
into a wicker chair and leaning forward on his knees. At 63 he is still slick,
roguish, natty, clear blue eyes only slightly milky from years of smoke and
scotch and driving fast, with "half a bottle of Chivas in the bag, with a gram
of coke up your nose and a teenage lovely pulling off her tube top in the next
seat". Although really he hasn't "been off my head for yonks", he sighs
wistfully in his sandpaper drawl. "I used to have vices that might actually
destroy society."

By contrast, Obama is a dull, pencilpushing square, initially "the cool, sexy
choice; a handsome young man with an attractive family; by American standards, a
good public speaker - although American standards are deadly low so he's
basically good at reading the Autocue", he says. "But actually, he turned out to
be boring and rather stubborn, doctrinaire, kind of old Labour, intent on
pushing through a legislative agenda that was too strong for the public taste: a
huge disappointment."

As for Sarah Palin, the idea that the hokey-pokey football team wet dream is now
the right's hottest option fills him with utter rage. The original sexy
Republican, O'Rourke is clearly well placed to judge: his snippy, snappy comical
essays in magazines such as Rolling Stone and National Lampoon led to mainstream
political bestsellers such as Republican Party Reptile and Parliament of Whores,
which sold well in Britain, too.

"Sarah Palin doesn't even speak in whole sentences," he gasps now. "She's more
hooked on her huntin' and fishin' and blueberryin' " reality TV programme than
being governor of Alaska, he says of the job she resigned from last year,
adding: "And how much work is that going to be anyway? There are about four
people in that state." The real problem with someone like Palin, however, is
that "Sarah has always been about Sarah. Overweening ambition is the key." But
isn't that true of all politicians? He laughs. "They're meant to be better at
hiding it."

Conservatism, says O'Rourke, "is a hard sell. You're going to the electorate and
saying: I can do less for you. It takes a lot of charm and a good deal of
intellectual substance to make that sale. Margaret Thatcher had the intellectual
substance and a little of that charm. Reagan had the charm and, as we find out
from his letters, he had a good deal more intellectual throwaway".

Palin "doesn't have the gravitas or the charm".

In fact, what the Republican party could really do with is "someone who looked
like Sarah Palin but spoke like Ronald Reagan", he says. "A gorgeous black woman
would be 10 out of 10." He thinks. "A combination of Ronald Reagan and Michelle
Obama would be perfect ..." Ultimately, though, politicians need to get out of
our faces altogether. In the book he argues for the reduction of big government,
the expansion of the free market, devolution of power to more local, smallscale
initiatives - it's an archly libertarian philosophy, akin to David Cameron's big
society, that he is a little disappointed has not caused a bit more controversy.

Certainly not like the good old days, when he slapped up everyone from Bill
Clinton to Al Gore, attacking Germans and Arabs, Poles and the French - "a
smallish, monkey-looking bunch and not dressed any better, on average, than the
citizens of Baltimore", he wrote in Holidays in Hell.

His most controversial moment came in South Korea at a rally for the country's
future president Kim Dae-jung. "Half a million people had turned up," he says,
"and right down at the front of the crowd was this young man in a white ski coat
carrying a sign saying, 'Kim Dae-jung for president of the universe'. So he
pulls off his ski jacket, bites off the tip off his little finger and writes the
characters for Kim Dae-jung on his jacket in blood." He pauses. "I wrote, I've
been these 15 years a foreign correspondent and this is the first time I've seen
anything that was indeed f****** foreign."

He was banned from South Korea and received countless death threats on specially
printed postcards. The editor of Rolling Stone was forced to apologise publicly
and when "I went to speak at Brown University I had to be escorted to and from
the stage by the football team", he says, in case he was attacked by the
college's ethnic minority support groups. At the time he was even married to the
black socialite Amy Lumet, daughter of Sidney, now rather astoundingly a
bodybuilder, and "she was standing up, really mad, 'You calling my husband a
racist?' ".

Mind you, he was pretty rude about England, too, horrified at the food - "I
ordered a steak once that had been boiled" - not to mention the cold when he
first came over 40 years ago in the winter of 1970. He stayed in a basement flat
in Little Venice, west London, where the walls iced over because of the nearby
canal and "the eight or 12 of us who shared the flat would watch Monty Python on
the TV", he says. "Perfectly surreal: the first thing I saw was Eric Idle
marching up and down in drag. I got to know Eric later. Once I said, 'Eric, I
swore last time we met you were taller.' He said, 'The last time we met you were
funnier.' Ha! I bought him a drink."

Even though he still doesn't understand cricket - "I tend to confuse it with
quidditch" - his relationship with Britain has improved considerably over the
years. "You're just a smarter country," he says. "Better conversation." Whenever
he goes on TV shows in America, "a vague young woman will call ahead and say,
'Oh, do you think Obama's a Muslim?'"; whereas over here "you'll get a girl with
a terrifying Oxbridge accent who'll say, 'Can you tell us with some precision
your moral qualms about nanotechnology?'" He laughs. "I've only been asked will
Sarah Palin run against Obama about six times so far this week." Will Sarah
Palin run against Obama? He sighs. Looks sad. "Probably."

Not that he really despises America: tomorrow he's rushing back to his beloved
New Hampshire because his eldest daughter - he has three children with his
second wife, Christina - is about to turn 13 "and I don't want to go to dad
jail". He's just a professional contrarian, a numb-nutted provocateur who took a
long time settling down, becoming a father at 50.

"Great," he hoots. "Baby up in the middle of the night - I'm up in the middle of
the night."

He admits spoiling his kids a bit but is not averse to discipline, either. "We
don't smack, but we tell them we're willing to change our minds," he says.
Certainly he approves of his children's school motto, "There is no wrong
weather; there is only wrong clothing", and recently turned on his daughter:
"She was being a pain in the ass: 'Life's not fair. Life's not fair.' I got fed
up. I said, 'You're cute - that's not fair. You're smart - that's not fair. Your
family's pretty well off - that's not fair. You were born in the US - that's not
fair. Darling, you had better get down on your knees and pray to God that things
don't start getting fair on you'."

Still, he rather mourns his own lost vices, the fact that "cigars are now my
worst habit". He even suffered a bout of cancer a couple of summers ago. "The
most embarrassing kind of cancer," he says. Butt cancer? He nods. He had gone in
to have a haemorrhoid removed and a few days later "the proctologist - or
whatever they call themselves now; I love the word proctologist, but the
proctologists are fed up with explaining what they do at parties - he said,
you've got a cancerous haemorrhoid. I said, there's no such thing as a cancerous
haemorrhoid! That's a rock band. Or a horrible politician."

So he went in for treatment and after he had liberally abused "scotch and
painkillers", he quickly recovered.

"And when I had put it all behind me," he pauses to scream with laughter, "I
thought, that was quite scary. Generally speaking I don't mind getting older,
but cancer's such a bore."

Still, the good news is that he survived and has, as a consequence, been able to
further his investigations into some pithy new areas of political theory,
specifically a philosophy based on Kill, F***, Marry. A student game he heard
his wife discussing one evening at a dinner party, KFM nearly became the title
of his book.

"KFM is not a boys' game," says O'Rourke now of the fun but totally flawed way
of categorising people or institutions; for example, the 1992 US presidential
candidates: "We kill Ross Perot. We could hardly avoid a f*** from Bill Clinton.
And we marry kindly old George H W Bush."

Apparently he can't apply it to Cameron or Obama - "Uh, you see why it's not a
boys' game" - but, weirdly, it seems made for someone such as Palin.

"Well, I'm happily married already," he enthuses. "And I wouldn't remain married
if we moved to the f*** position. So we'd have to do what the CIA calls
'dismissing with extreme prejudice'."

Don't Vote - It Just Encourages the Bastards by PJ O'Rourke is published by
Grove Press at £16.99

'' I haven't been off my head for yonks. I used to have vices that might
actually destroy society

LOAD-DATE: November 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRANCESCO GUIDICINI

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

MEP's 10,000 mile trip home....

BYLINE: By Ben Borland

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 281  words


BRITISH taxpayers are footing the bill for a Euro MP from an island in the South
Pacific, 10,000 miles away from Brussels.

Tiny New Caledonia is largely independent but is still a French colony, giving
its 249,000 citizens the right to vote in EU elections.

Salary and expenses for their MEP Maurice Ponga include business class flights
between his home and Strasbourg.

Mr Ponga is one of three MEPs from French overseas territories.

The others are Elie Hoarau, a communist from the Indian Ocean island of Reunion,
and Patrice Tirolien, a socialist from Guadeloupe. However, New Caledonia does
not use the Euro and still has its own flag. Mr Ponga travels to Europe at least
four times a year, costing GBP 6,000 a time with Air France.

Lord Christopher Monckton, Deputy Leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "It
is outrageous that this man votes on our laws when his Pacific island has more
independence from the EU than Britain does."

Britain has only one overseas territory in the EU, Gibraltar, which is
represented by MEPs from South West England. Last night, a senior British MEP
said:

"France stretches credibility when it comes to how they define overseas
territories.

"Why shouldn't the Falklands have a representative under this system?"

New Caledonia lies 750 miles east of Cairns, north Australia.

Mr Ponga, 63, was a teacher and education authority worker before going into
politics in 1996.

Since being elected in May last year, he has made three speeches and asked one
written question.

Dominique Roberts, from the Paris Office of the European Parliament, said: "It
might seem stupid, but to us it is normal. New Caledonia is still part of
France, people there are French voters."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 28, 2010 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Gravy train MEP joins jet set and flies 10,000 miles to take his seat

BYLINE: By Ben Borland

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 598  words


BRITISH taxpayers are footing the bill for a Euro MP who represents a remote
island paradise in the South Pacific, 10,000 miles away from Brussels, the
Sunday Express can reveal.

Tiny New Caledonia is largely independent but still retains its status as a
French overseas colony, giving its 249,000 citizens the right to vote in
European elections.

They are represented by conservative Maurice Ponga, who receives a generous
MEP's salary and expenses, including business class flights between his home and
the parliament.

Mr Ponga is one of three MEPs representing overseas departments and territories
of France. The others are Elie Hoaroa, a communist from the Indian Ocean island
of Reunion, and Patrice Tirolien, a socialist from the Caribbean nation of
Guadeloupe.

However, unlike most French overseas territories, New Caledonia does not use the
euro, has its own national flg and is largely autonomous from Paris.

The Sunday Express understands that Mr Ponga travels between Europe and the
South Pacific at least four times a year. A return trip from Brussels with Air
France costs around GBP 6,000.

One European Parliament source said: "He will receive a fixed sum rather than
per kilometre expenses, but it will be generous enough to fly business class to
and from New Caledonia as often as he likes."

Christopher Monckton, deputy leader of the UK Independence Party and spokesman
on Scottish affairs, described the situation as "outrageous".

"Some might say it is hard to get to Brussels or Strasbourg from Lerwick or
Mull, but that is not a patch on Ponga, " he said. "His travel bill alone from
the Pacific must be astronomical."

Lord Monckton, who lives in Rannoch, Perthshire, and was a policy advisor to
Margaret Thatcher, added: "It is outrageous that this man votes on our laws when
his island has more independence from the EU than Britain does."

Britain has only one overseas territory within the EU, Gibraltar, which is
represented by MEPs from South West England.

Last night, one senior British MEP told the Sunday Express:

"France stretches credibility when it comes to how they define their overseas
territories. Why shouldn't the Falklands have a representative under this
system?

"Even places like the Isle of Man, Jersey and Guernsey don't have MEPs, yet they
have to obey EU laws unlike places like Guadeloupe and New Caledonia.

"It makes a nonsense of the whole geographic question on accession to the
European Union and shows there are fundamental flaws."

New Caledonia, which lies 750 miles east of Cairns in northern Australia, was
given its name by Captain James Cook. It was seized by France in 1853 and was a
prison colony until as recently as 1922.

Today it is a popular holiday destination, where tourists can scuba-dive in the
world's largest coral lagoon. Visitors have described the atmosphere as "more
French than France" but, in reality, trade, taxes, employment law, health and
hygiene are devolved to the island's congress. More powers are set to be handed
over and the congress has also passed Bills to override French and European
laws.

Mr Ponga, 63, was a primary school teacher and education authority worker before
becoming a politician in 1996.

Since being elected to Brussels in May last year, he has made three speeches and
asked one written question. He has also travelled the world as a member of the
EU Development Committee, visiting New York, Africa and Tenerife during 2010.

Dominique Roberts, from the Paris Office of the European Parliament, said: "It
might seem illogical to you but New Caledonia is still part of France, its
people are French voters."

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: LAP OF LUXURY: Island paradise of New Caledonia in the South Pacific
comes under the European Parliament in Brussels
OUR MAN OVERSEAS: MEP Maurice Ponga represents the French colony of New
Caledonia

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

ACHTUNG! NGLANDER ON ZE VERY OFFENSIVE!

BYLINE: BY QUENTIN LETTS

LENGTH: 1008 words


BEST scene of the week was the ejection of UKIP s Godfrey Bloom from the
European Parliament. Mr Bloom, a Yorkshire MEP, was expelled for heckling a
Eurofederalist German, Martin Schulz, with the words e in Volk, in eich, in
uhrer .

Schulz at the time was banging on about European integration, or imperialism as
some might see it.

The words sent Herr Schulz into a frightful paddy. Yet he himself has in the
past been pretty foul to Eurosceptics, calling them mentally ill and comparing
them to Hitler.

Exit Bloom, but not exactly in disgrace. His departure was more like Bradman
leaving the field after scoring a ton. The doorkeepers, far f rom f rogmarchi ng
hi m out, escorted him with smiles. I am told one of them even shook ol d
Bloomers warmly by the hand.

The expulsion was ordered by the session s acting chairman, Edward McMi l l an-
Scot t ( ni ckname: Edward McMillan-Snob), who was elected to Brussels on the
party list system as a Tory. The liveri sh McMillan- Scott has since changed
party and become a Lib Dem. So much for his democratic mandate.

Wi thi n mi nutes Mr Bl oom received a steaming summons from the parliament s
president (equivalent of Speaker), some Pole called Jerzy Buzek.

Mr Bloom sent back a message saying if chum Buzek wanted to wander down to his
office, he (Bloom) would be only too happy to see him.

Otherwise the matter must wait because Mr Bloom was too busy fielding calls of
congratulation. I am now goi ng to see the Rei chsf uhrer on Wednesday, booms Mr
Bloom down his mobile from a Eurostar train somewhere in the Low Countries. I ll
probably be fined ten days wages. If they think they can silence me by stopping
my lunch money, they re got another thought coming. He might have been ruder to
Herr Shulz but for the fact that apart from ordering a couple of beers, ein
Volk, ein Reich, ein Fuhrer is my only German .

I really must get over to Brussels soon to do some sketchwriting. The Parliament
sounds a hoot.

HUNT THE YPOCRITE

COMMONS old-timer David Winnick (Lab, Walsall N) thinks it was marvellous that
student demonstrators beat up a police van, smashed a telephone box, squirted
paint on buildings and brought Whitehall to a violent halt.

Can this be the same David Winnick who in 2004, after pro-hunting activists
entered the House of Commons without causing damage, had a fit of the vapours
and called it the most disgraceful act of hooliganism in years ?

.ONE thi ng to note about Accused, the anti-Army BBC television drama: the
military adviser to the production was a former soldier, Adnan Sarwar. A
Pakistan-born Muslim, he is a favourite of The Guardian. I have tried to contact
Mr Sarwar for comment but he has not yet responded.

BBC executives were perplexed by the uproar over Accused. You can perhaps see
why. In 2007 the state-funded Royal Shakespeare Company staged a vicious little
anti-military play, Days Of Significance.

It depicted British soldiers as rapacious, cowardly, drunken losers. I did try
to point out at the time that this was not a great idea, but the other theatre
critics, nearly all Left-wing, loved the play.

If only there were a few more Right-wing critics, these elephant traps could be
avoided.

TheRe was an admirable speech in the Commons on Tuesday from Claire Perry MP,
the Devizes Tory who once barged on to my breakfast table to berate me for being
beastly. She spoke forcefully this week against internet pornography. Good for
her. She used one phrase that was a little tricky, mind you. We have thrown up
our hands about pornography, she said, and put the issue in the too hard basket.
The dear souls from hansard almost fainted.

.PLUMP young Tory Alec Shelbrooke, MP for Elmet & Rothwell, reacted with
commendable speed to my note last week suggesting that he tidy himself up. On
Monday the formerly shambolic Shelbrooke rolled into the Commons resplendent in
a smart, dark, three-piece suit. Beau Brummel lives!

.A FAMILIAR face sat at the back of the room when Davi d Camer on launched his
Whitehall happiness audit at the Treasury. It was Kitty Ussher, until May a
Labour MP, and indeed a former Treasury minister. Miss Ussher was at the event
in her capacity as director of Demos, a Leftish think tank.

Inspecting Demos s web-site, I see that one of its trustees is Neil Sherlock, a
partner at consultants KPMG. Ah, KPMG. Busy bees. By one of those happy strokes
of f or t une, t hey wer e appointed by the Treasury in Gordon Brown s time to
act as administrators of Dunfermline Building Society.

This week it was disclosed that KPMG s fees for just 16 months of work on
Dunferm-line came to 613.4 million.

SINEAD S EVER O U MBLE

ACTReSS Sinead Cusack (right) has talked about the excitingly rebuilt Royal
Shakespeare Theatre in Stratford-upon-Avon. Recalling the first time she worked
at the old theatre, she claims to have been cowed. I was just an Irish peasant,
she said. er, not quite true. The Cusacks are Irish showbiz royalty, her father
Cyril having been as big in Dublin as Laurence Olivier was in england. Moreover,
he was from the early 1960s a member of the RSC. Sinead is one of three
daughters he had by actress Maureen Kiely. All three of them have themselves
enjoyed success on the stage not least thanks to their family name.

Irish, Miss Cusack most certainly is, and proudly so. But peasant ? Child of
immense privilege would be more accurate.

BISHOP S PAWN MOVE

ANGLI CAN money woes conti nue. A church mouse tells me the official residence
of the Bishop of Ely has been earmarked f or sale.

Ely was once among the most gi l ded of Eur ope s di oc e s an powers. What a pi
t y t he Church of Engl and doesn t just dispense with some of its suffragan
bishops (eg the gr ungy Bi s hop of Willesden, who bitched about Prince William
s engagement recently) instead of shedding its historical magnificence.

SWEET N SOUR

RADIO ThRee presenter Matthew Sweet this week described American writer PJ O
Rourke as the thinking man s Republican . Savour the soft bigotry in that
remark. Would he have described, say, Noam Chomsky as the thinking man s
Democrat ?

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

NEW RESEARCH SHOWS COUNTLESS VOTERS FEEL ANGRY, NEGLECTED, HAVE TRADITIONAL
VIEWS AND WORRRY ABOUT IMMIGRATION. SO WHY WILL NO POLITICIAN SPEAK UP FOR THEM?

LENGTH: 1505 words


TIM MONTGOMERIE ON POLITICS AND POWER

FIVE million people have given up on mainstream political parties in the past
ten years. Most of this huge number have stopped voting altogether. Some have
defected to the United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP). Some, thankfully a
smaller number, have even embraced the loathsome British National Party (BNP).

These millions of people look at David Cameron, Ed Miliband and Nick Clegg and
can t see much of a difference between them. They look at their policies and see
the same attitude to punishing criminals; the same signing up to the European
Union s demands; the same support for multiculturalism and more immigration.

Ed Miliband encountered this angry class of mainstream political deserter on
Thursday when he sat down with some Tesco shopworkers in Dudley in the West
Midlands. They were working hard to make ends meet and they hated the way that
their taxes were abused by people on welfare, people who could work but don t.

The Labour leader looked shocked and uncomfortable at such conservative views
from people he probably regarded as core Labour voters. When I try to give these
disenfranchised voters a human face, I think of a woman I saw being interviewed
on television and who voted BNP in last year s European elections.

Talking to a television reporter, while packing a gift parcel for troops in
Afghanistan, she said she wanted her son s school to teach British history.

She wanted her local town hall to celebrate Christmas and not have her council
tax used for a politically correct Winterval festival. She didn t want her
country governed by Brussels. Race wasn t mentioned, but her disillusionment
with the mainstream parties had led her, in desperation, to lend her vote to a
racist party.

For the first time, the concerns of this army of five million have been analysed
i n det ai l by t he l obby gr oup NothingBritish.com, which campaigns against
the BNP and extremism in politics and polled thousands of what it calls ANTI
voters.

The acronym ANTI comes from four defining characteristics. First they are Angry
about the political system. They are tired of broken promises and political
parties ready to surrender solemn pledges as soon as they are in office. Last
year s expenses cri si s wasn t the beginning of their disdain for MPs, but it
did confirm their low view of parliament and politics.

Secondl y, they f eel Negl ected financially, and because of this are much more
pessimistic about their future than the average Briton.

THEy are the pound-stretching class. They have to watch every penny. They worry
about keeping their jobs. They resent their taxes going to undeserving causes or
being used to bail out Ir eland and rich bankers.

The third characteristic of the ANTI voter is Traditionalism . They hold
traditional views about crime, drugs, family values and national pride. They
worry their country is changing too fast and not for the better.

Finally, and most importantly, the ANTI voter is opposed to large-scale
Immigration .

The worry about immigration isn t about race, except for a small minority. It is
about pressure on the housing stock. It s about competition for scarce jobs. It
s about children trying to learn in schools where English isn t the first
language for many of the class.

When questioned, 89 per cent of these ANTIs said they would be more likely to
vote for a party that promi sed to be tougher on immigration; 85 per cent said
they would be more likely to vote for a party that promised to take back powers
from Europe; 81 per cent said they would be more likely to vote for a party that
promised to crack down on crime.

Moreover, 94 per cent of BNP voters and 91 per cent of UKIP voters agreed with
the statement that Britain is no longer a fair country that rewards its people
based on merit .

Before the General Election, these voters were hardly on David Cameron s radar.
From the first moment he became Tory leader, he aimed to win back the votes of
Liberal England the people who had defected from the Conservatives to either the
Liberal Democrats or to Tony Blair.

He wanted to win back people who cared about the environment, the National
Health Service and civil liberties. He wanted to soften conservatism, not
toughen it.

He built up a campaign machine at Conservative HQ that focused not on the whole
country, but on the two million swing voters in the 100 marginal seats who tend
to decide who becomes Prime Minister.

As an electoral strategy it failed to secure him an outright majority, although
it won enough seats to end Labour rule. Now, however, as Prime Minister, David
Cameron has a bigger responsibility.

I n No 10 Downi ng St r eet , Cameron has a responsibility to govern for the
whole nation and we should judge him, in part, on whether he can reduce the ANTI
voter army. As a Conservative, Cameron has an opportunity many would say an
obligation to show that a politician can keep promises and can make a practical
improvement to the lives of the pound-stretching class.

So, what would an ANTI voter make of his performance so far? On i mmi gr at i
on, t he mos t important issue, there are at least hopeful signs.

When David Cameron began negotiations with Nick Clegg about forming a coalition
government, he made it clear he wasn t prepared to compromise on the promise he
made to reduce net immigration of people outside the EU from the hundreds of
thousands to the tens of thousands.

That promise is essentially a 70 per cent cut from the Labour years when weak
border controls allowed two million people to come to live and work in Britain.
It was the equivalent of two extra cities the size of Birmingham added to the
nation s population, in little more than ten years.

The Prime Minister and Home Secretary Theresa May have fought a tough battle
within the Coalition Government to defend the pledge. The Liberal Democrats do
not believe in the Tories hard-line approach and Nick Clegg wants illegal
immigrants to have the right to settle in Britain. Business Secretary Vince
Cable attempted to dilute the immigration cap, but Mrs May dug in her stiletto
heels and wouldn t be moved. She also defeated big business interests who d
rather import cheap labour from overseas than patiently train British workers,
many of whom prefer to live on benefits.

So far, so good. But economic migration is only one route into Britain. Many
more immigrants come into the UK as students, but they register at bogus
colleges and work in the black economy. Others still enter our country using
bogus marriages and family visas, but they arrive neither able to speak English
nor with any understanding of British culture.

If Theresa May succeeds in blocking these immigrants, too, in a step-by-step
attack on Britain s lax border controls, she ll do more than any other
politician to restore the ANTI voters trust in politics.

In addition to Theresa May, the two other members of Cameron s team who best
understand the ANTI voter are Iain Duncan Smith and George Osborne.

In particular, they understand the ANTIs concerns about taxpayers money going to
undeserving causes and are trying to rebuild the welfare system so that work
pays and people who refuse reasonabl e j ob offers l ose thei r benefits.

WH E N t h e s e r ef or ms wer e first announced, Labour instinctively accused
the Tories of being harsh. But as Ed Miliband found out, on his visit to Dudley
and that Tesco super-market, low-income workers who do the decent thing are
tired of being taken for a ride.

Ed Miliband is certainly going to find it hard to win over the pound-stretchers.
He is associated with the government that created the conditions that gave rise
to the ANTI vot er : out - of - cont r ol immigration; a welfare system that was
unfair to those in work; and massive growth in anti- social behaviour.

Unlike Cameron, he can only make promises. He can t easily do anything that will
overcome the ANTI s deep s us pi ci on of politicians words.

These hurdles won t mean that the Labour leader won t or shouldn t try. Nothing
will stop Cameron being re-elected if the economy is strong by the time of the
next election and he fixes the deficit, fixes immigration and fixes welfare.

But Miliband has half a chance if things turn messy for Cameron. By messy, I
mean rising fuel bills. I mean higher VAT and higher holiday taxes. I mean a
crime wave on streets where there are fewer police officers, a crime wave
committed by people who the Coalition didn t put in prison because Justice
Secretary Kenneth Clarke does not believe in locking up criminals.

I mean Europe continuing to order Britain to do things like give votes to
prisoners.

What Cameron has to realise is that, more than anything else, the ANTI voters
describe Britain as unfair . Unfair to them and unfair to people who do the
right thing.

Cameron has a great opportunity to bring these disaffected voters back into the
mainstream of politics, but only if he becomes their champion.

On immigration and welfare the signs are good. But on Europe, tax and crime, he
s going in the wrong direction.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           November 27, 2010 Saturday

Features - The Paddy McGuffin Column - The rightwingers' gaffe-athon

LENGTH: 609 words


It's been a week of ill-advised opinion-spouting, often in spectacularly
self-immolatory fashion. First we had Lord Young telling us we should stop
whingeing about the recession and that in a few years everyone would wonder what
all the fuss was about.

As public acts of hara kiri go this was up there with Japanese aesthete author
Yukio Mishima, although probably not as intentional.

The furore surrounding Young's facetious comments ensured that his career took
the ejector seat option and caused major embarrassment to David Cameron who -
ahem - "accepted" the peer's resignation while praising his vicious
slash-and-burn review of health and safety as absolutely spiffing.

But as we all know, the true heavy-weight champion when it comes to
foot-in-mouth syndrome is the UK Independence Party - and none more so than
Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire MEP Godfrey Bloom.

Perhaps fearing a contender to his undisputed crown, Bloom came out fighting in
jaw-dropping fashion, even by his standards.

At a meeting of the European Parliament on Wednesday Bloom interrupted a speech
by German Social Democrat Martin Schulz by braying: "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein
Fuhrer."

Schulz was understandably quite annoyed by this comment, perhaps particularly as
he has been subjected to such a slur before, when Silvio Berlusconi in one of
his more outlandish utterances in 2003 referred to the hapless German as looking
like a concentration camp guard.

For an Italian to make jokes about another country's fascist past is a bit rich,
especially a right-wing Italian with views on immigration akin to those of Il
Duce himself.

Berlusconi of course did not apologise for his remarks and neither did Bloom.

Perhaps the sheer hypocrisy of representing a virulently anti-European party -
in fact some would say that was Ukip's only policy - in the European Parliament
is taking its toll on him. But probably not ...

This is a man who in 2004 stated that "no small businessman with a brain would
ever employ a lady of child-bearing age," adding bizarrely that women did not
"clean behind the fridge enough."

On being expelled from the chamber Bloom, showing he is not even on nodding
terms with the concept of irony, said: "These Euro nationalists are a danger to
democracy. These people are fanatics. People have got to wake up to this fact."

Ukip leader Nigel Farage, the Isadora Duncan of aerial electioneering, also
defended the remarks.

"Whereas we accept that Mr Bloom's jibe in the parliament may have been rash and
inflammatory, we fully support his sentiments about the formation of an
undemocratic Europe," he said.

But all of the above was knocked into a cocked hat by the comments of Howard
Flight, one of the new batch of Tory peers anointed by Cameron this week.

Flight, apparently having chafed at the faux-liberal bit for too long, claimed
that cuts to child benefit cuts for high earners would be an incentive for the
poor to breed.

We know the Tories are all thinking these things, but it takes a real bellowing
buffoon to say it so blatantly and, flying in the face of fashion, not even on
Twitter which some wag recently described as "people with nothing to say, saying
it in 140 characters or less."

Flight, an ex-banker - surprise surprise - seemed to have got the cart before
the horse somewhat though.

Everyone knows the Lords has more than its fair share of geriatric bigots who
say that kind of thing day in day out and would probably call for forced
sterilisation of anyone earning less than £60,000.

Once you get into the Lords there's basically only one way of getting you out -
feet first.

Crucially though you do have to get there first ... And beat Lord Tebbit to it.

LOAD-DATE: November 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Rich, poor, young and old want their freedom back

BYLINE: STUART WHEELER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 360 words


YESTERDAY'S headline in this paper, Get Britain Out of Europe, was wonderful
news.

Others have tried valiantly to fight this cause, the United Kingdom Independence
Party (UKIP), the Bruges Group, and myself among them.

In my case I brought a court action to try to force the Labour government to
keep its promise to have a referendum on what is now called the Lisbon Treaty,
and I got myself expelled from the Conservative party, in spite of having been
their biggest donor, for supporting and voting for UKIP.

But having a respected national newspaper coming out for leaving the EU will
make all the difference. No longer can it be said that those who want to get rid
of this organisation, which is strangling us, are fruitcakes, extremists or
loonies.

My own experience, judging by the hundreds who wrote to me during my campaign,
is that people up and down this country, rich and poor, young and old - all want
to get back the freedom we thought that we as British people had, but which has
now stealthily been robbed from us.

EU lovers often say that leaving it would be bad for business. Rubbish!

Don't they realise this country buys £40billion more goods from the EU than they
buy from us? The EU Commission may be - indeed it is - greedy, corrupt,
power-hungry and incompetent, but they are not so stupid that they will cut off
their nose to spite their face by stopping a trade which brings them a huge
surplus.

When we come out we shall carry on business with them but we shall be free of
the incredible expense of the Common Agricultural Policy, and we can reverse the
Common Fisheries Policy which has virtually ruined our fishing industry. And our
hedge-fund industry, which brings crucial millions to this country, will no
longer be crushed by EU regulation aimed against us.

And, by the way, the highly-respected TaxPayers' Alliance calculates that our
membership of the EU costs us £125billion a year - that is £2,000 for every man,
woman and child in this country. Let's get our sovereignty back!

Please write to your MP to tell him or her that you support the Daily Express
fight. A lot of MPs do too, but until now, they have been too frightened to say
so.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Tycoon Stuart Wheeler

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

Our campaign wins backing on TV debate

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 126 words


THE Daily Express campaign took centre stage on national television last night.

Speaking on BBC's Question Time, UKIP leader Nigel Farage urged Britons to
"follow the lead by the Daily Express" and push for the UK to leave the European
Union.

He said the euro was on the verge of collapse and removing the shackles of
Brussels would help Britain take back control of immigration. The UKIP MEP said
he was not opposed to all immigration, adding: "Much of the immigration into
Britain has been good but it is utterly irresponsible and stupid to give away
control of your immigration policy to the European Union.

"If we want to control who lives, works and settles in this country we have to
leave the EU and follow the lead the Daily Express has given us today."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP leader Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Our crusade wins backing on TV debate

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 126  words


THE Daily Express crusade took centre stage on national television last night.

Speaking on BBC's Question Time, UKIP leader Nigel Farage urged Britons to
"follow the lead by the Daily Express" and push for the UK to leave the European
Union.

He said the euro was on the verge of collapse and removing the shackles of
Brussels would help Britain take back control of immigration. The UKIP MEP said
he was not opposed to all immigration, adding: "Much of the immigration into
Britain has been good but it is utterly irresponsible and stupid to give away
control of your immigration policy to the European Union.

"If we want to control who lives, works and settles in this country we have to
leave the EU and follow the lead the Daily Express has given us today."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UKIP's Farage last night

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 26, 2010 Friday
                              Correction Appended

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 680 words


&#10002;One can only admire the vitality of Lord Ashcroft, and his apparently
newfound enthusiasm for his parliamentary responsibilities in recent months.
Whereas in 2009 he made 25 "appearances" in parliament - all written questions
to ministers rather than actual activity on the floor of the Lords - suddenly he
is engaged, and a force to be reckoned with. There was nothing remarkable up
until the end of September, just the usual couple of questions a month. Then, in
October, his inquisitiveness kicked in. There were 11 questions last month. When
is the government going to fully migrate its public sector ads on to the
internet (that is, away from horrid publications like the Guardian) has been one
of his favourite themes. That issue was first raised by the Tory financier in
March, around the same time we were asking insolent questions about his
arrangements for paying income tax. Funny that.

&#10002;And a timely slogan graces the Irish stand at the BBC Good Food Show at
the Birmingham NEC. "Go where Ireland takes you," it says. No thank you.

&#10002;Much back-slapping in local government circles as joint action by a
phalanx of council leaders has rightly forced John Ransford, chief executive of
the Local Government Association, to take the mother of all pay cuts. We are all
in this together. Soon we will know whether Ransford, who was paid £302,840, can
get by on his new salary, said to be less than £100,000. Much smirking among
local council chief executives in particular, and particularly those who work
for Tory authorities. For most of them continue to enjoy salaries of about
£200,000, way above the yardstick much trumpeted by Eric Pickles and his ilk -
the £142,500 earned by the prime minister. The £200,000 gang will all say
Ransford is just a lobbyist, while they run empires, hence the differential. But
it's the truth that most chief officers wouldn't climb out of bed for Ransford's
£100,000.

&#10002;And there's fast-moving political panto in Rochdale, where the leader of
the council, Irene Davidson, has relinquished that heady responsibility. All
very sad as last week six colleagues resigned from her Lib Dem group. Yesterday
saw the departure of a seventh. The final straw for Irene appears to have been a
letter plotting her downfall which was written and circulated while she was
recovering from serious illness. Her resignation letter was sent to the town
hall from hospital. A situation that could benefit her deputy, Dale Mulgrew, the
son and agent of the Irish TV funnyman Jimmy Cricket. Dale was born to comedy
and farce.

&#10002;While a stream of beleaguered civil servants look for other ways to earn
a crust, many are moved to comment on the indestructibility of Francis Davis,
erstwhile special adviser on faith matters at Pickles's Department for
Communities and Local Government. First brought into government by Labour's
communities minister John Denham, Davis seamlessly continued in his adviser role
with the Con-Dems. And the transition from a lighter shade of red to a deeper
shade of blue has now been completed, with Davis heading for a new job as head
of Boris Johnson's initiative on collaboration, cohesion and communities early
next year. But then maybe nobody should be surprised by these chameleon
qualities, given Davis's admission in the Catholic Times of 16 May that he was
"a convinced member of the SDP", for whom he campaigned in 1987. Where next?
Ukip?

&#10002;Perhaps not, but that does remind one that these are dark days for our
dear friend Godfrey Bloom, Ukip's ever-thirsty MEP for Yorkshire and North
Lincolnshire, known here as "eight pints". For reasons only he can explain, on
Wednesday Godfrey yelled one of Hitler's slogans ("ein volk, ein Reich, ein
Fuhrer" - "one people, one empire, one leader") at a German member of the
European parliament. Disciplinary action is pending, and basically Godfrey needs
to know where he stands. Is this the end? The beginning? Or the end of the
beginning? They should give it to him straight. He promises not to hurl any Nazi
epithets back.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 30, 2010



CORRECTION: *A column suggested that most local council chief executives receive
salaries of about £200,000. A number of them certainly do - but well short of
most. In the annual survey carried out by the TaxPayers' Alliance campaign group
for the financial year ending April 2009, for instance, the tally at that level
was about two dozen. The survey - later published as the Town Hall Rich List
2010 - sought information on salary levels from 469 county councils, districts,
metropolitan authorities, unitary authorities and London boroughs, plus the
Greater London Authority; not all publish pay figures for individual posts
(Diary, 26 November, page 41).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nazi jibe row

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 48 words


A BRITISH MEP was thrown out of the European Parliament yesterday for shouting
Nazi insults at a German rival.

UK Independence Party member Godfrey Bloom, right, was expelled for calling out
a Nazi slogan about the "Führer" as German socialist Martin Schulz attacked
British policies on Europe.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The myth busters try to make Britain love EU

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 549 words


THE European Commission has unveiled a website designed to win over a sceptical
British public and dispel "urban myths" about the European Union.

The guide, "The EU: what's in it for me?" includes information on travelling and
working in Europe and illustrates projects funded by the EU.

Although it promises a "no-nonsense guide to what the EU delivers", some critics
said it was "bordering on propaganda" and a waste of money.

It aims to dispel "urban myths" about Brussels featured in the British media,
such as reports of EU plans to change the name of the Channel to an
"Anglo-French pond" and to stop bingo callers using the terms "two fat ladies".

Other "myths" include EU proposals to force farmers to provide toys for their
pigs and to make Britain drop the 999 emergency phone number.

Paul Nuttall, a UK Independence Party MEP for the North West of England, said:
"Glossy, and whizz bang it may be, but it just highlights how badly our money is
wasted."

Emma McClarkin, the Conservative MEP for the East Midlands, said: "The EU is
right to want to reach out to people but there is a fine line between
communication and propaganda.

The problems of the EU stem not from poor communication but from its policies;
no amount of money thrown at websites will change that."

The commission has for several years published a brochure about how it says the
EU enriches daily life in the 27 member states.

Mark Gray, a commission spokesman, said the website, which was unveiled at the
commission's offices in London, was designed to make the guide more accessible.

Stephen Booth, of the Open Europe think tank, said, "The EU's public relations
efforts tend to verge on propaganda rather than genuine information but citizens
aren't fooled that easily.

"Instead of spending huge sums on 'communication', the EU should reform its
wasteful budget, stop over-interfering and start listening to the genuine
concerns of citizens.

"That would do far more to improve the EU's image than all these self-promoting
initiatives."

A commission spokesman said: "This is a web version of an existing booklet that
is very much in demand and will mean information is more accessible and more
easily kept up-to-date.

"The total cost, including user testing and focus groups is (EURO)53,800
(£45,600). This will be offset by savings due to an expected reduction in the
demand for print copies and the need for less frequent reprints."

Believe it or not What the EU says

Claim: EU to force Britain to change 999 number

EU response: "The UK is free to keep 999. We are required to make available 112
as an emergency number alongside it, as this is a number that can be used in
every member state.

" English Channel to become "Anglo-French pond"

EU: "The EU has no interest in changing the name of geographical features."

Bingo callers to be banned from using "two fat ladies"

EU: "Language is a living, breathing thing that shouldn't be regulated and the
EU has a good track record in promoting diversity in languages."

Queen to be removed from British passports

EU: "There is currently no legal proposal to that effect."

EU plans to force Britain to liquefy corpses and pour them down the drain

EU: "The reports surfaced after a new method was suggested by Belgian
undertakers as a means of tackling the harmful CO2 emissions from cremation."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip MEP barred for 'fascist' jibe

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 104 words


A UK Independence Party MEP was suspended from the European parliament yesterday
after he called the assembly's German socialist leader an "undemocratic
fascist".

Godfrey Bloom, who represents Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, was expelled
from the chamber in Strasbourg and is likely to face disciplinary action.

During a debate on the 2011 EU budget, Martin Schulz had accused Ukip of trying
to "destroy" the EU.

Mr Bloom responded with one of the Nazis' political slogans: " Ein volk, ein
Reich, ein Führer". When an apology was demanded, Mr Bloom replied: "The views
of Herr Schulz make the case. He is an undemocratic fascist."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Fascist' jibe MEP barred

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 132 words


A UK Independence Party MEP was suspended from the European parliament yesterday
after he called the assembly's German socialist leader an "undemocratic
fascist".

Godfrey Bloom, who represents Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire, was expelled
from the chamber in Strasbourg and is likely to face disciplinary action.

During a debate on the 2011 EU budget, Martin Schulz had demanded more power for
the EU and accused Ukip of trying to "destroy" it.

Mr Bloom responded with one of the Nazis' political slogans: "Ein volk, ein
Reich, ein Führer" (One People, One Nation, One Leader).

When an apology was demanded, Mr Bloom replied: "The views of Herr Schulz make
the case. He is an undemocratic fascist."

MEPs voted to expel Mr Bloom. Twenty of his supporters later walked out of the
chamber in protest.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Greedy Eurocrats get 3.7% pay rise

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 332 words


FURY erupted last night after greedy Eurocrats awarded themselves a massive pay
rise to snatch even more money from British taxpayers.

About 50,000 European Commission civil servants will pocket an inflationbusting
3.7 per cent rise - at a cost of at least £80million - making each one richer by
thousands of pounds a year.

The windfall will include six months paid retrospectively which could push the
total over £100million.

The European Union's 27 governments wanted to limit the pay rise to 1.85 per
cent but the European Court of Justice - whose judges are also on the EU payroll
- says they "exceeded powers".

The green light for the pay rise comes as Britain sheds civil service jobs and
freezes or cuts pay.

Last month, Chancellor George Osborne announced almost 500,000 public sector
jobs were being axed.

Yesterday's court ruling heaps further pressure on Prime Minister David Cameron
who is already facing a Tory rebellion over Europe, with up to 100 MPs set to
challenge him in an attempt to stop further powers being ceded to Brussels. Last
night UKIP 25n04euroflag called on the Mr Cameron to block the rise. UKIP MEP
Marta Andreasen said: "The whole 2.9 per cent rise of the EU budget agreed by
him is ignored by this judgment. This pay rise will break that agreement."

The settlement is based on 2008 figures, when economic conditions were much
better. Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said: "This goes to show how
out of touch Brussels is. EU officials seem to think it is a good time to sue
governments for even more."

A Commission spokesman said staff in Brussels would be suffering a two per cent
cut in purchasing power and must keep pace with 2.4 per cent inflation.

Tiny Iceland, which applied to join the European Union over a year ago, may now
think again.

President Olafur Grimsson said yesterday: "We have seen one euro country after
another in serious difficulty. The advantages of a different currency look less
clear now. Opposition towards EU membership has grown."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Join our battle to pull Britain out of the EU

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4,5

LENGTH: 1318 words


A HUGE groundswell of support was last night gathering behind the Daily Express
crusade for Britain to quit the European Union.

Senior MPs, peers and campaign groups acclaimed this newspaper's stand against
the sprawling Brussels super-state as a turning point in the battle to win back
Britain's independence.

And Eurosceptic critics of UK membership said the growing financial crisis among
the euro nations this week - threatening to cost British taxpayers billions of
pounds - has overwhelmingly confirmed the case for British withdrawal.

Philip Davies, Conservative MP for Shipley and a founding member of the Better
Off Out group of MPs and peers, led the praise for our crusade last night.

He said: "I think it's fantastic that the Daily Express sees such a positive
future for our country. Britain should be developing trade with China, India,
South American and emerging countries in Africa rather than being part of an
inwardlooking, backward-looking protection racket designed to prop up
inefficient European businesses and French farmers.

"As a nation built on trade, we should be ashamed to be members of the EU. It is
a major breakthrough for a national newspaper to support the case for British
withdrawal.

"The Daily Express and the rest of public opinion are way ahead of a lot of
politicians."

The spiralling cost of Britain's EU membership - expected to exceed £6billion in
net contributions alone next year - was last night being cited as a clear-cut
reason for Britain to walk away from the discredited European club.

And the warning earlier this week that UK taxpayers may have to pour billions of
pounds more into saving failing euro economies like Greece News Desk, Daily
Express, 10 Lower and Portugal after the Government's decision to lend £7billion
to debtladen Ireland was understood to be hardening public opinion in favour of
withdrawal.

But opponents of European Union are also angry about the threat to Britain's
democracy by meddling Brussels bureaucracy.

Critics claim Britain's Government has lost control of immigration due to
freedom of movement laws for EU citizens.

And the country's law and order - and basic common sense - are being undermined
by the European Convention on Human Rights, which all EU states are obliged to
sign up to.

Nigel Farage, Euro-MP and leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "I am
delighted to support the Daily Thames Street, London EC3R 6EN Express in its new
crusade to liberate our country from the clutches of the European Union. It
follows in a fine tradition in which your newspaper has fought for Britain's
liberty.

"I am convinced that the vast majority of ordinary men and women of this country
will support your crusade. It will no doubt make the political establishment
very uncomfortable. Good, so it should."

Douglas Carswell, Tory MP for Clacton and a leading critic of the EU at
Westminster, said: "There are millions of people across the country who will be
right behind this crusade.

"This is a watershed. For the first time, a popular, mainstream newspaper has
said we should get out of the EU. It is a significant moment.

"It shows that supporting British withdrawal from the EU is not the preserve of
a minority sect but has become part of mainstream opinion. When my grandparents'
generation was locked into the EU, they were told it was about the economy.

"But our priority today should be trade with the world, not just the member
states of the EU."

Lord Stoddart of Swindon, an Independent Labour peer who began campaigning
against the Common Market in 1962, also welcomed the Daily Express crusade.

"We should never have joined in the first place. It is extremely expensive, and
becoming more expensive all the time," he said.

"What we should be doing is rebuilding the Commonwealth and going out to build
trade with emerging economies like China, India and Brazil. That is where the
future for a good, independent country lies. We are, ratchet by ratchet, losing
our sovereignty.

"Our Parliament loses power every time an agreement is made. The EU is an
undemocratic and dangerous construct."

Leading Eurosceptic campaign groups were last night swinging behind the Daily
Express crusade.

James Pryor, chief executive of the EU Referendum Campaign, said: "When Britain
is broke, can we really afford to send £48million a day to Brussels? Around 70
per cent of our laws are now made in Brussels and that is just not democratic.

"The financial crisis over the last 10 days has really woken people up to the
scandal of the EU."

CITY: PAGE 65

To print off more copies of our voucher, go to www.express.co. uk/europe or join
the crusade online now at www.express.co.uk/web/europecrusade

CRUSADE GET US OUT OF EUROPE

Q Should Britain withdraw from the EU?

YES: 0901 030 8344

Yes text DXTHURYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8345

No text DXTHURNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

GET US OUT OF EUROPE

To the Prime Minister

"The Daily Express is crusading to end Britain's membership of the European
Union. I call on the Government to arrange for an orderly withdrawal of the
United Kingdom from the EU either by means of an enabling referendum or directly
so that the British people are once again placed in charge of their own
political destiny."

Signed:

Name:

Address:

Postcode:

We will pass on your voucher to No 10 Downing Street Please complete and send
to: GET US OUT OF EUROPE, News Desk, Daily Express, 10 Lower Thames Street,
London EC3R 6EN

MPs AND PEERS RIGHT BEHIND US

"As a nation built on trade, we should be ashamed to be As a nation built on
trade, we should be ashamed to be members of the EU. It is a major breakthrough
for a national newspaper to support the case for British withdrawal."

Philip Davies, Conservative MP for Shipley

"It is fantastic news that the Daily Express is taking a lead where our
politicians shamefully have failed. It is fantastic news that the Daily Express
is taking a lead where our politicians shamefully have failed. Millions of
people across the country will be right behind this crusade."

Douglas Carswell, Conservative MP for Clacton

"We should never have joined in the first place. It is extremely expensive. We
are, ratchet by ratchet, losing our sovereignty and power every time an
agreement is made."

Lord Stoddart of Swindon, an Independent Labour peer

MPs AND PEERS RIGHT BEHIND US As a nation built on trade, we should be ashamed
to be members of the EU. It is a major breakthrough for a national newspaper to
support the case for British withdrawal. Philip Davies, Conservative MP for
Shipley Philip Davies, Conservative MP for Shipley It is fantastic news that the
Daily Express is taking a lead where our politicians It is fantastic news that
the Daily Express is taking a lead where our politicians shamefully have failed.
Millions of people across the country will be right behind this campaign.
shamefully have failed. GET US OUT OF EUROPE To the Prime Minister Millions of
people across the country will be right behind this campaign. Douglas Carswell,
Conservative MP for Clacton Douglas Carswell, Conservative MP for Clacton "The
Daily Express is crusading to end Britain's membership of the European Union. I
call on the Government to arrange for an orderly withdrawal of the United
Kingdom from the EU either by means of enabling referendum or directly so that
the British people are once again placed in charge of their own political
destiny." We should never have Signed: joined in the first place. It is
extremely expensive. We are, ratchet by ratchet, losing our sovereignty and
power every time an agreement is made. Name: We should never have joined in the
first place. It is extremely expensive. We are, ratchet by ratchet, losing our
sovereignty and power every time an agreement is made. Lord Stoddart of Swindon,
an Independent Labour peer Address: Postcode: We will pass on your voucher to No
10 Downing Street

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Join our battle to pull Britain out of the EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 779  words


A HUGE groundswell of support was last night gathering behind the Daily Express
campaign for Britain to quit the European Union.

Senior MPs, peers and campaign groups acclaimed this newspaper's stand against
the sprawling Brussels super-state as a turning point in the battle to win back
Britain's independence.

And Eurosceptic critics of UK membership said the growing financial crisis among
the euro nations this week - threatening to cost British taxpayers billions of
pounds - has overwhelmingly confirmed the case for British withdrawal.

Philip Davies, Conservative MP for Shipley and a founding member of the Better
Off Out group of MPs and peers, led the praise for our campaign last night.

He said: "I think it's fantastic that the Daily Express sees such a positive
future for our country. Britain should be developing trade with China, India,
South American and emerging countries in Africa rather than being part of an
inward looking, backward-looking protection racket designed to prop up
inefficient European businesses and French farmers.

"As a nation built on trade, we should be ashamed to be members of the EU. It is
a major breakthrough for a national newspaper to support the case for British
withdrawal.

"The Daily Express and the rest of public opinion are way ahead of a lot of
politicians."

The spiralling cost of Britain's EU membership - expected to exceed GBP 6billion
in net contributions alone next year - was last night being cited as a clear-cut
reason for Britain to walk away from the discredited European club.

And the warning earlier this week that UK taxpayers may have to pour billions of
pounds more into saving failing euro economies like Greece and Portugal after
the Government's decision to lend GBP 7billion to debtladen Ireland was
understood to be hardening public opinion in favour of withdrawal.

But opponents of European Union are also angry about the threat to Britain's
democracy by meddling Brussels bureaucracy.

Critics claim Britain's Government has lost control of immigration due to
freedom of movement laws for EU citizens.

And the country's law and order - and basic common sense - are being undermined
by the European Convention on Human Rights, which all EU states are obliged to
sign up to.

Nigel Farage, Euro-MP and leader of the UK Independence Party, said:

"I am delighted to support the Daily Express in its new campaign to liberate our
country from the clutches of the European Union. It follows in a fine tradition
in which your newspaper has fought for Britain's liberty.

"I am convinced that the vast majority of ordinary men and women of this country
will support your campaign. It will no doubt make the political establishment
very uncomfortable. Good, so it should."

Douglas Carswell, Tory MP for Clacton and a leading critic of the EU at
Westminster, said: "There are millions of people across the country who will be
right behind this campaign.

"This is a watershed. For the first time, a popular, mainstream newspaper has
said we should get out of the EU. It is a significant moment.

"It shows that supporting British withdrawal from the EU is not the preserve of
a minority sect but has become part of mainstream opinion.

When my grandparents' generation was locked into the EU, they were told it was
about the economy.

"But our priority today should be trade with the world, not just the member
states of the EU."

Lord Stoddart of Swindon, an Independent Labour peer who began campaigning
against the Common Market in 1962, also welcomed the Daily Express stance.

"We should never have joined in the first place. It is extremely expensive, and
becoming more expensive all the time, " he said.

"What we should be doing is rebuilding the Commonwealth and going out to build
trade with emerging economies like China, India and Brazil. That is where the
future for a good, independent country lies. We are, ratchet by ratchet, losing
our sovereignty.

"Our Parliament loses power every time an agreement is made.

The EU is an undemocratic and dangerous construct."

Leading Eurosceptic campaign groups were last night swinging behind the Daily
Express campaign.

James Pryor, chief executive of the EU Referendum Campaign, said: "When Britain
is broke, can we really afford to send GBP 48million a day to Brussels? Around
70 per cent of our laws are now made in Brussels and that is just not
democratic.

"The financial crisis over the last 10 days has really woken people up to the
scandal of the EU."

¬To print off more copies of our voucher, go to the website at
www.express.co.uk/europe or join the campaign online at
www.express.co.uk/web/europecrusade

Should Britain withdraw from the EU?

NO: 0901 030 8345 No text DXTHURNO to 80088

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Join our crusade to pull Britain out of the EU

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 776  words


A HUGE groundswell of support was last night gathering behind the Daily Express
crusade for Britain to quit the European Union.

Senior MPs, peers and campaign groups acclaimed this newspaper's stand against
the sprawling Brussels super-state as a turning point in the battle to win back
Britain's independence.

And Eurosceptic critics of UK membership said the growing financial crisis among
the euro nations this week - threatening to cost British taxpayers billions of
pounds - has overwhelmingly confirmed the case for British withdrawal.

Philip Davies, Conservative MP for Shipley and a founding member of the Better
Off Out group of MPs and peers, led the praise for our crusade last night.

He said: "I think it's fantastic that the Daily Express sees such a positive
future for our country. Britain should be developing trade with China, India,
South American and emerging countries in Africa rather than being part of an
inwardlooking, backward-looking protection racket designed to prop up
inefficient European businesses and French farmers.

"As a nation built on trade, we should be ashamed to be members of the EU. It is
a major breakthrough for a national newspaper to support the case for British
withdrawal.

"The Daily Express and the rest of public opinion are way ahead of a lot of
politicians."

The spiralling cost of Britain's EU membership - expected to exceed GBP 6billion
in net contributions alone next year - was last night being cited as a clear-cut
reason for Britain to walk away from the discredited European club.

And the warning earlier this week that UK taxpayers may have to pour billions of
pounds more into saving failing euro economies like Greece and Portugal after
the Government's decision to lend GBP 7billion to debtladen Ireland was
understood to be hardening public opinion in favour of withdrawal.

But opponents of European Union are also angry about the threat to Britain's
democracy by meddling Brussels bureaucracy.

Critics claim Britain's Government has lost control of immigration due to
freedom of movement laws for EU citizens.

And the country's law and order - and basic common sense - are being undermined
by the European Convention on Human Rights, which all EU states are obliged to
sign up to.

Nigel Farage, Euro-MP and leader of the UK Independence Party, said:

"I am delighted to support the Daily Express in its new crusade to liberate our
country from the clutches of the European Union. It follows in a fine tradition
in which your newspaper has fought for Britain's liberty.

"I am convinced that the vast majority of ordinary men and women of this country
will support your crusade. It will no doubt make the political establishment
very uncomfortable. Good, so it should."

Douglas Carswell, Tory MP for Clacton and a leading critic of the EU at
Westminster, said: "There are millions of people across the country who will be
right behind this crusade.

"This is a watershed. For the first time, a popular, mainstream newspaper has
said we should get out of the EU. It is a significant moment.

"It shows that supporting British withdrawal from the EU is not the preserve of
a minority sect but has become part of mainstream opinion.

When my grandparents' generation was locked into the EU, they were told it was
about the economy.

"But our priority today should be trade with the world, not just the member
states of the EU."

Lord Stoddart of Swindon, an Independent Labour peer who began campaigning
against the Common Market in 1962, also welcomed the Daily Express crusade.

"We should never have joined in the first place. It is extremely expensive, and
becoming more expensive all the time, " he said.

"What we should be doing is rebuilding the Commonwealth and going out to build
trade with emerging economies like China, India and Brazil. That is where the
future for a good, independent country lies. We are, ratchet by ratchet, losing
our sovereignty.

"Our Parliament loses power every time an agreement is made.

The EU is an undemocratic and dangerous construct."

Leading Eurosceptic campaign groups were last night swinging behind the Daily
Express crusade.

James Pryor, chief executive of the EU Referendum Campaign, said: "When Britain
is broke, can we really afford to send GBP 48million a day to Brussels? Around
70 per cent of our laws are now made in Brussels and that is just not
democratic.

"The financial crisis over the last 10 days has really woken people up to the
scandal of the EU."

¬To print off more copies of our voucher, go to www.express.co.uk/europe or join
the crusade online now at www.express.co.uk/web/europecrusade

Should Britain withdraw from the EU?

NO: 0901 030 8345 No text DXTHURNO to 80088

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Greedy Eurocrats get 3.7% pay rise

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 331  words


FURY erupted last night after greedy Eurocrats awarded themselves a massive pay
rise to snatch even more money from British taxpayers.

About 50,000 European Commission civil servants will pocket an inflation busting
3.7 per cent rise - at a cost of at least GBP 80million - making each one richer
by thousands of pounds a year.

The windfall will include six months paid retrospectively which could push the
total over GBP 100million.

The European Union's 27 governments wanted to limit the pay rise to 1.85 per
cent but the European Court of Justice - whose judges are also on the EU payroll
- says they "exceeded powers".

The green light for the pay rise comes as Britain sheds civil service jobs and
freezes or cuts pay.

Last month, Chancellor George Osborne announced almost 500,000 public sector
jobs were being axed.

Yesterday's court ruling heaps further pressure on Prime Minister David Cameron
who is already facing a Tory rebellion over Europe, with up to 100 MPs set to
challenge him in an attempt to stop further powers being ceded to Brussels. Last
night UKIP called on the Mr Cameron to block the rise. UKIP MEP Marta Andreasen
said: "The whole 2.9 per cent rise of the EU budget agreed by him is ignored by
this judgment.

This pay rise will break that agreement."

The settlement is based on 2008 figures, when economic conditions were much
better. Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said:

"This goes to show how out of touch Brussels is. EU officials seem to think it
is a good time to sue governments for even more."

A Commission spokesman said staff in Brussels would be suffering a two per cent
cut in purchasing power and must keep pace with 2.4 per cent inflation.

Tiny Iceland, which applied to join the European Union over a year ago, may now
think again.

President Olafur Grimsson said yesterday: "We have seen one euro country after
another in serious difficulty. The advantages of a different currency look less
clear now. Opposition towards EU membership has grown."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday

Politics: Ukip MEP expelled for Nazi insult in EU chamber

BYLINE: Ian Traynor Brussels

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 93 words


Martin Schulz, a German social democrat, was criticising the EU's attempts to
bail out Ireland when a British MEP interrupted him. "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein
Fuhrer," yelled Godfrey Bloom, the UK Independence party's MEP for Yorkshire and
North Lincolnshire, using the Nazi slogan to insult the leader of the European
socialists in the Strasbourg chamber. Jerzy Buzek, the Polish president of the
European parliament, demanded Bloom apologise and retract his remarks. But the
Ukip MEP said: "He is an undemocratic fascist." Bloom was expelled from the
chamber.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday

Lib Dems come off worst as political donations plummet

BYLINE: Polly Curtis Whitehall correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 468 words


The Conservatives' dependence on wealthy individuals and Labour's reliance on
the unions for funding have both hardened in the aftermath of the general
election as political donations have plummeted, new figures have revealed.

Political parties received £7.2m in donations in the third quarter of 2010
compared with £26.26m in the previous quarter, the latest figures from the
Electoral Commission published show.

The Conservatives were given £1.065m by David Rowland, the secretive property
tycoon who was poised to become party treasurer in the summer but withdrew,
blaming business commitments, after reports of internal wranglings with other
major donors in the party.

Labour received £818,366 from Unite, the union that also provided large sums to
fund Ed Miliband's leadership campaign and that this week appointed Len
McCluskey as general secretary, promising to lead an "alliance of resistance"
against the cuts.

All three parties suffered large declines in donations after the election but
the Liberal Democrats suffered the greatest fall. In the last quarter, from
April to June, which covered the election, the party received just over £2m, but
in the following quarter, the coalition's first full three months in government,
Nick Clegg's party got just £350,645.

The UK Independence party outdid it in fundraising, raking in £354,000.

The Liberal Democrats will now face one of the toughest funding periods as they
have also lost the majority of their state funding, granted to opposition
parties, since going into government.

Rowland's gift of £1.065m is his largest to date to the Conservatives. They also
received £50,000 from Jeremy Isaacs, former chief executive of Lehman Brothers
Europe, and another £50,000 from John E Dodd, owner of the Glenogil shooting
estate and co-founder of Artemis Fund Management.

Labour received £1.9m from the unions and £185,275 from individual donors.
Alastair Campbell gave £10,000 and David Blunkett gave £2,365.

The committee on standards in public life is currently conducting a new inquiry
into political funding and talks are due to reopen between the parties next year
about reforming funding in order to clean up a system that has been hit by
accusations of a "big donor culture" - of both unions and businesses -
corrupting the political process.

On Tuesday Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting millionaire and previously the
biggest donor to the Tories, told the inquiry that it was "absolutely natural
and unobjectionable" for donors to attempt to influence politicians.

All political parties have now made submissions to the inquiry, each
acknowledging the need for reform but attempting to protect their main sources
of income.

Captions:

7.2m

The amount, in pounds, donated to political parties in the third quarter of
2010. The Liberal Democrats received £350,645

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                 First Edition

High Street Ken's Diary

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 710 words


The as-yet-incomplete "History Of Ed Vaizey In 100 Gaffes" acquired a new entry
this week, when the bungle-prone GQ columnist and Culture Minister mistook the
British Museum's 3,000-year-old Irish warrior bracelet (worth an estimated
£95,000) for a Kinder Egg prize, and slipped it onto his sizeable wrist.
Appalled staff informed him that the bracelet was so delicate it should only be
handled with gloves. Vaizey displayed his glaring ignorance of Bronze Age
culture while visiting the museum to announce a 15 per cent budget cut to the
Portable Antiquities Service, which helps keep such treasures in the UK. His
critics have one thing to thank him for, however: by roughly handling such a
precious object, he provides opponents of the arts cuts with a perfect metaphor
to include in some leftist verbatim play.

So-called synergies between Richard "I've got so much money it's ridiculous"
Desmond's Daily Express and his latest acquisition, Five, resulted in at least
one scoop days after he took charge of terrestrial telly's neglected youngest
child: Ian Wright, claimed the paper, "stormed out" of Live From Studio Five
after being told his contract wouldn't be renewed. Yesterday, however, a modest
retraction: "We accept that Mr Wright did not 'storm out'," says the Express.
"He was asked not to attend the television studio." Sacked and slandered, then.
Tough week. Desmond reportedly asked the show's remaining presenters, Jayne
Middlemiss and Kate Walsh, to wear short skirts in future. Wright, no fashion
slouch, is more fond of trilby hats and garish pinstripe. Might his refusal to
wear a skirt have been the real reason for his abrupt departure?

For an institution founded to prevent its spread, the European Parliament is
remarkably rife with accusations of fascism. Yesterday it was reliably barmy
UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom who barked "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Fuehrer!" during a
speech by Martin Schulz of Germany's Social Democrats. Bloom was ordered from
the chamber, much to the chagrin of the Dutch Freedom Party, whose own Daniël
van der Stoep was once called a fascist by Schulz, who escaped censure.
Meanwhile, Bloom's most vocal supporter in the chamber during the resulting
ruckus was none other than beleaguered BNP leader Nick Griffin, no stranger to
allegations of fascistic sympathies himself. Sounds like a riot, Strasbourg.
(It's not.)

Miliband (E) isn't the only Red hunting for a new press chief, I see. The
Glazers, owners of Man Utd, are also losing their PR man. Might I recommend the
services of Clapham-based Brighter PR, who are getting used to tough gigs? The
firm is responsible for convincing vacationers to visit South Korea, potential
venue for World War Three, and to fly with Qatar Airways, inadvertent carrier of
the "toner-cartridge" bomb.

Turning disaster to free publicity is second nature to Richard Branson, who
insists he'll honour a pledge to dress as an air hostess and serve on an Air
Asia flight. Branson lost a bet with Air Asia boss and Lotus Racing owner Tony
Fernandes as to whose team would do better in the F1 championship. "I'll do it
in about three months' time," Branson told me, though he won't be undercover. "I
don't think a bearded man of 60 could get away with it. Do you?"

highstreetken@independent.co.uk

Bono and the art of creation

"Creating art that has never been done before is the reason I get out of bed in
the morning," diminutive U2 frontman Paul "Bono" Hewson has informed The New
York Times, before comparing his latest work with that of Rilke, William Blake,
Wim Wenders and Roy Lichtenstein. The project in question? Spider-Man, the
musical, which begins previews on Broadway next week after a postponement for
extra rehearsals. The man Tony Blair thought would make a better Prime Minister
than Gordon Brown - a singer, activist, hotelier, sometime newspaper editor and
leading investor in "arguably the worst run institutional fund of any size in
the United States" - went on, "If the only wows you get from Spider-Man are
visual, special-effect, spectacular-type wows, and not wows from the soul and
the heart, we will all think that we've failed." Perhaps anticipating more
critical "hmms" than "wows", Paul plans to be in Australia when the curtain
rises on the first performance.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

EIN VOLK.. EIN REICH.. EIN FUHRER*;
UKIP MEP BLOOM EJECTED FOR NAZI SLOGAN RANT AT GERMAN

BYLINE: TOM MCTAGUE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 261 words


A SOBER debate at the EU degenerated into chaos yesterday when UKIP's Godfrey
Bloom screamed a Nazi slur at a German MEP.

Angry Mr Bloom yelled "ein volk, ein Reich, ein Fuhrer" which was one of
Hitler's slogans. The insult, "one people, one empire, one leader", was hurled
at Martin Schulz at the parliament in Strasbourg.

Mr Bloom was promptly ejected and now faces disciplinary action. His rant was
sparked by Social Democrat leader Mr Schulz's calls for more Euro solidarity to
deal with Ireland's crisis.

MEPs chanted "out, out, out" at Mr Bloom and parliament president Jerzy Buzek
told him to apologise. The Eurosceptic, who represents Yorkshire and North
Lincoln-shire, was kicked out when he replied: "The views expressed by Herr
Schulz make the case. He is an undemocratic fascist."

Outside the chamber, Mr Bloom said: "My father, as a Spitfire pilot, fought for
freedom against Nazi domination of Europe. As an MEP, I will fight against the
destruction of democracy across Europe."

He added Mr Schulz, who in 2003 was likened to a Nazi concentration camp guard
by Silvio Berlusconi, was a fanatic.

Mr Schulz said Bloom's attack was an "unworthy insult" and UKIP leader Nigel
Farage said that while the jibe was rash, his party "fully support his
sentiments about an undemocratic Europe".

A HOMELESS German has been fined pounds 800 for rolling up his sleeves on a hot
day and revealing a Nazi tattoo. The 41-yearold man told a Dusseldorf court that
he'd forgotten about the symbol he'd had done when he was "younger and drunk".

*One people, one empire, one leader

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INSULT Mr Bloom faces action after slur

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Nazi slur by UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 81 words


A UKIP member was thrown out of a debate on the euro crisis for hurling Nazi
slurs at a German MEP yesterday.

Yorkshire and North Lincs member Godfrey Bloom yelled "ein volk, ein Reich, ein
fuhrer" at Martin Schulz after he called for greater solidarity.

The phrase, meaning "one people, one empire, one leader", was a Nazi wartime
motto.

Stunned MEPs began chanting "out, out, out" in unison at the meeting in
Strasbourg, France. Bloom said later: "I will fight the destruction of
democracy."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 25, 2010 Thursday 5:16 PM GMT

Will Howard Flight defect to UKIP?

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 245 words


Two days before the announcement of Howard Flight's peerage, a UKIP politician
told me that he was praying for Flight's entry into the Lords. The reason? UKIP
believed that there was a strong chance that Flight could defect from the
Tories. Indeed, it has been informally courting him for some time.

Howard Flight's tongue sometimes runs ahead of his brain, but at least you know
where you are with him. He's an ardent tax-cutter who wants a referendum on our
EU membership and believes that the welfare state changes behaviour for the
worse. His views are sometimes badly articulated, but they are only loony and
extreme if you're a member of the liberal political elite. Go into pubs across
Britain and his arguments are commonplace. So you can imagine why Flight is
hated by Cameron's politically correct inner circle - and also why he might find
life within UKIP so much happier.

Of course, Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, wouldn't have liked talk of
"breeding". But Farage is a believer in free speech; the back cover of his
autobigraphy quotes him in a huge point size saying: "Freedom of speech.. is
absolute or it is nothing." So I can't see Flight's gaffe making him less
welcome.

A lot depends on how brutally Downing Street treats Flight over the next 24
hours. But, regardless, the moment Lord Flight is a life peer, he will be free
to choose his whip according to conscience, not expediency - and the appeal of a
team that shares his views could be irresistible.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          November 24, 2010 Wednesday

Major donors to parties 'expect to shape policy'

BYLINE: Polly Curtis Whitehall correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 272 words


People who make large donations to political parties expect to gain influence
and shape future policy, and it is "absolutely natural and unobjectionable" for
them to do so, a major donor to the Conservative party said yesterday.

Stuart Wheeler, who at one point made a single donation of £5m, called for the
cap on donations to be lifted and dismissed allegations that the big donor
culture had made politics less fair. "Fairness isn't the be all and end all," he
said.

He also claimed it was an assault on the freedom of the wealthy to prevent them
spending their money as they pleased.

Wheeler, a spread-betting tycoon who provided large donations to the Tories
under William Hague in the early 2000s, has since fallen out with the party. A
fervent Eurosceptic, he was expelled last year after donating £200,000 to Ukip.
Earlier this year he formed the Trust party, promising to restore faith in the
political system after the expenses crisis, and stood in the election.

He told an inquiry into party funding by the committee on standards in public
life: "Obviously a party is going to take more notice of somebody who might give
them lots of money than somebody who won't, but that would be the same in any
walk of life.

"First of all it is natural . . . and secondly I don't think it's wrong. If
someone minds enough about policy to be willing to give them an awful lot of
money then he or she is probably worth listening to. It's going to happen
anyway."

The committee on standards in public life is currently conducting an inquiry
into party funding. Nick Clegg has promised to reopen party talks next year with
an aim to agree reforms.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                          November 24, 2010 Wednesday

Donations to political parties plummet after election

BYLINE: Polly Curtisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 858 words

ABSTRACT

Parties received [#xfffd]26m between April and June but garnered only
[#xfffd]7.2m in the following quarter

FULL TEXT

The Conservatives' dependence on wealthy individuals and Labour's reliance on
the unions for funding have both hardened in the aftermath of the general
election as political donations have plummeted, new figures published today
revealed.

Political parties received [#xfffd]7.2m in donations in the third quarter of
2010 compared with [#xfffd]26.26m in the previous quarter, the latest figures
from the Electoral Commission published show.

The Conservatives were given a [#xfffd]1.065m gift from David Rowland, the
secretive property tycoon who had been poised to become party treasurer in the
summer, but withdrew citing business commitments after reports of internal
wranglings with other major donors in the party.

Labour received [#xfffd]818,366 from Unite, the union that also provided large
sums to fund Ed Miliband's leadership campaign and who this week appointed Len
McCluskey as general secretary, .

All three parties suffered large declines in donations in the aftermath of the
election but the Liberal Democrats suffered the greatest fall. In the last
quarter, from April to June, which covered the election, the party received just
over [#xfffd]2m, but in the following quarter, the coalition's first full three
months in government, Nick Clegg's party received just [#xfffd]350,645. The UK
Independence party outdid them in fundraising, raking in [#xfffd]354,000.

The Liberal Democrats will now face one of the toughest funding periods as they
have also lost the majority of their state funding, granted to opposition
parties, since going into government.

Rowland's gift of [#xfffd]1.065m is his largest to date to the Conservatives.

They also received [#xfffd]50,000 from Jeremy Isaacs, former chief executive of
Lehman Brothers Europe, and another [#xfffd]50,000 from John E Dodd, owner of
the Glenogil shooting estate and co-founder of Artemis Fund Management.

William Cook LTD, which was embroiled in one of the first sleaze rows of the
coalition government when it admitted it had a business interest in the
government scrapping an [#xfffd]80m loan to Forgemasters in Sheffield and had
successfully lobbied for the government to scrap the loan, gave [#xfffd]3,000 on
5 July.

Labour received [#xfffd]1.9m form the unions and [#xfffd]185,275 from individual
donors. Some Labour grandees gave money to shore up the cause.

Alastair Campbell, Tony Blair's spin doctor in Number 10, gave [#xfffd]10,000,
former home secretary David Blunkett gave [#xfffd]2,365 and Vera Baird, who lost
her Redcar seat at the election gave [#xfffd]5,150.

The committee on standards in public life is currently conducting a new inquiry
into political funding and talks are due to reopen between the parties next year
about reforming funding in order to clean up a system that has been hit by
accusations of a "big donor culture" - of both unions and businessmen -
corrupting the political process.

Yesterday Stuart Wheeler, the spread-betting millionaire and previously the
biggest donor to the Tories, told the inquiry that it was .

All political parties have now made submissions to the inquiry, each
acknowledging the need for reform, but attempting to protect their main sources
of income. Labour is calling for tougher limits on spending on campaigning all
year round and not just ahead of an election and for a new cap on donations to
be just [#xfffd]500 instead of the [#xfffd]50,000 limit currently being
discussed.

Labour insiders privately acknowledge that this is because the Conservatives
have a large number of donors around the level of [#xfffd]50,000 and that they
want affiliation fees from the unions to be outside of that cap.

The Conservatives call for the link between the unions and Labour to be severed
by giving all union members a right to opt in if they want to pay the political
levy instead of the current opt-out. They should also be able to decide which
party gets the money instead of the default position whereby it goes to Labour.
Any cap on donations should apply to the unions as well, the Tory submission
says.

The submissions will give a sense of foreboding to the talks. Previous rounds
have stumbled on similar issues.

The Electoral Commission said that there had been an increase in the number of
donations reported late, and that parties would face penalties in the future for
late reporting. The Conservatives reported 27 donations late, totalling
[#xfffd]191,088, the Lib Dems reported 22 donations worth [#xfffd]67,905 late
and Labour reported three donations totalling [#xfffd]7,500 late.

Peter Wardle, the commission's chief executive, said: "There was an increase in
the number and value of late reported donations and borrowing for the third
quarter of 2010 compared with the second quarter of this year. Some of these
arose when parties corrected reporting omissions identified by the commission
during enforcement case work.

"From 1 December we will be able to use a wider range of sanctions and penalties
to deal with parties who fail to comply with their statutory obligations
including the failure to report donations on time."

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 24, 2010 Wednesday 11:34 PM GMT

It's fine to call Eurosceptics Nazis, but woe betide them if they return the
insult

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 625 words


Godfrey Bloom was thrown out of the chamber of the European Parliament today
after being gratuitously rude to the Euro-Socialist leader, Martin Schulz. Irked
by Shulz's complaint that the UK was standing in the way of European
integration, the UKIP MEP burst out "Ein Volk, ein Reich, ein Fhrer!" There are
times when British Eurosceptics cringe at the behaviour of one of their
countrymen, and this was one of them.

Bloom was out of order: whatever else he is, Schulz is no Nazi. But the
parliamentary authorities then reacted extraordinarily. The acting Speaker,
Edward McMillan-Scott, told his fellow Yorkshire MEP that if he didn't
apologise, he'd be escorted from the room. Bloom replied that the only people
who had the right to remove him were his constituents.

McMillan-Scott then called for a vote on whether to eject the red-faced former
territorial. The motion was overwhelmingly carried, and Bloom was marched out,
wearing with a thunderous expression.

Several aspects of this episode should alarm us. First, there is the democratic
objection. Surely it is up to the electorate to decide who sits in a
legislature. If Bloom can be denied his place by his fellow MEPs, what is to
stop the federalist majority voting to expel every Eurosceptic?

Then there is the liberal objection. In a free society, the right to say what
you will trumps the right not to be offended. We should allow people to be
ignorant, ill-mannered, obnoxious; to condemn themselves by their boorishness.

Above all, though, there is the sheer one-sidedness. I've blogged before about
the way in which Euro-integrationists routinely dismiss their opponents as
Nazis. The leader of the European Liberals, Graham Watson,has said that
Eurosceptics put him in mind of "the National Socialists in the German
Reichstag". In the run-up to the French referendum on the European Constitution,
Margot Wallstrm, then Sweden's Commissioner, travelled to the Theresiendstadt
concentration camp to and told "No" voters that this was where their ideology
would lead. Only last week, Herman Van Rompuy, the Euro-President, said "we have
together to fight the danger of a new Euro-scepticism. Fear leads to egoism,
egoism leads to nationalism, and nationalism leads to war".

Indeed, it wasn't so long ago that one MEP, furious because Eurosceptics were
calling for a referendum, said this:

"During the Weimar Republic, some pursued a strategy of trying to shout down
their political opponents. That was how Adolf Hitler behaved, and it was how I
felt today".

The author of those words? Martin Schulz. (You can watch him speak them here).

Now Mr Shulz was being silly as well as rude: calling for a referendum is not
the same thing as bringing down the Weimar Republic. But no one suggested that
he should be forced to apologise, let alone expelled from the hemicycle.
Freedom, after all, includes the freedom to make stupid comparisons.

Good manners can't be enforced by rules; they should be natural. So let me end -
since I have Ireland on the brain - with a piece of advice from Godfrey's
bowler-hatted lookalike and namesake, Leopold Bloom, the protagonist of Joyce's
Ulysses:

-Force, hatred, history, all that. That's not life for men and women, insult and
hatred. And everybody knows that it's the opposite of that that is really life.
-What? Says Alf.                                          -Love, says Bloom. I
mean the opposite of hatred.

UPDATE:                     Thanks for drawing my attention to this clip, in
which Schulz can be heard calling a Dutch MEP a fascist because he, er, asked
President Barroso to publish his receipts online. I mean, sauce for the goose,
and all that...

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    November 24, 2010 Wednesday 10:45 AM GMT

Tory MEPs elect Martin Callanan as leader - another tool of the EU

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 253 words


I'll admit that Martin Callanan, the new Tory leader in the European Parliament,
is an improvement on his predecessor. But that doesn't mean he'll do anything to
liberate Britain from European control - in fact, he actively works to create
new European laws.

Genuine Eurosceptics in the Parliament avoid writing "reports" - the way the
Parliament pushes for new regulations to reach the statute books. No UKIP
politicians write them, and nor do the most Eurosceptic of the Tories, because
they believe that these should be created by nation states. But Callanan, who
was considered Eurosceptic when he first entered the Parliament over a decade
ago, has become a tool of the European Project.

His accomplishments include a "report" proposing red tape to increase "the
Community's integrated approach to reduce CO2 emissions" and proposing a motion
complaining about the lack of an "ambitious and binding deal on a post-2012
climate treaty". He's also no free-marketeer: one motion he signed called on the
European Union to spend no less than 25 billion "towards developing countries'
mitigation efforts and adaptation".

True, he was the best of the candidates who stood for the post of leader, and he
did support the Tories' exit from the European People's Party. But the public is
much more Eurosceptic than he is, with a clear majority now wanting to leave the
EU. If the Tories, under his leadership in Brussels, are going to continue with
their pathetic support of EU membership, they really don't deserve our support.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday

Labour ahead in poll as Miliband returns

BYLINE: Julian Glover

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 403 words


Labour has pulled ahead sharply in the latest Guardian/ICM poll, as both
coalition parties lose support. The findings, published as Ed Miliband returns
to Westminster after paternity leave, suggest only a minority of voters believe
the coalition is taking Britain in the right direction.

Labour support in a theoretical immediate election has risen to 38%, two points
higher than last month and the best in any ICM poll since Gordon Brown cancelled
the planned 2007 general election.

Conservative support has dropped three points to 36%, while the Liberal
Democrats have fallen two points to 14% - the party's lowest score in the
Guardian/ICM series since May 2001, and the lowest in any ICM poll since October
2007.

While 91% of the 2010 Conservative voters would vote that way again, and 93% of
2010 Labour voters, only 47% of 2010 Lib Dem voters plan to do the same.

The impact of the party's U-turn on tuition fees is clear. Lib Dem support is
now lower among voters aged 18-24 than in any other age group. By contrast, in
the final election Guardian/ICM poll, Lib Dem support was highest among young
voters.

The third party has seen its ICM rating sink from a high of 31% during the
general election to 21% after it and 14% now. Some pollsters at yesterday's
British Polling Council conference said the party's rating was artificially low
and it would perform better in a general election.

Smaller parties have benefited more than Labour from declining Tory and Lib Dem
support. Support for "others" is up three points to 12%, including 3% for
Scottish and Welsh nationalists, 3% for Ukip and 2% for the Greens.

Overall, 46% of voters think government policies are taking Britain in the right
direction, while 37% disagree. Of those who voted Lib Dem in 2010, 42% approve
of the direction of government policies.

Asked whether they think the cuts are going too far, not far enough or are about
right, 45% of voters say too far, three points lower than last month. A further
35% think the scale of cuts is about right, down one point. The proportion of
people who think the cuts do not go far enough has risen to 14%, up from 8% last
month.

* ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,000 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 19-21 November 2010. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday

Party funding: major donors expect to gain influence and shape policy, inquiry
told

BYLINE: Polly Curtisguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 557 words

ABSTRACT

Stuart Wheeler, who has donated large amounts of money to both the Conservatives
and Ukip, dismisses allegations that the big donor culture has made politics
less fair

FULL TEXT

People who make large donations to political parties expect to gain influence
and shape future policy and it is "absolutely natural and unobjectionable" for
them to do so, a former major Tory donor told an inquiry today.

Stuart Wheeler, the self-professed largest ever donor, at one point making a
single donation of £5m to the Conservative party, today called for the cap on
donations to be lifted and dismissed allegations that the big donor culture has
made politics less fair, saying: "Fairness isn't the be all and end all."

He also claimed it was "an assault on freedom" of the wealthy to prevent them
spending their money as they please.

Wheeler, a spread-betting tycoon who provided large donations in the early 2000s
to the Conservatives under William Hague, has more recently fallen out with the
Tories. A fervent Euro-sceptic he was expelled from the Conservative party last
year after donating £200,000 to Ukip. Earlier this year he formed the Trust
party, promising to restore faith in the political system after the expenses
crisis, and stood in the election.

He told a inquiry by the committee on standards in public life, into party
funding today: "Obviously a party is going to take more notice of somebody who
might give them lots of money then somebody who won't, but that would be the
same in any walk of life. If you were minded to give quite a bit of money to a
charity you would expect them to give more notice of you than they would to
somebody who gave them £5 then wanted to go and discuss the charities policy.
They wouldn't be able to discuss the charities policy with everybody who gave
them £5.

"It's absolutely natural whether it's right or wrong. Well first of all it is
natural, it's obviously natural and secondly I don't think it's wrong. If
someone minds enough about policy to be willing to give them an awful lot of
money then he or she is probably worth listening to. It's going to happen
anyway. There's no possibility of that not happening, but I don't see why it's
wrong."

He said that it would be wrong to award peerages or contracts to people who have
given donations, but that the fact that they had influence was unobjectionable.
He claimed he told William Hague prior to making his biggest donations, of £5m
in 2001, that he would turn a peerage down if offered one.

Asked by one member of the committee, Dame Denise Platt, whether that meant
politics became a rich person's game, he said: "No it's just that a rich person
is going to have his or her views heard ... But they shouldn't change their [the
politician's] policy if they don't agree with it."

Asked what reforms he would propose, he said he would free the system of
regulation and remove a cap which prevents donations... "Broadly speaking people
are entitled to do what they like with their money. To say although you've got
all that money, as I had at that time, you can't do what you like with it, it's
in a way... an assault on freedom."

The committee on standards in public life, chaired by Sir Christopher Kelly, is
currently conducting an inquiry into party funding. Nick Clegg has promised to
reopen party talks next year with an aim to agree reforms.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 23, 2010 Tuesday 7:03 AM GMT

Today Tory MEPs will elect another pro-EU leader. Who is to blame?

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 509 words


I was over the moon when Timothy Kirkhope announced his resignation as the
Tories' leader in the European Parliament. He is an ardent Europhile who, I kid
you not, had been demanding that the EU take more of a role in our economic
policy. But the euphoria only lasted on a few minutes: I quickly realised that
the only possible outcome of the leadership election - which occurs today - will
be the election of another man who thinks that British independence would be
madness.

The only people with a vote are Tory MEPs, who are overwhelming Europhile.
Remarkably, given that most of the British public want to leave the EU, only two
of the 25 current Tory MEPs favour withdrawal - Daniel Hannan and Roger Helmer -
while a handful, most notably Nirj Deva and Syed Kamall, are consistently robust
in their criticism of the emerging superstate.

Needless to say, none of the three candidates standing for the leadership wants
withdrawal. The worst is the arch-Europhile Richard Ashworth, who campaigned for
the Tories to remain with his integrationist friends in the European People's
Party and who opposes the abolition of the fraud-ridden Common Agricultural
Policy. He has even defended the existence of a second European Parliament in
picturesque Strasbourg (at a cost to taxpayers of 170 million a year), feebly
saying that removing it would "require a lot of concessions".

His key rival, Charles Tannock, is a free thinker, disagreeing with his party's
support for Turkish membership of the EU. But he is a committed integrationist
and at a dinner in Brussels hosted by the Eurosceptic economist Ruth Lea I
witnessed him squirm and squeal at any suggestion that power should be taken
away from the EU.

The final candidate, Martin Callanan, was at least supportive of leaving the
EPP. That may have damaged his chances in this election, although some of
colleagues have been impressed by his work as chief whip. However, despite being
slightly less pro-integration than the others, he remains committed to British
membership of the union, arguing that it is in our best interests - and
therefore is at odds with the desire of both the public and most of the Tory
rank and file.

There is one person who could have changed the make-up of this election. David
Cameron could have granted ordinary Tory members the right to choose the
candidates in the last European election (instead of rigging the process, to
keep uncumbents safe in their seats). He could also have given the members the
right to choose the European leader (after all, they already get a partial say
in the choice of leader back home).

Cameron chose not to help because he wanted to keep hostility to the EU off the
agenda. That's a shame, because the lack of a properly Eurosceptic European
leader is bad for the morale of the party's grass roots. Whoever wins today, the
result will undoubtedly help UKIP at the next European elections. UKIP could
have been neutralised, but now Nigel Farage and his team will be able to argue,
quite plausibly, that vote for the Conservatives is a wasted one.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Let me oversee the bailout and then we'll have election, Irish PM promises;
Ireland

BYLINE: Laura Dixon ; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 2076 words


Ireland's fragile Government came within hours of collapse yesterday as the
Prime Minister staved off demands for an election until the new year, amid
repeated calls for his resignation.

Speaking after an emergency Cabinet meeting, and flanked by ashen-faced
colleagues, Brian Cowen, the Taoiseach, said that the national interest demanded
that he remain in place to negotiate the four-year austerity package and
international rescue deal. Mr Cowen has staked his remaining political
credibility on securing enough support in the Irish Parliament to pass an
emergency budget, which will reduce ¤6 billion (£5.1 billion) from the 2011
budget.

His gamble comes despite the apparent defection of two independent members of
parliament on whom the Government currently depends to pass legislation.

Resisting calls from his own supporters to quit, Mr Cowen said there would
instead be an election early in the new year. "The interests of the electorate,
of all the people, will not be served by delaying or worse still casting into
doubt the steps which are necessary to secure our economic and financial
futures."

Responding to suggestions that a snap election could delay the bailout and cause
further market turmoil, he added: "This goes beyond any personal consideration
of mine."

In a day of turmoil, Mr Cowen had just left a meeting of his Fianna Fáil party,
where several colleagues said he had lost credibility, was not trusted by the
nation and must quit immediately for the good of the country. Noel O'Flynn, a
senior party figure. said: "The people of the country do not trust him ... I
believe his credibility is in tatters now and the honourable thing for Cowen to
do is to stand down."

Mr Cowen was also denounced by the Greens, the junior party in his coalition,
who announced that they intend to force a collapse of the Government in January
after the budget and bailout had been approved. John Gormley, the Green Party
leader, said that his allies had no choice but to leave. "The past week has been
a traumatic one for the Irish electorate. People feel misled and betrayed," he
said.

The chance of widespread industrial action in Ireland appeared to be growing,
with the head of the European Trade Union Confederation denouncing the bailout.
"I don't call it help, I call it punishment," John Monks, the former head of the
British Trade Union Confederation, said. Mr Monks was in Lisbon to support a
general strike tomorrow, the first since 1988, to protest at measures that would
reduce public sector salaries, raise taxes and curb welfare spending. About 50
protesters broke into the grounds of government buildings at lunchtime while
others, more resigned, stood outside waving flags and placards.

Some eurosceptic British politicians have seized the crisis to demand that the
UK use the opportunity to plan for and encourage the end of the single currency.

Douglas Carswell, a Tory MP, wrote on his blog that Ireland would always suffer
so long as it stayed in the euro. "Of course it is in our interest to see
Ireland prosper. Which is precisely why we must be prepared to help her escape
from the euro," he wrote. "Until Ireland does so, she will either remain
uncompetitive or suffer a fall in per capita GDP - or both. Yet today's bailout
means Ireland moves in the wrong direction. Rather than exit the euro,
accompanying the bailout are new rules on pan-EU economic government.

"Instead of helping the Irish people, which is the right thing to do, we are
bailing out her politicians from the consequences of their euro folly. It is
worth remembering that the Irish people rejected precisely those EU treaty
arrangements under which the bailout is now being imposed."

Lord Pearson of Rannock, the former leader of UKIP, told the House of Lords that
"the euro was always destined for disaster". He continued: "Instead of throwing
billions upon billions of good money after bad ... It is just one small step
away from the insanity that is the eurozone."

The Labour MP Gisela Stuart said that traditional IMF rescue packages always
contained three elements: reducing public spending, increasing tax rates and
devaluing currency - but the latter was not possible with the euro. "So the
third element which is essential for its recovery is missing." Leading article,
page 2 Letters, page 27 Business, page 39 Q&A Why is Britain helping to rescue
Ireland? The £7 billion loan looks very neighbourly, but the Chancellor George
Osborne clearly believes that he is acting in the UK's own national interest: an
implosion in the Republic would have knock-on effects for both the UK economy
and its banking system.

Ireland's 4.5 million people consumed three times as many British goods as China
did in 2009, and indeed more than China, Brazil, Russia, and India put together.
Last year Britain sold £15.9 billion of exports to the Irish Republic, nearly
twice as much as it sold to Italy, even though the latter is a far larger
economy. A collapse in consumer demand from Ireland would be particularly keenly
felt in Northern Ireland, where the economy is deeply linked with the Republic.

How badly exposed are UK banks to the situation? An Irish collapse would have
powerful repercussions for the UK banking sector. Royal Bank of Scotland has
amassed £53 billion of loans to Irish customers, while Lloyds Banking Group has
£27 billion outstanding. Two of Northern Ireland''s high street banks are
Irish-owned.

UK taxpayers are already aiding the Irish financial system; nearly £12 billion
of tainted Irish assets held by RBS are covered by the Government's Asset
Protection Scheme, which was set up during the financial crisis.

How much could British taxpayers lose? It's hard to say, given the limited
detail that has emerged so far. But broadly speaking, Britain is providing help
via three channels: its participation in the European Union's (EURO)60 billion
European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism; its shareholding in the
International Monetary Fund, which is providing loans; and a special, bilateral
loan between the UK and Ireland.

There will also be a eurozone loan via the (EURO)440 billion European Financial
Stability Facility, but Britain is not part of this. Total UK lending is
expected to be around £7 billion, so if Ireland failed to pay the money back,
the Treasury would clearly be impacted.

However, if Ireland defaulted, the government loans would be a sideshow compared
with the broader losses that would be suffered by UK banks. These would, once
again, end up being the British Government's responsibility.

What security will Ireland have to put up for its £7 billion loan? That is not
yet clear but the UK could demand some of the trophy assets - bought by Irish
property developers in London before they were hit by the financial crisis - as
security for its loan. Among the most prestigious to be forfeited could be
five-star hotels including Claridge's, the Connaught and the Berkeley, which are
now part of the Irish Government's "bad bank", known as the National Asset
Management Agency.

What form will the UK loan take? There are various ways of lending the money. As
well as a straight loan, one possibility is that the Treasury could open up the
Asset Protection Scheme to Irish banks.

This would allow them to offload billions of pounds of risk to the British
Government, which would boost their own financial strength. Another option would
be allow them to pledge assets denominated in euros against various funding
schemes run by the Bank of England.

Will the rescue stop the rot in the eurozone? Unlikely. Yesterday, José
Sócrates, the Portuguese Prime Minister, said that his country needed no
bailouts and he expected that the Irish package would end uncertainty
surrounding eurozone public debt.

The markets are unconvinced.

The difference between Irish and German government borrowing costs dipped only
slightly yesterday after the bailout package was revealed, suggesting that many
investors remain sceptical that Dublin can cope with its obligations.

Many analysts fear the tensions within the eurozone will pull the currency union
apart.

Money talk: what it means Bailout Not a term that politicians in Greece and
Ireland embrace as it implies that they are getting money for nothing. The
(EURO)110 billion rescue of Greece and the (EURO)80 billion-(EURO)90 billion
rescue of Ireland are packages of loans and back-up facilities aimed at ensuring
the governments have the money to fund their deficits and, in Ireland's case,
shore up their banks.

Sovereign debt This is the debt raised by a government in the financial market
to fund its outgoings. It is different from private sector debts - for example,
those issued by companies in the form of bonds, or household mortgages and
credit card bills. However, the distinction can get blurred. The Irish
Government has guaranteed the obligations of its banking system, meaning its
sovereign liabilities have swelled to a massive scale.

European Financial Stabilisation Mechanism A (EURO)60 billion EU rescue facility
that was created in May, in which the British Government (reluctantly)
participates. It should not be confused with the (EURO)440 billion European
Financial Stability Facility, which is a special loans facility set up by
eurozone members and in which Britain does not participate. Both are being
deployed to help out Ireland. In addition, the IMF is lending the Irish money.

Default This is the direction in which many economists fear Greece and Ireland
are heading. It means failing to meet obligations to pay back interest and
principal on their debts on time.

What happens next... Dream Ireland GDP £143bn Strong annual growth of at least
2.75 per cent helps to push up tax revenues and bring the Government's deficit
down below 3 per cent of gross domestic product on time, while its banks resume
lending after a successful restructuring, aided by the EU and IMF programme.
Ireland's cost of borrowing falls back towards 4 per cent and it pays back all
its loans UK GDP £1.3tr A potent recovery in Ireland could lift British exports
there back towards the £19 billion seen in 2008 and help to boost confidence in
the UK banks, above all Royal Bank of Scotland and Lloyds Banking Group. This
would contribute towards an export-led recovery that the Treasury is hoping for
Euro GDP £7.5tr Germany's already strong economic recovery builds up momentum,
sucking in exports from other eurozone economies. The strong growth lifts tax
revenues and brings down government deficits around the struggling "periphery",
lifting the single currency back above $1.50 and calming fears of a break-up The
middle way The EU-IMF rescue package holds the perimeter against the
"vigilantes" of the financial markets but government borrowing costs remain in
the high single digits. Ultimately Ireland may have to "restructure" some of its
loans, which means that creditors to its stricken banks could see the value of
their bonds pared back Ireland experiences poor growth but the crisis remains
contained, meaning the country's economic performance has a broadly neutral
impact on the UK's economic fortunes. The decision to offer loans of about £7
billion would look broadly vindicated The core eurozone nations of Germany and
France shore up the single currency with "Sellotape and string" in the words of
Charles Grant, of the Centre for European Reform. The currency area holds
together, but not before a series of punishing bailouts and a long period of
painful austerity measures in debt-laden nations Nightmare The Irish
Government's cost of borrowing has blown out to 8.3 per cent, twice the levels
seen at the beginning of the year, on default concerns. If the rescue package
fails to calm market fears, the cost of borrowing could rise yet further, even
approaching the 12 per cent level seen in Greece If Ireland's chaos deepens,
Britain's banks and exporters could be hit hard. Worst still would be a
snowballing eurozone crisis that engulfs not only Portugal but Spain, an economy
where Britain has extensive dealings, including bank loans and assets of close
to £70 billion. The UK might have to contribute to further bailouts The euro,
currently trading at about $1.38, could come under intense pressure if
speculators decide eurozone governments are losing control of the crisis,
falling back below parity with the dollar and towards the lows of 2000-02.
Further bailouts are needed of countries including Portugal, putting yet more
pressure on the euro to break up

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: George Osborne: good EU neighbour
Man under pressure: Brian Cowen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 22, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

READ ROLLING TELEGRAPH COMMENT AT telegraph.co.uk/blogs

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 64 words


'ALEX SINGLETON

Right-wing Tory activists and Ukip could cost David Cameron a second term.

DANIEL HANNAN

When are the supporters of the euro going to apologise?

KATHARINE BIRBALSINGH

Will William and Kate send their children to a state school?

BENEDICT BROGAN

Tories should welcome Ed Miliband back by taking him on.

STEPHEN HOUGH

Pope Benedict's change of mind is courageous, but why am I angry?'

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 22, 2010 Monday

Labour pulls ahead sharply in Guardian/ICM poll

BYLINE: Julian Gloverguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 528 words

ABSTRACT

Ed Miliband gets best score for Labour since Gordon Brown cancelled the planned
2007 election

FULL TEXT

Labour has pulled ahead sharply in the latest Guardian/ICM poll, as both
coalition parties lose support. The findings, published as Ed Miliband returns
to Westminster after paternity leave, suggest only a minority of voters believe
the coalition is taking Britain in the right direction.

Labour support in a theoretical immediate election has risen to 38%, two points
higher than last month and the best in any ICM poll since Gordon Brown cancelled
the planned 2007 general election.

Between them the coalition parties have shed five points. Conservative support
has dropped three since last month to 36%, while the Liberal Democrats have
fallen two points to 14%.

The Lib Dem score is the lowest in the Guardian/ICM series since May 2001, and
the lowest in any ICM poll since October 2007.

While 91% of the 2010 Conservative voters would vote that way again, and 93% of
2010 Labour voters, only 47% of 2010 Lib Dem voters plan to do the same.

The impact of the party's U-turn on tuition fees is clear. Lib Dem support is
now lower among voters aged 18-24 than among any other age group. By contrast,
in the final election Guardian/ICM poll Lib Dem support was highest among young
voters.

The third party, which has traditionally scored more highly in ICM polls than in
others from companies such as YouGov, has now seen its ICM rating sink from a
high of 31% during the general election to 21% after it and 14% now.

The accuracy of the Lib Dem score - then and now - was the subject of much
discussion at yesterday's post-election British Polling Council conference. Some
pollsters suspect the party's rating is now artificially low and that the party
would outperform it in a general election.

The coalition may take some comfort from the fact that smaller parties have
benefited more than Labour from declining Tory and Lib Dem support. Support for
"others" is up three points to 12%, including 3% for Scottish and Welsh
nationalists, 3% for Ukip and 2% for the Greens.

A plurality of voters think that the government's policies are taking Britain in
the right direction. Overall 46% agree while 37% disagree. However fewer than
half the people who voted Lib Dem in 2010 - 42% [ne] now approve of the
direction of government policies.

Research for the poll was carried out over the weekend, amid news of the Irish
bailout. That may explain the apparent growth in public backing for spending
cuts to reduce the UK budget deficit.

Asked whether they think the cuts are going too far, not far enough or are about
right, 45% say too far, three points lower than last month. A further 35% think
the scale of cuts is about right, down one point. The proportion of people who
think the cuts do not go far enough has risen to 14%, up from 8% last month.
Overall 49% agree with cuts or want more.

· ICM Research interviewed a random sample of 1,000 adults aged 18+ by telephone
on 19-21 November 2010. Interviews were conducted across the country and the
results have been weighted to the profile of all adults. ICM is a member of the
British Polling Council and abides by its rules.

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 22, 2010 Monday 12:15 PM GMT

Could Right-wing Tory activists cost David Cameron a second term?

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 573 words


"I haven't renewed my Tory membership," a friend recently told me. He wasn't a
fair-weather pal of the Conservatives: he'd been the chairman of his
constituency association in the wilderness years of New Labour and had been
giving as much cash to the party as he could afford. But like an increasing
number of grassroots Tories, he no longer sees the point in helping David
Cameron.

Now there are many Tory activists that are happyjust to have kicked Gordon Brown
out of office. They know that the party didn't gain an outright victory and that
David Cameron mustn't annoy the Lib Dems too much. After the vilificationof
Tories as "the nasty party", they like his tone, and he has the appearance of a
statesman. Rather than bitch, they'd prefer to get on with organising the next
coffee morning and theconstituencyChristmas party.

But that hasn't stopped other Tory activists - the Thatcherites and
libertarians, who would dearly like to leave the European Union - from worrying
that Dave holds their views in contempt. They are gob-smacked by his decision to
spend more on the EU, especially given the example set by Thatcher, whose
portrait still hangs in so many constituency offices. Why didn't he just say "We
want our money back"?

These Thatcherites are also irritated that he reneged on his "cast-iron
guarantee" to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty - unlike the coffee-morning
wing, who accept that this wasn't feasible once Lisbon become law. Cameron's
description of UKIP members as "fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists" plays
well to the coffee-morning crowd, as they find UKIP an annoyance when
canvassing, but the Thatcherites - who oppose UKIP while agreeing with their
policies - wonder if Cameron thinks they are fruitcakes too.And there is still a
lingering anger among theThatcherites that memberswere prevented from
deselecting rabidly Europhile incumbents as candidates in the European
elections, although they were pleased that Tory MEPs left the EPP.

Of course, Cameron is doing some things that all the activists like -
public-sector cuts, welfare reform and free schools -but the Thatcherites worry
that the Coalition is moving too cautiously(and they can't understand what their
Old Etonian leader has against grammar schools). For many Thatcherites, the few
welcome policies are just not enough to keep them happy.

It's perfectly normal for a party in power to lose members, but the risk for
Cameron - unlike for Thatcher and Major - is that too many of his party's most
ideologicallycommittedactivists will go on strike. UKIP arguably cost the
Conservatives 10 seats at the last election. If a handful of extra activists
defect to UKIP in each marginal constituency in time for the next election, and
others prioritise their golf over Tory leaflet drops, this figure could easily
increase, helping to drive David Cameron from Downing Street. Bear in mind that
in Hendon, the pro-EU Tory MP, Matthew Offord, has a majority of only 106. A few
extra UKIP canvassers could easily cost this MP his office, and there are plenty
of Tory MPs with majorities of less than 1,000 - all of which UKIP could help
kick out of office.

It won't be enough for Cameron to go and shake hands with the blue-rinse biddies
serving tea and baking cakes in the marginals: he needs the Thatcherites to
pound pavements. If he carries ignoring their brand of Conservatism, can he
really expect to secure enough MPs to give him a second term?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 22, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If it ain't broke, hammer harder;
The rockers are heroically resistant to progress, says Stephen Dalton Pop

BYLINE: Stephen Dalton

SECTION: T2;FEATURES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 475 words


Motörhead

Colston Hall, Bristol ****

As empires crumble, civilisations teeter and whole economies implode, only
Motörhead remain comfortingly changeless in an ever-changing world. True to
festive-season tradition, these gravel-voiced punk-metal veterans are back on
tour and about to release their twentieth studio album, a reliably gnarly and
pugnacious affair entitled The Wörld is Yours. He may turn 65 next month, but
Ian "Lemmy" Kilmister still played as poundingly fast and punishingly loud as
ever. "You might as well be deaf," the bassthumping hard-rock legend barked.

"We are." As the years pass, Lemmy increasingly resembles a northern nightclub
comedian more than a rock star. Rooted to the spot, head cocked back, the
hairy-faced singer punctuated Motörhead classics such as Over the Top and
Overkill with deadpan asides in his trademark, tobaccostained growl. He is half
medieval warlord, half pub landlord. Imagine John Prescott fronting the Ramones.

Musically and lyrically Lemmy has always treated rock'n'roll as a blunt
instrument. Wilfully brutal and unrefined, the Motörhead formula has remained
heroically resistant to progress for decades. The voice gets a little gruffer
each year, and the pace a little sludgier, but otherwise black is always the new
black. Give or take a few flashes of Metallica-style thrash metal, this show
could have taken place in any year since 1980.

Over the decades Motörhead have amassed a kind of anti-fashion cool that
transcends genres and generations, but their audience here was overwhelmingly
male and middle-aged. Part of Lemmy's appeal to the Grumpy Old Men constituency
lies in his crude political ideology, a kind of libertarian anarcho-nihilism
best expressed during this show in the churning blues-rock chugger Just 'Cos You
Got the Power and the caustic new track Get Back in Line. Somewhere between
Jeremy Clarkson and Genghis Khan, this anti-authoritarian stance clearly strikes
a chord with the perennially adolescent rebel inside every UKIP-voting suburban
dad.

The essential conservatism of the Motörhead brand is both its strength and its
weakness. The first half felt as unchallenging as Status Quo, with too many
workmanlike variations on the same bludgeoning, primordial racket. But energy
levels picked up during In the Name of Tragedy, as Lemmy left the stage during
the drummer Mikkey Dee's extended solo - and returned with sharper focus.

The final half hour boasted more punch and a barrage of classic tunes, including
the immortal speed-punk anthem Ace of Spades and the brilliantly titled Killed
by Death - old favourites, comfortingly familiar and rapturously received.
That's the Lemmy philosophy: if it ain't broke, try hammering it a little
harder.

Corn Exchange, Cambridge, tonight; Civic Hall, Wolverhampton, Wed; O2, Leeds,
Thu; Brixton Academy, SW9, Sat; Brighton Centre, Sun

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Ian "Lemmy" Kilmister, the bass-thumping, hard-rock legend, is still
playing as poundingly fast and punishingly loud as ever
MARILYN KINGWILL

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Politicians know that voters oppose their European policies;
To the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 479 words


SIR - If only it were true, as Mats Persson suggests (Comment, November 14),
that the Government wants to ignore the issue of Europe. Its actions -
increasing our support of the EU budget and agreeing to the European
Investigation Order - suggest that the Coalition is actually quite pro-European.

Outside of the political class, people are instinctively opposed to the EU,
which is why politicians continue to refuse us referendums on any European
issue.

J. Wallace York

SIR - If the EU assists Ireland financially, this could cost Britain £7 billion.
It therefore cannot be right that Ireland continues to levy corporation tax at
just 12.5 per cent, which has enabled it to claim the title of "Celtic Tiger"
and to pinch business from Britain and other EU states. Irish corporation tax
should be raised to the mean average of all EU countries as from the date of the
bail-out.

Martin Bellamy Coln St Aldwyns, Gloucestershire

SIR - Ukip adopted the pound sign in its logo and handed out pound sign badges.

The Coalition appears determined to preserve the euro, by bailing out Ireland.
Perhaps they should consider following Ukip's example and produce euro badges.

Edward Huxley Thorpe, Surrey

SIR - I note with interest Angela Merkel's comment last week that: "If the euro
fails, then Europe fails".

It surely won't be long before it does indeed fail, so this is excellent news,
given the current economic policies emanating from Europe.

Rob Waycott Bristol

SIR - The reason why politicians are so beholden to the EU (Letters, November
14) is simple.

First, it provides them with a very lucrative source of income and, second, it
provides a stage on which they can posture and pretend that they are world
statesmen.

Where else would they get these opportunities and rewards, without any apparent
control over their activities, as clearly illustrated by the continuous failure
of the EU accounts to gain a clean bill of health from its auditors?

Peter S. Walton Lincoln

SIR - The European Union needs us far more than we need it, simply to bail other
member states out at vast expense to ourselves.

Britain was built on world trade and should return to that, with the emphasis on
the Commonwealth nations and also nurturing developing countries.

To protect our sea routes, upon which we still so much depend, we need a strong
naval force. Rather than allying with the French, would it not make better sense
to establish a worldwide navy simply by agreement with the major Commonwealth
countries, such as Australia, Canada, India and New Zealand?

Here would be a navy with global reach, dockyards around the world, a common
heritage and the ethos of the Royal Navy, under the command of our sovereign.

Or is that too sensible?

Capt Sam Bee (retd) Lindfield, West Sussex

SIR - I was wondering if anyone is still of the view that we should join the
euro when the time is right?

Barrie Craven Newcastle

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ukip passed over;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 79 words


SIR - As we see the number of peers pushing past the 750 boundary (report,
November 18), surely there should be some attempt to reflect the country in the
composition of the Upper House.

Isn't it time that Ukip was granted a new peer? After all we received more than
900,000 votes at the last election, but gained no MPs, and 2.5 million votes in
the 2009 European elections, showing that we represent a significant and growing
section of public opinion.

Gawain Towler

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

4M MIGRANTS WORK IN UK

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 708  words


No wonder jobs are drying up

BRITISH workers are losing out in the battle for scarce jobs b ecause of soaring
numbers of migrants from within the EU.

Nearly four million people working in the UK between July and September this
year were born abroad, the Office for National Statistics revealed yesterday.

The figure is 204,000 up on 2009, a rise of 5.5 per cent and nearly half of the
influx are economic immigrants from the new EU member states in eastern Europe.

The number of British-born workers in employment grew by just 0.4 per cent.

The figures came a day before the Migration Advisory Committee was due to
publish its recommendations for an annual migration cap today.

Ministers have pledged to cut annual migration to the UK from 176,000 to "tens
of thousands".

But freedom of movement laws drawn up by Brussels mean any cap is powerless to
halt the flow of eastern Europeans.

And last week it emerged that Britain could be forced to accept a fresh wave of
foreign workers under secret plans by the European Commission. Officials want
the UK to take 40 per cent of up to 50,000 Indian skilled migrants expected to
come to Europe every year under a free trade deal. The quota is almost seven
times that proposed for France.

Last night, critics lined up to attack Britain's lax immigration policy and
called for tougher laws to stem the tide of cheap migrant labour at a time when
the UK jobs market is under pressure.

Alp Mehmet, of campaign group MigrationWatch, said:

"This just proves what we have been saying all along. The majority of jobs
created in this country are going to overseas workers. It is right that the
Government should be cutting back on economic migrants and creating incentives
for our own people to go into employment.

"At a time when 16 per cent of our IT graduates are unemployed we should not be
taking in thousands of IT workers from India.

"We are shooting ourselves in the foot."

Gerard Batten, immigration spokesman for UKIP, said: "These figures make a
mockery of the Conservatives' plans to cap migrants coming to this country.

What they show is that there is a continual conveyor belt of cheap labour being
brought to the UK by big business. It drives down wages, boosts the population
and drains public services but does not add to the well-being of indigenous
workers."

Philip Davies, Conservative backbench MP said:

"We are mad in this country to have people born abroad coming here and doing
jobs that people here are capable of doing. It gives the lie to the story that
there are no jobs here.

"I am all in favour of migration caps but I would like control of immigration
from inside the EU too.

"Just having control of immigration outside of the EU is a bit pointless because
we are only as strong as the borders on the EU's furthest outpost and they are
not under our control."

Figures released by the ONS showed that while the number of UK-born workers over
the age of 16 grew by 100,000 in the last year, there was more than double that
from overseas with 204,000.

The home-grown total rose from 25.3 million to 25.4 million. Their foreign
counterparts numbered just more than 3.88 million, up from 3.68m in 2009. Around
90,000 - a rise of 18 per cent - of the extra overseas contingent come from the
eight new EU members including Poland, Slovenia, Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia.

India and all the African countries apart from South Africa contributed 50,000
each. India's proportion rose by more than 14 per cent and Africa's by 9.1 per
cent.

There are 12,000 South Africans working in this country, up 8.4 per cent.

The number of workers born in the 14 other EU countries actually fell by 14,000
as they scrambled to get away from the hard hit British economy.

Employment rates among Britishborn 16 to 64-yearolds were standing at 71.3 per
cent - lower than eastern Europeans, Indians, South Africans, Australians and
New Zealanders.

Ever since announcing plans for a cap David Cameron has been under pressure from
business leaders claiming the visa limit would damage recruitment.

Suggestions the Prime Minister had been influenced by their concerns triggered
fears among Tory backbenchers that the Government will do a U-turn on its pledge
to slash immigration and damage its standing with voters and the party faithful.

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 18, 2010 Thursday

Comment: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 617 words


Perhaps it was the lingering disappointment. Maybe there were personality
clashes. Whatever it was, oh to have been a fly on the wall as members of black,
Asian and minority ethnic Labour (BAME Labour) had their summer meeting.
According to the results of a party inquiry just completed, and leaked to the
diary, it was a torrid affair.

Allegations included claims that the chair, Ahmad Shahzad, "became abusive and
aggressive, including telling a woman committee member to 'shut up' in a sexist
manner". (The inquiry finds no sexism occurred, but says: "The manner in which a
number of people were spoken to was unacceptable and could easily have been
considered to be aggressive and abusive.") Also that the chair "was biased,
selective, and demonstrated favouritism in allowing certain members to speak".
(No bias, says the inquiry but the hapless chair "struggled to keep control of
this meeting from the outset".) And that "in order to exclude members of the
committee, Punjabi was spoken". (Yes, Punjabi was spoken, says the inquiry
report, but it was "a lapse in linguistics from executive members who regularly
converse in multiple languages".) This is Labour's vehicle for increasing
minority membership and - following a good showing by the Tories at the last
election - raising the number of minorities it sends to parliament. And as we
see, it's going jolly well.

Meanwhile, there's strong medicine being handed out by the health secretary,
Andrew Lansley, as he sets about dismantling the bits that work in the NHS. He's
fast becoming the man they love to hate; the Voldemort of the coalition. It may
be that he was fortunate to be sitting alone in a second-class carriage on
Tuesday's 8.15pm train from King's Cross to Cambridge, where he was seen with
his ministerial box, a haunted look and his BlackBerry. But it was strange
because usually, on that particular train, it's a bit of a squash and seats are
at a premium. Voldemort had four to himself.

Now that he is stepping down as the independent assessor of terrorism
legislation, many will wish to assess Lord Carlile's time in the post.
Certainly, he would seem to have provided a useful level of scrutiny when
material was judged too sensitive to be considered in public. So why don't the
powers that be know who he is? Liberal Democrat official Henk van Klaveren tried
to open a bank account with ING Direct but was told that, because he is not
British, he needed to have his passport verified by a bank manager, an embassy
official or a lawyer. I know a lawyer, thought Henk - Alex Carlile, the
government's high-profile independent reviewer of terrorism legislation and a
deputy high court judge. It transpired that Lord Carlile has clout enough to
review secret documents in the Home Office, but ING could find no record of him
and thus he was deemed unfit to vouch for his Liberal Democrat colleague.
Ministers are a pushover. But the banks, they are a law unto themselves. And
they are a devil to please.

Yes, Rupert Murdoch's Fox News is "fair and balanced", and don't let anyone tell
you that it isn't. "Obama children's book already a hit," was the headline in
USA Today. And the equivalent on Fox: "Obama praises Indian chief who killed US
general."

Finally, Twitter is life, Twitter is everywhere. Even the encrusted dinosaurs of
United Kingdom Independence party are in on it. Thus we are able to monitor the
doings of our friend Godfrey Bloom, MEP for Yorkshire and North Lincolnshire.
And to enjoy his self-penned biog. "Urbane, witty, well-informed and sensitive,"
it says. "Even as he punches your lights out." Don't you feel that gloomy
Westminster is dying out for Godfrey and this sort of thing?

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday

IF YOU'RE HAPPY AND YOU KNOW IT...TELL THE PM

BYLINE: BY DANIEL MARTIN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 367 words


DAVID Cameron has set out plans to measure the public's happiness, in a move
branded 'voodoo sociology' by MPs.

The Prime Minister has called for a change of emphasis so that we define our
success not by the money we make, but by our 'general wellbeing'.

Mr Cameron wants Government statisticians to visit a cross-section of the public
four times a year to rate their happiness. The Office for National Statistics
will devise questionnaires so they can quantify how happy or sad the UK is.

Last night, however, MPs and MEPs questioned whether the index was worth
implementing at all, branding it 'voodoo sociology'.

The move will fulfil the Tories' pledge in Opposition to assess wellbeing
alongside traditional economic indicators.

At the time, Mr Cameron said there was 'more to life than money'.

The questions will be posed as part of the ONS's regular household survey.

The assessment could start as soon as next spring with the results published
regularly Z possibly on a quarterly basis. Questions on recycling rates are
being considered, the idea being that Britain would be a more successful nation
if it displayed a greater commitment to the environment.

A Downing Street source said last night: 'Next time we have a comprehensive
spending review, let's not just guess what effect various policies will have on
people's wellbeing. Let's actually know.'

But Tory MP Peter Bone said the exercise was a waste of money. 'At a time when
the Eurozone is about to collapse... it seems strange we'll be spending money on
gauging people's happiness,' he said.

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said: 'I can guarantee that the only results will be
greater spending, greater bossing around and a decrease in happiness across the
board.

'Let us live our lives in peace without your interference. All this proposed
measurement is to invoke voodoo sociology in the service of a bigger and
interfering state.' He added: 'What would make me happy? Riding to hounds then
smoking a cigar with buttery white-bread bacon sandwiches and a pint of beer in
my fist at a hostelry that wants my custom.

'Of course this nannying, hectoring and frankly totalitarian government wouldn't
approve of any of that. But it is none of their business.'

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Are we happy? Have a guess, Prime Minister

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 318 words


DAVID Cameron wants to measure the happiness of every person in Britain, it was
revealed yesterday.

The Prime Minister will ask statisticians to devise a questionnaire to reveal if
we are getting happier or more miserable.

It follows his pledge while in opposition to assess "general wellbeing"
alongside traditional economic indicators.

The questions will be devised by the Office for National Statistics as part of
its regular household survey.

The happiness poll is due to begin next spring with the results published every
four months.

After becoming Conservative leader in 2005, Mr Cameron, who is himself a
millionaire, said: "It's time we admitted that there's more to life than money,
and it's time we focused not just on GDP but on GWB - general wellbeing." Last
month, in its Spending Review, the Government said there was "widespread
acknowledgement that GDP is not the ideal measure of wellbeing".

A Downing Street spokesman said: "It's something that the Prime Minister spoke
about in opposition and it's something this Government says it is going to look
at. But as to precisely what we are going to do and when we are going to do it,
you should wait and see."

Previous surveys suggest Britons' happiness has stayed static for at least 25
years.

The UK's National Statistician, Jil Matheson, said: "There is growing
international recognition that to measure national wellbeing and progress there
is a need to develop a more comprehensive view, rather than focusing solely on
gross domestic product.

"Important though that indicator is, there is a need to look at broader economic
measures, 'quality-of-life' indicators and the impact progress has on the
environment to assess national wellbeing, and how the UK is doing." But UK
Independence Party MEP, Godfrey Bloom, said: "I can guarantee that the only
results will be greater spending, greater bossing around and a decrease in
happiness across the board."

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: How many will smile for pollsters?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Are we happy? Have a guess, Prime Minister

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 318  words


DAVID Cameron wants to measure the happiness of every person in Britain, it was
revealed y esterday.

The Prime Minister will ask statisticians to devise a questionnaire to reveal if
we are getting happier or more miserable.

It follows his pledge while in opposition to assess "general wellbeing"
alongside traditional economic indicators.

The questions will be devised by the Office for National Statistics as part of
its regular household survey.

The happiness poll is due to begin next spring with the results published every
four months.

After becoming Conservative leader in 2005, Mr Cameron, who is himself a
millionaire, said: "It's time we admitted that there's more to life than money,
and it's time we focused not just on GDP but on GWB - general wellbeing."

Last month, in its Spending Review, the Government said there was "widespread
acknowledgement that GDP is not the ideal measure of wellbeing".

A Downing Street spokesman said: "It's something that the Prime Minister spoke
about in opposition and it's omething this Government says it is going to look
at. But as to precisely what we are going to do and when we are going to do it,
you should wait and see."

Previous surveys suggest Britons' happiness has stayed static for at least 25
years.

The UK's National Statistician, Jil Matheson, said: "There is growing
international recognition that to measure national wellbeing and progress there
is a need to develop a more comprehensive view, rather than focusing solely on
gross domestic product.

"Important though that indicator is, there is a need to look at broader economic
measures, 'quality-of-life' indicators and the impact progress has on the
environment to assess national wellbeing, and how the UK is doing."

But UK Independence Party MEP, Godfrey Bloom, said: "I can guarantee that the
only results will be greater spending, greater bossing around and a decrease in
happiness across the board."

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: How many will smile for pollsters?

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 16, 2010 Tuesday 5:22 PM GMT

Ireland's smug, Euro-loving elite has led their country to ruins - 'Little
Englanders' saved ours

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 890 words


Britain must feel like a man who's missed the Titanic and had to watch his
ex-girlfriend and her new friends partying away into the sunset.

Well, as the Daily Mail warned when the Euro was launched, there would be
"icebergs ahead", and so it has passed.

Benedict Brogan wrote yesterday that we should be grateful to John Major and the
"bastards" who stopped Britain from ever joining the Euro, but as Nick Cohen
pointed out in the Observer a few weeks back, we should also thank the
Right-wing press; without pressure from the Daily Telegraph, Mail, Express and
Sun, Tony Blair would probably have signed us up. That's when he still had
dreams of being president of Europe, rather than Mr
I'll-turn-up-to-open-anything-for-50-grand.

Down the years opponents have been called Little Englanders, xenophobes,
"extremists" - we've had the full liberal-left lexicon thrown at us, and never
more so than when being spoken down to by Ireland's cultural elite.

So if there is an annoyingly smug sound of "I told you so" coming from this side
of the Irish Sea, it is not directed at the Irish people in general, especially
as so many of us have relatives and the financial mess affects us all (we're
forking out 6 billion to help our neighbours, after all).

Rather it is directed at the Irish political class, an even more self-satisfied
and closed-minded collection of people than our own Guardianistas. Kevin Myers
has often said that Ireland overthrew the clergy only to replace it with the
commentariat, a group with a remarkably narrow set of views and completely
intolerant of dissent - Church bad, multi-culturalism good, Brits bad, America
worse, Israelis worst of all. Being part of the European project goes without
saying among this herd of beach-bound whales.

Ireland has a historical attachment to continental Europe, as liberator from
British rule, but it perhaps goes even deeper than that, back to its monks'
preservation of Western civilisation during the Dark Ages. Ireland, more than
most countries, feels itself profoundly European and its Catholicism was always
a part of that. It is not entirely a coincidence that as Christianity faded
Ireland adopted a replacement ideology - the dream of Brussels. Or the world's
biggest suicide pact, as I think of it.

The Irish political elite, progressive in social and cultural issues, naturally
loves Brussels' social agenda, which is hostile to the Church, religion or any
moral opposition (warning sign No. 1). That explains why seriously devout
Catholics in Ireland joined with the far-Left and the ultra-nationalists in
opposing the Lisbon Treaty.

A motley collection, but at least Sinn Fein's logic is consistent. Why spend 800
years trying to overthrow the Brits just to come under the sway of the EU?
Having said that, almost no one in Ireland goes anywhere as far as UKIP or many
Tories in opposing the EU altogether.

This British (or perhaps English) attitude has always, in my experience, been
met with condescension by Dublin sophisticates, who view UK Eurosceptics as
oddball, imperial throwbacks suffering from dementia, fit for an old people's
home. You may as well tell them you don't believe in the Gregorian calendar or
standardised time.

Yet none of the people who have voiced their support for the Euro and a united
Europe would consider gambling their own home and life savings on a new house
they'd never seen, built by builders they'd never heard of, and which had never
been surveyed - just because their friends told them to not do so would be
reactionary, old-fashioned or bigoted, and this was progress. And yet they were
prepared to do so for their entire country.

The European Project was and is a utopian idea, based not on practical logic but
on an idealistic vision, and it has only one aim in mind - total political
union. Along the way its architects have consistently lied to the public about
its aims, especially so in the creation of a single currency, which logic
suggests requires political unification.

And political union cannot just happen; it entails becoming what Roger Scruton
calls "a society of strangers", and "democracy involves the ability to grant a
share in government to people with whom you profoundly disagree, including
people of another faith. This is possible only where government is secular, and
where nevertheless people revere the process of government as the expression of
a shared national identity."

Ireland went along with this delusion because they believed it would bring them
wealth and because they were sick of being a backward country left out of
Europe's mainstream. All of Europe's nations had their reasons for being part of
the plan to end nationalism and with it conflict in Europe.

They were led by their political elite, but in all these countries the
population followed; only in Britain was there widespread hostility to the idea,
not because of our attachment to some "glorious imperial past", as the federasts
believe, but because in Britain the idea of the nation-state was not discredited
by war.

If Peter Hitchens got a penny for every time someone repeated this line, he
could probably single-handedly bail out Ireland, but it's worth repeating:
"Britain is the only virgin in a continent of rape victims."

Yet all along the elite of Ireland and elsewhere were wrong, and the little
people of Middle England were right.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 15, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

Greens and NUS to mount electoral assault on Lib Dems

BYLINE: Oliver Wright and Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 865 words


The Liberal Democrats are facing twin electoral assaults from the Green Party
and the National Union of Students in the wake of the party's U-turn on tuition
fees

The Independent understands the Greens are drawing up a strategy to target
Liberal Democrat MPs in the most marginal seats - a move which could potentially
unseat up to 10 per cent of the party's MPs.

The Greens are unlikely to win the seats but they could do what UKip has done to
the Conservatives and win enough votes to deprive the Liberal Democrats of a
majority in several seats across the country.

At the same time the NUS has announced plans to target high profile Liberal
Democrat-held constituencies with large student populations including Nick
Clegg's constituency of Sheffield Hallam and Don Foster's in Bath. They are also
considering putting up a candidate in the Oldham East and Saddleworth
by-election - which the Liberal Democrats hope to win from Labour following the
ejection of former immigration minister Phil Woolas. The election will be the
first big test of the Coalition's popularity.

The Liberal Democrats, who have 57 MPs, are particularly vulnerable to the
Greens in three key university seats: Norwich South, Manchester Withington and
Cambridge.

In Norwich, the Liberal Democrat candidate Simon Wright won a surprising victory
in May to clinch the seat with a majority of 310. The Greens polled nearly 15
per cent of the vote and it would take only a tiny swing to deprive Mr Wright of
his seat.

If the Liberal Democrat vote collapsed it is possible that Adrian Ramsay - the
Green candidate and deputy leader of the party - could even win.

The party also has a small majority in Manchester Withington - a seat with a
high proportion of students. Although the Greens only polled 978 votes at the
last election it would only take another 1,000 dissatisfied Liberal Democrats to
vote Green to unseat John Leech and hand the seat to Labour.

Likewise in Cambridge Julian Huppert could be vulnerable. Although he has a
majority of over 6,000, the Green Party has a strong base in the city. Last time
round the seat was contested by Tony Juniper who polled nearly 4,000 votes.

A further three Liberal Democrat MPs have majorities of less than 500 in seats
where at the last election the Greens did not field candidates. If they were to
do so this time round they would be highly vulnerable. Caroline Lucas, leader of
Greens, who herself became the first Green MP earlier this year, said
discussions were underway in the party on how best to target Liberal Democrat
voters.

"This is not an eventuality that has passed us by," she said. "Targeting Liberal
Democrat voters is something we have been discussing as part of out election
strategy. If you look at the seats where the Greens do well its true to say that
the Libs Dems do less well."

The Liberal Democrat leadership is also facing internal pressures. On Saturday
the party elected Tim Farron as its new president. He said it was important that
the coalition was able to explain its message both to members and the wider
public. "The difficulty is how do you deal with that transition for a party
which has spent the last four generations out of power.

"We're not a pure as the pure driven snow any more by the sheer fact of being in
power. Your average Liberal Democrat member is excited by the reality of getting
things done in power and also extremely nervous."

Partly as a result of internal pressure Vince Cable is to adopt a high-risk
approach to the critical Commons vote on tuition fees.

The Liberal Democrat Business Secretary will allow a full-scale Commons debate
and vote on the plan shortly before the House starts its Christmas recess on 21
December. Under Commons rules, he could have railroaded through the proposed
rise in a two-hour debate ending in a yes or no vote.

But in a concession to Liberal Democrat MPs who oppose the increase, he has
decided to allow a four-hour debate on a government motion to which amendments
can be tabled. This will enable the Opposition to propose an alternative - such
as a graduate tax - in the hope of attracting Liberal Democrat support.

In the wake of last week's student protest at Westminster, allies said Mr Cable
wanted to ensure a full debate and not face accusations of rushing through the
fees rise. Although Liberal Democrat whips believe the party's backbench critics
are gradually being won over, one source admitted yesterday: "It is still very
tight."

Mr Cable faced a dilemma over how to push through the shake-up of
higher-education funding. The sweeteners in his package, including measures such
as scholarships to help children from poor backgrounds, require legislation, but
that will not be passed until next year. They will be spelt out in a White
Paper, expected in January, to be followed by a consultation process.

The fees rise does not require legislation. However, it needs to be approved
quickly so universities can plan for their introduction for new students in the
autumn of 2012. Mr Cable hopes the Government's decision to impose a
£9,000-a-year cap on fees will help to defuse the Liberal Democrat rebellion. He
rejected the proposal by Lord Browne for an open-ended rise in fees.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 15, 2010 Monday 8:12 AM GMT

Magna Carta, the cornerstone of English liberty, to be celebrated by
Government's most pro-Brussels minister

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 602 words


Plans are under way to celebrate the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta in 2015.

The Magna Carta Trust also wants June 15, the anniversary, to become a national
holiday, something which I think has a strong chance of happening in the
medium-term future. Why? Because England is missing its sense of purpose right
now, stuck between a previous identity that was largely built on empire and
Protestantism, and attempts by well-meaning fools to create a fluffy new focus
group-created vision that centres around New Labourish buzzwords like "fair
play", "tolerance" and "diversity".

All of it weak, Weimar Republic stuff that doesn't remotely appeal to our
hearts, nor our heads, and completely alienates large swathes of society.

The alternative is to go constitutional, starting with Magna Carta, something
historically neglected in this country.

In contrast to the United States; today visitors to the US House of
Representatives in Washington can gaze at a bust of Simon De Montfort, the 13th
century baron who forced the king to recognise the rights of Parliament, and so
led the way for the rule of law not just in England but across the world.

Never mind that De Montfort was actually French, was anything but a democrat,
and had views about Jews that would make a Hamas spiritual leader blush. It was
he who led the rebellion that forced Henry III to recognise Magna Carta -before
the future Edward I had De Montfort's testicles cut off, hung around his nose,
and his body cut up into four pieces and sent around the country.

But while Magna Carta's influence has been exaggerated and fetishized, it was
hugely important. The 5th amendment of the US Constitution, "nor shall be
compelled in any criminal case to be a witness against himself, nor be deprived
of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law", is based on Magna
Carta's Clause 39 (also, confusingly called Clause 29): "No free man shall be
seized or imprisoned, or stripped of his rights or possessions, or outlawed or
exiled... except by the lawful judgment of his equals or by the law of the
land."

Clause 39 is still the law in England, and the ideas contained in the 1215
charter helped to lead the way for the rule of law and parliamentary democracy
to flourish around the world.

So here's a massive irony:

Master of the Rolls Lord Neuberger and Lord Chancellor Ken Clarke will address a
public launch at a memorial site in Runnymede, Surrey, where King John sealed
the document in 1215.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage has called this a "travesty". He said: "Clarke is a man
who has spent much of his career in handing over those liberties and freedoms to
the European Union and yet he stands up today in Runnymede to celebrate the
following words, 'and that men in our kingdom shall have and keep all these
liberties, rights, and concessions, well and peaceably in their fullness and
entirety for them and their heirs, of us and our heirs, in all things and all
places for ever'. Looking at this maybe Tony Hancock was right after all, maybe
she did die in vain."

It is ironic indeed. The point about Magna Carta is that it is not a declaration
of human rights, but a contract between ruler and ruled, and so the freedom and
the rule of law that follow are products of the nation-state. It is the
antithesis of everything the EU, led by people who think patriotism is a mental
illness, stands for.

Perhaps the Government can celebrate the 800th anniversary by promising us a
referendum on national independence in 2015? Who knows?If Saudi Arabia can get a
seat on the UN Women's board, anything is possible.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 14, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cecil Beaton's SCRAPBOOK A PEEK INTO HIS PRIVATE WORLD

SECTION: SEVEN;FEATURES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 51 words


PLUS

Nigel Farage: after the crash

How facing death has softened the Ukip leader - a little

The real Disney princess

Walt's daughter and her fight to protect him from evil

'The day I nearly punched a critic'

Paul Auster confesses all

INSIDE

FILM/MUSIC/ART/DANCE/ THEATRE/BOOKS

PLUS: YOUR SEVEN-DAY TV AND RADIO GUIDE

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COVER: A PAGE FROM BEATON'S SCRAPBOOK, COUTTRESY ASSOULINE AND THE
SOTHEBYS ARCHIVE..

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 14, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

contents 14.11.10

SECTION: SEVEN;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 240 words


The front

7 Sandi Toksvig

Why every space odyssey should start in suburbia

Features

8 Cover Story How Cecil Beaton captured the world

When he wasn't photographing. or sketching. starlets and intellectuals, Cecil
Beaton was assembling a very large scrapbook. Lucy Davies takes a peep inside

14 Nigel Farage: born to rant

He's compared a fellow politician to a 'damp rag', had an extra-marital
fling.and survived a plane crash. 'I'm a little less bullish these days,' the
Ukip leader tells Nigel Farndale

18 My father, Walt Disney

An audience with the girl who grew up with Mickey Mouse

22 The boy who ate books

Helena de Bertodano meets the author Paul Auster

Arts

25 Art

Cézanne's Card Players, at the Courtauld Gallery

26 Classical

ENO's Don Giovanni

27 Pop

Paloma Faith

28 Film

You Again; My Afternoons With Margueritte

30 Theatre

Wilde's An Ideal Husband, at the Vaudeville

31 Dance

Sylvia, at Covent Garden

Books

35 Poetry

The poet Don Paterson rereads Shakespeare's sonnets

36 History

A lost civilisation: the story of the Levant

37 Biography

Michael Holroyd ties together the strands linking three lives

38 Fiction

Lloyd Jones and Jess Walter

39 Paperbacks

The back 62

Loves&Hates

Holier-than-thou types (and hot drinks machines) have to go, says Jools Holland

Whatever happened to...?

The film director charged with murder

The List

Moments of mass hysteria

TV & Radio p42-60

TV

Comedian Sharon Horgan on finally playing it straight, p42

Radio

Len Goodman's dance-floor tales, p58

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COVER: A PAGE FROMBEATON'S SCRAPBOOK, COUTTRESY ASSOULINE AND THE
SOTHEBYS ARCHIVE..

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 14, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

"I did think, why is this happening to me? Have I been that awful?" Nigel
Farage;
Over the past year he's survived a plane crash, lost his power, then snatched it
back again. But the Ukip leader's love of the fight - and lap dancing - never
left

BYLINE: Nigel Farndale

SECTION: SEVEN;FEATURES; Pg. 14,15,17

LENGTH: 2902 words


Even Nigel Farage's enemies, of which he has an impressive collection, would
have to admit that he has the recognition factor.Whether he is appearing on Have
I Got News For You or becoming a YouTube hit after abusing the President of the
European Council, Herman Van Rompuy, telling him that he has 'the charisma of a
damp rag', among other ripe comments, the 46-year-old UK Independence Party MEP
knows how to get noticed.

Sometimes it's for the wrong reasons, such as when he had an extramarital
fling,or claimed £2million worth of EU expenses over 10 years 'to prove a
point', but he seems to take the Wildean view that, for a politician at least,
there is only one thing worse than being talked about...

Today he stands out because he is the only man in this country pub in Kent, his
local, wearing a silk-lined suit and tie and, generally, looking like a
commodity broker, which is what he used to be. (Tin and cocoa.) He has lived
here, not far from the Battle of Britain airfield Biggin Hill, all his life.

'I was christened in that church,' he says gesturing at the spire outside.'You
can be rooted, have a sense of where you come from and what your values are,
without being parochial.'

His recognisability is one of the reasons why, when Lord Pearson resigned as
leader of Ukip in August, all eyes turned to Farage. He had done the job before,
resigning last year so that he could concentrate on trying to win a seat in
Westminster.Ignoring the convention that the Speaker is normally returned
unopposed, Farage stood against John Bercow and lost.

'The one thing I couldn't know was whether Cameron would endorse him,' he says
with elongated vowels that are a little like those of Frankie Howerd.'I thought
he wouldn't. I was wrong. I take chances. I rush into things. But I don't regret
things.'

Last week Farage was re-elected as leader of Ukip. His message to his troops, he
says, is that they need to be more disciplined and better funded. Intriguingly,
he compares Ukip to the Tea Party.'We're not religious like they are and we're
not affiliated to the equivalent of the Republican Party, but in terms of the
howls we hear from people who feel outraged that their voice is not being heard
in Westminster, there is a comparison.'

Though Farage can rarely be accused of avoiding confrontation, he did brood long
and hard over whether or not to stand as leader.'The internal squabbling can be
very tiresome,' he says.'But so many young people have told me I was the reason
they joined the party that I feel it is my duty. But the main consideration, the
reason I hesitated, was that I am still recovering from a pretty major
accident.'

The qualifying 'pretty' doesn't give quite the whole picture. On the day of the
General Election in May, Farage even managed to upstage David Cameron when the
two-seater plane he was flying in got tangled in the Ukip banner it was trailing
and crashed shortly after take-off from an airfield in Northamptonshire.

Does he get flashbacks? 'Sometimes.' Trouble sleeping? 'Never slept before, so
that's OK. It does come back to me occasionally. It wasn't a good position to be
in.' He had a relatively long time to contemplate his fate that day. 'I had
about four or five minutes of staring death in the face. You almost adopt the
1916 subaltern mentality: if it's going to happen, let's get it over with
quickly.

'When the pilot said to me: "Nigel, this is an emergency", I knew exactly what
that meant. I could see the sweat on his temples and I could see him fighting to
keep control. He said to me a couple of weeks afterwards that I had been very
calm, but what else was I supposed to do? I reasoned that he didn't want to die
any more than I did, so if I was panicking or making calls on my mobile that
would just make the difficult job the pilot had harder.'

If he had called someone it would have been his wife presumably? 'Presumably,
yes,' he says with a laugh.

For all his epic rudeness on the political stage, Farage, in person, is a
cheerful soul who laughs a lot and has a toothy cartoonish smile. He has
something that he claims Van Rompuy lacks: charisma. But he seems to have no
self-pity.

He remembers tightening his seat belt as the plane went into a dive.'The slowest
bit was the time between the nose hitting and the plane rolling over, it must
have taken three quarters of a second, yet I remember it vividly, that feeling
of time slowing down. I can still hear that noise.

'Bang! And as we were going over there was a flash of light and I remember
thinking with shock: "My God! I'm still alive!" 'Then he realised he was trapped
upside down in the wreckage. 'Horribly disorientating. I could feel my chest was
smashed in.' (Later it emerged that his sternum and ribs were broken, and his
lung 'for? get first punctured.) 'Then I thought, I'm going to burn to death
because I was covered in petrol, in my hair, everywhere and that was pretty
scary I tell you. When the rescuers came and asked me calmly if I was all right
they got an earful of Anglo Saxon!'

A photograph of Farage trapped in the wreckage, and another of him looking
bloodied and dazed as he stood up for the first time soon swept the internet.
Simon Pegg, star of the spoof zombie movie Shaun of the Dead, was joking, within
hours, that there had been a swing to the Zombie Party. Did that upset Farage?
'No. I wasn't bothered about it. Those photos capture the feeling of being
smashed. They were quite intrusive though and if I had died there would have
been a hell of a row. If I'd snuffed it in the ambulance. But I didn't die, so
there you are.'

Does he feel almost invincible now? 'Well, I've had testicular cancer and been
in a big car crash before but that was when I was younger. Look.' He rolls up
his trousers and points to a bulge of bone under the skin on his leg. 'It was
easier to bounce back from that.' As for the cancer,which led to one of his
testicles being removed, he says he doesn't find it uncomfortable to talk about.

'In fact, I think the more men avoid talking about it the more dangerous it is.
But this plane crash was different. I have to be realistic. The back is really
not good. It is hard getting through a long day. I look all right. I've lost
weight. Got a bit of a suntan, but when I wake up in the morning and try and put
my socks on, I am quickly reminded of what happened.'

He says his approach, now that he has been re-elected as leader of Ukip, will be
that of the older boxer.'I won't be as fast but I will be able to box cleverer.
Mentally, I feel fine, though I dare say there are those who would question what
my mental health was like before the accident!' The raucous laugh again.

One way in which the accident changed him, he says, is that he thinks he is less
impulsive now, less bullish. 'And less ebullient. That has been tempered. I have
been thinking about that because I have always been the most ridiculous
optimist. When I was in the City I always thought the next trade would be the
big one.'

Did he take stock of his life in those four minutes? He nods thoughtfully. 'I
did think, why is this happening to me? Have I been that awful?'

And did he conclude that he has led a good life? He thinks long and hard before
answering, which is not typical. He is never normally lost for words, as those
who have been on the receiving end of his articulate and often amusing tirades
in Brussels know well.

'I've never really set out to hurt anybody either physically or mentally,' he
says eventually. 'Not really. Never stolen anything. I think I've been
reasonably honest. Is that leading a good life? You can regret you didn't do
more for your children but, on balance, I think I've tried to do what I thought
was right. I don't feel ashamed of the life I have led.'

Broadsheet readers may have missed reading about it, but in 2006, Farage, who
has been married twice and has four children, became the target of a tabloid
kiss-and-tell when a woman from Latvia claimed she met him in a pub in Biggin
Hill and then ended up back at her place having sex 'at least seven times'. The
revelation led to the joke 'Ukip if you want to'. So. The extramarital affair?

'Well, we're all human.There is a big difference between that sort of thing and
being really bad.'And the expenses scandal? 'Well, that was nonsense. I was
trying to make a point about the Brussels gravy train, but it didn't work. None
of it went to me. Most of it went on my staff, on administration.' And the
accusations of racism? I remind him of David Cameron's dismissal of Ukip as
'fruitcakes, loonies and closet racists'. 'Yeah we constantly have to fight
against that prejudice. It was a bloody stupid thing for him to say and he's
never repeated it.

'What he was doing was insulting his own party because most of his members
broadly agree with what we are saying about Europe, people like Norman Tebbit,
who is very popular within the Tory Party.' Has Farage ever used the N-word?
'Not since I was 15, a kid in the playground at school when you were all roundly
abusing one another. No, that was a myth put about by Dr Sked [disenchanted Ukip
founder Alan Sked].'

The mainstream parties may unite in their attacks on Ukip, 'the BNP in Blazers'
is one of the insults, but, as Farage notes,much of the abuse directed at the
party comes from within. The most spectacular bit of in-fighting was started by
Robert Kilroy-Silk after he attempted a coup and then left Ukip in a huff to set
up his own party, Veritas. Kilroy-Silk described Ukip as 'Right-wing fascist
nutters'. Farage, in turn, dismissed Kilroy-Silk as a vain, orange buffoon and a
'monster'.

At this point in the interview, Farage asks me: 'We are the same age, how did
you find growing up in the Seventies with the initials NF?' It is my turn to
laugh. Yes, I agree, they were unfortunate initials, but growing up in rural
Yorkshire they probably didn't hold as much significance as they would have done
for him growing up in south London.

'Yes, I was very aware of them because I was at school not far from Brixton. [At
Dulwich.] During the Brixton Riots the police used our school as their
headquarters.'

But let us return to the question about his leading a good life.He has an
unusually laddish reputation for a politician. Does he feel this compromises him
politically? What, for example, about his professed penchant for lap dancing
clubs? 'Lap dancing? Don't have the time these days, but I used to go to them.
Like it or not, they are a fact of life. You are talking about normal behaviour
there. Everyone does it.'

Do they? I never have. 'Why not?' Because it's exploitative, demeaning for both
parties and tantamount to prostitution. 'Prostitution and lap dancing are not
the same thing, they can be but not usually.' But aren't conservative-minded
politicians like him supposed to believe in family values? 'Yes, but I am also a
libertarian. I think prostitution, for instance, should be decriminalised and
regulated. I feel that about drugs, too. I don't do them myself but I think the
war on drugs does more harm than the drugs themselves.I am opposed to the
hunting ban and the smoking ban, too.What have they got to do with government?
The one thing I cannot be accused of is hypocrisy.'

Even though his extreme libertarianism must have frightened the Tory horses, he
was, nevertheless, once offered a safe Tory seat. 'It wouldn't have worked
though, would it? I wouldn't have lasted a fortnight before having the Tory whip
removed. Besides, I think I've managed to do more outside the Tory Party than
in.'

He did start out as a Tory though. Indeed, being an aspiring Thatcherite he
chose not to go down the university route, preferring instead to follow his
father into the City and make his fortune. He worked there for almost 20 years
before having a political epiphany the night Britain joined the ERM in 1990.

'I was convinced it was the wrong thing to do. 'Then came the overthrow of
Margaret Thatcher. 'The way those gutless, spineless people got rid of the woman
they owed everything to made me so angry. I was a monster fan of Mrs Thatcher.
Monster. Hers was the age of aspiration, it wasn't about class.'

The final straw for him was Maastricht. 'I really worried.And I realised the
views I heard in here, in this pub, weren't being represented in Westminster.
That was when I thought it was time I should enter politics and try to do
something about it.'

He insists, though, that he is not a little Englander who is against foreigners
per se, not least because his second wife, Kirsten, is German and their two
young children are, or will be, bilingual. But for all that, he does represent a
party in the European Parliament whose sole desire is to get Britain out of the
EU.And they have had some modest success. In the last Euro elections they did
take nine seats in Brussels, which meant they beat Labour and the Lib Dems.

But now that the single currency has come unstuck,I ask, isn't the war over?
'Well, thank God it has collapsed,' he says.'I used to wear the pound sign in my
lapel every day but now I don't. But this isn't about the single currency
anymore.The debate has moved on. It's about taking back control over your
working lives from Brussels .

'Every day ordinary life in this country is affected by our EU membership,
ordinary trades, not just farmers and fishermen. Nearly all our laws and
regulations are now made for us in Brussels. And not only that, our membership
of the EU costs us £40million a day.'

It is time to reload, his expression for a refill. How much does he drink?
'That's been diminishing for 20 years. Attitudes have changed. Because I like a
couple of drinks with my lunch I am considered strange.' Has he ever worried
about alcoholism? His father, after all, had a drinking problem. 'I'm lucky. I'm
one of those people who can take it or leave it,' he says.

In the pub, the locals all seem to know him. We talk about the recognition
factor again and note that, such is the level of public ignorance or
indifference about politics and politicians in this country, surveys show that
there are even some voters who cannot say who the prime minister is.

Farage says this does not surprise him. 'I mean,who is Cameron? What does he
stand for? He's so bland. 'He's laughing as he says it. 'Actually, he and I get
on OK. We joined parliament at the same time and were on the same South East
news programmes circuit. He was always nicking cigarettes off me. And he was the
first person to send me a note after my accident. Same day. I really appreciated
that.'

This makes you wonder whether Farage's accident has mellowed him.After all,
calling Cameron bland hardly counts as an insult by his standards. Ask van
Rompuy. He probably still wakes up in a cold sweat at three in the morning
thinking about the abuse he received from Farage on the floor of the European
Council.

Rumpy, as Farage calls him, looked stunned at the time.'I just wanted to ask him
who he was?' Farage now recalls.'Who voted for him? I don't use a script and the
line about him having the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk came to me while
I was listening to his speech.'

He used to think he was wasting his time there, doing those speeches in a
parliament no one covers. 'But then the YouTube thing has given me a new lease
of life. It reaches big audiences.' It sure does. One of the sites showing that
clip has received around half a million hits and a clip of Farage putting the
boot into Gordon Brown, also at the European Parliament, has had a quarter of a
million visits.

'Oh yes, well, Brown,' he says.'Good God.He has no social graces. A non-person.'
So if Cameron goes to speak at Brussels as Brown did, should he expect a Farage
barrage? 'Bloody right. That's what I'm there for. That's what they vote for me
for, to provide some entertainment. With the European Parliament stuff, I have
tried to make it entertaining.'

Intriguingly, if you look on European versions of YouTube you will see Farage is
always given the title 'Oppositionführer'.

'I know, I know,' he says. 'Great fun. It just means leader of the opposition.'
Would the Oppositionführer say he is now more recognisable in Brussels than the
Führer, van Rompuy? 'I don't know about that, but if I am recognisable it is
only because the others are so bloody awful, not because I'm good.'

He can still dish it out, it seems, post accident, and when I ask whether he can
still take it he laughs again.

'Whatever Mickey-taking you get on programmes like Have I Got News For You it is
as nothing compared to leaving public school and going to work on the London
Metal Exchange. There it was vicious, all day every day.'

He doesn't want to go back to that old life, he adds, even if his new life does
sometimes bring him unwanted attention. 'The recognition is great until you are
on the last train home on a Friday night,' he says. 'It's the classic "I know
you" moment.And there's nowhere to hide!

Generally when people do the "good on ya mate'' it's from people you are happy
to have it from, cab drivers and so on. But on that train when people have had a
few drinks... 'He drains his glass, slams it down on the table and laughs again.
Bloodied but unbowed.

'Cameron's so bland. What does he stand for? Actually, he and I get on OK. He
was the first person to send me a note after the accident. Same day'

'Lap dancing clubs? Don't have the time these days. But like it or not, they are
a fact of life - perfectly normal behaviour. Everybody does it'

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PHOTOGRAPH SPENCER MURPHY
Nigel Farage on his plane crash 'Those photos were intrusive and if I'd snuffed
it in the ambulance there would have been a hell of a row. But I didn't'
Loyal subject? Clockwise from below: Farage meets the Queen and Prince Philip,
2007; canvassing in Ramsgate in 2005; exposed by the tabloids
IAN JONES; PAUL GROVER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 14, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

If politicians believe in localism, they should oppose the EU;
To the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 490 words


SIR - Alasdair Palmer's criticism (Comment, November 7) of the contradiction
between Nick Clegg's localism and his commitment to handing powers to the
European Union reminds me of George Orwell's term "doublethink".

This described a process whereby a person's mind could hold two contradictory
beliefs, knowing that the beliefs were contradictory, but suppressing the
knowledge simultaneously.

He coined the term as part of his vision of Britain as part of a monolithic
dictatorship, with all of our freedoms taken away.

Peter Davey Moordown, Dorset

SIR - Only in September did a Lib Dem minister, Andrew Stunell, claim that
"localism is in the Liberal Democrats' DNA".

Mr Clegg must know that opinion polls show that the British public is
overwhelmingly in favour of decisions being made in this country, rather than in
Brussels - indeed, a poll for the BBC last year found that 55 per cent of Brits
favour leaving the EU entirely.

If localism really is in the Lib Dems' DNA, the party should be demanding a
referendum on the EU, rather than an unwanted one on our voting system.

Joanne Stanway London NW4

SIR - Alasdair Palmer correctly recognises the difficulty in cutting our
contributions to the EU, but is naive if he believes that repatriation of powers
is feasible without total withdrawal.

Since Gordon Brown extended qualified-majority voting with the Lisbon Treaty,
Britain has lost the one stick with which to further its interests - the veto
over EU business. It is inconceivable that other, more statist EU countries
would agree to give back significant powers that we have already given up.

The choice, therefore, is between EU membership and independence. I know which
one I would prefer.

Hinal Patel Glasgow

SIR - Herman Van Rompuy last week said that Euroscepticism leads to wars. He
should consider recent history in which wars in eastern Europe and beyond
followed the imposition of artificially created states such as Yugoslavia and
the Soviet Union.

I was living overseas when Edward Heath took us into the EEC, by being
economical with the truth. I neither voted for nor against it. Since I returned,
I have become more convinced that the best thing for Britain would be to leave.

Barbara Metherell Horsham, West Sussex

SIR - Mr Van Rompuy is quite right to fear the spread of genuine Euroscepticism
throughout Europe.

Since Ukip came second in the European elections in 2009, I have crossed swords
with him rather publicly and warned him that he is hopelessly out of touch with
European public opinion.

I recently spoke in Berlin to a packed hall of 600 people, all of whom are
fighting to get back the Deutschmark and German democracy. The genie is now out
of the bottle.

Nigel Farage MEP (Ukip) Brussels

SIR - There is absolutely no benefit arising from membership of the EU which
could not be obtained free of charge from the European Free Trade Association.

Why, then, is it that politicians are so beholden to the EU?

Ian Brown Derby

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 14, 2010 Sunday 9:37 AM GMT

Stick it to the Eurocrats: vote yes in next year's AV referendum

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 262 words


If you're thinking of supporting first past the post in next May's referendum,
think again. Adopting the Alternative Vote system is a vital step towards
independence from the EU because it would cause Eurosceptics within the
Conservative Party to vote UKIP.

Although UKIP is now the second-largest British party in the European
Parliament, it is frozen out of Westminster. It can't secure enough votes in a
single constituency to gain an MP, and many of its supporters in European
elections won't cross the UKIP box in national elections because they fear
wasting their vote.

So how does Alternative Vote help? It would let people put chose a UKIP
candidate first and Tory second. They would get to express their true desire,
while also helping a centre-Right candidate with a chance of winning a
consituency. The result would be a ever-rising share of the vote for UKIP, which
would annoy the hell out of Tory strategists in Milbank and Europhile MPs such
as Ken Clarke, but ultimately force them to take the public's views on Europe
far more seriously.

What's more, a switch to alternative vote would be the thin end of the wedge. It
would create pressure for the logical next step: to tag on some proportional
representation.

Contrary to the old objections of the Right, this would be brilliant: AV+, the
system proposed by Lord Jenkins's review in 1998, would allow the Tories to win
the Right's votes in constituencies, while letting UKIP secure seats in
Parliament as part of a proportional top-up - placing them in an ideal position
of power for the next hung Parliament.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 13, 2010 Saturday

THE BRITISH MEPS RAKING IN HOUSANDS ON THE EURO GRAVY TRAIN

LENGTH: 1908 words


SPECIAL INVESTIGATION

BY DEBORAH DAVIES

6260 just for signing their name, 644,000 to run an office, no receipts
required. How Britain s MEPs who cost us 6400,000 a year EACH are taking us for
a ride

FRIDAY at 7am, the corridors of the European Parliament in Brussels are
virtually deserted. Nearly all the meeting rooms and offices are locked. Most
official business happens from Monday to Thursday, so the only people with good
reason to be here before dawn on a Friday are cleaners and security staff.

But up on the third floor, there is movement. Every so often, smartly dressed
individuals dart out of a lift, scurry around the corner into a restricted area
marked 'Members Only' and disappear into the Attendance Office for a few
seconds.

Then they hurry back to the lift, usually wheeling a small suitcase. Their
whistlestop visit has left them about 6260 richer.

These are MEPs , Members of the European Parliament , signing the attendance
register so they can claim their 'daily allowance' for working away from home ,
when, in fact, they're often rushing back there for the weekend. One man is
queueing on the dot of 7am and grumbling that the office isn't open yet. 'I'll
miss my plane,' he complains.

Just after 8am yesterday, two British MEPs joined the steady stream of people
signing in. One is John Bufton, a Welsh UKIP member; the other is Conservative
Nirj Deva, who represents South-East England.

We approached both of them to ask why they were signing in so early on a Friday.
Both said they had meetings, but they didn't deny they would be leaving Brussels
during the course of the day. Did they think they could justify claiming 6260,
most of which is meant is to cover overnight accommodation?

'That's our system,' said John Bufton.

This weekly farce speaks volumes about the Brussels gravy train, and how poorly
the European Union's 6100 billion-a-year budget is managed. The sums of cash
swilling around the EU are so huge, and their allocation so complex, the
astonishing truth is that no one knows exactly how that 6100 billion is spent.

The situation is so bad that, four days ago, the auditors refused to sign off
the EU's accounts completely. For the 16th year in a row, they found serious
'weaknesses' and 'irregularities'. That's Eurospeak for mismanagement and fraud.

And, lest we forget, this money which is so badly mismanaged comes from
taxpayers in the member states. That is, from me and you.

I've been investigating the murky finances of the European Union , including the
expenses paid to MEPs , for Channel 4's Dispatches programme.

Over the course of an hour at the European Parliament one Friday morning, I
counted more than a dozen MEPs going in to sign the attendance register before
immediately leaving the building. Many head straight to the underground car
park, where official cars are waiting to take them to the airport or the
station.

The money they're claiming is the daily subsistence allowance of w298. It's
meant to cover additional costs, such as accommodation and meals, while on
official business in Brussels.

'What additional costs do you have if you sign in early in the morning and then
leave immediately for home?' says Hans-Peter Martin, an Austrian MEP and
outspoken critic of his greedier colleagues. 'None. They're just using this
daily allowance to increase their salary, in a legal but very illegitimate way.'

And that's the problem with the Brussels expenses system: the rules are so loose
and the cash on offer is so lavish that some politicians can't help themselves.
Or, rather, they can help themselves , with the blessing of the system , to
taxpayers' money.

The recent scandals at Westminster over home-flipping and 61,600 duck-houses may
have forced MPs here to clean up their act, but the same cannot be said for
their European counterparts. MEPs are still extraordinarily well rewarded by an
expenses system that , unlike just about every other business , doesn't demand
receipts.

A good example is the allowance , of about 644,000 , that MEPs are given for
running their offices in the UK. That's paid to them regardless of how much they
actually spend, and no receipts are required.

It's a very generous sum. For the programme, we calculated the costs of renting,
equipping and running a typical office. Of course, costs can vary massively:
designer furniture, state of the art computers and the poshest location in town
will strain the budget.

Some years, expensive equipment will need replacing; other years not. But it's
perfectly possible to run a decent office for about half what the Parliament
actually pays its MEPs.

And when it's to their advantage, these politicians are very enthusiastic about
budgeting. Going through the expenses details posted by most MEPs on their
websites, we found at least 20 of Britain's 72 MEPs underspent on their office
allowance by at least 610,000 last year.

We asked what they'd done with the money. Their political parties , Labour,
Conservatives, Lib Dems and UKIP , replied on their behalf saying the MEPs were
hanging on to the surplus cash until the end of the Parliamentary session in
2014, and then they'd repay it.

So we asked how much they handed back at the end of the last session, in 2009.
They said that they didn't start keeping figures until recently so they couldn't
tell us if anyone had ever handed back any money. One MEP, however, does repay
her surplus. Liberal Democrat Liz Lynne handed back about 615,000 last year ,
but it wasn't easy. Officials in the finance office were so unused to anyone
making repayments that it took them a long time to work out how to issue a
receipt.

And then there's the staffing allowance. That gives MEPs up to 6200,000 a year
to employ people in the UK and Brussels.

Unlike the office allowance, politicians can claim only for what they pay out,
but, once again, there are huge variations on how they use the money.

Almost 20 of Britain's MEPs are sleeping with their employees. That's not a new
sex scandal: it's just they've put their spouses and partners on the payroll.
Hans-Peter Martin calls it 'a family feeding system', and like MEPs from most
other countries apart from Britain, he wants to ban close family members being
employed.

Along with the Greeks, we are the nationality most prone to employing family
members. When the matter was last put to a vote, British MEPs lobbied hard
against the ban , and won an extension to 2014.

German MEP Ingeborg Grassle refers to it as 'The British Exemption', and
believes it's so outrageous it damages the reputation of the European Parliament
and obscures its hard work on tackling serious economic and social problems.

Among the best-paying employers of family members are two Labour MEPs. Michael
Cashman, the former EastEnders actor, pays his civil partner Paul Cottingham
between 630,000 and 635,000 to work part-time as his personnel manager, while
Stephen Hughes employs his wife, Cynthia Beaver, to head up his staff, research
and media relations, paying her 640,000 to 645,000 a year.

At least two former MEPs have run into trouble with the staffing allowance. Den
Dover was booted out of the Tory party after it emerged he paid huge sums into a
company run by his wife and daughter. He denies any wrongdoing and has begun a
legal action to hang on to 6500,000 which the European Parliament has demanded
back.

One-time UKIP member Tom Wise is half-way through a two-year prison sentence in
a British open jail for a blatant breach of the rules. He blew some of his
staffing allowance on a car and fine wines.

Now, with brazen cheek, Wise is among a group of past and present MEPs fighting
to keep their generous pension packages. MEPs contribute nothing to their
retirement funds , the taxpayer picks up the entire tab , and yet five years in
office qualifies them for a 614,000-a-year pension.

In the past, they also had an optional top-up pension fund which they could pay
into. Although it's now been scrapped, it will still pay out to those who
contributed earlier.

When the terms were changed to increase the retirement age and scrap the offer
of a lump sum , the sort of changes the rest of us face , a group of MEPs lodged
a challenge in the European Court. Among the nationalities of those complaining,
the largest single group is British.

Hans Peter Martin fumes: 'It's a slap in the face of the taxpayer, of the voter,
of anybody who has any kind of difficulty making money in the proper way.'

And even after MEPs have also worked out their future pensions, there's still
more cash to be claimed , this time for commuting between the UK and the
Parliaments in Brussels and Strasbourg.

This is one area where the expenses system has been tightened up. Some MEPs were
caught charging for business class tickets, but buying cheap budget airline
ones, so now they must produce receipts.

But even that hasn't stopped the problems. Nikki Sinclaire, elected as a UKIP
member but now sitting as an Independent after falling out with party leaders,
is being investigated after putting in a claim earlier this year for more than
6800 for a round-trip drive from the UK to Strasbourg, and presenting a ferry
ticket for her car as proof.

A disaffected member of her staff then revealed the MEP had actually flown to
Strasbourg, on a cheap ticket costing about 6570 less. Miss Sinclaire has since
said she bought the ferry ticket and had meant to drive, but changed her plans
at the last moment.

Even sticking to the rules can bring in the cash. Lib Dem Chris Davies is a
campaigner for tougher rules on expenses, but he's also remarkably honest about
how he and his colleagues benefit from the present system.

'I make money out of it,' he says.

He thinks some of the allowances paid are completely unnecessary. For instance,
while he's sitting on a plane between Manchester and Brussels every week, he's
clocking up two allowances on top of the actual cost of the plane ticket ,
because the system pays extra for both the distance travelled and the time spent
on the journey.

This money is meant to cover costs of items like parking, or excess baggage, and
the cost of food on the journey. The allowances can easily add up to a couple of
hundred pounds a week.

Once again, these allowances are paid without receipts. Since our European
representatives are already on a salary of more than 680,000 a year , that's
615,000 more than our MPs at Westminster , you'd think they could afford to pay
for their own coffee and a sandwich.

In fact, the amount they earn in salary and allowances means at least one MEP
can splash the cash on his own party faithful. The British National Party's Nick
Griffin used more than 67,000 of his salary and allowances so that members of
the BNP and their families could enjoy their summer fete. He bought a marquee,
wetsuits and kayaks for youngsters.

Mr Griffin is just one of the scores of MEPs doing very well financially out of
the taxpayer. Our investigation has shown that when you add up the 'running
costs' of our European parliamentarians , their salary, pension and expenses ,
each one costs the taxpayer about 6400,000 a year.

Two weeks ago, David Cameron slammed the EU as 'immune from reality' and blocked
a demand for a budget rise of almost 6 per cent.

If members of the European Parliament are forced to join the age of austerity
that's affecting everyone else, they could start by examining the money they
spend on themselves.

* Dispatches: Riding Europe's Gravy Train is on Monday at 8pm on Channel 4.

COMMENT , Page 16

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 13, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Brussels ruling threatens free entry museums for locals

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 131 words


Museums may have to stop granting free entry to local people because EU rules
say the policy discriminates against other Europeans.

The scheme that enables people who live in Carlisle to enter Tullie House Museum
without paying is likely to be scrapped because it breaks the EU law. Carlisle
city council has been told it is discriminating against other EU nationals by
giving preferential treatment to local people. It will either have to charge all
visitors or let everyone in free. Michael Owen, the UK Independence Party's
candidate in Carlisle at the general election, said: "This is proof that the UK
is no longer governed by Westminster, but by the EU."

The European Court of Justice has previously ruled against the Italian
government for letting pensioners into museums for free.

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            November 12, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Nigel ad it 'lucky'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 93 words


AN advertising banner saying "Vote UKIP" caused a plane crash that left the
party leader badly injured on election day.

Nigel Farage, 46, said the crash report's findings brought back "very bad
memories" of the incident.

The Air Accidents Investigation Branch probe said Mr Farage and pilot Justin
Adams, 45, were lucky to survive the crash in May.

It said the banner got caught in the tail fin at Hinton-in-the Hedges airfield
in Northants.

Mr Farage, who escaped with broken ribs, said last night: "I'm still not over it
mentally but I will have to live with that."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PLANE CRASH: Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DST


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 12, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

. . .AS THOUSANDS OF ROMANIANS FLOCK TO FIND WORK IN UK

SECTION: NEWS; 15

LENGTH: 189  words


BRITAIN is the top destination for job-seeking Romanians, overtaking previous
favourites Germany and Italy, a survey has revealed.

Last month more than a quarter of Romanian job applications abroad were for the
UK. In October there were 10,170 applications for work in the UK, compared with
6,501 in Germany.

The employment study, by online recruitment agency Tjobs. ro, found 99 per cent
of the 5,000 Romanians surveyed wanted to find a job in the UK. More than
two-thirds - 68 per cent - said they were looking for work as skilled labour
while 29 per cent were searching for jobs needing higher qualifications. One in
three said they would accept an unskilled position.

The agency says there are two million job seekers a year in Romania, of which
206,000 signed employment contracts through Romanian recruitment agencies last
year.

UKIP MEP Gerard Batten said: "According to Government figures there are millions
out of work and hundreds of thousands of jobs to be cut. They also say most new
jobs are taken by foreigners. These figures from Romania prove British workers
will always come at the bottom of the pile for this Government."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 12, 2010 Friday 5:42 PM GMT

We can't lecture the Chinese when our students are trashing buildings and
beating up policemen

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 911 words


My fellow Telegraph Blogger, Ed West, wrote a splendid piece on the
extraordinary hoo-hah over the suggestion that there was some serious
threatagainst the saintly Alibhai-Brown arising from the playful comments of
aConservative councillor.

Not wishing to have my collar felt by the police, I will refrain from anycomment
on that particular incident, which I understand was sparked off by Ms Brown's
statement that "nopoliticianhad the right to comment on human rightsabuses, even
the stoning of women in Iran".

Strangely enough, I half agree with her. I would not ban politicians from
commenting on such matters,but I do wish we could have a rest from it all.
Indeed, I ventured the opinionin the House of Lords the other day that if we
overdo ourgratuitousadvice toother sovereign states on how they should run their
countries, we might come toreceive some advice from them on how to run ours.

No doubt our Chinese friends had a pretty good laugh at the TV news showing our
happy students in democratic Britain express their delight at their lot
bytrashing buildings and assaulting the police, but they are too well-mannered
togive us the benefit of their advice without being asked. More
constructively,perhaps some Islamic states might make some suggestions abouthow
Sharia Law could help us to deal with the hordes of drunken,
vomiting,fornicating, fighting fools infesting our city centres on Friday and
Saturdaynights.

In the meantime, I wonder how those lecturerswho have supported the violence in
Millbank this week would feel if an actiongroup of taxpayers were to turn up to
smash and burn their homes to protest atthe way in which they abuse the
taxpayers who pay their salaries.

That would be quite deplorable, but it would be very hard not to permit oneselfa
ghost of a smile.

...

I am glad that so many of you found my account of how I fell into Europhilia asa
young man, but discovered in the real world of Brussels that the EEC wasindeed
morphing through a process of ever closer union into a pan-Europeanstate, of
some interest.

And I am grateful to those like Chryston, duyfken, maurenonourf (who
rightlythought UKIP lacks clout), sheonah, steve tierney, captain croydon,
trevedic,badgeresq, and others for their understanding of the point of my blog.

Some of you, including raw, picked up my point about voting to join the
CommonMarket in 1972.  Well, I have to confess again that as a Member of
Parliament, Idid have a vote. MJ Hope C was quite right to say that I should
have listened toEnoch Powell. Maybe if he had not been on the same platform as
Tony Benn (who Ithink was still WedgwoodBenn in those days) and Barbara Castle
more peoplewould have listed to him, which was a good point made by leaping cat.

Like mike new land and others, I thought that all that stuff about 'ever
closerunion' was just a bit of contintenal emotional hype.So, much as I regret
having to say it to daniele and others who asked why were wenot told, I have to
say we were, but we did not listen.

M J Hope C, castalian and many others asked me what I am going to do about
it;some like chrystom suggested that we need a Tea Party or even that I
shouldlead it.In these blogs, in the House of Lords and at political meetings, I
am doing mybest topersuadepeople to understand what is happening and to do
somethingabout it themselves.  I am a lot older than Sarah Palin and a lot less
rich thanher backers. Back inthe midSixties I saw that the Macmillan government
was going wrong and decidedto do something about it. Five years later I was in
the House of Commons. So thequestion is not so much what am I going to do about
it as what are you going todo?Or indeed, as jackade asked, what about Farage?

Yes, we do need a Tea Party. Although I think a good many of that group
inAmerica are alarmingly peculiar, they showed that withenergyand commitment
amajor political party can be forced to change direction. So why do you not
doit?  I did it 45 years ago. It is possible.

Waramess, jabjabhook, british independence, and a lot of others,  had a
longbleat about it all, but why not get stuck in and do something yourselves?

And that is the answer to backs 2 the wall, who asked why I do not join UKIP.All
we need is to realign the Conservative (or for that matter the Labour)Party.
Daniele suggested that the 50 or so Tory rebels should leave the ToryParty and
join UKIP.  What good would that do?  They would probably lose theirseats.  They
could be part of the Tea Party within the Conservative Party. Oh,yes, daniele
also asked me if I ever flew out of Croydon. No, not commercially,though I did
fly a Chipmunk there just for fun in the mid Fifties.

There was some discussion about whether Parliament could decide what the
lawshould be.  Well, who else?  Sadly, there was some confusion over what is
rightand what is legal with aparticularlysilly comment from bogbeagle claiming
it ishis duty to disregard what Parliament decrees if his conscience says it
iswrong.  Presumably we all have that duty then, or is it restricted to him
alone?

Even a five-year-old could see that would mean anarchy.

There were many other interesting comments but I thought that IrishNeanderthal's
contribution at 3.11 pm on Monday was well worth a read, as wasJohn-Bracewell's
list of 150 disadvantages of EU membership.As for TJ, who pompously announced
that "no one in their right mind cares whatNorman Tebbit says", what can we
deduce from the fact that he cares enough toread and comment on my blog?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday

NATION STATES ARE DEAD

LENGTH: 524 words


EU CHIEF SAYS THE BELIEF THAT COUNTRIES CAN STAND ALONE IS A 'LIE AND AN
ILLUSION'

BY DANIEL MARTIN POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

THE age of the nation state is over and the idea that countries can stand alone
is an 'illusion' and a 'lie', the EU president believes.

In one of the most open proclamations of the goal of a European superstate since
the heyday of Jacques Delors, Herman Van Rompuy went on to denounce Eurosceptism
as the greatest threat to peace.

Tory backbenchers condemned the inflammatory comments in the speech made by Mr
Van Rompuy to mark the 21st anniversary of the fall of the Berlin Wall.

They said it proved that David Cameron would have a battle on his hands if he is
to prevent extra powers being handed to Brussels.

Last night 23 Conservative MPs, including former leadership contender David
Davis, rebelled in the Commons by demanding a referendum if the Lisbon Treaty is
amended Z even if ministers argue the changes do not affect the UK. Their call
was defeated.

Mr Van Rompuy's speech in the German capital told his audience that 'the time of
the homogenous nation state is over'.

He added that the 'danger' of Euroscepticism was spreading beyond the confines
of countries such as Britain and was becoming a stronger force across the whole
continent.

'We have together to fight the danger of a new Euroscepticism,' he declared.
'This is no longer the monopoly of a few countries.

'In every member state, there are people who believe their country can survive
alone in the globalised world. It is more than an illusion Z it is a lie.'

The Belgian equated Euroscepticism with fear, which eventually leads to war Z
echoing former French president Francois Mitterrand's famous phrase that
'nationalism is war'.

'The biggest enemy of Europe today is fear,' he said. 'Fear leads to egoism,
egoism leads to nationalism, and nationalism leads to war.

'Today's nationalism is often not a positive feeling of pride in one's own
identity, but a negative feeling of apprehension of the others.'

In a strong defence of the euro, he said the recession would have been far worse
if France still had its franc and Germany still had its mark.

Again employing the imagery of war, he said: 'Just imagine the big recession of
2008/09 with the old currencies. It would have resulted in currency turmoil and
the end of the single market. A currency war always ends in protectionism.'

And in a section about the fall of the Berlin Wall, he praised the 'statesmen of
1989 Z Helmut Kohl, Francois Mitterrand, Jacques Delors'.

There was no mention of Margaret Thatcher, who as British prime minister at the
time argued against closer integration.

Last night newly-elected UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: 'Rumpy Pumpy is unfit to
govern. As I warned last year, this man is an overpaid catastrophe who wants to
abolish our nation. The only non-nation is Belgium, his own country.

Backbench Tories warned that such views were now on the rise in Brussels.

Conservative MP Douglas Carswell said: 'At last we see the real intentions of
the Eurocrats. If that's what Mr Van Rompuy believes, he should at least get
elected by someone before he says it.'

d.martin@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Euroscepticism leads to war, says Van Rompuy

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 421 words


EUROSCEPTICISM leads to war and a rising tide of nationalism is the European
Union's biggest enemy, Herman Van Rompuy, the president of Europe, has told a
Berlin audience.

Mr Van Rompuy linked hostility to the EU and the idea that countries could leave
the Union to a revival of aggressive nationalism.

"We have together to fight the danger of a new Euroscepticism. This is no longer
the monopoly of a few countries," he said.

"In every member state, there are people who believe their country can survive
alone in the globalised world. It is more than an illusion: it is a lie."

He made the comments on Tuesday, less than a fortnight after David Cameron, the
Prime Minister, declared that he was a Eurosceptic after his battle in Brussels
to block a sharp rise in the EU budget at a time of national austerity.

Bill Cash, the Conservative chairman of the Commons European scrutiny committee,
said: "It is not anti-European to be pro-democracy. The problem is that the
democratic base for the EU is wanting."

A spokesman for Mr Van Rompuy stressed that he was not talking about Mr
Cameron's brand of Euroscepticism but about people who wanted to leave the EU.
"It is nothing to do with what Mr Cameron thinks. It is a point that Britain or
other countries are not able to survive on their own. I am sure Mr Cameron would
agree with that," he said.

Daniel Hannan, a Tory MEP who is opposed to EU membership, dismissed the idea
that countries could not go it alone. "Norway and Switzerland seem to be
scraping by somehow, with higher living standards than anyone else in the EU.
Neither seem to have been involved in a war in recent years," he said.

Mr Van Rompuy and other senior EU officials are concerned about the spread of
Eurosceptic groups, such as Ukip, to Germany and the Netherlands. Mr Van Rompuy,
who was appointed a year ago, believes the new nationalism is based on fear.

"The biggest enemy of Europe today is fear. Fear leads to egoism, egoism leads
to nationalism, and nationalism leads to war," he said. "Today's nationalism is
often not a positive feeling of pride in one's own identity, but a negative
feeling of apprehension of the others."

Conservative MPs last night rebelled against Coalition moves to accept EU
"economic governance" plans from Brussels.

In a Commons vote, 23 Tory MPs voted to oppose the decision to accept new
measures that will allow the EU to conduct "surveillance" of nations' budgets.
Ministers said Britain had an assurance that it would not be affected by the new
rules.

Editorial Comment: Page 29

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage plane crash caused by banner;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 99 words


The light aircraft carrying Nigel Farage, the Ukip MEP, which crash-landed
during the election campaign was brought down by a party banner it was towing,
investigators said.

Mr Farage, 46, pictured, was unconscious when he was pulled from the wreckage at
an airfield at Brackley, Northants, on May 6. The Air Accidents Investigation
Branch said the cable attaching the banner wrapped around the tailplane, which
caused the plane's nose to drop.

Justin Adams, 45, the pilot, could not prevent the crash. Mr Farage suffered
broken ribs and facial injuries, while Mr Adams had more serious injuries.

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Rompuy sparks UK fury

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 121 words


HERMAN Van Rompuy provoked fury last light after he savaged British national
pride and openly called for a European superstate.

The President of the European Council branded Euroscepticism "a lie" while
warning that nationalism ultimately leads to war.

Delivering his first Europe Address in Berlin, Belgian Mr Van Rompuy echoed the
views of former French President Francois Mitterrand and former European
Commission President Jacques Delors.

Tory Eurosceptics reacted with outrage.

Conservative MP for Shipley, Philip Davies, said: "Harking back to the days of
Mitterrand and Delors shows that the EU is living in the past."

And UKIP leader Nigel Farage said: "Mr Van Rompuy is an overpaid catastrophe who
wants to abolish our nation."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday

QUOTE OF THE DAY

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 36 words


Quote of the day 'Mr Van Rompuy is an overpaid catastrophe who wants to abolish
our nation' UKIP leader NIgel Farage slams eC PresIdeNt HermaN vaN romPUy aFter
tHe eUroCrat's stroNgest Call yet For a sINgle-state eUroPe

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 11, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Rompuy EU 'war' warning

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 119 words


EUROPEAN president Herman van Rompuy sparked fury yesterday by saying it was a
"lie" that countries could survive by themselves. In a rambling speech, the
Belgian declared that the era of the "nation state" was over.

And he even warned that if countries try to break away from the EU it could lead
to WAR.

He claimed: "The biggest enemy of Europe today is fear. Fear leads to egoism,
egoism leads to nationalism and nationalism leads to war.

"In every member state there are people who believe their country can survive
alone in the world. It is more than an illusion - it is a lie."

But UKIP leader Nigel Farage hit back: "The only fear that I have is of his
bureaucracy." The Sun Says - Page Eight £160k EU dogs gym - P12

LOAD-DATE: November 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          November 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Bribes to get foreign criminals to leave UK triple to £1,500

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 709 words


BRIBES paid to get foreign criminals to leave the UK have tripled in the last
month, the UK Border Agency has revealed.

When hard-working families are being stripped of their child benefit by the
Government, murderers and rapists who agree to be flown home from prison are
being given up to £1,500 in cash

The astonishing figure is more than the annual allowance for a family with a
single child and comes after a Border Agency shake-up.

Thousands of hard-pressed families were left reeling by Chancellor George
Osborne's cuts to the child benefit system. Currently, a couple with one child
get £1,055 annually. They stand to lose that sum if one of them earns more than
£44,000 a year.

Fiona McEvoy, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said last night: "It's a total
disgrace that public money is being used to bribe foreign criminals like this.

Insulting

"If they've broken the law they should be deported, not rewarded with cash
handouts. Crackpot schemes like this are just frittering away much-needed cash
and completely insulting to ordinary people struggling to make ends meet".

The new total was revealed in a letter from the Border Agency's chief executive,
Lin Homer, to the Home Affairs Committee.

Ms Homer told MPs that the overall value of the relocation packages for foreign
offenders under the Facilitated Returns Scheme had been cut "due to

the current economic situation", but admitted the amount of cash those currently
serving sentences will receive had increased from £500 to £1,500.

There are fears that even though the total figure has been cut from a potential
maximum of £5,000 in grants with £500 in cash to the new £1,500 in cash, the
bill to the British taxpayer will be higher.

Under the previous system, few criminals would have been able to apply for the
extra assistance to help with expenses such as setting up a business and paying
rent.

Now, everyone who chooses to leave the UK can get up to £1,500 - with £500 on a
pre-paid credit card and between £250 and £1,000 handed over within a month of
returning to their home country when they show how they intend to spend it.

The amount they get varies depending on whether they have already served their
sentence or are still behind bars.

Last year, foreign nationals leaving under the facilitated return scheme

accounted for more than 30 per cent of the 5,535 overseas offenders removed from
England and Wales, the Home Office said.

More than 2,000 convicts took advantage of the "pay-if-you-go" scheme, which
could eventually cost the public purse £6.3million.

Last night, Immigration Minister Damian Green defended the changes.

"Every day that a foreign national is held in prison costs the taxpayer money -
that is why I want to see them removed from the UK at the earliest opportunity,"
he said.

"The Facilitated Returns Scheme is a practical solution that not only saves the
taxpayer money in the long run, but also means foreign criminals are removed as
soon as possible."

The chairman of the influential Home Affairs committee, Keith Vaz yesterday
said: "Given that the UKBA is seeing its budget reduced it is only right that
the total amount given under the facilitated return scheme has been reduced."

OPINION: PAGE 12

5,000 BORDER AGENCY JOBS TO GO

THE UK Border Agency is axing 5,000 more jobs, it announced yesterday - minutes
after admitting it was struggling to deport illegal immigrants.

Chief executive Lin Homer made the embarrassing confession while being grilled
by MPs on the powerful Home Affairs committee.

Ms Homer revealed that more than 30,000 extra asylum seekers have been granted
permission to stay in the UK since February and that there had been a further
four per cent rise between July and September.

Moments later Ms Homer told the MPs she was axing the 5,000 jobs over the next
four years. The job cuts come on top of 1,700 job losses made so far this year
and account for more than 20 percent of the agency's 24,000-strong workforce.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP said: "They can't be serious if they admit they are
struggling to deport illegal immigrants in one breath and announce 5,000 job
cuts with the next.

"They shouldn't be cutting jobs, it's a false economy. All the money they think
will be saved in wages will only be spent through public services used by extra
migrants."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                          November 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

5,000 BORDER AGENCY JOBS TO GO

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 174  words


THE UK Border Agency is axing 5,000 more jobs, it announced yesterday - minutes
after admitting it was struggling to deport illegal immigrants.

Chief executive Lin Homer made the embarrassing confession while being grilled
by MPs on the powerful Home Affairs committee.

Ms Homer revealed that more than 30,000 extra asylum seekers have been granted
permission to stay in the UK since February and that there had been a further
four per cent rise between July and September.

Moments later Ms Homer told the MPs she was axing the 5,000 jobs over the next
four years. The job cuts come on top of 1,700 job losses made so far this year
and account for more than 20 percent of the agency's 24,000-strong workforce.

Gerard Batten, Ukip MEP said:

"They can't be serious if they admit they are struggling to deport illegal
immigrants in one breath and announce 5,000 job cuts with the next.

"They shouldn't be cutting jobs, it's a false economy. All the money they think
will be saved in wages will only be spent through public services used by extra
migrants."

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                          November 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Could Britain throw a Tea Party as well?;
The success of the US political movement has prompted talk of a domestic
equivalent. The search is on for our Sarah Palin ...

BYLINE: Ian Burrell Media Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 740 words


TEA, THE poet William Cowper observed, is "the cup that cheers". Unless you're
an American, in which case it's a symbol of oppression worth hurling into the
Atlantic.

In Britain, tea parties are occasions associated not with revolution but with
the aroma of Earl Grey, the gentle clink of china and mad hatters.

The talk on the British right wing yesterday was of the stirring of a new
popular alliance inspired by the grassroots right-wing Tea Party movement that
has swept America.

Tea Party candidates will stand in the next election in Britain - so predicts
Kelvin MacKenzie, the former editor of The Sun - and the shock jock Jon Gaunt
has announced his entry into politics at the head of an EU referendum campaign.

In Britain, as in the US, a grassroots constituency feels ignored by mainstream
politics and is intolerant of big government. Its members share a desire for
lower rates of taxation, although in the UK campaigners' ire is directed as much
at perceived over-interference by the European Union as at the dominance of the
British state. Libertarian views do not generally extend to a belief in the
benefits of immigration.

Similarities are drawn between the American movement - whose symbolic leader is
Sarah Palin - and the emerging network of libertarian and protest groups on the
British right, ranging from the TaxPayers' Alliance and Young Britons'
Foundation to the Release Britain from Brussels group.

Brits jumping on the bandwagon include the death-defying Nigel Farage, leader of
the UK Independence Party, which polled almost a million votes in the general
election, the hard-boiled Tory MEP Daniel Hannan, and the commentator Richard
Littlejohn, who sees the Tea Party's constituents as "small business owners,
lawyers, housewives".

"It's no longer about party politics and left and right," declared Gaunt.
"There's a lot of disaffected people out there. On Question Time I'm the one who
gets the most cheers because I'm independent of any party."

Gaunt, who was sacked by the radio network TalkSport for calling a local
councillor a Nazi, said the broadcasting sector was also failing to reach a
disenfranchised group. "Radio stations are conservative and many people are
scared of me, which is a shame. There's no one in Britain that can get people
reacting the way I do."

Another populist radio presenter, Nick Ferrari of LBC in London, suggested that
his former tabloid newspaper colleague Mr MacKenzie, along with the former Home
Office minister and star of Strictly Come Dancing Ann Widdecombe, would make an
effective joint leadership of a British Tea Party.

"Kelvin has an extraordinary touchstone with his readers, he always has, and
that fantastic ability to show he is not 'one of them', " said Ferrari.

"With Ann Widdecombe, she can't dance to save her life but she has huge
popularity." Mr MacKenzie, a Sun columnist, did not immediately seize the
mantle, suggesting that Boris Johnson, the Mayor of London, would make a strong
leader of a British movement in favour of the small state and low taxation. "Why
wouldn't Boris Johnson do it? With the exception of his Kosovan view of housing
benefit in upscale neighbourhoods, I would have thought in all other respects he
would have had a pretty normal reaction."

Mr MacKenzie said mainstream politicians were fearful of the notion of a popular
grassroots movement such as the Tea Party. "I think there will be Tea Party
candidates over here in various elections, possibly council elections," he said,
"but in all honesty I don't see them doing all that well.

"My problem in the UK is I can't see the number of people who would be of
quality to stand. Have we got people who, when they were tested and we looked
into their background, we would want to follow?"

Mrs Palin has admiringly branded some of the Tea Party's firebrand female
candidates with the ferocious tag "mama grizzlies", but in a nation of pet
lovers the cat-loving Ms Widdecombe might be more resonant. Gaunt has identified
as an ally the combative campaigner and mother Jo Clearly, who ran a Facebook
campaign against the march through Wootton Basset by the radical group Islam4UK
and has now set up Release Britain from Brussels.

There is no pretence to unity within the British right. Littlejohn says of Ms
Widdecombe, for instance: "Once spoken of as a future Home Secretary, she is now
reduced to swinging from a trapeze on Strictly Come Dancing, like one of the
cartoon hippos in The Jungle Book."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Jailed, gypsy crusader who plotted £2.9m benefits scam

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 405 words


CALLS to reform Britain's "soft-touch" welfare system were made last night after
a leading gypsy rights activist was jailed for masterminding a multimillion
pound benefits scam.

Lavinia Olmazu, 31, abused her position advising the Roma community to help 172
immigrants illegally get National Insurance numbers.

Olmazu and her boyfriend Alin Enachi, 29, showed clients how to siphon
£2.9million in benefits, a jury heard. But police said the scheme could have
netted more than £10million if it had gone undetected.

Yesterday, at London's Southwark Crown Court, the mother of one was jailed for
two years and three months.

Olmazu admitted helping Romanian Roma fraudulently get the NI numbers needed to
claim child benefits, working tax credits and child tax credits. It also meant
they got NHS treatment.

Enachi, who acted as a part-time interpreter, also admitted fraud. He was jailed
for two years and eight months. Yesterday, there were calls for a toughening up
of the welfare system. Emma Boon, from the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The ease
with which they were able to cheat the system is absolutely astonishing."

Gerard Batten, immigration spokesman for UKIP, said: "Our soft-touch welfare
state is a magnet for migrants looking for an easy life at others' expense."

The jury was told that Olmazu was a highly-qualified educational therapist and a
world-renowned campaigner for Roma rights. She worked with Haringey and Waltham
Forest councils in north London as an "inclusivity out-reach worker" for Roma.
She had even addressed the United Nations in New York on Roma rights.

Immigrants from Romania are not entitled to a NI number and benefits unless they
can prove they have a job.

But Olmazu and Enachi, who moved to Britain from Romania in 2007, handed out the
NI numbers under the guise of a charity, Roma Concern, using bogus bank
statements and letters claiming the applicants had work.

A total of 368 false applications were made - of which 172 were successful.

Migrants would pay in cash for help with applications before going on to receive
benefits, if their applications were successful.

Yesterday, Judge Deborah Taylor told Olmazu: "You identified individuals who
wished to be involved in this scheme and in doing so, abused your position with
a number of charities."

Supt Bernie Gravett said: "This complex scam would have defrauded the UK
authorities of more than £10million had the plan fully succeeded."

OPINION: PAGE 12

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Olmazu 'abused her role'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

New wave of illegals is feared

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 125 words


FEARS of a new wave of back-door immigration to the UK grew yesterday as the EU
dropped visa requirements for Albanians and Bosnians coming to Europe.

From next month, they can visit for up to three months without applying for
permission beforehand.

But experts fear it will allow migrants and criminal gangs to slip into the UK
illegally across the weak borders of Europe's "Schengen" countries, where
borders are weak. This includes most EU countries apart from UK and Ireland.

UK Independence Party immigration spokesman, Gerard Batten, said: "They don't
stop off in France or Spain, they come to Britain where they get into our
benefit system or become cheap labour."

Alp Mehmet, for MigrationWatch, said: "We have to maintain control over our
borders."

LOAD-DATE: November 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Jailed, gypsy crusader who plotted GBP 2.9m benef its scam

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 404  words


CALLS to reform Britain's "soft-touch" welfare system were made last night after
a leading gypsy rights activist was j ailed for masterminding a multimillion
pound benefits scam.

Lavinia Olmazu, 31, abused her position advising the Roma community to help 172
immigrants illegally get National Insurance numbers.

Olmazu and her boyfriend Alin Enachi, 29, showed clients how to siphon GBP
2.9million in benefits, a jury heard. But police said the scheme could have
netted more than GBP 10million if it had gone undetected.

Yesterday, at London's Southwark Crown Court, the mother of one was j ailed for
two years and three months.

Olmazu admitted helping Romanian Roma fraudulently get the NI numbers needed to
claim child benefits, working tax credits and child tax credits. It also meant
they got NHS treatment.

Enachi, who acted as a part-time interpreter, also admitted fraud. He was jailed
for two years and eight months. Yesterday, there were calls for a toughening up
of the welfare system.

Emma Boon, from the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The ease with which they were
able to cheat the system is absolutely astonishing."

Gerard Batten, immigration spokesman for UKIP, said: "Our soft-touch welfare
state is a magnet for migrants looking for an easy life at others' expense."

The jury was told that Olmazu was a highly-qualified educational therapist and a
world-renowned campaigner for Roma rights. She worked with Haringey and Waltham
Forest councils in north London as an "inclusivity out-reach worker" for Roma.
She had even addressed the United Nations in New York on Roma rights.

Immigrants from Romania are not entitled to a NI number and benefits unless they
can prove they have a job.

But Olmazu and Enachi, who moved to Britain from Romania in 2007, handed out the
NI numbers under the guise of a charity, Roma Concern, using bogus bank
statements and letters claiming the applicants had work.

A total of 368 false applications were made - of which 172 were successful.

Migrants would pay in cash for help with applications before going on to receive
benefits, if their applications were successful.

Yesterday, Judge Deborah Taylor told Olmazu: "You identified individuals who
wished to be involved in this scheme and in doing so, abused your position with
a number of charities."

Supt Bernie Gravett said: "This complex scam would have defrauded the UK
authorities of more than GBP 10million had the plan fully succeeded."

LOAD-DATE: November 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Olmazu 'abused her role'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 9, 2010 Tuesday 11:01 AM GMT

Could a revived UKIP be the British Tea Party?

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 495 words


Iain Martin in the Wall Street Journalwarns David Cameron that UKIP could once
again be a headache for the Conservatives. He writes:

But in May 2010, the Conservatives were lucky. UKIP was led by Lord Pearson of
Rannoch, a figure with a good track record in business and in aiding Soviet
dissidents during the Cold War. But by his own admission, Pearson wasn't cut out
to be the leader of a political party. He struggled in the election campaign,
admitting that he had trouble with concepts such as the precise size of the
deficit.

Even under Lord Pearson, UKIP still managed to secure more than 900,000 votes at
the general election - an increase of 50% or so on 2005.

Pearson stood aside and the party now has its old leader back. Nigel Farage is a
formidable campaigner and a media performer of considerable skill.

Farage's re-election is timely because last week was an unmitigated disaster for
the Conservatives on Europe. After its capitulation to both the EU and European
Court of Human Rights, I was surprised the Government didn't then announce that
we'd have to hand Joanna Lumley over to Brussels as hostageand slaughter 10,000
puppies a year under EU rules and there's, er, nothing we can do because it's
the rules we have to play by, but it could have been 20,000 puppies, you know,
if we'd not managed to secure a compromise.

Farage also went on Sky News toclaim that UKIP could become the British Tea
Party, appealing to those who feel "overtaxed, over-governed, not being listened
to".

The Tea Party analogy is not ridiculous. Although Lord Pearson might not have
been suited to party leadership, he did have several very interesting ideas,
such as empowering citizens to bring about referenda, devolving lawmaking powers
to county level or below (why should the smoking ban or fox hunting be decided
by Westminster?), as well as various other Hannanite(Hannanist?) ideas about
electing police leaders. In other words, rather than just promising freedom from
Brussels, UKIP promises freedom from Westminster.

All of these ideas are appealing, and timely, for the popular rage against the
political class has not gone away; and politicians would be wrong to think it is
entirely motivated by moats, duck houses and taxpayer-funded soft porn. Rather,
people feel Parliament is a conspiracy to keep power in the hands of a few
like-minded individuals rather than allowing the people a chance to decide
matters for themselves.

And the political class is never more like-minded, and never more out of touch
with public opinion, than when it comes to Europe.

On this and many other issues, such asimmigration, tax and political reform,
UKIP is in tune with a large minority or clear majority of public opinion. But
it is also lucky in that politicians have never been less liked, and we have
never had more senior politicians with almost zero experience of life outside
politics. Nigel Farage, in contrast, is a human being. And that's generally an
advantage in politics.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 8, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SPLENDID, self-deprecating humour of the [...];
HICKEY

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 63 words


SPLENDID, self-deprecating humour of the sort we need more in politics was in
evidence yesterday from newly re-elected and plane crash death-defying leader of
the UK Independence party, nigel Farage.

After watching early morning tV, he declared on twitter: "how on earth can
William hague be introduced on the Andrew Marr show as eurosceptic? It's like
calling me teetotal." huzzah!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 8, 2010 Monday

Only critics get sack in Brussels

BYLINE: George Whelan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 151 words


SENIOR Eurocrats caught fighting or running brothels have been allowed to keep
their jobs.

European Commission records show an official who got a suspended jail sentence
for "keeping a brothel" was demoted instead of being sacked.

Officers who assaulted colleagues just had their promotions delayed, while a
retired man had his pension cut after being convicted of paedophile offences.
Two others were sacked only after being absent from work for several years.

Tory MEP Roger Helmer, who obtained the files from the EC's Investigation and
Disciplinary Office, said the treatment was absurdly lenient.

He compared them to the case of Ukip MEP Marta Andreasen, who was sacked as the
EC's chief accountant in 2004 for highlighting concerns that the EU's budget was
open to abuse.

He said: "If you do almost anything, no matter how outrageous, you get a slap on
the wrist - unless you criticise the European project."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            November 8, 2010 Monday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

HICKEY

SECTION: COLUMNS; 15

LENGTH: 63  words


SPLENDID, self-deprecating humour of the sort we need more in politics was in
evidence yesterday from newly re-elected and plane crash death-defying leader of
the UK Independence Party, Nigel Farage.

After watching early morning TV, he declared on Twitter: "How on earth can
William Hague be introduced on the Andrew Marr show as Eurosceptic? It's like
calling me teetotal." Huzzah!

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            November 8, 2010 Monday

US scientists unite against climate sceptics

BYLINE: Suzanne Goldenbergguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 655 words

ABSTRACT

Two separate initiatives will provide information for journalists seeking
contact with climate experts

FULL TEXT

Hundreds of scientists have signed up to two new campaigns that seek to regain
control of the message about climate science.

The two separate efforts come barely a week after  produced a new Congress that
tilts strongly towards climate sceptics.

The , the leading climate science organisation, is due to launch a new web
service offering journalists accurate scientific information about climate
change. The AGU is also working on an iPhone app.

In a separate effort, scientists have recruited 40 colleagues for a "rapid
response unit" whose members will give interviews or go on air to relay the
science on climate change.

Those involved in both initiatives deny a political agenda, and say their
projects were in the works before the Republicans took the house of
representatives.

"AGU's climate science Q&A service addresses scientific questions only. It does
not involve any commentary on policy," Peter Weiss a spokesman for the AGU said.
"There is no campaign by AGU against climate sceptics or congressional
conservatives."

But with the new conservative majority in Congress threatening to investigate
climate scientists and to block the Obama administration from regulating
greenhouse gas emissions, the effort will inevitably touch on politics, said
John Abraham of St Thomas University in Minnesota.

"Our goal is not to become partisan. But if we are going to respond to
denialists' claims which are unfounded in science then perhaps we are going to
be viewed as going toe-to-toe with critics," he said.

The AGU initiative is a re-run of the service offered last year in the run-up to
the . This year, the project, which will be staffed by about 700 volunteers, is
intended to run for two to three months.

The effort is a reflection of the enormous complexity of climate science and the
difficulties of communicating with the public, said Katharine Hayhoe, a
professor at Texas Tech University who is on the committee steering the AGU
effort.

"You can't be an expert in one area and be able to understand all of climate
science. It is such a complicated topic nowadays," she said. "What the AGU is
trying to do, because it is the premier scientific organisation in this field,
is to translate the very latest science into terms people can understand."

It is also an effort to overcome scientists' traditional reluctance to operate
in the public arena.

Abraham set up the rapid response unit with Scott Mandia of Suffolk County
Community College in New York, and Ray Weymann of Carnegie University. The three
say they will serve as a conduit for media seeking contact with climate experts.

"The scientists I talk to are really scared. We are scared because we see a
window for opportunity closing and it may be too late. I am not going to say the
window is closing because of the election though. It's a physics problem,"
Abraham said.  from the Ukip deputy leader, Viscount Monckton.

News of the initiatives, first reported in the , brought strong reaction from
climate sceptic websites. "Bring it on!" said .

Democrats, especially those from coal states or the midwest, who voted for
climate change bill in the house lost heavily in the elections. A majority of
the Republican newcomers deny the existence of man-made climate change or oppose
regulation of greenhouse gas emissions, according to an analysis by Think
Progress.

The new make-up of Congress has alarmed climate scientists such as Michael Mann,
who have been targeted by sceptics. "There are legitimate uncertainties," Mann
told a meeting of science writers at the weekend, "but unfortunately the public
discourse right now is so far from scientific discourse."

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                November 7, 2010
                                 First Edition

Can Clegg and Cameron patch up coalition cracks?;
Six months after bonding in the Rose Garden, the Conservative-Lib Dem government
is feeling the strain as the reality of power and the need to compromise bites.
Matt Chorley assesses how deep the fissures run

BYLINE: Matt Chorley

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1518 words


'We are in a bloody coalition," says an exasperated senior Lib Dem. "We cannot
get all of our policies. We have just got to stand there and take the hit."

And they have, down to nine points in one opinion poll. As the coalition marks
its first six months this week, those at the top cling to the memories of their
Rose Garden political marriage like newly-weds refusing to tip the sand from the
honeymoon suitcase. Now the hard graft of living together has begun, with
ill-feeling fuelled by suspicions of vanity, differing ambitions and one partner
trying to change the other.

Just as the parties are trying to prove how united they are, along comes the
by-election to replace disgraced Phil Woolas in Oldham East and Saddleworth,
where we will get our first taste of coalition partners slugging it out on the
streets of a three-way marginal.

Conservatives are uneasy about the apparent swing leftwards over penal policy,
defence and Europe. As one veteran Tory backbencher puts it, "there is too much
Liberal and not enough Conservative" in the LibCon coalition. Meanwhile, Lib
Dems look on in horror as tuition fees rise and their Tory partners whoop at
cuts in welfare for the poorest. "The cracks are definitely emerging," said a
Lib Dem minister. "We are starting to realise that the honeymoon is over and we
don't agree on everything, and never will."

Senior Lib Dems take heart from the fact that even with polls showing them to be
at "rock bottom, people are still pleasant to us in the street". That may be
about to change.

Tuition fees

More than 20,000 students are expected to take to the streets of London on
Wednesday when Aaron Porter, the president of the National Union of Students,
will issue a stark warning to Lib Dem MPs who vote in favour of fees rising from
£3,290 to as much as £9,000 a year from 2012. They will be targeted by a
student-led "decapitation strategy", with halls of residence mobilised to oust
MPs who break their pledge "to vote against any increase in fees in the next
parliament and to pressure the Government to introduce a fairer alternative".

It is understood that as well as increasing the pressure in Nick Clegg's
Sheffield Hallam seat, Mr Porter will announce that other Lib Dems in the line
of fire will include Don Foster (Bath), Stephen Williams (Bristol West) and
Simon Wright (Norwich South). "What we are doing is holding politicians to
account for the things that they said and, in truth, they face the consequence
of not being re-elected," Mr Porter said.

Mr Clegg's aides insist they are relaxed about speculation of high-level
resignations over tuition fees, though the Home Office minister Lynne
Featherstone revealed she is still weighing up her options, and the former Lib
Dem leader Sir Menzies Campbell has insisted he will vote against, with as many
as 25 potential rebels in the Lib Dem ranks.

In a podcast yesterday, Mr Clegg admitted his policy to scrap tuition fees had
fallen victim to "the compromises of coalition government" but insisted the new
package - including a £150m National Scholarship Scheme and raising the payback
threshold from £15,000 to £21,000 - would "promote social mobility rather than
entrench inequality".

Ministers will hold further talks with MPs this week in an attempt to avert a
large-scale revolt. Meanwhile, The Independent on Sunday understands that Labour
will oppose the policy's "central idea" which they claim amounts a two-thirds
cut to public funding for teaching in higher education. The move forms a major
strand of the Labour leader's strategy to drive a wedge between discontented
Liberal Democrat backbenchers and ministers.

Welfare

The get-tough message from Iain Duncan Smith, the Secretary of State for Work
and Pensions, aimed at the jobless and feckless has pleased the traditional Tory
right, but the detail of plans to cut state help, including housing benefit, and
impose time limits on other handouts has alarmed Lib Dems, and presented Labour
with the chance to exploit divisions in the coalition.

Andrew George, a senior Lib Dem backbencher, will use a debate on Tuesday to
warn the coalition's spending plans "do not protect the vulnerable" and cuts to
housing benefit "look as if they will place some of the most vulnerable in our
society at the highest risk".

The latest wheeze to be announced this week will be a plan to compel "the idle"
to attend courses preparing them for the world of work. Jobseekers will be
expected to spend 30 hours or more every week for four weeks to give them an
"extra push" towards getting paid employment.

Almost 1.5 million people have been receiving out-of-work benefits for nine out
of the past 10 years. A source said: "The goal is to break into the habit of
worklessness." It is part of a welfare reform White Paper that will set out
plans for a Universal Credit, combining existing unemployment benefits into one
payment.

But writing in the IoS today, Douglas Alexander, the Shadow Work and Pensions
Secretary, warns: "My real fear is that in contrast to [Labour's] record of
progress, the new Conservative government, like previous Conservative
governments, will prove much better at cutting benefits than getting people into
work."

Europe

A budget increase, a defence treaty with the French, votes for prisoners - no
wonder the Eurosceptics have rediscovered their voice, and just as the
charismatic bon vivant Nigel Farage returns for a second stint as leader of the
UK Independence Party.

"There are millions of historically Eurosceptic Tory voters who will be utterly
shocked and appalled at the direction of this Conservative-led coalition," Mr
Farage told the IoS, claiming Mr Cameron was leading the "most Europhile Tory
party since Edward Heath".

Mr Farage also made a direct appeal to Conservative Eurosceptics to defect to
UKIP. "I regard them as friends, people like Philip Hollobone and Philip Davies,
but frankly they are impotent, and what they ought to do, even given the
vagaries of our voting system, is come and join UKIP."

The row over votes for prisoners fuelled tensions over relations with the
Continent, as many right-wingers casually (and wrongly) confused the European
Court of Human Rights, which made the ruling, with the European Union. Mr
Cameron said the ruling left him feeling "physically ill", but left-wing Lib
Dems remarked that: "How we treat our prisoners is an important mark of how
civilised a society we have."

Brian Binley, a veteran Tory, is leading a cross-party group opposing the plan.
He said: "From the Government we are seeing fine words but I don't think we are
seeing action of the required order."

Civil liberties

The Home Office will this week drop plans to give anonymity to rape defendants,
in the face of criticism from all sides. The proposal surfaced in the coalition
agreement, but no one could be sure from where it originated. Many Tories were
suspicious of their Lib Dem partners.

Lib Dem MPs hoping for similar U-turns on control orders for terror suspects and
the proposal to store email and phone records are likely to be disappointed.
Stephen Gilbert echoes the thoughts of many of his colleagues: "From a
libertarian perspective, it will take a lot of persuading to get me to support
this."

Arms will be twisted and deals will be done. All governments have internal
tensions. No one is saying, as they did in the early days, that the coalition
will not last, just that the hard reality of a long political slog is only just
beginning to dawn.

DOUGLAS ALEXANDER COMMENT, PAGE 37

LEADING ARTICLE PAGE 38

THE ACE OF SPADS

He always promised that this Government would not have the same number of
"hangers-on" as Gordon Brown's, and David Cameron has been as good as his word.
However, despite a repeated pledge to "put a limit on the number of special
advisers", the Cabinet is employing more "spads" than Mr Brown's administration.

The Prime Minister was publicly embarrassed by the revelation that his former
personal photographer, Andy Parsons (top), is now paid by the taxpayer. But the
revelation was the tip of the iceberg.

Nicky Woodhouse, the film-maker behind the "WebCameron" operation, last week
began making films for the Government. Mr Cameron also brought his "personal
stylist" over from Conservative HQ. Anna-Maren Ashford, formerly Tory "head of
brand communications", is now in the Cabinet Office - where the party's ex-head
of digital strategy, Rishi Saha, is deputy director of digital communications.
The new employees are on short-term contracts, meaning they avoided a more
stringent selection process.

The Lib Dems have also used the tactic, moving Tim Snowball - formerly Nick
Clegg's campaign tour organiser - into the Deputy Prime Minister's office as a
private secretary. Mr Clegg's former deputy speech-writer, Zena Elmahrouki, has
also turned up in the Cabinet Office.

The appointments have attracted criticism from allies and opponents.

The Labour MP Michael Dugher said: "When half a million people are going to lose
their jobs from the public sector, David Cameron thinks it's right to use
tax-payers' money to fund a personal vanity photographer and a personal
film-maker."

Brian Brady

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                November 7, 2010

Observer Magazine: THE ROAD TO WELLNESS: It was a health scare - and the
emergence of a pot belly - that sent the comedian Sue Perkins, a self-described
exercise refusenik, to the gym... and into the arms of an ex-Marine intent on
whipping her into shape

BYLINE: WORDS SUE PERKINS PHOTOGRAPH PAL HANSEN

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1568 words


A while back I had a health scare. Even as I begin, I'm aware this already reads
like something out of Take A Break magazine. All I can say is: don't worry, the
story doesn't end with me marrying a transgendered pony and setting up a love
nest in the New Forest in the face of frenzied local opposition. It's a tad less
dramatic than that, but do stick with it nonetheless, as it promises to be a
heartwarming tale of one myopic woman's journey from cynicism to, well,
healthier cynicism.

It began with dizzy spells. Then, over a period of weeks, I started to feel
increasingly faint. I would catch my breath while doing simple tasks. I would
break into sweat and shake like a leaf. On the odd occasion, while climbing the
stairs, I'd wobble and then fall over - like a Weeble in breach of its trade
description.

Oh, and I had chest pains. Right slap-bang in the middle of my torso - which
apparently, if you're going to have a pain in your chest, is the worst place to
have it. I didn't know that. Up until that point, I had just assumed that I was
harbouring a six-month-old burp, which would at some point decide it had been
gestating long enough and release itself, loudly, into the world. Probably,
knowing my luck, at a crucial mortgage-application meeting. Or a funeral.

One morning, on the advice of a doctor friend, I visited the A&E department of
my local hospital.

I was admitted to triage, and thence, sharpish, after a blood-pressure test, to
the Resuscitation Unit. There is nothing guaranteed to remind oneself of one's
mortality than the sight of a 50-year-old estate agent drunk out of his nut
going into cardiac arrest - whereupon his shiny suit is cut from his body and
paddles applied to his chest.

To cut a long story short, I was diagnosed and am fine.

The estate agent was diagnosed, but is still an estate agent, for which, sadly,
there is still no cure. Out of the many pieces of healthcare advice issued to me
by the excellent nursing staff, one proved more unpalatable than a full,
un-anaesthetised colorectal examination.

I was told to join a gym.

Now let me make my position on gyms entirely clear.

We all belong to a tribe. You might be a religious or a family person - that's
your tribe. You might like playing football and sleeping with prostitutes. Well,
the tribe I belong to loves watching old or subtitled movies. We're excited by
intense conversations on art, literature and the meaning of things. We like
nature viewed at a dawdled pace, not a sprint. We might wander through a glade
and remark on the chiaroscuro light. We would not run, because running is both
unseemly and tiring. This is because my tribe believes that "fitness" should be
viewed with the same sort of suspicion as a Jennifer Aniston film or adherence
to the founding principles of the UKIP.

I should confess that I have broken rank and been a member of a gym before. I
signed up in 1999, and that brief moment of pen wielding was, as it turned out,
the most exercise I ever did in that building. A smiley young person called
Hazel with an unfeasibly tight ponytail took me for my "induction". Her trainers
squeaked on the shiny floor. She had that walk that fit people have. It's more
of a bounce. It shrieks: "Look at my springy arches! Wow! I can't wait for my
next spinning class!" Hazel showed me a variety of dark grey machines that I was
never going to get on, a variety of exercises that I was never going to perform,
and a variety of stretches that made her look like a flatulent giraffe. I nodded
a lot and then left, returning home via an almond croissant.

(By way of a postscript, I should say that Hazel and co did have the last laugh.
Having direct-debited them my subs per month, I forgot to cancel my membership
until 2003. This meant that that single trip cost me around £ 2,880. I should
have at least nicked a towel on my way out.)

Amid the stink and grunt of other people's endeavours,

I did come across one interesting thing that day. There, in the silence of the
changing rooms, among all the lockers and the hair dryers, stood a long row of
sheitels. For those not familiar with a sheitel, it's a wig worn by observant
Jews. For the first time I got a sense that the gym was not just a place where
you stand in front of a mirror mindlessly kissing your guns but somewhere you
could leave your tribe (and your hair) at the door and be yourself, away from
the restrictions of family, friends or religious observance.

In the end it wasn't my quasi-philosophical ruminations about the gymnasium or
even the pleas of my doctor that

I responded to. The reason I find myself lifting a kettle bell in endless
repetition is far simpler. I have developed a little pot belly. A gut. A
midriff. And that is just not on.

I ALWAYS ASSUMED THAT the reason I've never run a marathon is because I haven't
bought a pair of shorts and arrived at the start line. It never occurred to me
that I have not run a marathon because I am incapable of running a marathon, and
that were I to try, my legs would shatter after 100 metres and my nipples wear
to rose-coloured washers.

And so it was that I was forced to confront my total lack of fitness.

All that is going to change, because I now have "goals" and "staged and
achievable targets". My personal trainer is an ex-Marine. He is rigorous, but
kind and unspeakably buff. We both know that our relationship is building to
that ultimate moment when I finally get round to asking: "Kevin? Have you
actually killed someone?"

OK, so his real name is not Kevin. It's obvious that nobody called Kevin would
have survived Marine training. But I can't tell you his real name because that
would be breaking the code of honour that we have established. We are comrades.
Brothers in arms. What goes on in the gym stays in the gym. Capiche?

Kevin has told me a little bit about the Marines. It seems that they exercise
until they vomit, and then exercise again. Then they get drunk and repeat the
cycle. Sometimes for fun they drag used car tyres around Dartmoor.

Kevin has managed, in two sessions, to do what every single partner of mine has
been trying to get me to do for

20 years. Shut up. Within five minutes of starting I was wordlessly squatting
and jumping and lifting. Where has

my famously contrary personality gone? Where are my polysyllabic splutterings?
Why, when a stranger tells me to

crucify my back on some kind of hydraulic iron maiden,

am I not turning round and saying: "No"?

What would happen if I did say no? Would it be like Neo at the end of The
Matrix? Would a thousand hand weights drop to the floor silently? Would I
realise that I am The One,

and that my purpose in life was to illuminate the senseless stupidity of running
on a treadmill? Well, let me answer that question. Were I to say no, then Kevin
would tell me to stop being an arse and order me to bench press my own body
weight until he told me to stop. And who's going to argue with more than 6ft of
ex-paramilitary?

The real truth is I don't resist because I don't want to.

I want to hang my life on a peg in the changing rooms

and become a senseless sack of skin awaiting a pummelling. It's the only place I
don't have to make any decisions, the

only place where I feel comfortable submitting to someone else's demands; I even
quite like the way my body screams

in pain. I like to feel its limitations, and I like to feel those limitations
being stretched. Sadly, I also like cake and vodka. (One step forward, two steps
back. . .)

I won't say that I'm a total convert. I'm not going to be one of those people
who talk about how "amaaaazing" it is to have released all those endorphins.
I've had sex, so I know how to release endorphins. Sorry. I'd rather have sex
than a dumbbell any day, and you can quote me on that.

I have come to understand that my hatred of the gym was based on fear and
prejudice, a tribal resistance to science, to improvement. But to ignore my
aging physicality and not try and become the strongest and fittest I can be is
curmudgeonly at best, and wilfully ignorant at worst.

To those who say: "Why pay for a gym when the outdoors is free?", I say this.

In nature there are no medicine balls. You can lie on an outsized gourd doing
sit-ups, but in reality outsized gourds are hard to come by unless you live in a
farmers' market. They are certainly hard to come by on Hampstead Heath. Yes, you
can sit on the back of a Labrador shaking pond water from its back and try to
treat it like an ersatz power plate, but it's hard to pull off and it is
unlikely to do the trick.

I'm trying to achieve a balance between the old Luddite me and the new
sports-cognisant me. And so every morning, come rain or shine, I stroll with my
dogs. That walk is my lifeline, my sanity. It gives me ideas, it clears the
darkness out of my brain. But twice a week I skip off for my grisly and tortuous
assignations with a Green Beret. Will I keep going? Will I stick at it? Of
course. As we Marines say: "Semper fidelis."

Sue Perkins is in Giles and Sue Live The Good Life, starting on 8 November on
BBC2. The book of the series (BBC Books, £ 18.99) is out now

Captions:

"For the first time I got the sense a gym was not just a place where you stood
in front of a mirror mindlessly kissing your guns": Perkins works it out

"A senseless sack of skin awaiting pummelling. . .": Perkins feels the pain

SUE PERKINS WAS BORN IN 1969. SHE IS A COMEDIAN, ACTRESS AND TV PRESENTER
PHOTOGRAPH PAL HANSEN FOR THE OBSERVER


LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                November 7, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Eurocrats kept brothels

BYLINE: Simon McGee

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,2

LENGTH: 820 words


HIGH-RANKING Eurocrats have been allowed to keep their jobs despite being caught
running brothels, getting into fistfights and misusing the diplomatic bag, it
has emerged. The Sunday Times has seen internal disciplinary records of the
European commission which disclose misbehaviour by senior officials ranging from
petty theft to serious crime, including paedophilia. The apparent leniency of
many of the penalties over a five-year period has prompted MEPs to accuse the
commission of protecting its own.

Roger Helmer, the Conservative MEP who obtained the files, said: "These cases
show that officials can commit almost any criminal offence or break any rule and
get away with a slap on the wrist when other employees would get the sack."

Among 69 cases where the Investigation and Disciplinary Office of the Commission
(IDOC) handed out disciplinary measures, three serving commission staff were
discovered to be profiting from prostitution - but only demoted rather than
sacked.

One received a suspended sentence in court for "living off immoral earnings and
keeping a brothel" and in 2009 was Continued on page 2 W W with one being
injured by the other" and an instance of a worker "hitting a colleague at the
workplace".

In both cases the perpetrators were given just a 12-month delay in their next
promotion - which at the European commission is based on length of service
rather than merit.

Other Eurocrats could not resist using their positions to grab freebies or
fiddle expenses.

A written warning was issued to one last year after "receiving services free of
charge from a removals firm contracted by the commission to provide services".

There was a demotion in 2009 for an official who gave "false statements... with
a view to obtaining an overpayment of the annual travel allowance", and a
written warning in 2008 for someone's "irregular use of the diplomatic bag to
send undeclared belongings". This refers to parcels or containers used for
official mail. A number of officials succumbed to nepotism and corruption. In
2009 a commission financial officer was demoted for handling "files concerning
himself and committing gross errors to the detriment of the community budget".

A project manager received a written warning for "failing to declare a conflict
of interest... concerning projects involving an entity headed by a person of his
acquaintance".

In an indication of the reluctance to sack ineffective Eurocrats, one official
was dismissed in 2008 only when he or she "had been absent from work, without
explanation, for several years". A second was dismissed in 2009 after a
"prolonged unauthorised absence for almost two years".

The most serious IDOC judgments were reserved for those convicted of paedophilia
and other sex crimes. A retired official had his pension cut in 2009 following
"a criminal conviction for acts of paedophilia", and a probationer official was
not retained in 2008 after his "arrest and conviction for offences linked to
child pornography".

Another official was dismissed in 2005 for "paedophile acts" and a second was
disciplined in the same year for "depraved behaviour (explicit sexual acts in a
public place)".

Helmer contrasted the lenient approach towards many officials with how the
commission sacked an official who dared to criticise it.

Marta Andreasen was fired in 2004 as chief accountant of the commission for
going public about concerns the EU's budget was open to fraud and abuse. She was
sacked for "disloyalty and breach of trust", even though she only spoke out
after her initial private warnings were ignored. She is now a UKIP MEP.

A European commission spokesman said: "The commission has rules and procedures
in place to deal with these cases seriously... However, disciplinary sanctions
have to be proportionate, just like sanctions under criminal law."

He added that no one could judge the relative severity or leniency of a penalty
without having the full facts of a case before them.

W W Continued from page 1 "downgraded" by the commission, "the official's
conduct being considered to reflect adversely upon his function and upon the
image of the institution," the IDOC concluded. Two other officials were
similarly demoted in 2007 for running and profiting from what the commission
euphemistically called "a day hotel, located in a street frequented by
prostitutes, which is used to receive private customers in search of
discretion". IDOC records do not say which countries the officials worked in.

Drink-driving by an official who caused an accident at the wheel of a commission
car resulted in no more than an official reprimand in 2007 on the grounds that
their conduct was "contrary to the dignity of the function".

Eurocrats also appear to be a pugilistic bunch, with three separate fights last
year leading to disciplinary action.

These included "a violent altercation between two officials in a commission
building,

Violent and corrupt EU officials keep jobs

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 7, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Only UKIP anti-EU;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 67

LENGTH: 58  words


I WONDER how many of your readers who are saying we should get out of the EU
voted for UKIP at the last election, as I did.

If they did not vote in that way I cannot see how they have the nerve to
complain.

After all, they must have known that all three of the main parties are pro-EU
and that they must now suffer the consequences.

S Colwill, Southampton

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

So who is brewing up brewing up a British Tea Party Tea Party then?

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 855 words


IT IS said that the Tea Party uprising that rocked American politics this week
could not happen in Britain. We British are too conservative with a small "c"
ever to go for a radical or maverick Right-wing alternative to the mainstream
parties and their oh-so-conventional leaderships, say many pundits.

To which I say rubbish. The disenchantment of the mass of the population with
the political class is at least as great here as across the Atlantic. While the
coalition is thankfully getting to grips with the twin scourges of big
government and fiscal incontinence - the main bugbears in the US - there are if
anything more key issues on which the entire political elite is out of step with
the populace in Britain.

For instance there is no law and order party in the legislature, something that
would be unthinkable in the US. The Conservatives, Lib Dems and Labour all
preach the unpopular creed of "community" punishment, so called presumably
because it's the community that gets punished.

And Britain has no party that reliably puts Britain first. All the Westminster
parties agree increasing foreign aid spending is more important than protecting
higher education spending. When push comes to shove none is prepared to defend
British sovereignty against encroachment by supranational bodies such as the
European Union and European Court of Human Rights.

Last week David Cameron claimed there was nothing he could do to stop a 2.9 per
cent increase in the EU's budget, bleating about his Eurosceptic credentials
even as he signed away another £450million of taxpayers' money. He also told the
Commons he was powerless to defy the ECHR's order to give prisoners the vote
even though the prospect made him "physically ill".

When Margaret Thatcher was in Downing Street it was joked that she had a female
assistant called Tina (There Is No Alternative). Tina was at Maggie's side
during some thrilling episodes: winning the Cold War, taming the unions,
securing a British rebate from the EU budget and taking back the Falklands to
name but four. For Cameron Tina is an unconvincing alibi on inglorious dates,
becoming accustomed to a dates, becoming accustomed to a diet of surrender to
Brussels and Strasbourg.

PARLIAMENT has no taxcutting party, no party prepared to get a proper grip on
immigration and no party that will call time on the obscene amount of taxpayers'
money being spent on climate change initiatives, despite huge swathes of public
opinion passionately desiring all these things.

The official opposition, Labour, is thoroughly discredited after many failed
years in office and operates from the big state Left rather than the small
government Right. At times like these the third party is the natural refuge of
protest votes. But the third party is in government now so no can do. A very
large section of the electorate is thoroughly alienated. It recalls the
parliamentary expenses scandal that engulfed all three main parties, thinks
about their failure to articulate its concerns and craves something new.

All of which brings me to Nigel Farage, the newly-elected leader of UKIP,
Britain's fourth party. If ever there was a case of a politician being in the
right place at the right time this is it. Over the past few years Mr Farage has
become well-known and well-liked. He is fluent and charismatic on television and
his misad-ventures in a bi-plane at least demon strated a buccaneering spirit.

When UKIP last posed a major threat to the Conservatives, during Farage's first
spell as leader, it was disgracefully smeared as being full of "fruit-cakes and
closet racists". The Tories will not get away with that this time. Even the BBC
has started giving UKIP fairer coverage.

It gained nearly a million votes at the last election - a 50 per cent increase
from 2005 - even though it was understood that it had very little chance of
wining any seats.

Now that Cameron has moved definitively into the soft centre of politics the
field is open for Farage. He can pick and choose his targets: the EU and its
insatiable demands for British sovereignty and money, obviously. The
jurisdiction of the ECHR and its constant siding with criminals against
law-abiding people, likewise. UKIP would remove us from both and damn the howls
of outrage from the liberal elite.

Farage tells me he will also campaign for stronger defence and considers the new
military partnership with France a huge strategic mistake.

Many will surely agree. And he will make cutting the cost of climate change
measures to British households and reducing those huge foreign aid cheques part
of a broad "small government" agenda too.

Looking across the Commons at Ed Miliband floundering, David Cameron putting his
personal photo grapher on the public payroll to better document his ignoble
compromises and Nick Clegg breaking his flagship promise on tuition fees, it is
obvious that none of them is well-placed to catch the next wave of public
opinion. Farage, the antihero and outsider, is the perfect man to fill a protest
vote-shaped hole in British politics. He says he is ready "to speak for the
disenfranchised millions". I think he may be right.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: VICTOR: Nigel Farage Picture: STEPHEN SIMPSON/PIN
Picture: STEPHEN SIMPSON/PIN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

ILLEGALS' NEW SOFT TOUCH ROUTE TO BRITAIN;
A Daily Express writer reports from the border between Greece and Turkey that
has just become the busiest entry route to the EU and on the immigrants who
won't stop until they reach here

BYLINE: Anil Dawar

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 1320 words


IT IS the new soft centre of Western Europe and through it every day come
hundreds of illegal immigrants, many of them with only one destination in mind:
Britain. This week I witnessed how, yet again and despite what the leaders of
the European Union insist to the contrary, another corner of the continent gives
the lie to claims that illegal immigration is being clamped down upon. Here
between Turkey and Greece is another porous border and the human cargo brought
in by people traffickers are seizing their opportunity to take advantage of it.
Nearly all of them are expected to head to Western Europe and specifically this
country.

The EU's most vulnerable border has seen specialist armed guards deployed here
but the multi-national teams from the EU agency Frontex (responsible for
policing the borders of member states and preventing precisely this sort of
eventuality) is overstretched and evidently unable to cope with the influx from
Turkey into Greece.

Moving Frontex units to this border for a brief set period has cut the numbers
entering the EU illegally but it is little more than a sticking plaster.

As Sir Andrew Green, of Migration-Watch, said yesterday: "If this policy of
using Frontex border guards is to deter illegal entry into the EU it is hard to
see how a two-month operation can achieve that. More serious measures are
needed."

Gerard Batten, immigration spokesman for the UK Independence Party, claims:
"Border policing should not be a matter for the EU as a whole. Each country
should be free to police their borders as they see fit. "But the fact that
failed asylum seekers are being allowed to make their own way out of Greece
undoubtedly shows what a farce the whole exercise is. As soon as these people
are let go they will undoubtedly head towards the UK and other countries where
they can take advantage of a soft benefits and asylum policy."

This stretch of the border between Turkey and Greece has become the busiest
point of entry for illegal immigrants seeking a better life in the EU. In part
that reflects the success of crackdowns on illegal crossings from north Africa
into Spain, Italy and Malta. Those determined to reach Western Europe now head
for this southern Turkish border.

Statistics show that 35,000 arrests for illegal entry were made here in the
first six months of 2010 alone - 90 per cent of all illegal crossings detected
in the EU during that time. This compares to the peak annual total of 30,300
illegal crossings to Spain from north Africa in 2006.

Residents in the Greek village of Vyssa, close to the border, say it has become
a hot spot for people after they have made an illegal crossing.

Vassilios Papandreou, 27, a farm labourer, said: "For years we have seen people
passing through the village but recently there have been many more, especially
from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq.

"They come here and just sit 'This two-month exercise is only a sticking
plaster' down in the town square or railway station and wait to be picked up by
the police. I don't think they avoid the police because they know they will be
taken to a detention camp and given food and water and put on a bus to Athens.
If they are trying to get to Italy, France or England it is probably the easiest
part of the journey."

In Vyssa a dozen or so men sit drinking strong coffee outside a café next to a
whitewashed church overlooking the square. It is also where the outsiders gather
every morning - knowing at 6am a police van will arrive to round them up and
take them to the nearby detention camp.

As the sun rises farmers readying for a day's work tending their crops or
herding sheep regularly see eerie silhouettes of figures walking out of the mist
towards the small train station.

Outside the locked waiting room are the remnants of a log fire that kept the
illicit travellers warm the previous night. Today some more have gathered.

Samir, a young Afghan, knows enough English to explain that he left his country
last month and has come here like everyone else through Turkey. His family paid
money to a man to help guide him this far. "I want to go to America or England.
I will see the Queen.

"I want a nice life. In Afghanistan there is no nice life. If police come we
will go with them. It is not so bad, I will get there in the end. I promised my
father."

The border here is unfenced. Alongside a rough dirt track that marks the end of
Greek control a row of unmanned sentry towers stare at similar structures just
yards away on the Turkish side.

Vyssa's mayor Panagiotis Siankouris fears the leaky border will never be
plugged: "Since March we've had a big explosion in numbers and what worries us
is how we will deal with this problem."

Ilkka Laitinen, the executive director of Warsaw-based Frontex, described
Greece's decision to trust failed asylum seekers to quit the country by
themselves "a real challenge" to fighting illegal immigration in the EU.

Under agreements between Athens and Turkey, immigrants who enter Greece from the
Turkish side of the border can be sent back 'I want a nice life in England. I
will get there' to Turkey, he said. But in practice few are. "The readmission
agreement between Greece and Turkey is not effectively implemented," Laitinen
added.

Frontex has despatched 175 specialist guards to help police an eight-mile strip
of land between the cities of Orestiada in Greece and Edirne in Turkey.

Greek police spokesman Dhanasis Kokkalakis admitted that while there had been a
reduction in illegal crossings since Frontex had sent reinforcements it was
probably only a temporary solution. "There has been a 25 per cent reduction in
crossings. Maybe it will go back to the way it was before when they leave.
Hopefully it won't and we will have learned new solutions to the problem. "What
it has achieved is that our neighbouring countries now see this as an EU issue
and not just a Greek one. When people cross the border they want to get into
Greece as a step to countries like Britain and Germany. Our border problems are
therefore a problem for Britain, Germany and everyone else too."

The policeman laid much of the blame at the feet of Turkey.

"We have asked that Turkey tightens its border controls but that does not seem
to be happening."

For more than a decade Turkey has sought to become a member of the European
Union, a source of major controversy between existing members, many of whom are
against its admission.

One asylum seeker who made the epic journey across Turkey unhindered and into
Greece was 24-yearold Abdullah Hamid. He travelled 4,000 miles from Bangladesh
to Greece through India, Pakistan, Iran and Turkey.

He was arrested soon after crossing into Greece but like many others was
released because the migrant detention centres were full. He said: "The journey
was very hard and I had no food. Things are better now I am here and I have had
something to eat."

When asked where he planned to go, now he had been asked to leave the country,
Hamid would only shrug his shoulders.

Yesterday, as the Frontex border guards joined forces with Greek police using
sniffer dogs, infra-red goggles and a helicopter, the EU's home affairs
commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom paid a visit to Orestiada, along with Laitinen,
Greek minister Christos Papoutsis and Eric Besson, the French immigration
minister who has contributed a large number of border guards for the operation.

It was announced that there is to be a boost of another 100 Frontex agents in
the coming weeks.

But while these high-profile reinforcements might comfort these EU bigwigs with
the thought that they are at least winning positive headlines for themselves
back home, the truth is that the moment such guards are withdrawn the immigrants
will be back in even greater numbers.

It is their only real chance of a new life in the UK and an opportunity none of
them is about to pass up.

'This two-month exercise is only a sticking plaster'

'I want a nice life in England. I will get there'

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FRONTLINE: EU border guards have been brought in to stop the flood of
migrants into Greece
WAITING GAME: Migrants at the border town of Vyssa yesterday
Pictures: TIM CLARKE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage fights back

BYLINE: Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 204 words


NIGEL Farage launched a stinging attack on Prime Minister David Cameron
yesterday after being re-elected as leader of the UK Independence Party.

The MEP and former party chief beat David Campbell Bannerman, Tim Congdon and
Winston McKenzie in the ballot.

Mr Farage, who received more than 60 per cent of the vote, used his acceptance
speech to criticise the Government and call on disillusioned voters to switch to
UKIP.

He said Conservative policy in Europe could be summed up as "Surrender,
surrender, surrender."

"Patriotic Euro-sceptic Tories are beginning to realise that under David Cameron
their party has ceased to exist," he said. He mocked the Government for cutting
almost every budget while increasing the amount spent on the EU.

Mr Farage told supporters the political class had "never been more out of touch"
and he did not have the "foggiest" idea what Mr Cameron's "Big Society" policy
meant.

A former leader of the party, he stepped down to stand for Parliament but failed
to unseat Commons Speaker John Bercow.

He survived a plane crash on election day. He said it was "miraculous".

Ex-leader Lord Pearson said: "The UKIP crown returns to it rightful owner." He
said he had been "not much good".

PATRICK O'FLYNN: PAGE 17

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage celebrating yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

ILLEGALS' NEW SOFT TOUCH ROUTE TO BRITAIN

BYLINE: By Anil Dawar

SECTION: FEATURES; 20

LENGTH: 1315  words


A Daily Express writer reports from the border between Greece and Turkey that
has just become the busiest entry route to the EU and on the immigrants who
won't stop until they reach here

IT IS the new soft centre of Western Europe and through it every day come
hundreds of illegal immigrants, many of them with only one destination in mind:

Britain. This week I witnessed how, yet again and despite what the leaders of
the European Union insist to the contrary, another corner of the continent gives
the lie to claims that illegal immigration is being clamped down upon. Here
between Turkey and Greece is another porous border and the human cargo brought
in by people traffickers are seizing their opportunity to take advantage of it.
Nearly all of them are expected to head to Western Europe and specifically this
country.

The EU's most vulnerable border has seen specialist armed guards deployed here
but the multi-national teams from the EU agency Frontex (responsible for
policing the borders of member states and preventing precisely this sort of
eventuality) is overstretched and evidently unable to cope with the influx from
Turkey into Greece.

Moving Frontex units to this border for a brief set period has cut the numbers
entering the EU illegally but it is title more than a sticking plaster.

As Sir Andrew Green, of MigrationWatch, said yesterday: "If this policy of using
Frontex border guards is to deter illegal entry into the EU it is hard to see
how a two-month operation can achieve that. More serious measures are needed."

Gerard Batten, immigration spokesman for the UK Independence Party, claims:
"Border policing should not be a matter for the EU as a whole.

Each country should be free to police their borders as they see fit.

"But the fact that failed asylum seekers are being allowed to make their own way
out of Greece undoubtedly shows what a farce the whole exercise is. As soon as
these people are let go they will undoubtedly head towards the UK and other
countries where they can take advantage of a soft benefits and asylum policy."

This stretch of the border between Turkey and Greece has become the busiest
point of entry for illegal immigrants seeking a better life in the EU.

In part that reflects the success of crackdowns on illegal crossings from north
Africa into Spain, Italy and Malta. Those determined to reach Western Europe now
head for this southern Turkish border.

Statistics show that 35,000 arrests for illegal entry were made here in the
first six months of 2010 alone - 90 per cent of all illegal crossings detected
in the EU during that time. This compares to the peak annual total of 30,300
illegal crossings to Spain from north Africa in 2006.

Residents in the Greek village of Vyssa, close to the border, say it has become
a hot spot for people after they have made an illegal crossing.

Vassilios Papandreou, 27, a farm labourer said: "For years we have seen people
passing through the village but recently there have been many more, especially
from Afghanistan, Pakistan and Iraq.

"They come here and just sit down in the town square or railway station and wait
to be picked up by the police. I don't think they avoid the police because they
know they will be taken to a detention camp and given food and water and put on
a bus to Athens. If they are trying to get to Italy, France or England it is
probably the easiest part of the journey."

In Vyssa a dozen or so men sit drinking strong coffee outside a café next to a
whitewashed church overlooking the square. It is also where the outsiders gather
every morning - knowing at 6am a police van will arrive to round them up and
take them to the nearby detention camp.

As the sun rises farmers readying for a day's work tending their crops or
herding sheep regularly see eerie silhouettes of figures walking out of the mist
towards the small train station.

Outside the locked waiting room are the remnants of a log fire that kept the
illicit travellers warm the previous night. Today some more have gathered.

Samir, a young Afghan, knows enough English to explain that he left his country
last month and has come here like everyone else through Turkey. His family paid
money to a man to help guide him this far. "I want to go to America or England.
I will see the Queen.

"I want a nice life. In Afghanistan there is no nice life. If police come we
will go with them. It is not so bad, I will get there in the end. I promised my
father."

The border ere is unfenced.

Alongside a rough dirt track that marks the end of Greek control a row of
unmanned sentry towers stare at similar structures just yards away on the
Turkish side.

Vyssa's mayor Panagiotis Siankouris fears the leaky border will never be
plugged: "Since March we've had a big explosion in numbers and what worries us s
how we will deal with this problem."

Ilkka Laitinen, the executive director of Warsaw-based Frontex, described
Greece's decision to trust failed asylum seekers to quit the country by
themselves "a real challenge" to fighting illegal immigration in the EU.

Under agreements between Athens and Turkey, immigrants who enter Greece from the
Turkish side of the border can be sent back to Turkey, he said. But in practice
few are. "The readmission agreement between Greece and Turkey is not effectively
implemented, " Laitinen added.

Frontex has despatched 175 specialist guards to help police an eight-mile strip
of land between the cities of Orestiada in Greece and Edirne in Turkey.

Greek police spokesman Dhanasis Kokkalakis admitted that while there had been a
reduction in illegal crossings since Frontex had sent reinforcements it was
probably only a temporary solution. "There has been a 25 per cent reduction in
crossings. Maybe it will go back to the way it was before when they leave.
Hopefully it won't and we will have learned new solutions to the problem "What
it has achieved is that our neighbouring countries now see this as an EU issue
and not just a Greek one. When people cross the border they want to get into
Greece as a step to countries like Britain and Germany. Our border problems are
therefore a problem for Britain, Germany and everyone else too."

The policeman laid much of the blame at the feet of Turkey.

" We have asked that Turkey tightens its border controls but that does not seem
to be happening."

For more than a decade Turkey has sought to become a member of the European
Union, a source of major controversy between existing members, many of whom are
against its admission.

One asylum seeker who made the epic journey across Turkey unhindered and into
Greece was 24-year old Abdullah Hamid. He travelled 4,000 miles from Bangladesh
to Greece through India, Pakistan, Iran and Turkey.

He was arrested soon after crossing into Greece but like many others was
released because the migrant detention centres were full.

He said: "The journey was very hard and I had no food. Things are better now I
am here and I have had something to eat."

When asked where he planned to go, now he had been asked to leave the country,
Hamid would only shrug his shoulders.

Yesterday, as the Frontex border guards joined forces with Greek police using
sniffer dogs, infra-red goggles and a helicopter, the EU's home affairs
commissioner Cecilia Malmstrom paid a visit to Orestiada, along with Laitinen,
Greek minister Christos Papoutsis nd Eric Besson, the French immigration
minister who has contributed a large number of border guards for the operation.

It was announced that there is to be a boost of another 100 Frontex agents in
the coming weeks.

But while these high-profile reinforcements might comfort these EU bigwigs with
the thought that they are at least winning positive headlines for themselves
back home, the truth is that the moment such guards are withdrawn the immigrants
will be back in even greater numbers.

It is their only real chance of a new life in the UK and an opportunity none of
them is about to pass up.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: WAITING GAME: Migrants at the border town of Vyssa yesterday
FRONTLINE: EU border guards have been brought in to stop the flood of migrants
into Greece

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

So who is brewing up a British Tea Party then?

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 848  words


IT IS said that the Tea Party uprising that rocked American politics this week
could not happen in Britain. We British are too conservative with a small "c"
ever to go for a radical or maverick Right-wing alternative to the mainstream
parties and their oh-so-conventional leaderships, say many pundits.

To which I say rubbish. The disenchantment of the mass of the population with
the political class is at least as great here as across the Atlantic. While the
coalition is thankfully getting to grips with the twin scourges of big
government and fiscal incontinence - the main bugbears in the US there are if
anything more key issues on which the entire political elite is out of step with
the populace in Britain.

For instance there is no law and order party in the legislature, something that
would be unthinkable in the US. The Conservatives, Lib Dems and Labour all
preach the unpopular creed of "community" punishment, so called presumably
because it's the community that gets punished.

And Britain has no party that reliably puts Britain fist. All the Westminster
parties agree increasing foreign aid spending is more important than protecting
higher education spending. When push comes to shove none is prepared to defend
British sovereignty against encroachment by supranational bodies such as the
European Union and European Court of Human Rights.

Last week David Cameron claimed there was nothing he could do to stop a 2.9 per
cent increase in the EU's budget, bleating about his Eurosceptic credentials
even as he signed away another GBP 450million of taxpayers' money. He also told
the Commons he was powerless to defy the ECHR's order to give prisoners the vote
even though the prospect made him "physically ill".

When Margaret Thatcher was in Downing Street it was joked that she had a female
assistant called Tina (There Is No Alternative). Tina was at Maggie's side
during some thrilling episodes: winning the Cold War, taming the unions,
securing a British rebate from the EU budget and taking back the Falklands to
name but four. For Cameron Tina is an unconvincing alibi on inglorious dates,
becoming ccustomed to a diet of surrender to Brussels and Strasbourg.

PARLIAMENT has no taxcutting party, no party prepared to get a proper grip on
immigration and no party that will call time on the obscene amount of taxpayers'
money being spent on climate change initiatives, despite huge swathes of public
opinion passionately desiring all these things.

The official opposition, Labour, is thoroughly discredited after many failed
years in office and operates from the big state Left rather than the small
government Right. At times like these the third party is the natural refuge of
protest votes.

But the third party is in government now so no can do. A very large section of
the electorate is thoroughly alienated. It recalls the parliamentary expenses
scandal that engulfed all three main parties, thinks about their failure to
articulate its concerns and craves something new.

All of which brings me to Nigel Farage, the newly-elected leader of UKIP,
Britain's fourth party. If ever there was a case of a politician being in the
right place at the right time this is it. Over the past few years Mr Farage has
become well-known and well-liked. He is fluent and charismatic on television and
his misadventures in a bi-plane at least demon strated a buccaneering spirit.

When UKIP last posed a major threat to the Conservatives, during Farage's first
spell as leader, it was disgracefully smeared as being full of "fruit-cakes and
closet racists".

The Tories will not get away with that this time. Even the BBC has started
giving UKIP fairer coverage.

It gained nearly a million votes at the last election - a 50 per cent increase
from 2005 - even though it was understood that it had very little chance of
wining any seats.

Now that Cameron has moved definitively into the soft centre of politics the
field is open for Farage.

He can pick and choose his targets:

the EU and its insatiable demands for British sovereignty and money, obviously.
The jurisdiction of the ECHR and its constant siding with criminals against
law-abiding people, likewise. UKIP would remove us from both and damn the howls
of outrage from the liberal elite.

Farage tells me he will also campaign for stronger defence and considers the new
military partnership with France a huge strategic mistake. Many will surely
agree. And he will make cutting the cost of climate change measures to British
households and reducing those huge foreign aid cheques part of a broad "small
government" agenda too.

Looking across the Commons at Ed Miliband floundering, David Cameron putting his
personal photo grapher on the public payroll to better document his ignoble
compromises and Nick Clegg breaking his flagship promise on tuition fees, it is
obvious that none of them is well-placed to catch the next wave of public
opinion. Farage, the antihero and outsider, is the perfect man to fill a protest
vote-shaped hole in British politics. He says he is ready "to speak for the
disenfranchised millions". I think he may be right.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Picture: STEPHEN SIMPSON/PIN
VICTOR: Nigel Farage

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

He's back Farage re-elected Ukip leader

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 44 words


Captions:

Nigel Farage, the new leader of the UK Independence party, is congratulated by
predecessor Lord Pearson yesterday. Farage, who led the party from 2006 to 2009,
was re-elected after a postal ballot of all 18,000 Ukip members Photograph: Oli
Scarff/Getty Images

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

FARAGE ELECTED TO LEAD UKIP AGAIN;
POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 36 words


NIGEL Farage was re-elected leader of the UK Independence Party yesterday. The
MEP succeeds Lord Pearson of Rannoch at the helm, a year after he stood down
from the top job to fight - unsuccessfully - for a Commons seat.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday

Letters - Know thy cup of Tea

LENGTH: 174 words


Having read John Green's article Who's behind the Tea Party (M Star Nov 4), I
think there is a major issue with his comparison to Britain.

He compares the development of the Tea Party in the US to the development of
UKIP in Britain. This is surely incorrect.

The Tea Party is much more similar in both its methods and its role to the
Freedom Association in Britain, whose membership includes Tory MPs.

Both were established when the conservative parties were in opposition, which
was not the case with UKIP.

Both also operate within those parties, not outside of them as is the case with
UKIP.

And the role of both is to openly promote right-wing ideology while their
"parent" organisations moderate their image in preparation for elections.

I would like to make it clear that while I am certainly not defending UKIP, it
is important that we analyse such dangerous movements as the Tea Party and the
Freedom Association correctly.

The Freedom Association and Daniel Hannan MEP, launched the Tea Party movement
here in February 2010.

MICK CARTY, Hackney E5.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Farage is UKIP No1

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 52 words


ANTI-EU politician Nigel Farage was re-elected leader of the UK Independence
Party yesterday. The MEP - who stood down to fight unsuccessfully for a Commons
seat - got more than 60 per cent of party votes.

Mr Farage, 46, replaces bungling Lord Pearson of Rannoch, 68, who quit in August
saying he was "not much good".

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     November 6, 2010 Saturday 9:08 AM GMT

Nigel Farage returns as leader of UKIP

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 144 words


Many congratulations to my opponent andfriend Nigel Farage, who has been
recalled to the UKIP leadership. Like Alex Salmond, who came back to run the SNP
after a four year absence in 2004, Nigel returns in a far stronger position: his
party members, quite simply, have started to understand how much they owe him.

By chance, I've just started Nigel's book, Fighting Bull. I'm a very slow
reader, but he begins in a typically arresting way:

Sexual intercourse beganIn nineteen-sixty-three(Which was rather late for me)...

It may have been bad timing for Larkin, but it was perfect for me. Because, in
direct consequence of this admirable innovation, I emerged - as ever at the
forefront of fashion and technological advance - into the light of Farnborough
Hospital on Friday 3 April 1964.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Farage is re-elected as leader of UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 72 words


Nigel Farage was re-elected yesterday as leader of the UK Independence Party.
The MEP, who chose to stand down a year ago to fight for a seat in the House of
Commons, took 60.5 per cent of the vote to succeed Lord Pearson of Rannoch. In
his acceptance speech Mr Farage said UKIP was the only party that would offer a
referendum on the Lisbon treaty. Lord Pearson had stepped aside saying that he
was "not much good" at party politics.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage is re-elected as leader of UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 108 words


Nigel Farage was re-elected as leader of the UK Independence Party yesterday.
The MEP took 60.5 per cent of the vote in a ballot of party members to succeed
Lord Pearson of Rannoch.

It comes a year after Mr Farage stood down to fight for a seat in the House of
Commons, though he was unsuccessful. In his acceptance speech he said he was
pleased to be back after surviving a light-aircraft crash on election day in
May. He said UKIP was the only party that would offer a referendum on the Lisbon
Treaty.

Mr Farage was the odds-on favourite to win the leadership, after Lord Pearson
stepped aside admitting that he was "not much good" at party politics.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 5, 2010 Friday

Comment: Boris could be the Sarah Palin of a British Tea Party: A low-tax
anti-European group taking on a corrupt Westminster elite could repeat the US
experience - with the right leader

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1098 words


It was never hard to explain the global fascination with the Tea Party. Angry
Americans always make good copy, especially when they are fronted by suburban
housewives with attitude. As of this week, though, this movement is more than
just another piece of transatlantic political grand guignol. The 26% of American
voters who described themselves as angry as they went to the polls have a party
in their own image now. With three new Republican senators and as many as 60 of
the 83 new Republican members of Congress, the Tea Party is a fully fledged
political factor.

Because it is the engine of this week's spectacular Republican revival, it is
natural to assume that the Tea Party poses an overwhelming challenge to
President Obama's chances of re-election in 2012. If the Republicans can find
the right candidate, and if Obama fails to speak for poor and middle-class
Americans as the Democrats did in 2010, then surely the dynamism that is
powering the Republican fightback will be unstoppable. There is a lot in this,
but it would be a mistake to treat it as inevitable.

An analysis of Tuesday's voting in the midterms shows some reasons why. In the
first place, one in every three Americans who voted in 2008 decided to sit it
out this time. According to estimates by Michael McDonald at George Mason
University, turnout on Tuesday was 42%, compared with 62% in the presidential
contest two years ago. Yet this week's exit polls show that the turnout decline
was not uniform across all demographic groups. Young voters - aged 18-29 - who
famously made up 18% of the total voting electorate in 2008, made up only 11%
this time. By contrast older voters - 65 and over - increased from 16% of the
2008 total to 23% this week. The proportion of black voters declined from 13% to
10%, while whites increased their share by four points.

The much vaunted new voters of 2008 seem to have left the field to the old
voters all over again. Explaining why is not simple. Either way, as a Rolling
Stone blogger observes, it's as though the supposedly game-changing 2008
campaign never happened. The different electoral demography this time around
played strongly in the Republicans' favour. A comparison of exit polling for the
four US general elections since 2004 makes it look as if one cross-section of
Americans - whiter, older and sometimes a bit more male - votes in midterm
elections, while a different and larger cross-section - more racially diverse,
younger and perhaps more female - turns out in presidential years.

Long-term American demography looks to be on the Democrats' side. Other things
being equal, this should all favour Obama in 2012, if he can get the vote out
again and has a resonant message. But the demographics may not help him enough
if the swing to conservatism continues at anything like its current rate. The
share of self-described conservatives has gone from 32% four years ago (and 34%
in 2008) to 41% of those who voted this week. In swing states like Ohio and
Wisconsin, both must-wins for Obama in 2012, the rise in conservative voters was
even larger. That speaks to a public mood shift, not just good Republican
organisation.

As ever, the key to the future is the state of the economy. If unemployment
falls, growth picks up and the deficit begins to come down, Americans are likely
to feel a bit less angry. But it is not a given that this will favour Obama.
Voters may decide that the arrival of the Republicans, with their supply-side
promises, turned things round. Conversely, a continuation of bad economic times
may not automatically be bad news for the president. Voters may conclude that
the Tea Party-driven Congress failed to deliver on its promises.

Everything in American politics, in other words, comes down to who can win the
economic argument as it evolves over the next two years. But since America is a
conservative country, it follows that another well-financed, well-articulated
Republican campaign may triumph in 2012 against an uncertain and defensive
Democratic opponent, just as it did this week. My current instinct is that Obama
will lose in 2012. Most of the political lessons of the economic crisis in the
developed world are that voters are more likely to vote for the right than the
left in worrying times. It happened here and in Germany in fairly moderate ways.
It has happened in America in a more confrontational way this year and could do
so again.

The Tea Party's success nevertheless poses an intriguing question for Britain.
Could something like this happen here? The natural European reflex is to say
that it could not. America is just too different. Centrist "all in this
together" instincts are bred in the bone of the traditions of British one-nation
conservatism and European Christian democracy, so that our centre-right is not
nearly as vulnerable to a populist damn-them-all movement as the Republicans
have been. Yet this may be too complacent.

The Tea Party stands for individualism, libertarianism, low taxes and small
government. It is nationalistic, overwhelmingly white and not interested in the
rest of the world, which it views as a hostile force. An insurrectionary party
of that kind - stripped of the distinctively American aspects like guns, capital
punishment and cultural conservatism - is surely at least conceivable in a
British and European context. In fact, such parties exist in most European
countries already, albeit on the margins. In this country Ukip comes quite close
to this template, and it shares a lot of ground with parts of the Tory party.

If we imagine a British Tea Party as an off-the-peg American franchise we are
asking the wrong question. The cultures are too different. But it is perhaps not
so idle to imagine a remade populist party of the low-tax, anti-European right,
with strong media presence and backing, achieving mainstream success in this
country by campaigning against an out-of-touch and corrupt Westminster elite. It
would certainly need a popular and plausible leader. Such a party has, after
all, triumphed in Italian politics.

If this is correct, then the question to ask is this. Is there a British
conservative with enough ambition, enough popularity, enough profile and enough
media attraction to challenge the existing party system at the head of an
electorally plausible new movement of the angry right during tough times? Is
there, if you like, someone with one foot in the existing system and one foot
outside it who could be both a British Sarah Palin and a British Berlusconi? If
there is, my money is on the Boris Johnson party.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday

AT A TIME OF CUTS, WHY CAN 'T CAMERON BE IS ATTRACTIVE SELF RATHER THAN PUT
STAFF ON THE PUBLIC PAYROLL TO SPIN IS IMAGE?

LENGTH: 1208 words


STEPHEN GLOVER

Ed Miliband missed something of an open goal yesterday in the House of Commons.
Armed with the amazing revelation that David Cameron has put his personal
photographer on the public payroll, Labour's new leader cracked a laborious joke
which the Tory leader easily swatted away.

'Is this what his opposition leadership has been reduced to?' asked a smiling
Prime Minister in rather haughty tones, treating Miliband junior as he might
have spoken to a callow new boy at Eton, or even a young 'oik' who had wandered
in from the local 'comp'.

Mr Miliband would have done better if he had said something about Mr Cameron's
vanity or the importance of leading by example. He might have hit home if he had
employed the word 'spin' or suggested that the Prime Minister was trying to take
control of his own image.

Unfortunately, he let him off the hook. It may, on the face of it, seem a small
matter for Mr Cameron to give his photographer, whose name is Andrew Parsons, a
civil service job at an estimated salary of 635,000 a year. Should we really get
worked up? So many hundreds of millions of pounds are squandered by government
that another small abuse may not seem a very big deal.

And yet, of course, Mr Cameron should be setting an example, and when thousands
of civil servants face the sack it seems insensitive to appoint someone to a
less-than-essential job at public expense. If he really does insist on having a
photographer , Mr Parsons will also take pictures of other members of the
Cabinet, and snapped Nick Clegg this week , let the Tory Party or the Lib Dems
or some generous individual pay for it, not the taxpayer.

Nor is Mr Parsons alone. The Prime Minister has appointed Nicky Woodhouse, who
ran the much-derided WebCameron site before the election, as the Government's
official film-maker, also on a civil servant's salary.

Her classic work showed Mr Cameron as Opposition leader doing the washing up
while coping with noisy off-screen children. Perhaps we will now be treated to
videos of Mr Clegg changing nappies or Vince Cable crocheting, the suggestion
being that these gentlemen are as weighed down by everyday tasks as the rest of
us.

Yet even if Mr Parsons' salary were privately funded, I would be troubled by the
thought of Mr Cameron employing his own snapper. It smacks too much of 'spin'.
It harks back uncomfortably to the days of Tony Blair and his spin doctor
Alastair Campbell, who so assiduously cultivated his master's image.

Didn't the Prime Minister suggest those days were over? He is actually a very
attractive man with a pleasant manner and good voice and plenty of natural
charm. I don't see why he should feel it necessary to manipulate his image. But
I can see that some people, including Tories, may be turned off by the idea that
he is doing so.

Mr Parsons has been burnishing the Cameron brand for some time. It was he who
pictured the Tory leader stroking huskies in the Norwegian snow not long after
Mr Cameron had become the party's leader, thereby advertising himself as a new
type of environmentally conscious Conservative.

Last year, Mr Parsons was on hand to photograph Mr Cameron on Armistice Day at
Westminster Abbey's Field of Remembrance. The Tory leader was pictured bending
over wooden crosses with a harrowed face. I'm afraid veterans were justified in
complaining that this 20-minute photoshoot was heavily staged and partly
calculated to extract maximum political gain.

Shades of Tony Blair at the funeral service of Diana, Princess of Wales, when in
a theatrical and overwrought voice he murdered that beautiful passage from
Corinthians ('For now we see through a glass darkly'), putting himself at the
centre of the commemoration of someone else's life.

A few days before the election, Mr Parsons took a picture of an exhausted
Samantha Cameron, with her head resting on the chest of her husband, whose face
bears a 'man of destiny' look as he gazes out of the window of their campaign
coach.

And the same Mr Parsons was also at work during last month's Tory conference,
when he was invited behind the scenes to take 'natural' photographs of a
supposedly unguarded Mr Cameron, who is shown in one picture bottle-feeding his
daughter Florence hours before his keynote speech, in another relaxing with a
pint of Guinness in his hotel room while his wife looks on.

The point of these pictures, all of which have been published in newspapers, is
to present the Prime Minister on his own terms as enlightened or compassionate
or heroic or attractively normal. They set out to manipulate a response in us.
Maybe they succeed. My own reaction, and I suspect that of many others, is that
I don't like being taken for a fool.

Mr Cameron, of course, spent much of his adult life in PR, and one of his main
advisers, Steve Hilton, is an advertising man obsessed with branding. The two of
them think in terms of producing arresting images that tell the story as they
want it to be told, and it is Mr Parsons' job to supply them. Truth is not the
primary consideration.

Most famously, perhaps, Mr Cameron was photographed riding his bike to the
Commons, an image intended to suggest that he was 'hip', environmentally aware,
and thoroughly modern. Only later did the truth emerge , that he was followed by
his car carrying his clothes, shoes and the leader of the Opposition's blue box.

Incidentally, after 1940, Winston Churchill had the services of an official
photographer called Captain Horton of the War Office, who photographed the Prime
Minister doing such things as trying out a Sten gun, stroking a cat on a British
destroyer, and standing with British generals. The intention was to present
Churchill as an inspirational war leader, but that, of course, was exactly what
he was. These pictures showed him doing his job, and they did not contrive
deceitfully to manipulate people's responses.

David Cameron has been much criticised for breaking promises made before the
election , not to change child benefit, not to raise Vat, to have a referendum
on any new EU treaty, and to repeal the Human Rights Act. These and several
other pledges have been revoked, supposedly because of pressure from the Lib
Dems.

So it seems to me that honesty is likely to be a major theme of Mr Cameron's
prime ministership, and indeed has already become so. It is therefore doubly
important that he is not seen to be cultivating a false image, and doing it
moreover with the help of two people, Andrew Parsons and Nicky Woodhouse, whom
he shamelessly slaps on the public payroll.

Downing Street's strikingly lame defence is say that 'a lot of government
departments have photographers', and because Mr Parsons and Ms Woodhouse will be
'cross-departmental' the Coalition might 'even make savings'. And Nick Clegg
might become a member of UKIP! More to the point, in this age of austerity, why
not get rid of all government photographers?

Here's a radical idea. Let Mr Cameron be his attractive self. Stop the films
about washing up, and the man of destiny shots, and the photographs pretending
he is just a normal bloke, and let him get on with the job of government. David
Cameron as he really is might be more popular, and certainly more trusted, than
the David Cameron who employs two people to manipulate his image.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday

WHAT A SHAME WE CAN'T HAVE A TEA PARTY REVOLUTION

LENGTH: 1346 words


LITTLEJOHN IN AMERICA ON THE LESSONS FOR BRITAIN

Victorious Tea Party candidate Rand Paul put it succinctly. 'People don't
understand why they have to balance their family budget, but Congress doesn't.

'Say that in Washington and they act as if you're crazy. What's crazy is a two
trillion dollar deficit. We have to put our fiscal house in order.'

On Tuesday night, Paul was elected the new Republican Senator for Kentucky with
56 per cent of the vote. It was the first time the 47-year-old optical surgeon
had stood for office, though politics is in his blood.

His father, Ron Paul, has been called the godfather of the Tea Party movement,
having twice run for President on an unashamed small government ticket.

Rand Paul was one of the stand-out success stories of this week's mid-term
elections, which delivered a damning repudiation of Barack Obama's record in the
White House.

Although Republicans failed narrowly to win control of the Senate, they
recaptured Congress with a record number of gains and won several vital swing
states, such as Ohio, which will give them a potent launch pad when the
President comes up for re-election in two years' time.

Across America, Tea Party-backed congressmen and senators have been sent to
Washington with a mandate to reduce the size of government, lower taxes and
eliminate the deficit. Many of them were fresh to the political fray.

This time last year, Ron Johnson was running a plastics business in Oshkosh,
Wisconsin. Frustrated by high taxes and suffocating bureaucracy, he attended a
Tea Party meeting.

In May, he announced his campaign for the Senate and a week later won the
Republican primary. On Tuesday he beat the incumbent Democrat Russ Feingold, a
prominent Washington establishment figure who had held the seat for 18 years and
received the personal endorsement of President Obama.

E xplaining his decision to stand, Johnson said: 'What we don't need is a bunch
of politicians spending public money we don't have, trying to figure out new
ways to tax us and, in their spare time arrogantly attempting to take over the
finest health care system in the world.'

Obamacare, as the President's health reform plans are known, is deeply
unpopular, even though it would extend insurance to 30 million people currently
without cover.

Most Americans are instinctively hostile to government interference. They prefer
to choose their own medical provision, even though health insurance can be
ruinously expensive, and fear that any expansion of state control is a slippery
slope towards what they regard as European-style socialism.

They worry about rationing, with state-mandated 'death panels' deciding who gets
which life-saving drugs. Looking at NICE, our very own NHS 'death panel' which
denies treatment to cancer sufferers on the grounds that it's too costly, who
can blame them?

The maxim: 'That government is best which governs least' is attributed to Thomas
Jefferson. Even if he didn't say it, Americans cleave to the values of their
Founding Fathers , life, liberty and the pursuit of happiness. Republicans will
now be expected to roll back, even repeal, vast chunks of Obama's legislation.
Tuesday night's results put both Democrats and Republicans on notice that the
party in Washington is over.

The Republicans are equally guilty of allowing the fiscal deficit to spiral out
of control. The Tea Party's strategic genius was to fight within the system,
where they can exhert real influence, instead of mounting a counter-productive
third party challenge which would have split the anti-Obama vote.

Britain's political landscape might look different today if UKIP had not gone it
alone, peeling off crucial Conservative votes.

David Cameron would not have found it so easy to cave into the EU budget
increase, scrap his promise to hold a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty and
quietly shelve a pledge to replace the disastrous European 'yuman rites' act
with a British Bill of Rights.

We could do with our own grassroots Tea Party. For a while, during the
parliamentary expenses scandal, it looked as if popular rebellion might happen.
But that turned out to be a five-minute wonder and now it's back to apathy as
usual, with deals being stitched up at Westminster and election promises
conveniently forgotten.

Despite Labour's disastrous record, at least a third of the electorate clung to
nurse for fear of something worse, so infantilised and state-dependent have
millions of our fellow citizens become.

What has been refreshing in America this past week was to see ordinary citizens
on the streets and on the airwaves demanding massive reductions in government
spending and more control over their own lives. Americans don't believe
government has all the answers. It's not what are they going to do about
such-and-such. It's what can we do about it.

All we seem to get in Britain, and on the BBC in particular, is a procession of
entitlement junkies lining up to denounce the 'cuts' and demand ever more
unaffordable State largesse.

America's Tea Party movement is lazily, deliberately, misrepresented as a bunch
of bigots, zealots and racists , the standard Washington insider, mainstream
media slur.

Those Tea Party supporters I've met tend to be decent, concerned citizens,
worried about their families' futures, who believe their voice is ignored in
Washington. They are small business owners, lawyers, housewives, none of whom
fits the received-wisdom stereotype. Of course, all manner of nutters attach
themselves to any cause. We've got more than our own fair share of bigots and
zealots. What could be more bigoted, for instance, than comparing modest
reductions in housing benefits to the Holocaust?

As for the condescending allegations that Tea Party supporters are all 'angry'
and motivated by hatred, how would you characterise the deranged reaction of the
British Left to the Coalition's plans to cut our own crippling budget deficit,
bequeathed by Labour?

Angry doesn't begin to describe it. Foaming-at-the-mouth would be more accurate.

Nor are we in any position to sneer at some Tea Party candidates as crazies,
given that until recently Parliament contained the likes of barking mad Lembit
Opik, famous Cheeky Girl enthusiast and flying saucer obsessive; and George
Galloway, last seen wearing a leotard and pretending to be a cat in the Big
Brother house.

Not to mention Ann Widdecombe, once spoken of as a future Home Secretary, now
reduced to swinging from a trapeze on Strictly Come Dancing, like one of the
cartoon hippos in The Jungle Book.

In any event, the so-called 'crazy' candidates, like the self-styled witch who
campaigned against masturbation, failed to get elected.

S arah Palin, the Tea Party's very own Mad Hatter, couldn't even deliver her
chosen candidate in her home state of Alaska. There won't be a President Palin,
trust me.

Those who were successful are serious, educated, motivated men like Rand Paul
and Ron Johnson, who promise to shake up Washington.

One of the most fascinating races was in the key state of Florida, where the Tea
Party-backed Marco Rubio romped home.

This was a contest which epitomised the very essence of the wider 2010 mid-term
battle. Rubio defeated former Republican governor Charlie Crist, a career
politician rejected for supporting the Obama stimulus and who then flounced off
to run as an independent.

So desperate was the White House to stop Rubio that it tried to persuade the
black Democratic candidate Kendrick Meek to stand down and throw his support
behind Crist. And this in a state Obama carried in 2008.

The reason? Rubio, attractive 39-year-old son of Cuban refugees from Miami,
articulates the low-tax, small government agenda with passion and eloquence. He
polled half the votes in a three-horse race and has everything it takes to
become America's first Hispanic President , not next time, but maybe in 2016.

After all, Obama spent only one term in the Senate before running for President.
No wonder the Democrats are scared. A Tea Party President in the White House is
their worst nightmare.

Shame we'll never have a Tea Party Prime Minister in Downing Street.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Will 'racist' Ukip go for the X factor?;
Mandrake Tim Walker mandrake@telegraph.co.uktelegraph.co.uk/mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; DIARY; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 106 words


The UK Independence Party announces the victor of its leadership contest
tomorrow.

In terms of reflecting the full political spectrum, however, there can be only
one winner among the four candidates: Winston McKenzie.

He was a member of the Tories for six months, the Liberal Democrats for 12
months and Robert Kilroy-Silk's now-defunct Veritas for 18 months.

"Ukip is overwhelmingly white and middle-class," he tells Mandrake. "Perhaps,
little wonder, then, that it is seen as being racist."

In 2007, McKenzie, who is black, auditioned for The XFactor.

"I wasn't selected," he says. "They told me I should be more contemporary and
fashionable."

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

America would be a better military ally than France;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 271 words


SIR - David Cameron is playing a naive and dangerous game by turning to such a
demonstrably self-interested and unreliable ally as France to maintain our
military stature on the cheap (report, November 3).

It suits French ambitions in Europe: making us beholden to them for military
support and giving them an effective veto over our military actions.

This deal goes against the Nato alliance and the "special relationship" - the
very security structures that have protected us and the rest of Europe since the
Second World War.

If the Prime Minister is so desperate to reach a defence-sharing pact with any
nation, may I suggest America might be a more fitting partner than France? Dr
Mark Campbell-Roddis Dunblane, Perthshire SIR - General Sir David Richards's
disclosure that Britain may need to take military action in Yemen (report,
November 2) makes one think how useful it would be to have a large aircraft
carrier off Yemen, preferably with aircraft on board, and ideally flying a Union
Jack, not a tricolour.

David Campbell Bannerman MEP (Ukip) Cambridge SIR - I have always understood
that the real reason for Britain's possession of nuclear weapons was because the
French had them and vice versa. If we are now going to share such weapons with
the French, there seems little point.

In Lyme Regis, we still have cannon mounted on the harbour wall pointing south.
I believe that many other southern coastal towns maintain similar prudent
precautions.

Roger Crabb Lyme Regis, Dorset SIR - What should the SAS and other British
soldiers do when their French commanders order retreat? Reggie Byram
Huddersfield, West Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

THE dependably hilarious UKIP [...]

BYLINE: Keith Aitken

SECTION: EDITORIAL; OPINION, COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 39 words


.THE dependably hilarious UKIP clearly share their understanding of education
with Tim Brooke-Taylor, who was once famously asked on I'm Sorry I Haven't a
Clue to complete the phrase "If you can't beat 'em..." Tim supplied: "...why
teach?"

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday
                                Scottish Edition

Keith Aitken

BYLINE: Keith Aitken

SECTION: COLUMNS; 13

LENGTH: 39  words


THE dependably hilarious UKIP clearly share their understanding of education
with Tim Brooke-Taylor, who was once famously asked on I'm Sorry I Haven't a
Clue to complete the phrase "If you can't beat 'em?" Tim supplied: "?why teach?"

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           November 4, 2010 Thursday

Feature - Who's behind the Tea Party?;
The US extreme right might pretend to be a grass-roots affair, but nothing could
be further from the truth, writes John Green

LENGTH: 1186 words


The US midterm elections were a predictable setback for the Obama
administration, but of greater significance is the rise of the Tea Party.

Even though this supposedly grass-roots organisation has been ridiculed by the
left and a number of its leading lights have been lampooned as clowns, it
deserves to be taken seriously.

We might be in a completely different historical context, but the Tea Party's
rise - not dissimilar to that of its less dangerous Ukip counterpart in Britain
- has resonance with the rise of Hitler and the fascists in Germany.

Hitler and his nutters were also seen as extremist outsiders to begin with, but
with a deepening economic crisis and a bankrupt political system the ruling
elite soon turned to the nazis as saviours.

Today we are in a similar situation. The world capitalist economy is in total
disarray and the future is highly uncertain.

The general public has lost faith in traditional parties. However, rather than
directing their ire at the capitalist system itself, the business-owned media
has cleverly manipulated opinion and diverted blame to individuals and
governments.

So we blame Gordon Brown or Barack Obama and "big government." This lets the
real culprits - the banks and multinational conglomerates - off the hook.

In the US, Fox News's extremist anchorman Glenn Beck recently made the same
comparison, saying that the current situation is similar to that of the post-WWI
German Weimar republic.

Beck said he had spoken with a White House contact of his, who he called his
"Deep Throat" - "a guy who is in all the meetings."

Beck said: "When he saw the debt and the wall that was coming our way," this man
had told him: "Glenn, everybody I know is reading about the Weimar republic.

"The money that is being pumped in is staggering and I don't know how we'll ever
pull that money back. We're all reading about the Weimar republic."

The Tea Party movement takes its name from the American colonists who revolted
in a tax dispute with Britain in 1773 and emptied barrels of tea from British
ships into Boston harbour rather than pay taxes on it. This is a very populist
image, harking back to US founding history.

But the modern Tea Party is far removed from the popular, grass-roots uprising
that is portrayed by the media. It is a movement motivated by hate, fear and
prejudice. Its racist and vitriolic hatred of a black president also underpins
those feelings.

US journalist Jane Mayer and others report that the money to support
"grass-roots" Tea Party candidates comes through such conservative organisations
as Americans for Prosperity and FreedomWorks.

FreedomWorks is a right-wing group led by former house Republican leader Richard
Armey. Armey's group has its own influential network and has supported Tea Party
candidates. FreedomWorks is a top-down organisation, based in Washington -
hardly grass roots.

The Christian Science Monitor says: "The Tea Party movement may have all the
appearance of being genuinely grass roots, but just beneath the surface are
professional fund-raisers, foundations and political action committees - some of
which have been around for years - pushing a conservative-libertarian agenda."

In a recent investigative report in the New Yorker magazine, Mayer details the
links between billionaire industrialists David and Charles Koch and the Tea
Party movement.

"By giving money to 'educate,' fund, and organise Tea Party protesters, they
have helped turn their private agenda into a mass movement.

"Bruce Bartlett, a conservative economist and a historian, who once worked at
the National Centre for Policy Analysis, a Dallas-based think tank that the
Kochs fund, said: 'The problem with the whole libertarian movement is that it's
been all chiefs and no Indians. There haven't been any actual people, like
voters, who (care) about it. So the problem for the Kochs has been trying to
create a movement.'

"With the emergence of the Tea Party, he said: 'Everyone suddenly sees that for
the first time there are Indians out there - people who can provide real
ideological power.' The Kochs, he said, are 'trying to shape and control and
channel the populist uprising into their own policies'."

Another major source of Tea Party funding is the Tea Party Express, which poured
hundreds of thousands of dollars into the successful GOP primary Senate
campaigns of Christine O'Donnell in Delaware and Joe Miller in Alaska.

The Tea Party Express, a group formed by a long-time California Republican
consultant, has raised more than $5 million and financed about $2m in
advertising to help candidates.

The organisation is an offshoot of a political action committee created to
support John McCain's Republican presidential campaign in 2008.

The Tea Party Express is run by Sal Russo, a Republican fundraiser and PR guru
who began his career working for Ronald Reagan.

Russo is also the chief strategist for Our Country Deserves Better, a political
action committee formed to defeat Obama in the 2008 presidential election.

"As a pivotal player in the 'Tea Party' movement, Russo has helped drive its
cause by raising millions of dollars and crafting caustic ads about its
opponents," reports the Los Angeles Times.

"There's no question that Tea Party Express, the political action committee
Russo runs out of his Sacramento-based firm, is the advertising muscle behind
the Tea Party insurgency ... As the only Tea Party group making significant
advertising buys, Tea Party Express has become one of the most potent forces in
the protest movement."

Our Country Deserves Better launched the first Tea Party Express bus tour last
year, and raised and spent just over $1m in the 2008 campaign year.

So far in 2010, it's raised and spent more than $5m.

Large chunks of that went to the GOP primary campaigns of Tea Party favourites
O'Donnell ($237,000) and Miller (nearly $600,000).

Much political funding in the US comes from anonymous donors or is channelled
through innocuous-sounding organisations.

The problem for those trying to ferret out where the money comes from - and for
Obama and Democrats as they seek to toughen campaign finance reporting in the
wake of the Citizens United court decision - is that it's getting harder to do
so.

"Federal campaign spending by groups other than candidates and parties in this
election cycle has far outpaced similar spending from the last midterm election
and could rival the 2008 presidential campaign," the New York Times reports.

"But with recent decisions by the Supreme Court and the federal elections
commission, it has become harder to know whose dollars they are."

The reason the Tea Party has been even more successful in the US than Ukip in
Britain is that the economic crisis is much deeper in the US and the election of
a progressive black president has put frighteners on the business elite and
traditionalists of the population.

This elite has found it quite easy to tap into the fears and prejudices of
ordinary US citizens, particularly the disaffected, poor working-class and small
business people.

The parallels with pre-Hitler Germany are alarming.

- For more of John Green's writing, visit www.mappingutopia.co.uk.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Alarm over UK-French treaty;
PM defends pact merging our military

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 642 words


DAVID Cameron yesterday defended moves to bind British and French defence forces
ever closer together as a "big, bold and radical" new chapter in mutual
relations.

Signing two treaties and exchanging warm handshakes with French President
Nicolas Sarkozy, the Prime Minister said: "This is the start of something new,
not an end in itself."

He insisted Britain's national interest was served by the moves which, as the
Daily Express revealed yesterday, include allowing French military chiefs to
take command of British troops including the elite SAS in a new joint rapid
reaction force.

There will also be sharing of aircraft carriers when one country's ships are out
of action in refit, joint nuclear warhead safety testing in France, and
cooperation on weapons research, unmanned drones and cyber warfare. President
Sarkozy, who later toasted the deal at a Downing Street lunch, said it would
create "a new interdependency" between the two nations. He refused to promise
France would help Britain in a crisis such as an Argentine invasion of the
Falklands - although he said it was impossible to imagine his country "simply
sitting there, its arms crossed" if "my British friends" faced a major problem.
But the new pacts sparked widespread alarm.

Tory Bernard Jenkin said he "thoroughly approved" of discussing defence
cooperation with France but not shared strategy.

"We need to recognise that France has never and is never likely to share the
same strategic priorities assame strategic priorities as the UK. There is a long
trackrecord of duplicity on the French part," said Mr Jenkin.

"When it comes to dealing with allies, we should never be under any illusion.
The French act in what they see as their strategic interests."

He also voiced fears - denied by the Government - that the US might sever
intelligence cooperation with the UK if its secrets were being shared with
Paris.

In the Commons, Tory Sir Peter Tapsell joked: "As I am married to a Frenchwoman,
I have some experience of the unpredictability of Anglo-French relations." He
recalled that in the run-up to the Iraq war "George Bush and Tony Blair were
hell-bent on invading Iraq but President Chirac took a different view. If in
future there are divergencies in military or foreign policy matters, who gets
the helicopters and the fighters onto the aircraft carrier?" Tory Defence
Secretary Liam Fox, who earlier insisted the deal made "perfect sense", said
neither country's independence would be undermined.

Labour shadow defence secretary Jim Murphy welcomed the improved cooperation but
warned: "There is no guarantee we will find common cause in all circumstances in
the next 50 years."

Former Labour defence minister Kevan Jones said: "If we had done this in
government we would have been completely pilloried by the Conservative Party,
and quite rightly."

Safer

Nigel Farage of anti-Brussels party UKIP said the deal was "utter madness." He
added: "British and French interests and foreign policies do not coincide.

"When a conflict of interest arises between Britain and France is it wise to
have French command of the SAS? The answer is clearly no.

"David Cameron has obviously forgotten that during the Falklands conflict,
France was supplying Exocet missiles to Argentina which sunk British ships."

The pacts were signed in London at the annual Anglo-French summit where Mr
Cameron told a news conference: "Today we open a new chapter in a long history
of cooperation on defence and security between Britain and France. "The result
will make our citizens safer, more secure and better protected in the global age
of uncertainty in which we now live."

He insisted it was not about weakening British sovereignty. President Sarkozy
said greater defence cooperation between the EU's major military powers was "to
the greater benefit of Europe".

OPINION: PAGE 12 VIVE LA DIFFERENCE: PAGES 36&37

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron greets French President Nicolas Sarkozy in London
yesterday
The Prime Minister signs the new defence agreement at the summit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Alarm over UK-French treaty

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 634  words


PM defends pact merging our military

DAVID Cameron yesterday defended moves to bind British and French defence forces
ever closer together as a "big, bold and radical" new chapter in mutual
relations.

Signing two treaties and exchanging warm handshakes with French President
Nicolas Sarkozy, the Prime Minister said: "This is the start of something new,
not an end in itself."

He insisted Britain's national interest was served by the moves which, as the
Daily Express revealed yesterday, include allowing French military chiefs to
take command of British troops including the elite SAS in a new joint rapid
reaction force.

There will also be sharing of aircraft carriers when one country's ships are out
of action in refit, joint nuclear warhead safety testing in France, and
cooperation on weapons research, unmanned drones and cyber warfare.

President Sarkozy, who later toasted the deal at a Downing Street lunch, said it
would create "a new interdependency" between the two nations.

He refused to promise France would help Britain in a crisis such as an Argentine
invasion of the Falklands - although he said it was impossible to imagine his
country "simply sitting there, its arms crossed" if "my British friends" faced a
major problem. But the new pacts sparked widespread alarm.

Tory Bernard Jenkin said he "thoroughly approved" of discussing defence
cooperation with France but not shared strategy.

"We need to recognise that France has never and is never likely to share the
same strategic priorities as the UK. There is a long trackrecord of duplicity on
the French part, " said Mr Jenkin.

"When it comes to dealing with allies, we should never be under any illusion.
The French act in what they see as their strategic interests."

He also voiced fears - denied by the Government - that the US might sever
intelligence cooperation with the UK if its secrets were being shared with
Paris.

In the Commons, Tory Sir Peter Tapsell joked: "As I am married to a Frenchwoman,
I have some experience of the unpredictability of Anglo-French relations."

He recalled that in the run-up to the Iraq war "George Bush and Tony Blair were
hell-bent on invading Iraq but President Chirac took a different view. If in
future there are divergencies in military or foreign policy matters, who gets
the helicopters and the fighters onto the aircraft carrier?"

Tory Defence Secretary Liam Fox, who earlier insisted the deal made "perfect
sense", said neither country's independence would be undermined.

Labour shadow defence secretary Jim Murphy welcomed the improved cooperation but
warned: "There is no guarantee we will find common cause in all circumstances in
the next 50 years."

Former Labour defence minister Kevan Jones said: "If we had done this in
government we would have been completely pilloried by the Conservative Party,
and quite rightly."

Nigel Farage of anti-Brussels party UKIP said the deal was "utter madness." He
added: "British and French interests and foreign policies do not coincide.

"When a conflict of interest arises between Britain and France is it wise to
have French command of the SAS? The answer is clearly no.

"David Cameron has obviously forgotten that during the Falklands conflict,
France was supplying Exocet missiles to Argentina which sunk British ships."

The pacts were signed in London at the annual Anglo-French summit where Mr
Cameron told a news conference: "Today we open a new chapter in a long history o
f cooperation on defence and security between Britain and France.

"The result will make our citizens safer, more secure and better protected in
the global age of uncertainty in which we now live."

He insisted it was not about weakening British sovereignty.

President Sarkozy said greater defence cooperation between the EU's major
military powers was "to the greater benefit o f Europe".

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: David Cameron greets French President Nicolas Sarkozy in London
yesterday
The Prime Minister signs the new defence agreement at the summit

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday

Russians complain to PCC over 'propaganda article' in The Independent

BYLINE: Roy Greensladeguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 632 words

ABSTRACT

33 Russian politicians and business people seek to link Indy's story on St
Petersburg's governor to the paper's owner, Alexander Lebedev

FULL TEXT

A group of Russian politicians, business owners and trade unionists have made a
formal complaint to the Press Complaints Commission about an article in The
Independent.

The collective complaint, signed by 33 individuals led by a Russian historian
exiled in Britain, Pavel Stroilov, concerns a piece published in September about
the governor of St Petersburg, Valentina Matviyenko, headlined .

They believe the "extremely flattering" article is "propaganda" that contains
major inaccuracies, such as overstating Matviyenko's popularity and wrongly
suggesting she was democratically elected.

They further complain that critics of the article, written by the Indy's
respected foreign correspondent, Mary Dejevsky, were not given a fair
opportunity to reply.

The complaint, which contains 79 clauses and runs to some 29 pages in total, is
clearly politically motivated and is also aimed at attempting to embarrass the
owners of The Independent, Alexander Lebedev and his son, Evgeny.

It contains a letter sent to the Indy by one of the complainants, David Kudykov,
who is president of a body called Authors and Publicists International
Association, in which he wrote:

"The sale of The Independent to a KGB veteran, Alexander Lebedev, sparked fears
that your paper would soon start publishing Russian-style propaganda articles."

Another complainant, Gerard Batten, a UKIP MEP, wrote to the PCC:

"There is a widespread concern among my constituents that, as a KGB veteran, Mr
Lebedev is now in a position to abuse his ownership of British media for the
purposes of pro-Russian propaganda and against our national interest.

The misleading article hailing an unelected apparatchik as 'Russian Thatcher'
is, in my view, quite illustrative of this danger."

He goes on to write of "a Russification (or, rather, Sovietisation) of British
media, with the proprietors feeling free to substitute objective coverage with
crude propaganda."

Underlying these allegations is the claim that Lebedev has "common business
interests" with Matviyenko.

There appears to be a further suggestion that Lebedev is backing the
controversial building of tower in St Petersburg by the Russian gas giant,
Gazprom. This has been opposed by people worried about its effect on the city's
historic skyline.

Reading between the lines, there is also an innuendo about Lebedev sharing
common cause with Russia's prime minister, Vladimir Putin, who supports
Matviyenko.

Whether or not the specifics of complaint itself are valid (and it certainly
contains factual inaccuracies), is for the PCC to decide. But I don't think the
link between Lebedev's ownership of the paper and the publication of the article
stands up.

I understand that Evgeny Lebedev appeared so baffled by its appearance that he
asked The Independent's editor, Simon Kelner, to explain its provenance.

Dejevsky, aware by that time of the heavy weight of criticism of her piece in
the Russian blogosphere, sent Kelner a lengthy and detailed reply (subsequently
passed on to Lebedev).

In it, she states that no one commissioned or "encouraged" her to write the
article, which was the result of an interview with Matviyenko. She wrote: "I
proposed it to The Independent's foreign desk. Neither the governor, nor the
paper's owner, nor indeed the paper's editor would have known about it until it
appeared in the paper."

Yesterday's news of  certainly suggests that he has no ties, political or
otherwise, with Putin in particular, or the Kremlin.

See my views on that incident .

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Only the finest furnishings for the new breed of 'ambassadors';
EXTERNAL ACTION SERVICE Spending the EU way: Number 2

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 281 words


Last week David Cameron claimed victory in his battle to curb EU spending. With
negotiations over a rise to the £108 billion budget now under way, David Charter
looks at where the money goes While the Foreign Office reels from a 24 per cent
budget cut, a tender issued by the EU to equip its "ambassadors" with
"top-of-therange furniture" shows the attitude in Brussels to the age of
austerity.

Furniture companies are being invited to bid for contracts worth £7 million to
upgrade the residences of EU officials working for the new European External
Action Service being set up under Baroness Ashton of Upholland, Britain's
European Commissioner, to represent the EU overseas. It will take charge of the
European Commission's 137 offices on December 1, with an operating budget of
about £400 million.

As the tender document for high-class sofas and drinks cabinets seen by The
Times shows, EU heads of delegation are now routinely referred to as
"ambassadors" as if they represent a nation state. "The specific aim of this
contract is to purchase top-of-the-range furniture for the official
representation part of the residence of the ambassador/ head of delegation," the
document, published on the official tenders website of the EU, stated.

Lady Ashton will be in charge of 5,790 staff, from the 132 officials in Turkey
to the six stationed in the South Pacific island state of Vanuatu (population
243,000).

"British embassies are being closed and their funding cut around the world, with
hardly a Ferrero Rocher to share between them, but the EU splashes out on
polished veneer sideboards and plush armchairs," said Marta Andreasen, a UKIP
MEP on the European Parliament's budget committee.

LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 123 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday

DIARY

LENGTH: 1113 words


RICHARD KAY

IS NIGELLA A DOMESTIC HYPOCRITE?

When art guru Charles Saatchi was questioned by police for losing his temper
over his neighbours' building works, only the most hard-hearted could fail to
feel sympathy for the multi-millionaire and his voluptuous wife, Nigella Lawson.

There was even quiet admiration for Saatchi's chutzpah in employing his own
workmen to take down the ugly scaffolding surrounding his 636million apartment
in Belgravia, even if he did cause damage in the process.

But now I learn a similar situation has emerged just a mile away involving the
house the couple intend to move to , and, this time, Saatchi is the villain, not
the victim.

To the despair of his future neighbours, he and Nigella, 50, have been employing
teams of builders to renovate their double-fronted house just off the King's
Road in West London. 'It's been absolutely horrendous,' says a long-suffering
resident. 'We've complained to him and the builders, and were assured it would
all be finally over this month. Now we're told it won't be finished at least
until Christmas. Everyone is thoroughly fed up.

'We've lost count of the number of times the road has been closed because of
enormous cranes. They even brought a crane to lift in 30ft-long planks of wood
through the windows.

'When we asked what they were for, the builders said they were floorboards that
had to be extra-long because Mr Saatchi doesn't like to see joins in his floor.'

Locals, who include novelist Joanna Trollope, say the builders moved in three
years ago, when developers bought the property, which was formerly the Adel
Rootstein mannequin showroom.

Everything except the front facade was demolished and then rebuilt, creating an
elegant mansion with seven bedrooms, a gym and a swimming pool in the basement.

Saatchi, 67, bought the property for 612.3million in February, and builders
reappeared as he spent yet more millions on the place.

Says songwriter Ted Reynell, who lives on the street: 'Considering what a fuss
Saatchi made when he was suffering building works, I find the whole thing hugely
ironic. Talk about pot calling the kettle black.

'The fact is, the work on their new home in Chelsea has reduced what was once a
pleasant, quiet street into a chaotic building site.

'We all look forward to some compensatory home cooking from Nigella at the house
warming.'

LUCKY ESCAPE FRO GREEN'S YACHT

It wasn't quite as bad as our nuclear sub running aground, though it could have
given Sir Philip Green cause for nautical concern.

An unexpected gale in Monaco harbour over the weekend almost resulted in
Cunard's new 6400million liner, the Queen Elizabeth, hitting Green's gin palace,
Lionheart.

According to those on board, winds tore the 16-deck, 964.5ft-long ship away from
two of her mooring lines. Skipper Christopher Wells announced he was having to
use the engines to hold the ship in position and that no one could go ashore.

Says one passenger: 'Philip Green's yacht was moored just yards away. If the
liner had broken free, Lionheart and other yachts could have been written off.'

Captain Wells reported an hour later that new lines had been fixed and the Queen
Elizabeth was 'fairly secure'. She left for her next destination six hours late
because of the trouble.

The cruise ship dwarfs retail magnate Green's yacht, but Sir Philip is playing
down the incident. 'Nothing happened,' he tells me from Monte Carlo. 'Yes, it's
been raining for 25 hours here, but Lionheart was on the other side of the port
50 yards away.'

So that's all right then.

Writer and cabaret singer Nesta Wyn Ellis has fallen out with the subject of her
latest biography , the Marquess of Bath.

Neither eccentric Bath nor any of his 75 wifelets came to Nesta's book launch
last week at The Kennington Bookshop, South London.

Explains Nesta, who also wrote a 1991 biography of former prime minister John
Major: 'I specifically didn't invite his girlfriends in case there was a
punch-up between them.'

What of the Loins Of Longleat himself? 'I gave Alexander a copy of the book and
he said he didn't like any of it,' says Nesta.

'I told him: "These are accurate transcripts of your own words."

'That was two years ago , I haven't spoken to him since.'

NO LONGER A FREE AGENT

At long last, showbiz impresario Jonathan Shalit has completed his tortoise-like
crawl to the altar , or, in his case, the chuppa.

Top-hatted Shalit, 48 , who acts as agent for Myleene Klass and Lorraine Kelly ,
yesterday married clothes designer Katrina Sedley under a traditional wedding
canopy at a West London synagogue in front of 70 guests.

His new stepdaughters , Jessica, 21, and Sofia, 23 , were maids-of-honour.

The couple became engaged seven months ago, after Shalit proposed on bended knee
to twice-married Katrina, 49, on Mother's Day at the Ivy.

Only family and close pals were present at their nuptials, but Shalit is
organising a big showbiz bash next week at the Victoria & Albert Museum.

Oy vey!

It looked like the on-off relationship between Prince Harry and Chelsy Davy was
over for good when the blonde beauty announced in June she was moving back to
South Africa. Yet it seems she has not severed all ties with her former beau.

Last week, Harry's best friend, Tom Inskip, and his girlfriend, Lara
Hughes-Young, flew out to stay with Chelsy in Cape Town. Although Harry wasn't
invited, friends believe Tom will try to persuade Chelsy to give him another
chance.

'Harry would do anything to have her back,' says a friend. 'He has put on an act
that he is enjoying being single, but secretly he is miserable.' Fingers crossed
for the lovelorn Prince that his royal emissary meets with success.

If she gets fed up with eBay, Cherie Blair could try Sunbury Antiques Market at
Kempton Park. Last week, 11 limos arrived, and the group that emerged bought so
much that the market provided them with a large van to take it all away. The
market's owner, Edward Cruttenden, tells me: 'We've had Stella McCartney and
Keira Knightley here. This time, it was the king of Thailand's son.' So Cherie
would fit in nicely.

PS

AS IF licking 2,000 stamps on invitations for the charity Canine Partners wasn't
enough to send Lord Pearson of Rannoch's wife, Caroline, barking mad, she has
been further infuriated to discover that most of her missives have failed to
reach their destination.

According to the Ukip leader's wife , who is an ambassador for the good cause ,
more than 1,000 invitations for the 675-a-head Dogs, Rocks & Frocks fashion show
in London this month have been lost in the post.

'I do feel incredibly disheartened,' says Caroline. 'My husband blames the
European Union for passing laws that make the postal service less efficient.'

Well, he would, wouldn't he ...

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Fraud costs Brussels £1.2bn

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 224 words


Imaginary cows and nonexistent lemon groves are among the fraudulent claims for
European Union funding that have cost taxpayers £1.2billion in the past year, a
report shows.

The number of "irregular payments" doubled last year and are now costing
taxpayers £3.3million a day.

According to the European Commission's Fight Against Fraud report,
irregularities and fraud in the Common Agricultural Policy, which accounts for
half the EU budget, cost £108.5million, up 23 per cent.

However, the worst area for fraud was the "cohesion policy", where funds go to
the poorest regions and which takes up more than a third of the budget.

Suspected fraud and irregularities here cost £1.06billion last year, an increase
of 109 per cent on the previous year. About two thirds of alleged EU fraud
concerns six countries: Bulgaria, Romania, Greece, Italy, Poland and Spain.

Fraudulent claims include a lemon and orange grove that did not exist on the
Italian island of Sicily, and "non-existent" cattle in Slovenia.

UK Independence Party MEP Marta Andreasen said: "Why does the EU allow this
situation to continue? Simple: the EU uses funding from the budget to buy
support for the EU project."

A European Commission spokesman said: "We take the issue of fraud very seriously
and have made considerable efforts to improve the system for finding and dealing
with it."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 1, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ashton envoys 'playing at James Bond' in £32m of bullet-proof limos

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 456 words


BARONESS Ashton's European diplomatic corps has been accused of "vanity" over
plans to spend £32.8million on bullet-proof limousines for its 7,000 staff.

Some will be used by those sent overseas, whose postings will include Barbados
and even the tiny Pacific island of Vanuatu. In many of the capitals they will
serve there is little or no terrorist threat. The money will provide 150
vehicles for four years, of which 30 will go to missions around the world.

The European External Action Service (EEAS) will have a budget of £8billion.

New details showed that as part of a network of 137 EU embassies, it will send
46 officials to Barbados, 57 to Vietnam and 95 to Ukraine. Vanuatu, with a
population of 230,000, will have six diplomats.

Formally launched on Dec 1 and including the EU's large aid and development
budgets, it will dwarf Britain's Foreign Office, which employs 4,863 diplomats.

Some British embassies and consulates in smaller countries may close and their
duties be passed to EU embassies.

Some EU missions will be posted where there are already British diplomats.

The EU will have nine more diplomats than the British embassy in Bridgetown,
Barbados, and 13 more in the Dominican Republic.

Burkina Faso will have 59 European officials, Costa Rica 21, Egypt 90, Vietnam
57, East Timor 20, Mauritius 39, and Namibia 26.

Stephen Booth, of the Open Europe think tank, said: "At a time of widespread
austerity, taxpayers shouldn't be asked to pay for the EU's pretensions."

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP, said: "The vanity of the EEAS knows no limits. They
are playing at being James Bond with these armoured limos. British embassies are
closed and downgraded, and our international voice is being drowned out by
career Eurocrats in comfort postings." The EEAS will also have 500 staff at a
headquarters in Brussels, rented for £10.5million a year, and at international
organisations in Paris, Vienna, Rome and Strasbourg.

More than 100 will be better paid than William Hague, the Foreign Secretary, who
earns £134,565 a year.

The latest details come as David Cameron, the Prime Minister, battles to keep
the EU budget rise to 2.9 per cent for 2011, rather than six per cent as
proposed. Even that will cost the Treasury an extra £430 million.

As EU High Representative for Foreign Affairs and Security, Lady Ashton is the
best paid female politician in the West earning £230,702 a year.

The EEAS was created under the Lisbon Treaty. Governments were promised it would
be "budget neutral" but it has overspent by £29 million.

On the decision to order the limousines, an EEAS spokesman said: "Baroness
Ashton believes it is impossible to put a figure on safety and we will
prioritise these vehicles to areas where we feel there is a necessity."

LOAD-DATE: November 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 123 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      November 1, 2010 Monday 3:39 PM GMT

Tory voters want out of the suicide pact that is the EU

BYLINE: By Ed West

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 453 words


According to a new poll by ConservativeHome, 49 per cent of Tory party members
want Britain to leave the EU while another 42 per cent wish the Government to
take powers back. Five per cent said "we should stay in the EU but leave the
relationship as it is", while 4 per cent said "we should be more enthusiastic EU
members".

It shows how Eurosceptic Tory members are, and yet even this was nothing like as
decisive as the YouGov survey from September, which showed a 47-33 per cent
majority of all voters in favour of withdrawal. More significant was the fact
that Labour supporters were considerably more divided over the issue than
Tories, who favoured leaving by 63-24 per cent.

Europe has been deliberately downplayed by politicians over the past 20 years
because one party was divided over the issue, and another suspected their policy
was unpopular with core voters. As one UKIP-supporting blog put it, the Tory
party is not split down the middle but "split across the middle", with
enthusiasm for the EU confined to the leadership.

But it seems to me, and I admit this is anecdotal, that the Eurosceptics have
won the debate in the party; only one in 25 Tories are full-on EU supporters,
while 42 per cent are half-way to accepting the inevitable that Brussels will
not give powers back.

Europe is no longer a dangerous subject for the Tories to discuss, becausethe
practical arguments for EU membership have rather faded. The EU has not proven
to be an economic boon, anymore than a free trade area might be. It has not
passed more just laws than our own Parliament. It has not spent our money more
wisely, as was recently disclosed by the 7.4 billion it wasted on attempts to
improve Sicily's infrastructure, much of which has mysteriously gone missing (I
wonder which local organisation has benefited from our largess?). It has not, as
some Federasts somehow believed, turned us into a caf society of moderate
drinkers who can quote French poetry at will. There is much about French, German
and Italian society and culture I love and would like to imitate, but I can
learn from my neighbours without moving in with them and opening a joint bank
account.

The only argument left for EU membership is the ideological one, of being
opposed to the nation-state and of nationalism for its own sake. This is the
spiritual, rather than the practical, foundation of the European project, and it
has a reasonable large following among middle-class Labour voters,who view
supporters of the nation-stateas "extremists". It has very little following
among Tory voters; I wonder how long before the leadership openly accepts the
inevitable and decides it no longer wants Britain to be part of the biggest
suicide pact in history.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
