
                               1 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday

Feature - More hate-filled by the day ..;
Jim Jepps on how recent Tory campaigning shows a return to form for the 'nasty
party'

BYLINE: Jim Jepps

LENGTH: 982 words


It appears there's an election on. It's easy to tell because the Tories have
started getting back to their ABCs, like attacking immigrants. After spending
all that time and money trying to convince us that they had changed, that they
were modern, that they were no longer the nasty party, David Cameron has
suddenly remembered that his supporters actually are nasty little racists.

In a time when a Tory victory is looking far less assured, Cameron thinks he
needs to move to shore up his core vote against the likes of UKIP. That means
reaching for the dog whistles.

Once upon a time Cameron bent over backwards to shift the public image of his
party towards a new fluffy, friendly style.

He even changed the logo to a piece of broccoli - what more could we ask of him?

However, the general election campaign is beginning to look more and more like
it will mirror the despicable 2005 "Are you thinking what we're thinking ... "
campaign by the day.

At the weekend Cameron announced a flagship policy that if he were elected prime
minister he would slash net immigration.

The Tories have backed up this launch with a national roll-out of posters
attacking Gordon Brown personally for letting in too many immigrants.

Cameron plans to cut immigration by imposing a strict "cap" on numbers, a policy
as reprehensible as it is unworkable.

Of course Cameron can say he is in favour of drastically reducing net
immigration but he happens to be pushing buttons that he has little control
over.

Most British immigration is from the EU and there is no mechanism to restrict
this.

More than that, when it comes to Tory immigration policy, as with all their
other policies, money will trump any other consideration.

Left-of-centre think tank the Institute for Public Policy Research asked: "Would
the government be happy to tell KPMG that it could not bring over an analyst
from its New York office? Or to tell Arsenal that it could not sign a promising
young player from Cote d'Ivoire?"

The answer is, of course, no.

Immigration controls are about keeping the poor out. If you have wealth behind
you, your free passage will always be assured.

The flip side of this is that immigration laws are frequently used against union
organisation.

While we allow these laws to force part of the workforce to live in fear of
being deported, we hand the employers a union-busting tool on a plate.

While we have a situation where there are tight restrictions on the movement of
labour while capital is free to travel as it pleases, those who exploit us are
being dealt all the trump cards.

Our solidarity, sympathy and friendship has to be with those who work alongside
us no matter where they are from - because the alternative is to allow their
presence to divide us.

For the left we have to have the basic understanding that the lines on a map are
not some objective standard of worth and if you were born on one side of an
abstraction your rights as a citizen should not be quite different from if you
come from the other side of that conceptual marker.

The right is quite wrong to cite pressure on our public services as a reason to
curtail immigration. Without migrant workers the NHS, for example, would
collapse.

Whether it's cleaners, nurses, doctors or specialists the health service is
propped up at every level by workers who have come from overseas.

Far from being a burden on public services, immigrants are responsible for
keeping them functioning, yet we treat them like we are doing them a favour.

It is not just the Tories, though would that it were. Cameron's announcement
came just a day after Defence Minister Kevan Jones attacked the idea that
Gurkhas should be allowed to settle in Britain.

He explicitly denounced Joanna Lumley, who has been a high-profile campaigner in
favour of Gurkhas' rights, saying that she was guilty of "raising expectations"
and that she should be making it clear that Gurkhas have no rights.

Amid allegations that Gurkhas bound for Britain were being forced to pay
hundreds of pounds in legal advice in Nepal, Jones said of Lumley: "Her deathly
silence, frankly, irritates me."

It's interesting that the Labour minister is more irritated by someone who
campaigns for extending people's rights than he is by the laws of his own
government that perpetuate the injustice in the first place.

In particular Labour's record on asylum has been a disgrace. There was a grim
reminder of this in Glasgow two weeks ago when a family whose application had
been turned down committed suicide together.

The three Russians jumped from a tower block on the day they were to be evicted
from the hostel in which they were staying, having lost their appeal to stay in
Britain.

These deaths are just the most visible reminder of the horrors that our
government inflicts upon people whom it has decided cannot have even the basic
rights that we regard as normal.

Recent events in Yarl's Wood, with protests and hunger strikes, show that people
will stand up for their rights. But without our support they are left in a very
vulnerable position.

Locking up children is an abomination at the best of times, but locking them up
just because they are foreign is a disgrace that no Labour government should
ever be associated with.

Yet this is not just commonplace, the government takes pride in its harsh
attitude towards those from other countries.

If the political parties hope to fight this election on the idea of "fairness"
then let them start with the way we treat guests to this country.

Imprisoning those fleeing torture, impoverishing those seeking shelter and
treating as a "problem" those who have come here to make a contribution to
society is not fair.

It should not be a criminal offence to have the wrong colour passport.

It should be regarded as a universal human right to travel from one place to
another freely without one state or another treating you with contempt because
you don't seem to know your place.

LOAD-DATE: March 30, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 30, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Budget in 7% poll lift for Blues

BYLINE: TOM NEWTON DUNN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 177 words


VOTERS are rejecting Labour's plans for the economy - as the Tories' lead last
night widened to SEVEN points.

A YouGov poll for The Sun put David Cameron's party on 39 per cent against
Gordon Brown's on just 32 per cent.

That is up three points since last Wednesday, when Labour delivered its Budget.

Damningly, it also emerged most Brits do not trust the Government to tackle
Britain's crippling £900billion national debt. Only 43 per cent of the 922
quizzed said Labour would meet their borrowing targets. Fiftyeight per cent say
the Tories WOULD hit the targets.

But Britain was divided down the middle last night on Shadow Chancellor George
Osborne's plans to block Labour's National Insurance rise. While 43 per cent are
in favour of the move, another 43 per cent are against. The other 14 per cent do
not know.

The Lib Dems' support has stayed the same on 18 per cent.

Support for minority parties like UKIP and the BNP is down one point to 11 per
cent.

EVERY week day, our poll brings you the UK's verdict on hot topics and reveals
who voters were backing yesterday.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 30, 2010 Tuesday 5:49 PM GMT

Still no sign of a working majority for Cameron. Time is running out

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1457 words


The polls should be a continuing worry to David Cameron. Although the election
is far from decided, there is no sign of the 10 per cent plus that he needs to
gain a working majority. The commentators are now talking about a repeat of
1992, when John Major'sgovernment snatched an unlikely victory from Neil
Kinnock.

That comparison is entirely false.The Major governmenthad a credible record in
its first two years and the benefit of theThatcherite legacy of the previous
eleven.There was no sense of finacial crisis. On the other hand Neil Kinnock was
seen as a vacuous, loud-mouthed nobody, even by many Labour supporters. Not even
Cameron's detractors would put him in the same category as the geat windbag. As
for Brown, who would rate his record above that of Major's?

The electorate made the right decision to keep Kinnock out and Major in.Of
course,it might have been thata Kinnockgovernment would have kept Labour out for
the next 20 years, but we can never be sure of that.What is absolutely sure is
that it was above all the electorate's mistrust of the Leader of the Opposition
which swung the result back to the government of the day.They simply held on to
the hand of nurse for fear of finding something worse. Gordon Brown is hoping to
pull off the same trick.

Having been led up the garden path on to the messy bog of the middle ground by
Michael Ashcroft's strategy for the critical seats, David Cameron now has to put
some greater distance between himself and the Prime Minister.If he does not, the
voters will reluctantly return the more experienced, battle-hardened man to
implement consensus policies.The comparisons between the merits of the wives of
the Party leaders are not merely irrelevant. They are turning voters away from
the polling booths.If there are not greater differences betweenthe two men and
their parties than that, the electors will leave well (or ill) alone and leave
Brown in office.

David Cameron has the brains to turn the tables and come back to win.But he has
to inspire the electors to believe he would make a difference not over the
trivialities of dress senseor political asylum for African homosexuals, but the
management of the debtand spending crisis which threatens to overwhelm the
country, our relationship with the EU, the crisis of unintegrated foreign
communities, and the regulatory nightmares builton human rights and health
safety legislation implemented by politically correct officials. There is
material galore tobring voters out, but it has to be used with courage and
flair.There is not much time.Another five years of NuLab would threaten the very
survival of the country we have known And what then?Perhaps Kipling had an
insight:

The Beginnings

It was not part of their blood,

It came to them very late

With long arrears to make good,

When the English began to hate.

Their voices were even and low.

Their eyes were level and straight.

There was neither sign nor show,

When the English began to hate.

It was not preached to the crowd.

It was not taught by the State.

No man spoke it aloud,

When the English began to hate.

It was not suddenly bred,

It will not swiftly abate,

through the chilll years ahead

When Time shall count from that date

When the English began to hate.

One of the agreeable features of the contributions by readers to this blog is
that someone will often answer questions raised by another post drawing on
relevant experience or knowledge.So I am grateful to 'billcurtis' for setting
out the history of Hong Kong which dictated the terms of the handover before
formal negotiations began.Nor would I disagree with his bleak assessment of the
role of Chris Patten.Whatever 'Christopher austrier' may have thought about the
legitimacy of the Chinese government, it was the one recognised at the UN and as
such heir to the Treaty which it had observed.

Sadly I cannot pay tribute to any such sagacity on the part of 'crystalpalre'.
If the worst government in living memory was the one in which I served, why was
it re-elected for a third term with more votes than at its first victory?That is
in contrast to Labour's vote, which fell by 1.5 million over the same period.Of
course Blair was re-elected for a third term too, but his vote fell from 13.5
million to 9.5 million.

I'm sorryI if I misunderstood'Velocity' but I find it difficult to engage with
someone who regards Thatcher as afascist. I think 'Velocity' should make haste
to the libraryto study both Thatcher and Mussolini.

Whilst I can understand 'hetroubrador' being pessimistic, he should not give up
hope of better days.At his lowest point KingAlfred was on the run and down to a
handful of men -but he came back to reign as Alfred the Great.

'ytl83' clealy does not believe that the 100-year closure on the Dunblane papers
is to protect children.Nor did I say I did.I simply reported what the
authorities told me.

To those whom I provoked by my reference to "the cult of feminism" I should
emphasise the word "cult".It is not that I have any objection to the idea of
equality between the sexes (my wife would not allow it).It is those cults which
either demonise men, orwhich pretend that there areno differences between men
and women (beyond the obvious ones) andthat we do nothave differing skill sets
and attitudes hard-wired into us by the evolutionary process which I find quite
absurd.

'stopcdotcom' asked if I was afraid of writing about common purpose. No, nor
anything else, but it has to be worth writing about.As for 'Incensed', I think
he intended to say 'your' not 'you're'.

The answer to 'locustsand wild horses' (who was worried about our future out of
the EU) is that we would still trade with both the EU and the rest of the world
- as do many other countries which are not member states. The EU is not so daft
as to refuse to sell goods and services to non-members.

We would however not have to pay tribute to Our Masters in Brussels. Yes, we did
underestimate how well the other Europeans would use American aid to restore
their economies while we struggled to repay the American debts we had incurred
in liberating them.

On the differences between UKIP and BNP, 'assegai' is wrong again and
'Garrinche' and 'Christopher aus trier' are right. Their natural bedrock voters
are very different, because the BNP is a socialist party and UKIP is a
conservative party.That is why Farage is standing at Buckingham and Griffin at
Barking, not the other way around.

'mcclean' is not right to say that the financial crisis arose from blind faith
inthe free market.We all know that markets have to be regulated or they do not
stay fair, which is another requirement for a market to work.Clinton
strong-armed the banks to lend to 'ninjas'(no income, no job, no assets)against
worthless property security.Their price was the repeal of the legislation which
forced separation between conventional High Street banking and the higher risk
investment banks. That led to the pass-the-parcel or liar dice games between the
banks passing off worthless paper as mortgage-backedassets.We suffered acutely
because some of our banks had declared profits from dealing in that rubbish and
had it listed as an asset in their balance sheets.That failure of regulation was
compounded by Brown's reckless spending and borrowing which is why our recovery
is slower than most others.

Would severe public expenditure cuts risk a double-dip recession? Depends how
much how soon. Too much too soon and unemployment would rise, consumer spending
fall, businesses fail. Too little too lateand interest rates will soar,
increasing the deficit, busting private sector companies forcing sales of
owner-occupied homes. There is no risk-free, pain-free way out.

Finally, thank you 'johnhenry' and 'robbydot'for your kind remarks. They are
much appreciated.And I am free to write what I like on this site, short of libel
and crude jokes, and yes, 1984 should be compulsory reading for all.

Poll Tracker: UK General Election 2010 Opinion Poll Tracker

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 29, 2010 Monday

TVDEBATES WILL BE WILD CARD IN THE RACE TO NO10

LENGTH: 639 words


MONDAY VIEW

BY SIR ROBERT WORCESTER

THIS week a year ago it looked clear sailing for David Cameron. That is why
Gordon Brown didn't call an election then.

Now it is an entirely different story. If there were an election tomorrow (there
isn't), it would be a toss-up.

In January the polls had the Tories at 40pc, in February 39pc, and in March
38pc. Not just a poll, the average of all the polls. Labour's on 31pc. The
Liberal Democrats are inching up and 'others', including the Nats, UKIP & BNP,
Greens and others are at 13pc, well above the 8pc others recorded in 2005.

Punters are following the polls closely, odds on a Conservative overall majority
are narrowing, and some smart money is betting on a hung Parliament.

People talk about a 'hung Parliament'. These come in two sorts. What I call a
'hamstrung' Parliament is where we are now. The polls currently say support for
the Tories is below the 'magic 40pc'. There is not a wide enough gulf between
the Tories and Labour to govern with a minority of seats without help from other
parties.

A 'hold- on' Parliament would see the Conservatives as the largest party, so far
ahead of Labour that all the other parties couldn't overturn them in a vote of
confidence, which both an immediate post- election budget or a Queen's Speech
would bring.

A month ago, it looked to be a 'hold-on' for the Tories; now it's 'hamstrung',
with the Liberal Democrats licking their chops at the prospect of a Chancellor
Vince Cable and perhaps Nick Clegg and Chris Huhne also in a Cameron Cabinet.

I have been polling British elections for 40 years. Wilson's 'hamstrung'
Parliament in February 1974, just short of a majority, meant he couldn't count
on winning a vote of confidence, even with the help of a few Liberals and the
SDLP.

When he took office after surprising Heath, he called a meeting of his
'insiders', telling them in the first week of March that they were on alert for
an October 1974 election. The same could happen in 2010. In 1979 when Margaret
Thatcher became PM, twothirds of the electorate were working class, and one
third middle class.

At the last election, over half, 53pc, of electors were middle class, and nearly
six in ten, 57pc, of the voters were.

Right now middle- class voters are taking a hammering. The Chancellor has
targeted the top 5pc of income earners, lifting the top rate of income tax from
40pc to 50pc, and has hiked stamp duty and restricted pension relief. Savings
interest is at a post-war low. The Tories ought to be scooping up middle- class
voter support.

Are they? No, they're not. In 2001, 39pc of middleclass voters supported William
Hague, in 2005, 37pc supported Michael Howard. Across the country, Cameron has
37pc of them, according to an Ipsos MORI poll last week.

The marginals are where it counts. That's where the Tories have been putting
their money. In the marginals, according to our poll for Reuters conducted last
week, there was a 5pc swing from 2005 in the same seats.

WHAT happened to reportedly over 62million of Lord Ashcroft's money spent in
marginals, seats where the Tories thought money talked? It may have, but were
voters listening?

UKIP has been cutting into Tory support; so has the BNP. There's talk of a high
level of 'undecideds'; there always is. But twice as many of them say they're
'leaning' towards Labour.

In January their combined total share was just 3pc, in February 4pc, in March,
5pc. Not much, but at this point, it could be a spoiler.

There's not much sign that the Budget has affected voting intentions.

The debates are the 'wild card', especially the first one, with the three
leaders, Gordon Brown, David Cameron, Nick Clegg, speaking for an hour and a
half on domestic policy.

Someone could drop a clanger or be seen to be 'shaky'. With so much riding on
this election, the debate on April 15 could decide the outcome.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 29, 2010 Monday

Letters - Nationalism is not always the hallmark of imperialism

LENGTH: 282 words


I very much welcome the recent speech by RMT president Alex Gordon at Marx's
grave (M Star March 19).

The question of the defence of the nation state and of the national character of
democracy is a neglected subject on the left, especially in Britain and even
more so among the English left.

This is partly because we - rightly - reject the British and English nationalism
which are so often associated with imperialism, racism, xenophobia, monarchism
and militarism, all the things we hate.

Yet to reject the defence of our own national democracy means throwing the baby
out with the bath water. It means abandoning the fight for popular sovereignty.
It means accepting that the British capitalist class - sometimes acting alone
and sometimes together with its rivals through the EU, the IMF, the G8 etc - can
oppress us without being hampered by the democratic powers which we and our
forbears have fought so hard to win.

As Alex Gordon points out, some people on the left quote a little bit of Marx in
order to win an argument by misrepresenting his ideas. Marx did not argue for
the abolition of nations or nation states under capitalism or even under
socialism.

True internationalism presumes and accepts the existence of nations. If we on
the left fail to defend national democracy, we offer British and English
national feeling as a free gift to the right.

That is why I was so glad to support the No2EU alliance. It offered a chance to
vote against the EU and the Lisbon Treaty from a left-wing, working-class
standpoint, not leaving the field free for the likes of UKIP and the BNP.

The "internationalism" of the EU is utterly phoney and we must reject it
utterly.

KEN KEABLE, Stoke-sub-Hamdon.

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday

BLACK DOG

LENGTH: 492 words


COLUMN

NAUGHTY NIGE AND A LATVIAN BEAUTY

FORMER UKIP leader Nigel Farage, who is trying to oust Speaker John Bercow in
Buckingham, recalls a drunken night with a Latvian beauty called Liga in his
memoirs.

'I met her in a pub and accepted her invitation home for a drink. She was sleek
and seductive and I will not splutter that after the first bottle I would
necessarily have behaved like Sir Galahad.'

Farage is lucky his second wife, Kirsten, is so understanding.

POPULAR Labour MP John Heppell, who once had the words 'love' and 'hate'
tattooed on his left and right knuckles, announced yesterday that he is to give
up his Nottingham East seat. Told that ex-railwayman Heppell may be offered a
seat in the Lords, a friend of the MP observed: 'Perhaps he will have new
tattoos saying "Lord" and "Lady" on his knuckles.'

GORDON BROWN did a double take when his official limo was taken for a major
overhaul and a replacement arrived at No10. It is the only blue Daimler in the
entire Government Car Service. Are the GCS bosses preparing for a true blue
Cameron administration already ñ or is someone trying to wind up the poor PM?

JULIE TO THE RESCUE, BUT TOO LATE TO SAVE HERSELF

DAVID CAMERON praised Tory MP Julie Kirkbride, left, for alerting party chiefs
to the Channel 4 Dispatches video stunt that caught out Stephen Byers and other
Labour bigwigs. 'We have as many greedy fools as Labour,' said a Tory aide.
'Julie saw through it and saved most of them from themselves.' Sadly, it was too
late to save Julie and her husband, fellow MP Andrew Mackay, who are resigning
over their expenses.

WHOEVER wins the May 6 Election will have to leave Britain in days to attend the
parade in Red Square, Moscow, on May 9 to mark the 65th anniversary of Russia's
defeat of the Nazis. Five years ago, at the 60th anniversary, right after the
2005 Election, exhausted Tony Blair sent John Prescott, who was snubbed by
Vladimir Putin and denied a front-row seat. 'We dare not upset Putin again,'
said an FO mole.

MANDY'S SCHADENFREUDE

PETER MANDELSON is shedding no tears for the latest humiliation of EU foreign
policy chief Labour peer Cathy Ashton whose chief spokesman, suave German Lutz
Gullner, has quit. Mandy was furious when Ashton pipped him to the
£270,000-a-year job. 'He hasn't said "I told you so", but he doesn't need to,'
said a friend.

FORMER BBC director-general Greg Dyke is tipped as the new editor of the
Independent newspaper. As a cub reporter at the late-lamented Slough Evening
Mail, one of his scoops claimed the council was to build a nuclear bomb shelter
in the town centre. Clearly, Greg took to heart John Betjeman's poem 'Come
friendly bombs and fall on Slough...'

STUBBORN Barnsley Labour MP Eric Illsley, the only MP under police investigation
over his expenses still planning to stand at the General Election, is under
pressure to quit. Labour officials fear police may charge him during the
campaign. 'Eric is being pig-headed,' said one.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday

PETER HITCHENS

LENGTH: 1181 words


THE NOOSE - OR A LOW-LIFE WITH A KNIFE?

I KNOW WHICH FORM OF JUSTICE I THINK IS THE MORE BARBARIC ...

WHEN I am allowed on to BBC premises, I always feel sorry for the person who has
to escort me to the studio. I can feel her discomfort at being seen speaking to,
and walking next to, a horrible Right-wing monster.

They are generally pretty good at hiding their feelings, but there are some
topics that will earn me noticeable stares of hatred and loathing in the
Corporation's corridors. One (and you'll have to work out why this is) is my
view that the laws against possessing cannabis should be enforced properly. The
other is my belief that heinous murderers should be hanged.

This opinion, in the judgment of BBC types, along with most people who consider
themselves to be educated, makes me a barbarian and unfit for civilised company.
Yet I believe, even more this week than last week, that the gallows is much more
civilised, and far less barbaric, than keeping such murderers alive for long
years in prison.

I completely disagree with people such as the Left-wing Daily Mirror columnist
Brian Reade who wrote, after the killing of Sarah Payne, that capital punishment
was 'civilised society stooping to the level of the depraved' and then added:
'If they catch whoever did it, hanging is too good for him. A life spent dodging
razor blades in his food, needing an armed guard whenever he takes a shower,
fearing every night if he will get his throat slashed tomorrow is more fitting
punishment.'

Well, in the case of the childkiller Ian Huntley, Mr Reade has got his wish. Is
he pleased that the task of justice has been handed over to some low-life with a
home-made knife? Did he hear the news of Huntley's slashed throat with satisfied
joy? Did he wish the attacker had finished the job? Or did he (I hope he did)
feel a slight qualm at the actual fulfilment of his boasted wishes?

In either case, how on earth has he the nerve to call me 'depraved', because I
believe that the State can in rare cases take life, after a fair trial held in
public with the presumption of innocence, a jury and the possibility of appeal
and reprieve? How is this 'depraved', especially in comparison to the hellish
lynchings he advocates, in which the low deal out retribution to the even lower?

Even so, I'll say this for Mr Reade and the rest of the ' hanging is too good
for them' crowd. At least, unlike the pious Guardian readers, who have no
conception of what liberal-run prisons are like, they understand the
consequences of their beliefs, and are prepared openly to defend them.

MORE DRUGS NONSENSE FROM PROFESSOR NUTT

PROFESSOR David Nutt, that ninnybrained menace to the nation's young people, is
now advocating state-regulated handouts of mephedrone and ecstasy in nightclubs,
on the grounds that this would be safer than a legal ban.

It is a reflection of the state of our education system that people like
Professor Nutt are chosen to advise the Government on drugs policy. These
substances can never be safe. The young need a good reason to resist peer
pressure to take them. Their parents need all the help they can get, as

they plead with their children to stay away from the horrible risks of drugs.

I do hope that, long before the end of his smug life, Professor Nutt wakes up
one night in a cold sweat and realises what it is that he has done, and is still
helping to do. And I hope it is soon. These people are not actually evil, only
too stupid and self-satisfied to realise that what they do is evil.

THE JOKE'S ON YOU IF YOU'RE MALE AND RIGHT-WING

I DON'T much like UKIP or its ex-leader Nigel Farage. I've called UKIP a 'Dad's
Army' party for years. So I was quite flattered to see that 'Interviewer of the
Year' Camilla Long used my phrase in her extraordinary interview with Mr Farage.

But I was then puzzled to see that she spent a great deal of energy on the fact
that Mr Farage once suffered from cancer and had a testicle removed as a result.
She even rang him up afterwards to ask which one it was. He took this in good
part. But should we?

Can you imagine what would happen to a male journalist who interviewed a liberal
female politician who had lost a breast to cancer, made that the jokey theme of
the resulting article, and rang her up afterwards to ask which breast it was?

Can you picture the outrage of the cancer charities, the wild storm of fury on
Twitter, the pink-ribboned crowds gathering outside the newspaper's office? But
because Mr Farage is male and his cause is 'Right-wing', you can do what you
like.

13 YEARS ON, AND STILL I SCARE THEM

I'M proud to say that Gordon Brown's Labour machine still hates me as much as
Anthony Blair's lot did. My timely application for credentials to attend the
Premier's Election Press conferences has been rejected by some functionary 'due
to extremely high demand'.

High demand? At a General Election? What a surprise. In Blair's day, two Press
office lackeys tried to close the doors in my face at the launch of the 1997
manifesto, squealing falsely 'It's full!' In that case, I just pushed past, but
in these despotic days 'security' will now prevent that.

It's nice to know that these supposedly gigantic figures are still so scared of
hostile questioning that they are prepared to behave in this moronic, Stalinist
fashion.

THE alleged poet Sir Andrew Motion (can anyone quote a single line of his work
from memory?) claims, amid huge publicity, to be writing a sequel to that great
book Treasure Island. I doubt it very much. It will be for readers to decide if
Sir Andrew's work is a 'sequel' or just an attempt to follow a great writer and
cash in on his deserved fame. I shall be interested to see just how politically
correct this new work is, as almost all children's books published these days
are ñ and as Treasure Island is not.

TEAR down those windmills. Those of us who have long argued against the national
plague of ugly wind farms, ruining huge areas of our loveliest landscapes, were
right all along.

The first proper study of these hideous, intrusive things shows that it is only
subsidies that make them viable. And those subsidies, which are pushing up all
our electricity bills, are based on warmist fanaticism, not on reason. Only the
very best of the land-based farms operate at 50 per cent of their supposed
capacity. Many others produce only 25 to 30 per cent. One, in Blyth Harbour in
Northumberland, produces only

7.9 per cent of its maximum capacity.

Wind power is, was and always will be a fantasy. Yet it is the official policy
of all the major political parties in this country, as we head towards a Third
World electricity shortage not many years ahead.

WHERE are they now, all those people who told us we must join the euro? Now that
it is plainly the German ramp it always was, now that the countries trapped in
it cannot devalue their way out of trouble, and Greece is sent off to beg from
the IMF, where are Kenneth Clarke and Lord Heseltine and that impartial BBC chap
whose name escapes me, who once denounced me in print for my opposition to the
single currency? Time to say sorry, any of you?

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                            MAIL ON SUNDAY (London)

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday

65M TORY DONOR WILL STAND IN ELECTION... AGAINST CAMERON ALLY

BYLINE: BY SIMON WALTERS POLITICAL EDITOR

LENGTH: 609 words


A TYCOON who gave the Tory Party 65million is to stand for Parliament against a
Conservative MP ally of David Cameron who was caught up in the expenses scandal.

Anti- EU campaigner Stuart Wheeler, who was expelled by the Tories last year,
has set up the Trust Party and will challenge Bexhill MP Greg Barker.

Mr Wheeler, who made a fortune from online gambling, says his new anti-expenses
cheats party could field three candidates in the Election and has vowed that if
elected, he will claim no expenses.

He says he wants to restore faith in politics and politicians. His manifesto
will focus on cleaning up the 'corrupt' expenses system and he proposes a new
Parliamentary court with the power to jail politicians who fiddle their
allowances.

But he will also campaign to expose experts who claim climate change is
inevitable, grab back powers handed over to Brussels, promote marriage, improve
treatment for injured British soldiers and prevent the use of torture against
terror suspects.

Mr Barker, the Shadow Climate Change Minister, was accused of pocketing 6320,000
from buying and selling a flat he bought with the help of expenses. He owned a
home in Pimlico, near the Commons, for 27 months before selling it and moving
back to his old address.

Mr Wheeler, who is to launch his candidacy and new party at a Press conference
in Westminster tomorrow, told The Mail on Sunday: 'Greg Barker is just the type
of greedy MP who should be removed from the House of Commons.

'There can be no excuse for his excessive expenses claims. He doesn't even need
the money. Before he entered Parliament he sold his company and made millions of
pounds. Yet he has claimed hundreds of thousands of pounds in expenses, much of
it by ''flipping'' the designation of his second home several times, ensuring
that the taxpayer largely funded these homes, on one of which he made a profit
of no less than 6320,000 tax-free.'

Mr Wheeler says MPs' expenses are far too high. 'I would do away with the
second-home allowance and go back to the old system whereby MPs who travelled to
Westminster can stay in a hotel while in London.

'It would have to be reasonably priced and they would need to produce a receipt.
But there would be no more claims for widescreen TVs and the like. I would
abolish all of that.'

He disputes claims by some MPs that their 665,000 salary is too low, and says
they should take second jobs if they want to earn extra.

'They complain they don't get paid enough, but they are in the top five per cent
of earners, and that is without expenses,' he said.

' There is no reason why they shouldn't take second jobs. MPs have told me
themselves that an MP's job is effectively a three-day week. How else could
Ministers do their ministerial jobs and be MPs as well?

'Subject to safeguards preventing conflicts of interest, it would be a huge
benefit because they would learn what is going on in the real world and could
put that knowledge to good effect in their political roles.'

Mr Wheeler's 65million gift to the Conservatives in 2001 remains the biggest
ever single political donation in Britain.

He was thrown out of the party after giving 6100,000 to the anti-European UKIP
Party last year.

Mr Wheeler believes a growing number of people want to curb the EU's powers. And
he said he is 'deeply sceptical' about global warming.

His Trust Party is to field a second candidate, accountant Douglas Taylor,
against Scottish Nationalist MP Pete Wishart in Perth.

Mr Wishart was asked to repay 61,632 in respect of a duplicate claim for flat
rental and a utility bill after an investigation into his expenses.

Mr Wheeler hopes a third Trust Party candidate may stand in Wales.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain should have a referendum on the EU

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 222 words


SIR - Any Tory Government will have to deal with our relationship with Europe
once and for all. Why doesn't it get an electoral advantage out of this by
promising to hold a referendum on Britain's membership of the EU within a year?
Britain is an awkward member state at the best of times. With the splits in the
party over Europe, a Conservative administration will find it difficult to
operate in Brussels, especially when working with the new member states in the
East, which, having gone through hoops to get into Europe, cannot understand why
the Tories seem to want to dismember the institutions.

The Conservatives' choice of political bedfellows further mystifies them. Why
desert the powerful EPP in the European Parliament for a less effective alliance
of ultra-Right-wing parties? Let us have a referendum, and see if the Tory Right
has gauged our country's mood correctly. If it has, we will find out if its
contention that Britain would be better off outside the EU is true.

Certainly, Europe would be better off without Britain putting a spanner in the
works of the European project. If the Right has not gauged public opinion
correctly, and the country votes to stay in the EU, then the issue is dead. The
Tory Right would have to grin and bear it, and Ukip would have lost its reason
for being.

Earl of Stockton London SW1

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              10 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tory leader's EU protest too late;
Your letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 95 words


DAVID Cameron is right with his "Common sense revolution for people power"
(Sunday Express, March 21) but his comments on the EU are too little, too late.

Brussels already controls 80 per cent of our laws so his proposed Bill will
protect only the remaining 20 per cent. He says 'this' is now part of the
British constitution. Presumably, by 'this' he means the EU so he is accepting
that Britain will remain in the EU, which, as your excellent editorial column
points out, is a farce.

It is a meaningless pledge to try to plug the leak of voters to UKIP.

Mike Smith, Gloucester

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              11 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Rattled Tories turn Gordon into a poster boy for Dave;
FOCUS

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 659 words


DAVID CAMERON put party activists on election footing last night with just "40
days and 40 nights" left to snatch victory from a resurgent Labour party. 1On
the eve of the election, troubles are mounting for the Conservative leader and a
party still facing the bleak prospect of a messy draw on May 6.

Despite Alistair Darling's fantasy Budget and the unedifying spectacle of
ex-Labour Ministers peddling their influence for cash on a damaging documentary,
the polls remain stubbornly stuck in hung Parliament territory.

Not even the news that Samantha Cameron is expecting the couple's fourth child
has so far given the Tories a much needed feel-good bounce in the polls.

Conservative high command is banking on a shift in tactics to transform its
fortunes.

It is a move away from positive messages about Tory proposals towards a
sustained attack on Gordon Brown's "appalling record" in office.

The gloves come off tomorrow when posters, designed by the new advertising team
of the Saatchis, go up at 850 sites across the country.

You won't find Mr Brown's face on Labour's campaign literature but he grins down
from the Tory posters declaring: "I let 80,000 criminals out of jail early. Vote
for me" and: "I caused record youth unemployment. Vote for me."

Others remind voters that Mr Brown has launched an unprecedented raid on
pensions, widened the gap between the rich and poor and cost Britain £6billion
by selling our gold at rock bottom prices.

There is hope among Mr Cameron's inner circle that the polls' trend, which has
seen the Conservatives' average 10 per cent lead shrink to as low as two, is
about to widen once more.

While Mr Brown is notorious for indulging in fits of bad temper when things go
wrong, Mr Cameron keeps a cooler head. He told the Sunday Express last week that
the secret to handling the sustained pressure of a campaign that effectively
began in January was to "just keep ploughing on".

In truth the sooner the election is called the better for the Tories, whose
decision to hold back on public spending announcements until they are in the
thick of battle is clearly hurting them with voters.

A ComRes poll, published yesterday, incredibly shows Labour is more trusted on
the economy than the Conservatives, who trail Labour by 27 per cent to 33 per
cent.

Mr Cameron, appearing on BBC's Politics Show today, (SUN) gets a rough ride from
the audience in the key marginal of Stourbridge over muddied plans on marriage
tax, cutting Labour's National Insurance rises and going faster and further than
Labour on slashing Britain's colossal debts.

"The point is you will be asking for our votes in about six weeks time and we do
need to understand where all this money is coming from," says Midlands
businessman Peter Jackson.

"Before the election you will know more about what we plan to do in 2010. That's
a promise I can make you," Mr Cameron replied.

The Conservative leader also seems at odds with the audience over his
sympathetic stance on immigration migration and his belief that Britain needs to
play a full role in Europe.

Mr Cameron has promised to cut net immigration to tens of thousands, from its
current level of more than 200,000 but his refusal to put a firm figure on his
immigration cap cuts no mustard with the Stourbridge voters.

Another audience member David Holmer, who has turned his back on the Tories in
favour of UKIP, complains Europe is an issue is being "swept under the carpet".

"I'm very happy to talk about Europe," rope," says Mr Cameron, "my view is we
should be in the European Union, we're a trading nation, we need those markets
open, we should be co-operating with our partners about the things that matter
to us but I don't want to live in a country called Europe and I don't think we
should pass any more powers from Westminster to Brussels."

After ditching his promise for a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, following its
ratification, Mr Cameron's 'Plan B for Brussels' is designed to appease
traditional

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              12 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                                 March 28, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Rattled Tories turn Gordon into a poster boy for Dave;
FOCUS

BYLINE: Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 705 words


DAVID CAMERON put party activists on election footing last night with only "40
days and 40 nights" left to snatch victory from a resurgent Labour party.
Troubles are mounting for the Conservative leader and a party still facing the
bleak prospect of a messy draw on May 6.

Despite Alistair Darling's fantasy Budget and the unedifying spectacle of
ex-Labour ministers peddling their influence for cash in a damaging documentary,
the polls remain stubbornly stuck in hung Parliament territory.

Not even the news that Samantha Cameron is expecting the couple's fourth child
has given the Tories a "feel-good" bounce in the polls.

Conservative high command is banking on a shift in tactics to transform its
fortunes. It is moving away from positive messages about Tory proposals towards
an attack on Gordon Brown's "appalling record". The gloves come off tomorrow
when posters designed by the Saatchi advertising team go up at 850 sites across
Britain.

You won't find Mr Brown's face on Labour's campaign literature but he grins from
the Tory posters declaring: "I let 80,000 criminals out of jail early. Vote for
me" and "I caused record youth unemployment. Vote for me."

Others remind voters that Mr Brown has launched an unprecedented raid on
pensions, widened the gap between rich and poor and cost Britain £6billion by
selling our gold at rock-bottom prices.

Amid hopes in Mr Cameron's camp that the poll gap would widen, two polls for
Sunday newspapers gave conflicting results last night.

A YouGov survey showed Labour narrowing the Tory lead from seven to five points
while an ICM poll said the Conservatives had extended their lead to eight
points, still not enough for a Commons majority.

While Mr Brown is notorious for indulging in fits of bad temper when things go
wrong, Mr Cameron keeps a cooler head.

He told the Sunday Express last week that the secret of handling the sustained
pressure of a campaign was to "just keep ploughing on".

The sooner the election is called the better for the Tories, whose decision to
hold back on public spending announcements until they are in the thick of battle
is clearly hurting them with voters. A ComRes poll, published yesterday, shows
Labour is more trusted on the economy than the Conservatives, who trail Labour
by 27 per cent to 33 per cent.

Mr Cameron, whose appearance on BBC1's Politics Show is screened today, gets a
rough ride from the audience in the key marginal of Stourbridge, West Midlands.

Topics covered include marriage tax, cutting Labour's National Insurance rises
and going further than Labour on slashing Britain's colossal debts. "You will be
asking for our votes in about six weeks' time and we need to understand where
all this money is coming from," says businessman Peter Jackson.

Mr Cameron replies: "Before the election you will know more about what we plan
to do in 2010. That's a promise I can make you."

He also seems at odds with the audience over his sympathetic stance on
immigration.

Mr Cameron has promised to cut net immigration to tens of thousands from its
current level of more than 200,000 but his refusal to put a firm figure on his
immigration cap cuts no ice with the Stourbridge voters. Audience member David
Holmer, who has turned his back on the Tories in favour of UKIP, complains that
Europe is an issue being "swept under the carpet".

"I'm happy to talk about Europe," says Mr Cameron. "We should be in the European
Union, we're a trading nation, we need those markets open.

"We should be co-operating with our partners about the things that matter to us
but I don't want to live in a country called Europe and I don't think we should
pass any more powers from Westminster to Brussels."

After ditching his promise of a refer-After ditching his promise of a referendum
on the Lisbon Treaty, following its ratification, Mr Cameron's "Plan B for
Brussels" is designed to appease traditional voters. Not only would a
Conservative government seek to claw back some national powers from Brussels, it
would give the public a national vote before any further power grab from the EU.

"I accept lots of people have not made up their minds and still need to be
convinced," says Mr Cameron. "The opportunity for change is there and I think
people will grab it."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              13 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 28, 2010
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

The UK Independence party claims [...];
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 51 words


The UK Independence party claims furiously that Camilla Long, interviewer of the
year, was insensitive about Nigel Farage's single testicle when she met the
former party leader for an interview in last weekend's Sunday Times.

Insensitive? Oh no - it could have been much worse: we could have sent Lynne
Truss.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              14 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

After that jibe, Norman may need his ideal woman;
ATTICUS

BYLINE: ROLAND WHITE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 160 words


Lord Tebbit, amateur game chef and former Tory chairman, is a gift that just
keeps on giving. Famously the only minister who could skin a cabinet colleague
with his bare hands, Norman has won himself yet another accolade - the
politician least likely to be asked to the Spare Rib magazine commemoration
dinner. With outstanding bravado, he has described feminism as "an idiotic
cult". This was in a tribute to the "courage, wit and resolution" of the late
Baroness Park, once Britain's most senior female spy and just the sort of friend
Norman will need now - somebody able to fend off crazed attackers armed with
sharpened copies of The Female Eunuch.

The UK Independence party claims furiously that Camilla Long, interviewer of the
year, was insensitive about Nigel Farage's single testicle when she met the
former party leader for an interview in last weekend's Sunday Times.

Insensitive? Oh no - it could have been much worse: we could have sent Lynne
Truss.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              15 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 28, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Give us the news, not parish pump

BYLINE: JOAN McALPINE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1292 words


People living along state boundaries often have a highly developed sense of
national identity. It might be a form of self-preservation, or a means to
justify decades of bloody incursions into rival territory. But it lingers on
into the modern age.

The Scottish Borders, indeed the whole southern half of the country, conforms to
this stereotype. We will soon see its cinematic manifestation in the epic Eagle
of the Ninth, where a Roman Legion goes missing north of Hadrian's Wall.
Pictland then was another country altogether. But the differences in language
and allegiance continued long after woad went out of fashion.

Robert Burns spent his mature years in Dumfries. Sir Walter Scott and James
Hogg, giant figures of Scottish literature, drew inspiration from the Border
Ballads they collected around their homes. Rural Galloway remained the most
Gaelic part of Scotland outside the Highlands into the 18th century. The poet
and leading light of the Scottish literary renaissance of the 1930s, Hugh
MacDiarmid, was from Langholm.

Villagers on the Scottish side of the border speak a Scots similar to their
shepherd forefathers. The late rugby commentator, Bill McLaren, used to talk of
celebrations in the streets of Hawick. A player from one of the Edinburgh sides
would struggle to understand the braid, post-match banter in that most Scottish
of border towns.

But when southern Scots turn on the television, they must tune into a very
different accent - Geordie. The 200,000 or so souls who inhabit the expansive
stretch from Solway to Tweed are not Scottish in the eyes of broadcasting
regulators.

They inhabit an amorphous region that is neither Scotland nor England and hasn't
existed in political terms since the first millennium.

News is beamed out by Tyne Tees in Newcastle, which swallowed Border Television
some time back. Folk in Stranraer are expected to be engrossed by planning
decisions in South Shields. It's like assuming Hastings has more in common with
Dunkirk than Birmingham.

Never mind that southern Scotland sends representatives to a parliament in
Edinburgh. For broadcasting purposes, they live in a sort of Northumbristan.

Joe Stalin would have approved: force together different groups of people, give
them a name that denies their historical uniqueness, then accuse them of being
tribalist reactionaries if they challenge this imposition.

The Newcastle-based bosses have already shown they don't get Scotland. During
the European election campaign last year, they were forced to show a party
political broadcast from the SNP they wanted to drop. Tyne Tees intended to
substitute a UKIP broadcast, a party whose vote in Scotland is negligible. There
was resistance to devolving responsibility for broadcasting to the Scottish
parliament back in the late 1990s. It was reserved to London in Donald Dewar's
Scotland Act. The scrupulously non-aligned Scottish Broadcasting Commission, set
up by the SNP government in 1997, failed to recommend a transfer of control to
Holyrood. It was considered suspect to call for such a thing. Broadcasting,
surely, was already free of political interference? It was as if we didn't trust
ourselves and thought standards and impartiality were best safeguarded in
London.

Broadcasting is already highly politicised. "Technical" decisions about the
structure and delivery of television shape content. In turn, content shapes
popular culture, our sense of ourselves and our ability to understand our own
country and so participate in democracy.

Much of the debate about broadcasting in Scotland is focused on the BBC,
unsurprisingly given the public money it consumes. But commercial television is
also regulated by the Westminster government and last week we saw how this works
to undermine Scotland's historical, cultural and political integrity. The
advertising crisis has left commercial television companies struggling to fund
regional news. The government offered to provide a pot of cash to set up pilot
news services that would be put out to tender, with the winners being announced
last week by the Department of Culture, Media and Sport in London. The "regions
and nations" covered by these pilots included the STV area from the central belt
northwards, with the Borders/Tyne Tees region being dealt with separately.

Reuniting the Borders with the rest of Scotland was never even discussed.

STV has, in the past two years, tried to improve and increase its Scottish
content, despite financial constraints and regulations that force it to buy
programmes from the ITV network. Its bid for the pilot proposed to run an
hourlong bulletin that combined Scottish, UK and international news in
collaboration with ITN. Regions of Scotland would get additional opt-outs to
cover local stories.

The proposal was similar to the "Scottish Six" that BBC Scotland executives
wanted to run a decade ago, but which the BBC Trust (containing one Scottish
member appointed by London) was famously "not minded" to support.

As an ancient nation with a modern presence and a parliament whose powers most
Scots wish to see increased, we deserve our own dedicated digital channel.

The Scottish Broadcasting Commission recommended this after consulting industry
professionals. If we cannot have that, the "Scottish Six" proposal is at least a
start.

However, the English culture minister, Ben Bradshaw, decided to award the STV
area pilot to a consortium comprising the local newspaper groups Newsquest,
Johnston Press, and DC Thomson, which publish The Herald, The Scotsman and The
Sunday Post titles respectively, as well as a number of small-circulation local
papers.

With no disrespect to some of the fine journalists working for these papers, the
consortium, which includes an independent television company called Tinopolis,
does not inspire confidence.

It appears to be an effort to keep struggling local newspapers alive through
public subsidy.

Its pitch was hyper-local, proposing to equip journalists with video cameras,
then send them forth to capture the latest goings on around their parish pump.
This might be fine and dandy for the ITV regions of England. But Scotland is
more than a collection of neighbourhoods.

We are a nation.

English regions already have a choice of national news provided by the BBC, ITV,
Channel Four and Sky. Scotland only has the BBC and STV. The purpose of this
exercise was to provide an alternative to the Beeb and in Scotland that ought to
be a national alternative.

We need a flagship news programme that elevates us above the parochial diet of
crime and court stories, that engages citizens with the political process and
underlines Scotland's place in the world. Such a programme, if done well, would
speak to Scots intelligently, raise our aspirations and underline our sense of
ourselves. Should we be surprised that a Labour minister in London opted for the
opposite - a proposal that infantilises and fragments this country? The saving
grace is that the Tories oppose the proposal and ITV will not make any decision
until after the general election. David Cameron has said he wishes to listen to
Scotland. Broadcasting provides him with an opportunity to do that at very
little cost.

Unlike Labour, his party doesn't need to be propped up by Scottish backbenchers.

Assuming he wins the general election, he would be able to get off to a good
start in Scotland if he reflected at least the spirit of the cross-party
broadcasting commission. He should also bear in mind that STV is an independent
Scottish company and its demise, whatever its past sins, would be damaging.

Let's hope he listens - and makes the sort of decision that will have them
dancing in the streets of Hawick.

joan.mcalpine@sunday-times.co.uk

'WHEN SOUTHERN SCOTS TURN ON THE TV, THEY TUNE INTO GEORDIE ACCENTS'

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              16 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Rattled Tories turn Gordon into a poster boy for Dave

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 13

LENGTH: 684  words


DAVID CAMERON put party activists on election footing last night with only "40
days and 40 nights" left to snatch victory from a resurgent Labour party.
Troubles are mounting for the Conservative leader and a party still facing the
bleak prospect of a messy draw on May 6.

Despite Alistair Darling's fantasy Budget and the unedifying spectacle of
ex-Labour ministers peddling their influence for cash in a damaging documentary,
the polls remain stubbornly stuck in hung Parliament territory.

Not even the news that Samantha Cameron is expecting the couple's fourth child
has so far given the Tories a much-needed feel good bounce in the polls.

Conservative high command is banking on a shift in tactics to transform its
fortunes. It is moving away from positive messages about Tory proposals towards
a sustained attack on Gordon Brown's "appalling record" in office.

The gloves come off tomorrow when posters designed by the Saatchi advertising
team go up at 850 sites across Britain.

You won't find Mr Brown's face on Labour's campaign literature, but he grins
down from the Tory posters declaring: "I let 80,000 criminals out of jail early.
Vote for me" and "I caused record youth unemployment. Vote for me."

Others remind voters that Mr Brown has launched an unprecedented raid on
pensions, widened the gap between rich and poor and cost Britain GBP 6billion by
selling our gold at rock-bottom prices.

There is hope among Mr Cameron's inner circle that the poll gap, which has seen
the Conservatives' average 10 per cent lead shrink to two, is about to widen
once more.

While Mr Brown is notorious for indulging in fits of bad temper when things go
wrong, Mr Cameron keeps a cooler head.

He told the Sunday Express last week that the secret of handling the sustained
pressure of a campaign that effectively began in January was to "just keep
ploughing on".

The sooner the election is called the better for the Tories, whose decision to
hold back on public spending announcements until they are in the thick of battle
is clearly hurting them with voters. A ComRes poll, published yesterday, shows
Labour is more trusted on the economy than the Conservatives, who trail Labour
by 27 per cent to 33 per cent.

Mr Cameron, whose appearance on BBC1's Politics Show is screened today, gets a
rough ride from the audience in the key marginal of Stourbridge, West Midlands.

Topics covered include marriage tax, cutting Labour's National Insurance rises
and going further than Labour on slashing Britain's colossal debts. "You will be
asking for our votes in about six weeks' time and we need to understand where
all this money is coming from, " says businessman Peter Jackson.

Mr Cameron replies: "Before the election you will know more about what we plan
to do in 2010. That's a promise I can make you."

He also seems at odds with the audience over his sympathetic stance on
immigration.

Mr Cameron has promised to cut net immigration to tens of thousands, from its
current level of more than 200,000, but his refusal to put a firm figure on his
immigration cap cuts no ice with the Stourbridge voters.

Audience member David Holmer, who has turned his back on the Tories in favour of
UKIP, complains that Europe is an issue being "swept under the carpet".

"I'm happy to talk about Europe, " says Mr Cameron. "We should be in the
European Union, we're a trading nation, we need those markets open.

"We should be co-operating with our partners about the things that matter to us
but I don't want to live in a country called Europe and I don't think we should
pass any more powers from Westminster to Brussels."

After ditching his promise of a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty, following its
ratification, Mr Cameron's "Plan B for Brussels" is designed to appease
traditional voters. Not only would a Conservative government seek to claw back
some national powers from Brussels, it would give the public a national vote
before any further power grab from the EU.

"I accept lots of people have not made up their minds and still need to be
convinced, " says Mr Cameron.

"The opportunity for change is there and I think people will grab it."

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              17 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 28, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tory leader's EU protest too late;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 40

LENGTH: 96  words


DAVID Cameron is right with his "Common sense revolution for people power"
(Sunday Express, March 21) but his comments on the EU are too little, too late.

Brussels already controls 80 per cent of our laws so his proposed Bill w ill
protect only the remaining 20 per cent. He says 'this' is now part of the
British constitution. Presumably, by 'this' he means the EU so he is accepting
that Britain will remain in the EU, which, as your excellent editorial column
points out, is a farce.

It is a meaningless pledge to try to plug the leak of voters to UKIP.

Mike Smith, Gloucester

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              18 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

We'll pay for Greece

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 125 words


SIR - I fear Britain can already be forced to bail out Greece under EU treaties
(report, "EU draws up plans for single 'economic government' ", March 26). The
Government admitted to me in the Lords on March 15 that "any request for
financial support... would be considered by the... Council, where it would be
voted on by a qualified majority".

I also fear that the euro's difficulties will not break up the EU itself, as
many now hope. Even if Greece, Portugal, Spain, Italy and Ireland all fall out
of the euro, it will not stop the European integration project.

Instead, it will be taken by the Eurocrats as the best "beneficial crisis" yet,
to be overcome with "more Europe" under the powers granted at Lisbon.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch Leader, Ukip London SW1

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              19 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE RISE OF 'THE OTHERS' IN OPINION POLLS IS BAD NEWS FOR CAMERON

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 488 words


TO MOST people "The Others" is the name of a thriller starring nicole Kidman in
which a family's house is plagued by ghosts.

To opinion pollsters "The Others" means something quite different. It is the
generic name they give to the minor parties. Something very interesting has been
happening to "The Others" in recent months. Their combined share of the vote
keeps rising. One pollster had them on 20 per cent this week.

Foremost among "The Others" is the uK Independence Party, which has been
recording a rating of six per cent in many polls. This is despite voters
realising that it is unlikely to win a single seat under our first-past-the-post
electoral system. In conventional terms, a uKIP vote will be a wasted vote. What
is more, most uKIP voters are on the Right and know their votes may deprive the
Conservatives of gains and thus lead to a hung Parliament rather than an
outright Tory majority.

This in turn could result in a Labour-Liberal regime that continues surrendering
to the European union. Those intending to vote uKIP understand this but it does
not deter them.

Since his capitulation over the Lisbon Treaty, they do not regard David
Cameron's Tories any more favourably than the other Westminster parties. They
have coined a collective term for all three: the LibLabCon.

And when uKIP supporters see the tentacles of Europe behind most unwelcome
political developments, it is difficult to disagree. Take a few recent examples.
British teenagers are losing out on university places because Eu rules require
students from elsewhere in Europe to be accepted (and subsidised) on exactly the
same basis as our own. This is largely one-way traffic as few British teenagers
go to study in continental Europe.

Then there is the Romanian family who tried to steal a British man's house but
are entitled to remain in the uK on benefits because Romania is in the Eu. And
what about the Portuguese man here on benefits and entitled to be paid child
benefit for children who reside in Portugal? European law again.

UKIP under Lord Pearson has set out a broader agenda that appeals to many people
but is based on ideas that none of the big parties will embrace. These include
the return of grammar schools, a flat tax, a freeze on immigration and
scepticism about global warming. Instead of smearing uKIP supporters as
"fruitcakes and closet racists", Cameron would be better advised to politely ask
them to lend him their votes in the common cause of ridding Britain of Gordon
Brown.

In the film The Others, the family that thinks it is being haunted eventually
discovers an awful truth: its own members are the ghosts and those it thought
came from beyond the grave are the rightful inhabitants of the house. If "The
Others" in British politics maintain their momentum and the voting system is
changed to give them a fairer chance, the leaderships of the big three
Westminster parties may one day have to face a similar reality.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              20 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

CLIMATE MPS LIVE IT UP;
They fly out to Tenerife and guess who's paying

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,7

LENGTH: 461 words


A GROUP of Euro-MPs sparked fury yesterday after jetting off to sunny Tenerife
on an expensive junket to discuss climate change.

The six-day summit will see scores of Eurocrats descending on the Canary Isles,
leaving taxpayers back home to pick up the £550,000 bill.

Five British MEPs form part of the EU delegation that will discuss climate
change, bananas and illegal immigration on the popular holiday island.

But no treaties will be signed and no legislation will come into force as the
summit has no power to enshrine decisions in law. Instead, the 250 delegates
will enjoy visits to the island's finest beaches and be wined and dined at gala
dinners while living it up in luxury hotels.

Critics last night branded it "hypocritical" to fly delegations thousands of
miles - creating some 200 tons in carbon emissions - to discuss saving the
planet.

UKIP Euro-MP Derek Clark said: "MEPs from all three establishment parties are
off on a junket with taxpayers' cash, pouring tons of carbon into the
atmosphere."

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It is sickening that these MEPs
are jetting off to a sunny island while their constituents are stuck with
strikes, pay cuts and tax rises. To fly to a conference where they plan to
lecture us about climate change is the height of hypocrisy.

"It's funny how these conferences are always held somewhere with sandy, sunny
beaches."

Friends of the Earth said: "MEPs should be leading by example."

The summit, which starts today, was described as little more than a "talking
shop" by one Eurocrat.

Among the delegates are British Euro-MPs David Martin (Labour), Martin Callanan
(Conservative), Robert Sturdy (Conservative), James Nicholson (Ulster Unionist)
and Fiona Hall (Liberal Democrat).

Last night Miss Hall said it was Spain which chose Tenerife as it holds the EU
presidency. She added: "It is ridiculous that we have to go all the way to
Tenerife." No other MEP was available for comment.

The delegation is made up of 68 Euro-MPs from all 27 EU member states. They will
meet with 68 representatives from African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) nations
and up to 114 officials and translators.

Conference and accommodation costs are estimated to be £400,000, while flights
for the EU delegation will cost £160,000. ACP delegates are expected to pay
their own way.

An ACP-EU spokesman told the Daily Express yesterday that Tenerife had been
chosen because the Canary Islands were Europe's biggest banana producer and a
prime gateway for illegal immigration .

Do MEPs have it too easy? q Yes: 0901 030 8348 no: 0901 030 8349 Yes text
DXsaTYes to 80088 no text DXsaTno to 80088 Calls cost 25p from a BT landline.
Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

MEPs fly off...to save the planet

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The sun-drenched Playa del Duque beach on Tenerife's southern Costa
Adeje where the "talking shop" is being held

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              21 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Outrage as MEPs fly off to Tenerife for climate change talks

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 547 words


EUROPEAN MPs sparked fur y yesterday by jetting off to the holiday island of
Tenerife on a junket to discuss climate change.

The six-day summit that begins today will see scores of Eurocrats descending on
the Canary Isles at a cos t of more than £550,000 t o taxpayers.

Critics branded it "sickening" and "hypocritical" to fly delegations thousands
of miles - creating some 200 tons in carbon emissions - to discuss saving the
planet.

Five British Euro-MPs are part of an EU delegation that will discuss the
financial and economic impact of climate change, bananas and illegal immigration
with representatives of African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) nations.

But no treaties will be signed and no legislation will come into force as the
summit, officially the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, has no power to
enshrine decisions in law.

Instead the 250 delegates will enjoy visits to the island's finest beaches and
historic sites, be wined and dined at gala dinners, enjoy cocktail receptions
and stay in luxury hotels.

Junket

An ACP-EU spokesman told the Daily Express yesterday that Tenerife had been
chosen because the Canary Islands are Europe's biggest banana producer and a
prime gateway for illegal immigration.

UKIP Euro-MP Derek Clark said: "MEPs from all three establishment parties are
off on a junket with taxpayers' cash, pouring tons of carbon into the
atmosphere."

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This is a classic example of
the EU gravy train in action.

"It is sickening that these MEPs are jetting off to a sunny island while their
constituents are stuck with strikes, pay cuts and tax rises.

"To fly to a conference where they plan to lecture us about climate change is
the height of hypocrisy.

"It's funny how these conferences are always held somewhere with sandy, sunny
beaches."

Friends of the Earth said: "MEPs should be leading by example - and holding
meetings in a more accessible location is common sense."

The summit was yesterday described as little more than a "talking shop" by one
Eurocrat.

The Brussels insider said: "The organisers claim that because Tenerife is close
to Africa it will cut down on travel time for many of the delegates.

"But there are few if any direct flights to Tenerife from anywhere but Spain."

Among the delegates are British Euro-MPs David Martin, Labour; Conservat ive Mar
t in Cal lanan; Conserative Robert Sturdy; Ulster Unionist James Nicholson; and
Lib-Dem Fiona Hall.

Ms Hall said: "It is ridiculous that we have to go all the way to Tenerife."

She added that it was Spain who chose Tenerife as they hold the EU presidency.
No other Euro-MP was available for comment. The 250-strong delegation is made up
of 68 Euro-MPs from all the 27 EU members, 68 representatives from African,
Caribbean and Pacific states and up to 114 assistants, translators and other
officials.

The summit is being held at Tenerife's imposing Magma Arts and Congress Centre,
on the southern Costa Adeje.

Most Euro-MPs are believed to have flown from Brussels with Spain's nat ional ai
r l ine Iber ia, cost ing taxpayers £1,500 for the return trip in business
class, via Madrid. Assistants and other officials are expected to have flown
economy which still costs £1,000.

African, Caribbean and Pacific delegates are expected to pay their own way.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The sun-drenched Playa del Duque beach on Tenerife's southern Costa
Adeje where the six-day "talking shop" is being held

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              22 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

CLIMATE MPS LIVE IT UP

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 426  words


They fly out to Tenerife and guess who's paying

A GROUP of Euro-MPs sparked fury yesterday after jetting off to sunny Tenerife
on an expensive junket to discuss climate change.

The six-day summit will see scores of Eurocrats descending on the Canary Isles,
leaving taxpayers back home to pick up the GBP 550,000 bill.

Five British MEPs form part of the EU delegation that will discuss climate
change, bananas and illegal immigration on the popular holiday island.

But no treaties will be signed and no legislation will come into force as the
summit has no power to enshrine decisions in law.

Instead, the 250 delegates will enjoy visits to the island's finest beaches and
be wined and dined at gala dinners while living it up in luxury hotels.

Critics last night branded it "hypocritical" to fly delegations thousands of
miles - creating some 200 tons in carbon emissions - to discuss saving the
planet.

UKIP Euro-MP Derek Clark said:

"MEPs from all three establishment parties are off on a junket with taxpayers'
cash, pouring tons of carbon into the atmosphere."

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It is sickening that these MEPs
are jetting off to a sunny island while their constituents are stuck with
strikes, pay cuts and tax rises. To fly to a conference where they plan to
lecture us about climate change is the height of hypocrisy.

"It's funny how these conferences are always held somewhere with sandy, sunny
beaches."

Friends of the Earth said: "MEPs should be leading by example."

The summit, which starts today, was described as little more than a "talking
shop" by one Eurocrat.

Among the delegates are British Euro-MPs David Martin (Labour), Martin Callanan
(Conservative), Robert Sturdy (Conservative), James Nicholson (Ulster Unionist)
and Fiona Hall (Liberal Democrat).

Last night Miss Hall said it was Spain which chose Tenerife as it holds the EU
presidency. She added:

"It is ridiculous that we have to go all the way to Tenerife." No other MEP was
available for comment.

The delegation is made up of 68 Euro-MPs from all 27 EU member states. They will
meet with 68 representatives from African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) nations
and up to 114 officials and translators.

Conference and accommodation costs are estimated to be GBP 400,000, while
flights for the EU delegation will cost GBP 160,000. ACP delegates are expected
to pay their own way.

An ACP-EU spokesman told the Daily Express yesterday that Tenerife had been
chosen because the Canary Islands were Europe's biggest banana producer and a
prime gateway for illegal immigration.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The sun-drenched Playa del Duque beach on Tenerife's southern Costa
Adeje where the "talking shop" is being held

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              23 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Outrage as MEPs fly off to Tenerife for climate change talks

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 545  words


EUROPEAN MPs sparked fury yesterday by jetting off to the holiday island of
Tenerife on a junket to discuss climate change.

The six-day summit that begins today will see scores of Eurocrats descending on
the Canary Isles at a cost of more than GBP 550,000 to taxpayers.

Critics branded it "sickening" and "hypocritical" to fly delegations thousands
of miles - creating some 200 tons in carbon emissions - to discuss saving the
planet.

Five British Euro-MPs are part of an EU delegation that will discuss the
financial and economic impact of climate change, bananas and illegal immigration
with representatives of African, Caribbean and Pacific (ACP) nations.

But no treaties will be signed and no legislation will come into force as the
summit, officially the ACP-EU Joint Parliamentary Assembly, has no power to
enshrine decisions in law.

Instead the 250 delegates will enjoy visits to the island's finest beaches and
historic sites, be wined and dined at gala dinners, enjoy cocktail receptions
and stay in luxury hotels.

An ACP-EU spokesman told the Daily Express yesterday that Tenerife had been
chosen because the Canary Islands are Europe's biggest banana producer and a
prime gateway for illegal immigration.

UKIP Euro-MP Derek Clark said:

"MEPs from all three establishment parties are off on a junket with taxpayers'
cash, pouring tons of carbon into the atmosphere."

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This is a classic example of
the EU gravy train in action.

"It is sickening that these MEPs are j etting off to a sunny island while their
constituents are stuck with strikes, pay cuts and tax rises.

"To fly to a conference where they plan to lecture us about climate change is
the height of hypocrisy.

"It's funny how these conferences are always held somewhere with sandy, sunny
beaches."

Friends of the Earth said: "MEPs should be leading by example - and holding
meetings in a more accessible location is common sense."

The summit was yesterday described as little more than a "talking shop" by one
Eurocrat.

The Brussels insider said: "The organisers claim that because Tenerife is close
to Africa it will cut down on travel time for many of the delegates.

"But there are few if any direct flights to Tenerife from anywhere but Spain."

Among the delegates are British Euro-MPs David Martin, Labour;

Conservative Martin Callanan;

Conserative Robert Sturdy; Ulster Unionist James Nicholson; and Lib-Dem Fiona
Hall.

Ms Hall said: "It is ridiculous that we have to go all the way to Tenerife."

She added that it was Spain who chose Tenerife as they hold the EU presidency.
No other Euro-MP was available for comment. The 250-strong delegation is made up
of 68 Euro-MPs from all the 27 EU members, 68 representatives from African,
Caribbean and Pacific states and up to 114 assistants, translators and other
officials.

The summit is being held at Tenerife's imposing Magma Arts and Congress Centre,
on the southern Costa Adeje.

Most Euro-MPs are believed to have flown from Brussels with Spain's national
airline Iberia, costing taxpayers GBP 1,500 for the return trip in business
class, via Madrid. Assistants and other officials are expected to have flown
economy which still costs GBP 1,000.

African, Caribbean and Pacific delegates are expected to pay their own way.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The sun-drenched Playa del Duque beach on Tenerife's southern Costa
Adeje where the six-day "talking shop" is being held

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              24 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

THE RISE OF 'THE OTHERS' IN OPINION POLLS IS BAD NEWS FOR CAMERON

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS; 17

LENGTH: 488  words


TO MOST people "The Others" is the name of a thriller starring Nicole Kidman in
which a family's house is plagued by ghosts.

To opinion pollsters "The Others" means something quite different. It is the
generic name they give to the minor parties. Something very interesting has been
happening to "The Others" in recent months. Their combined share of the vote
keeps rising. One pollster had them on 20 per cent this week.

Foremost among "The Others" is the UK Independence Party, which has been
recording a rating of six per cent in many polls. This is despite voters
realising that it is unlikely to win a single seat under our first-past-the-post
electoral system. In conventional terms, a UKIP vote will be a wasted vote. What
is more, most UKIP voters are on the Right and know their votes may deprive the
Conservatives of gains and thus lead to a hung Parliament rather than an
outright Tory majority.

This in turn could result in a Labour-Liberal regime that continues surrendering
to the European Union. Those intending to vote UKIP understand this but it does
not deter them.

Since his capitulation over the Lisbon Treaty, they do not regard David
Cameron's Tories any more favourably than the other Westminster parties. They
have coined a collective term for all three: the LibLabCon.

And when UKIP supporters see the tentacles of Europe behind most unwelcome
political developments, it is difficult to disagree. Take a few recent examples.
British teenagers are losing out on university places because EU rules require
students from elsewhere in Europe to be accepted (and subsidised) on exactly the
same basis as our own. This is largely one-way traffic as few British teenagers
go to study in continental Europe.

Then there is the Romanian family who tried to steal a British man's house but
are entitled to remain in the UK on benefits because Romania is in the EU. And
what about the Portuguese man here on benefits and entitled to be paid child
benefit for children who reside in Portugal? European law again.

UKIP under Lord Pearson has set out a broader agenda that appeals to many people
but is based on ideas that none of the big parties will embrace. These include
the return of grammar schools, a flat tax, a freeze on immigration and
scepticism about global warming.

Instead of smearing UKIP supporters as "fruitcakes and closet racists", Cameron
would be better advised to politely ask them to lend him their votes in the
common cause of riddin g Britain of Gordon Brown.

In the film The Others, the family that thinks it is being haunted eventually
discovers an awful truth: its own members are the ghosts and those it thought
came from beyond the grave are the rightful inhabitants of the house.

If "The Others" in British politics maintain their momentum and the voting
system is changed to give them a fairer chance, the leaderships of the big three
Westminster parties may one day have to face a similar reality.

LOAD-DATE: March 28, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              25 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 27, 2010 Saturday

National: Simon Hoggart's week: The 'little pot of money' problem

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 938 words


Listening to Geoff Hoon on the Today programme yesterday, I was reminded of
another laid-back, middle-of-the-road politician from the past: the late Reggie
Maudling, a former home secretary who lost his job because of his involvement
with John Poulson, the corrupt builder. Maudling, once seen as a future Tory
leader, was also rather miffed. All he had wanted was "a little pot of money" to
see him through his old age.

I fear that's the problem. Any conscientious MP works round the clock. But, as
well as their constituents, they meet people who have piles of loot, houses in
France, people who wear gorgeous suits and drive fabulous cars, and they reflect
that they have worked just as hard for comparatively pitiful sums. Surely they
can now receive what's due to them - in arrears, you might say. And, as Hoon
said, they see the fate of others. Many ex-MPs, including ministers, really do
drift from one ill-paid job to another. I don't excuse Hoon's position at all,
but I can see how he got there.

Mind you, he lost me when he was asked if he thought his expulsion from the
party was revenge for the failed January coup against Gordon Brown. "Oh, I don't
think anyone would be so petty," he said. Where has he been? Would you pay
£3,000 a day for someone whose judgment was clearly so wrong?

Compared with Ukip, the Labour party is as placid as a Buddhist ashram. I have
been, somewhat to my surprise, greatly enjoying Fighting Bull, the memoirs of
Nigel Farage, until recently Ukip's leader. The book is very funny, often
written in sulphuric acid, mostly when describing his colleagues, such as the
hilarious Robert Kilroy-Silk. His descriptions of the self-indulgent, atrophied,
bureaucracy-crazed, gourmandising, feeble and febrile workings of the European
parliament are terrific. And I liked his account of arriving there:

"My first live media interview was with Phil Hornby of Meridian TV. 'Well,
Nigel,' he said, 'you said you'd do it and you've done it. From now on it's
going to be endless lunches, lavish dinners, and champagne receptions. Will you
be corrupted by the lifestyle?'

"'No,' I told him with a shrug and a grin. 'I've always lived like that.' "

Another, stranger book is Peter Hitchens's Rage Against God, which is for the
most part a believer's riposte to the book by his atheist brother, Christopher
Hitchens, God Is Not Great. Peter is not helped by some sloppy editing; in his
discussion of Richard Dawkins's view that bringing a child up within a religion
is a form of child abuse, he asks whether he means this should bring upon
parents "total pubic disgrace," which is unfortunate.

Reading the book is a weird experience - it appears that the existence of God is
not to be determined by scientific observation, or even by faith. It depends on
a far greater issue, the struggle between the two Hitchens brothers. If only,
one felt, Milton were alive to record that battle in an epic poem.

We went to a wedding last weekend, the first I have

attended with a comedy registrar.

He gravely read out the banns, then added: "I think I saw a couple of smiles,
there, David!"

When it came to the vows, he said to the groom: "You get to go first - maybe for
the last time!" And when the bride fluffed her lines slightly, he twinkled:
"Nearly caught you out there!"

Actually it worked. It was a relief from the normal sober, serious, prune-faced
air adopted by most registrars, which contrasts with the fact that they spend
their Saturdays churning out ritual like so many sausages.

The reception was at a golf club. I am a connoisseur of the rules these places
revel in, which are usually pedantic, all-encompassing and cover every available
surface.

This was no exception. "No top coats in the bar. Children may not operate the
controls of the TV. Flat roof surfaces are strictly out of bounds. Mobile phones
may only be used in a medical emergency. Matches may commence from the first
tee, only if there are no matches in the roundhouse intending to continue from
the first tee, and the first hole is clear."

Work that one out if you can.

"Only recognised golf shoes may be worn." ("I say, I recognise those golf shoes!
Did you take them from my locker, you blackguard?") Clothing is a tremendous
problem. Men may not wear collarless shirts, shirts outside trousers, combat
trousers, trousers with patch pockets, or denim of any kind. "If golf clothes
must be worn in the bar, they must not be dirty, or wet, including from
perspiration. Peaked caps, if worn, must have the peak at the front."

Some of these rules are obviously common courtesy, although I'm puzzled why
golfers seem to need to have their faces rubbed in them so thoroughly. And why,
since the Gettysburg address was only 246 words, do the regulations for the use
of golf buggies run to at least twice that length?

Since the Guardian bought the Observer in 1993, there's been, every year or so,
a gathering of old Observer hands. It was organised by a much-loved secretary,
Gritta Weil, but she died last year and this week's party was in her honour. It
was the last, so like so many sad and nostalgic occasions, it was exceedingly
jolly.

Quite a few of the paper's old stars - Clive James, John Cole, Julian Barnes -
couldn't make it. But there were Katharine Whitehorn, Jane Bown, Mark Frankland,
Neal Ascherson, Patrick Bishop, Alexander Frater, Michael Frayn, William Keegan,
Hugh McIlvanney, Robin Lustig, Donald Trelford and many others, for whose
omission I should now apologise. I felt rather proud to have been of their
number for a spell, and quite misty-eyed.

Captions:

Robert Kilroy-Silk: as described by Nigel Farage, his antics are hilarious

LOAD-DATE: March 29, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              26 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 26, 2010 Friday

EU PLAN TO CONTROL BRITAIN'S ECONOMY

LENGTH: 483 words


EUROPEAN leaders last night launched an audacious attempt to create a single
'economic government'.

The move came on the day they were forced to go cap in hand to the International
Monetary Fund for help with a 620billion bailout of debt-stricken Greece.

In an extraordinary statement, the EU's two powerhouses, France and Germany,
called for the bloc to be handed sweeping powers over economic policy.

These would even apply to countries such as Britain which are not in the euro.

They suggested the creation of an 'economic government of the EU' headed by
Herman Van Rompuy, the Belgian federalist plucked from obscurity last year to
become the group's first president.

Critics said the move could eventually mean the end of Britain's ability to set
its own tax and spending plans. But Downing Street appeared relaxed about the
proposals.

The attempted power grab came on the most calamitous day in the 11-year history
of the euro.

In a humiliating move, EU leaders were forced to admit they would need a '
substantial' contribution from the IMF if the Greek economy collapses. This
would threaten to bring down the euro.

Sources said the Washingtonbased IMF would be asked for 69-13 billion, dealing a
major blow to the credibility of the single currency.

The rest of the money will come from loans from other European countries,
although Downing Street insisted Britain would not be asked to stump up a penny.

Under the Franco-German plans for economic autonomy, Britain would be just one
of 27 voices at the table setting economic policy under Mr Van Rompuy, pictured
below.

If the idea gains momentum, the treaty changes required could come as soon as
next year. Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague called on Gordon Brown to
block any such move.

He said: 'While we should all work together to make Europe as economically
successful as possible, talk of economic governance should in no way restrict
Britain's ability to determine our own economic policies and the Government
should make that absolutely clear.'

He added that the Greek crisis had shown it was right to stay out of the euro. A
senior Government source said last night: 'We support stronger co-ordination of
economic policy in Europe, but there are some semantic issues here.

'No one is talking about taking powers away from member states. There is no
prospect of Mr Van Rompuy standing at the Chancellor's Despatch Box delivering
the Budget.'

But Mats Persson, director of the Open Europe think-tank, said the statement
represented 'an astonishing power grab'.

'It is a ground-breaking development which paves the way for full scale economic
federalism,' he said.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage said: 'When they cannot even deal with
the problems of Greece without resorting to outside help it is absurd to suggest
anyone is going to go along with the idea of creating an economic government of
Europe. They are living in fantasy land.'

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              27 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 26, 2010 Friday

MORE ANGUISH FOR ASHTON AS KEY AIDE QUITS

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES AND JUSTIN STARES

LENGTH: 369 words


BARONESS Ashton's reputation as the EU's foreign minister took another battering
yesterday when a senior aide mysteriously quit.

Lutz Gullner unexpectedly resigned from his well-paid post as her chief
spokesman to take up a more junior post at the European Commission.

His departure was one of two serious blows to the British politician yesterday,
as the European Parliament rejected her proposals for an EU diplomatic corp as a
'recipe for incoherence'.

The setbacks add to a hail of criticism over her fitness for the job since
taking up the role four months ago.

Critics say she is a Labour crony who was installed in a deal done behind closed
doors between Gordon Brown and other EU leaders last year.

Lady Ashton, pictured, has never held elected office, had no foreign policy
experience before she was given the post and has been mocked for her limited
language skills.

Mr Gullner initially indicated that the criticism of Lady Ashton's poor
performance was 'part' of the reason for quitting. He added: 'To do this job you
need to have a certain amount of trust.'

But he later claimed the comments had been taken out of context and insisted he
had not fallen out with Lady Ashton.

However his new post as a desk officer at the European Commission is a junior
post and he acknowledged that his old job had become 'more difficult' since she
arrived.

As Mr Gullner announced his resignation, the European Parliament rubbished Lady
Ashton's plan for setting up a staff of 3,000 European diplomats.

Members said the plan did not make the European diplomatic corp accountable to
them and would result in a 'incoherent' service.

Her blueprint would have also granted her important powers over the EU aid
budget but she now faces an uncertain bureaucratic battle to establish her
staff.

UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage said: 'It has been clear from the start
that she[Lady Ashton] is not up to the job, but in Brussels that is not a
disqualification.

'She was an extraordinary choice for the job, which is enormously powerful, and
every day she remains in it she heaps embarrassment on both herself and
Britain.'

Her office yesterday attempted to play down Mr Gullner's sudden resignation,
claiming he had secured a promotion.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              28 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fringe parties will just help Labour

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 526 words


WITH the British firstpast-the-post voting system there is at least one
guaranteed way of costing a candidate a virtually certain win. it is quite
simply to split his vote.

For example: Candidate A is almost assured of 30,000 votes. Candidate B will get
about 20,000 and Mr C something around 15,000. For A and his party that is a
pretty safe seat. in lumbers independent Mr Z who very clearly is going to
appeal to precisely the sort of voter who in a three-horse race would vote for
A. But the independent splits that vote almost down the middle.

the result is Mr B secures his 20,000 but the independent takes 12,000 from A.
Poor old A gets 18,000 and loses. Mr C gets his 15,000 and comes third. the
independent takes 12,000, comes fourth but costs the favourite a safe seat.

there are two constituencies here in the South that intrigue me. in Buckingham
we have a rock-solid tory seat now held by Mr Speaker Bercow, who has made
himself hugely unpopular. By tradition the major parties will not stand against
the Speaker. But opportunist ex-UKiP leader Nigel Farage is standing, and might
even have toppled the Speaker in his own bailiwick, the only conceivable chance
of a UKiP candidate appearing in the Commons.

NOW three more are standing as independents. There were only ever going to be
two kinds of voter - pro-Bercow and anti-Bercow. Now the anti-Bercow vote will
be split four ways and Mr Speaker is guaranteed to keep his seat.

Nearby Luton South is even more stupid. Sitting Labour MP Margaret Moran is
totally discredited after the expenses scandal and is standing down. Labour has
appointed a first-timer, a local lad. the tories have newcomer Nigel huddleston.

Luton South used to be safe tory - but that was under Margaret thatcher. with
Labour torn apart by scandal it should be ripe for the tories to claw it back.
No chance. in weighs Esther Rantzen who will definitely appeal to huddleston's
voters. So will Stephen Rhodes, also an independent but, as a close pal of tory
MP Nadine Dorries, pretty clearly a closet tory himself. And there are two
others.

Add to them Lib Dem, UKiP, Green and Labour Co-op. what a mess. the independents
are all tory clones so their efforts will ensure Luton South, despite the chaos
in Labour, stays with them.

The biggest tory vote-splitter by far is UKiP, which is now an anti-Conservative
vote-wrecker pure and simple. i calculate that about 80 per cent of UKiP voters
would have voted Conservative without a candidate and the 20 per cent real
headbangers would stay at home.

If Cameron does not make Downing Street it will be because their vote in up to
40 reclaimable seats has been split and wrecked by UKiP and a slew of others
trying (and failing) to emulate Martin Bell as tatton's Mr integrity. None of
the above shows up in those opinion polls that send our tV pundits into such a
frenzy. Personally i suspect we may have a very low poll if regiments of
traditional Labour voters say to themselves: "i can't bring myself to vote for
this bent rabble any more, nor the others, so i am going to mow the lawn." But
if you are going to vote, why waste it on self-serving little wannabes without a
hope?

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              29 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

NEW EU GESTAPO SPIES ON BRITONS;
EU snoopers 'pose threat to our freedom of speech'

BYLINE: Mark Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,4

LENGTH: 791 words


MILLIONS of Britons face being snooped on by a new European intelligence agency
which has been handed frightening powers to pry into our lives.

Europol can access personal information on anyone - including their political
opinions and sexual preferences - if it suspects, rightly or wrongly, that they
may be involved in any "preparatory act" which could lead to criminal activity.

The vagueness of the Haguebased force's remit sparked furious protests yesterday
with critics warning that the EU snoopers threaten our right to free speech.

It is understood the agency will concentrate on anyone thought "xenophobic" or
likely to commit a crime involving the environment, computers or motor vehicles.

This could include covert monitoring of people who deny the existence of climate
change or speak out on controversial issues.

Paul Nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: "I am horrified. We
thought Gordon Brown's Big Brother state was bad enough but at least we are
going to kick him out in May. These guys we cannot sack until we leave the EU."

James Welch, legal director of campaign group Liberty, said: "We have huge
concerns that Europol appears to have been given powers to hold very sensitive
information and to investigate matters that aren't even crimes in this country.
Any extension of police powers at any level needs to be properly debated and
scrutinised."

Until January 1, Europol was a police office funded by various states to help
tackle international organised crime. But it has been reborn as the official
criminal intelligence-gathering arm of the EU and Brussels has vastly increased
its powers.

It can now target more than simply organised crime and the burden of proof
required to begin monitoring an individual has been downgraded.

Europol has also been absorbed into the EU superstructure, so it will be
centrally funded, sweeping away a key check on its independence .

Campaigners last night expressed concern over the vague list of "serious crimes"
which the agency can help investigate, which include racism and xenophobia,
environmental crime and corruption. Among personal details that can be gathered
and stored are "behavioural data" including "lifestyle and routine; movements;
places frequented", tax position and profiles of DNA and voice.

Where relevant, Europol will also be able to keep data on a person's "political
opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership and data
concerning health or sex life".

Sean Gabb, director of the Libertarian Alliance, warned that it threatened our
right to free speech.

"It doesn't surprise me that Europol has been handed these rather frightening
powers," he said. "We now live in a pan-European state so it was to be expected
that it would have a federal police force with powers over us.

"There is a real danger that opposition to EU policies could make an individual
liable to arrest.

"For example, if Brussels adopts a hard-line stance on climate change, it's
conceivable that someone who broadcasts their scepticism of climate change may
be accused of committing an environmental crime because they have undermined the
EU's efforts to save mankind."

Timothy Kirkhope, Conservative leader in the European Parliament, said:
"Europol's new mandate has significantly expanded its powers. "There is a real
chance that the vague mandate will enable it to gradually extend its areas of
intervention even further."

The Home Office insisted the changes were in Britain's interests.

A spokesman said: "Europol is now in a much stronger position to better support
our fight against serious and organised crime and terrorism."

100,000 NHS STAFF CAN SEE PATIENTS' RECORDS

MORE than 100,000 non-medical NHS staff have access to confidential patient
records, the campaign group Big Brother Watch has claimed.

Hospital porters, administrators, and IT staff can all access records, it said.
The organisation, which published a report after surveying 140 trusts across the
UK, has called for tighter security measures.

The Department of Health last night strenuously denied the claims. It said new
electronic systems strictly limit access to only those directly involved in a
patient's care.

But Big Brother Watch said it had asked trusts for the numbers of staff
uninvolved with patient treatment with "immediate access" to patient files and
received the results it had published.

Spokesman Alex Deane said: "The number of non-medical personnel with access to
confidential medical records leaves the system wide open for abuse."

Q Does the EU have too much power over us?

YES: 0901 030 8346 NO: 0901 030 8347

Yes text DXFRIYEs to 80088 No text DXFRINO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              30 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NEW EU GESTAPO SPIES ON BRITONS

BYLINE: By Mark Reynolds

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 602  words


MILLIONS of Britons face being snooped on by a new European intelligence agency
which has been handed frightening powers to pry into our lives.

Europol can access personal information on anyone - including their political
opinions and sexual preferences - if it suspects, rightly or wrongly, that they
may be involved in any "preparatory act" which could lead to criminal activity.

The vagueness of the Hague based force's remit sparked furious protests
yesterday with critics warning that the EU snoopers threaten our right to free
speech.

It is understood the agency will concentrate on anyone thought "xenophobic" or
likely to commit a crime involving the environment, computers or motor vehicles.

This could include covert monitoring of people who deny the existence of climate
change or speak out on controversial issues.

Paul Nuttall, chairman of the UK Independence Party, said: "I am horrifid. We
thought Gordon Brown's Big Brother state was bad enough but at least we are
going to kick him out in May. These guys we cannot sack until we leave the EU."

James Welch, legal director of campaign group Liberty, said: "We have huge
concerns that Europol appears to have been given powers to hold very sensitive
information and to investigate matters that aren't even crimes in this country.
Any extension of police powers at any level needs to be properly debated and
scrutinised."

Until January 1, Europol was a police office funded by various states to help
tackle international organised crime.

But it has been reborn as the official criminal intelligence-gathering arm of
the EU and Brussels has vastly increased its powers.

It can now target more than simply organised crime and the burden of proof
required to begin monitoring an individual has been downgraded.

Europol has also been absorbed into the EU superstructure, so it will be
centrally funded, sweeping away a key check on its independence.

Campaigners last night expressed concern over the vague list of "serious crimes"
which the agency can help investigate, which include racism and xenophobia,
environmental crime and corruption. Among personal details that can be gathered
and stored are "behavioural data" including "lifestyle and routine; movements;
places frequented", tax position and profiles of DNA and voice.

Where relevant, Europol will also be able to keep data on a person's "political
opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs or trade union membership and data
concerning health or sex life".

Sean Gabb, director of the Libertarian Alliance, warned that it threatened our
right to free speech.

"It doesn't surprise me that Europol has been handed these rather frightening
powers, " he said. "We now live in a pan-European state so it was to be expected
that it would have a federal police force with powers over us.

"There is a real danger that opposition to EU policies could make an individual
liable to arrest.

"For example, if Brussels adopts a hard-line stance on climate change, it's
conceivable that someone who broadcasts their scepticism of climate change may
be accused of committing an environmental crime because they have undermined the
EU's efforts to save mankind."

Timothy Kirkhope, Conservative leader in the European Parliament, said:
"Europol's new mandate has significantly expanded its powers.

"There is a real chance that the vague mandate will enable it to gradually
extend its areas of intervention even further."

The Home Office insisted the changes were in Britain's interests.

A spokesman said: "Europol is now in a much stronger position to better support
our fight against serious and organised crime and terrorism."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              31 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 26, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fringe parties will just help Labour

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: COLUMNS; 13

LENGTH: 526  words


WITH the British first past-the-post voting system there is at least one
guaranteed way of costing a candidate a virtually certain win. It is quite
simply to split his vote.

For example: Candidate A is almost assured of 30,000 votes. Candidate B will get
about 20,000 and Mr C something around 15,000. For A and his party that is a
pretty safe seat. In lumbers Independent Mr Z who very clearly is going to
appeal to precisely the sort of voter who in a three-horse race would vote for
A.

But the Independent splits that vote almost down the middle.

The result is Mr B secures his 20,000 but the Independent takes 12,000 from A.
Poor old A gets 18,000 and loses. Mr C gets his 15,000 and comes third. The
Independent takes 12,000, comes fourth but costs the favourite a safe seat.

There are two constituencies here in the South that intrigue me. In Buckingham
we have a rock-solid Tory seat now held by Mr Speaker Bercow, who has made
himself hugely unpopular. By tradition the major parties will not stand against
the Speaker. But opportunist exUKIP leader Nigel Farage is standing, and might
even have toppled the Speaker in his own bailiwick, the only conceivable chance
of a UKIP candidate appearing in the Commons.

N OW three more are standing as Independents. There were only ever going to be
two kinds of voter - pro-Bercow and anti-Bercow. Now the anti-Bercow vote will
be split four ways and Mr Speaker is guaranteed to keep his seat.

Nearby Luton South is even more stupid. Sitting Labour MP Margaret Moran is
totally discredited after the expenses scandal and is standing down. Labour has
appointed a first-timer, a local lad. The Tories have newcomer Nigel Huddleston.

Luton South used to be safe Tory - but that was under Margaret Thatcher. With
Labour torn apart by scandal it should be ripe for the Tories to claw it back.
No chance. In weighs Esther Rantzen who will definitely appeal to Huddleston's
voters. So will Stephen Rhodes, also an Independent but, as a close pal of Tory
MP Nadine Dorries, pretty clearly a closet Tory himself. And there are two
others.

Add to them Lib Dem, UKIP, Green and Labour Co-op. What a mess. The Independents
are all Tory clones so their efforts will ensure Luton South, despite the chaos
in Labour, stays with them.

The biggest Tory vote-splitter by far is UKIP, which is now an anti-Conservative
vote-wrecker pure and simple. I calculate that about 80 per cent of UKIP voters
would have voted Conservative without a candidate and the 20 per cent real
headbangers would stay at home.

If Cameron does not make Downing Street it will be because their vote in up to
40 reclaimable seats has been split and wrecked by UKIP and a slew of others
trying (and failing) to emulate Martin Bell as Tatton's Mr Integrity. None of
the above shows up in those opinion polls that send our TV pundits into such a
frenzy. Personally I suspect we may have a very low poll if regiments o f
traditional Labour voters say to themselves: "I can't bring myself to vote for
this bent rabble any more, nor the others, so I am going to mow the lawn." But
if you are going to vote, why waste it on self-serving little wannabes without a
hope?

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              32 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 26, 2010 Friday

Eastern England: general election guide

BYLINE: Lewis Bastonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 611 words

ABSTRACT

Lewis Baston's guide to the regional politics of eastern England

FULL TEXT

The counties north and east of London are these days for the most part a mixture
of Conservative countryside and Labour towns, but this is only a comparatively
recent development. In 1945 Labour swept all but one seat in rural Norfolk, and
in 1966 urban  and Lowestoft stayed Tory while heavily rural  was still Labour.
In 1997 Labour's landslide reached further than ever in the towns, but in the
country the tide was less strong and receded more rapidly in 2001. In 2005 the
region was again one of Labour's worst, with the Conservatives gaining three
seats in Hertfordshire, two in Essex and Labour losing both its holdings in
Cambridgeshire ( to the Lib Dems,  to the Conservatives).

Labour's eastern seats are very vulnerable in 2010.  is on a knife-edge and the
Conservatives have gained the council for the first time - it would be
surprising if it and the clumsily named  seat did not fall to the Tories. These
are better bets for the Conservatives than some of their more traditional towns
such as  and  (Lowestoft) which as more self-contained towns may see national
swings dampened by local Labour MPs. There are few truly safe Labour seats in
the region - ,  and  have hefty majorities but then so did , lost in a
disastrous 2009 by-election. It is not impossible to imagine the party
completely wiped out, as it nearly was in 1983 and 1987.

The Liberal Democrats have made sporadic advances, and their three seats in the
region look fairly safe - ,  and , despite a change of candidate in Cambridge.
While parliamentary representation is mostly two-party, there is significant
support for the Greens and UKIP as well as the Lib Dems in eastern England. Ukip
cannot really hope for a seat, but the Greens stand a chance in , currently
represented by Brown critic Charles Clarke.

Key seat

is a traditional bellwether marginal seat - Luton as one seat or two has voted
for the winner in every election since 1931, with the exception of 1950. But it
is of note not just because it is the sort of seat the Conservatives need for a
majority, but also as a lingering reminder of the expenses crisis that laid
Westminster low in 2009 and caused the retirement of Labour MP Margaret Moran.
Her successor Gavin Shuker still faces an Independent challenge from Esther
Rantzen as well as Conservative Nigel Huddleston.

One to watch

(Canvey Island and some suburban areas west of Southend) is an oddball seat in
several ways. It was a safe Tory seat for years before swinging violently to
Labour in 1997, and then being a rare case of a Tory MP defeated in 1997
regaining the seat in 2001. However, that MP Bob Spink left the Conservative
Party in 2008 and sits as an Independent. Spink intends to contest the seat
again, and while Independents usually do not do well, it sets up an intriguing
contest with Labour's Julian Ware-Lane and the likely winner, Rebecca Harris for
the Conservatives.

Star of the future

Liz Truss is likely to will take over as Conservative MP for , following on from
Christopher Fraser who has an unenviable distinction of having represented two
separate seats for a single term in each. Truss is well-connected within the
party and the Cameron leadership and deputy director of right-of-centre think
tank Reform, but better known for occasioning the revolt of the local Tory
"Turnip Taliban". A job at the schools department beckons.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              33 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 26, 2010 Friday

West Midlands: general election guide

BYLINE: Lewis Bastonguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 651 words

ABSTRACT

Lewis Baston's guide to the regional politics of the west Midlands

FULL TEXT

The West Midlands is one of the traditional swing regions of British general
elections, with something of a tendency to produce high swings and go its own
way. In 1970 and February 1974 it was arguably decisive in first installing and
then removing the Conservatives from power. Enoch Powell's dramatic endorsement
of Labour in 1974 probably made the difference between the Tories and Labour
being the largest party in that year's hung parliament.

More recently, the West Midlands region has followed the trend a bit more
closely, with Labour gaining several traditional marginals in 1992 ( for
example) and then sweeping to victory in some of the suburbs and smaller urban
areas in the region in 1997 - David Cameron was the first Conservative candidate
to lose , for instance, since 1945. The Tories did not recover at all in 2001,
but did regain a few seats they should never have lost in 2005.

The Tory targets in 2010 come in a couple of varieties. They will want to knock
out some of Labour's cherished gains in 1997, and should manage this in  (where
Jacqui Smith did well to hang on in 2005),  (helped by boundary changes), ,  and
. If they fail in any of them it is bad news for the Conservatives. Buoyed by
some good showings in local elections and the apparent strong Midlands trend to
the right, the Tories will also target a cluster of seats in the "Black Country"
post-industrial sprawl west of Birmingham - , ,  and , . If they are really
sweeping to victory, seats like ,  and one of the Walsall divisions might fall.

The Lib Dem profile in the West Midlands has never been quite the same since
Joseph Chamberlain left the party in 1886, and is even now oddly double-sided.
They have an urban fiefdom in , plus some more rural strength to the west of the
region.  is under serious threat from the Conservatives, although the Lib Dems
must also hope that this is the year that elusive targets like  finally come
through.

Key seat

became the best-known marginal in the region when Gisela Stuart recorded
Labour's first televised gain of election night in 1997. She held on well in
2001 and 2005 despite bad local elections, in a seat where Labour had never won
before. Edgbaston contains some of the prime residential areas of the city and
the university, and stretches out to the volatile estates of Bartley Green.
Edgbaston has been represented by women since 1953, a unique record of
all-female representation (a long history of all-male representation is not such
a rare phenomenon). If the Conservatives make their anticipated gain, this will
continue, as Stuart's opponent is Deirdre Alden.

One to watch

has one of the longest Labour histories of any constituency, going back at least
to 1919 and arguably to 1906 when Josiah Wedgwood was first elected as a radical
Liberal. Despite this century of Labour representation, it looks a bit shaky
because of the apparent pro-Tory trend in the Midlands and some disastrous
Labour local election results. The seat is one of Ukip strongest areas, with the
party coming a narrow second to the Tories here in the 2009 local elections. A
Labour loss would signify a historic low for the party.

Star of the future

in Worcestershire will see political change brought about by the expenses
crisis. Julie Kirkbride was a leading Conservative casualty and to considerable
reluctance on the part of the MP and the association, she stands down. In this
safe Conservative seat her successor will be ex-banker Sajid Javid, who is set
to be the first ever Muslim Conservative MP and is highly regarded in his party.

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              34 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 26, 2010 Friday 7:11 PM GMT

Forget the idiotic cult of feminism: Daphne Park showed what a woman can achieve

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1039 words


As if the Budget was not enough, let alone the polls suggesting that against all
the odds the worst government in living memory might be returned to office, the
death of the Baroness Park of Monmouth has put out one of the lights of my
life.To read her obituary in The Daily Telegraph is to be reminded ofbetter
timesin our national life.Forget the idiotic cult of feminism and readwhat a
woman of courage, wit and resolution could achieve in years gone by. Daphne Park
was never constrained by her sex, the diminutive stature or her somewhat chaotic
childhood upbringing.

As the Telegraph records, she was one of Britain's most remarkable spies, and
achieved the highest rank in the security servicesever held by a woman.

A casual passer-by might see only a little old lady, increasingly frail in her
latter years, softly spoken and gentle, but she was made of steel. She knew a
great deal about Northern   Ireland, and what a Secretary of State for that
Province she would have made.

It was during a debate on the "peace process"and the "putting of arms beyond
use" that she observeddryly of the Commission monitoring the disarmament:"With
every respect to those most distinguished gentlemen, I doubt if most of them
could distinguish between a Kalashnikov and a vacuum cleaner"

From somewhere on the Conservative benches around her, an anonymous peer cried
out: "But I bet she could."

They do not seem to make them like Daphne Park any more. I am both proud and the
richer to have known her.

Certainly I am feeling no richer after the Budget.Only one thing stands out from
the welter of figures and dodgy statistics. The Chancellor dare not make any
substantial incease in taxation, nor any reduction in the size of his client
state. He talks loosely of "reducing the deficit", but continues to pile
updebts, incurring an ever rising bill for interest. There is only one way out
of the problems he and his predecessor have created. Reduce the debt.We cannot
afford it.

I am told that the electors would not vote for that.I am not sure that is right.
Some have faced a similar problem in their own affairs, or those of someone they
know, and they know the consequencesof continuing to borrow to pay the interest
costs of one's debts.

But what would a Conservative Chancellor do?Or for that matter a Lib Dem, UKIP,
Green or BNP one.

I suppose we will find out in due course.

Oh, "Mickypea", I did like the thought of Swindlers' List. I only wish I had
thought of it myself, but I could not quite understand what John was on about.

I correctly designated Jeremy Paxman as Mr Paxman and Lord Mandelson as
Mandelson. I explained all this before, but if John would go to his Shakespeare
he would find it has always been approriate toomit the rank of a peer, e.g.
Essex, etc. I do not know why the MoD bought American tanks, but I assume it was
for the same reason that the Americans bought a large number of armoured JCBs -
that is they were the best buy.

I have not given up on the British and nor should "meditek".He should read
Kipling.On my next blog post I think I might post "The Beginnings".

Roger Clarke is quite right.Selling assets to finance current consumption is not
a good idea. But under NuLab it is only by doing so, andby borrowing without any
plan to repay our borrowings that we are financing our country.

"locustsandwildhorses" 'and several others raised the matter of why we returned
Hong Kong Island as well as the new territories to China. "crownarmourer",
"alhamilton" and others were right. The island was simply not viable on its own.
Not least it is dependent on the mainland for it's water supply.

"Jonathanbw" wondered what would the Tories do if they gain a majority in
England, but not an overall majority because of Labour's strength in Scotland
and Wales.Well, in the past the Tories have at times had an overall majority
because of their strength in England but not a majority in Scotland or Wales.
That is the sort of thing which can happen in a United Kingdom. It is not a case
for dismembering the kingdom. Go down that path and we would have to cut up
England too. The best thing we could do is to have English legislation (or
English and Welsh legislation where appropriate) conducted by an English (and
Welsh where appropriate) Grand Committee, excluding the Scottish and Northern
Ireland MPs

I really cannot understand why "lickyalips" was upset. I did not refer to you as
"of limited intelligence". I do not use these politically correctdescriptions,
except in irony or even anger.It was "DD" who betrayed his infantile anger by
his suggestion that morons (that is those with whom he disagreed) should be
behind bars. Clearly a "hate crime" AndI reminded the poor fellow that he should
be careful lest the gods should grant his wish.

"miceal"and others should note that I did not mention Mr McGuiness, whom I am
told is a respectable democratic politican devoted to peace and
democracy.However, I repeat that SinnFein/IRA sued for peace because the IRA
terrorist organisation had been penetrated by the security services and the
Godfathers were having their collars felt.

"callmeinfidel" (and I thank him for his kind remarks) "roys91", "troilus" and
others were interested in Dunblane. The reason given for the 100-year closure
was to protect vulnerable children. There are a host of somewhat odd features of
the whole affair.I have tried without success to persuaude a newspaper to spend
some time and money on trying to get to the bottom of it. My grasp of technology
is not quite up to posting the letterI had from Lord Bach but I will take some
advice from my blog-master.

"Logz" enquired about Bilderburg. I went to one meeting. At the sessions at
which I was present there were perfectly normal discussions about European
developments.I expressed my views and was never invited again.

Finally, some one should do something about poor old "velocity".He thinks we are
all better off than we were in Thatcher's day.Has he counted his share of the
extra debt incurred in his nameby Mr Brown?Of course, ifhe is Blair or
Mandelsonor Kinnock in disguise, then for surehe is really a lot much better
off.As for the rest of us, or our children and grandchildren and generations as
yet unborn, that is a different matter.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              35 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday

BAN ON MEOW MEOW TO BE DELAYED BY EU

BYLINE: BY JAMES SLACK

LENGTH: 237 words


GORDON Brown's promise of an immediate ban on the so-called legal high
mephedrone was last night undermined by an EU directive.

Critics say that any delays mean more young people will die from taking a drug
they mistakenly consider to be safe.

The Prime Minister yesterday said the Government was 'determined to act to
prevent this evil hurting the young people of this country', following a string
of deaths linked to mephedrone, also known as meow meow.

But the UK Independence Party last night dealt a blow to Mr Brown's announcement
with the unearthing of an EU directive which will significantly slow down the
move.

Under the EU Technical Standards and Regulations Directive 98/34/EC, the
Government has to give the EU at least three months' notification before it can
change British legislation.

UKIP spokesman Nigel Farage said: 'The Government is kidding the people but it
simply can't act without an EU-enforced delay.

'This useless government needs to tell the EU to back off from controlling or
delaying British legislation.'

Mr Brown said: 'The advice is clear that just because the substance is legal, it
doesn't make it safe.

'But we are very concerned specifically about the harms of mephedrone, and the
Advisory Council on the Misuse of Drugs is considering this as an absolute
priority.'

Professor Les Iversen, the Government's chief drugs adviser, has indicated that
mephedrone is likely to be made a Class B drug.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              36 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

EU accused of meddling as it seeks to guide courts on divorce tourism

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 248 words


THE EU has been accused of planning to surreptitiously "harmonise" divorce laws
by issuing guidance for courts in each country.

Under proposals announced yesterday, domestic courts will be provided with
criteria to determine which national law should apply in cases involving couples
with links to more than one EU member state. Attempts to introduce EU-wide rules
on divorce were dropped in 2008 because of intense opposition and critics have
denounced the new plans as "further meddling" in national sovereignty.

Of a million divorces across the EU in 2007, 140,000 involved couples from
different countries.

It has resulted in a growing number of disputes about where divorce hearings
should be held - in which individuals race to get their petition lodged in the
country they believe has the most favourable laws, so called divorce tourism.

Viviane Reding, the European commissioner for justice, fundamental rights and
citizenship, has made unifying rules on divorce one of her priorities. She said
she wanted the criteria to be used initially in 10 member states including
France, Italy and Spain, before being extended to all 27 members, including
Britain. "Conflicting applicable law rules lead to legal complications and heavy
costs, making amicable and planned divorces harder," she said.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip MEP, said: "This represents a massive intrusion into
family life. The UK has its own national divorce laws and that is the way it
should remain. It is yet further meddling."

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              37 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The big EU question

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 330 words


SIR - In the extract from his new book Bad Laws (Comment, March 22), Philip
Johnston rightly fears "the insidious accretion of power to a benign and
democratic state, through the use of the legislative process to restrict what we
do and shape who we are".

We were warned of this before we joined the European Community. In his Reith
Lectures in 1972, later published as Europe: Journey to an Unknown Destination,
Andrew Shonfield described how Georges Vedel, the French European
parliamentarian, had told him: "What you British will have to learn when you are
in the Community is what it means to live inside a precisely defined legal
system. The Community is in its very essence a system of laws. Once a particular
responsibility has been transferred by law to an identified agency of the
Community, that agency does not have the right to hand it over to anyone else."

As 70 per cent of our laws come from Brussels, it is not unreasonable to see the
EU as a major part of the problem. The question is what to do about it. We could
not leave the EU without leaving the single market, which no new government
could sensibly propose against the opinion of organs of the business
establishment such as the Institute of Directors and the CBI.

The Ukip solution of a Swiss-style freetrade agreement with the EU would not
work, as it would mean losing free movement of goods, a vital feature of the
single market for all benefiting from UKEU trade. I base this view on interviews
with some 120 leading businessmen and others with knowledge of the subject.

If a Conservative government eventually considers an alternative to full EU
membership, the solution is likely to be negotiating a bilateral customs union
agreement with the EU. It would preserve free movement of goods, albeit at the
cost of staying in the EU tariff band for most merchandise trade, and could
attract the happy label: "Staying in Europe for trade". Ronald Stewart-Brown
Trade Policy Research Centre Charlbury, Oxfordshire

LOAD-DATE: March 26, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              38 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now KFC goes halal

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 113 words


BACON has been banned from 86 branches of Kentucky Fried Chicken to avoid
offending Muslim customers, it emerged yesterday.

The "halal trial" means pork or other "unlawful" meat is now off the menu.
Outlets in some areas of Britain will only sell meat that has been killed by
hand in line with Islamic dietary laws.

But the pilot project has left non-Muslim customers furious. UKIP Euro MP Paul
Nuttall said: "It is a testament to the divisions wrought on this country by the
failed creed of multiculturalism that KFC feel the need to do this."

A KFC spokeswoman said the chain acted following demand from Muslim customers,
adding: "We've only removed one product from our entire menu."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              39 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now KFC goes halal

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 113  words


BACON has been banned from 86 branches of Kentucky Fried Chicken to avoid
offending Muslim customers, it emerged yesterday.

The "halal trial" means pork or other "unlawful" meat is now off the menu.
Outlets in some areas of Britain will only sell meat that has been killed by
hand in line with Islamic dietary laws.

But the pilot project has left non-Muslim customers furious. UKIP Euro MP Paul
Nuttall said: "It is a testament to the divisions wrought on this country by the
failed creed of multiculturalism that KFC feel the need to do this."

A KFC spokeswoman said the chain acted following demand from Muslim customers,
adding: "We've only removed one product from our entire menu."

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              40 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 25, 2010 Thursday

Who deserves human rights?

BYLINE: Francesca Klugguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 2108 words

ABSTRACT

Francesca Klug: Blogging the bill of rights: Do our human rights apply in every
situation - and should the HRA be replaced by a British bill of rights?

FULL TEXT

Listening to shadow justice secretary Dominic Grieve, as I did yesterday
morning, maintain that the Tory party wants to repeal the Human Rights Act (HRA)
in order to make human rights more popular, I was reminded of an old Jewish
joke. A boy who kills his parents goes to court and pleads for mercy on the
grounds that he's an orphan. This, the joke concludes, is the definition of
"chutzpah". That was the precise word that came to mind at yesterday's Human
Rights Lawyers Association breakfast meeting.

After years of an unedifying race to the bottom between leading politicians from
both the main political parties - remember  lamenting the "human rights act
culture that has infected every part of our life" - it is more than a little
rich to cry "nothing to do with me gov - all I ever wanted was for the nation to
love human rights but unfortunately they just wouldn't get it". When  at last
year's party conference that Derbyshire police had failed to issue pictures of
two fugitive murderers because of their privacy rights under the HRA, the
Derbyshire constabulary was forced to that it had never refused to release
photographs on human rights grounds.

Contrary to what we are told, opinion surveys consistently show how popular
human rights are. A  in December 2009 found overwhelming support for the rights
in the HRA and that 96% of people believe it is important that there is a law
that protects rights and freedoms in Britain. The goal of making human rights
better understood and more widely valued is, of course, crucial. There is no
denying that the HRA was inadequately consulted upon and even more weakly
promoted (when ministers weren't directly undermining it). But it is not the
rights themselves that are in contention, rather who has access to them and
when.

This is a question the supreme court faced last week in considering whether
British soldiers should forfeit all their human rights when they are sent into
battle. The court of appeal said they shouldn't in a  who died of heatstroke in
Basra in 2003 after repeatedly telling medical staff he was feeling unwell.
Appeal court judges said that soldiers should have the benefit of the rights
guaranteed in the HRA wherever they are. Jason's mother, Catherine Smith,
strongly agreed, but the  before the supreme court last week that human rights
laws should not apply once soldiers leave their army base.

There is similar disagreement over whether the military themselves should be
held accountable for violations of the human rights of those they detain when
they are sent to fight abroad.  thought they should and made his views known in
a "massive row" with the commander of the Queen's Dragoon Guards about the
army's legal obligations in Iraq under the Geneva conventions and the European
convention on human rights (ECHR), an official inquiry learned last week. These
standards, the inquiry reportedly heard, were  to be "appropriate for
individuals locked up on a Saturday night in Brixton", but not "for detainees
arrested by the Black Watch etc following a bit of looting in Basra".

We were reminded that it is not so much the rights themselves, but who has
access to them, that is the source of so much disquiet, earlier this month when
Jon Venables, one of the murderers of the toddler James Bulger in 1993, was
after apparently breaching the terms of his licence. The vexed debate that
followed about whether our right to know his identity should over-ride his right
to life and safety was not surprising, as such moments, fraught with emotional
impact, raise fundamental questions that test the best of us. They boil down to
this: should there be an eligibility test for protection under our human rights
legislation - related to responsible behaviour, citizenship or the nature of
your job - or should it apply to everyone who lives under the jurisdiction of
the UK state? And if the answer to this question is that the whole point of
human rights is that they belong to all human beings, as many of us believe, in
what circumstances should rights be limited and to what degree? One of the
points of a bill of rights is to provide a transparent and consistent framework
to address this difficult question. It is this framework that is in play in the
current debate on whether the HRA should be scrapped and replaced by a .

I remember the first time that I was challenged as to whether the proposed HRA
would give unfettered rights to the "irredeemable" and "irresponsible". It was
at a public meeting prior to the act coming into force where a speaker suggested
we needed a bill of duties rather than a bill of rights. The tabloids were
already warning that the new act would usher in an era of unparalleled license
with headteachers unable to ban sex in schools, polygamy legalised and speeding
and parking laws overturned. In response I quoted the famous English radical
Thomas Paine, whose bestseller Rights of Man, written in 1791, reminds us that
this debate is hardly new.

He argued that calls for a "Declaration of Duties" to accompany a "Declaration
of Rights" suggested "a mind that reflected" but "erred by not reflecting far
enough." In Paine's words "A Declaration of Rights, is, by reciprocity, a
Declaration of Duties also. Whatever is my right as a man, is also the right of
another; and it becomes my duty to guarantee, as well as possess." Paine was
foreshadowing the philosopher  who later theorised that "rights are grounds of
duties in others." In other words, a society that respects fundamental human
rights can only be secured if we respect each other's rights and freedoms.
Without this insight the whole enterprise is doomed.

He did not live to see it, but Paine's broad approach to rights and duties is
embedded in all post-second world war human rights treaties that form the
backbone of most modern bills of rights around the world. While the criminal and
civil law is packed with legal duties, the HRA is one of a very few measures
which sets out our basic rights. This does not mean, of course, that rights are
absolute. The test for limiting our freedoms under the HRA, as in all modern
bills of rights, lies in the necessity to take proportionate measures to prevent
us doing harm to others or to protect the common good, not whether an individual
belongs to a particular category of people, whether convicted prisoners or
battlefield soldiers. Under this framework, rights are not contingent upon "good
behaviour", but the state has a responsibility to ensure that our at others'
expense.

This is the route to victims of crime claiming protection under the HRA as well
as defendants, as the director of Liberty, Shami Chakrabarti, amplified in the .
A  and an have used the HRA to receive compensation for inadequate investigation
or prosecution of the alleged crimes committed against them and the  have used
the act to obtain a more thorough public inquiry into their deaths. So it was
unsurprising that the European court of human rights ruled, in the case of
Thompson and Venables in 1999, that "states have a duty under the convention to
take measures for the protection of the public from violent crime" and that the
"prohibit States from subjecting a child or young person convicted of a serious
crime to an indeterminate sentence... where necessary for the protection of the
public". The court concluded that their right to a fair trial was violated, not
because the sentence was too long, but because the home secretary, who was
clearly not independent from the executive, had fixed their tariff or minimum
time in detention.

This kind of sober judgment is lost in the cacophony that surrounds such
difficult cases. Both the government and the opposition have sought to give the
impression that they will to remedy a responsibilities deficit in our society to
ensure we deal with "the wrongs against society - not just the rights of their
perpetrators". "Rights and responsibilities" was of course Tony Blair's mantra
and for his swan song in May 2007 he reiterated that "the civil liberties of the
suspect" were being put "first" by the courts.  against the HRA has been that it
"has helped to create a culture of rights without responsibilities." The Brown
government, while pledging to maintain the HRA, made the case for a
non-justiciable bill of rights and responsibilities (a more woolly concept than
duties) in its green paper last year to "remind people of the importance of
individual responsibility and to give this greater prominence".

In January that "what we need is a modern British bill of rights which clearly
sets out people's rights and responsibilities, and strengthens our hand in the
fight against terrorism and crime." Both parties have acknowledged that in
practice they are unlikely to go beyond the symbolic and use the vehicle of a
bill of rights to introduce a legally enforceable catalogue of responsibilities
or duties that would impact on us all. The real target in this debate is those
deemed unworthy or ineligible to claim legal entitlements under the HRA.
However, and here is the rub, this still "leaves scope for interpretation
clauses,"  has said, "to provide for the better balancing of rights where the
assertion of a right undermines the rights of others." Given that the HRA
already allows - indeed requires - rights to be limited to protect others and
deter crime we are left wondering what Grieve means when he said, in the same
speech, that such "interpretation clauses" should "give a more detailed guide
consonant with our own legal and political traditions than does the ECHR text
itself as to the weight to be given" to each of the articles.

Some of us asked Grieve to clarify the effects of these proposed interpretation
clauses at yesterday's meeting. I am not sure we were any the wiser. The purpose
appears to be to free our judges from the approach of the Strasbourg court (they
are already free from slavishly following the case law) where rights are not
absolute. The text of the ECHR could still be used, Grieve says (although he
suggests this is only his personal preference, not necessarily his party's). But
it is not at all clear that the human rights framework for balancing or limiting
rights - based on preventing harm rather than creating eligibility criteria -
will survive these suggested "interpretation clauses".

We are not told who will lose out from such changes but here are some clues. In
a recent planning policy green paper the Conservatives committed to repealing
the HRA so that travellers can be more easily evicted. David Cameron has
promised that "a modern British bill of rights" will "guide the judiciary and
the government in applying human rights law when the lack of responsibility of
some individuals threatens the rights of others." Dominic Grieve has pointed to
a woman and her son whose deportation to Lebanon was prevented by our courts on
the grounds that she would lose custody of her young child to a formerly violent
father he had never met, as the  that could be affected by a bill of rights with
"interpretation clauses" that are more "consonant with our own legal and
political traditions".

Some readers of this piece might welcome a new approach to deciding such issues.
But those who are seeking a bill of rights which builds on the human rights
framework will be very wary. This goes to the heart of the question: why do the
Conservatives (alongside Ukip and the BNP) feel it necessary to repeal the HRA
when there is no shortage of  that leaves the HRA intact or incorporates it
wholesale? Grieve's Liberal Democrat counterpart, David Howarth, speaking to the
same audience last week ,reaffirmed his party's support for the HRA, alongside
any additional bill of rights. He also commented on the need to make rights
popular. But he distinguished between "reconciling human rights with the front
page agendas of the Sun and Daily Mail" and making human rights better
understood and appreciated as the bedrock values of our democracy that can
benefit us all.

LOAD-DATE: March 25, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              41 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

FOREIGN BENEFITS SCANDAL;
We must pay for immigrants' families who don't live here EXCLUSIVE 'Bonkers!
We're in debt yet we pay these benefi ts'

BYLINE: Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 865 words


A LANDMARK ruling that allows jobless migrants to claim benefits in Britain for
their children living in their home country sparked outrage last night.

Critics warned the judgment could "open the door" to thousands of benefits
tourists abusing generous payouts in Britain. In yesterday's High Court ruling -
showing how EU law is taking precedence over the UK's - a Portuguese national
living in Britain won a legal battle for child benefit for his two daughters in
his home country despite no longer working and claiming incapacity benefit here.

Jose Lopes Ruas, who arrived from Portugal in 2000 with his wife and youngest
daughter, was refused child benefit in 2006 for his two eldest daughters then 18
and 14.

At the time, he was also claiming disability allowance and income support after
an accident in a factory in 2004.

But after a lengthy court battle, three top judges blocked an appeal by HM
Revenue and Customs to prove he was not eligible for the money. Lawyers for Mr
Ruas argued EU rules allowed any worker from an EU country who was employed or
who received "social assistance" to claim child benefits even if the child lives
abroad.

Matthew Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This opens
the door to a huge bill for taxpayers which is utterly unjustified.

"Now there are even greater incentives for people to come to Britain trying to
take advantage of the bene-fits system. Time and again it seems these judgments
go against the best interests of hard-pressed British taxpayers."

The Government has previously faced criticism for paying out benefits to 50,000
children who live abroad while their parents work in the UK, costing £24million
a year.

That allows children in countries including Poland, Lithuania and Latvia to
receive benefits from British taxpayers.

The handouts have been described as a "kick in the teeth" to hard-working
Britons who are subsidising them.

Suspended

The loophole in EU legislation goes against UK law, which states: "No child
benefit shall be payable in respect of a child for a week unless he is in Great
Britain in that week."

Jason Coppel, barrister acting for HMRC, said Mr Ruas's claim for child benefit
should fail because he "cannot be identified under the scheme as an employed
person because he is not currently...an employed earner."

But in a judgment handed down by Lord Justice Carnwath, Lord Justice Moore-Bick
and Lord Justice Etherton at the Court of Appeal, the judges referred to the
European Commission regulations and said: "Article 74 provides a right to family
benefits in the member state in which the claimant is claiming unemployment
benefit, regardless of whether the claimant or members of his family are present
in that state."

In a statement released after the hearing, Mr Ruas's solicitor Gareth Mitchell,
from Pierce Glynn said: "The EU rules that Mr Ruas has relied on also benefit
the 1.5 million UK workers who live outside the UK and elsewhere in the EU. The
EU rules say that where parents go abroad to work and children stay behind, it
should be the country in which the parents are working that should pay child
benefit.

"The EU rules expressly prevent workers from claiming child benefit in two
places at once. Mr Ruas continues to receive child benefit even though he no
longer works only because he was permanently incapacitated following a serious
accident in the UK factory in which he was working."

But Gerard Batten, UKIP MEP for London warned more EU nationals would come to
the UK, which ranks as one of the highest paying countries in Europe for child
benefit. In a comparison of 22 countries by the Department for Work and
Pensions, Portugal was described as a "laggard" in child benefit packages.

Mr Batten said: "We were already paying child benefit for children living
abroad, and now EU citizens themselves on benefits in the UK can claim child
benefit for children they left at home.

"We already provide an international health service that treats people from all
over the world, and now we will provide an international benefits service. Many
EU citizens will naturally gravitate to those countries with the most generous
benefits systems - especially Britain. How can a country that is £1.5trillion in
debt pay benefits to the children of non-citizens who live abroad? It's
completely bonkers."

A spokeswoman for HMRC said the department would consider further action and has
suspended child bene-fit payments until the dispute is resolved.

She said: "We are considering the implications of this judgment."

OPINION: PAGE 12

Q Should benefits to immigrants be stopped?

YES: 0901 030 8342

Yes text DXWEDYES to 80088

NO: 0901 030 8343

No text DXWEDNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight.

Texts cost 25p plus network operator rates

CHILD BENEFIT BY NUMBERS

Over £24million per year paid by the British taxpayer to children living in
other EU countries

50,000 children abroad are eligible for

'We've already got an international health service. Now it's benefits' MEP
Gerard Batten

UK benefits UK CHILD BENEFIT RATE Jan 2009 Apr 2010 Eldest child only 50,000
50,000 £20.00 £20.30 Other children £13.20 £13.40 'Bonkers! We're in debt yet we
pay these benefits'

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              42 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 24, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FOREIGN BENEFITS SCANDAL

BYLINE: By Donna Bowater

SECTION: NEWS; 01

LENGTH: 761  words


We must pay for immigrants' families who don't live here

A LANDMARK ruling that allows jobless migrants to claim benefits in Britain for
their children living in their home country sparked outrage last night.

Critics warned the judgment could "open the door" to thousands of benefits
tourists abusing generous payouts in Britain.

In yesterday's High Court ruling - showing how EU law is taking precedence over
the UK's - a Portuguese national living in Britain won a legal battle for child
benefit for his two daughters in his home country despite no longer working and
claiming incapacity benefit here.

Jose Lopes Ruas, who arrived from Portugal in 2000 with his wife and youngest
daughter, was refused child benefit in 2006 for his two eldest daughters then 18
and 14.

At the time, he was also claiming disability allowance and income support after
an accident in a factory in 2004.

But after a lengthy court battle, three top judges blocked an appeal by HM
Revenue and Customs to prove he was not eligible for the money. Lawyers for Mr
Ruas argued EU rules allowed any worker from an EU country who was employed or
who received "social assistance" to claim child benefits even if the child lives
abroad.

Matthew Elliott, chief executive of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "This opens
the door to a huge bill for taxpayers which is utterly unjustified.

"Now there are even greater incentives for people to come to Britain trying to
take advantage of the benefits system. Time and again it seems these judgments
go against the best interests of hard-pressed British taxpayers."

The Government has previously faced criticism for paying out benefits to 50,000
children who live abroad while their parents work in the UK, costing GBP
24million a year.

That allows children in countries including Poland, Lithuania and Latvia to
receive benefits from British taxpayers. The handouts have been described as a
"kick in the teeth" to hard-working Britons who are subsidising them.

The loophole in EU legislation goes against UK law, which states: "No child
benefit shall be payable in respect of a child for a week unless he is in Great
Britain in that week."

Jason Coppel, barrister acting for HMRC, said Mr Ruas's claim for child benefit
should fail because he "cannot be identified under the scheme as an employed
person because he is not currently. . . an employed earner."

But in a judgment handed down by Lord Justice Carnwath, Lord Justice Moore-Bick
and Lord Justice Etherton at the Court of Appeal, the judges referred to the
European Commission regulations and said: "Article 74 provides a right to family
benefits in the member state in which the claimant is claiming unemployment
benefit, regardless of whether the claimant or members of his family are present
in that state."

In a statement released after the hearing, Mr Ruas's solicitor Gareth Mitchell,
from Pierce Glynn said: "The EU rules that Mr Ruas has relied on also benefit
the 1.5 million UK workers who live outside the UK and elsewhere in the EU. The
EU rules say that where parents go abroad to work and children stay behind, it
should be the country in which the parents are working that should pay child
benefit.

"The EU rules expressly prevent workers from claiming child benefit in two
places at once. Mr Ruas continues to receive child benefit even though he no
longer works only because he was permanently incapacitated following a serious
accident in the UK factory in which he was working."

But Gerard Batten, UKIP MEP for London warned more EU nationals would come to
the UK, which ranks as one of the highest paying countries in Europe for child
benefit.

In a comparison of 22 countries by the Department for Work and Pensions,
Portugal was described as a "laggard" in child benefit packages.

Mr Batten said: "We were already paying child benefit for children living
abroad, and now EU citizens themselves on benefits in the UK can claim child
benefit for children they left at home.

"We already provide an international health service that treats people from all
over the world, and now we will provide an international benefits service.

Many EU citizens will naturally gravitate to those countries with the most
generous benefits systems - especially Britain. How can a country that is GBP
1.5trillion in debt pay benefits to the children of non-citizens who live
abroad? It's completely bonkers."

A spokeswoman for HMRC said the department would consider further action and has
suspended child benefit payments until the dispute is resolved.

She said: "We are considering the implications of this judgment."

LOAD-DATE: March 24, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              43 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

£2.1m bill for each Euro MP...how can they be worth that?

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 738 words


EACH Euro MP will cost taxpayers a massive £2.1 million next year, figures from
Brussels revealed last night.

And the overall cost of the bloated Euro Parliament will rocket by 6.5 per cent
to an eye-watering £2.6billion, according to a draft budget for 2010.

It means Euro MPs are costing more than four times their counterparts at
Westminster. And the inflation-busting budget rise comes despite continuing
allegations of widespread fraud and waste in Brussels and Strasbourg.

European Union officials claim the extra cash is needed because of an "increased
workload" brought by the controversial Lisbon Treaty, which came into force last
year without a referendum for British voters.

Angry critics of the EU gravy train last night savaged the latest leap in the
already hugely expensive Parliament.

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The costs of Euro MPs are
obscene when you consider no one supports their existence. The Parliament pours
vast amounts of money down the drain and still fails to excite, inspire or
represent the people.

"The anger at Westminster MPs was absolutely justified, but MEPs deserve even
more criticism for their wasteful, self-indulgent ways."

Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said: "This is a huge rise in these
tough economic times when governments across Europe are trying to find ways to
save money. Taxpayers are being forced to tighten their belts. Euro MPs should
do the same."

The draft budget shows the assembly will cost an estimated £1.72billion next
year, including salaries, buildings, furniture, transport and other costs
involved in a Parliament that meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg.

In addition, administrative costs are set to soar by a mighty 20 per cent to £14
million. The total bill for the salaries, expenses and pensions of the 736 Euro
MPs is due to rise by 4.5 per cent to £216million. And the bill for the army of
bureaucrats is to rocket by 9.6 per cent to £542 million. Other expenditure
includes a new "visitors' centre" costing nearly £3million in its first year,
while a total of £8 million is to be spent on its own internet-based TV channel.
And the Parliament is determined to open a new House of European History museum
by 2014 to "promote an awareness of European identity".

Tory Euro MP Richard Ashworth, a member of the Parliament's budgets committee,
said: "Gordon Brown was warned that Lisbon would make the EU more expensive yet
he forced it through regardless and now we are seeing the consequences. "

UK Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "The European institutions
are preaching economy for all except themselves. In difficult financial times,
taxpayers are expected to dig even deeper to finance vanity projects, private
cars and more junkets. How much more gravy does Europe want on the gravy train?"

The cost increases will be an intense embarrassment for Mr Brown, who is due to
attend an EU summit in Brussels later this week. Downing Street 23n04mpgraphic
insists the Prime Minister will oppose the budget increase, although he is
almost certain to be overruled.

A British diplomat said: "It does nothing to counter the unfair image that Euro
MPs are just riding the gravy train to Brussels. This isn't the moment to fatten
up allowances."

The expected entry of Croatia, with an extra 62 bureaucrats, into the EU was
also increasing bureaucracy and translation costs.

And an extra 18 Euro MPs are due to join under the Lisbon Treaty. A European
Parliament source said: "We cover 27 countries and work in 23 languages."

The 6.5 per cent rise breaches a 22-year-old pledge by the Parliament that the
cost of Euro MPs would never exceed a fifth of the EU's overall budget.

The basic salary of a Euro MP is £82,915 a year, compared with the £64,766 of a
Commons MP. Euro MPs can also rake in £360,000 in expenses.

Q Does EU cost British taxpayers too much?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088 No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

ANNUAL COST FOR EACH EURO MP

£1,113,903 Salaries, expenses and pensions for Euro-MPs, their staff, other
European Parliamentary officials

£424,974 Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure

£191,496 Meetings, conferences, publications and archiving £351,864 Quangos and
other external institutions

£26,638 Other expenditure and reserves

TOTAL £2,108,875

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              44 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                    Scotland

£2.1m bill for each Euro MP... how can they be worth that?

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 577 words


EACH Euro MP will cost taxpayers a massive £2.1 million next year, figures from
Brussels revealed last night.

And the overall cost of the bloated Euro Parliament will rocket by 6.5 per cent
to an eyewatering £2.6 billion, according to a draft budget for 2010.

So Euro MPs are costing more than four times their Westminster counterparts. And
the inflationbusting budget rise comes despite continuing allegations of
widespread fraud and waste in Brussels and Strasbourg.

European Union officials claim the extra cash is needed because of a bigger
workload brought by the controversial Lisbon Treaty.

Angry critics of the EU gravy train last night savaged the latest leap in the
already hugely expensive Parliament. Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance,
said:

"The costs of Euro MPs are obscene. The Parliament pours vast amounts of money
down the drain and still fails to excite, inspire or represent the people.

"The anger at MPs was absolutely justified, but MEPs deserve even more criticism
for their wasteful, self-indulgent ways."

Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said: "This is a huge rise in tough
economic times when governments across Europe are trying to find ways to save
money. Taxpayers are being forced to tighten their belts. Euro MPs should do the
same."

The draft budget shows the assembly will cost an estimated £1.72billion next
year, including salaries, buildings, furniture, transport and other costs
involved in a Parliament that meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg.
Administrative costs are set to soar by a mighty 20 per cent to £14 million.

The bill for salaries, expenses and pensions of the 736 Euro MPs is due to rise
by 4.5 per cent to £216 million. And the bill for the army of bureaucrats is to
rocket by 9.6 per cent to £542 million.

Other expenditure includes a new visitors' centre costing nearly £3 million in
its first year, while £8 million is to be spent on its own internet-based TV
channel.

Tory Euro MP Richard Ashworth said: "Gordon Brown was warned that Lisbon would
make the EU more expensive yet he forced it through regardless. "

UK Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "How much more gravy does
Europe want on the gravy train?" The cost rises will be an intense embarrassment
for Mr Brown, who is due at an EU summit in Brussels this week.

Downing Street insists the Prime Minister will oppose the budget rise but he is
almost certain to be overruled. The expected entry of Croatia, with an extra 62
bureaucrats, will also add to costs. And an extra 18 Euro MPs are due to join
under the Lisbon Treaty.

The 6.5 per cent rise breaches a 22-year-old pledge by the Parliament that the
cost of Euro MPs would never exceed a fifth of the EU's overall budget.

The basic salary of a Euro MP is £82,915 a year, compared with the £64,766 of a
Commons MP. Euro MPs can also rake in £360,000 in expenses.

Q Does EU cost British taxpayers too much?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088 No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

ANNUAL COST FOR EACH EURO MP

£1,113,903 Salaries, expenses and pensions for Euro-MPs, their staff, other
European Parliamentary officials

£424,974 Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure

£191,496 Meetings, conferences, publications and archiving £351,864 Quangos and
other external institutions

£26,638 Other expenditure and reserves

TOTAL £2,108,875

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              45 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Fight for Olympic tickets;
Fury as EU ruling means British taxpayers face a scramble

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 564 words


CRITICS hit out last night at the London Olympics organisers as it emerged that
75 per cent of tickets allocated to the British public for the 2012 Games will
be open to anyone living in the European Union.

Games chiefs announced yesterday eight million tickets will go on sale but there
are growing fears that not enough of them will go to British sports fans.

Under EU legislation tickets made available to British fans in an online ballot
must also be on offer to residents from across Europe.

Three in four tickets will be sold in the ballot - with the rest earmarked for
the "Olympic family" - VIPs, sponsors, athletes' friends and family as well as
official broadcasters.

Around one per cent of tickets have been set aside for "prestige hospitality"
for the Games, which will cost at least £9.3billion. A further three per cent
will go via other travel packages.

Officials confirmed the 75 per cent of tickets allocated to the British public
will be open to anyone living in the EU.

Boxing promoter Frank Maloney, who is standing for UKIP in Barking, said: "Who
does Brussels think is paying for the Olympics? We should have a system that
British taxpayers get reductions, not having to fight with any European for the
privilege of seeing the games."

Liberal Democrat Olympic spokeswoman Dee Doocey called for an exemption to the
legislation, saying: "The law is often used as an excuse to do nothing but it
would be perfectly possible to offer free tickets to those who will have
basically been living on a building site for seven years." Games chiefs
yesterday drafted in TV presenter Christine Bleakley - who arrived at Trafalgar
Square in a pair of black 5.5in heels - to launch its new ticket website.

She lined up with fellow The One Show host Adrian Chiles and Olympic gold
medallist Christine Ohuruogu.

Organisers kicked off a year-long build up to tickets going on sale by
announcing they had created an extra 300,000. Members of the public can register
their interest in particular events through the new website.

Organisers said 40,000 signed up in the first four hours. People who register
will be able to enter a public ballot more quickly when it opens next spring -
although they are not guaranteed to win a place at an Olympic venue.

London 2012 chief executive Paul Deighton said: "The ballot in 2011 will, under
EU law, be available to everyone across the European Union."

"It is certainly our expectation that the majority of that 75 per cent in the
ballot will absolutely stay within the UK. All our marketing efforts will be
solely within the UK."

It looks unlikely organisers will be able to fulfil a pledge that all but two
million tickets would cost less than £50.

Mr Deighton said ticket prices had still not been finalised but said the British
public were "in with a great chance of getting a ticket to the Games".

He added: "We will stand by what we have always said about pricing and that is
there will be millions of affordable tickets available to the British public."

Last month the Daily Express told how a multi-million-pound contract to
manufacture official souvenirs for the Games had been awarded to a Chinese
company. Beijing-based Honav won the licence for making Olympic badges.

The Chinese beat competition from 26 firms - most British. The contract was
awarded despite a Government pledge to shower UK firms with "Olympic gold" after
landing the 2012 Games.

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Golden girls Christine Bleakley and Christine Ohuruogu yesterday
Picture: JONATHAN BUCKMASTER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              46 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

£2.1m bill for each Euro MP...how can they be worth that?

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 736 words


EACH Euro MP will cost taxpayers a massive £2.1 million next year, figures from
Brussels revealed last night.

And the overall cost of the bloated Euro Parliament will rocket by 6.5 per cent
to an eye-watering £2.6 billion, according to a draft budget for 2010.

It means Euro MPs are costing more than four times their counterparts at
Westminster. And the inflation-busting budget rise comes despite continuing
allegations of widespread fraud and waste in Brussels and Strasbourg.

European Union officials claim the extra cash is needed because of an "increased
workload" brought by the controversial Lisbon Treaty, which came into force last
year without a referendum for British voters.

Angry critics of the EU gravy train last night savaged the latest leap in the
already hugely expensive Parliament.

Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "The costs of Euro MPs are
obscene when you consider no one supports their existence. The Parliament pours
vast amounts of money down the drain and still fails to excite, inspire or
represent the people.

"The anger at Westminster MPs was absolutely justified, but MEPs deserve even
more criticism for their wasteful, self-indulgent ways."

Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said: "This is a huge rise in these
tough economic times when governments across Europe are trying to find ways to
save money. Taxpayers are being forced to tighten their belts.

Euro MPs should do the same."

The draft budget shows the assembly will cost an estimated £1.72billion next
year, including salaries, buildings, furniture, transport and other costs
involved in a Parliament that meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg.

In addition, administrative costs are set to soar by a mighty 20 per cent to £14
million. The total bill for the salaries, expenses and pensions of the 736 Euro
MPs is due to rise by 4.5 per cent to £216 million. And the bill for the army of
bureaucrats is to rocket by 9.6 per cent to £542 million. Other expenditure
includes a new "visitors' centre" costing nearly £3 million in its first year,
while a total of £8 million is to be spent on its own internet-based TV channel.
And the Parliament is determined to open a new House of European History museum
by 2014 to "promote an awareness of European identity".

Tory Euro MP Richard Ashworth, a member of the Parliament's budgets committee,
said: "Gordon Brown was warned that Lisbon would make the EU more expensive yet
he forced it through regardless and now we are seeing the consequences. "

UK Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "The European institutions
are preaching economy for all except themselves. In difficult financial times,
taxpayers are expected to dig even deeper to finance vanity projects, private
cars and more junkets. How much more gravy does Europe want on the gravy train?"

The cost increases will be an intense embarrassment for Mr Brown, who is due to
attend an EU summit in Brussels later this week. Downing Street insists the
Prime Minister will oppose the budget increase, although he is almost certain to
be overruled.

A British diplomat said: "It does nothing to counter the unfair image that Euro
MPs are just riding the gravy train to Brussels. This isn't the moment to fatten
up allowances."

The expected entry of Croatia, with an extra 62 bureaucrats, into the EU was
also increasing bureaucracy and translation costs. And an extra 18 Euro MPs are
due to join under the Lisbon Treaty. A European Parliament source said: "We
cover 27 countries and work in 23 languages."

The 6.5 per cent rise breaches a 22-year-old pledge by the Parliament that the
cost of Euro MPs would never exceed a fifth of the EU's overall budget. The
basic salary of a Euro MP is £82,915 a year, compared with the £64,766 of a
Commons MP. Euro MPs can also rake in £360,000 in expenses.

Q Does EU cost British taxpayers too much?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088 No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

ANNUAL COST FOR EACH EURO MP

£1,113,903 Salaries, expenses and pensions for Euro-MPs, their staff, other
European Parliamentary officials

£424,974 Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure

£191,496 Meetings, conferences, publications and archiving

£351,864 Quangos and other external institutions

£26,638 Other expenditure and reserves

TOTAL £2,108,875

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              47 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

£2.1m bill for each Euro MP...how can they be worth that?

BYLINE: Macer Hall

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 578 words


EACH Euro MP will cost taxpayers a massive £2.1 million next year, figures from
Brussels revealed last night.

And the overall cost of the bloated Euro Parliament will rocket by 6.5 per cent
to an eyewatering £2.6 billion, according to a draft budget for 2010.

So Euro MPs are costing more than four times their Westminster counterparts. And
the inflationbusting budget rise comes despite continuing allegations of
widespread fraud and waste in Brussels and Strasbourg.

European Union officials claim the extra cash is needed because of a bigger
workload brought by the controversial Lisbon Treaty.

Angry critics of the EU gravy train last night savaged the latest leap in the
already hugely expensive Parliament. Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance,
said: "The costs of Euro MPs are obscene. The Parliament pours vast amounts of
money down the drain and still fails to excite, inspire or represent the people.

"The anger at MPs was absolutely justified, but MEPs deserve even more criticism
for their wasteful, self-indulgent ways."

Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said: "This is a huge rise in tough
economic times when governments across Europe are trying to find ways to save
money. Taxpayers are being forced to tighten their belts. Euro MPs should do the
same."

The draft budget shows the assembly will cost an estimated £1.72billion next
year, including salaries, buildings, furniture, transport and other costs
involved in a Parliament that meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg.
Administrative costs are set to soar by 20 per cent to £14 million.

The bill for salaries, expenses and pensions of the 736 Euro MPs is due to rise
by 4.5 per cent to £216 million. And the bill for the army of bureaucrats is to
rocket by 9.6 per cent to £542 million.

Other expenditure includes a new visitors' centre costing nearly £3 million in
its first year, while £8 million is to be spent on its own internet-based TV
channel.

Tory Euro MP Richard Ashworth said: "Gordon Brown was warned that Lisbon would
make the EU more expensive yet he forced it through regardless. " UK
Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "How much more gravy does
Europe want on the gravy train?"

The cost rises will be an intense embarrassment for Mr Brown, who is due at an
EU summit in Brussels this week. Downing Street insists the Prime Minister will
oppose the budget rise but he is almost certain to be overruled.

23n04mpgraphic The expected entry of Croatia, with an extra 62 bureaucrats, will
also add to costs. And an extra 18 Euro MPs are due to join under the Lisbon
Treaty.

The 6.5 per cent rise breaches a 22-year-old pledge by the Parliament that the
cost of Euro MPs would never exceed a fifth of the EU's overall budget. The
basic salary of a Euro MP is £82,915 a year, compared with the £64,766 of a
Commons MP. Euro MPs can also rake in £360,000 in expenses.

Q Does EU cost British taxpayers too much?

YES: 0901 030 8340 NO: 0901 030 8341

Yes text DXTUEYES to 80088 No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

ANNUAL COST FOR EACH EURO MP

£1,113,903 Salaries, expenses and pensions for Euro-MPs, their staff, other
European Parliamentary officials

£424,974 Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure

£191,496 Meetings, conferences, publications and archiving

£351,864 Quangos and other external institutions

£26,638 Other expenditure and reserves

TOTAL £2,108,875

LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              48 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

GBP 2.1m bill for each Euro MP. . . how can they be worth that?

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 703  words


EACH Euro MP will cost taxpayers a massive GBP 2.1 million next year, figures
from Brussels revealed last night.

And the overall cost of the bloated Euro Parliament will rocket by 6.5 per cent
to an eye-watering GBP 2.6 billion, according to a draft budget for 2010.

It means Euro MPs are costing more than four times their counterparts at
Westminster. And the inflation- busting budget rise comes despite continuing
allegations of widespread fraud and waste in Brussels and Strasbourg.

European Union officials claim the extra cash is needed because of an "increased
workload" brought by the controversial Lisbon Treaty, which came into force last
year without a referendum for British voters.

Angry critics of the EU gravy train last night savaged the latest leap in the
already hugely expensive Parliament. Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance,
said: "The costs of Euro MPs are obscene when you consider no one supports their
existence. The Parliament pours vast amounts of money down the drain and still
fails to excite, inspire or represent the people.

"The anger at Westminster MPs was absolutely justified, but MEPs deserve even
more criticism for their wasteful, self-indulgent ways."

Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said: "This is a huge rise in these
tough economic times when governments across Europe are trying to find ways to
save money. Taxpayers are being forced to tighten their belts.

Euro MPs should do the same."

The draft budget shows the assembly will cost an estimated GBP 1.72billion next
ear, including salaries, buildings, furniture, transport and other costs
involved in a Parliament that meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg.

In addition, administrative costs are set to soar by a mighty 20 per cent to GBP
14 million. The total bill for the salaries, expenses and pensions of the 736
Euro MPs is due to rise by 4.5 per cent to GBP 216 million. And the bill for the
army of bureaucrats is to rocket by 9.6 per cent to GBP 542 million. Other
expenditure includes a new "visitors' centre" costing nearly GBP 3 million in
its first y ear, while a total of GBP 8 million is to be spent on its own
internet-based TV channel. And the Parliament is determined to open a new House
of European History museum by 2014 to "promote an awareness of European
identity".

Tory Euro MP Richard Ashworth, a member of the Parliament's budgets committee,
said: "Gordon Brown was warned that Lisbon would make the EU more expensive yet
he forced it through regardless and now we are seeing the consequences. " UK
Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "The European institutions are
preaching economy for all except themselves. In difficult financial times,
taxpayers are expected to dig even deeper to finance vanity projects, private
cars and more junkets. How much more gravy does Europe want on the gravy train?"

The cost increases will be an intense embarrassment for Mr Brown, who is due to
attend an EU summit in Brussels later this week. Downing Street insists the
Prime Minister will oppose the budget increase, although he is almost certain to
be overruled.

A British diplomat said: "It does nothing to counter the unfair image that Euro
MPs are just riding the gravy train to Brussels. This isn't the moment to fatten
up allowances."

The expected entry of Croatia, with an extra 62 bureaucrats, into the EU was
also increasing bureaucracy and translation costs. And an extra 18 Euro MPs are
due to join under the Lisbon Treaty. A European Parliament source said: "We
cover 27 countries and work in 23 languages."

The 6.5 per cent rise breaches a 22-year-old pledge by the Parliament that the
cost of Euro MPs would never exceed a fifth of the EU's overall budget. The
basic salary of a Euro MP is GBP 82,915 a year, compared with the GBP 64,766 of
a Commons MP. Euro MPs can also rake in GBP 360,000 in expenses.

ANNUAL COST FOR EACH EURO MP

GBP 1,113,903

Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure

GBP 191,496

Quangos and other external institutions

GBP 26,638

GBP 2,108,875

Does EU cost British taxpayers too much?

YES: 0901 030 8340

No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              49 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fight for Olympic tickets

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 07

LENGTH: 574  words


Fury as EU ruling means British taxpayers face a scramble

CRITICS hit out last night at the London Olympics organisers as it emerged that
75 per cent of tickets allocated to the British public for the 2012 Games will
be open to anyone living in the European Union.

Games chiefs announced yesterday eight million tickets will go on sale but there
are growing fears that not enough of them will go to British sports fans.

Under EU legislation tickets made available to British fans in an online ballot
must also be on offer to residents from across Europe.

Three in four tickets will be sold in the ballot - with the rest earmarked for
the "Olympic family" - VIPs, sponsors, athletes' friends and family as well as
official broadcasters.

Around one per cent of tickets have been set aside for "prestige hospitality"
for the Games, which will cost at least GBP 9.3billion. A further three per cent
will go via other travel packages.

Officials confirmed the 75 per cent of tickets allocated to the British public
will be open to anyone living in the EU.

Boxing promoter Frank Maloney, who is standing for UKIP in Barking, said: "Who
does Brussels think is paying for the Olympics? We should have a system that
British taxpayers get reductions, not having to fight with any European for the
privilege of seeing the games."

Liberal Democrat Olympic spokeswoman Dee Doocey called for an exemption to the
legislation, saying: "The law is often used as an excuse to do nothing but it
would be perfectly possible to offer free tickets to those who will have
basically been living on a building site for seven years." Games chiefs
yesterday drafted in TV presenter Christine leakley - who arrived at Trafalgar
Square in a pair of black 5.5in heels - to launch its new ticket website.

She lined up with fellow The One Show host Adrian Chiles and Olympic gold
medallist Christine Ohuruogu.

Organisers kicked off a year-long build up to tickets going on sale by
announcing they had created an extra 300,000.

Members of the public can register their interest in particular events through
the new website.

Organisers said 40,000 signed up in the first four hours. People who register
will be able to enter a public ballot more quickly when it opens next spring -
although they are not guaranteed to win a place at an Olympic venue.

London 2012 chief executive Paul Deighton said: "The ballot in 2011 will, under
EU law, be available to everyone across the European Union."

"It is certainly our expectation that the majority of that 75 per cent in the
ballot will absolutely stay within the UK.

All our marketing efforts will be solely within the UK."

It looks unlikely organisers will be able to fulfil a pledge that all but two
million tickets would cost less than GBP 50.

Mr Deighton said ticket prices had still not been finalised but said the British
public were "in with a great chance of getting a ticket to the Games".

He added: "We will stand by what we have always said about pricing and that is
there will be millions of affordable tickets available to the British public."

Last month the Daily Express told how a multi-million-pound contract to
manufacture official souvenirs for the Games had been awarded to a Chinese
company. Beijing-based Honav won the licence for making Olympic badges.

The Chinese beat competition from 26 firms - most British. The contract was
awarded despite a Government pledge to shower UK firms with "Olympic gold" after
landing the 2012 Games.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Golden girls Christine Bleakley and Christine Ohuruogu yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              50 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 23, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

GBP 2.1m bill for each Euro MP. . . how can they be worth that?

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 17

LENGTH: 542  words


EACH Euro MP will cost taxpayers a massive GBP 2.1 million next y ear, ures from
Brussels revealed last night.

And the overall cost of the bloated Euro Parliament will rocket by 6.5 per cent
to an eyewatering GBP 2.6 billion, according to a draft budget for 2010.

So Euro MPs are costing more than four times their Westminster counterparts. And
the inflation busting budget rise comes despite continuing allegations of
widespread fraud and waste in Brussels and Strasbourg.

European Union officials claim the extra cash is needed because of a bigger
workload brought by the controversial Lisbon Treaty.

Angry critics of the EU gravy train last night savaged the latest leap in the
already hugely expensive Parliament. Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' alliance,
said:

"The costs of Euro MPs are obscene. The Parliament pours vast amounts of money
down the drain and still fails to excite, inspire or represent the people.

"The anger at MPs was absolutely justified, but MEPs deserve even more criticism
for their wasteful, self-indulgent ways."

Stephen Booth, of think-tank Open Europe, said: "This is a huge rise in tough
economic times when governments across Europe are trying to find ways to save
money. Taxpayers are being forced to tighten their belts. Euro MPs should do the
same."

The draft budget shows the assembly will cost an estimated GBP 1.72billion next
year, including salaries, buildings, furniture, transport and other costs
involved in a Parliament that meets in both Brussels and Strasbourg.
Administrative costs are set to soar by 20 per cent to GBP 14 million.

The bill for salaries, expenses and pensions of the 736 Euro MPs is due to rise
by 4.5 per cent to GBP 216 million. And the bill for the army of bureaucrats is
to rocket by 9.6 per cent to GBP 542 million.

Other expenditure includes a new visitors' centre costing nearly GBP 3 million
in its first year, while GBP 8 million is to be spent on its own internet-based
TV channel.

Tory Euro MP Richard Ashworth said: "Gordon Brown was warned that Lisbon would
make the EU more expensive yet he forced it through regardless. " UK
Independence Party Euro MP Marta Andreasen said: "How much more gravy does
Europe want on the gravy train?"

The cost rises will be an intense embarrassment for Mr Brown, who is due at an
EU summit in Brussels this week. Downing Street insists the Prime Minister will
oppose the budget rise but he is almost certain to be overruled. The expected
entry of Croatia, with an extra 62 bureaucrats, will also add to costs. And an
extra 18 Euro MPs are due to join under the Lisbon Treaty.

The 6.5 per cent rise breaches a 22-year-old pledge by the Parliament that the
cost of Euro MPs would never exceed a fifth of the EU's overall budget. The
basic salary of a Euro MP is GBP 82,915 a year, compared with the GBP 64,766 of
a Commons MP. Euro MPs can also rake in GBP 360,000 in expenses.

ANNUAL COST FOR EACH EURO MP

GBP 1,113,903

Buildings, furniture, equipment and miscellaneous operating expenditure

GBP 191,496

Quangos and other external institutions

GBP 26,638

GBP 2,108,875

Q Does EU cost British taxpayers too much?

YES: 0901 030 8340

No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              51 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 23, 2010 Tuesday 7:31 AM GMT

The dirtiest attack of the election so far

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 99 words


I've been meaning for some time to welcome back Gawaine Towler's blog, England
Expects. After a sparse and sporadic stretch, Gawaine is now posting several
times a day. He is more partisan than he used to be, which is no great surprise
as he is now a UKIP press officer. Still, he's often the first with EU-related
stories.

Have a look at his take on the horrible profile written about his boss on
Sunday. You don't have to be a UKIP supporter to sympathise with Nigel Farage on
this. I've seen some wretched pieces of journalism, but to attack a man for
having had cancer is exquisitely disgusting.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              52 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain to fight big increase in the cost of an MEP

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 485 words


BRITAIN has promised to resist an increase in the European Parliament's budget
that raises the cost of each MEP to a level four times higher than a Westminster
MP.

European Union officials have proposed a £119million budget increase next year,
taking the annual cost of the parliament to a record £1.6billion. The rise
contrasts with public sector spending cuts across the Continent.

The planned 6.5 per cent increase in 2011 also breaks a 22-year-old promise by
the parliament that the cost of MEPs would never be more than a fifth of the
EU's total administrative budget.

It has drawn an angry reaction from British officials, who will demand the
budget be cut when it is discussed by national governments.

"At a time when governments and public sector organisations across the EU are
cutting their spending and when our citizens are losing their jobs, it's
impossible to understand why MEPs think they should get to spend more," said a
British diplomat.

"It does nothing to counter the unfair image that MEPs are just riding the gravy
train to Brussels and I hope that they will see sense before they adopt their
final 2011 budget estimates.

This isn't the moment to fatten up allowances."

Draft budget estimates for next year, seen by The Daily Telegraph, will take the
full annual bill for an individual MEP to £2,150,000, more than four times the
cost of a Westminster MP. The spending increase includes 177 new staff to join
the 6,000 officials who already work in the parliament's administration and more
than £1million in extra entertainment perks for senior MEPs. The basic salary of
an MEP is £82,915, compared with £65,737 for an MP.

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP and member of the budgetary control committee,
accused Brussels of hypocrisy at a time when the EU is urging governments to
implement cuts.

"The European institutions are preaching economy for all except themselves. In
difficult financial times, European taxpayers are expected to dig even deeper to
finance vanity projects, private cars and more junkets. How much more gravy does
Europe want on the gravy train?" she said.

The European political parties in the parliament will receive £75million under
the projections, while spending on information about MEPs' work rises to
£72.5million, including £8 million for the parliament's own web-based television
channel.

The spending allowance for MEPs' staffing will rise to almost £220,000, a
provision that costs £11.8 million. The figure increased even though MEPs were
forced to pay back more than £3 million in "unduly paid" claims.

Controversial "brown envelope" cash payments, handed out without receipts, to
groups visiting the parliament will increase to £26million, a rise of £4.6
million.

Another £4.5million is earmarked to be spent on "connectivity" and mobile
internet services for MEPs.

The parliament is also determined to press ahead with a multi-million-pound
House of European History.

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              53 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

GRIFFIN ON THE GRAVY TRAIN;
DAY ONE WE LAUNCH HOPE NOT HATE 2010

BYLINE: ROS WYNNE-JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 1068 words


TODAY the Daily Mirror launches the Hope not Hate campaign for 2010 - our annual
celebration of modern, diverse Britain. Backed by a coalition of celebrities,
trade unions and tens of thousands of ordinary people, our campaign to combat
racism in politics is now in its fourth year.

Over the coming weeks we will bring you inspiring stories of hope and courage
from all over the country.

But first we turn the spotlight on the organisation whose ideas foul Britain -
the hate-fuelled British National Party.

A year after the BNP's Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons were elected to the
European Parliament on an "anti-sleaze" ticket, the two racist politicians stand
accused of exploiting their expense allowances.

The Daily Mirror can reveal that much of the party leadership is on the EU
payroll, including a personal bodyguard.

Last June Nick Griffin's website claimed the "BNP is going to set a higher
standard in politics when our two MEPs-elect, Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons,
take their seats in the European Parliament on July 17."

But unlike Labour, the Conservatives, the Lib Dems, the Greens and UKIP, they
have not even submitted quarterly accounts..

BNP leader Griffin, who represents Britain's North West region, has filed
partial accounts. Brons, elected to represent Yorkshire, has not filed any.

There is no obligation to do so but it is common practice to submit accounts in
the interests of transparency. Yesterday the Hope not Hate campaign launched a
petition calling for an investigation - amid fears the two could be misusing
taxpayers' money to fund their general election campaign.

Campaign co-ordinator Nick Lowles said: "There have been thousands of letters to
the EU Anti-Fraud Office and the President of the EU demanding an investigation.

"The BNP was elected on a promise to do politics differently. There is no legal
obligation to submit quarterly accounts but every other UK political party is
doing so.

CHALLENGED

"We now call on them to prove they are not taking British taxpayers for a ride."

In addition to their pounds 84,000-a-year salary, MEPs are entitled to spend
pounds 220,000 annually on administrative and constituency support to help them
represent the regions in which they were elected.

But it appears the BNP may be using this money to bankroll its leadership.

Griffin's website records that he employs Tina Wingfield and her husband Martin
plus Clive Jefferson part time. Andrew Brons also employs Martin Wingfield, and
the BNP candidate in Morley and Outwood, West Yorks, Chris Beverley.

Also on the EU payroll is Griffin's personal bodyguard. Others believed to be
funded by the taxpayer, include Eddy Butler, the party's head of elections. He
lives in Essex, far from Griffin and Brons' northern constituencies but close to
where Griffin is standing in the general election as the candidate for Barking.

Residents in Griffin's North West constituency, which includes Manchester and
Liverpool, have challenged whether he can really represent them while running a
campaign in the south. Griffin's MEP region includes the Cumbrian towns and
villages hit by floods last November. But he failed to visit the stricken areas
until last month.

In the days after the devastation in Cumbria, Griffin instead visited his target
seat in East London and attended a fascist conference in Spain.

As the RAF tackled floods in Cockermouth and Workington from November 19,
Griffin was in Madrid.

He was a guest speaker at a rally to commemorate the 1975 death of the fascist
dictator General Franco, held on Saturday, November 21.

Hosted by the tiny far-right National Democratic Party, the event was also
attended by Griffin's political mentor Roberto Fiore. He is the convicted former
leader of the terrorist Armed Revolutionary Nuclei, involved in the 1980 bomb
massacre at a Bologna rail station.

At the rally there were 28 arrests of members of a rival far-right group, the
Patriotic Socialist Movement.

Griffin did find time to criticise the Government's pounds 1million in aid to
Cumbria, saying he would "offer the most appropriate assistance I can".

STINKING

Seven weeks ago he offered a pounds 1,000 donation to Cumbria.

Eddy Butler, who is running Griffin's general election campaign, bizarrely
declared "the terrible damage caused by Cumbrian floods was the result of global
capitalism".

Griffin's constituents have seen little of him since his election on June 8. His
most high-profile statements so far have been on foreign affairs.

He condemned the Government for sending aid to earthquake-devastated Haiti and
said: "Sending aid to rioting ingrates while our own people die is stinking
elite hypocrisy."

He attended the Copenhagen talks on climate change but called it an "elite scam"
that was put forward by "anti-intellectual cranks".

In a Channel 4 interview he described Islam as a "cancer" that should be removed
from Europe by "chemotherapy".

Labour MEP Arlene McCarthy, who also represents the North West, said: "Less than
12 months after he was elected to represent us he is set to abandon the region
and is seeking to subsidise his salary by standing to become the MP for Barking.

"Griffin claims to be elected on an anti-sleaze ticket yet there are some
question marks over the use of public money which he needs to answer.

"His accounts don't appear to be reviewed or signed off by an independent
accountant.

"If members of British National Party staff are now being paid by the European
Parliament, are they working for the BNP or are they working for their
constituents?"

Asked to respond to allegations, BNP communications officer Paul Golding, a
councillor in Sevenoaks, Kent, said: "I'm very sorry, we don't deal with the
Daily Mirror."

John Walker, the BNP's deputy press officer, referred the Mirror to the party's
media inquiries website and added: "We don't have to justify ourselves to
anyone."

On the Europe payroll

JOHN WALKER

Deputy press spokesman. Lives in Wales. Standing in Alyn & Deeside

MARTIN WINGFIELD

Communication officer for leaders. Standing in Workington, Cumbria.

TINA WINGFIELD

Runs Griffin's office. Standing in Salford, Greater Manchester, against Hazel
Blears.

CHRIS BEVERLEY

Yorkshire organiser and candidate in Morley & Outwood, top target in Yorks.

CLIVE JEFFERSON

North West organiser. Standing in Copeland, Cumbria, in the election.

MARTIN REYNOLDS

Griffin's minder.

To add your voice to the petition, go to action.hopenothate.org.uk/fraud
www.mirror.co.uk/hopenothate

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUNDING BNP leader Nick Griffin has been exploiting his allowances
POLITICS OF HATE Andrew Brons, left, with Nick Griffin at the British National
Party's gathering in Blackpool after last June's MEP election results

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              54 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

GRIFFIN ON THE GRAVY TRAIN;
CAMPAIGN WE LAUNCH HOPE NOT HATE 2010

BYLINE: ROS WYNNE-JONES

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 931 words


A YEAR after the BNP's Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons were elected to the
European Parliament on an "antisleaze" ticket, the pair stand accused of
exploiting expense allowances.

The Daily Mirror can reveal that much of the party leadership is on the EU
payroll, including a personal bodyguard.

Last June Nick Griffin's website claimed the "BNP is going to set a higher
standard in politics when our two MEPs-elect, Nick Griffin and Andrew Brons,
take their seats in the European Parliament on July 17".

But unlike Labour, the Conservatives, the Lib Dems, the Greens and UKIP, they
have not even submitted quarterly accounts.

BNP leader Griffin, who represents Britain's North West region, has filed
partial accounts. Brons, elected to represent Yorkshire, has not filed any.
There is no obligation to do so but it is common practice to submit accounts in
the interests of transparency.

Yesterday Hope not Hate launched a petition calling for an investigation - amid
fears the two could be misusing taxpayers' money to fund their general election
campaign.

Campaign co-ordinator Nick Lowles said: "There have been thousands of letters to
the EU Anti-Fraud Office and the President of the EU.

PROMISE

"There is no legal obligation to submit quarterly accounts but every other UK
political party is doing so. We now call on the BNP to prove they are not taking
taxpayers for a ride."

In addition to their pounds 84,000-a-year salary, MEPs are entitled to spend
pounds 220,000 annually on administrative and constituency support. But it
appears the BNP may be using this money to bankroll its leadership.

Griffin's website records that he employs Tina Wingfield and her husband Martin,
plus Clive Jefferson, part-time. Andrew Brons also employs Martin Wingfield and
the BNP candidate in Morley and Outwood, West Yorks, Chris Beverley.

Also on the EU payroll is Griffin's bodyguard. Others believed to be funded by
the taxpayer include Eddy Butler, the party's head of elections.

He lives in Essex, far from Griffin's and Brons' constituencies but close to
where Griffin is standing in the general election as candidate for Barking.

Griffin's MEP region includes the Cumbrian towns and villages hit by floods last
November. But he failed to visit the stricken areas until last month.

In the days after the devastation, he instead visited his target seat in East
London and travelled to Spain as a guest speaker at a rally to commemorate the
1975 death of the fascist dictator General Franco.

Hosted by the tiny far-right National Democratic Party, the event was also
attended by Griffin's political mentor Roberto Fiore, the convicted former
leader of the terrorist Armed Revolutionary Nuclei, involved in the 1980 bomb
massacre at a Bologna rail station.

Griffin did find time to criticise the Government's pounds 1million in aid to
Cumbria, saying he would offer "the most appropriate assistance I can".

Seven weeks ago he offered a pounds 1,000 donation to Cumbria. Eddy Butler, who
is running Griffin's general election campaign, bizarrely declared "the terrible
damage caused by Cumbrian floods was the result of global capitalism".

Griffin's constituents have seen little of him since his election in June.

His most high-profile statements so far have been on foreign affairs.

He condemned the Government for sending aid to earthquake-devastated Haiti and
said: "Sending aid to rioting ingrates while our own people die is stinking,
elite hypocrisy."

He attended the Copenhagen talks on climate change but called it an "elite
scam".

In a Channel 4 interview he described Islam as a "cancer" that should be removed
from Europe.

ABANDON

Labour MEP Arlene McCarthy, who also represents the North West, said: "Less than
12 months after he was elected to represent us he is set to abandon the region
and is seeking to subsidise his salary by standing to become the MP for Barking.

"Griffin claims to be elected on an anti-sleaze ticket yet there are some
question marks over the use of public money which he needs to answer.

"His accounts don't appear to be reviewed or signed off by an independent
accountant.

"If BNP staff are now being paid by the European Parliament, are they working
for the BNP or are they working for their constituents?" Asked to respond, BNP
communications officer Paul Golding, a councillor in Sevenoaks, Kent, said: "I'm
very sorry, we don't deal with the Daily Mirror."

Deputy press officer John Walker referred us to the party's website and added:
"We don't have to justify ourselves to anyone."

TODAY the Daily Mirror launches the Hope not Hate campaign for 2010 - our annual
celebration of modern, diverse Britain.

Backed by a coalition of celebrities, trade unions and tens of thousands of
ordinary people, our campaign to combat racism in politics is now in its fourth
year.

Over the coming weeks we will bring you inspiring stories of hope and courage
from all over the country.

But first we turn the spotlight on the organisation whose ideas foul Britain -
the hate-fuelled British National Party.

On the Europe payroll

JOHN WALKER

Deputy press spokesman. Lives in Wales. Standing in Alyn & Deeside

MARTIN WINGFIELD

Communication officer for leaders. Standing in Workington, Cumbria.

TINA WINGFIELD

Runs Griffin's office. Standing in Salford, Greater Manchester, against Hazel
Blears.

CHRIS BEVERLEY

Yorkshire organiser and candidate in Morley & Outwood, top target in Yorks.

CLIVE JEFFERSON

North West organiser. Standing in Copeland, Cumbria, in the election.

MARTIN REYNOLDS

Griffin's personal minder.

To add your voice to the petition, go to action.hopenothate.org.uk/fraud
www.mirror.co.uk/hopenothate

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FUNDING BNP leader Nick Griffin has been exploiting his allowances
POLITICS OF HATE Andrew Brons, left, with Nick Griffin at the British National
Party's gathering in Blackpool after last June's MEP election results

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              55 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 22, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

You bet

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 62 words


Paddy Power is offering odds on which politician will win the most TV debates.
David Cameron leads with evens; Gordon Brown, 5-4; Nick Clegg, 5-1; and for a
three-way tie, 12-1 (betting ends March 28)

With the UKIP currently holding its spring conference, William Hill is offering
odds of 2-1 that the party will win a seat at the next general election (betting
ends March 31)

LOAD-DATE: March 23, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              56 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK TO COME

BYLINE: JAMES HICKLING

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 244 words


MONDAY

BA cabin crew conclude their three-day strike. Bill Clinton and George W Bush
visit Haiti. Dylan Moran and Michael McIntyre are among comedians hoping for
acclaim at the Chortle Awards for British stand-up.

TUESDAY

A letter written in 1931 by Adolf Hitler to the Daily Express, hoping for a
"truly cordial relationship between the British and the German peoples so
eagerly desired by myself and my movement", is auctioned at Bonhams.

WEDNESDAY

Alistair Darling delivers his Budget. ;Emma Thompson (left) and Ralph Fiennes
will be at the Odeon, Leicester Square for the premiere of Nanny McPhee and the
Big Bang.

THURSDAY

EU heads of government meet in Brussels to discuss the Greek economic crisis.
Noel Gallagher makes his live debut after leaving Oasis at the Royal Albert
Hall, in aid of the Teenage Cancer Trust. Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader,
publishes his memoirs.

FRIDAY

Silvio Berlusconi's bribery trial resumes. Andrew Lloyd Webber returns to the
BBC to find a star to play Dorothy in his production of The Wizard of Oz (BBC
One, 9pm). Actor and director Dennis Hopper, star of Easy Rider, Apocalypse Now
and Blue Velvet, receives the 2,403rd star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame.

SATURDAY

Gordon Brown speaks at the Scottish Labour Party's Spring Conference.

SUNDAY

Drivers compete in the Formula 1 Australian Grand Prix. The awardwinning West
End musical Hairspray closes; over a million have seen it since it opened in
October 2007.

Compiled by JAMES HICKLING

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: AP

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              57 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Disarming tactics;
POINTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 83 words


Disarming tactics Having been one of just four paid CND employees, Baroness
Ashton (Profile, last week) became treasurer and then vice-chairman of CND.
Then, at the European parliament hearings on the new commission, it was clear
that (as was said of the Bourbons) she "has learnt nothing, and forgotten
nothing". If the views of Ashton and her CND pals had prevailed, the Wall would
still be there and eastern Europe would not now be free.

William Dartmouth South West MEP for the UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              58 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Brimming over with over with bile and booze;
NIGEL FARAGE The UKIP MEP and lounge bar lizard has a few scores to settle and
is set on rattling the Establishment at the election

BYLINE: CAMILLA LONG

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 1617 words


I'm quite relieved that Nigel Farage MEP has only one testicle. When the former
leader of the UK Independence party (UKIP) had the other removed in 1987 because
of cancer, the doctors offered him an artificial replacement to give him
"greater social confidence". But to watch him screaming at Herman Van Rompuy as
he did last month, saying the European council president had the "charisma of a
damp rag", tearing around with a loudhailer on his campaign to oust John Bercow,
the Commons Speaker, from his Buckingham seat, working "100-hour weeks",
inhaling whole packs of Rothmans and choffing down hundreds and hundreds of
pints, I dread to think what he would be like with ... two.

"Amaaaaaaazing, isn't it?" he says, swivelling in his chair in the MEPs' offices
in central London and spreading his pinstriped legs as far as they'll go. At 45,
he has the complexion of a used teabag. "I've got the unhealthiest lifestyle of
the lot, but the most energy! I left home at 5am on Monday, got up at 4.30 this
morning ..." Somewhere between Alan B'Stard and a frog - "actually, I think I
look most like President Medvedev" - Farage has carved something of a niche for
himself as a mouthy, brash agent provocateur. His recent explosion in the
European parliament, in which he also told Van Rompuy that he had "the
appearance of a low-grade bank clerk", got him fined £2,700 and 40,000 hits on
YouTube; most people thought he went too far.

"Too far", however, is not in the Farage lexicon. "All my speeches are like
that! I've been doing that for 11 years. Look, I'm a ..." - he gropes for a
sufficiently weighty epithet - "veteran." In fact, Nicolas Sarkozy absolutely
loved the Faraging he got when they spoke in the EU parliament in 2008, even
invited him to the Elysée Palace afterwards. "Sarko spent much more time with me
than any of the other politicians, because he'd actually enjoyed it," he says,
voice rising to a shout. "He loved it."

Still, "perhaps my delivery is a little shrill at times", he concedes, twiddling
his Spitfire cufflinks, "but [over the Van Rompuy affair] the parliament
responded by fining me and questioning my right to speak freely".

Er, abusively. "I don't think it was abusive. I was right!" he says. "Who is
Herman Van Rompuy? Baroness Ashton [the EU high representative for foreign
affairs] is even less well known. She never held elected office. She obviously
... married well."

So, an inside job, because her husband, Peter Kellner, is an old friend of Tony
Blair? "Of course it is! I very much doubt she's up to doing it. But the
highest-paid female politician in the world is not going to resign."

He's got a point, but I do wish he wouldn't deliver it so odiously. But then,
Farage is pretty odious: a shifty saloonbar lizard. He stood down as UKIP leader
last June - "the internal fights took up so much time" - to focus on being an
MEP for the party. A rather odd task, representing a party in the European
parliament whose sole desire is to get Brtitain out of the EU, but he has been
fairly successful in raising awareness. Still, the operation overall has been
typically amateur.

Last November one of its MEPs, Tom Wise, was jailed for taking advantage of the
generous EU expenses.

"I knew he was rotten within a fortnight," boasts Farage now, although in a
highly uncharacteristic episode of selfcensorship, he initially kept his
suspicions quiet, "because I didn't know what he was doing, although I could
just ... tell". He "jolly well hope[s]" there aren't any more wrong 'uns - but
he's been looking out for signs, which are "obvious", he declares. "The six
o'clock freebie cocktail party in the main reception area. If you see UKIP MEPs
attending them on a regular basis you think, 'Eh, what's going on?' " I wonder
how closely Farage patrols these cocktail parties. He says he hardly ever goes,
but he's not chanced on anything to worry about. Still, the bare fact that we're
discussing spying on fellow party members makes me wonder what kind of a bonkers
outfit UKIP is. Admittedly, it's always been a bit of a Dad's Army of
gamblingaddicted cab drivers, depressed publicans, constipated schoolmasters and
second world war re-enactment nuts with unpalatable views on immigration: "the
BNP in blazers". Even Farage admits he has made "big mistakes in judgments of
character" when it comes to recruitment, a process that tends to take place over
long lunches.

Farage readily admits he likes a drink - he'd be quite keen to conduct the
interview in the pub, but 10.30am is "too early even for us", he says,
dolefully, glancing at his watch. "Give it 45." Indeed the booze factor might
explain the bizarre involvement of Robert Kilroy-Silk, the professionally irate
former chat-show host, who burst onto the party scene in 2004, "to boost the
party's profile", says Farage, but "suddenly, it all went to his head." After a
ham-fisted attempt on the leadership, Kilroy-Silk left and set up his own gang -
sorry, party - Veritas, which spent "six months trying to destroy UKIP".

Farage is now getting revenge in his autobiography, Fighting Bull, tracing his
rise from irrepressible south London public-school boy to City metals trader and
his current incarnation as single-issue cage rattler.

There are moments of unparalleled pomposity - "Others with my acumen ... would
have won brilliant scholarships", he writes of sitting the 11-plus; addressing
7,000 French farmers, he spoke in "un français parfait" - but much of it is
straight bananas. The EU, according to Farage, is a "serial date rapist": no
matter how many times you say no, it only ever hears yes. A discussion of Arabs
notes that they have made one outstanding contribution to western culture: the
word "alcohol". Mostly, however, the book is about settling scores, or, as
Farage describes it, "putting my side of the story". The largest score is
Kilroy-Silk, a vain, orange buffoon and "monster".

Was Farage, who assumed the party leadership in 2006, a bit jealous of
Kilroy-Silk's profile? "Absolutely not!" he screams. "Absolutely not." Actually
he was "thrilled" and "delighted" that Kilroy-Silk came and stole all the
thunder, but then he rather spoils things by going slightly too far, describing
it as "before and after the birth of Christ".

Farage's current opponent, John Bercow, gets short shrift, too. The Speaker is
traditionally unchallenged in parliamentary elections, but in standing against
him Farage is trying to give voters an opportunity to "show their disenchantment
with the political class". In the book, Bercow is a "loose cannonball" with past
far-right connections - all of which seems a little rich coming from Farage.
"Look," he says. "I know you'll laugh at me, but I don't generally get involved
in slagging people off. But he is very pleased with himself ..." Another of the
book's scores is ... well, just that. In 2006 Farage, who has been married twice
and has four children, became the target of a tabloid kiss'n'tell when a woman
from, of all places, Latvia claimed she had snogged him in a pub in Biggin Hill,
Kent, before dragging him home, where he "stunned her with his kinky demands"
and they had sex "at least seven times". The revelation led to several jokes,
including "UKIP if you want to".

Seven times, I say. Wow. And on half power! Farage looks furtive, clearly
searching for a way both to confirm this stunning feat of priapism and to deny
it.

"Er ... well," he says. "Yes. I did have a couple of phone calls, and there are
cheers when I turn up at a student union ... but it's not the sort of thing you
plan. It was one of those very, very rare moments where I was ... out of
control."

As far as I can see, Farage has these very, very rare moments quite frequently.
In 2004 he found himself in a lap-dancing bar during the French presidential
campaign - with one of the candidates; in the book he recalls a more serious
episode in 1985 when, trudging home somewhat refreshed, he barrelled over the
bonnet of an oncoming VW.

His blood-alcohol levels were so high he had to be sedated until they were
sufficiently low for surgeons to operate.

The accident happened because he had been drinking all day - perfectly normal
behaviour, apparently, at a time when "a proper lunch lasted seven, eight
hours", he recalls.

How much did they drink? "Oh, no," he says. "I'm not doing the William Hague
trick."

Why not? "Because nobody would believe it if I told the truth."

Go on! "Well. We'd have drinks before, and then a couple of bottles of red ..."
He ticks his fingers off. "We'd have quite a lot! Of course we would."

Can he actually remember? The id*ea that Farage can't hold his drink is clearly
preposterous.

"People that know me well," he raises his voice, "would tell you that they've
hardly ever seen me pissed. And I'm rather proud of that."

But you got run over! "I wasn't blind drunk," he says.

"I'd had," he chortles, "a good day."

Has he ever worried about alcoholism? His father, also a metals trader, was a
terrible alcoholic. "I've been lucky," he says. "I can pack it up for a week and
it's not a problem. It's how we're made. My father was made in the way it took
him over and it wrecked him. But I'm lucky. I'm one of those people who can take
it or leave it."

He glances at his watch again, and I think how nice it'd be if he just went to
the pub and stayed there for ever, and sure enough he is there two days later
when I call his press officer to confirm which testicle he had removed. Farage
has just given his party conference speech and is in high spirits. "Tell her to
come and find out, ha-ha-ha!" he shouts over the din.

Fighting Bull is published by Biteback at £17.99

'' Film of him hurling in Brussels got him fined £2,700 and 40,000 hits on
YouTube

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PAUL VICENTE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              59 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Ban the bombast;
POINTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 81 words


Having been one of just four paid CND employees, Baroness Ashton (Profile, last
week) became treasurer and then vice-chairman of CND. Then, at the European
parliament hearings on the new commission, it was clear that (as was said of the
Bourbons) she "has learnt nothing, and forgotten nothing". If the views of
Ashton and her CND pals had prevailed, the Berlin Wall would still be there and
eastern Europe would not now be free.

William Dartmouth South West MEP for the UK Independence party

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              60 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Taking revenge? I'll drink to that;
The UKIP MEP Nigel Farage has seized his moment to settle a few scores, writes
Camilla Long

BYLINE: Camilla Long

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 997 words


I'm quite relieved that Nigel Farage MEP has only one testicle. When the former
leader of the UK Independence party (UKIP) had one of them removed in 1987
because of cancer, the doctors offeredhim an artificial replacement to give him
"greater social confidence". But to watch him screaming at Herman Van Rompuy as
he did last month, saying the European council president had the "charisma of a
damp rag", tearing around with a loudhailer on his campaign to oust John Bercow,
the Commons Speaker, from his Buckingham seat at the next election, I dread to
think what he'd be like with two.

"Amaaaaaaazing, isn't it?" he says, swivelling in his chair in the MEPs' offices
in central London and spreading his pinstriped legs as far as they'll go. At 45,
he has the complexion of a used teabag. "I've got the unhealthiest lifestyle of
the lot, but the most energy! I left home at 5am on Monday, got up at 4.30 this
morning..." Somewhere between Alan B'Stard and a frog, Farage has carved a niche
for himself as a mouthy, brash agent provocateur.

His recent explosion in the European parliament got him fined £2,700; most
people thought he went too far.

"Too far", however, is not in the Farage lexicon. "All my speeches are like
that! I've been doing that for 11 years. Look, I'm a..."-he gropes for a
sufficiently weighty epithet - "veteran." Still, "perhaps my delivery is a
little shrill at times", he concedes, "but [over the Van Rompuyaffair] the
parliament responded by fining meand questioningmyright to speak freely".

Er, abusively.

"I don't think it was abusive. I was right!" he says. "Who is Herman Van Rompuy?
Baroness Ashton [the EU high representative for foreign affairs] is even less
well known. She never held elected office. She obviously... married well."

So, an inside job, because her husband, Peter Kellner, is an old friend of Tony
Blair? He's got a point, but I do wish he wouldn't deliver it so odiously. But
then, Farage is pretty odious. He stood down as UKIP leader last June-"the
internal fights took up so much time"- to focus on being an MEP for the party.
An odd task, representing a party in the European parliament whose sole desire
is to get Britain out. Still, the operation overall has been typically amateur.
Last November one of its MEPs,Tom Wise, was jailed for taking advantage of EU
expenses. "I knew he was rotten within a fortnight," boasts Farage. He hopes
there aren't any more wrong 'uns - but he's been looking out for signs, which
are "obvious", he says. "The six o'clock freebie cocktail party in the main
reception area. If you see UKIP MEPs attending them on a regular basis you
think, 'Eh, what's going on?' "

I wonder how closely Farage patrols these cocktail parties. The bare fact we're
discussing spying on fellow party members makes me wonder what kind of a bonkers
outfit UKIP is. Admittedly, it's always been a bit of a Dad's Army, with
unpalatable views on immigration. Even Farage admits he has made "big mistakes
in judgments of character" when hiring, a process that takes place over long
lunches.

Farage readily admits he likes a drink - he'd be quite keen to conduct the
interview in the pub, but 10.30am is "too early even for us", he says,
dolefully.

"Give it 45." Indeed the booze factor might explain the bizarre involvement of
Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former chatshow host, who burst onto the scene in 2004
"to boost the party's profile", says Farage. After a ham-fisted attempt on the
leadership, Kilroy-Silk left and set up his own party, Veritas, which spent "six
months trying to destroy UKIP".

Farage is now getting revenge in his autobiography, Fighting Bull, tracing his
rise from irrepressible south London public-school boy to City metals trader and
his current incarnation as single-issue cage rattler. There are moments of
unparalleled pomposity - "Others with my acumen... would have won brilliant
scholarships", he writes of sitting the 11-plus - but mostly the book is about
settling scores. The largest score is Kilroy-Silk, a vain, orange buffoon and
"monster".

Was Farage, who assumed the party leadership in 2006, a bit jealous of
Kilroy-Silk's profile? "Absolutely not!" he screams. "Absolutely not." Actually
he was "thrilled" and "delighted" that Kilroy-Silk came and stole all the
thunder, but then Farage rather spoils things by going slightly too far,
describing it as "before and after the birth of Christ".

Another of the book's scores is... well, just that. In 2006 Farage, who has been
married twice and has four children, became the target of a tabloid kiss'n'tell
when a woman from, of all places, Latvia claimed she had snogged him in a pub in
Biggin Hill, Kent, before dragging him home, where he "stunned her with his
kinky demands" and they had sex "at least seven times". The revelation led to
several jokes, including "UKIP if you want to".

Seven times, I say. Wow. "Er... well," he says. "It was one of those very, very
rare moments where I was... out of control."

As far as I can see, Farage has these very, very rare moments quite frequently.
In 2004 he found himself in a lap-dancing bar during the French presidential
campaign-with one of the candidates; in the book he recalls a more serious
episode in 1985 when he barrelled over the bonnet of an oncoming VW.His
blood-alcohol levels were so high he had to be sedated until they were
sufficiently low for surgeons to operate.

Has he ever worried about alcoholism? His father, also a metals trader, was a
terrible alcoholic. "I've been lucky," he says. "I can pack it up for a week and
it's not a problem. It's how we're made."

He glances at his watch again, and I think how nice it'd be if he just went to
the pub and stayed there for ever, and sure enough he is there two days later
when I call his press officer to confirm which testicle he had removed. Farage
has just given his party conference speech and is in high spirits. "Tell her to
come and find out, ha-ha-ha!" he shouts over the din.

Fighting Bull is published by Biteback at £17.99

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PAUL VICENTE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              61 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 21, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Ashton's CND past;
POINTS

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 85 words


Ashton's CND past Having been one of just four paid CND employees, Baroness
Catherine Ashton (Profile, last week) became treasurer and then vice-chairman of
CND. Then, at the European parliament hearings on the new commission, it was
clear (as was said of the Bourbons) "she has forgotten nothing: she has learnt
nothing". If the views of Ashton and her CND pals had prevailed, the wall would
still be there and eastern Europe would not now be free. William Dartmouth South
West MEP for the UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              62 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Briefly...;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 38

LENGTH: 286  words


I WAS appalled to read of horses suffering during long-distance transportation
to European slaughterhouses ("Horrific trade in horses for the hungry Italian
diners", Sunday Express, March 14). Why is lowering standards even an option? It
seems to me that in the same way welfare standards for helpless people in our
society are being eroded, the same can be said for animal welfare.

Regulations must be tightened to ensure that livestock destined for consumption
are treated with the utmost care and respect.

David McGee, Chertsey, Surrey

IN response to " 'My partner died because of a pothole' " (Sunday Express, March
14), I also had a near miss as a result of an oncoming car swerving to avoid a
pothole on that side of the road. Thankfully the only damage sustained was to my
car, having mounted the kerb, but had there been a pedestrian or, God forbid, a
child in the way then it could have been much worse. We pay enough in road tax
to demand action.

Susan Anders, Maidstone, Kent

WITH regard to "How Facebook takes over children's lives", (Sunday Express,
March 14), I feel we must look to parents for the solution rather than just
blaming the websites. As a child, I wasn't allowed out until my homework was
done and parents today must tackle the issue and restrict internet access.

Mark Watchorn, Yeovil, Somerset

HOW absurd that the European Court of Human Rights is insisting on 'votes for
serving prisoners'. This is a moral issue. Apparently we are in breach of yet
another ill-advised EU directive.

Well done Godfrey Bloom

MEP for speaking up on behalf of the 'normal majority'. As far as I can see UKIP
is now the only 'voice of the people' across the full range of issues.

J Morgan, South Killingholme, N Lincs

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              63 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

French take over EU foreign office

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 02

LENGTH: 195  words


THE French are taking over the EU's new GBP 7billion foreign service by quietly
putting their own officials in key positions, it was claimed last night.

Euro MPs accused EU foreign affairs chief Baroness Catherine Ashton of being so
weak she has allowed her new diplomatic corps to be "a continuation of French
policy by other means".

They said the proposed service was based too closely on the French foreign
ministry and accorded too much power to a new secretary general-who is likely to
be French as will be many other staff.

Britain's Baroness Aston will nominally head 2,000 staff in Brussels and around
the world.

But French officials controlling access to her will wield most power, it is
claimed. Gordon Brown boasted that Britain was victorious in last November's
negotiations for the EU's top positions but critics say by nominating someone as
inexperienced as Baroness Ashton, a former junior Labour minister, he has
allowed the French to outflank him on the detail.

Last night UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said: "It beggars belief that we have allowed
this. The whole project is French bureaucracy."

MEPs debate the proposals tomorrow but significant changes are unlikely.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              64 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             March 21, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now EU will send three presidents to summits

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 42

LENGTH: 415  words


PROMISES by EU leaders that the Lisbon Treaty would herald a new era of clarity
have been shattered after attempts to settle a major internal power feud
resulted in a typical Brussels fudge.

Bureaucrats have decided to send not just one president and his entourage to
global summits but a tax-draining three.

Only four months after the fanfare of Herman Van Rompuy's appointment as
European Council president, his most jealous and powerful rival in Brussels has
persuaded allies to allow him to muscle in too.

José Manuel Barroso, president of the European Commission, has succeeded in his
demands that he should also go to diplomatic summits, such as the G20, after
insisting only he has the expertise to deal with specific policy matters.

At certain summits there will even be a third representative - the leader of the
country holding the EU's rotating presidency.

This seems to justify criticism that the Lisbon Treaty would add to the EU's
murky waters and not be a move towards transparency.

Sarah Gaskell, spokeswoman for the Open Europe think-tank, said last night:
"This surely must be the final nail in the coffin of the Government's promise
that the Lisbon Treaty would bring greater clarity to the European Union.

"Instead of Europe speaking with one voice we have two of the EU's many
presidents fighting for the limelight and over who gets to speak on what issue.

"Other countries at the G20 will be completely puzzled by the EU's failure to
decide who should speak for it. It seems to change from one day to the next."

Since the Lisbon Treaty came into force at the end of last year, arguments have
raged in Brussels over which department does what.

Mr Van Rompuy, the former Belgian prime minister dismissed last month by Ukip
MEP Nigel Farage as a "damp rag" and a "low-grade bank clerk", is the permanent
president of the European Council. That means he has overall responsibility for
foreign policy and security matters.

And while the commission's President Barroso will speak on climate change, there
are a number of areas where their responsibilities overlap.

One is energy, which is considered both a security and a commission policy area.
Only when these circumstances arise will the pair of presidents decide who is to
speak, however.

EU spokeswoman Pia Ahrenkilde-Hansen insisted: "These practical arrangements
will ensure full coherence, complementarity and clarity in the way we approach
international gatherings, in reaching our objective that the EU should speak
with one voice."

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              65 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Disaster if Tories win, says Ukip;
News Bulletin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 63 words


David Cameron's refusal to offer a referendum on Europe would spell "certain
disaster'' for Britain if the Tories win the election, the UK Independence Party
leader said yesterday.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch told a party conference in Milton Keynes that only
withdrawal from Brussels could deal with the country's two main "problems'': the
economy and immigration.

Tanya Gold: Page 27

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              66 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

It's carnival time for Farage and friends;
Yesterday's Ukip conference brought a surreal edge to Milton Keynes

BYLINE: Tanya Gold

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1127 words


The Ukip conference is in the Jurys Inn hotel in Milton Keynes, for one day
only, like a very special sale. It is possibly the least charismatic place in
all Milton Keynes, but even so, they are here - the Little England
Euro-sceptics, brushing the dust from their eyes and proudly standing up to the
Europe Monster, even as its tentacles threaten to strangle them. It is 10am and
the air smells strongly of toast.

In the ragtag army of bearded men and ancient ladies, I see a small boy. He is
dark and very serious; he says he is 13. "Like everyone else in Ukip, I am fed
up with the EU and immigration and the two party politics that dominate
Britain," he says.

You might be Ukip's William Hague, I tell him.

"Yes, I was thinking that," he says, "But he was 16 when he addressed party
conference, wasn't he?"

Inside the conference hall - low ceilings, no windows, an enormous purple pound
on a golden disc - it is, as ever, part political meeting, part carnival. Ukip
supporters are the worst dressers in British politics. Most are festooned with
Ukip balloons and sashes and rosettes. It is a brave member who does not wear a
Save the Pound brooch.

A woman bounces onto the stage: purple and yellow, she could be a Ukip balloon.
"I have the wonderful task of health and safety!" she shouts. Everyone boos.
"And if you need to go to the toilet it is on the left." Paul Nuttall, the bald,
emphatic party chairman, arrives, to call the party to arms: "We can really make
a change in British politics!" he says. "We need to take seats at Westminster!"

I go to find Nigel Farage, leader of the party's 12 MEPs. He is its poster boy
and former leader, a flirtatious creature who does a good impersonation of a
normal bloke. He is always in trouble for insulting the EU leadership,
particularly the president, Herman Van Rompuy who, he said, had "all the
charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk". I find
Farage talking to the man from Reuters. "If the entire political class is united
in their disgust," he is saying, "I must be doing something right."

He turns to me. "I am," he says happily, "one of the few people that Tony Blair
has shouted at." At least he didn't bomb you, I say. "I told him, 'unlike you,
President Chirac stands up for his country.'" And what did Blair say? "He said,
'This is not 1945! We are not at war with these people!'" Really, I say - that
is the sort of thing that Tony Blair says when he is angry? It seems quite
dull.

"I also asked him why British taxpayers had to fund a new sewerage system in
Budapest," says Farage, "that made him angry too. Does it really take four
parking attendants to put a ticket on Aggers' car?"

What? I follow Farage's gaze and look out the window. Four parking attendants
are ticketing a car. "That is what we are up against," says Farage, "Four
parking attendants ticketing Aggers' car." And who is Aggers? "One of our MEPs."

I go in search of Lord Pearson of Rannoch, Ukip's leader. He is outside the
hall. "Where is my bag?" he is saying to a gaggle of helpers. So they all start
looking for the bag and eventually find it under a table.

Lord Pearson looks like an owl. He has a properly posh voice. He says "awften"
not "often" and, presumably, "warful" not "waffle".

"Ukip," he says, "is the only honourable party." So what do you say to those who
say it is racist, because of its emphasis on immigration controls?

"Winston McKenzie," he says. What? "Winston McKenzie," he says. McKenzie, he
explains, is a Ukip candidate. He is black. "I haven't totted up how many ethnic
minority candidates we have," says Lord Pearson. "I'm not really interested."

I get him onto the subject of political wives. "My wife is much prettier than
their wives," he says. "She is a seriously beautiful woman and theirs aren't.
But that isn't really relevant. You should meet her."

And, magically, his wife, Caroline, arrives. She is indeed beautiful - tall,
blonde, slender.

"I said you were more beautiful than Samantha Cameron," Lord Pearson tells her.

"Don't say that," his wife replies. "It's so embarrassing."

"But you are," says Lord Pearson.

I rise, and leave them bickering.

But he calls me back. "Winston!" he shouts. "Talk to Winston!"

So I find Winston McKenzie, and tell him that Lord Pearson told me to ask him
about Ukip and racism. "You've come to the right man," he says. "Immigration
doesn't mean black. When you say 'immigration' people think you mean black. But
if we can get out of the EU, we will deviate away from the crime, the violence
and the drugs." "Absolutely," says a woman behind him.

Back in the hall, I am sitting next to a bearded man, who is wearing a shirt
that looks as if a Ukip website has exploded on it. He is Robert H Brown, the
candidate for North West Cambridgeshire, and every time I ask him a question, he
directs me to his shirt. "The cheapest way to raise my profile," he says, "is to
put the advert on me. People can then talk to the advert and get an instant
response."

We watch Nigel Farage come on and, as he does his speech, Robert H Brown mutters
ever more bizarre comments in my ear. "Nigel Farage gave me this medal at
Bournemouth," he says. "And Lord Pearson has travelled in the back of my car."
When he tells me, "My nickname is Hymn With Spade because I cleared a footpath.
I'm known worldwide for that", I have to ask him to be quiet.

At lunch, in the bar, everyone is ordering bitter. Lord Pearson is sitting in
the corner, and he waves. He has obviously decided he needs to hurl ethnic
minority candidates at me, so I will not think he is a racist. "Have you met
Abhijit Pandya?" he asks. "He's lovely. He's a candidate. He's Indian."

I had forgotten to ask why Ukip has had seven leaders in 17 years, so I ask Lord
Pearson now. "I don't know," he says. "When was the party founded?" 1993, I say.
"Really?" he says. "Well, I don't know. I haven't been around that long."

In the hall, a bald man is denouncing "Tory hypocritism". The mood darkens.
Islamism, immigration, "the self-serving dishonesty of the political class",
even global warming, all are booed. What is the point of booing global warming?
Lord Pearson is summing up: "Five more years of any of the other parties and we
will no longer be enmeshed in the tentacles of the corrupt octopus. We will be
in its belly."

And that was it, apart from a stage invasion. Ukip men have either no hair at
all or far too much. This one walks to the lectern and grabs it. "We have a new
leader," he says. "We will stay with him until our freedom is won back.
Completely. Utterly."

"Get off!" says a woman.

"Our generation," he goes on, "was the one where Britannia slept beneath the
waves."

"Get off!" says someone else. And, with that, conference rises to sing the
National Anthem and then everyone goes home.

LOAD-DATE: March 21, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: In full flow: Nigel Farage takes on the Europe Monster. Above: Tanya
Gold among the faithful
CLARA MOLDEN

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              67 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Now clowns at the EU blow £360m on circuses

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 280 words


OFFICIALS in Brussels are ploughing more than £360million of taxpayers' money
into arts projects that include hip hop dancing and a scheme to support
circuses, it emerged yesterday.

While hardworking families struggle to make ends meet during the worst recession
for 50 years, the European Commission is giving millions to its cultural
programme.

Projects it will support include TRANS-mission, an arts project that will get
£143,000 to "improve assistance to the contemporary circus sector".

The European Laboratory for Hip Hop Dance will receive £45,000 to "improve the
recognition and visibility of hip hop dance in Europe" and another £180,000 will
go to The Project of Generosity to "spread the movement of reaching out and
sharing".

The payouts are being spread over seven years, from 2007 until 2013.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said last night: "These are shocking
examples of waste of taxpayers' money. It shows what scope there is for savings
in the European Union budget."

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said: "The EU's twisted idea is to spend hundreds of
thousands of pounds of our money to make us feel good about them spending our
money. I certainly don't feel generous to them and I can't think of a man or
woman in this country that does."

Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It is ridiculous that
British taxpayers' hardearned money is being wasted in this way. People are sick
of seeing their money poured down the Brussels drain."

But EU education and culture spokesman Dennis Abbott said the projects had
created "millions of jobs in small businesses across Europe".

He added: "It's very easy to mock these objectives but they do make a
difference."

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              68 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday

Immigrants living in our sheds...and trees

BYLINE: David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 632 words


GANGS of immigrants have set up home in the back gardens of a quiet residential
street - and householders have been told officials and police are powerless to
remove them.

The squatters have built makeshift shelters on lawns and turned garden sheds
into squalid camps.

Some have even set up homes in trees - all without owners' consent.

Six properties at least in Peterborough, Cambs, were invaded four months ago.
Now the unwanted community has grown into a large encampment.

Rubbish has piled up around filthy mattresses with cider bottles, plastic bags
containing human faeces and drug needles left scattered across the area.

Parts of families' private properties, where children used to play freely, have
become no-go zones.

Besieged homeowners have repeatedly asked for police and council help to remove
the gangs. But astonishingly they have been told there is nothing anyone can do.

Yesterday Peterborough City Council said: "This is not our responsibility.

Because it's private land residents need to get a solicitor and take these
people to court."

Residents are facing having to pay out a small fortune to evict the invaders
through the courts. Police say they cannot arrest the squatters, mostly from
eastern Europe, as the infringement is a civil matter.

Critics accused the authorities of "cowardice" and said it highlighted the
crisis caused by Labour's shambolic immigration policy.

iT worker ian Treasure, 41, described how families were being "overwhelmed" by
the settlers who had driven locals to despair. He told how a man named Joseph
from the Czech Republic had been living in his coal shed since November. Up to
12 trespassers live in the gardens of Lincoln Road after gaining access through
an open alleyway.

Mr Treasure has called council officials six times pleading with them to help
evict the immigrants and remove growing mountains of festering rubbish.

He said: "The area has become overrun. it is disgusting and the worst thing is
that nobody is doing anything. Every day it gets worse.

"The angriest i have got was the first time i saw drug needles there in January.
i freaked out. i am going to have to fight tooth and nail to have these people
removed. if i was vulnerable i would have to move out, which is disgraceful."

Police said the invaders could not be arrested as trespassing is not a criminal
offence. All residents could do was ask the squatters to leave.

A spokesman added: "Anybody is allowed to use reasonable force to stop people
trespassing and get them off their property - much like a bouncer in a pub or
club. if there is some sort of confrontation then we can step in and prevent a
breach of the peace but we cannot act directly against the trespassers."

Tory MP Stewart Jackson said "The Labour government was warned uncontrolled
immigration would cause these sorts of problems.

"They have ignored Peterborough's needs and the consequences in terms of
housing, education, health and policing of their foolish and misguided policies.
it's disgraceful.

The Government must act now to pressure other EU countries to fulfil their
obligations to their own citizens and not leave my constituents to pick up the
tab."

Local UKiP Euro MP David Campbell Bannerman attacked "the cowardice of the
authorities". He said: "it is their duty to protect the people of this country.
They must do it."

Migrants are drawn to the city by the prospect of work picking vegetables on
Fenland farms. The council said last night: "We are aware of people sleeping in
these gardens. We will be working to help them access the services available to
them."

Q Does Britain have too many immigrants?

YES: 0901 030 8348 NO: 0901 030 8349

Yes text DXsATYes to 80088 No text DXsATNo to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Makeshift homes for a dozen rough sleepers include what is thought to
be a treehouse and Ian Treasure, pictured, has had one man living in his coal
shed
Pictures: MEN/MASONS
What was once a place where children played freely is now a no-go area strewn
with festering rubbish and dirty old mattresses yet the police refuse to act

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              69 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Brown hints at a further squeeze on the taxpayer

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 490 words


GORDON Brown had more grim news for taxpayers yesterday when he failed to rule
out extra tax hikes next year if he remains in power.

Asked whether a re-elected Labour government would have to raise taxes, Mr Brown
said: "We had a choice in November about whether we raised VAT or National
Insurance to maintain frontline services. We made our decision. We chose to
raise National Insurance.

"It will rise not this year but next year as the recovery drives faster into
growth. That is the policy of the Government.

"We have set it out and I will say no more than that. People should wait until
the Budget next week."

Mr Brown insisted the plan announced last year to cut the defi-cit over four
years was "easily the most ambitious of the G8 countries".

But Shadow Chancellor George Osborne accused the Government of undermining
confidence in Britain with its "complete confusion" over tax less than a week
before the Budget and 50 days from the expected General Election.

His comments follow statements by Lord Mandelson and Treasury Minister Liam
Byrne that Labour was not ruling out tax rises beyond the already announced
National Insurance and top-rate tax hikes.

On Thursday, Lord Mandelson appeared to warn taxes may have to rise further next
year if Labour wins the election, although the Business Secretary later denied
he meant Labour expected or was planning for taxes to go up beyond current
plans.

That followed Treasury Chief Secretary Mr Byrne's backtracking on a previous
claim that no more tax rises would be needed to deal with Britain's record
budget deficit.

But Mr Osborne warned Britain could not afford another five years of Labour. He
told the Federation of Small Businesses' annual conference in Aberdeen: "A
Conservative government is going to do what it takes to boost the recovery and
get Britain working again."

He said that "failure to deal decisively with the debt is putting the recovery
at risk". He asked: "What company in Britain, large or small, faced with a debt
crisis, would not start dealing with it? The Government's plan is simply not
credible." Mr Osborne said the weakness of Britain's recovery was "the price we
pay for a Government that over 13 years took one of the strongest and healthiest
economies in Europe and has made it one of the weakest".

He added: "We can't afford another five years heading in the wrong direction."

QUIT EUROPE TO END BRITAIN'S PROBLEMS

THE only way to solve Britain's economic and immigration problems is to leave
Europe, the UK Independence Party said last night.

Launching its manifesto, leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch also said the party
would not stand against hardline Eurosceptic rivals at the forthcoming General
Election.

"The plain fact is that the easiest way, perhaps the only way, to solve the
problems of the economy and immigration is to leave the EU," he said.

'This plan is not credible. We can't afford five more years heading in the wrong
direction' - GeorGe oSborne

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mandelson hinted at tax rises
Brown defended his planned NI hike

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              70 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'UK better off out of EU'

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 131  words


THE only way to solve Britain's economic and immigration problems is to leave
Europe, the UK Independence Party said last night.

Launching its manifesto, leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch also said the party
would not stand against hardline Eurosceptic rivals at the forthcoming General
Election.

"We are told that the voters are not really interested in Europe, " he told
party members in Milton Keynes, Bucks. "The plain fact is that the easiest way,
perhaps the only way, to solve the problems of the economy and immigration is to
leave the EU."

He accused Britain's three major political parties of being "timid" on
immigration.

"If you want more of them, more of the Lab, Lib, Con, if you want to make
absolutely sure that nothing will change, you should vote for one of them, " he
added.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              71 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Immigrants living in our sheds. . . and trees

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 05

LENGTH: 612  words


GANGS of immigrants have set up home in the back gardens of a quiet residential
street - and householders have been told officials and police are powerless to
remove them.

The squatters have built makeshift shelters on lawns and turned garden sheds
into squalid camps.

Some have even set up homes in trees - all without owners' consent.

Six properties at least in Peterborough, Cambs, were invaded four months ago.
Now the unwanted community has grown into a large encampment.

Rubbish has piled up around filthy mattresses with cider bottles, plastic bags
containing human faeces and drug needles left scattered across the area.

Parts of families' private properties, where children used to play freely, have
become no-go zones.

Besieged homeowners have repeatedly asked for police and council help to remove
the gangs.

But astonishingly they have been told there is nothing anyone can do.

Yesterday Peterborough City Council said: "This is not our responsibility.
Because it's private land residents need to get a solicitor and take these
people to court."

Residents are facing having to pay out a small fortune to evict the invaders
through the courts. Police say they cannot arrest the squatters, mostly from
eastern Europe, as the infringement is a civil matter.

Critics accused the authorities of "cowardice" and said it highlighted the
crisis caused by Labour's shambolic immigration policy.

IT worker Ian Treasure, 41, described how families were being "overwhelmed" by
the settlers who had driven locals to despair. He told how a man named Joseph
from the Czech Republic had been living in his coal shed since November. Up to
12 trespassers live in the gardens of Lincoln Road after gaining access through
an open alleyway.

Mr Treasure has called council officials six times pleading with them to help
evict the immigrants and remove growing mountains of festering rubbish.

He said: "The area has become overrun. It is disgusting and the worst thing is
that nobody is doing anything. Every day it gets worse.

"The angriest I have got was the first time I saw drug needles there in January.
I freaked out. I am going to have to fight tooth and nail to have these people
removed. If I was vulnerable I would have to move out, which is disgraceful."

Police said the invaders could not be arrested as trespassing is not a criminal
offence. All residents could do was ask the squatters to leave.

A spokesman added: "Anybody is allowed to use reasonable force to stop people
trespassing and get them off their property - much like a bouncer in a pub or
club. If there is some sort of confrontation then we can step in and prevent a
breach of the peace but we cannot act directly against the trespassers."

Tory MP Stewart Jackson said "The Labour government was warned uncontrolled
immigration would cause these sorts of problems.

"They have ignored Peterborough's needs and the consequences in terms of
housing, education, health and policing of their foolish and misguided policies.
It's disgraceful. The Government must act now to pressure other EU countries to
fulfil their obligations to their own citizens and not leave my constituents to
pick up the tab."

Local UKIP Euro MP David Campbell Bannerman attacked "the cowardice of the
authorities". He said:

"It is their duty to protect the people of this country. They must do it."

Migrants are drawn to the city by the prospect of work picking vegetables on
Fenland farms. The council said last night: "We are aware of people sleeping in
these gardens. We will be working to help them access the services available to
them."

Does Britain have too many immigrants?

YES: 0901 030 8348

No text DXSATNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: What was once a place where children played freely is now a no-go area
strewn with festering rubbish and dirty old mattresses yet the police refuse to
act
Make shift homes for a dozen rough sleepers include what is thought to be a tree
house and Ian Treasure, pictured, has had one man living in his coal shed

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              72 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

QUIT EUROPE TO END BRITAIN'S PROBLEMS

SECTION: NEWS; 08

LENGTH: 73  words


THE only way to solve Britain's economic and immigration problems is to leave
Europe, the UK Independence Party said last night.

Launching its manifesto, leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch also said the party
would not stand against hardline Eurosceptic rivals at the forthcoming General
Election.

"The plain fact is that the easiest way, perhaps the only way, to solve the
problems of the economy and immigration is to leave the EU, " he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              73 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Now clowns at the EU blow GBP 360m on circuses

BYLINE: By Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; 23

LENGTH: 281  words


OFFICIALS in Brussels are ploughing more than GBP 360million of taxpayers' money
into arts projects that include hip hop dancing and a scheme to support
circuses, it emerged yesterday.

While hardworking families struggle to make ends meet during the worst recession
for 50 years, the European Commission is giving millions to its cultural
programme.

Projects it will support include TRANS-mission, an arts project that will get
GBP 143,000 to "improve assistance to the contemporary circus sector".

The European Laboratory for Hip Hop Dance will receive GBP 45,000 to "improve
the recognition and visibility of hip hop dance in Europe" and another GBP
180,000 will go to The Project of Generosity to "spread the movement of reaching
out and sharing".

The payouts are being spread over seven years, from 2007 until 2013.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said last night:

"These are shocking examples of waste of taxpayers' money. It shows what scope
there is for savings in the European Union budget."

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom said:

"The EU's twisted idea is to spend hundreds of thousands of pounds of our money
to make us feel good about them spending our money. I certainly don't feel
generous to them and I can't think of a man or woman in this country that does."

Matthew Elliott, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "It is ridiculous that
British taxpayers' hard earned money is being wasted in this way. People are
sick of seeing their money poured down the Brussels drain."

But EU education and culture spokesman Dennis Abbott said the projects had
created "millions of jobs in small businesses across Europe".

He added: "It's very easy to mock these objectives but they do make a
difference."

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              74 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

Immigrants are living in our sheds and up in trees

BYLINE: By David Pilditch

SECTION: NEWS; 27

LENGTH: 237  words


GANGS of immigrants have set up home in the back gardens of a quiet residential
street - and cannot be thrown out.

The squatters have built makeshift shelters on lawns and even set up homes in
trees.

At least six properties in Peterborough, Cambs, were invaded four months ago.
Now the illegal community has grown into a large encampment.

Rubbish has piled up around filthy mattresses with cider bottles, plastic bags
containing human faeces and drug needles left scattered across the area.

Parts of families' private properties, where children used to play freely have
become no-go zones.

Homeowners have repeatedly asked for police and council help to remove the
gangs.

But astonishingly they have been told that there is nothing anyone can do.
Yesterday Peterborough City Council said: "This is not our responsibility.
Because it is private land, residents need to get a solicitor and take these
people to court."

IT worker Ian Treasure, 41, described how families were being "overwhelmed" by
the illegal settlers who had driven locals to despair. He told how a man named
Joseph from the Czech Republic had been living in his coal shed since November.
Up to 12 trespassers live in the gardens of Lincoln Road after gaining access
through an open alleyway.

Police said the invaders could not be arrested as trespassing is not an offence,
but local UKIP Euro MP David Campbell Bannerman attacked "the cowardice of the
authorities".

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              75 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday

Features - The Paddy McGuffin column - Gathering nuts in March;
The BNP's posh brother has a mass debate on its election 'assault' in Milton
Keynes

LENGTH: 575 words


This week has seen an interesting shift in the usually reliably minor migratory
patterns of village idiots throughout the land. A spate of absenteeism which
must have hit hamlets and small towns the length and breadth of the country.
Anthropologists are, I am reliably informed, studying the phenomena sometimes
referred to as bampot dislocation or, more commonly, the Ukip annual conference.

Yes, the annual get-together for the slightly more well-to-do racist and
xenophobe saw a veritable horde of knee-jerk, reactionary head-the-balls kicking
off their bash - or should that be rally? - in the glamorous setting of Milton
Keynes.

Sadly, their media invite to the Morning Star must have been lost in the post,
which is a shame in many ways. I would love to have been there to see them all
arriving. It would have been like an episode of Wacky Races - but with slightly
more ludicrous characters. The unreconstructed Yorkshire and Lincolnshire sexist
and bigot Godfrey Bloom, for example, who still believes a woman's place is in
the kitchen and who applauded the bombing of the Rainbow Warrior.

The latter example of his calibre is quite odd, as well as being morally
repugnant, because it was the French secret service which blew up the Greenpeace
flagship. That's perilously close to a pro-European sentiment.

For the record, Bloom is also a fully paid-up climate change denier who recently
blustered: "Ukip are the only party that believe man-made climate change does
not exist," with that wonderful arrogance so unique to total idiots which meant
he didn't have to trouble his remaining braincells questioning why that might
be.

One can only speculate about the quality of debate which poured forth from the
Ukip ranks, but I would wager it's the first time the concrete cows have felt
intellectually superior to anyone in quite a while.

You almost have to have a grudging admiration of the sheer hypocrisy of an
avowedly anti-European party which calls the EU a gravy train yet takes its
seats and pockets a whacking great salary and expenses. A party which accuses
the EU of corruption and had at least one of its own MEPs sent down for benefit
fraud, another done for money laundering and fiddling his expenses and yet
another two forced to pay back "misclaimed" money. Just the kind of upstanding
citizens you want wandering around Brussels claiming to be representing us.

The conference, the party's web-site boasts, was a ticket-only affair - quite
right too! You don't want just any common or garden bigot wandering in, just the
paying kind - with a capacity of 500. A lucky few were also able to purchase
tickets to the glorious leader's evening buffet reception for a mere twenty quid
a pop.

You would think Ukip would be wary of bringing so many of their supporters and
members together in one place. Nature abhors a vacuum, and with that number of
empty heads in one location implosion is surely a distinct possibility.

The party states that the spring gathering is timed to coincide with Ukip's
"full-scale assault on the general election" - a frightening thought for anyone
of sound mind, especially seeing as there does seem to be an inordinate number
of people who actually share their backwards views.

The repeated claims of respectability by Ukip and its supporters are about as
convincing a veneer as Kilroy's tan. They and the fascist BNP are inbred twins
born of an incestuous marriage. It's just that one of them wears an old school
tie.

LOAD-DATE: March 22, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              76 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 20, 2010 Saturday 3:39 PM GMT

A response to my UKIP-supporting readers

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 643 words


Another 48 hours of campaigning across my vast, soggy, Home Counties patch, with
speeches at Amersham (Bucks), Pulborough (West Sussex) and Seaford (East
Sussex), and I'm sticking to my prediction that David Cameron will win the
election with a working majority. People are desperate to get rid of a
government that has left our country diminished, our Treasury empty, our credit
exhausted and our parliamentary system delegitimised.

It's conceivable that, in some Northern cities, the LibDems will be the chief
beneficiaries of the anti-Labour mood. In Scotland, for all I know, the Nats
might stand to gain. But in most of the country, the alternative to Labour is
the Conservative Party.

Seaford is a Ukippy town, and many of that party's supporters came to my public
meeting there this morning, which was also attended by the Conservative
candidate for Lewes, Jason Sugarman. They were a well-behaved and courteous lot,
the Ukippers, and it spoke well of them that they were prepared to come and
listen to alternative points of view.

Of course, they kept asking me why I wouldn't join them, the same question that
is so often raised in these comment threads. (Indeed, some of the questioners
may be the same people). Let me, again, give you my answer.

Malcolm Pearson, the UKIP leader, is a good man: a sincere, incorruptible,
disinterested patriot. He was a loyal friend to me for more than a decade when
he sat as a Tory, and I am determined that his change of party should not
prejudice our friendship. Still, Malcolm won't mind my saying that he has no
chance of entering Downing Street on 7 May. There are only two possible Prime
Ministers: David Cameron and Gordon Brown.

Voting UKIP in a place like Seaford means boosting the prospects of its
Euro-fanatical LibDem MP, Norman Baker, who reneged on his promise of a
referendum, and who argues that the EU "is central to the UK's economic
prosperity". Voting UKIP, in Seaford as in many other constituencies, means
putting a federalist into parliament. It risks prolonging the tenure of this
incompetent, wastrel, cowardly Labour regime.

Readers of this blog know that David Cameron and I don't agree about European
integration. I want an in-or-out referendum, and returned to the backbenches to
campaign for one. But David Cameron will be a million times better than Gordon
Brown as Prime Minister.

To repeat: Labour has introduced 111 tax rises since 1997, taken a trillion
pounds in additional taxation, and still left us with a Greek-level deficit:
12.6 per cent of GDP and rising. Of every four pounds Gordon Brown spends, one
is borrowed. Our national debt is rising by nearly 6,000 a second. We can't
afford another five weeks of this, let alone another five years.

What I'd ideally like - and what I assume my UKIP readers also aspire to - is a
situation where UKIP no longer needs to exist: where it can award itself a medal
and retire with honour, job done. Obviously, we're not at that point yet. But I
worry that every activist who deserts the Tories for UKIP is retarding the
prospects of a Euro-sceptic Conservative Party without taking his or her
energies to an alternative party of government.

I realise that I won't have convinced my UKIP critics with one short post. But I
would urge you to ponder one thing. Eventually, the issue will have to be
settled in a referendum. If we are to win that referendum, we shall need the
support of people on the Left, people on the Right and people in the Centre.
UKIP won't win on its own. So when you come across people in other parties who
believe in British independence, don't snarl at them, or tell them that their
support is worthless unless they join UKIP. Encourage them.

"Opinion in good men is but knowledge in the making," wrote our second-greatest
poet. If our arguments are as convincing as we like to think, we shall
eventually carry the day.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              77 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 20, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Freeze on immigration at centre of UKIP manifesto

BYLINE: Chris Smyth

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 190 words


Milton Keynes A five-year freeze on immigration will be the spearhead of the UK
Independence Party's election campaign as it seeks to target voters angry at
mainstream parties (Chris Smyth writes). Teenage boot camps, support for a free
Tibet and a campaign for "real matrons" also feature in the party's first full
manifesto.

Launching the document in Buckinghamshire, Nigel Farage, the former leader, said
that only UKIP could be trusted to give voters a real say in how Britain was
governed. He said that other parties were unwilling to tell the truth about
immigration. "The only people who should decide who settles here should be the
British people, but they can't do that in the EU," he said.

He denied that the party was chasing BNP votes, but said that UKIP would stop
disaffected mainstream voters from being tempted by the BNP. "We want to be the
party that can talk about immigration - we don't want that to be an extremist
party," he said. "We are the only party that talks about issues people are
talking about round the dining room table."

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the party leader, said UKIP was "no longer a
single-issue party".

LOAD-DATE: March 20, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              78 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

BRITAIN FACES RABIES THREAT;
Now Eurocrats plan to open our borders to infected dogs 'We don't want rabies
coming to this country'

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 489 words


KILLER disease rabies could return to Britain after more than a century if
controls on pet passports are relaxed within the European Union, experts warned
yesterday.

Strict rules requiring animals to be blood tested for rabies before they are
allowed into the UK will be scrapped next year as part of an EU bid to
"harmonise" pet travel across Europe.

Brussels officials claim that rabies, along with parasites, ticks and tapeworms,
is now rare and poses little threat.

But vets yesterday warned that the new lax rules could mean infected animals
brought into the country could pass on rabies to children because the disease is
still endemic across Eastern Europe.

Last night the Eurocrats were urged to leave the British system alone.

Shadow minister for animal welfare Richard Benyon said: "The current
arrangements have proved themselves effective. An end to these rabies measures
could prove very dangerous and we must fight to preserve them."

UKIP Euro-MP Paul Nuttall said: "Rabies is a terrifying disease. Nobody should
be able to decree that British people be put needlessly at risk. Rabies has not
been caught in the UK since 1902. We have to keep it that way."

At present, all dogs, cats and ferrets must be vaccinated against rabies seven
months before they travel to the UK and must then undergo a blood test to ensure
they are protected. But the new EU law, due to come into force in December 2011,
will scrap the delay between vaccination and travel, as well as the blood test.

It means owners will be able to wait to vaccinate their pets right up to the day
before they travel and the animals won't even be checked to see if the jab has
worked. Rabies expert Dr Paul Burr said: "We are going to get cases of rabies in
the UK just so that there can be harmonised pet travel .

"But dogs and cats are not my main concern. The people who are exposed are
children as they are the ones that tend to get bitten."

Dogs Trust veterinary director Chris Laurence said: "The fact is not all dogs
respond to the vaccine - about two per cent do not get immunity to the disease.
That would mean thousands of dogs coming in every year who could have rabies .

"We don't want rabies in this country - the consequences are quite dramatic. "If
there was a rabies epidemic, any pet dog could be seized and destroyed in
accordance with emergency public health measures."

Last night the Government said no decisions on the changes to UK rabies
quarantine or the pet travel scheme had been made. No Brussels official was
available for comment. An estimated 55,000 people die of rabies every year,
although almost all are in Asia and Africa.

Rabies was eliminated in the UK at the turn of the last century and the last
human death from rabies contracted domestically was in 1902. Other cases since
then were all acquired from abroad.

However, rabies remains prevalent over much of Eastern Europe and an outbreak
was reported just last week in wild bats in Sweden.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dogs can carry virus

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              79 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

BRITAIN FACES RABIES THREAT;
Now Eurocrats plan to open our borders to infected dogs 'We don't want rabies
coming to this country'

BYLINE: Nick Fagge

SECTION: NEWS; FRONT PAGE; Pg. 1,5

LENGTH: 476 words


KILLER disease rabies could return to Britain i f controls on pet passports are
relaxed within the European Union, experts warned yesterday.

Strict rules requiring animals to be blood tested for rabies before they are
allowed into the UK will be scrapped next year as part of an EU bid to
"harmonise" pet travel across Europe.

Brussels officials claim that rabies, along with parasites, ticks and tapeworms,
is now rare and poses little threat.

But vets yesterday warned that the new lax rules could mean infected animals
brought into the country could pass on rabies to children because the disease is
still endemic across Eastern Europe.

Last night the Eurocrats were urged to leave the British system alone.

Shadow minister for animal welfare Richard Benyon said: "The current
arrangements have proved themselves effective.

"An end to these rabies measures could prove very dangerous and we must fight to
preserve them."

UKIP Euro-MP Paul Nuttall said: "Rabies is a terrifying disease.

"Nobody should be able to decree that British people be put needlessly at risk.
"

At present, all dogs, cats and ferrets must be vaccinated against rabies seven
months before they travel to the UK and must then undergo a blood test to ensure
they are protected. But the new EU law, due to come into force in December 2011,
will scrap the delay between vaccination and travel, as well as the blood test.

It means owners will be able to wait to vaccinate their pets right up to the day
before they travel and the animals won't even be checked to see if the jab has
worked. Rabies expert Dr Paul Burr said: "We are going to get cases of rabies in
the UK just so that there can be harmonised pet travel.

"But dogs and cats are not my main concern. The people who are exposed are
children as they are the ones that tend to get bitten."

Dogs Trust veterinary director Chris Laurence said: "The fact is not all dogs
respond to the vaccine - about two per cent do not get immunity to the disease.
That would mean thousands of dogs coming in every year who could have rabies.

"We don't want rabies in this country - the consequences are quite dramatic. "If
there was a rabies epidemic, any pet dog could be seized and destroyed in
accordance with emergency public health measures."

Last night the Government said no decisions on the changes to UK rabies
quarantine or the pet travel scheme had been made. No Brussels official was
available for comment. An estimated 55,000 people die of rabies every year,
although almost all are in Asia and Africa.

The EBLV-2 strain of the disease killed wildlife artist David McRae after he was
bitten by a bat near his home in Guthrie, Angus, in 2002.

He was the UK's first rabies death in 100 years.

A bat carrying the same strain of the disease that killed Mr McRae was captured
in Perthshire last year. Rabies remains prevalent in much of Eastern Europe.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Dogs can carry virus

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              80 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 19, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

People vote for competence not policy

BYLINE: Adrian Hamilton

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 1033 words


Yes, yes. Of course the election is supposed to be about policies and not
personalities, and the main parties should be detailing just what precise cuts
they are planning to make to public expenditure, and just what they mean by
"family" and "society", and what is the "clear water" between them on a host of
issues from defence to education.

But in reality, as we all know, the British public makes its mind up not on
policies, nor even necessarily on self-interest, but on their judgement of which
side appears the better able to manage the country.

There are occasions when the voters put a decisive mark on change and reform.
The end-of-war vote of 1945 remains the most obvious and dramatic example. But
they are few and far between. Most people finally decide - other than through a
diminishing party loyalty - on whether one lot looks tired, whether another team
should be given a chance or whether the voters can't quite make up their mind.

It may not seem very ennobling. It may mean more often than not the public votes
against one party rather than for another. It certainly has not produced the
results that many of us might have wanted in any particular election. But, in a
peculiarly British way, it more often than not leads to a result that reflects
the broad consensus in the country.

In 1945, people wanted change. By 1950 the Labour government had exhausted
itself with reform and, if the electorate were still unconvinced by Churchill's
leadership of the Tories (as they had every reason to be), they weren't quite
ready to throw out Labour. The result was the slimmest continuing majority for
Clement Attlee before a new election 18 months later brought back Winston
Churchill and the Tories with a only a marginally more comfortable majority of
17.

By 1964, after 13 years of Tory rule, the public were equally - albeit still
uncertainly - ready to give Harold Wilson and Labour a chance again, but only
confirmed that decision on the experience of a year and a half in the election
of 1966. When Wilson returned to the hustings in 1970 it was with a Cabinet so
divided and a programme so shaken by the failure of union reform that Edward
Heath seemed the essence of a firmer and better economic team.

And when he dithered over the election timing and went to the country on a
platform of "Who Runs Britain" in February 1974, it was with a strangely
uncertain note, although not so uncertain as to give Harold Wilson a majority in
the Commons. Even when Wilson went back to the voters that Autumn, he still
gained a majority of no more than three.

How much actual support Mrs Thatcher had for her policies when she was returned
first in 1979 was debatable. But the desire to turf out Labour as no longer fit
for rule after the "Winter of Discontent" was palpable, just as the sentiments
turned the other way for Tony Blair's election in 1997, after the national
humiliation of Black Wednesday and our exit from the ERM.

The lot of the Liberal Democrats in this has always been, and may still be, as
the beneficiaries or otherwise of stronger passions about the main parties.
Despite the occasional surges of popularity accompanying a particular leader,
they have profited from the rejection of other parties rather than enthusiasm
for their particular policies.

In that sense, it is wrong to talk about the British voting for a hung
parliament. They don't. Nor do they have the mechanism for doing so in the
first-past-the-post system even if they wanted to. What they can, and do, is
vote against the ruling party while witholding their support for the main
opposition party that only a very narrow majority - or even not one at all -
emerges, as it did in 1964 and then a decade later.

It is always a mistake trying to draw historical parallels, especially when it
comes to elections. But, if anything, it would seem that we are in a 1964
situation. The public has decided that New Labour's day is done. And they are
right.

As with the Tories at the end of the prime ministership of Sir Alec Douglas
Home, there is the sense of an administration past its sell-by date. The Cabinet
is no longer a team. The party has the air of defeat. And the Prime Minister,
despite a dogged refusal to lie down, has all the air of a man promoted above
his level of competence.

The more he feels it necessary to speak on everything, from talent shows to
Afghan deaths, the lesser the man he appears. He can claim to understand
finance, although not excuse his part in its downfall. But he can't quite rise
to being a premier.

Yet the more the voter has turned his or her attention to the opposition, the
less impressed they have seemed to be. This is not a matter of fleshing out
policy, as some would have it. If anything David Cameron is over-active in
producing new policies, from teenage pregnancies to marriage vows.

But it is a question of straight competence. The more he talks of budgetary
discipline the less he, or his Shadow Chancellor, seems to have a command of the
policies he intends to pursue to bring the deficit down. It's not a matter of
detailed proposals, but a sense of "grip" in intention.

Yet there is no real sign that the public is ready to move enthusiastically to a
third party. This is not so much the fault of the Lib Dem approach, which has
tried to make itself eminently reasonable and electable, so much as the fact
that the protest vote is going to the BNP, UKIP, the Greens and the so-called
"fringe parties" (although none would accept that moniker) and even more,
perhaps, to those who won't vote at all.

This certainly makes the psephologist's task more difficult. But it also makes
this election infinitely more depressing. Here we are at a moment which, in
economic terms at least, is the most important in nearly 80 years and we have an
electorate that has lost faith with the Government, doesn't have confidence in
the main opposition party and is likely to vote in protest for the fringes if
they are going to vote at all.

In 1964 and again in 1974, we were at least talking about the real possibilities
of change, whatever the doubts about the individual parties. Now we view only
the possibilities of struggling on, one way or the other.

a.hamilton@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 19, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              81 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 19, 2010 Friday 6:20 PM GMT

Are the Tories saying too much?

BYLINE: By Benedict Brogan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 198 words


I'm presenting tomorrow's edition of the Week in Westminster on Radio 4. We've
got Glenys Kinnock on Samantha Cameron and Sarah Brown, a look at the ins and
outs of constant polling, and a lively argumentbetween UKIP's Lord Pearson of
Rannoch and Tory MP David Heathcoat-Amory on whether the parties should do a
deal on an in-out referendum in which Mr H-A admits Tories will vote for UKIP's
policy - on grammar schools.

I've also interviewed Chris Patten, the last Conservative chairman to mastermind
a general election victory for the Tories. He backs Dave but worries they
haven't been successful at sticking above the 40pc mark. "The party is not as
popular as its leader, which is an important point in David Cameron's favour. If
anything they have perhaps said too much rather than too little about what
they'd do." Being candid about how tough things are going to be means DC has not
given voters as much of a sense of hope as Lord Patten would like. Of his
experience in 1992, he points out that the Tories then, even at the height of a
recession, had the benefit of the doubt. He reckons DC has it this time too, and
Gordon Brown doesn't. Do tune in at 11 tomorrow morning if you can.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              82 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

UKIP leader is totally in tune with voters' concerns;
Letters

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 118 words


WHAT a refreshing change to come across someone in politics who understands what
ordinary citizens want to see debated over the next six weeks ("let us debate
the real issues in the election campaign", March 16).

I can't claim that UKIP leader lord Pearson speaks for everyone but he hit the
right note with me. I was also pleased that, unlike many commentators, he did
not mention what may or may not happen under another five dismal years of a
labour government.

Be under no illusions that if labour wins the election, it will be ideally
placed to complete its plans for the total domination of UK politics for many
years to come and what modicum of democracy remains will be obliterated.

Martyn Redmore, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              83 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 17, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

UKIP leader is totally in tune with voters' concerns;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS 126; 38

LENGTH: 118  words


WHAT a refreshing change to come across someone in politics who understands what
ordinary citizens want to see debated over the next six weeks ("Let us debate
the real issues in the election campaign", March 16).

I can't claim that UKIP leader Lord Pearson speaks for everyone but he hit the
right note with me. I was also pleased that, unlike many commentators, he did
not mention what may or may not happen under another five dismal years of a
Labour government.

Be under no illusions that if Labour wins the election, it will be ideally
placed to complete its plans for the total domination of UK politics for many
years to come and what modicum of democracy remains will be obliterated.

Martyn Redmore, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: March 17, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              84 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday

AGENT SHALIT SEALS DEAL WITH HIS LOVE

BYLINE: BY RICHARD KAY

LENGTH: 1269 words


HE HAS escorted any number of glamorous starlets, but true love has long eluded
single-manabouttownJonathan Shalit. But not any more -- for he has, I can
reveal, popped the question to clothes designer Katrina Sedley.

Theatrical agent and bon viveur Shalit, 47, got down on one knee at The Ivy at
the weekend -- having first sought and gained the approval of Katrina's two
grown-up daughters by a previous marriage. Both girls -- Jessica, 23, and Sofia,
20 -- were present as Shalit proposed to their mother.

Shalit, who has dined more than 1,000 times at The Ivy in the past five years,
had arranged with the celebrity-strewn restaurant to provide him with a plate
embossed with chocolate letters spelling out: 'Katrina, I totally love you.
Please will you marry me? Jonathan xxx.'

A tearful Katrina accepted immediately, whereupon she was presented with a
sparkly red ring bought in nearby Covent Garden.

'I'm going out to do some serious engagement-ring shopping this week,' says
Shalit. 'I'm just thrilled Katrina said "yes" straightaway, because all I want
to do is to marry her. We share a love of life and especially of entertainment,
which -- of course -- is my business as well as my passion.'

The proposal followed a romantic fortnight in the Four Seasons Hotel in Los
Angeles. During their stay, the couple, who were introduced by a mutual friend
six years ago, took in the Oscars and a string of dinners with Hollywood
figures. At the end of it, Katrina presented Shalit with a mock Oscar engraved
with the legend: 'The Oscar for the best boyfriend goes to Jonathan. Katrina.'

The couple will be married this summer at the West London Synagogue by Rabbi
Mark Winer. Katrina will be moving into Shalit's Kensington home.

The impresario has dated a string of beautiful women but has remained coy about
commitment until now. Over the years, he has masterminded the careers of stars
such as Charlotte Church and Myleene Klass.

Katrina, 49, has been married twice previously. She and her first husband, the
father of her children, were divorced, while her second husband died of cancer
in 2003.

Six years ago, her then schoolgirl daughter Jessica caused a sensation at the
Tory conference when she became the youngest female to address the party's
gathering.

HOW SHARKS TAMED RIVALS

SHaPely actress Hayley atwell (left) insists there's no rivalry between her and
former co-star ruth Wilson, despite the duo battling it out for best supporting
actress at this weekend's laurence olivier awards ceremony.

For the brideshead revisited star tells me they shared an unusual bonding
experience while filming US TV series The Prisoner in South africa.

'We sneaked off the set without telling anyone and went shark diving,' says
Hayley, 27. 'We had these huge three-metre great whites swimming around us while
we were in cages. My God, it was terrifying -- that is going to bond you with
whoever you're with.' The stunning brunette, who starred alongside Keira
Knightley in The Duchess, also firmly denied suggestions that she was ordered to
lose weight for her role as Julia Flyte in the brideshead film.

'I have never had a problem with that in this industry at all. It has never been
an issue. No director has ever said that to me,' she says.

'It goes to show I have been able to work in this industry without having to buy
into that ridiculous pressure.'

She adds that it is unlikely she would ever slim down for a part if asked
'unless I was playing someone who had an illness'.

VANITY FAIR LADY

IT MeMorably ran photographer Mario Testino's portraits of Princess Diana
shortly before her death. Now, Diana's niece lady Kitty Spencer (left) says that
when she completes her studies, she would like to work at New york-based glossy
Vanity Fair.

' I'm torn between fashion and politics,' says Kitty. 'My dream job would be to
work for Vanity Fair because that would combine both.'

Kitty, 19, is in her second year at university in Cape Town, where she is
studying psychology, politics and english literature. of her outdoor life in the
Cape, she admits it has not been all plain sailing. 'I can't swim and I can't
ride a bike,' she says.

'I got to South africa too late to learn how to swim. I nearly drowned on a
school camp.

'I got sucked out in a tide, but luckily there was a guy in a paddle boat who
rescued me.'

POOR old John Bercow. Already an object of scorn as Speaker in the House of
Commons, he has now fallen victim to a campaign of ridicule in his leafy
Buckingham constituency.

Emerging from the launch of a beer festival in nearby Winslow the other evening,
he was approached by a man dressed in a dolphin costume, who then chased him
down the street.

Avowed political opponent John Stevens, who is standing as an Independent
against Bercow and the Ukip contender Nigel Farage at the General Election,
says: 'I was not there, but I am told there was a very large dolphin waiting
outside his door to scare him.

'I believe it was organised by locals eager to topple him. It is wholly
unsurprising because there is an overwhelming disappointment over Bercow and his
expenses scandals. I gather Flipper was chosen as the name of the dolphin
because of the anger from locals who fail to understand why they have an MP who
has flipped homes quicker than they can say flip, avoiding the payment of
capital-gains tax. In order to topple him, we need a broad campaign.

'I don't think Ukip stand a chance but there's a very great feeling against
Bercow. Everyone wants him out.'

IT was hard to know where to look -- on one side of the room, scantily clad
girls were poledancing. On the other, Labour women -- struggling to make their
voices heard above the pulsating music -- boasted how the party had 'saved' the
NHs. This was the bizarre sight that greeted visitors to the Collection
nightclub in Chelsea, a favourite with footballers and glamour models but not
usually associated with politicians. sarah Brown and Baroness scotland were
among guests as expenses fiddler and junior health minister ann Keen took to the
platform to decry the Tories. singer sonique, who was in the bar below, says:
'I'm not political, but it does seem a strange choice of venue with all this
firebrand stuff and dancers writhing around a pole in the same room.'

aCTREss sheila Hancock was blissfully unaware of attempts by Left-wing BBC
scriptwriters to topple Mrs Thatcher with Doctor who storylines in the Eighties.
sheila, 77, who appeared in several episodes as an egotistical alien ruler who
used secret police to oppress dissidents, tells Radio Times: 'I was trying to do
Margaret Thatcher, but I just thought that was a brilliant bit of interpretation
on my part.' Did the show's executives ask her to try to bring down the
government with her caricature? 'Nobody did. would that they had, I would have
done it.'

PS

TO THE delight of racing fans, Sir Peter O'Sullevan, the Voice of Racing, will
be at the start of the Cheltenham Festival today.

Until last week, Sir Peter, 92, feared he would miss the festival for the first
time in 50 years because he couldn't leave his late wife's poodle, Topo, home
alone.

But to his relief, Sir Peter's housekeeper has now agreed to look after Topo for
the week. 'I suppose I could have smuggled her in as a last resort,' says Sir
Peter. 'I remember in the Fifties, Violet -- wife of the great equestrian
painter Sir Alfred Munnings -- used to smuggle her pekingese into Cheltenham in
her handbag. When the dog died, she had it stuffed and continued to bring it to
the races.

'When I suggested someone might complain, I was told not to bother until the old
man goes and she starts carrying him about. Very macabre.'

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              85 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

EU money spent on skiing trips and 'TV propaganda'

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 324 words


THE European Parliament has come under fire for spending millions of pounds of
taxpayers' money on a "propaganda" television service, ski trips and language
lessons for staff.

In a report, MEPs raised questions about the assembly budget, including concerns
about a £72,000 fund for parliament staff that was used to pay for a trip to the
Italian Alps for the children of MEPs and officials.

The report also attacked the annual £8million budget for Europarl TV, the
parliament's online TV channel. It broadcasts live parliamentary events,
including meetings, but has been condemned by some members as "glorified
propaganda".

Marta Andreasen, a Ukip MEP, called the channel a "joke", adding: "It is
farcical that British taxpayers are expected to foot the bill for others to
watch hours and hours of interminable debates that amounts to no more than
propaganda."

Details of how the parliament spends its £1.3 billion were contained in
amendments tabled by MEPs to a report on the parliament budget for 2008 by Bart
Staes, the Belgian Greens MEP.

"I am not sure that the fund was intended for skiing trips for employees'
children. This is something I find quite unjustifiable. This is taxpayers' money
that could be spent more wisely," he said. Mr Staes has called for more
transparency in the parliament's budget. He also expressed surprise at a
disclosure that 47,781 days were lost to sick leave in 2008, an average of eight
for each of the institution's 6,000 workers.

The document, which MEPs will vote on next week, also highlights other
controversial spending, including the £2.4million renovation of the parliament's
sports centre.

Mats Persson, of the Open Europe think tank, said: "This report illustrates the
complete disregard MEPs have shown for taxpayers' money. In this tough economic
climate, it is astonishing that the European Parliament continues to justify
spending money on luxuries such as ski holidays for its staff and their
children."

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              86 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Let us debate the real issues in the election campaign

BYLINE: Lord Pearson

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 904 words


INDULGE me for a moment. Imagine an election campaign that actually talked about
the things that really concern the British people rather than what the wives of
the party leaders think about their husbands. What are the issues that should be
tackled? What should the election be about?

I ask because this election will not be about the issues that really concern us:
mass immigration, massive waste in the public services, crime, the European
Union and our very democracy. These things will be avoided like the plague.

Why is this? Why is there no straight talking from those who fill our TV
screens?

The simple reason is that the power over these and so many other issues no
longer resides in Westminster, it has moved to Brussels. The promises of the
establishment political parties melt away like the grin on the Cheshire cat once
this stark reality shines upon them.

That's why they won't talk about immigration. The fact that 5,000 people a week
are moving to this country to live, a city the size of Southampton every year.
Last week all three establishment parties sang in harmony: Turkey must join the
European Union, they said. You heard that right, not content with throwing our
doors open to all European countries with the result that millions have moved
here they want Turkey to join as well.

DAVID MILIBAND, William Hague and the Lib Dems are all backing Turkish
membership. Oh how pleased they are to be able to agree with each other.
"Remarkable," they said and of course they are right. It is remarkable that they
all want to give 70million Turks the right to move to the UK. Madness might be
another word, or more like arrogance in the face of the wishes of the British
public.

We should be discussing our public finances. The political class has brought our
country to its knees. We look in pity at the Greeks humming and hawing about
whether to apply to the IMF to bail them out. In Greece they are freezing
publicsector wages (including for the highest paid politicians and the like),
cutting social security spending by 10 per cent, closing down bulging aspects of
the state and yet still the markets look with a wary eye.

Britain's deficit is similar but nobody is facing up to it. There is no mention
of the £45million a day going to Brussels in cash, part of the £120billion a
year cost of our EU membership, according to the Taxpayers' Alliance. No talk of
a publicsector wage freeze across the board. Cosmetic gestures targeting the top
10 per cent just will not do.

The public sector has been deliberately expanded at the expense of the
productive private sector. Public-sector pensions now cost each of us £516 a
year while most privatesector workers struggle by without proper retirement
provision. This iniquity will grow as time moves on and trouble will out.

The rise of the undemocratic quango industry must also be stopped. If ministers
believe that a service should be provided it should be provided by the ministry.
It would then be accountable and easily cut when no longer required.

Jobs and wealth creation should be on the agenda. Everybody knows most jobs in
the private sector are created by small firms yet nobody is setting
entrepreneurs free from the oceans of red tape which drown them. Instead we get
more and deeper problems with forms, bureaucracy and cost. Our post offices
close, our waste is not collected. We get equality laws that drive firms away
from employing women and lifestyle laws that penalise legal behaviour and
destroy our pub culture.

WE SHOULD be talking about the rise of political Islam. The attempted takeover
of Tower Hamlets in East London by a radical Muslim organisation should be a
wake-up to us all.

In a few years this country will be suffering from serious power shortages. Yet
there are no plans to address this as the Establishment refuses to see reality,
blinded by impossible dreams of carbon neutrality and the relentless swishing of
10,000 pointless windmills.

We should be discussing the horrifying rise in violent crime and why our legal
system puts the rights of the criminal ahead of the wishes of the decent
majority. Above all we should be talking about a serious devolution of power to
the people and away from the political class with binding national and local
referendums to make politicians do what real people want. The Swiss have been
doing this for years and it is surely an idea whose time has come.

We do not talk about these things and more for one very simple reason: our
political class is unanimous in its subservience to "Europe". Immigration? The
EU controls our borders. Job creation? Business regulations are created in
Brussels. The looming energy crisis? Environmental policy is dictated by
Eurocrats. Why can't we treat criminals as criminals and protect our people?
Because of European Human Rights legislation.

So why on earth are we not talking honestly about the very simple, very central
argument in all this: our relationship with Europe?

This election should be about who governs Britain. Should it be politicians
elected by the people of Britain? Politicians whom we can fire if they do not
perform or prove themselves corrupt and dishonest? Or should it be run by ranks
of foreign bureaucrats, unelected, unaccountable and immovable? Why shouldn't it
be the people themselves who have the power to govern? To ask the question is to
answer it. To answer it is to vote UKIP.

'Our political class has surrendered to the EU'

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRITAIN AND EUROPE: So much of our power has been exported to Brussels
Pictures: ALAMY; GETTY

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              87 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 16, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Let us debate the real issues in the election campaign;
LEADER

BYLINE: Lord Pearson

SECTION: LEADER 947; 12

LENGTH: 897  words


INDULGE me for a moment.

Imagine an election campaign that actually talked about the things that really
concern the British people rather than what the wives of the party leaders think
about their husbands. What are the issues that should be tackled? What should
the election be about?

I ask because this election will not be about the issues that really concern us:
mass immigration, massive waste in the public services, crime, the European
Union and our very democracy. These things will be avoided like the plague.

Why is this? Why is there no straight talking from those who fill our TV
screens?

The simple reason is that the power over these and so many other issues no
longer resides in Westminster, it has moved to Brussels. The promises of the
establishment political parties melt away like the grin on the Cheshire cat once
this stark reality shines upon them.

That's why they won't talk about immigration. The fact that 5,000 people a week
are moving to this country to live, a city the size of Southampton every year.
Last week all three establishment parties sang in harmony: Turkey must join the
European Union, they said. You heard that right, not content with throwing our
doors open to all European countries with the result that millions have moved
here they want Turkey to join as well.

DAVID MILIBAND, William Hague and the Lib Dems are all backing Turkish
membership.

Oh how pleased they are to be able to agree with each other.

"Remarkable, " they said and of course they are right. It is remarkable that
they all want to give 70million Turks the right to move to the UK. Madness might
be another word, or more like arrogance in the face of the wishes of the British
public.

We should be discussing our public finances. The political class has brought our
country to its knees. We look in pity at the Greeks humming and hawing about
whether to apply to the IMF to bail them out. In Greece they are freezing public
sector wages (including for the highest paid politicians and the like), cutting
social security spending by 10 per cent, closing down bulging aspects of the
state and yet still the markets look with a wary eye.

Britain's deficit is similar but nobody is facing up to it. There is no mention
of the ÂGBP 45million a day going to Brussels in cash, part of the ÂGBP
120billion a year cost of our EU membership, according to the Taxpayers'
Alliance. No talk of a public sector wage freeze across the board. Cosmetic
gestures targeting the top 10 per cent just will not do.

The public ector has been deliberately expanded at the expense of the productive
private sector. ublic-sector pensions now cost each of us ÂGBP 516 a year while
most private sector workers struggle by without proper retirement provision.
This iquity will grow as time moves on and trouble will out.

The rise of the undemocratic quango industry must also be stopped. If ministers
believe that a service should be provided it should be provided by the ministry.
It would then be accountable and easily cut when no longer required.

Jobs and wealth creation should be on the agenda. Everybody knows most jobs in
the private sector are created by small firms yet nobody is setting
entrepreneurs free from the oceans of red tape which drown them. Instead we get
more and deeper problems with forms, bureaucracy and cost. Our post offices
close, our waste is not collected. We get equality laws that drive firms away
from employing women and lifestyle laws that penalise legal behaviour and
destroy our pub culture.

WE SHOULD be talking about the rise of political Islam.

The attempted takeover of Tower Hamlets in East London by a radical Muslim
organisation should be a wake-up to us all.

In a few years this country will be suffering from serious power shortages. Yet
there are no plans to address this as the Establishment refuses to see reality,
blinded by impossible dreams of carbon neutrality and the relentless swishing of
10,000 pointless windmills.

We should be discussing the horrifying rise in violent crime and why our legal
system puts the rights of the criminal ahead of the wishes of the decent
majority. Above all we should be talking about a serious devolution of power to
the people and away from the political class with bindin g national and local
referendums to make politicians do what real people want. The Swiss have been
doing this for years and it is surely an idea whose time has come.

We do not talk about these things and more for one very simple reason: our
political class is unanimous in its subservience to "Europe". Immigration? The
EU controls our borders. Job creation? Business regulations are reated in
Brussels. The looming energy crisis? Environmental policy is dictated by
Eurocrats. Why can't we treat criminals as criminals and protect our people?
Because o f European Human Rights legislation.

So why on earth are we not talking honestly about the very simple, very central
argument in all this: our relationship with Europe?

This election should be about who governs Britain. Should it be politicians
elected by the people of Britain? Politicians whom we can fire if they do not
perform or prove themselves corrupt and dishonest? Or should it be run by ranks
o f foreign bureaucrats, unelected, unaccountable and immovable?

Why shouldn't it be the people themselves who have the power to govern? To ask
the question is to answer it. To answer it is to vote UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: March 16, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BRITAIN AND EUROPE: So much of our power has been exported to Brussels

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              88 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 15, 2010 Monday

UK 'WILL PAY FOR GREEK RESCUE'

BYLINE: BY KARL WEST CITY CORRESPONDENT

LENGTH: 332 words


THE UK taxpayer could still end up forking out for the bailout of debt-stricken
Greece despite Treasury assurances, politicians warned last night.

The fears come as eurozone finance ministers are today expected to discuss a
package of aid worth tens of billions of euros for the ailing country.

Philip Davies, Tory MP for Shipley, last night said it would be 'unacceptable'
for UK taxpayers to be asked to pay any money to help Athens.

And he urged Gordon Brown to give a cast-iron guarantee that it would not
happen. He said: 'We always fear the worst with this Government.

'Perhaps the Prime Minister should give a categoric assurance that not one penny
piece of UK taxpayers' money will go towards bailing out Greece. We've got
enough financial problems of our own without having to bail out another
irresponsible country.'

Despite claims to the contrary from the Treasury, UKIP MEP Nigel Farage claimed
Britain will not be spared from the burden of a Greek bail-out, saying 'it is
certain that Britain will bear the brunt'.

He added: 'Our public deficit is as bad as Greece's yet we will still be bailing
them out and it will cripple us.

'The fact we are not in the eurozone makes no odds. We will not be sheltered
from it.' The rescue will not only help Greece pay down its spiralling debts,
but is also expected to shore up confidence in the euro, which has been hammered
in recent weeks as investors feared it could be brought down by the crisis.

Details of the financial lifeline were still being worked out over the weekend,
but it is thought the 16 countries that make up the eurozone will all be asked
to contribute loans or loan guarantees.

Reports suggested eurozone finance chiefs may be ready to agree a 6 22.6billion
handout, led by Germany. Greece's borrowing needs for this year total
648billion.

A Treasury spokesman insisted any rescue package for Greece would not involve a
contribution from Britain, adding: 'This is a euro zone thing, so it's nothing
to do with us or UK taxpayers.'

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              89 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 15, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ashton blamed again as divisions delay launch of EU diplomatic corps

BYLINE: Martin Banks

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 568 words


BARONESS ASHTON, the European Union's foreign minister, was accused yesterday of
political weakness as she was blamed for an impasse that will significantly
delay the creation of a new EU diplomatic corps.

The service, under her leadership, was supposed to have been established by next
month, but sources say that in-fighting between the EU institutions means it
will now be summer before it is ready.

As the EU's high representative, it has fallen to Lady Ashton to lay the
foundations of the diplomatic corps, called the European External Action Service
(EEAS).

While she was due to outline her plans on Wednesday, insiders say it is
"unlikely" she will be ready.

There are a clutch of outstanding issues that need to be resolved between the
European Commission and member states over the shape and scope of the service.

A key obstacle is over who will be responsible for the appointment of heads of
delegations and staff to the EU's 136 overseas missions.

At present, the European Commission decides such appointments but, under the
Lisbon Treaty, which was ratified last December, Lady Ashton, as high
representative, should be in charge. A meeting last Thursday between Lady Ashton
and José Manuel Barroso, the commission president, failed to resolve outstanding
issues surrounding the corps.

The stand-off has provoked further attacks on Lady Ashton, who has faced a
stream of criticism since taking up her post in December.

As the high representative, a job created by the Lisbon Treaty, she has a
20-strong staff, chauffeured car and earns more than Gordon Brown, with a salary
package of £325,000.

However, with the commission saying that it should continue to manage the
delegations, the tug-of-war over key nominations is set to intensify over coming
weeks.

Charles Tannock, a Tory MEP, said that any delay in creating the EEAS would be
"a direct result and reflection" of Lady Ashton's "weakness".

He said: "She could have shown strong leadership by knocking heads together and
imposing her own authority on this. As it is, a massive turf war between the
commission and member states has broken out and there is now huge debate about a
number of things regarding the service.

The problem is that she is learning on the job and others are taking advantage
of this."

Nigel Farage, a UK Independence Party MEP, said: "She could have stopped this
inter-institutional in-fighting by insisting that responsibility lies with the
high representative, not the commission, but she has failed to do so.

"This is down to her weakness and lack of political skills that now threatens to
delay the creation of this new service.

She doesn't command respect and the penny is starting to drop in Europe." As
well as being criticised for failing to assert her authority, Lady Ashton has
come under fire on other fronts, including her failure to visit Haiti swiftly
after the earthquake in January and her failure to attend a meeting of EU
defence ministers and the Nato leadership last month.

She was sent a letter last week by David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, and
onetime favourite to do her job, who voiced concern about in-fighting between EU
institutions, and attacked by his Swedish counterpart, Carl Bildt, for failing
to take full control of the EEAS.

Michael Spindelegger, Austria's foreign minister, said there was "huge
frustration among member states that the whole [EEAS] issue would be steered by
the commission".

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              90 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 15, 2010 Monday

G2: Interview: 'I'm very pessimistic about the future of the BBC': John Simpson
talks to Stephen Moss

BYLINE: John Simpson

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 2520 words


The BBC is very jumpy these days, and usually when you interview one of their
bigwigs they insist on a PR person sitting in - to make sure nothing
controversial gets said. But John Simpson, the corporation's grandly titled
world affairs editor, is such a bigwig that on this occasion it is he who has
done the insisting. He makes it clear to me when we meet at his agent's offices
in Chelsea that he didn't have to bring the PR along - he is a freelance and not
subject to staff rules - but he wanted to because he has no intention of holding
back and he wants the Beeb to know exactly what he said.

We are meeting to discuss his new book, Unreliable Sources, an exhaustive (and
sometimes exhausting) 600-page history of the 20th century, as seen through the
eyes of the British media. Everything from the Boer war to the Iraq war, via the
Somme, Hitler and Suez, with a few brave and reliable reporters mentioned in
dispatches amid a worrying number of egoists, charlatans and fantasists. But
before we talk about the book, he wants to get something off his chest. "There
are all sorts of things that have happened in journalism and in British national
life which are really quite ugly," he says, almost before I've had time to ask a
question, "and I would say having looked at it all that it dates from the
arrival of Rupert Murdoch in British newspaper life. He's not totally a bad
thing. If it weren't for him I think we would probably have three newspapers
left - the Times would have vanished and I'm not sure about the Sunday Times -
and I don't want to beat him around the head for everything. But I do think that
he and the newspapers he's run have introduced an uglier side, an abusive side,
into journalism and life in general in this country."

He says this Murdochisation of national discourse, which was at its height in
the UK with the Sun in the 80s, has now migrated to the US. "Murdoch encouraged
an ugly tone, which he has now imported into the US and which we see every day
on Fox News, with all its concomitant effects on American public life - that
fierce hostility between right and left that never used to be there, not to
anything remotely like the same extent."

In truth, Simpson's charge is as much cultural as journalistic. He doesn't like
the way in which debate is now conducted, hankers after the understated 50s
Britain in which he grew up. "I watched something on the news yesterday - Nigel
Farage from Ukip, abusing this poor, rather pathetic little Belgian guy, and I
thought, 'I can't believe this is a British voice.' The British until relatively
recently, well into my lifetime, were still known for their calm and their
politeness and their cutting humour, and now we're known for our abuse. There
has been a coarsening of our national life, in which the Sun and the Murdoch
empire have played a very undistinguished part."

This makes Simpson sound a bit of a fuddy-duddy, a grumpy old man, but his
twinkling eyes and perpetual grin play against that stereotype. He is 65 but
shows no sign of slowing down (he is off to Iraq again a few days after we
meet), and says he plans to stay at the BBC - assuming they don't kick him out -
until at least 2016, when he will have clocked up half a century with the
corporation. He has a four-year-old son with his second wife, TV producer Dee
Kruger, and says he will have to be a wage earner until he's 80 to see his son
into adulthood.

"I've often said to myself that the day I wake up and think, 'Oh God, I've got
to go to Baghdad and I really don't want to do it,' that's the day I'm going to
jack it in." He doesn't anticipate that day coming any time soon. "I'm going to
Baghdad on Sunday and I'm really looking forward to it. It's going to be quite
nasty. We've got to do some things that you probably wouldn't want your nearest
and dearest to do. But that's the price you pay for going to interesting places.
I don't want to go to Baghdad and sit in the BBC bureau there, listening to
people telling me stories about their days in the Marines and the SAS. I want to
keep on - that awful expression - pushing the envelope."

Part of the appeal of Simpson is that he still likes to don the flak jacket and
dodge the bullets. He prefers as much as possible to experience life on the
streets, doesn't want to be embedded. "It's not some kind of moral disapproval
of the principle. I think embedding is very useful and helpful; it's just that I
don't like it personally. I don't want to spend my whole time with people to
whom I owe my safety, my protection, my food, my transport, and then be expected
to be completely honest about them, because there's always that sense that
you're betraying a trust. It's much better just to wander out and be on your
own."

A good principle, though it cost him the hearing in his left ear and almost cost
him his life when he and his production team were hit by US friendly fire in
northern Iraq in the war of 2003. "I lost the eardrum, and I've got this large
lump of shrapnel in my arse," he says. "It tells me when it's going to rain.
It's also a wonderful guide to the quality of metal-detection systems at
airports. Mostly it doesn't ring, but when it does they check around your lower
regions, a very strange look comes across their faces, and they wonder whether
you've had some strange piercing somewhere."

Simpson joined the BBC in 1966, was a reporter in the 70s, was briefly political
editor in the early 80s (he hated the lobby system and makes sheep noises to
describe the herd - or flock - mentality of many political journalists), had an
equally brief stint reading the news at the time of the Falklands war, was
diplomatic editor in the mid-80s, and became world affairs editor as part of the
great Birtian revolution in 1988. How come he's stayed so long, albeit after
1988 in a freelance capacity that gives him an enviable degree of freedom? "It
was always better than anything I thought I could do outside," he says, "and by
better I'm not talking about money, because the money's never been any good at
the BBC, unless you are director general or scream abuse on television and radio
programmes. It's just that they've left me alone to be my own boss for such a
long time now and they've treated me nicely."

Mostly, anyway. He was sacked as presenter of the Nine O'Clock News in 1982 - he
admits he wasn't much good at it - and put out to grass for a while. "The worst
thing about that period was how other people didn't want to know me," he
recalls. "It was very interesting but quite ugly; it was like being in Stalin's
Kremlin circa 1936. You could see other people thought they might catch
something from you, so they kept away. The first half of the 80s was a very
difficult time for me."

John Birt, the grandly titled new job and a string of remarkable reports - on
the Tiananmen Square massacre in 1989, the fall of communism (especially his
bullet-dodging reports on the last days of the Ceausescu regime in Romania), and
the first Gulf war - established his bulky frame and vivid, on-the-spot
reportage in the popular consciousness and he's never looked back. "I had a
string of amazing stories," he says. "The world changed and you couldn't fail."

It's hard to divorce Simpson's criticism of the coarsening effect of Murdoch
from the war between the BBC and News Corporation and his role as a defender of
the reporting role of the BBC, which he feels will be undermined if funding is
cut. "Murdoch and the Murdoch press stand to gain hugely from any damage that is
done to the BBC," he says. "Yet the very people who ought to be most protective
of the BBC, prime ministers for instance, can be its worst enemy. I've never in
my long years at the BBC been so ashamed of a prime minister as when Tony Blair
made some off-the-cuff and what he thought were off-the-record comments to
Rupert Murdoch about how the BBC hated America. Whatever did he think - that
Rupert Murdoch was a friend of his, who would spare his blushes? Of course
Murdoch blurted it all out."

Simpson fears the critics of the BBC are winning. "I'm very pessimistic about
the future of the BBC," he says. "This is something I really disagree about with
Mark Thompson. When I saw him recently we argued it out. He's very upbeat about
the future of the BBC, not just for public consumption but also in private, but
I'm not because I think it's an anomaly in today's world and the licence fee is
under such an intense amount of pressure. I don't think British people
understand what a huge voice the BBC now gives this country in the world. That
lays it open to endless attacks, usually on this ideological basis that it's a
tax, plus all the usual nonsense about how it's leftwing, or indeed rightwing if
you listen to other voices. It all seems quite childish to me, but nevertheless
those voices are louder than they've ever been in my life, and I've watched
these things for 44 years." He likens those who make bellicose noises about the
BBC - culture secretary Ben Bradshaw and his Conservative shadow Jeremy Hunt,
for instance - to "mechanics going into a Rolls-Royce garage with a spanner and
starting to lay about the bodywork".

In Unreliable Sources, a recurrent theme is the past feebleness of the BBC.
"Throughout its history I've been careful to note how timid it always was," says
Simpson. "One of the things I'm most proud of during my time there is how it's
thrown away the timidity. It hasn't thrown away the caution, and there are many
times when I think the management is too cautious, but it doesn't genuflect
before authority in the way that it used to."

This all makes Simpson sound dourly earnest as well as grumpily middle-aged. He
isn't really either of those things; you can sense his energy and good humour.
It's more that he's a civilised, literate man - read his three volumes of
journalistic memoirs and his book about his childhood - who feels that as a
society we are losing our bearings and that we seem too willing to throw the BBC
to the free-market wolves.

The age of blogging and crowd-sourcing does not appeal to him. "I suppose I fear
it," he says. "I despair, I really despair at times. You need to know nothing.
All you need to have is a loud opinion. It's like a kind of bigger version of
Hyde Park Corner on a Sunday morning. There's no check on anybody."

In the introduction to Unreliable Sources, he describes writing the book as a
"humbling experience". 'When I look back at the journalists who covered the
second world war," he tells me, "I realise that nothing that I've done stands
any kind of comparison with the things that (the BBC's) Richard Dimbleby or (the
Daily Express's) Alan Moorehead did. They went right through the war and saw the
whole thing."

He's done pretty well with limited material, I suggest. It's not his fault that
there hasn't been a major global conflagration on his watch. "It's a little bit
like being a Chinese scholar in some unfavourable dynasty," he says. "You just
sit and labour away writing the characters and hope that one day you might get
something interesting to write about."

Simpson is not usually seen as a modest man, and no doubt there is a
considerable ego there. But he may not be quite the ogre he is painted. Much of
the folklore relies on his claim to have liberated Kabul in 2001, but he says
that was a joke. "I forgot that the British press has no sense of humour, no
discernible sense of irony. It judges purely by what it reads in transcripts. I
said on the Today programme, when the questioner asked who liberated Kabul given
that the Taliban had fled even though the forces of the Northern Alliance hadn't
gone in, 'I suppose it was the BBC,' and I laughed. But it wasn't very clever of
me. Don't make jokes!"

He was the model for David Bradburn, the monstrous "BBC chief foreign editor" in
the comedy series Taking the Flak, shown last year on BBC2. The series was
written and produced by Tira Shubart, an American television producer with whom
Simpson lived for 10 years after the end of his first marriage. Was it her
revenge? "Who can say? There were times when it felt like it. It's one of those
things that ex-girlfriends do from time to time. I thought it was very amusing.
The only thing that irritated me was having anybody who might in any way be me
cheating on expenses or being mean to local staff, because I would think those
two were the worst crimes you could commit."

He may well be a bit of a monster - most journalists are crazed egoists, and you
don't last as long as him as a foreign correspondent without exceedingly sharp
elbows. But the monstrousness is rather endearing: he wants it all, to travel
everywhere, to be first in to the danger zone, to consume the world. He is a
brave reporter, a very good writer and an undoubted presence, a character in an
increasingly characterless journalistic age. He was mocked for donning a burqa
to get into Afghanistan in 2001, but wasn't that rather inspired, the sort of
tactic the pressmen from the Beaverbrook Express of the 30s - whose brio he
clearly admires - would have employed?

'If there's anything in this book that I really wanted to say, it is that proper
journalism isn't written sitting in offices at desks," he tells me. "The real
quality comes from people who go out and find things and report on them." He
says that if he was forced to choose between reporting in the early cold war
part of his career, when the worst that might happen to you was being arrested
by the KGB and kicked out of the country, and the much more dangerous later
period of asymmetric warfare, terrorism and kidnapping, he would choose the
latter. "I'd always want today, because it's much more complicated, much more
interesting, much more difficult, and you've got to think about it more," he
says. "You can't just drift into it."

If his health holds up, he will go on and on. "It's being alive," he says of his
need to report from far-flung, often dangerous places. "I'm a very supportive
member of the Garrick (Club) and I love it very dearly. It used to have a big
clutch of old correspondents, famous old journalists. They always used to sit in
the same place and as you walked past you would hear wafted on the air the names
of government ministers you hadn't thought of for 30 years. I remember once
hearing somebody say Ray Gunter . . . 'When Ray Gunter was minister of Labour' .
. . and I thought, 'That's a name that's been silent in the annals of history
ever since he left office.' I don't want to be one of those people whose life in
effect came to an end one day, and now all you can do is talk about the past."

Unreliable Sources is published by Macmillan, price £20. To order a copy for
£18, including free UK mainland p&p, go to guardian.co.uk/bookshop, or call 0330
333 68467.

Captions:

'I've got this large lump of shrapnel in my arse. It's a wonderful guide to the
quality of metal-detection systems at airports' . . .

John Simpson Portrait by Martin Godwin

Donning a burqa, 2001

Entering Kabul, 2001

In Zimbabwe, 2008

On University Challenge, 1965

With ex-girlfriend Tira Shubart, 1991

Getting injured by US friendly fire, 2003

Simpson presents

the BBC news, 1974

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              91 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 15, 2010 Monday
                                 1 Star Edition

'DWARF' JIBE TORIES SPARK FRENCH FURY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 123 words


DAVID Cameron reportedly mocked French President Nicolas Sarkozy as a "dwarf",
sparking a diplomatic row.

The French Government is said to have lodged an official protest after Mr
Cameron allegedly joked about "hidden dwarfs" as he showed a photo of Mr Sarkozy
in his office.

And days later Shadow Chancellor George Osborne was filmed referring to a stand
under a speaker's podium as a "Sarkozy box" and giggling.

Last week Mr Sarkozy attacked Mr Cameron over his isolationist policy on Europe.

And yesterday ex-Conservative MEP Edward McMillan-Scott accused Mr Cameron of
"shielding europhobes" after Lord Tebbit last week "encouraged" Tories to vote
Ukip in Buckingham against Speaker John Bercow, a former Tory MP, in the general
election.

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: INSULTED President Sarkozy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              92 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 March 14, 2010

Former Tory Euro leader condemns party 'bullying'

BYLINE: Toby Helm and Anushka Asthana

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 605 words


The former leader of the Tories in Europe launches a scathing attack on David
Cameron's Conservatives today, accusing them of "visceral euroscepticism",
"twisted" thinking and bullying tactics that forced him out of the party.

Edward McMillan-Scott, who defected to the Liberal Democrats on Friday, has also
accused the Tories of "extraordinary double standards" for expelling him
permanently, having only suspended Lord Archer, who was sentenced to four years
in prison for perjury in 2001.

Writing in today's Observer, McMillan-Scott, who remains a vice-president of the
European parliament, says the Tories unleashed a "campaign of vilification"
against him after he claimed that Michal Kaminski, the Polish MEP who now leads
their centre-right group in the EU, had an antisemitic, homophobic and racist
track record.

A strong pro-European and member of the Tory party for 43 years, McMillan-Scott
gives voice to years of frustration at the party's hostile attitudes to the EU
under present and past leaders, including William Hague.

In his outspoken attack on the party over its handling of his expulsion,
McMillan-Scott says he has been smeared by Tory press officers who have tried to
claim he is the one who holds antisemitic views.

He adds that they have distorted facts about his defection and claims the party
produced no documents to support its case when he appealed against expulsion. "I
am not bitter, but they are twisted. It is not a nice party now," he writes.

He accuses Cameron of tolerating eurosceptics who depart from the party line
while persecuting him, a pro-European, for daring to express sincerely held
doubts about the leadership credentials of a controversial fellow MEP.

"David Cameron shields his Europhobes," he writes. "No murmur was made when last
weekend Lord Tebbit in effect encouraged Conservatives to vote Ukip in the
general election against the Speaker, John Bercow. The dog whistle is really at
a lower pitch: that Ukip supporters know that there is a real home for them,
back in the Conservative party."

Last night, speaking from the Liberal Democrat spring conference in Birmingham,
McMillan-Scott said the Tory party had shown "massive double standards" by
expelling him while suspending Archer for five years.

When Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg mentioned McMillan-Scott's name at a
rally on Friday night there was a huge roar from activists. Yesterday he was
seated in the front row for a question-and-answer session, so Clegg could
welcome him.

The row over McMillan-Scott blew up last year when he stood for a post as
vice-president of the European parliament against Kaminski, who was Hague's
choice. Following McMillan-Scott's stand, Timothy Kirkhope, leader of the
Conservative MEPs, withdrew the whip.

On 15 September, without any prior notification, McMillan-Scott was expelled
from the Conservative party after 25 years as an MEP, four years as leader of
the MEPs and three years on the party's board.

Hague is also likely to come under fire if he declines an invitation to appear
this Thursday before a parliamentary committee investigating the granting of a
peerage to Lord Ashcroft .

The three Tory members of the public administration committee - David Burrowes,
Ian Liddell-Grainger and Charles Walker - have already said they will not attend
the one-off meeting, at which confidential Cabinet Office records relating to
the decision to grant Ashcroft a peerage in 2000 will be discussed.

But the event is now in danger of running into farce. Ashcroft, a "non-dom" who
does not pay UK tax on his overseas earnings, is unlikely to appear in person
and Hague, too, looks doubtful.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              93 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 March 14, 2010

I had to leave the Tories. They shield europhobes - it is not a nice party now

BYLINE: Edward McMillan-Scott

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 715 words


William Hague has been using positive words to describe the Conservative party's
future relations in government with our EU partners. I have been around the
higher circles of the party for long enough to know that a visceral
euroscepticism has been growing there since John Major's day. I had a stand-up
row with Hague when, while leader of the Tory MEPs, he tried to get me to back
his "Never to the Euro" ticket.

It was chilling to hear the then party leader say to one very senior spokesman
at an EU meeting some years ago: "We can say what we like here, but it will be
different when we are in government." I should have left then, instead of
carrying on the pro-European fight from within.

David Cameron shields his europhobes. No murmur was made when last weekend Lord
Tebbit in effect encouraged Conservatives to vote Ukip against the Speaker, John
Bercow, in the general election. The dog whistle is really at a lower pitch:
that Ukip supporters know that there is a real home for them, back in the
Conservative party. Dan Hannan MEP plays the same game, even declaring that he
had resigned his spokesmanship in Europe to campaign full-time for a referendum
on EU in-or-out. No slapdown there, either; certainly no expulsion. But then he
is a chum of Sam Cameron's; they were at Marlborough College together.

My decision to join the Liberal Democrats this weekend was made easier by the
vile letter the lawyers conducting my appeal against expulsion last year from
the Conservative party received last weekend. They described it to me as
"intemperate", and advised me that, since the party refused to supply any
documents about my expulsion, there was no hope of a fair final hearing next
Thursday at Tory HQ. So I withdrew from the appeal and thereby resigned from the
Conservative party I have served more or less faithfully for 43 years.

No doubt my successful stand for re-election last July as European parliament
vice-president against the "official" candidate from Poland's Law and Justice
party, Michal Kaminski, put forward by Cameron's controversial new group, caused
him some discomfiture. But the campaign of vilification against me when I
explained my reasons - that Kaminski had a recent antisemitic, homophobic and
racist past - was so bizarre that it began to attract attention.

Indeed, Toby Helm in this newspaper was the most attentive. He had been present
at the national commemoration in July 2001 of one of the most notorious
massacres of the second world war in Nazi-occupied Poland. At Jedwabne in July
1941, more than 400 Jews were rounded up by their Polish neighbours and herded
into a barn where they were burned.

At the time of the apology, Kaminski was the local MP and he made it his
business to organise opposition to the commemoration. He denies this now, as he
denies so much else of his easily discovered past, using the Nick Griffin
defence: "If I said it then, I would not say it today."

Last week Cameron was interviewed by the Jewish Chronicle and assured its
readers that he would bear down hard on extremism in Britain. This sits uneasily
with a man who propitiates it in Europe.

Conservative press officers hounded Labour over Damian McBride. The same pack
have been repeatedly reported to me by journalists as using heavy tactics. One
hapless Yorkshire Post journalist was called one week by six Tory boys demanding
a right of reply for Kaminski. He coolly and properly said that, if he accepted
that, he would also have to give space to Nick Griffin. The same team put it
about that I was antisemitic because I once met Hamas - actually to tell them to
stand for election. They are out again this weekend distorting the facts about
my defection to the Lib Dems. I am not bitter, but they are twisted. It is not a
nice party now.

A move to the Lib Dems is easier because I have known, liked and respected Nick
Clegg for some years, whether as a key negotiator on trade while Sir Leon
Brittan was EU commissioner or later as an MEP.

Most of my family are liberals and I am comfortable joining the Liberal family.
From being a liberal Conservative I have become a conservative Liberal. And it
is not a nasty party.

Edward McMillan-Scott is MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber and continues to sit
as an independent vice-president of the European parliament


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              94 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 March 14, 2010

Tories' former Euro leader slams party 'bullying'

SECTION: OBSERVER HOME NEWS PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 408 words


tried to claim he is the one who holds antisemitic views.

He adds that they have distorted facts about his defection and claims the party
produced no documents to support its case when he appealed against expulsion. "I
am not bitter, but they are twisted. It is not a nice party now," he writes.

He accuses Cameron of tolerating eurosceptics who depart from the party line
while persecuting him, a pro-European, for daring to express sincerely held
doubts about the leadership credentials of a controversial fellow MEP.

"David Cameron shields his Europhobes," he writes. "No murmur was made when last
weekend Lord Tebbit in effect encouraged Conservatives to vote Ukip in the
general election against the Speaker, John Bercow. The dog whistle is really at
a lower pitch: that Ukip supporters know that there is a real home for them,
back in the Conservative party."

Last night, speaking from the Liberal Democrat spring conference in Birmingham,
McMillan-Scott said the Tory party had shown "massive double standards" by
expelling him while suspending Archer for five years.

When Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg mentioned McMillan-Scott's name at a
rally on Friday night there was a huge roar from activists. Yesterday he was
seated in the front row for a question-and-answer session, so Clegg could
welcome him.

The row over McMillan-Scott blew up last year when he stood for a post as
vice-president of the European parliament against Kaminski, who was Hague's
choice. Following McMillan-Scott's stand, Timothy Kirkhope, leader of the
Conservative MEPs, withdrew the whip.

On 15 September, without any prior notification, McMillan-Scott was expelled
from the Conservative party after 25 years as an MEP, four years as leader of
the MEPs and three years on the party's board.

Hague is also likely to come under fire if he declines an invitation to appear
this Thursday before a parliamentary committee investigating the granting of a
peerage to Lord Ashcroft .

The three Tory members of the public administration committee - David Burrowes,
Ian Liddell-Grainger and Charles Walker - have already said they will not attend
the one-off meeting, at which confidential Cabinet Office records relating to
the decision to grant Ashcroft a peerage in 2000 will be discussed.

But the event is now in danger of running into farce. Ashcroft, a "non-dom" who
does not pay UK tax on his overseas earnings, is unlikely to appear in person
and Hague, too, looks doubtful.


LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              95 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 14, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

THE WEEK TO COME

BYLINE: ALEX SINGLETON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 245 words


MONDAY 15

The search for the wreckage of the Air France plane that crashed in the Atlantic
last year resumes. The Prince of Wales (left) opens British tourism week in
Newport. Gordon Brown hosts a reception for high-performing further education
centres. It's the 25th anniversary of the first dotcom internet name -
symbolics.com. And Panorama investigates the risk facing millions of users who
illegally download music (BBC1, 8.30pm).

TUESDAY 16

Greek state workers strike in protest at public sector cuts. The Cheltenham
Festival, "the greatest national hunt race meeting on the planet", begins. The
Royal Television Society's programme awards are announced, with Harry Hill and
Ant & Dec among those hoping for acclaim. Ed Balls debates Michael Gove in
Bermondsey.

WEDNESDAY 17

It's St Patrick's Day. Northern Ireland's First Minister Peter Robinson meets
President Obama for talks at the White House. Monthly unemployment figures are
released.

THURSDAY 18

Windsor Festival Spring Weekend opens, featuring musical, literary, family and
community events. Solar is published, a darkly satirical novel about global
warming by Ian McEwan.

FRIDAY 19

Ukip reveal their party policies at a one-day spring conference in Milton
Keynes. The Sport Relief 2010 weekend opens with Sport Relief Night, hosted by
Gary Lineker (BBC One, 7pm).

SATURDAY 20

Ideal Home Show opens at Earls Court.

SUNDAY 21

The Laurence Olivier Awards: Enron and Jerusalem lead the nominations.

Compiled by ALEX SINGLETON

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PAUL GROVER

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              96 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 14, 2010
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

After 13 years, welcome to the House of Straw;
ANALYSIS

BYLINE: JOHN CURTICE

SECTION: SPORT; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 586 words


WELCOME TO the House of Straw, the 300-seat replacement for the House of Lords
proposed by the Justice Secretary. It has only taken the Government 13 years to
make up its mind about the country's second chamber, but finally, on election
eve, it is to reveal its decision.

Jack Straw's new elected House will be very different from the Commons.

Although elections to the new body will take place at the same time as a general
election, they will use a system of proportional representation.

Meanwhile, only one third of the seats will be elected at any one time.

As a result, while we may not be sure whether the next House of Commons will be
"hung" - though our latest ICM poll today suggests it could well be - we can
safely presume that Labour's proposed new elected second chamber would be
perpetually without one party in control. Even though Labour have won the past
three general elections, including the first two by a landslide, our estimate of
what Mr Straw's new house would currently look like suggests that with 134
seats, the party would still be 17 seats short of a majority.

A newly elected government would usually be in an even weaker position.

It might not even be the largest party in the new second chamber. That would
almost certainly be the position facing any Tory government elected in May.

Yet in some ways the new body would not be that different from the Lords, which
nowadays consists almost entirely of people appointed for life and few who have
inherited their title.

The days when Conservatives dominate the Lords are long since over.

Rather the balance between the parties broadly reflects their voting strength at
recent Commons elections - Labour with 211 members outnumber the Conservatives
with 188, but if the Liberal Democrats, with 72 members, vote with the
Conservatives, the Government can be defeated. Indeed that is a fate that befell
Labour on no fewer than 25 occasions last year.

What however would disappear almost entirely is the group of 182 cross-bench
peers who do not belong to any party.

Few, if any, independents are likely to secure election, and especially so if
the electoral system is one where voters vote for parties rather than individual
candidates. Under threat too will be the 25 most senior Bishops of the Church of
England, who recently clashed with Harriet Harman over her equality legislation.

So, although its members will be unable to stand for reelection, Mr Straw's
proposed house would likely be a more partisan body than the current chamber.

Critics will argue that the independence of mind with which the Lords sets about
its job of examining the close detail of government legislation - a job the
Commons fails to do - will be weakened.

Certainly the government would have the assurance that any deal it made with one
of the other parties would be likely to stick.

However, this is to assume the new system does not open the door to Green, Ukip
and even BNP members.

Contrary to expectations, all three parties have profited from the introduction
of proportional representation in European elections - and Mr Straw is expected
to favour a similar version of PR for the new body.

If, as our estimate of what the new body would look like assumes, people vote
the same way as they do in general elections, the small parties will be left
bereft. But of that there is no guarantee.

John Curtice is Professor of Politics at Strathclyde University

The House of Lords today 704 peers ... and how it would look if the plan had
been introduced in 1997 300 elected members

LOAD-DATE: March 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The Lords are to be replaced by an elected second chamber

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              97 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 14, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

GRASS ROOTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 202 words


"Carlsberg don't make priests, but if they did ... " That's just one of the
posts on a Facebook page, above, set up in tribute to Fr Declan Boland of
Strabane. At the last count he had 436 fans, one of whom wrote: "[He's] a priest
that would make you never want to miss mass." Boland said he was humbled by the
tributes, although he hadn't been able to access the page himself. "I have to
admit that I'm a bit of a technophobe," he confessed.

- Strabane Chronicle The equality department of Newry & Mourne district council
has been urged to investigate comments made by two councillors during a stormy
monthly meeting. UKIP's Henry Reilly told the chamber that homosexuality is "a
highly destructive lifestyle", and the DUP's William Burns described it as
"totally unnatural". Council colleagues slammed the comments and requested that
they be investigated under Section 75 of the Northern Ireland Act.

The row erupted after Newry Rainbow Community was praised for hosting an event.
Reilly claimed that high rates of suicide and self-harm in the gay community are
due to "a highly destructive lifestyle, which should not be encouraged by this
council".

- Newry Democrat Send your observations to ireland@sunday-times.ie

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              98 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

'So what did Portsmouth win under the Tories?'

BYLINE: Jim White

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 723 words


Along-standing invitation to Gordon Brown to appear on the BBC's 'Match of the
Day 2' as a football pundit was withdrawn this week as it was felt, with an
election imminent, it would breach the corporation's rules on impartiality.
However, rather than dispensing with the Prime Minister's trenchant views on the
offside law, maybe there was a better solution... Adrian Chiles: Hello and
welcome to Match of the Day 2. On the sofa tonight I'm delighted to be joined by
three newcomers to the world of punditry, the party leaders, Gordon Brown, David
Cameron and Nick Clegg. And if you were hoping to see the other Nick, Griffin,
he's on our athletics programme over on BBC4, denying that Jesse Owens won a
gold medal at the 1936 Berlin Olympics. Anyhow, without further ado gentlemen,
let's have a look at this afternoon's match between Portsmouth and Manchester
United.

[Tape runs of the highlights. As the post-match interviews finish, the camera
finds Chiles once more.] AC: So Gordon, what did you make of that? Did Rooney
really mean to do that, do you think? GB: Before I turn to that, Adrian, may I
say what a privilege it is to be here. I have watched your programme for a very
long time and always admired both you and it.

DC: With respect Adrian, if I may step in here. I find it incredible that the
Prime Minister can come on here and express his admiration for you and your
programme, when the fact is he and his party have been in power for 13 years and
this is the first we have heard from him about this very sensitive issue.

GB: As you know well, Adrian, in a very real sense moving forward my admiration
for you and your programme is well documented. DC: I'm sorry, but where exactly
was the Prime Minister when Gabby Logan stood in while you were on holiday,
Adrian? And what was his opinion when you decided to grow a beard? You know,
it's all very well him telling us how much he admires you, but these are the
issues that matter, these are the things the country craves leadership on. And
frankly, where was he when the stubble first started to blue up your chin? GB:
Let me say this, Adrian. In the forthcoming Budget, my government is to pledge
help for all those up and down the country like you who - due to world economic
conditions beyond the control of this government - are unable to afford a razor.
Our blade credit swap tax voucher scheme will be the envy of the hirsute world.
The Tories, on the other hand, promise only to cut such essential services and
would have the whole country wearing beards.

DC: The Prime Minister knows full well that once again his party has stolen a
policy from us. It was we who proposed an exemption from inheritance tax for all
skincare products, allowing shaving equipment to cascade down the generations.
AC: If I could move things on. Prime Minister, this game was all about debt.
Portsmouth are on the verge of collapse under the weight of their borrowing and
Manchester United owe more than Zimbabwe. What's your feeling about debt and
football? GB: As I have said many times before, the issue is about investing for
future growth. The hard-working families of the Portsmouth and United players
deserve the opportunity to enjoy the benefits of sustained investment. AC: But
Portsmouth are in administration. GB: Yes, but I think you'll find that they are
also in the FA Cup semi final. Plus, you will recall that under this government
they won the Cup two years ago. And how many times did they win the Cup under
the Tories? AC: Can I bring the leader of the Lib Dems in here. Nick, for a long
time this game looked as if it would finish in a draw. What would your position
have been had it even? NC: Well, this is the problem with football's obsession
with the firstpast-the-post system, Adrian. Surely things would be much better
if, before kick off, all participants had known there would be no overall
winner. AC: Yes, but who would you have backed in such an event? NC: At this
stage you really cannot expect me to say. So I'd rather stay on the fence on
that if I may.

AC: I'm afraid that's all we have time for gentlemen, thank you. Join us again
next week for coverage of the European Championship game between England and
that pretty much a non-country, Belgium, when my guest will be UKIP's Nigel
Farage.

Comment on Jim White's view at >> telegraph.co.uk/personalview

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              99 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FRANK BILL'S BRIT SPECIAL

BYLINE: kEVIN FRANCIS

SECTION: SPORT 383; 39

LENGTH: 358 words


FRANK MALONEY has vowed to back the best of British in all of his future
promotions.

Maloney staged a bill entirely made up of boxers from these shores in Nottingham
last month.

And he is aiming to repeat that feat at Leigh Sports Village next Friday with a
show that will be televised on Sky Sports.

Maloney said: "It's much better for the British public.

"The fans appreciate fights between British fighters and know exactly what sort
of test the fighters are having.

"It is also good to keep domestic fighters busy and give them decent exposure,
even though you are occasionally making matches you would prefer to avoid."

Maloney insists that does not mean the end of imported ourneymen boxing on his
talent stacked shows. He added: "I was lucky in Nottingham with no pull-outs and
the Leigh bill is holding up well with less than a week to go.

"Sometimes British fighters pull out late, leaving you in the lurch and you end
up without a fight or paying over the odds for a late domestic sub because they
know they could be saving the show.

"Imports are generally reliable.

You make them an offer and all they want to know is how much, how many rounds
and have they got a hotel room.

"I think the problem is that sometimes the quality of them is not what you
expect.

"I put my hands up with three Latvians I booked a few months ago, and I saw
another very poor quality European last week on a show I attended. That is a
headache for promoters and the British oxing Board of Control who rubber-stamp
overseas fighters."

Maloney will be standing as a UKIP candidate in Barking, east London, against
BNP leader Nick Griffin at the forthcoming General Election and is currently
putting the finishing touches to next week's show.

Olympic bronze medallist David Price (4-0) will face his first British opponent
as a professional.

The heavyweight hopeful will face Heywood's Martin Grainger (3-2) in a four-
rounder.

Heading Maloney's card is Belfast's "Mr Excitement" Martin Lindsay (15-0) who
defends his British featherweight crown against Cwmbran's 2002 Commonwealth
Games gold medallist Jamie Arthur (16-2).

EMAIL your news and views to kevin.francis@dailystar.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: HOME PRIDE: Frank Maloney is fiercely loyal to his British boxers

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              100 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday

National: Simon Hoggart's week: EU? It's just an abusive imps' tea party

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 944 words


Like most people - or at least most Guardian readers - I have little time for
Nigel Farage, the once and future leader of Ukip. I suspect he is one of those
people who wakes up sweating every morning in case he isn't mentioned anywhere
in the newspapers.

As for their other MEP, William, Earl of Dartmouth, I'm also not sure about the
cut of his jib, whatever that means. They have both made moderately abusive
speeches in the parliament lately. Farage called Herman van Rompuy, the EU
president, "a damp rag". For this he was fined euros 3,000 (£2,700), a lot of
moolah even in Strasbourg, where money cascades from the trees. The earl said
that it was absurd for countries such as Cyprus and Greece to have a policy on
the Arctic.

He added that this was as bizarre as the appointment of Lady Ashton as the EU's
high representative, at which point his microphone was switched off and he was
escorted from the chamber.

This was no doubt their plan. But what kind of congress is it that punishes
people for knockabout abuse? That silences its members when they say anything
which might give offence to anyone in authority - unelected authority at that?
If the same rules applied at Westminster, we'd have a dozen MPs left. Europe
doesn't have a parliament; it's a tea party with pretensions.

I'm delighted the election is going to be held in May. I'll be travelling round
the country in the weeks leading up to it, and parts of Britain in spring are
still sensational. North Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Devon - here are some of
the loveliest villages in the country. And the literary festival season is
beginning.

I gather there are more than 150 of these in this country every year, some of
them held in places most of us have never heard of. Tonight I'm speaking in
Bridport, Dorset, one of our most glorious counties, free of motorways, but with
the fabulous Jurassic coast.

This, literally, used to be where Namibia is now, though a long time ago. Last
week I was in Saffron Walden, north Essex, which is crammed with wonderful
houses. I stayed with old friends, who left Hackney a few years ago, and we had
dinner with other refugees from London. We talked about the way you learn about
an area from its local newspaper placards; Radio 4 recently ran an item about
exactly that.

A woman moved to East Anglia - the last placard she saw in east London was "Boy
stabbed for 50p"; the first she saw in her new village read: "Bus driver was
rude, says passenger."

They had spotted a couple of recent Essex ones: "Man dents Volvo" (he was
jumping over a wall and struck it by accident) and the best, "Cadbury's creme
egg smashed into lock."

One member of our party was Clare Mulley, whose book The Woman Who Saved the
Children is just out in paperback. It's about Eglantyne Jebb, who founded Save
the Children, and it has something I have never seen on a cover before, an
endorsement by Gordon Brown. "A truly brilliant book," he says.

Apparently the prime minister read it on holiday and was moved to supply this
encomium, unprompted. And he's right - it's a very good read, telling an
extraordinary story. Whether Gordo's tribute will sell any copies is a very
different matter. But it is a hefty volume, just right for throwing at an aide.

Went to see Alice in Wonderland. Good start, went on too long. Judging from the
trailers, most films are going to be in 3D soon. If so, I hope they use the
technique more sparingly: 3D in real life never looks like a 3D film, with its
yawning vistas, succession of flat planes, and objects flying towards you for no
obvious reason. When Technicolor came in, every film looked like a child's
paintbox. Then film-makers realised we would take colour for granted, and
started using it more modestly.

What could happen is that the classics are remade in 3D. In Brief Encounter, the
screen would be half-filled with gigantic rock cakes in the station buffet, with
Trevor Howard and Celia Johnson tiny figures in the distance. When he takes a
piece of grit out of her eye, the thing would hurtle towards us and half the
audience would duck.

In the week the John Lewis partnership reported massively rising profits and
gave staff a 15% bonus (averaging £2,100, or nearly eight weeks' pay) I was
mildly surprised to find loads of hoodies in Waitrose. They were perfectly well
behaved, but it was startling, like finding Tara Palmer-Tomkinson in a kebab
shop. Could it be that Waitrose is next for the fashion among the young and
restless for middle-class symbolism - the craze that nearly did for Burberry?
The most exclusive champagne houses now employ PRs to keep their names out of
the limelight and so below the riff-raff's radar.

We shall know when we next see a gang of youths marching down the street at
midnight snacking on olives in a pesto sauce, or chewing Duchy Originals organic
ginger and orange oatmeal cookies.

A press release from the Department of Health lands on my desk. It proudly
records events in Doncaster, where a "coughing bus shelter" has alerted people
to the dangers of lung cancer and helped bring about a substantial increase in
early diagnosis.

Confusing, I'd have thought. Passengers might have assumed that the bus shelter
was politely trying to tell them that their shoe laces were undone, or to call
attention in a very British way to someone queue jumping.

But if we are to be nannied by bus shelters, who not going the whole way? A
spitting bus shelter would warn of the danger from cancer of the oesophagus. A
screaming bus shelter in London would alert you that tickets now cost an
eye-watering £2 each, even for going one stop.

Captions:

Helena Bonham Carter's Red Queen in the 'too long' 3D Alice in Wonderland

LOAD-DATE: March 15, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              101 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Village People

BYLINE: Andy McSmith

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 408 words


Old Tory rebel returns as UKIP for his old seat

Philip Dunne, the Conservative MP for Ludlow, is a bit of a rebel, voting
against the majority of his Tory colleagues on issues such as raising MPs'
salaries, or making abortion law more restrictive. He opposed both. But he has
been a model of conformity compared with Christopher Gill, a sausage
manufacturer who preceded him as Conservative MP for Ludlow in 1987-2001. Gill
was one of the diehard, right-wing, anti-EU rebels who did so much to
destabilise John Major's government. He also complained that immigration had
made white people "almost exiles in their own country". And he was for bringing
back hanging and corporal punishment.

Now aged 73, Gill is back on the campaign trail, as the UK Independence Party
candidate for Ludlow. The only effect of his intervention - if it has any effect
at all - will be to destroy Dunne's majority, which was only 2,027 in 2005, and
let Heather Kidd, the Liberal Democrat candidate, take the seat. She is
understandably delighted. If you wonder why Gill might do such a thing, it is
because, like numerous old Conservatives, he loathes David Cameron and all who
travel with him. "I am standing against 'Call me Dave' Tories because I cannot
tolerate their utter contempt for the concerns of voters," Mr Gill said
yesterday.

Mother won't be happy with Labour campaign

Mothers' Day, you might think, is one tradition that does not need party
politics. And yet into the email boxes of every Labour MP this week there popped
a selection of "Mothers' Day materials" on sale at the Labour Party Campaign
Shop. The headlines were clearly written by a frustrated poet with a love of
alliteration. One leaflet is headed "Winning for Women" and another offers "A
Future Fair for Families".

40p here, 40p there; it soon adds up

In a week when three MPs have appeared in court charged with serious offences
relating to their expenses, let us be kind and recall one of the more absurd
details to emerge from the great expenses scandal. Mike Gapes, Labour MP for
Ilford, north London, was one of those named and shamed over whatboiled down to
an overpayment of 40p, which he himself uncovered and pointed otu to the
auditor, Sir Thomas Legg. He also solemnly wrote out a cheque, but I hear that
the cheque has not been cashed. Come on, Sir Thomas. The government is grappling
with a deficit of £178 billion. Bank that 40p and that is 0.000000002 per cent
of the deficit covered.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              102 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 13, 2010 Saturday 5:07 PM GMT

From Defence Chiefs to social workers, no one has the guts to resign when they
fail in their duty

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1035 words


The ill-natured and rowdy exchanges at Prime Minister's Question Time last
Wednesday did no one much credit. The Conservatives wanted to raise the matter
of whether, as Chancellor, Gordon Brown had denied our troops the kit they
needed to fight Blair's wars, whilst the Prime Minister and his friends thought
that Lord Ashcroft's tax affairs were far more important.

What no one seemed to have noticed was that no one resigned over the defence
matter. That is, all those carrying responsibility concluded that what was done,
or not done, was more or less about right. The job of the Chancellor is not to
hand out easy money for his colleagues to spend. It is to sit on the money box
and say "No". Sadly, he was very bad at that job. The job of the Defence Chiefs
is to persuade the Secretary of State for Defence to provide them with the
resources to carry out the tasks assigned to them. The job of the Defence
Secretary is to make his assessment of what the Chiefs say, and then persuade
the Chancellor to provide the cash. If the Chancellor says "No", then he has to
go to the Prime Minister and the Cabinet. The matter is a collective decision.
If the Defence Secretary cannot accept it, he must resign. If what he does
accept is too little in the view of the Defence Chiefs, they have the right to
see the Prime Minister. If they still cannot get what they need, then they
should resign.

As we know, no one resigned. That is, they all went along with the then
Chancellor. For anyone who held responsibility at that time to say now, years
later, that the troops were sent to war without the right equipment is to invite
the question: Then why did you go along with it at the time?

With office comes responsibility. It is not always easy. All who have carried
great responsibilities know that. We have all been faced with difficult
decisions, sometimes decisions which had to be taken on inadequate information,
lest they simply took themselves. And not many of us got them all right.

Unhappily, these days fewer and fewer people are accepting that there is a price
to be paid for failure. It is simply not enough for those who are paid to
protect vulnerable people to just say sorry, it was one of those things, and
carry on as usual, as they did in the appalling case of a father who got away
with continuously raping his own daughters for 33 years under their very noses.
Not one of the 100 so called "professionals" from 28 different agencies
concerned has resigned, been disciplined or sacked. Those now in charge of the
organisations which failed to protect those women offered their apologies for
their failures but no adequate explanations of them. One even said that the
report into the scandal "will not make comfortable reading for any organisations
concerned with the family". There, there, poor dears. e can only hope that they
are not too "uncomfortable" about taking their pay and pensions for the jobs
they simply did not do.

It is not just a case of decisions turning out badly, of NHS reorganisations
failing to deliver better results, or education reforms increasing illiteracy.
Time and time again failures to protect the vulnerable are the result of
"professionals" seeking an easy life holding case conferences and passing the
buck with a callous disregard of those they are paid to protect. It will not
stop until those responsible, top to bottom, are disgraced and fired.

Turning to some of the recent postings here, I should first of all welcome
"spicerlad". It is good to hear from an old Chingfordian. I share his worries
about the Conservative Party. I want to rescue it from the modernisers - and I
need help inside the party.

It was also good to have Torquil Dirk Erikson aboard. I remember fighting the
Danish referendumn on Maastricht alongside him many years ago. We are still on
the same side, but taking different views on how to continue to fight the battle
today.

I enjoyed "soft micro's" list of the works of ZaNuLab. How can the Tories not be
20 points ahead in the polls? OK, don't tell me. I know.

"Johnthebearcub" may well be right: perhaps the middle classes have become
addicted to welfare and state employment, too. I will write about that before
long.

"Kenomeat" flatters me. I do not think that whatever I said would win the
election for UKIP. It is not as easy and straightforward as that.

"Snookie" is living in false hopes. The Lisbon Treaty is undesirable, but it is
not illegal. Simon Denis would like to know what the Tories could do about
Europe. Well, that is another future blog post to be written.

"45govt" asked what is treasonable conduct. Well, a cynic said several hundred
years ago: "Treason never shall prosper, For if it doth, no man dare call it
so."

Some of those who think there is an easy way to undo what immigation has done to
this country might like to read Phil Keane's posting at 10.59 on the 11th. He is
right. Repatriation is not going to happen on any large scale. "Sheumais" would
like to hear the Tebbit election strategy. Yes - it is on its way.

Grange will be pleased to know that I have talked to Seb Coe about Woolwich, but
less pleased to know that I do not think I convinced him.

To Genghis Khan I can only say "Thanks" and to "lickyalips", yes, of course Our
Masters in Brussels want a Euro Army. Can't you see Eurogendfor on the streets
of Britain to deal with civic disorders (about Europe of course)?

And welcome to "ostreger", an old Vampire pilot. I also flew the Vampire and I
often think that if Foot had known I was a member of a Vampire Squadron he might
have been even more offensive. He should not think that we are too small to be
independent, nor that the world would be safer in the hands of three
superpowers. Orwell's 1984 paints a frightening picture of that.

If "british patriot" really thinks that Cameron is a communist I think he should
lie down quietly for a while, whilst "robbydot" should not think it would be
difficult for me to say why the three main parties are all Europhile. It was
quite easy, and I have.

Finally, I know why Jonathan Wilson thinks that the Tory Party is no longer
Conservative, but I can assure him, despite everything, that there will be a lot
of Conservatives in the House after the election.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              103 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 13, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

SHE SAYS 'People tend to forget that I had a drink problem. They just think "old
slapper"';
He's John Bercow, the one-time right-wing Tory MP now charged, as Speaker, with
restoring faith in Parliament. She's Sally Bercow, the Cameron-baiting Labour
candidate who recently confessed to a past of binge-drinking and casual sex. Ann
Treneman meets Westminster's odd couple HE SAYS 'I just knew that, when we went
to the pub, she drank more than I did'

SECTION: MAGAZINE;FEATURES; Pg. 38,39,41,42,43

LENGTH: 2609 words


When Sally Bercow walks into the room where I am interviewing her husband, it is
electrifying in more ways than one. I say room, but the Speaker's Study in the
Palace of Westminster is so much grander than that plainsong word implies, with
its magnificent Pugin wallpaper, marble fireplace, oak panelling and huge
windows overlooking the Thames. And here, in the midst of all this pomp and
grandeur, this flock and silver, is the small, besuited form of John Bercow, the
157th Speaker of the House of Commons. We had just started talking about Sally
when, on cue, she pops her head round the huge hulk of the door.

Within minutes, lightning flashes. We had been talking at a rather courtly pace
but now, with Sally, not to mention the electricity, sparks fly as we career off
into the dangerous territory of drinking, the media and how hard it is to change
in politics. Flash! Flash! More lightning. But John Bercow didn't get to where
he is today by letting a little weather stop him. "You asked me why I have so
many enemies," he continues, as if a winter thunderstorm was of no interest,
"and I said that I am rather sharp-tongued. But I think that in Parliament a
much bigger explanation is that I have changed."

Sally interjects: "Definitely that is the main thing."

John, not even pausing, continues: "And you have to have permission to change
and it's not usually granted. The idea that you can change on a significant
scale over a period of years is regarded by some people as anathema,
inexplicable, perverse, plain downright rank..."

Bam, crash, wallop! "It's thundering!" I cry.

"It snowed yesterday," offers Sally. Almost in the background now, John keeps
pontificating. "But I think people are allowed to change their mind. Politicians
regarded as models of consistency - Tony Benn, Winston Churchill - they changed
their minds many times on many issues. I don't regard that as a sign of..."

Sally interrupts: "David Cameron changes his mind all the time, flip-flopping
over policy."

John stops talking (it's so unusual I note it down), not I suspect because he is
discomfited by Sally's vehemently Labour views, but because it is time for the
photoshoot. But then he starts up again, this time about the fact that quite a
few Tories would like Sally to be a more traditional wife. "You know, they think
she should wear a hairband!"

Sally snorts. A hairband. Well, there are worse things, but I know what he
means. Much to my surprise, I find John and Sally a perfectly matched though
perfectly odd couple. In so many ways, they have escaped from a Dickens novel -
opposites in size, looks, manner, party politics. "We are a very curious
presentation," he agrees in his old-fashioned way. "We are a very curious
image." I nod. "Short John and Tall Sally!" he cries, looking eagerly over at
her (surely she has heard this before?). I could feel the electricity pass
between them in that glance. Who needs a thunderstorm when you've got these two
in front of you?

I had not expected to warm to him, or her, or them in particular. As
sketchwriter for The Times, I have written about him in a way that has rarely
been kind. When he was a mere MP - before his election last June after Michael
Martin's stupendous fall from grace - I would watch him pogoing from his seat on
the green benches, desperate to be called so he could opine, pronounce, inform.
His way of talking, as stilted as the traditional walk up the wedding aisle,
drives me crazy. He was the most irritating of the ten candidates for Speaker.

But we sketchwriters are the least of his critics, for John Bercow is to
controversy what thunder is to lightning: inextricably linked. Many Tories
detest the fact that he used to be right-wing and became left-wing (though, as
the Speaker is supposed to be above politics and have no opinions, he is no-wing
now).

Others point out that he was one of the "flippers" of the expenses scandal and
he did voluntarily pay back £6,508 in capital gains. For some Tories, the
campaign to unseat him as Speaker began the moment he was elected. Unusually,
he's being challenged at the general election by the attention-seeking missile
that is Nigel Farage of UKIP. And so you can see why Sally's extraordinary
interview last December, in which she admitted with enthusiastic candour to
binge-drinking and one-night stands in her youth, was the icing on an already
extremely fruity cake.

But amid all the rumour and innuendo, I couldn't help but noticing one thing as
I sat in the press gallery looking down at the new Mr Speaker. He was shaking
things up a bit. He was granting more and more urgent debates to hold the
Government to account, campaigning hard for a cleaned-up expenses regime,
telling MPs to quit moaning. I wondered if this bumptious man was actually going
to be a great reforming Speaker. I was intrigued though, I admit; and for most
people, if they think of him at all, it is not like that. When I told a
non-political friend that I was doing a magazine piece on John Bercow, she
exclaimed: "That little turd!" Well, I thought, at least she knows who he is.

The first leg of our interview is a day trip to Cornwall. Bercow is the first
Speaker to go to Cornwall since, well, for ever. Most Speakers have kept shtoom
outside the Chamber, happy to draw a salary in line with a Cabinet Minister's
£144,520 while living in splendiferous isolation in Speaker's House. Not this
one.

Bercow does what it says on the tin - this is a Speaker who speaks more or less
constantly.

We meet at 8am in the queue for the FlyBe flight from Gatwick to Newquay. It is
strange to see him in the real world, as they say in Westminster. In the
Chamber, the Speaker rules supreme. It is positively feudal. Even the PM must
obey the man in the huge carved canopied chair. But here, at Gatwick, he is just
another customer (dark wool coat, battered brown leather briefcase with clasp)
in a switchback queue. You'd never guess this is a man who employs a full-time
trainbearer.

The plane is alarmingly Toy Town.

Mr Speaker doesn't shut up during take-off or landing. As we stand in the aisle,
he says to me: "Tell me, Ann, will you be asking me if I have any hobbies?"
Well, I say, I could. "I am an absolutely fanatical tennis fan," he tells the
aisle. "Sally is not." I raise my eyebrows. Sometimes, with Mr Speaker, it is
easier to be quiet.

The day-long tour takes on an early air of farce when the sat-nav fails. We
eventually arrive at a place called Kingsley Village. The Speaker heads down
concrete steps into a low-ceilinged basement with strip lighting and
indoor-outdoor carpeting where about 50 people from the voluntary sector are
waiting.

The Speaker stands in an interesting way, one leg bent slightly, like a show
horse in midprance.

His rather pudgy hands flap slowly. "It has been suggested, ladies and
gentlemen, in some of the crueller parts of the press, that I am the shortest
person ever to be Speaker," he announces. "I can assure you this isn't true. I'm
not bothered about being vertically challenged. I always have been vertically
challenged and I'm 47 years of age. There is very little I can do about it. But,
as a matter of fact it is quite wrong to say that I am the shortest Speaker. Sir
John Bussy, who was Speaker from 1394 to 1398, Sir John Wenlock, 1455 to 1456,
and Sir Thomas Tresham, Speaker in 1459, are all believed to be shorter than I
am..."

The voluntary sector is giggling now. "...Though I have to admit that this is
true only after all three of them were beheaded!" This brings barks of laughter.
He looks enormously pleased. Later, I ask him how tall he is. He says he was
measured recently for a health check and is 5ft 7in. I say he seems shorter. He
notes that Sally is 5ft 11in and so maybe that is why. Again, it seems easiest
to stay quiet.

The beheading joke opens a speech that tackles the expenses scandal head on. "I
absolutely understand why people have been shocked, horrified, disgusted, turned
off, angered by the expenses scandal. There is no purpose - and I have been
saying this for months - in any MP feeling sorry for him or herself. Anyone
remaining who thinks that denial, delay or dilution is an option is
self-deluded."

As you can tell, sometimes it is quite hard work even listening to Bercow.
Still, unlike many politicians, he has some self-awareness. We were next off to
meet some MYPs (members of the Youth Parliament). I comment that I had sketched
the Youth Parliament when he let them use the Chamber last year (something
Michael Martin never allowed). "Oh yes," says Mr Speaker, turning round to look
at me. "You said that I was spectacularly patronising." There is a long pause.

The day swerves on, faulty sat-nav permitting, full of pauses, from Newquay to
Truro and back. He finishes up with sixthformers at Tretherras School who ask
him what he would have liked to be if he wasn't in politics. "I'd like to be
really greedy and give you two answers," he says. First, a barrister. And, if
not that, "Ideally, I would have been Wimbledon champion."

Bercow was born in 1963 in Edgware in North London. His father was in the car
business, first selling them and then driving a minicab. "There was a period of
very modest success and then a period of no success. We lived a modest
lower-middle-class lifestyle and then, in the mid-Seventies, my parents split
up."

His father was Jewish, his mother a Yorkshire Methodist who converted. "I know
there are people who say that it goes through the maternal line and therefore
you aren't Jewish, but my father used to say: 'Don't worry, son, you're Jewish
enough for the Nazis.'" He is the first Jewish speaker. His father, of whom he
was clearly very fond, died in 1986.

I can pinpoint the moment where I begin to warm to John Bercow: it is when he is
talking about his father on the plane back from Newquay. John, who does
impressions, if badly, is doing his father's slow and stilted way of talking
when he notes that he may have got some of his pomposity from his father. I like
that admission. Days later, when we meet in the Speaker's Study, I mention this
and he replies: "When I said that, I meant that in an endearing way. I wouldn't
want to come across as if I were castigating my own dad. He was a great dad but
he was rather formal in his manner of speech." He says Sally thinks he is the
same with their children. I do not meet them (Oliver, 6, Freddie, 4, and Jemima,
almost 2), or the new cat, acquired to scare off the legions of mice that have
invaded the Speaker's apartments. The cat was named, with the help of Twitter,
which Sally loves, from a shortlist of five: Betty (for Boothroyd), Harriet
(Harman, who is, Sally says, her heroine), Hansard, Tweety and Order. Order -
though surely it should be Order! - won.

He has been MP for Buckingham since 1997, but before that he was also in the
political world, as both a councillor and adviser. Margaret Thatcher was his
local MP and he got a first in government from the University of Essex. But I
suspect that the real reason he has been so drawn to politics is because he just
can't stop talking. Has he always been talkative? "Oh, insatiably so. Absolutely
uncontrollably so. In an unparalleled fashion. Oh yes. I didn't speak until the
age of 3. My mother says I've comprehensively made up for it since. Oh yes, I
regularly pontificate."

So we are back to pomposity. He is aware there is, as he puts it, "scope for
improvement". You love long words, I say. "I suppose I do.

I like adjectives. I tend to express myself in a fairly formal way. I'm fairly
disinclined to split infinitives and that sort of thing. It can probably be
quite irritating, but it is mainly irritating to people who are agin you
anyway."

He has no shortage of enemies. "Oh yes, bucketloads. Do I spend any time
worrying about it? No. I'm not bothered." Some people say he only got 3 Tory
votes for Speaker, but he claims it is between 20 and 30. He knows there are
those who'd like to unseat him.

We are running out of time and I ask about Sally and that interview. Was he
shocked? He shakes his head. "I knew the thrust of what she intended to say. I
hadn't reckoned on her offering comments about the education system in
Buckinghamshire or making a comment on David Cameron, and I said to her: 'I
thought that was not necessary and less than helpful.'" Well, I say - most
husbands might have criticised instead all those references to the casual sex.

It is at this almost perfect moment that Sally puts her head round the door,
bringing with her the electric storm. Both of them explain that she did that
interview to thwart a Sunday newspaper's exposé. I say that it certainly
catapulted her to stardom. "Yeah," she says. "It's all done! They've got nothing
on me." Then she adds: "People tend to forget the drink problem bit, they just
think 'old slapper'. Do you know what I mean?"

Their sentences are playing tag with each other. John notes: "Someone who is a
supporter said to me: 'Your wife's revelations...'" He lowers his voice to that
of a pantomime Tory. ("Love it," chortles Sally.) John tells the man
"revelations" is a rather coy word and that, actually, his wife had had an
illness. "He said, 'I beg your pardon.' I said, 'She had a drink problem.'" Now
he turns to Sally and says: "Whether you call yourself an alcoholic, I don't
know." Sally, whose beauty is something you continually notice, says she is not
sure either. "I think with alcoholics, you think of people who have gin over
breakfast. I wasn't like that. But I think formally I would be called an
alcoholic."

John met Sally in 1989 at a Conservative student party. She was 20, he 26. Over
the years, they got together and split up many times. "Partly that was because I
was a bit of an alkie," says Sally. "John couldn't really put up with the way I
was."

The pontificating starts again. "People can look at these situations one of two
ways," says John. "They can either think that, if you were together and apart,
together and apart, there was something wrong and it wasn't destined to work.
There was something fundamentally flawed in the relationship or..."

Sally interrupts: "It was my drinking!" John flows on: "...or they can take the
view the fact they kept gravitating back to each other suggests that there was
something there by way of a pull. When we came together again, which was at the
beginning of 2002, it was three months after you'd given up booze. I would like
to claim credit, would like to say that I led Sally on to the path to recovery.
The truth is I didn't."

Sally explains: "You didn't know that I was a binge-drinker."

John nods. "We were apart for long periods and I just didn't know. Perhaps I
should have done but I didn't. When we went to the pub, she drank more than I
did..."

Sally interrupts again: "I did cock up on that interview though, by saying this
thing that happened about three times, that I was in a bar off my head and, you
know, I accepted a drink and ended up chatting to somebody for about two hours
and then walked back to his flat or whatever. That was about 3 times but
everybody thinks it was about 500 times."

Yes, I say, 3 versus 500 is quite a difference.

John interrupts now: "What on earth - it may be of human interest - but what
Sally's activities as a single woman have to do with my capacity to be an MP in
Buckinghamshire and Speaker remains an unanswered question. It's a matter of
media interest..."

I don't feel guilty though. This couple will be a matter of media interest for
some time.

'I tend to express myself in a fairly formal way. It can probably be quite
irritating' JOHN BERCOW

'With alcoholics, you think of people who have gin over breakfast. I wasn't like
that' SALLY BERCOW

LOAD-DATE: March 13, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PORTRAITS Dirk Rees
John, Sally and Jemima Bercow at a Westminster Abbey memorial service, November
2009
REX FEATURES
The Speaker at the State Opening of Parliament in November 2009
REX FEATURES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              104 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Lady Ashton's record;
Letters to the Editor

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 110 words


SIR - Roland Rudd's panegyric to Baroness Ashton, the EU's High Representative
for Foreign Affairs (Letters, March 8), does not mention that her foreign policy
experience was as an employee, then vice-chairman of CND. If Lady Ashton's CND
pals had had their way, the Berlin Wall would still be there.

Mr Rudd says that Lady Ashton was "an excellent successor to Peter Mandelson as
trade commissioner". But her time in that role was characterised by regrettable
politicisation of EU trade policy. Sri Lanka, for example, a Commonwealth
country, had its EU trade preferences removed.

Lady Ashton is the Sarah Palin of the Left.

The Earl of Dartmouth MEP (Ukip) Brussels

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              105 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Britain must ban 'offensive' burkha in public says MP

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 541 words


MINISTERS were yesterday urged to "seriously consider'' banning burkhas in
public as a Conservative MP became the first mainstream British politician to
back the idea.

Philip Hollobone told the Commons: "This is Britain. We are not a Muslim
country. Covering your face in public is strange and to many people both
intimidating and offensive."

Wearing the full-face burkha was "oppressive and regressive'' to the advancement
of women, he told a Commons debate to mark this week's International Women's
Day.

It was not until recently when he took his children to a park in his Kettering
constituency and saw a woman wearing one that "it came home how inappropriate
and offensive it is for people to wear this apparel in the 21st century".

Mr Hollobone added: "In my view, and the view of my constituents, wearing the
burkha is not an acceptable form of dress and the banning of it should be
seriously considered.'' Support By wearing them women effectively said they
wanted no "normal human dialogue or interaction with anyone else ... and that
our society is so objectionable we aren't even allowed to cast a glance upon
them''.

He said: "It goes against the British way of life. If we all went around wearing
burkhas, our country would be a very sad place.'' A similar ban has been backed
by the UK Independence Party.

Opinion polls show strong support in Britain for restricting the wearing of
burkhas, for example in banks and airports, although there is less support for a
ban in all public places and no demands for an outright ban.

After the Commons debate, Mr Hollobone told the Daily Express he spoke out after
being "bowled over'' by the positive response he received from the public after
he previously questioned the wearing of burkhas.

He said: "This is not an anti-Muslim or anti-religious thing, and it's not about
veils which cover only the head or neck.

"It's about covering your face in public, which is something we normally
associate with people attending controversial trials or motorcyclists or
burglars.

"It is not a religious requirement and it is banned in some Muslim countries
such as Turkey and Tunisia. Yet it is an increasingly common sight in Britain
and it is making us feel like strangers in our own land.'' Earlier in the
Commons debate, Pakistan-born Labour MP Mohammad Sarwar told MPs: "I think
that's the women's choice. Yes, there should be action taken against those who
are forcing women to wear hijabs. But I don't think it's a big issue in this
country and I don't think there's a need for this to be debated.'' Solicitor
General Vera Baird, winding up the debate, said she did not agree with Mr
Hollobone.

Last month Justice Secretary Jack Straw, who stirred controversy in 2006 when he
revealed he asked Muslim constituents to remove their veils at his advice
surgeries, said: "I would prefer if people didn't wear a burkha but you can't
ban it.'' He also warned that a ban would waste police time.

Burkhas are worn by an estimated 100,000 of the 2.4 million Muslims in this
country.

Earlier this year, an inquiry by French MPs concluded that the veils should be
banned on public transport and in buildings such as hospitals and schools in
France, but they stopped short of backing a ban on wearing them in the street.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Hollobone says veil 'isn't British'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              106 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Britain must ban 'offensive' burkha in public, says MP

BYLINE: Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 242 words


WESTMINSTER was urged yesterday to "consider seriously'' banning burkhas in
public as a Conservative MP became the first mainstream British politician to
back the idea.

Philip Hollobone told the Commons to mark this week's International Women's Day:
"This is Britain. We are not a Muslim country.

"Covering your face in public is strange and to many people both intimidating
and offensive.

I seriously think that a ban on wearing the burkha in public should be
considered. "It goes against the British way of life.'' A similar ban has been
backed by the UK Independence Party. Opinion polls show strong support in
Britain for restricting the wearing of burkhas, for example in banks and
airports, although there is less support for a ban in all public places and no
demands for an outright ban.

Last month, Justice Secretary Jack Straw, who stirred controversy in 2006 when
he revealed he asked female Muslim constituents to remove their veils at his
advice surgeries, said: "I would prefer if people didn't wear a burkha, but you
can't ban it.'' He also warned that a ban would waste police time. The burkha is
won by an estimated 100,000 of some 2.4 million Muslims in this country.

Earlier this year, an inquiry by French MPs after President Nicolas Sarkozy said
burkhas were "not welcome'' concluded that the veils should be banned on public
transport and in public buildings such as hospitals and schools.

However, they stopped short of backing a street ban.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 100,000 wear the burkha

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DXP


                       Copyright 2010 Express Newspapers
                              All Rights Reserved

                              107 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

Britain must ban 'offensive' burkha in public, says MP

SECTION: NEWS 250; 04

LENGTH: 242  words


WESTMINSTER was urged yesterday to "consider seriously'' banning burkhas in
public as a Conservative MP became the first mainstream British politician to
back the idea.

Philip Hollobone told the Commons to mark this week's International Women's Day:

"This is Britain. We are not a Muslim country.

"Covering your face in public is strange and to many people both intimidating
and offensive. I seriously think that a ban on wearing the burkha in public
should be considered.

"It goes against the British way of life.'' A similar ban has been backed by the
UK Independence Party. Opinion polls show strong support in Britain for
restricting the wearing of burkhas, for example in banks and airports, although
there is less support for a ban in all public places and no demands for an
outright ban.

Last month, Justice Secretary Jack Straw, who stirred controversy in 2006 when
he revealed he asked female Muslim constituents to remove their veils at his
advice surgeries, said: "I would prefer if people didn't wear a burkha, but you
can't ban it.'' He also warned that a ban would waste police time. The burkha is
won by an estimated 100,000 of some 2.4 million Muslims in this country.

Earlier this year, an inquiry by French MPs after President Nicolas Sarkozy said
burkhas were "not welcome'' concluded that the veils should be banned on public
transport and in public buildings such as hospitals and schools.

However, they stopped short of backing a street ban.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 100,000 wear the burkha

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              108 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 12, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Britain must ban 'offensive' burkha in public says MP

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS 569; 04

LENGTH: 540  words


MINISTERS were yesterday urged to "seriously consider'' banning burkhas in
public as a Conservative MP became the first mainstream British politician to
back the idea.

Philip Hollobone told the Commons: "This is Britain. We are not a Muslim
country. Covering your face in public is strange and to many people both
intimidating and offensive."

Wearing the full-face burkha was "oppressive and regressive'' to the advancement
of women, he told a Commons debate to mark this week's International Women's
Day.

It was not until recently when he took his children to a park in his Kettering
constituency and saw a woman wearing one that "it came home how inappropriate
and offensive it is for people to wear this apparel in the 21st century".

Mr Hollobone added: "In my view, and the view of my constituents, wearing the
burkha is not an acceptable form of dress and the banning of it should be
seriously considered.'' By wearing them women effectively said they wanted no
"normal human dialogue or interaction with anyone else . . . and that our
society is so objectionable we aren't even allowed to cast a glance upon them''.

He said: "It goes against the British way of life. If we all went around wearing
burkhas, our country would be a very sad place.'' A similar ban has been backed
by the UK Independence Party.

Opinion polls show strong support in Britain for restricting the wearing of
burkhas, for example in banks and airports, although there is less support for a
ban in all public places and no demands for an outright ban.

After the Commons debate, Mr Hollobone told the Daily Express he spoke out after
being "bowled over'' by the positive response he received from the public after
he previously questioned the wearing of burkhas.

He said: "This is not an anti Muslim or anti-religious thing, and it's not about
veils which cover only the head or neck.

"It's about covering your face in public, which is something we normally
associate with people attending controversial trials or motorcyclists or
burglars.

"It is not a religious requirement and it is banned in some Muslim countries
such as Turkey and Tunisia. Yet it is an increasingly common sight in Britain
and it is making us feel like strangers in our own land.'' Earlier in the
Commons debate, Pakistan-born Labour MP Mohammad Sarwar told MPs: "I think
that's the women's choice. Yes, there should be action taken against those who
are forcing women to wear hijabs. But I don't think it's a big issue in this
country and I don't think there's a need for this to be debated.'' Solicitor
General Vera Baird, winding up the debate, said she did not agree with Mr
Hollobone.

Last month Justice Secretary Jack Straw, who stirred controversy in 2006 when he
revealed he asked Muslim constituents to remove their veils at his advice
surgeries, said: "I would prefer if people didn't wear a burkha but you can't
ban it.'' He also warned that a ban would waste police time.

Burkhas are worn by an estimated 100,000 of the 2.4 million Muslims in this
country.

Earlier this year, an inquiry by French MPs concluded that the veils should be
banned on public transport and in buildings such as hospitals and schools in
France, but they stopped short of backing a ban on wearing them in the street.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Mr Hollobone says veil 'isn't British'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              109 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

Diary: Harsh words from the BNP pot to the Ukip kettle. You are an
embarrassment, pot said

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 637 words


?Just how bad is Ukip's behaviour in the European parliament? Well, pretty bad,
with Nigel Farage being fined euros 3,000 for likening Herman Van Rompuy to a
damp rag and Lord Dartmouth silenced mid rant assailing the qualities of
Baroness Ashton. Everyone's embarrassed, it would seem. Mon dieu. Even the BNP.
"Before Mr Farage's outburst and Lord Dartmouth's paddy, Herman Rompuy and
Baroness Ashton scarcely had a friend in the world," rails extremist Yorkshire
MEP Andrew Brons in a disapproving letter. "Now they are seen as the innocent
and dignified victims of a gaggle of uncouth louts." Priceless isn't it? The
unsavoury right in high dudgeon. Like Sweeney Todd moaning about Crippen.

?And today's the day for the judge's verdict on whether the BNP has done enough
to embrace our multiracial political scene by accepting non-white members.
Earlier this week barristers for the party and the equalities commission put
their respective cases, all of which Judge Paul Collins found helpful. But it
wasn't easy for the BNP brief to depict the party as welcoming to all, shadowed
as he was by bullnecked party sympathisers who snorted theatrically whenever
words like "multicultural" were mentioned. White people remain the overwhelming
majority in the UK, one barrister told the judge. "Not in Brixton!" heckled the
bullnecks. (Brixton's visible minority population, 34%). And "What about
Leicester?" they sneered (Leicester's minority population 40%). They were rude.
No one said they were bright.

?I didn't know; nobody told me, said former police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair
when quizzed about the shooting of Jean Charles de Menezes. And so there is
precedent for Dame Eliza Manningham-Buller, the former head of MI5, when she
insists she knew nothing about the US being involved in torture. They keep
bosses away from the unpleasantness of the world. Exposing them to it does no
good. Away from communiques, and apparently away from the papers, for Dame Eliza
missed the stories about torture when first they were published in 2004 in the
New York Times. And then she missed the follow-ups in the Australian, the Boston
Globe, the Daily Mail and Mail on Sunday; the Daily Record, the Evening
Standard, the International Herald Tribune, and the Irish Times. The Los Angeles
Times, the St Petersburg Times, The Sunday Times, the Toronto Star, USA Today,
the Washington Times, Newsweek, The Guardian. Poor Dame Eliza. She missed them
all.

?Day nine of the great campaign to save the digital radio stations 6 Music and
the Asian Network. The revolt is growing. Neither seems likely to go quietly.
Presenter Steve Lamacq likens the planned closure to a "public flogging" to
appease the corporation's critics. Meanwhile, there's Lily Allen, Mark Ronson,
Radiohead; they are all on board. Adam Buxton, one of the station's most popular
broadcasters, tells Shortlist magazine that while the prognosis is grim, the
only way to resolve the impasse may well be for him and director general Mark
Thompson to have a winner-take-all fight on television. "I'm going to come up
behind him and grab his buttocks, that'll surprise him. Then he'll spin around
and then I'll twist his nipples quite badly. Then I'm going to ruffle his hair,
his thinning thatch of hair. And then I'm going to give him a wedgie he'll never
forget." The Asian Network, by contrast, is gathering a petition.

?Finally, a blessing it is to be able to see ourselves as others see us. "Sarah,
I like to see you as a kind of broadcasting Boudicca," said a simpering Melvyn
Bragg to Sarah Montague (pictured) on the Today programme yesterday. "Sword in
hand charging into that imperial army of male interviewees. Is that how you see
yourself?" "I certainly do on some mornings," admitted Sarah. The days when even
Humphrys gives her a wide berth.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              110 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 12, 2010 Friday

Simon Hoggart's week: EU? It's just an abusive imps' tea party

BYLINE: Simon Hoggartguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 947 words

ABSTRACT

Even Ukip does not deserve to be punished for knockabout abuse

FULL TEXT

· Like most people - or at least most Guardian readers - I have little time for
Nigel Farage, the once and future leader of Ukip. I suspect he is one of those
people who wakes up sweating every morning in case he isn't mentioned anywhere
in the newspapers.

As for their other MEP, William, Earl of Dartmouth, I'm also not sure about the
cut of his jib, whatever that means. They have both made moderately abusive
speeches in the parliament lately. Farage called Herman van Rompuy, the EU
president, "a damp rag". For this he was fined (EURO)3,000 (£2,700), a lot of
moolah even in Strasbourg, where money cascades from the trees. The earl said
that it was absurd for countries such as Cyprus and Greece to have a policy on
the Arctic.

He added that this was as bizarre as the appointment of Lady Ashton as the EU's
high representative, at which point his microphone was switched off and he was
escorted from the chamber.

This was no doubt their plan. But what kind of congress is it that punishes
people for knockabout abuse? That silences its members when they say anything
which might give offence to anyone in authority - unelected authority at that?
If the same rules applied at Westminster, we'd have a dozen MPs left. Europe
doesn't have a parliament; it's a tea party with pretensions.

· I'm delighted the election is going to be held in May. I'll be travelling
round the country in the weeks leading up to it, and parts of Britain in spring
are still sensational. North Yorkshire, Northamptonshire, Devon - here are some
of the loveliest villages in the country. And the literary festival season is
beginning.

I gather there are more than 150 of these in this country every year, some of
them held in places most of us have never heard of. Tomorrow night I will be
speaking in Bridport, Dorset, one of our most glorious counties, free of
motorways, but with the fabulous Jurassic coast.

This, literally, used to be where Namibia is now, though a long time ago. Last
week I was in Saffron Walden, north Essex, which is crammed with wonderful
houses. I stayed with old friends, who left Hackney a few years ago, and we had
dinner with other refugees from London. We talked about the way you learn about
an area from its local newspaper placards; Radio 4 recently ran an item about
exactly that.

A woman moved to East Anglia - the last placard she saw in east London was "Boy
stabbed for 50p"; the first she saw in her new village read: "Bus driver was
rude, says passenger."

They had spotted a couple of recent Essex ones: "Man dents Volvo" (he was
jumping over a wall and struck it by accident) and the best, "Cadbury's creme
egg smashed into lock."

· One member of our party was Clare Mulley, whose book The Woman Who Saved the
Children is just out in paperback. It's about Eglantyne Jebb, who founded Save
the Children, and it has something I have never seen on a cover before, an
endorsement by Gordon Brown. "A truly brilliant book," he says.

Apparently the prime minister read it on holiday and was moved to supply this
encomium, unprompted. And he's right - it's a very good read, telling an
extraordinary story. Whether Gordo's tribute will sell any copies is a very
different matter. But it is a hefty volume, just right for throwing at an aide.

·Went to see Alice in Wonderland. Good start, went on too long. Judging from the
trailers, most films are going to be in 3D soon. If so, I hope they use the
technique more sparingly: 3D in real life never looks like a 3D film, with its
yawning vistas, succession of flat planes, and objects flying towards you for no
obvious reason. When Technicolor came in, every film looked like a child's
paintbox. Then film-makers realised we would take colour for granted, and
started using it more modestly.

What could happen is that the classics are remade in 3D. In Brief Encounter, the
screen would be half-filled with gigantic rock cakes in the station buffet, with
Trevor Howard and Celia Johnson tiny figures in the distance. When he takes a
piece of grit out of her eye, the thing would hurtle towards us and half the
audience would duck.

In the week the John Lewis partnership reported massively rising profits and
gave staff a 15% bonus (averaging £2,100, or nearly eight weeks' pay) I was
mildly surprised to find loads of hoodies in Waitrose. They were perfectly well
behaved, but it was startling, like finding Tara Palmer-Tomkinson in a kebab
shop. Could it be that Waitrose is next for the fashion among the young and
restless for middle-class symbolism - the craze that nearly did for Burberry?
The most exclusive champagne houses now employ PRs to keep their names out of
the limelight and so below the riff-raff's radar.

We shall know when we next see a gang of youths marching down the street at
midnight snacking on olives in a pesto sauce, or chewing Duchy Originals organic
ginger and orange oatmeal cookies.

· A press release from the Department of Health lands on my desk. It proudly
records events in Doncaster, where a "coughing bus shelter" has alerted people
to the dangers of lung cancer and helped bring about a substantial increase in
early diagnosis.

Confusing, I'd have thought. Passengers might have assumed that the bus shelter
was politely trying to tell them that their shoe laces were undone, or to call
attention in a very British way to someone queue jumping.

But if we are to be nannied by bus shelters, who not going the whole way? A
spitting bus shelter would warn of the danger from cancer of the oesophagus. A
screaming bus shelter in London would alert you that tickets now cost an
eye-watering £2 each, even for going one stop.

LOAD-DATE: March 12, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              111 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 11, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Ashton falls into step with EU army backers

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 354 words


BARONESS Ashton has dropped her opposition to a permanent European Union
military headquarters that many believe will be the first step towards a
Euro-army.

Britain is opposed to a standing military HQ in Brussels, claiming it would
duplicate Nato and be "an unnecessary use of resources".

But since becoming EU high representative for foreign affairs last year, Lady
Ashton has gone from "being unconvinced" to having an "open mind" over the move.

The HQ has been demanded by French and German supporters of a European army.
"This is a serious issue that deserves a serious debate," she said yesterday to
MEPs.

The Conservatives have accused Lady Ashton of "going native" and succumbing to
pressure from France.

"Ashton's role as EU foreign minister is to act as handmaiden for EU political
integration," said Geoffrey Van Orden, a Tory MEP for the East of England. "Just
three months into the job, she seems to have been got at and changed her mind.
It's extraordinary the effect the Brussels air can have on some people."

During a European Parliament hearing two months ago, Lady Ashton insisted the EU
was not "anywhere close to a position" on the new HQ.

Lady Ashton has struggled to stamp her authority on the p ost created by the
Lisbon Treaty. She has faced accusations of inexperience and failing to hold her
own against powerful officials.

Last Friday, she came under pressure to set up the HQ during talks with Hervé
Morin, the French defence minister.

"This capacity, desired by a majority of member states, would improve the
union's responsiveness in the launch of operations and would also be a factor
for making cost savings," said a French defence ministry spokesman.

EU officials have said Lady Ashton's job "is not to put the British view" ahead
of negotiations on the HQ next month. "She has an open mind on the issue," said
an aide.

ÞA Ukip MEP was thrown out of the European Parliament yesterday for an attack on
Lady Ashton. The Earl of Dartmouth was asked to leave a debate for saying Greece
and Cyprus having an "arctic policy" was "as bizarre as the appointment of
Baroness Ashton as the EU's high representative".

LOAD-DATE: March 11, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              112 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday

SPORTS AGENDA

LENGTH: 619 words


CHARLES SALE

CARING ALBION GET SHIRTY FOR CHARITY

CHAMPIONSHIP side West Bromwich Albion have set an example to the rest of
English football by being the only club to support the disaster funds in Haiti
and Chile.

The Midlands club are using their lack of a permanent shirt sponsor to help
various causes. This includes raising 625,000 for the victims of the Haiti
earthquake after their one-off Haiti Appeal shirts, worn for the televised game
against Newcastle, were auctioned off.

And last night West Bromwich played Sheffield Wednesday wearing shirts
emblazoned with Help Chile and the appropriate Red Cross website address. This
kit will also be auctioned with the funds directed towards Talcahuano, the home
town of their Chile international Gonzalo Jara, who has been in his home country
since the tragedy.

security chief Ray Whitworth retains the full support of his employers despite
not having spotted those believed to have been responsible for the bugging of
the England team room hanging around the Grove Hotel. Whitworth (right) has had
a bullina-china shop reputation since he chased a fan dressed as a giant
Pepperami across a training pitch as well as attempting to eject Greek Olympic
officials showing visitors around their own Athens stadium during an England
practice.

But it is acknowledged even by his media detractors that he approaches his job
in a conscientious way. This will now include seeking specialist security advice
on how to ensure the Grove incident isn't repeated. Whitworth was asked by FIFA
chief executive Jerome Valcke to be on a panel briefing the media after the
World Cup security workshop in Zurich but Whitworth declined, preferring to stay
in the background.

THE plans being considered to revamp the struggling FA Cup include moving the
showcase final to 5.30pm on Saturday to attract a bigger television audience.
ITV controller of sport Niall Sloane has been keen on that switch since his
previous role as head of football with the BBC, but always came up against
blanket opposition from the traditionalists on the FA Cup committee.

That group has subsequent ly been marginalised and FA chief executive Ian
Watmore is considering a range of options for the competition, including the
time change for the final, which are likely to be introduced the season after
next.

doesn't say much for the hapless Lawn Tennis Association that Andy Murray
doesn't always choose to train at their 640million headquarters in Roehampton
when he is in London. Pictures on Murray's Facebook page show him having a hit
at a nearby Chiswick club instead. This follows his recent upset at having to
curtail a session at the NTC because the court had to be prepared for a
mini-tennis session.

Meanwhile, the LTA's beleaguered chief executive Roger Draper, who knows a lot
about presiding over failure, was yesterday on the judging panel deciding this
year's sports industry awards.

MURRAY'S SUNDAY BEST

RADIO 5 Live presenter Colin Murray, whose left-field style grates with many
listeners, is nevertheless being lined up to present Match of the Day 2, the
Premier League highlights show on Sunday nights, if the BBC's contract
negotiations with current host Adrian Chiles break down.

SHAMELESS publicist Frank Maloney claims he will be the first professional
boxing promoter in the House of Commons after the General Election, although he
could lose his deposit standing in Barking for UKIP.

But he is using the platform to send out a stream of political consciousness
along with his boxing missives with the latest Maloney baloney titled 'Yes to
Boobs no to Tories'.

In it he suggests the Conservatives are not in touch with the public after MP
Nadine Dorries complained about lingerie adverts on buses.

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              113 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                            March 10, 2010 Wednesday
                                U.K. 3rd Edition

Germans want us to help fund EU 'bail-outs'

BYLINE: By Alison Little

SECTION: NEWS 552; 17

LENGTH: 535  words


FEARS of a new European Union power grab were sparked yesterday when Germany
backed the idea of a fund to bail out struggling member states.

German Chancellor Angela Merkel said EU members would have to agree a new treaty
to establish a European version of the International Monetary Fund.

But she said countries should not be afraid of that.

Critics said it showed the controversial Lisbon Treaty, which came into force in
December, had not satisfied the European federalist appetite for yet more
integration and power for Brussels.

Downing Street insisted Gordon Brown stood by his view that there should be no
more institutional EU changes for another five years following the years of
painful wrangling over Lisbon.

But the Prime Minister's spokesman declined to comment on the suggestion of a
European Monetary Fund, saying there was no firm proposal on the table.

French president Nicolas Sarkozy, who welcomes the idea in principle but is not
eager for a swift overhaul of treaties, may give more details when he visits Mr
Brown in London on Friday.

The idea of the fund followed admissions that euro zone countries lack the tools
to tackle the debt crisis in Greece which is threatening the single currency.

Existing treaty rules ban euro zone countries from bailing each other out.

Stephen Booth, of pro-reform think-tank Open Europe, warned:

"This goes to show that the EU's appetite for more and more power did not stop
with Lisbon.

Taking more steps towards economic integration, against the will of the majority
of citizens, would be deeply undemocratic and only serve to further alienate
ordinary voters from the EU."

It is not yet clear whether Britain, as a non single currency member, would be
involved in an EMF - thus underwriting other governments' debts.

It would still have to agree any EU-wide treaty changes, however.

Mr Booth said: "The UK should play no role in any bail-out fund for the EU.

"British taxpayers should not be asked to underwrite the debts of EU governments
that they cannot vote out of office.

"It would be a totally unacceptable step towards economic federalism, which has
no popular support among UK voters."

Tory Europe spokesman Mark Francois said: "A European Monetary Fund must create
no financial or legal obligations on Britain."

Nigel Farage, of the antiBrussels UKIP, commented: "You cannot make a silk purse
out of a sow's ear and neither can you make a strong stable currency out of the
euro.

"If this plan goes ahead, British taxpayers will end up bailing out profligate
European governments.

"Our priority must be to sort out the mess our own government has created in the
UK and leave the euro zone countries to clean up theirs."

The proposal could also present the Conservatives with a dilemma, observers
noted.

Leader David Cameron has promised he would hold a referendum if any more powers
were to be handed to Brussels.

But Open Europe said that if all EU member states were asked to agree treaty
changes to set up an EMF involving only euro zone members, it could be a golden
chance for a Tory government.

The Conservatives could then use the threat of veto to make the EU hand back
powers the Conservatives want returned to Britain, such as employment and
justice regulation.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: German Chancellor Angela Merkel

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              114 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 10, 2010 Wednesday 8:51 PM GMT

Funny how no one's talking about the European elephant in the room

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 897 words


The corridors of the Palace of Westminster areso abuzz with election fever that
no one seemed to notice the ill-timed, ill-mannered, ignorant, ill-judged
remarks of the American Secretary of State, Hillary Clinton poking her unwelcome
nose into the internal affairs of the Falkland islanders. I know that Mr Blair
was in the pocket, to put it gently, of President George W Bush, but I had
expected a little better of Mr Brown.It would havebeen appropriate to invite the
US ambassador in to the Foreign Office for a tutorial on the right of
self-determination of the Falklanders and a reminder that the Hawaiian Islands
are rather a long way from the west coast ofAmerica.

Perhapselection fever is developing into something more like sleeping sickness,
as the utter boredom of a contest in which almost the attention seems to be on
personalities and polls wears us all down.I just wish they would get on with it.

The danger of the polls is, of course, thathuge temptation to notice onlythe
ones which confirm ones own judgment or indeed, hopes.

Overall, Camp Cameron may feel that there has been a bottoming out of their
slide in the ratings and the Downing Street Camp must be simply grateful and
surprised that they are running the Tories so close.

Both sides must be eyeing that European elephant in the corner of the room with
some concern.The talk of a new European Monetary Fund to bail out countries like
Greece has sent shivers of fearthrough the political establishment. Everyone
knows it would be wildly unpopular.If it were to require a new treaty there
would be huge pressure on the Tories to get out another cast-iron guarantee that
it would be subject to a referendum, and Labour would be pressed to follow suit,
whilst UKIP would be delighted that the European issue had come to the centre
stage.

This week, however,the big idea wasthat respectable owners ofpeaceable well
behaved dogs should be licensed, regulated and bullied whilst the vicous
anti-social bullies with vicous anti-social dogs wouldbe left to scoff at the
law as they always are under NuLab's legislation.

It is always the same with NuLab, the guilty go free and the innnocent are left
to carry the can.

Perhaps I should be careful what I say.With all three parties committed to
getting rid of people like me from the House of Lords to make way for party
clones who could be relied on to vote without asking questions, I might be
looking for some other occupation.How about Chairperson of the National Dog
Registration Authority?What do you think: 150,000 plus 50,000 expenses, a car
and a driver?

May be there is something in dog registration, owner training, and compulsory
insurance after all.Think of all those new jobs.

I am sorry that PJW Holland is still having difficulty in understanding what I
said about Lord Alli's amendment. Maybe that is because in his article in the
Telegraph Lord Alli ignored what Lord Waddington had said.I can only advise PJW
to read the Hansard report of the debate.

As for "akpan", he too should read what I wrote. I made it plain I am grateful
to Foot for his polecat jibe.I have polecats in my coat of arms.

I think that "Charlemagne" must be "AFFFA" under another name.I have some
affection forthe realCharlemagne.He certainly defended Europe from the
anti-Christian hordes,but he certainly was not British, nor Anglo-Saxon. I am
sure he had better manners thanhe person using his name on this site.

"55 gout" suggests that I might be an inverse snob.Not really. I have friends
from all parts of society.It issocialist snobs like Foot I find unattractive.

"Exile" thought I might have upset Mr Foot. I think he was far too grand to have
worried much about me. What upset him was that The Times said I was right to
call him a fascist. "Exile" should go back and read the whole of what the Times
said.

"Maclean" doubted that Foot was a snob.Of course he was. That is why he sucked
up to the arch-Tory, Lord Beaverbrook.

"James I" asked what is wrong with the BNP.As other contributors have pointed
out,whatever else it is or isn't,there can be no doubt it is another socialist
party.

Perhaps "Faustiesblog" should also go back and read what Michael Gove has been
saying.I find it persuasive.

I can assure "Gezzmo" that the Conservative Party was not controlled by "class
snobs and inbreds" while Thatcher was Leader and I was Chairman.

"Pondy" was well worth reading on Galloway but surely "petoh" should understand
why I do not defect from the Conservative Party.I am a conservative and it is my
party.

I find "assegai" boring.I did not support Blair against Major. I resigned my job
at The Sun over its support for Labour,and I see no need of gratuitous crudeness
in debate.

"Proud Polecat" is spot on.The arrogance of the Left is terrible to behold.
'incensed' I found over the top.I do not like the EU but to claim that life in
the EU is no different to life in Stalin's Empire is plain wrong.

"An Englishmans Viewpoint" asked my view of The Albion Alliance.Well, it just
has no traction.Better Off Out has done more in this field, but thisapproach
will not go very far.

"Shaft" asked how we can reestablish a British identity. Good question. I'll put
it on my list.

Finally I am grateful to "Christian Thomas" for what he wrote and I should say
that much as I admire Margaret Thatcher she did rather prove the old adagethat
"under the great oak, acorns seldom grow".

Happy blogging.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              115 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 10, 2010 Wednesday 3:00 PM GMT

MEPs vote overwhelmingly for an EU Tobin Tax

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 184 words


As predicted, the European Parliament has voted for a tax on financial
transactions, to be levied directly by Brussels. The vote went through by 536 to
80: only my own group, the European Conservatives and Reformists, voted solidly
against the measure, although we had some support from UKIP and its allies as
well astwo Danish liberals and two Portuguese conservatives.

Anyone wondering why David Cameron broke with the palaeo-federalist EPP need
only look at its automatic support for such measures as this. With a handful of
exceptions - such as those two heroes from our oldest ally - the Christian
Democrats invariably vote for higher taxes, greater state intervention and
Euro-corporatism. I do wish British journalists would stop lazily refering to
the EPP as "Centre-Right"; the EPP itself angrily insists that it is "a party of
the Centre".

The Tobin Tax might well be vetoed by one or other of the national governments.
But the campaign for pan-European taxation is only just beginning. This will be
the big battleground of the next five years. It's time for a European Tea Party.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              116 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Tories slip but stay on course to win election

BYLINE: By Macer Hall

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 321  words


DAVID Cameron is currently on course to lead the biggest party in a hung
Parliament after the General Election, the exclusive Daily Express opinion poll
revealed.

The Tories have a 7 per cent lead over Labour, according to the Daily
Express/Opinium survey, after a week when the Conservatives have come under fire
over the tax status of major donor Lord Ashcroft. Their lead has shrunk by 2 per
cent compared with the results of an Opinium Research poll carried out a week
ago.

Our latest poll puts the Tories on 37 per cent, with Labour on 30 per cent and
the Lib Dems trailing on 16 per cent. If those levels of support were repeated
at the election, expected in May, the Conservatives would become the biggest
party in the House of Commons, but they would fall about 18 seats short of an
overall majority.

A series of recent polls have shown Tory support dipping below the key 40 per
cent mark.

But senior Tories took some comfort from the latest Daily Express poll. One
said: "We have had a severe battering over the past week but still appear to be
well ahead of Labour. We are well placed to start taking the fight to Gordon
Brown."

Today's poll suggests support for Labour and the Lib Dems is up 1 per cent each
on last week.

It is the first in a weekly series that the Daily Express will publish in the
run-up to the election.

James Endersby, managing director of Opinium Research, said: "Whilst the
Conservatives maintain a lead in the polls, we will no doubt see ups and downs.

"It will be interesting to see what campaign tactics or other revelations have
on the polls - particularly after the televised debates."

According to the website Electoral Calculus, the shares of the vote in the
Opinium survey would give the Tories 308 Commons seats, Labour would have 270
and the Lib Dems 40.

The poll showed 16 per cent of voters intend to back minor parties, such as
Ukip, the Greens, the BNP and the Scottish and Welsh nationalists.

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Cameron is set to lead biggest party

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              117 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Immigration? No party can control it say voters

BYLINE: By Macer Hall Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 04

LENGTH: 658  words


WESTMINSTER politicians from all main parties have failed to convince voters
that they can control immigration, an exclusive opinion poll for the Daily
Express reveals today.

In a stark warning to Britain's political establishment, six out of 10 adults
quizzed for the survey declined to back the immigration policies of the Tories,
Labour or Lib Dems.

Yet a majority also insist that the incendiary issue of immigration will be
"very important" or crucial to their decision on which party to vote for in this
year's general election.

In a major wake-up call, the widespread disillusionment with mainstream parties
over immigration is laid bare today in an exclusive survey by opinion poll
experts Opinium Research for the Daily Express.

Nearly 2,000 adults across Britain answered a series of questions about
immigration in the online poll over the weekend.

The research also revealed acute concern about the impact on British society of
mass immigration over the past decade. The survey of 1,960 people also found:

Sixty-nine per cent of voters felt the huge influx of newcomers into the UK over
recent years has had a "negative" impact on society, putting a strain on
housing, hospitals, schools and social cohesion.

Only 12 per cent of voters agreed with the Government's claim that migrant
workers should be encouraged here to boost the economy.

Nearly one in five voters (19 per cent) said immigration had already had a
negative impact on their local community.

But the dissatisfaction with the policies of the mainstream political parties
will cause most concern at Westminster.

The findings will be particularly worrying for David Cameron and the Tories,
whose election polls lead on immigration appears to be slipping.

The Opinium survey found only 18 per cent of voters supported Conservatives
policies, which include an annual limit on the number of migrants allowed into
Britain.

Labour immigration polices were supported by 11 per cent of voters quizzed in
the survey and seven per cent backed the Lib Dems' policies.

But 16 per cent of voters said "none of the parties" had the "best policies on
the issue of immigration".

A further 10 per cent backed the immigration policies of fringe parties
including the UK Independence Party, the Greens and the British National Party.
A further 35 per cent did not know which party's immigration policies were best.

It meant 61 per cent declined to back any of the three main parties over border
controls.

Critics of mass immigration into the UK last night seized on the Daily
Express/Opinium poll as a major wake-up call to the political establishment. Sir
Andrew Green, chairman of Migration Watch UK, said: "This is a remarkable poll.

"It is further evidence that the political classes are ignoring the strongly
held views of a large section of the electorate."

Despite the poll, the Tories insisted their proposed cap on immigration and
pledge of a new border police force showed they were in touch with public anger
over rising levels of immigration.

Shadow Home Secretary Chris Grayling said: "I want to see immigration limited to
the level it was 20 years ago when it was in the tens of thousands and not the
hundreds of thousands each year."

The survey also dealt a devastating blow to ministerial claims that mass
immigration was needed to boost the economy. Just 12 per cent of voters quizzed
agreed that "Immigration should be encouraged to bolster the economy."

The Daily Express/Opinium survey showed that 54 per cent of voters considered
immigration policies "very important" or the "main issue" that would determine
their vote.

More than one in six (15 per cent) said immigration had a "negative impact on
access to medical/hospital care." Other concerns included housing, education and
social cohesion.

Q Is Britain's immigration problem beyond repair?

YES: 0901 030 8340

No text DXTUENO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline. Lines close at midnight tonight. Texts cost
25p plus network operator rates

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Two in three voters told Opinium that migrants, such as these sorting
flowers in Lincolnshire, have not been good for UK

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              118 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 9, 2010 Tuesday

Comment: This once-in-a-generation bill could define the election: Brown has
just enough time to push through voting reforms that would expose the Tories and
cement his legacy

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 1077 words


In just a few weeks Gordon Brown will call the election: the word is that he
favours a long campaign, prolonging the x-ray lamp scrutiny of Cameron policies.
It is, after all, David Cameron who is under most pressure to reveal his plans,
since in his unwisdom he promises to swing the axe on the deficit starting "on
day one". Weeks of ya-boo may bore the voters to despair, but a slow grilling of
Cameron and George Osborne presses the Tories to explain how they mean to cut
the deficit. As polls stand, they look most likely to be in charge - so what
exactly will they do on day two?

In these dog days, an odd unreality pervades the corridors of Whitehall and
Westminster. Business continues as usual, announcements are made, plans are
laid, reports are published, daily meetings and agendas trundle on as if the
judgment of the voters did not hang above ministerial heads. What can be done
with the little time left?

Only one thing of real and lasting importance for the future remains for Labour
to do. A logjam of bills has built up, waiting to pass through the Lords: some
are technical and can be picked up again by whichever government emerges from
the election. Others are airily declaratory - such as the fiscal responsibility
bill. Many are decent and worthy - but they can wait. If Labour wins, it can
redo them; if not, the Tories would rescind most anyway.

Soon after the election is called, the "wash-up" decides which of these bills
will be sped through the Lords on the nod from all parties. Uncontentious bills
can whisk through. But the government can decide to fight for a bill to the
bitter end, its one utmost priority. Only one bill presses hard for the
political future, a now-or-never, once-in-a-political-generation chance - the
constitutional reform and governance bill.

One clause sets out a referendum on voting reform to be held in the year after
the election. For those of us who have campaigned for years for proportional
representation, this alternative vote (AV) plan is an exceedingly modest reform
- but at least it gives more choice, letting voters put their candidates in
1,2,3 order, instead of a simple X. At a time of angry rejection of the old
pendulum-swing choice between Labour and Conservative, it gives a little more
chance for smaller parties to break up the duopoly: people can vote Green or
Ukip safe in the knowledge that if their first choice fails, their vote will be
transferred to a second-choice backstop to keep out their most detested party.

That reform has got this far is a sign of remarkable change, a signal that
Labour is capable of rebirth. Mind you, it was a painful breech birth, with Nick
Brown, the chief whip, obstructing all the way until ordered by Gordon Brown to
secure the Labour vote in the Commons, which he did. But he whipped in the most
obstinate by whispering under his breath to them not to worry, it would never
pass in the Lords. So that's where matters lie.

Gordon Brown dilly-dallied after first announcing in his October conference
speech that he would support AV. Nothing happened for months until a last-minute
dash. In that delay the bill lost time to get through the Lords. However, in a
burst of determination he did intervene personally to persuade a host of MPs to
support it. Now he needs to push it through the final stage.

That's not easy. It can only succeed if he makes it his top priority, though
that means slaughtering beloved bills he tenderly nurtured to near maturity.
Will he do it? Some are beavering hard behind the scenes to make it happen. But
cabinet ministers will each be elbowing for their own bills to get ahead first.
This is the time for the cabinet reformers to give this the final shove. Alan
Johnson, the Milibands, Tessa Jowell, Ben Bradshaw, Peter Hain and John Denham
need to step out of their silos and urge it on. It could be the most politically
important bill in the coming general election.

In the Lords the Conservatives will want to block it; as you would expect, not
one Tory voted for electoral reform in the Commons. But Cameron should be
careful of what he will be voting against. In this bill are all the Kelly
reforms to the MPs' expenses systems. Will Cameron vote them down? In this bill
is the power to remove criminal peers - and the anti non-dom clause, requiring
all MPs and peers to pay British tax. Will he vote against that, really? In the
bill is also the final removal of hereditary peers. Does Cameron really want to
face an election accused of supporting sleazy MPs expenses, hereditary peers and
non-doms?

The Tories will attempt to make a deal: strike out the electoral reform
referendum clause and we'll let through the rest. Gordon Brown has to insist on
the whole bill or nothing. The Tories could filibuster, and Labour would lose
all their bills - but how would Cameron look then? Who will blink first? The
Tories detest electoral reform, but to vote this down and refuse a referendum
where the people, not politicians, choose their own voting system, cannot be a
price worth paying.

With a chance of a hung parliament, a Labour party sincerely committed to reform
- not merely putting up a show bill it knew would fall - will be considerably
more attractive to the Liberal Democrats. The Conservatives will never
relinquish first-past-the-post, and Cameron couldn't get such a change past his
MPs if he tried. But he might consider that a referendum already on the statute
book makes a deal with the Lib Dems easier. Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, must
stand his ground and demand full proportional representation without fearing
that it makes him look self-interested. It's the only hope on the horizon for
political change. Conservatives had better stop warning that coalitions cause
dangerous financial indecision: on the contrary, across Europe coalitions have
created most financial stability with the broadest public agreement. Greece and
Britain (with its IMF and ERM crises) are the ones with "strong" one party
government.

Voting reform does mean turbulence and uncertainty for Labour, but most Labour
MPs swallowed hard and voted for it, knowing that we can't go on like this. It
was a moment when Labour threw off some of its worst tribalism and opened the
window to co-operation with others. Brown was accused of cynical positioning,
but he can prove he is a serious reformer by making this his fight to the end,
even at cost of losing other good bills. This is his legacy moment.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 9, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              119 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Bercow: it's your choice, Tebbit tells activists;
THE SPEAKER

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 192 words


CONSERVATIVE activists should be free to campaign for the UK Independence Party
candidate Nigel Farage in Speaker John Bercow's constituency in the general
election, the party's former chairman Lord Tebbit has said.

The Conservative Party is officially backing Mr Bercow for re-election but as he
is standing as the Speaker there is no official Tory candidate in the Buckingham
poll.

Lord Tebbit's comments put him on a collision course with David Cameron, the
party leader, who last month said: "In this election I would certainly urge all
Conservatives - and, indeed, supporters of all parties and of none - to vote for
the Speaker, John Bercow.'' Mr Bercow was a Tory MP before becoming Speaker last
year, but many Conservatives suspect him of getting too close to New Labour.

In an interview for BBC One's The Politics Show, Lord Tebbit said that, in the
absence of an official Conservative candidate, Tory activists should be free to
campaign and vote for whoever they choose.

"I don't think it's any business of the Conservative Party to instruct even its
activists and members in who they should vote for in that sense, or indeed
campaign for," he said.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              120 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                                 First Edition

British Muslims are running out of friends

BYLINE: Yasmin Alibhai-Brown

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1060 words


I am but Muslim lite, a non-conformist believer who will not be told what and
how by sanctimonious religious sentinels for whom religion is a long list of
rules to be obeyed by bovine followers. Readers know I am often critical of
Muslim people and nations. Bad things that happen to us cannot all be attributed
to "Islamophobia", a nebulous and imprecise concept that, like anti-Semitism,
can be used to besmirch and sully and silence criticism.

But this week even I, even I, can see that for the British establishment Muslims
are contemptible creatures, devalued humans. As I prayed before starting this
column I felt tears stinging my eyes and my face was burning as if I had been
slapped many times over. Do they expect me to turn the other cheek? Millions of
other Muslims must have felt what I did. And some may well go on to do things
they shouldn't. Their acts will intensify anti-Muslim prejudices and will be
used to justify injustice. The cycle is vicious and unrelenting.

Once again at weddings and birthday parties, in quiet, tranquil mosques, at
dinner tables across the land, including those of millionaire Muslims, I am
hearing murmurs of trepidation and disquiet - voices kept low, sometimes
vanishing into whispers, just in case; you never know if they will break down
the door. These people are, like myself, well incorporated into the nation's
busy life. Some own restaurants and businesses, others work in the City or law
firms and chambers. At one gathering a frightfully posh, Muslim public school
boy (aged 14), an excellent cricketer, said in his jagged, breaking voice: "I
will never live in this country after finishing my education. They hate us.
They'll put us all in prison. Nothing we do is OK. Do you think I am wrong Mrs
Yasmin?" No I don't, though his hot young blood makes him intemperate.

Where do I start? Well, with the PM who takes himself to the moral high ground
at every opportunity, to orate and berate as he did when called in by the placid
Chilcot panel. The son of a preacher man, John Ebenezer Brown, Gordon has the
manse gene. Unlike the shape-shifter Blair, he is authentically himself, driven
by embedded values, and I admire that. But, like his predecessor, he is
shockingly indifferent to the agony of the people most affected by the Iraq war,
a war Brown still says was "the right" thing to do for the "right reasons". His
only regret? They should have thought a bit more about what to do next after
they had defeated Saddam and pulled down his statues.

Not a word about the countless Iraqis killed when we bombed indiscriminately in
civilian areas, no word of sorrow, however hollow or feigned, about the dead
children or those now born in that blighted land with two heads and other
grotesque abnormalities. John Simpson's recent BBC report described the rising
number of such births in Fallujah, picked for the cruelest collective punishment
by America.

Are they not children, Mr Brown? You still cry for your own baby, who died so
young. For Muslims, that only confirms native Iraqis are grains of sand to those
who executed the imperial war. Martinique intellectual and liberationist Aimee
Cesaire wrote: "Colonisation works to de-civilise the coloniser, to brutalise
him ... to degrade him." We saw how with Brown, whose empathy is withheld from
Iraqis, Muslim victims tortured with the connivance of our secret services and
perhaps from all citizens who pray to Allah.

Meanwhile at Isleworth Crown Court, Judge John Denniss is industriously
sentencing demonstrators who gathered near the Israeli embassy to rail against
that state's attack on Gaza, one of the worst acts of state terrorism in recent
history. Our government said nothing then, and were therefore complicit.
Protesters came from all backgrounds but the vast majority of those arrested
were young Muslim men. Dozens are being sent down for insignificant acts of
bravado. Some were about to go to university, to train as dentists and the like.
Their homes were raided, families cowed and terrified. Joanna Gilmore, an
academic expert on public demonstrations, says never before have such
disproportionate sentences been handed out, not even with the volatile
anti-globalisation protests. Denniss intends his punishments to be a deterrent.
To deter us from what? Having the temerity to believe we live in a democracy and
are free to march?

And then the crypto-fascist, Aryan Geert Wilders, is invited into the Lords by
UKIP and crossbench peers to show his vile anti-Islam film in the name of
freedom of expression. Freedom my arse. It is just another entertaining episode
of Muslim-baiting. I dare the same peers to now invite David Irving, the
Holocaust denier, to share his thoughts freely in the Lords, and get Omar Bakri
over from the Lebanon with films of himself making fiery speeches on what to do
with infidels. Again Muslims are made to understand that different standards
apply to others. We are on trial, always, and always must expect to lose.

I am here accusing the most powerful in government, parliament and the
judiciary, not those individual MPs, peers and judges who try to do the right
thing. To them we are immensely grateful, and to the extraordinary lawyers,
activists, journalists, artists, writers and ordinary Britons fighting
ceaselessly for our liberties. We just witnessed Helena Kennedy in court
passionately defending Cossor Ali, accused of providing active support to her
convicted terrorist husband. The jury, scrupulously fair, bless them, acquitted
the young woman. Muslims involved in crime and violent Islamicism must be tried
and punished. But their acts do not give lawmakers and law keepers of this land
licence to strip the rest of us of our humanity and inviolable democratic
entitlements.

During the dark days of the conflict in Northern Ireland, the Irish in Britain
were often treated unjustly by parliament, police, judges like Lord Denning, and
vast sections of the media. Under Thatcher, miners and trades unionists were
mercilessly "tamed", too. But this time, with Muslims, the establishment has
surpassed its previous disgraceful record. They steal our human and civil rights
and don't even try to behave with a modicum of honour during and after war. The
same people call upon us to be more "British" but treat us as lesser citizens.
Deal or No Deal? You tell me.

y.alibhai-brown@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              121 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              March 8, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

'Vote out Speaker'

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 55 words


TORIES should be allowed to break an unwritten rule and vote against the Commons
Speaker, says Lord Tebbit.

Ex-Tory MP John Bercow will stand in Buckingham as an Independent at the General
Election.

The Speaker usually stands unopposed, but will face opposition from UKIP MEP
Nigel Farage.

Tory leader David Cameron is backing Bercow.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              122 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                                 March 7, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Cameron's appealing tone has made the Tories electable

SECTION: LETTERS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 504 words


SIR - Janet Daley (Comment, February 28) praises the Tories' interest in
remedying the "broken society", but expresses surprise that the Tory leadership
does not seem "impelled by outrage" about it.

This should be seen as an advantage. Too many campaigns are a turn-off because
they distress or try to guilt-trip us into supporting them. Just look at the
upsetting charity television adverts that use sound to imply the mistreatment of
children.

Surely one of David Cameron's merits is that he combines his Conservatism with
an appealing tone. Gordon Brown routinely claims to be "very angry" about things
that many of us blame him for causing in the first place. What we voters need is
not visible outrage, but practical fixes to the many social problems that 13
years of Labour misrule have left.

Maurice Taylor Bristol SIR - David Cameron says that he wants no return to the
Tory comfort zone (report, February 28), but many of his policies are directly
taken from that zone. He supports using the tax system to promote marriage,
reinvigorating the charitable sector to deal with dysfunctional communities,
repealing the foxhunting ban and promoting choice in education.

I suspect that Mr Cameron's reference to the comfort zone has more to do with
positioning his election campaign in the minds of floating voters, by being seen
to distance himself from sock-puppet villains, rather than representing any
genuine break from Tory thinking - which, after all, has always rescued Britain
from financial ruin. Alice Wilkinson London SW12 SIR - Keith Ashworth-Lord
(Letters, February 28) is wrong to suggest that David Cameron should take a more
dramatic anti-EU line. While this would undoubtedly gain some votes from Ukip,
it would cost the Conservatives the election.

Labour ministers would endlessly be on television smearing the Tories as
extreme, and they would be aided by business leaders worried about their ability
to trade with the EU and influence European regulations - rules that would still
affect their exports, regardless of whether Britain itself was an EU member.
Mark Smith Manchester SIR - One of Britain's doubts on closer European
integration was that it would lead to a loosening of the special relationship
with America.

Given that this special relationship is fast disappearing under President Obama,
surely Britain should now build stronger bonds with the EU. Edward Bryant Paris
SIR - David Cameron says we need "change" and Gordon Brown wants electoral
reform.

But the kind of change this country needs is envisaged by neither man. Instead
of politicians telling us what they will do, we should be telling them what they
must do.

In this internet age, the state's centralisation of power and politicians'
failure to listen to the public will not wash.

I recently attended a meeting in which four prospective parliamentary candidates
answered questions on fair trade, Third World debt, party co-operation and
transport and they all lacked imagination as to what was needed.

Malcolm Naylor Otley, West Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              123 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 7, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Islamophobia's mainstream appeal;
Talking points

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 184 words


It seems that the tide is turning in favour of the far-right Dutch politician
Geert Wilders. After big gains in local elections in Holland last week,
Wilders's Freedom party is on course to do well in the polls in the general
election this summer - some even believe he could be the next prime minister of
a coalition government.

Meanwhile, the British government, having previously barred him from entering
the country, allowed him to show his Islamophobic film, Fitna, at the House of
Lords on Friday. He had been invited to the Lords by the UK Independence party
leader, Lord Pearson.

Ed West, writing in The Daily Telegraph, said that although Wilders may be "a
trouble-maker with a dodgy haircut ... he's not a fascist or a racist ... he's
just a normal mainstream conservative". Toby Young, in the same paper, lauded
Wilders as "the most courageous politician in Europe ... If I am lucky enough to
catch a glimpse of his blond mane, I will salute him".

And Ben Macintyre, in The Times, admitted that while Wilders "may be dismissed
by some as a crank - he is an increasingly powerful and popular one".

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              124 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 7, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Farage farrago;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD Tories bashed, 6 Music axed and Aussies
stripped

SECTION: ECOSSE;FEATURES; Pg. 16,17

LENGTH: 112 words


10 Belgium The British MEP Nigel Farage was fined (EURO)3,000 (£2,700) by the
European parliament for his "un-parliamentary and insulting attack" on the EU
president and former Belgian prime minister, Herman Van Rompuy, 11 days ago.
Shortly after Van Rompuy made his maiden speech as president, Farage, a member
of the UK Independence party, announced that Van Rompuy had "the charisma of a
damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk".

The British politician went on to write off Belgium as "a non-country". Farage
has refused to apologise for the attack, instead revealing plans to appeal.
"Free speech," he tweeted, "is expensive in Brussels."

4 1 6 7 10 2 3 9 8 5

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              125 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 7, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

There's no debating voters have had enough of Salmond

BYLINE: JENNY HJUL

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1026 words


There may be no date yet for a general election but at least one thing is now
settled, with agreement reached at last over the live televised debates between
the three party leaders. Three? Yes, the historic head-to-heads will feature
Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg, but not Alex Salmond (nor his
counterparts in Wales and Northern Ireland).

This three-way set-up was mooted back in December so it should not come as a
surprise to Salmond, but he is mad nevertheless. In some ways, this is
understandable. Separate Scottish debates will pit him against Jim Murphy, David
Mundell and the Lib Dems' Alistair Carmichael, hardly household names compared
with the big beasts of the nationwide spat.

The SNP is still threatening legal action over its exclusion from what could be
the defining moments of the election campaign and, in a worst-case scenario,
could deny Scottish viewers the chance to observe the Westminster trio close-up.

It probably won't come to that, but the row is useful to the nationalists on two
fronts. First, it is a handy diversion from devastating opinion polls showing
support for the SNP is in freefall.

Some 61% of Scots believe a UK Labour government would be best for Scotland,
according to an Ipsos MORI poll last week. After being six points ahead of
Labour in Westminster voting intentions in August, the SNP now has little hope
of boosting its seven seats to 20, as the first minister was boasting before
Christmas.

And talking of the FM, his personalapproval rating has plummeted to 46% from a
high of 55%. Even Brown is more popular here.

Could it be that Salmond, always his party's greatest asset, is becoming like
Brown, a liability? Voters seem to have got the measure of him and his one-tune
act. He has pursued Scottishness as a goal in itself, wrapping saltires around
everything from Olympic medallists to STV schedules, but he has misread the
national mood.

The electorate has referendum fatigue, even though there hasn't been one; they
would rather mark their ballots for a cause more worthy than the breaking-up of
Britain. Having failed to flog independence to the people, Salmond finds he has
nothing else up his sleeve.

Then along come the television debates and an opportunity for the separatists to
pick a fresh fight with Westminster. This just happens to be Salmond's favourite
pastime, never more so than when there is an election looming.

Angus Robertson, the SNP's leader in the Commons, has been doing the rounds,
arguing that "the interests of the people of Scotland will be ignored and
excluded" if the debates go ahead without the nationalists.

This is disingenuous. If Salmond were let loose on national television, he would
have one topic of conversation: the constitution. While this will crop up during
the campaign, it is not the most pressing electoral issue, not even in Scotland
- especially not in Scotland. If it were, the SNP leader would be as popular as
he was in 2007.

Scottish voters do not want their country hijacked by constitutional change, and
Scottish viewers do not want their debates monopolised by it. Separatism does
not dictate the political agenda and it will not decide the election.

The people of Scotland, for whom Salmond claims to speak, demand much the same
as the people of England or Wales: an accessible and efficient health system,
schools that educate their children, effective law enforcers, and job security.

They do not like to see resources wasted on ephemera such as white papers for
referendum bills that will never see the light of day.

The debates will be spread over three nights, in three different cities, and the
three contenders for British prime minister will lay out their respective
stalls.

The initial programme will be on domestic affairs and therefore, since these
have been devolved for 10 years, largely irrelevant north of the border in terms
of content. But as these talk fests are as much about personality as politics,
people will no doubt tune in to get a look at the aspiring premiers.

Nationalists in Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland will be given their say in
regional discussions on Sky, STV and the BBC. There will be Scottish opt-outs on
News at Ten on debate nights, and extended Scottish Newsnights, offering the
public plenty of time to examine the SNP and its policies.

Considering that the party is not contesting any seats outside Scotland, that
even Salmond is not fighting his Westminster seat and is not a prime-ministerial
candidate, the arrangements are more than fair.

From a UK perspective, the SNP is peripheral - the Greens, UK Independence Party
and even the BNP polled more votes than the Scottish nationalists at the last
European elections - and on current form they are highly unlikely to hold the
balance of power in the event of a hung parliament.

It is possible for politicians to suffer from over-exposure. With his love of
the limelight, this is not something that will have occurred to Salmond, but
being "carved out" could be to his advantage.

For three years he has hogged our screens. Every week at first minister's
questions, he has out-debated his opponents; he has nothing to prove in that
department.

Yet look at the polls. Labour, despite its local inarticulacy, has soared ahead
in Scotland. If the best speakers automatically garnered the most votes, Michael
Foot might have made it to Downing Street.

If Salmond is to increase his tally of Westminster seats, he should strive to be
good in government, not good in debate. Scots who are satisfied with the SNP's
regime will not be swayed by Brown forcing a smile, nor tempted by Cameron
cracking jokes. They will stick with the party that best delivers their local
services.

And those who feel that the nationalists have failed in this duty, have
abandoned their big ideas, reneged on all their promises, and ridden roughshod
over the majority by chasing independence will vote for anyone but the SNP.

Salmond is meeting BBC bosses this week, which suggests he is determined not to
let the matter drop. He is relentless when he is running a campaign. What a pity
for Scotland that he can't run the country with the same vigour.

jenny.hjul@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              126 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 March 7, 2010
                                   Edition 1;
                                Northern Ireland

Farage farrago;
TOP STORIES FROM AROUND THE WORLD Liam Adams turns himself in as Aussies strip
off

SECTION: NEWS REVIEW;FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 109 words


10 Belgium The British MEP Nigel Farage was fined (EURO)3,000 (£2,700) by the
European parliament for his "un-parliamentary and insulting attack" on the EU
president and former Belgian prime minister, Herman Van Rompuy, 11 days ago.
Shortly after Van Rompuy made his maiden speech as president, Farage, a member
of the UK Independence party, announced that Van Rompuy had "the charisma of a
damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk".

The British politician went on to write off Belgium as "a non-country". Farage
has refused to apologise for the attack, instead revealing plans to appeal.
"Free speech," he tweeted, "is expensive in Brussels."

LOAD-DATE: March 7, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: STS


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              127 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Briefly...;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS 308; 38

LENGTH: 277  words


THE leaders of the main political parties don't need a TV debate to win votes.
All that is required is for one of them to have the guts to stand up and openly
state that they are going to rigidly control immigration and repatriate illegal
immigrants. They will automatically gain the support of the majority and will
also win back a large amount of UKIP and BNP voters.

John Davey, Leeds

WHILE it is very generous of the Falklands Islands Government ("Falklands to
give us oil", Sunday Express, February 28) to offer us a share of the income
from any oil extracted, it seems a futile gesture to give money to this country.
We do desperately need it to mitigate our national debt but I feel sure that
this country will act like a reckless lottery winner with a "spend, spend,
spend" ethos and that is even before the EU has staked its claim.

M Brown, By e-mail

THE media should drop the subject of bullying in No 10. If the PM chastises
someone he perceives as not performing, then good on him. It's the first time we
have seen any evidence that he actually has a backbone. I wouldn't imagine
previous PMs have all been sweetness and light either. I bet Maggie could cut
someone to ribbons with her tongue.

Bill Taylor, Poole, Dorset

I COULDN'T agree more with Lucy Culshaw (Your letters, February 28) in regard to
melodious music for the older listeners to BBC Radio 2. I am a busker. I love
music and I sing this genre of music in my town square and to residents of care
homes in the town. When I busk, passers-by stop and tell me of their delight in
hearing a song that they had long forgotten and how much they appreciate my
effort.

Brenda Michael, Crawley, W Sussex

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              128 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

An insult to democracy

BYLINE: By Neil Hamilton

SECTION: COLUMNS 914; 26

LENGTH: 887  words


UKIP MEP Nigel Farage has been fined ÂGBP 2,700 by the European Parliament for
saying unelected, unknown EU President Herman van Rompuy had "all the charisma
of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank clerk". He has since
apologised to bank clerks worldwide.

Farage also said van Rompuy is hostile to national sovereignty because he comes
from the "non-country" of Belgium.

From what I've seen of van Rompuy and Belgium that is fair comment.

They are upset because the truth hurts.

What a thin-skinned, lily-livered lot.

What about "sticks and stones may break my bones"? If MEPs were serious
legislators they'd get angry about serious things like the EU's
institutionalised fraud and contempt for democracy.

The House of Commons has many failings but its virtue has been robust debate and
a healthy disrespect for political panjandrums. A prime minister may be fawned
on sycophantically outside but must hold his own in the bear garden of Prime
Minister's Questions.

Michael Foot, a great parliamentarian, w as no slouch in the art of insult. He
complimented Tory chancellor Iain Macleod as "much the most intelligent member
of the Stupid Party". Later he called Norman Tebbit "a semi-housetrained
polecat" and "the most stupendously offensive man in the House". Tebbit wore
both as badges of pride. In return Foot (who was lame) was "a leg end in his own
lifetime".

Both could dish it out and take it, too.

Foot was savagely lampooned as Labour leader. When this former wild man of the
Left succeeded the avuncular Jim Callaghan, Tory MP Kenneth Baker observed:
"Labour was led by Dixon of Dock Green. Now it is led by Worzel Gummidge." Foot
never lived it down and w as depicted as a scarecrow on ITV's satirical puppet
show Spitting Image.

Tebbit relished his image as Prince of Darkness.

When Margaret Thatcher made him employment secretary to take on the unions, Eric
Varley, his Labour shadow, said: "Putting Tebbit in charge of industrial
relations is like making Dracula head of the Blood Transfusion Service."

He lapped it up.

When I was an MP this was par for the course. Geoffrey Howe didn't whinge w hen
Denis Healey ridiculed an attack by him as "like being savaged by a dead sheep".
He got his own back. The old bruiser subsequently flattered him and Howe replied
sweetly it was "like being cherished by a dead savage". TouchÃ©.

Healey was a notoriously uninhibited sprayer of colourful invective. The
reactionary Fifties MP Brigadier Terence Clark was "the nearest thing to
Neanderthal man on the Tory benches".

Cerebral Sir Keith Joseph was "a mixture of Hamlet, Rasputin and Tommy Cooper".

On the world stage Ronald Reagan "did for monetarism what the Boston strangler
did for door-to-door salesmen".

Healey particularly enjoyed offensive sallies against Thatcher, taunting Howe
that he was only the monkey, she was the organ grinder. In one debate he brought
the House down by asking: "Who is the Mephistopheles behind this shabby Faust?
The Great She-Elephant, She Who-Must-Be-Obeyed, the Catherine the Great of
Finchley, the Prime Minister herself."

Likewise, lugubrious comedian and Liberal MP Clement Freud called her Attila the
Hen. Thatcher enjoyed this caricature and played up to it. She lost no sleep
when Healey accused her after the Falklands of "charging round the country like
some bargain basement Boadicea".

She strongly approved of bargain basements and Boadicea and used it to her
advantage.

This sort of invective is well within the historical parameters of parliamentary
combat. It was said of Lloyd George:

"He is a man of splendid abilities but utterly corrupt. Like a rotten mackerel
by moonlight he shines and stinks."

Disraeli said of Lord John Russell: "If a traveller were informed such a man was
leader of the House of Commons he may begin to comprehend how the Egyptians
worshipped an insect."

Few could be more devastating than Churchill. Everyone knows his retort to
Labour's Bessie Braddock, who accused him of being drunk: "Madam, you are ugly
but I shall be sober in the morning."

EXASPERATED by Ramsay MacDonald, first Labour prime minister and a notorious
hand-wringing windbag, Winston said: "As a child I was taken to Barnum's circus,
which contained an exhibition of freaks and monstrosities. The one I most
desired to see was the Boneless Wonder but my parents thought it too revolting
for my eyes. I have waited 50 years to see the Boneless Wonder, sitting in the
prime minister's seat."

That is nothing compared to the Australian Parliament. Former prime minister
Paul Keating was known as the Lizard of Oz for his brutal insults, referring to
Malcolm Fraser, another ex-PM, as: "Like an Easter Island statue with an a***
full of razor blades."

In our House of Commons you could give no quarter in debate yet still have a
drink and a laugh with most opponents afterwards. In 1911 FE Smith, the most
acidly witty Tory MP of all time, and Churchill, then a Liberal hothead, formed
a cross-party dining club called The Other Club.

Rule 12 said:

"Nothing in the rules or intercourse of the club shall interfere with the
rancour or asperity of party politics."

To penalise an MEP for exercising free speech is anti-democratic. Being rude to
pompous nonentities like van Rompuy is positively good for them. Farage is a
hero. He takes democracy seriously. That is the real reason for his fine.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ACID WITS: From top, politicians Michael Foot, Denis Healey and Nigel
Farage. . . known for their repartee

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              129 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              March 7, 2010 Sunday
                                U.K. 2nd Edition

Tebbit: Tory voters free to unseat Speaker

SECTION: NEWS 109; 02

LENGTH: 107  words


FORMER Tory chairman Lord Tebbit put himself on collision course with David
Cameron last night after saying Conservative supporters should be free to back
Ukip's campaign to unseat the Commons Speaker.

John Bercow, who was a Tory MP before being elected Speaker, faces a challenge
from former Ukip leader Nigel Farage in the normally safe seat of Buckingham. As
is tradition, none of the major parties is fielding candidates against him but
in a interview to be shown on BBC1's The Politics Show today, he said: "I don't
think it's any business of the Conservative Party to instruct even its activists
and members in who they should vote for."

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              130 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Far-Right Dutch MP attacks Islam on Lords visit

BYLINE: Rosa Prince

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 512 words


GEERT WILDERS, the far-Right Dutch politician, used a visit to London yesterday
to launch an attack on Islam.

Hundreds of protesters gathered outside Parliament as Mr Wilders, of the Dutch
Freedom Party, criticised Muslim culture and attacked the prophet Mohammed.

He held a press conference in which he warned that if Britain did not halt
immigration from Islamic nations, the capital could be turned into "Londonistan"
within 20 years. Last year, when he attempted to travel to Britain to screen the
film Fitna, which is highly critical of Islam, Mr Wilders was detained at
Heathrow Airport and forced to return to Holland after three hours.

However, the decision by Jacqui Smith, the home secretary at the time, to ban
him from entering Britain was overturned in the High Court.

After he was invited again by Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the leader of the UK
Independence Party, and Baroness Cox, a cross-bench peer, the film was finally
screened in the Lords to an audience of around 60 people, largely made up of
researchers and secretaries.

Mr Wilders claimed that the screening was a victory for free speech. Afterwards,
he set out his view that immigration from Muslim nations to Europe should be
halted on the grounds that Islam was a "totalitarian, fascist ideology".

He said: "Islamism and democracy are incompatible. The more Islamism we have,
the more freedom we will lose and this is something worth fighting for.

"I have a problem with Islam. I have a problem with this fascist ideology of
Islam."

The Dutch MP, whose party fared well in recent local elections, giving him hope
that he could become prime minister in the forthcoming Dutch national elections,
has received death threats and faces prosecution in Muslim countries including
Jordan and Indonesia.

He has had round-the-clock protection for more than six years and disclosed that
in Holland people who shared his surname but were unrelated to him had also been
threatened by those opposed to his views.

"People who do not use democratic means like I do - and whether you totally
disagree with me or not, I am using democratic means - are using death threats,
the threat of violence and the threat of fatwas. I am in a situation I would not
wish on my worst enemy," he said.

Around 200 people took part in the protests, which blocked the main road outside
Parliament for several hours, and there were a number of arrests.

Mr Wilders said that during the Second World War, the BBC had been a beacon of
hope for countries such as Holland, which were occupied by the Nazis.

But he warned that in 20 to 30 years, it could be "Londonistan calling" rather
than "London calling" unless Britain withstood cultural attacks from Islam.

Lord Pearson said that while he did not agree with all of Mr Wilder's views, he
would "defend to the death" his right to express them.

He added: "To get these subjects discussed you have to sometimes be a little bit
naughty, you have to sometimes say things like 'ban the burka'."

Baroness Cox added: "I believe in freedom of speech. It is controversial, but we
want to have these issues raised."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Hundreds of protesters blocked the streets outside Parliament, where an
anti-Islam film by Geert Wilders, the leader of a Right-wing Dutch party, was
screened at the House of Lords
KIRSTY WIGGLESWORTH/AP & YUI MOK/PA

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              131 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

FISTS FLY AS ANTI-ISLAM MP SPEAKS TO BRITAIN

BYLINE: RiCHARD PEPPIATT

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 457 words


Wilders warns Brits of Muslim takeover

VIOLENCE erupted outside Parliament after a notorious far-right politician was
allowed to enter Britain.

The English Defence League and anti-fascist and Muslim protesters clashed
yesterday over the arrival of extremist Dutch MP Geert Wilders.

Police arrested more than 50 demonstrators as tension boiled over.

A thousand of the rival groups' supporters hurled missiles at each other just
hours after Mr Wilders, leader of the Dutch Freedom Party, showed his
anti-Islamic film Fitna to the House of Lords.

Mr Wilders' visit comes just a year after he was banned from Britain for his
far-right political views.

The 46-year-old firebrand has seen his popularity rocket in his native
Netherlands and is even being touted as a future prime minister.

In a press conference near Parliament yesterday, he branded Islam a "violent and
hateful" religion, and Allah "a mass murderer".

He added: "Islam and democracy are incompatible. The more Islam we have, the
more freedom we lose.

"I advocate in my country the complete halt of immigration from Muslim countries
and the deportation of those who want to impose Sharia law or have terrorist
sympathies.

"I believe the rest of Europe, including Britain, should take a similar stance.

"I will seek to block the building of new mosques and abolish Muslim faith
schools if I gain power.

"I do not hate Muslims, only the minority who believe in violence to achieve
their hard-line aims.

"The question that Britain must ask itself is, will their capital be London or
Londonistan in 20 years?"

The press conference was chaired by cross-party politician Baroness Cox, 72, and
UKIP leader Lord Pearson, 67.

Lady Cox said: "I may not agree with what Mr Wilders believes but this is a
victory for freedom of speech."

During the visit the English Defence League and various far-left and Muslim
groups were separated by a strong force of police.

The anti-fascist protestors sang "Nazi scum off our streets", while the EDL
responded with the same chant.

March For England leader Dave Smeeton, 54, said: "We are not racists, we just
don't want to see Britain turned into an Islamic state."

Protester Francis Aincliffe, 26, from Bradford, explained why he was at the
rally. He said: "I'm protesting against Sharia law. It's an ancient medieval
belief that has no place in modern Britain.

"I've got a four-year-old daughter and I don't want to see her exposed to all of
that."

In a statement, The Home Office said it was unhappy Mr Wilders had been invited
to Britain, adding:

"The Government continues to oppose extremism in all forms."

IS GEERT WILDERS RIGHT ABOUT ISLAM?

YES: 0901 030 0986

No text DSNO to 80088

Calls cost 25p from a BT landline.

Texts cost 25p plus network rate.

Lines close at midnight.

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANGRY MOB: A protester throws a punch during the rally
TERROR RANT: Outspoken Geert with Baroness Cox
BATTLE ZONE: Protesters make their views known on banners

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              132 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                Scottish Edition

FISTS FLY AS ANTI-ISLAM MP SPEAKS TO BRITAIN

BYLINE: RiCHARD PEPPIATT

SECTION: NEWS; 09

LENGTH: 433 words


Far-right Wilders warns of Muslim 'takeover'

VIOLENCE erupted outside Parliament after a notorious racist politician was
allowed into Britain.

The English Defence League and anti-fascist and Muslim protesters clashed
yesterday over the arrival of extremist Dutch MP Geert Wilders.

Police arrested more than 50 demonstrators as tension boiled over.

A thousand of the rival groups' supporters hurled missiles at each other just
hours after Mr Wilders, leader of the Dutch Freedom Party, showed his
anti-Islamic film Fitna to the House of Lords.

Mr Wilders' visit comes just a year after being banned from Britain for his
racist political views.

The 46-year-old firebrand has seen his popularity rocket in his native
Netherlands and is even being touted as a future prime minister.

In a press conference near Parliament, he ranted that Islam is a "violent and
hateful" religion, and Allah "a mass murderer".

He added: "Islam and democracy are incompatible. The more Islam we have, the
more freedom we lose.

"I advocate in my country the complete halt of immigration from Muslim countries
and the deportation of those who want to impose Sharia law or have terrorist
sympathies. I believe the rest of Europe, including Britain, should take a
similar stance.

"I will seek to block the building of new mosques and abolish Muslim faith
schools if I gain power.

"I do not hate Muslims, only the minority who believe in violence to achieve
their hard-line aims.

"The question Britain must ask itself is will their capital be London or
Londonistan in 20 years?"

The press conference was chaired by cross-party politician Baroness Cox, 72, and
right-wing UKIP leader Lord Pearson, 67.

Lady Cox said: "I may not agree with what Mr Wilders believes but this is a
victory for freedom of speech."

During the visit the English Defence League and various leftist and Muslim
groups were separated by a heavy police presence.

The anti-fascist protestors sang "Nazi scum off our streets", while the EDL
responded with the same chant.

March For England leader Dave Smeeton, 54, tried to justify his organisation by
saying: "We are not racists, we just don't want to see Britain turned into an
Islamic state."

Francis Aincliffe from Bradford, 26, explained why he was at the rally. He said:
"I'm protesting against Sharia law. It's an ancient medieval belief that has no
place in modern Britain.

"I've got a four-year-old daughter and I don't want to see her exposed to all of
that."

In a statement, The Home office said it was unhappy Mr Wilders had been invited
to Britain, adding:

"The Government continues to oppose extremism in all forms."

LOAD-DATE: March 18, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BATTLE ZONE: Protesters make their views known on banners
ANGRY MOB: A protester throws a punch during the rally
TERROR RANT: Outspoken Geert with Baroness Cox

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              133 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fury as Dutch MP shows anti-Islam film

BYLINE: By Martyn Brown

SECTION: NEWS 197; 04

LENGTH: 191  words


ANTI-FASCIST protesters were arrested as they staged a demo against far-Right
Dutch politician Geert Wilders who arrived in Britain yesterday.

Police faced chants of "shame on you" when they bundled members of the crowd
into vans outside the Houses of Parliament.

Controversial Wilders, 46, who wants the Koran and the burkha banned in the
Netherlands, was screening his latest film at the House of Lords.

He said the anti-Islam film Fitna and subsequent discussion was attended by
around 60 people.

The blond Dutchman last year overturned a Home Office order banning him from
entering the country on public safety grounds.

Yesterday's visit was at the invitation of UK Independence Party peer Lord
Rannoch and Baroness Cox, a former Tory peer. A Home Office spokesman said the
Government regretted the peers' decision to bring him back to Britain.

Wilders, leader of the Dutch Freedom Party, is on course to win most
Parliamentary seats in the country's June 9 election.

Yesterday he branded Islam a "violent and retarded" culture.

He claimed that Islam and democracy are "incompatible" and called for an end to
immigration to Europe from Muslim countries.

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Geert Wilders yesterday A protester is led away from Parliament

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              134 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

There is no magic bullet for Cameron's Tories

BYLINE: PATRICK O'FLYNN

SECTION: COLUMNS 871; 21

LENGTH: 836  words


DAVID CAMERON is being inundated with advice just now. Letter writers to
Conservative Campaign HQ frequently state that if he did the one thing they and
their mates at the Dog and Duck feel passionate about he would "win by a
landslide".

Offer a referendum on EU membership;

come out against the theory of man-made global warming; declare war on political
correctness; state that there will be zero immigration and that he will "give us
our country back". These are just a few of the recommendations he has received.

But there are two things that even his sternest critics can surely agree about
Cameron. One is he is not stupid. The other is he very much wants to become
prime minister. Given his resistance to being anchored by any particular
ideology one would therefore expect that if a single silver bullet did exist
then this power-hungry, clever man would have fired it by now. But the truth is
that in current political circumstances winning a Commons majority is a
fiendishly difficult task for the Tories.

Take some of the above suggestions, starting with the EU. Polls show Europe is
ranked as the ninth most important issue by the broad mass of the electorate.

Certainly Cameron would disarm the UKIP threat in marginal seats by offering an
in-orout referendum but at what cost? The BBC and Left-wing press would
slaughter him, saying he had "lurched to the Right".

Labour would level the more electorally toxic charge that he had "flip-flopped"
just before an election. The policy shift would feed into the "Con Man"
narrative it is seeking to run against Cameron. Ken Clarke would probably resign
from the Shadow Cabinet, leading to new "Tory split" stories.

And all for the ninth most salient issue.

I T WOULD be a similar story on global warming, an issue Cameron appeared
passionate about early in his leadership.

Certainly polls show most voters are irritated about the overcooking of this
theory. But making climate change denial a part of his manifesto would again see
him depicted as a shallow, Right-wing flip-flopper and could scare off crucial
middle-ofthe-road floating voters.

War on political correctness is a card he has already played but playing it much
harder would alienate groups such as gays and ethnic minority voters.

Talking more about immigration - rated in most polls as the second most
important issue for voters after the state of the economy - is something that
some of his advisers have been urging upon him.

But even I, an arch migration sceptic, concede this has to be handled with care.
Cameron chose (wrongly in my view) to make appearing relaxed about immigration a
key part of his "modernising" political brand. If he pushes migration-scepticism
too hard now he will again face the deadly flipflopper/lurch to the Right
charge.

Given that the Tories are already well ahead on the issue anyway it is natural
that he should worry about the potential downside.

Having a last-minute Shadow Cabinet reshuffle centred around getting a more
experienced figure than George Osborne in as Shadow Chancellor is something else
that has been urged upon him. Six months ago that could have been presented as
an act of ruthlessness befitting a tough leader prepared, as Jeremy Thorpe joked
of Harold Macmillan, to "lay down his friends for his life". Now it would reek
of panic.

Cameron's challenge is to push the Tory poll rating back above 40 per cent. But
in a climate where millions of voters despise all three major parties following
the expenses scandal that is nigh-on impossible.

Trying to placate every single-issue fanatic in the electorate would be like
herding cats. Get one in the pen and another will wander off. It may be that the
39 per cent average Cameron has been achieving in recent weeks is the maximum
that any "mainstream" party can achieve.

Veteran Labour campaigners are privately expressing surprise that the Tories
have not succeeded in boiling down a few key messages and communicating them to
the general public until even the least political person in the land can recite
them in his sleep. "It is strange that they are not doing better. Individually
they obviously have some good people. But if you start a sentence 'Britain needs
a Conservative government because. . .' then you have to conclude that they have
not really filled in the dots, " said one.

Filling in those dots is the task now. The country is looking for a strong,
straightforward leader who knows what he believes in and responds well under
pressure. With polling day just two months away it is too late for Cameron to
reinvent beliefs, policies and priorities.

Instead he must communicate the ones he already has with passion, vigour and
discipline. If he offers a false or half-baked prospectus voters will see it as
a telling sign of weakness.

We have reached the stage of the political cycle when the only advice any party
leader should heed is the following Shakespearean gem: "This above all: to thine
own self be true, and it must follow, as the night the day, thou canst not then
be false to any man."

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: CHALLENGE: David Cameron is struggling to seal the deal

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              135 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday

National: Dutch MP screens anti-Islam film at Lords

BYLINE: Sam Jones

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 380 words


The controversial far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders appeared at the House
of Lords yesterday to screen an anti-Islam film and denounce the religion as
"totalitarian" and incompatible with democracy.

The visit sparked demonstrations from anti-fascists and a show of support from
the far-right English Defence League.

Wilders, 46, who leads the Freedom party in the Netherlands, was banned from the
UK when Jacqui Smith was home secretary. She said his presence had the potential
to "threaten community harmony and therefore public safety".

Wilders succeeded in getting the ban overturned and told a press conference
yesterday that the Lords screening and discussion afterwards was a "victory for
freedom of speech".

"I had to debate with people who disagreed with me and people who agreed with
me," he said. Wilders said he had "nothing against Muslims whatsoever" but Islam
was a "totalitarian religion".

"Islamism and democracy are incompatible. The more Islam we have, the more
freedom we will lose and this is something worth fighting for."

Wilders, whose film describes the Qur'an as a fascist book, has received death
threats for denouncing Islam and has been under close protection for more than
five years.

Yesterday he repeated the views that have angered Muslims, saying Islam was a
"fascist ideology", "a violent and dangerous religion and a retarded culture".

Wilders, who visited the Lords at the invitation of the UK Independence party
leader, Lord Pearson, and the crossbencher Lady Cox, said: "Cultural relativism
is the greatest disease we face in Europe today."

Pearson said that while he and Wilders - "a very great man" - agreed on many
things he did not support his Dutch colleague's desire for the Qur'an to be
outlawed.

Pearson denied suggestions that Wilders' visit had been a publicity stunt
designed to woo those on the far right, saying it was a multiparty event.

Asked how many people had attended the event in the Lords, he said "about half a
dozen", adding that he was not aware of any objections or boycotts.

Geert Wilders, who describes the Qur'an as a fascist book, said screening his
film was 'victory for freedom of speech'

Captions:

A woman protests against far-right leader Geert Wilders's visit to the House of
Lords Photograph: Daniel Hambury/Stella

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              136 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday

National: Dutch MP screens anti-Islam film at Lords

BYLINE: Sam Jones

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 582 words


The controversial far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders appeared at the House
of Lords yesterday to screen an anti-Islam film and denounce the religion as
"totalitarian" and incompatible with democracy.

The visit, which was originally planned for last year, sparked demonstrations
from anti-fascists and a show of support from the far-right English Defence
League.

Wilders, 46, who leads the Freedom party in the Netherlands, was banned from the
UK when Jacqui Smith was home secretary. She said his presence had the potential
to "threaten community harmony and therefore public safety".

Wilders succeeded in getting the ban overturned and told a press conference
yesterday that he had screened his film in the Lords and discussed it afterwards
in what he termed a "victory for freedom of speech".

"I had to debate with people who disagreed with me and people who agreed with
me," he said. Wilders said he had "nothing against Muslims whatsoever" but Islam
was a "totalitarian religion".

"Islamism and democracy are incompatible. The more Islam we have, the more
freedom we will lose and this is something worth fighting for."

Wilders, whose film describes the Qur'an as a fascist book, has received death
threats for denouncing Islam and has been under close protection for more than
five years.

Yesterday afternoon he repeated the views that have angered Muslims in Europe
and across the globe, saying Islam was a "fascist ideology", "a violent and
dangerous religion and a retarded culture".

Wilders, who visited the Lords at the invitation of the UK Independence party
leader, Lord Pearson, and the crossbencher Baroness Cox, said: "Cultural
relativism is the greatest disease we face in Europe today."

Pearson said that while he and Wilders - "a very great man" - agreed on many
things he did not support his Dutch colleague's desire for the Qur'an to be
outlawed.

"If Geert is still calling for the Qur'an to be banned like Mein Kampf then I
would not agree with him," he said. "(But) the Qur'an should be very much more
discussed among the Muslim community." When Wilders was asked whether he would
engage with Muslims who reinterpreted their holy book in a manner more
compatible with his views, he replied: "If you tear the hateful passages out of
the Qur'an, you would get Donald Duck."

In any case, he said, Muslims would never abandon the text of what he called "a
terrible book".

Pearson denied suggestions that Wilders's visit had been a publicity stunt
designed to woo those on the far right, saying it was a multi-party event.

Asked how many people had attended the event in the Lords, he said "about half a
dozen", adding that he was not aware of any objections or boycotts.

Wilders was escorted from the press conference as a crowd of about 100
protesters from Unite Against Fascism (UAF) demonstrated against both his visit
and the presence nearby of the far-right English Defence League, which had
turned out to welcome the Dutch politician.

A large-scale police operation ensured that UAF and the EDL were kept well
apart.

EDL members wore shirts bearing the names of their divisions - Glossop,
Blackburn, Oldham, Stockport, Merseyside - and carried placards reading: "Gert
(sic) Wilders, England Salutes You" and "England needs a Gert (sic)".

Captions:

Geert Wilders, who describes the Qur'an as a fascist book, said screening his
film was 'victory for freedom of speech'

A woman protests against far-right leader Geert Wilder's visit to the House of
Lords Photograph: Daniel Hambury/Stella

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              137 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Islamophobia on tour: Wilders comes to Britain;
A year after his first attempt, the Dutch politician finally brought his message
here.

BYLINE: Chris Green

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1007 words


WHEN THE far-right Dutch MP Geert Wilders came to the UK to promote his brand of
Islamophobia last year, he made it only as far as Heathrow before being
unceremoniously turned away and flown back to his native country.

Yesterday, after a wait of more than a year, he returned to screen his
anti-Islamic film in the House of Lords, but unlike his earlier visit, which
provoked a storm of debate about the right to free speech, this time few people
seemed to notice.

The politician's flowing locks of swept-back blond hair have led some to
nickname him Mozart. So it was unfortunate that Mr Wilders was forced to address
the world's media yesterday in a tiny room with a piano prominently displayed in
one corner.

On the wall behind him was a portrait of Peregrine Bertie, the Duke of Ancaster
and Kesteven, whose 18th-century wig bore more than a passing resemblance to Mr
Wilders's hairstyle. The Duke's expression remained calm throughout, a
remarkable feat considering the events which unfolded in front of him.

The hot and cramped venue was selected for two reasons: its proximity to the
House of Lords, where Mr Wilders had finally succeeded in screening his
controversial short film Fitna, and its security. Only one person from each
media organisation was permitted, and all bags were searched.

Here, under the watchful eyes of his three earpiece-wearing bodyguards, the
46-year-old leader of the Freedom Party told a tense and sometimes heated press
conference that Islam was a "fascist ideology" and that the Prophet Mohamed was
"a mass murderer, a barbarian and a paedophile". He said: "I have nothing
against Muslims, but I have a problem with the Islamic ideology, which I believe
is a totalitarian ideology to be compared with other totalitarian ideologies
like communism or fascism. I believe Islam is a violent and dangerous religion
and even a retarded culture. I think we should stop the Islamisation of our
society. Islamism and democracy are incompatible. The more Islamism we have, the
more freedom we will lose and this is something worth fighting for."

He added that if his party was elected at the Netherlands' general elections in
June, he would attempt to halt all further immigration of Muslims into European
countries, and would deport Dutch citizens with Moroccan or Turkish parentage
"as soon as possible".

Mr Wilders' film Fitna, an Arabic word meaning "strife", is an incendiary
anti-Islamic piece of propaganda which the Dutch Prime Minister once said served
"no purpose other than to offend". In the 15-minute movie, sections of the Koran
are read out alongside footage of the 11 September terrorist attacks. Disturbing
images of lynchings and executions are shown, as is the beheading of the British
civil engineer Ken Bigley in Iraq in 2004. No facts or figures are quoted other
than a graph showing the increase in the number of Muslims living in Europe over
the past century. Even to be sitting in front of the cameras in central London
marked an important victory for Mr Wilders, who is awaiting trial in his home
country for discrimination and fomenting hatred. If convicted, he faces 16
months in prison, but the trial has been suspended until after the Dutch
elections, at which his party is tipped to become the second-largest in
parliament.

He has been waiting to screen his film in this country for more than a year. In
February 2009, he was detained at Heathrow and ordered to return to the
Netherlands. The then Home Secretary, Jacqui Smith, used EU laws to prevent his
visit, describing Mr Wilders as an "undesirable person" whose presence would
"threaten community harmony and therefore public safety". But his ban was
overturned at an asylum and immigration tribunal, allowing Mr Wilders to claim a
victory for free speech and misquote George Orwell.

"Even if you don't subscribe to my views, I'm able to come here and to speak out
my mind," he said. "Like George Orwell once said, the right of freedom is
especially to listen to somebody who says something that you do not want to
hear."

He was invited to Britain by Lord Pearson, the leader of the UK Independence
Party, and the cross-bencher Baroness Cox, who said they did not subscribe to Mr
Wilders's views but felt it was important he was given the chance to air them.
Lord Pearson described Mr Wilders as "a very great man" who lived with the
constant threat of assassination.

But the Ukip leader was forced to admit that only six MPs and peers had attended
the screening, and that most of the audience had been made up of parliamentary
staff. "Don't forget it's Friday," he said. "The important thing about this
debate is that it took place."

On his way to face the media, Mr Wilders drove past protesters against British
far-right groups such as the English Defence League (EDL) and the British
National Party (BNP). Their placards read: "EDL + BNP = Nazi racist thugs".
Jonathan Dodds, a 26-year-old student, said: "There's been a huge rise of
far-right groups across Europe, which is extremely alarming. That we're giving a
platform to fascists like this is scary."

But there can be no denying that Mr Wilders is a far more impressive speaker
than other far-right party leaders. After 45 minutes of questioning he had not
come close to being ruffled. And shortly after Lord Pearson declared: "We're got
to go, we're going to be late for lunch", the politician known as Mozart climbed
into his bulletproof car with his bodyguards and set off once more for the House
of Lords.

It was, if nothing else, a virtuoso performance but one that may well have been
avoided had Britain allowed his entry in the first place.

Not welcome

Banned from Britain

* Since 2005 hundreds of people who promote hatred, terrorist violence or
serious criminal activity have been banned from entering the UK. In May last
year the Government published a list of 16 "least wanted" people.

* Those excluded in recent years include religious extremists, neo-Nazis, animal
rights activists, rap artists and lifestyle gurus. But banning people based on
their political views is rare.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              138 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday

Feature - Miners pit wits against rightwingers

BYLINE: John Millington

LENGTH: 786 words


The mainstream media may have largely ignored the 25th anniversary of the end of
the miners' strike this week. But that does not mean that the issues of class
struggle have faded into the background.

This was self-evident watching the passionate, knowledgeable and heated
exchanges during a Question Time-type event at a packed Forum Theatre in Hanley,
on the day 25 years on from when the strike formally ended.

Chaired by Oliver Speight - the father of the late children's presenter Mark
Speight who tragically committed suicide two years ago - the debate brought
together panellists representing both sides of the issue.

Despite no formal NUM representation, former miners in the audience and two of
the panel more than made up for the omission.

Respect MP George Galloway and film director Ken Loach held up the flag for the
leadership of the miners, with former Tory minister Edwina Currie left with the
short straw of justifying Thatcher's role in the strike.

Political commentator David Hencke and UKIP MEP Mike Nattrass provided mixed
responses, on one level lamenting the loss of the industry, yet apportioning
equal blame for the strike on Margaret Thatcher and NUM leader Arthur Scargill.

Galloway wasted no time in demolishing Currie and Hencke in his customary manner
- referring to the former as a 'smug Tory" and the latter as "a pseudo left-wing
revisionist."

Defending legendary communist and Scottish miners' leader Mick McGahey from
claims in Hencke's recent book on the strike, Galloway said: "I was a great
friend of Mr McGahey. Your book is slanderous to the memory of a dead man.

"The miners were right, the leader was right and what has been lost in Britain
can be traced back to this great battle."

The miners' anguish in not only losing their jobs but also seeing their entire
communities devastated by the politically motivated closure of the pits was
articulated clearly with wave after wave of hostility towards the former Tory
MP.

One miner recalled how he had gone on strike, fearing that he would see his
army-serving son in a police uniform on the wrong side of the picket.

Currie asserted old and discredited arguments on several occasions,
astonishingly claiming at one point that if Scargill had held a national ballot
"he might have won!"

Quickly despatching Currie, Loach corrected her about the federal nature of
democracy within the NUM.

"It's much more nuanced than you are saying Edwina," he said.

"Area by area voted with the idea that no-one else should be allowed to vote on
somebody else's job. Those were rules carried about by the NUM executive not
just Arthur Scargill."

Another miner piled in, insisting that the full weight of the state security
services would have been mobilised to "crush" the miners even in the event of a
successful national ballot result.

Reports in other papers after the debate wrongly stated that old wounds had been
reopened - in fact the wounds have never healed.

Former miners have seen their children forced into a desolate future of
low-skilled, low-paid employment.

During the debate I put it to Currie that young people wanted dignity of labour,
decent pay and working conditions and union rights and that this could be
achieved with deep coal-mining with the right investment and new technology.

Currie could only answer by saying that Britain's labour costs were "too high"
compared with elsewhere, bizarrely adding that I could not be working class
because I was "articulate."

But Currie's obvious right-wing political points were not the only objectionable
part of her display.

She attempted to present herself as an independent-minded Tory MP seeking to
represent those "betrayed or bullied" by unions. But her mask fell when she
shrugged her shoulders at an ex-miner recalling how Special Branch's involvement
in opposing miners was a first among industrial disputes in Britain.

Her ignorance was further exposed when responding to a point about how the pit
closures had directly led to increased energy prices, causing many pensioners to
needlessly die because they can't afford to heat their homes.

Currie questioned the validity of the statement that more old people had died of
cold-related illnesses despite official statistics showing an estimated increase
in such deaths between the winters of 2009 and '10.

What all this shows is the naked class prejudice that Currie has for the
organised working class. Her suggestion that modern work should not have to
involve "getting dirt under your fingers" speaks for itself.

But the show was stolen by Galloway, Loach and the ex-miners, who between them
provided the passion anger and humour to put the case for clean coal technology
and the transfer of wealth into the hands of the workers who produce it.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              139 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday

Britain - Anti-racists confront fascist's supporters;
Protesters form human chain to stop English Defence League march

BYLINE: John Millington, Campaigns Reporter at Parliament

LENGTH: 391 words


Anti-fascist demonstrators blockaded the road outside Parliament yesterday in an
attempt to prevent a march in support of far-right Dutch politician Geert
Wilders.

The Freedom Party leader, who attempted to enter the country last February but
was detained on landing at Heathrow airport, was in Parliament yesterday at the
invitation of UK Independence Party leader Lord Pearson and cross-bencher
Baroness Cox to show his anti-Islamic film Fitna at the House of Lords.

Police arrested several protesters from a group who gathered in Millbank in a
bid to stop the far-right English Defence League marching past Parliament in
support of Mr Wilders.

Eyewitnesses claimed that police had used illegal headlock techniques to break
the human chain of protesters in the road, including on a disabled member of the
crowd.

One young woman who was dragged away complained of high blood pressure as
officers continued to lock her arms over her head - despite being horizontal on
the ground.

Originally, Unite Against Fascism had announced an emergency assembly of
activists opposite Parliament to protest against the EDL march.

But a large group of anti-racists spontaneously took to the road and began
marching towards the EDL, chanting: "These streets are our streets."

With police "kettling" their progress, a stand-off ensued with at least 150
anti-fascists blockading the road for three hours.

There was also strong trade union support for the protest.

Speaking from inside the police kettle, PCS deputy general secretary Hugh
Lanning pledged the union's full support to the campaign.

RMT London regional organiser Steve Headley reminded the crowd that their action
was in the best traditions of the International Brigades against Franco in
Spain.

"These streets will never be nazi streets," he vowed to thunderous cheers from
supporters.

NUT Newham branch Teachers Association member Miriam Scharf said that there was
no difference between the EDL and BNP, recalling the loss of her father during
the Holocaust.

"I am a Jew and a socialist. I have more than one reason to be here," she told
the Star.

Labour MP Jeremy Corbyn called on the government to stop blaming migration for
the problems of Britain.

"The EDL are exactly the same as the brownshirts of the 1930s," he said.

"We should demonstrate the benefits of a multicultural society."

- johnm@peoples-press.com

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2010 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              140 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

LORDS ISLAM STORM;
Fury at MP film

BYLINE: KEVIN SCHOFIELD

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 223 words


A CONTROVERSIAL Dutch MP previously banned from Britain sparked anger yesterday
by screening his anti-Muslim film at the House of Lords.

Geert Wilders, who leads the Netherlands' far-right Freedom Party, said his
presence at Westminster was "a victory for free speech".

But his appearance led to furious protests from hundreds of demonstrators - and
a march supporting him by the far-right English Defence League. Mr Wilders - who
has described the Koran as a "fascist book" - tried to enter the UK last
February but was sent back.

He had been banned by former Home Secretary Jacqui Smith, who said he posed a
security risk because of his extremist views. But her ruling was overturned by a
judge.

Mr Wilders, 46, showed his short film Fitna to around 60 people in the Lords. He
was there as a guest of UK Independence Party leader Lord Pearson and
crossbencher Baroness Cox.

Flanked by security guards, Mr Wilders later held a press conference at which he
said that, if he became the Dutch PM, he would ban immigration from Islamic
countries. He added: "Islamism and democracy are incompatible."

A Home Office spokesman said it had "no reason" to deny him entry.

He added: "The Government continues to oppose extremism and retains the right to
refuse foreign nationals access to the UK if we believe they represent a
threat."

k.schofield@thesun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 6, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Police guard ... Mr Wilders yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SUN


                    Copyright 2010 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                              141 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Ireland

Wilders film defended by leader of UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 131 words


TheUKIndependence Party yesterday defended inviting Geert Wilders, the far-right
Dutch politician, to the House of Lords to screen his documentary on Muslim
extremism as rival protesters clashed outside the Palace of Westminster.

Speaking to The Times, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the UKIP leader, said: "This is
a small victory for freedom of speech. He was denied it a year ago and he has
been allowed to exercise it by showing his film and answering questions."

Mr Wilders, leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, described Islam as "a fascist
ideology" and said: "I think we should stop the Islamicisation of our society."
The screening was attended by only "half a dozen" peers, according to Lord
Pearson.

The Dutch politician this week made major gains in local elections in the
Netherlands.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              142 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 1;
                                    Scotland

Wilders film defended by leader of UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 117 words


The UK Independence Party yesterday defended inviting Geert Wilders, the
far-right Dutch politician, to the House of Lords to screen his documentary on
Muslim extremism.

Speaking to The Times, Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the UKIP leader, said: "This is
a small victory for freedom of speech. He was denied it a year ago and he has
been allowed to exercise it by showing his film and answering questions." Mr
Wilders, leader of the Dutch Party for Freedom, described Islam as "a fascist
ideology" and said: "I think we should stop the Islamicisation of our society."
The screening was attended by only "half a dozen" peers, according to Lord
Pearson.

There were protests outside, and supporters also demonstrated.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              143 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 6, 2010 Saturday
                                   Edition 3;
                                National Edition

Wilders film defended by leader of UKIP

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 88 words


The UK Independence Party defended inviting Geert Wilders, the far-right Dutch
politician, to the House of Lords to screen his documentary on Muslim extremism.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the UKIP leader, said: "This is a small victory for
freedom of speech. He was denied it a year ago and he has been allowed to
exercise it by showing his film and answering questions." Mr Wilders, leader of
the Dutch Party for Freedom, described Islam as "a fascist ideology". The
screening was attended by "half a dozen" peers, Lord Pearson said.

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              144 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday

HARRIET'S MAN BAN IN 'SEXIST' COMMONS

BYLINE: BY GERRI PEEV

LENGTH: 284 words


PARLIAMENT has banished the word 'chairman' from its proceedings for being too
sexist.

MPs voted by 206 to 90 to replace it with the gender neutral 'chair' as part of
sweeping reforms in the Commons.

The move was endorsed by Commons Leader Harriet Harman, pictured, who has
spearheaded a feminist agenda at Westminster.

But Tory MP Nadine Dorries condemned the move as 'ridiculous'.

He said: 'What a complete nonsense. MPs should be getting on with the more
substantive reforms in the Commons rather than dealing with this politically
correct frippery.'

Labour was also accused of sheltering Speaker John Bercow from being deposed
from his position.

Miss Harman ignored pleas from backbenchers for a secret ballot to re-elect the
Speaker after the General Election.

Mr Bercow faces a separate challenge at the ballot box from UKIP leader Nigel
Farage, who is standing against him in his Buckinghamshire seat. However MPs
want Mr Bercow to face a secret ballot before continuing as Speaker if he does
see off Mr Farage.

Senior Tories were furious that Miss Harman had listed a raft of parliamentary
reforms but did not include the possibility of a secret ballot.

However, she said: 'We already changed the rules when we elected our Speaker,
we've actually done for the first time an election by secret ballot so we've
already addressed the issue very recently.'

The Government also blocked an attempt to give MPs a say over whether they
should elect the chairman of the controversial Intelligence and Security
Committee.

High Court judges said the panel of senior MPs, which reports to the Prime
Minister not to Parliament, were misled by the security services over their
complicity in the torture of terrorist suspects.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              145 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Far-Right leader on course to become next Dutch premier

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 499 words


THE far-Right politician Geert Wilders is poised to become the next Dutch prime
minister after making major gains in regional elections.

Municipal results announced yesterday put his party in first place in Almere, a
region near Amsterdam, and second in The Hague, one of the country's largest
cities and the seat of the Dutch government.

If repeated in national elections on June 9, the Freedom Party could win 27 out
of 150 seats, becoming the largest single party and putting him in line to
become prime minister and form a new government. Mr Wilders has called Islam a
backward religion, wants headscarves banned in public and has compared the Koran
to Mein Kampf. "We are going to conquer the entire country we are going to be
the biggest party in the country," he said after the vote.

"The Leftist elite still believes in multiculturalism, coddling criminals, a
European superstate and high taxes. But the rest of the Netherlands thinks
differently. That silent majority now has a voice."

The Freedom Party currently has nine of the 150 seats in the Dutch parliament
and five of the country's 25 European Parliament seats. But some polls suggest
it is now the most popular party in Holland.

The political mainstream made clear its outrage at the results. NRC Handelsblad,
the Dutch newspaper of record, commented: "The Dutch political system, based on
consensus and co-operation, is coming apart at the seams."

Muslims in Almere, where a third of the 190,000 population is of immigrant
origin, reacted with shock and anger. "It is terrible," said Kadriye Kacar, 35,
a computer sciences student who was born in Holland but is of Turkish descent.
"People are looking at us in a new way today as if they are thinking - 'We won
and you are leaving'.

"I don't wear a headscarf normally but I have decided to start doing so now out
of protest. Other people in my community are planning to do the same. We will
protest until Wilders is gone."

Mr Wilders's popularity has grown since he was banned from entering Britain last
year. He was arrested and deported after being declared a threat to public
safety.

The bar has now been lifted and he is due in London today to show his
anti-Muslim film, Fitna, in the House of Lords, at the invitation of Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, the Ukip leader, and Baroness Cox, a cross bench peer.

"I do not agree with Geert Wilders that the Koran should be banned - even in
Holland where Mein Kampf is banned. I don't want it banned but discussed and
specifically as to whether it may promote or justify - or has promoted or
justified - violence. I am therefore promoting freedom of speech," said Lord
Pearson.

Mr Wilders is facing prosecution in Holland for "inciting hatred" with Fitna,
which depicts the Koran burning and focuses on links between Islam and
terrorism.

Police in London are braced for protests and clashes between radical Islamists
associated with the banned Islam4UK group, the far-Right English Defence League,
the Socialist Workers Party and antifascist groups.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Geert Wilders: 'We are going to conquer the entire country,' he said
after his far-Right party made gains in regional elections

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              146 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Rompy-pumpy;
Mandrake

BYLINE: Tim Walker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 73 words


One has no truck with Nigel Farage, the former Ukip leader who was fined for
saying that Herman Van Rompuy, the European president, had, among other things,
the charisma of a damp rag.

Van Rompuy may not "stop the traffic" in the way that David Miliband had said
Tony Blair would have done in the role, but he is still un homme sérieux. If
only his own office would learn to spell his name: they have issued a statement
calling him Van Rompy.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              147 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                Scottish Edition

SNP is a minnow in the stormy seas of politics;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS 119; 39

LENGTH: 112  words


ON what grounds does the SNP's leader believe that he should be invited to the
television debates that are planned?

The statistics from the 2005 election tell us that the three national parties
received 89.7 per cent of the total vote, the two "single issue" parties, UKIP
and the Greens, received 3.2 per cent and could possibly claim any further space
on the panel, the two "nationalist" parties, SNP and BNP, received 2.2 per cent.

Should the result of the forthcoming election be a hung parliament the major
parties will be well aware of whom they would choose to work with and that will
depend upon the total number of MPs that the party can offer.

Trevor Downer, Barrhead

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              148 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

NIGEL FARAGE WAS DREADFULLY RUDE OF COURSE BUT ABSOLUTELY RIGHT;
LEADER

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: LEADER 269; 13

LENGTH: 261  words


FORMER UKIP leader Nigel Farage stood up in Brussels and told EU President
little Mister Rumpy that he had the charisma of a wet cloth.

Rude but regrettably very true.

Over here we might shrug off some pretty robust language in politics and we do.
But the Rumpy nearly fainted with shock and the serried ranks of
expenses-fiddlers reeled like corn before the gale. On BBC's Question Time the
usual line-up of Wimps-R-Us did the same, affecting deep horror. Foremost among
them, lips pursed as if sucking a lemon, was the oleaginous Peter Hain. I found
that intriguing.

The same week one of his colleagues, a Labour councillor, had called the
Conservatives "scumsucking pigs". Any objection from Mr Hain? Not a chance. And
did not his party leader the Numpty employ a professional character-assassin
called Damian McBride in the office next door and then pretend he did not know
he was there?

And did not an earlier Labour leader, still grinning away in exile, refer to the
"f****** Welsh" when the folk across Offa's dyke displeased him? Any objection
from Peter Hain?

Not a tut-tut. There is rude and there is vicious. Labour politicians should not
object to rude, they too frequently become absolutely vicious.

Over 200 years ago an outraged Lord Sandwich rose purple-faced in the House to
shout at an opponent.

"Wilkes, you will die either on the gallows or of the pox." "That, " drawled
John Wilkes without a pause, "must depend on whether I embrace your Lordship's
principles or your mistress."

Terribly rude but what a put-down.

We should have more like that, not less.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              149 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                              March 5, 2010 Friday

Geert Wilders anti-Islam film gets House of Lords screening

BYLINE: Sam Jonesguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 667 words

ABSTRACT

Dutch far right politician, who was last year banned from the UK, said film
showing was a 'victory for freedom of speech'

FULL TEXT

The controversial far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders appeared at the House
of Lords today to screen an anti-Islam film and denounce the religion as
"totalitarian" and incompatible with democracy.

The visit, which was originally planned for last year, sparked demonstrations
from anti-fascists and a show of support from the far-right English Defence
League.

Wilders, 46, who leads the Freedom party, was banned from the UK when Jacqui
Smith was home secretary. She said his presence had the potential to "threaten
community harmony and therefore public safety".

Wilders succeeded in getting the ban overturned and told a press conference that
he had screened his film in the Lords and discussed it afterwards in what he
termed a "victory for freedom of speech".

"I had to debate with people who disagreed with me and people who agreed with
me," he said.

Wilders said he had "nothing against Muslims whatsoever" but Islam was a
"totalitarian religion".

"Islamism and democracy are incompatible. The more Islam we have, the more
freedom we will lose and this is something worth fighting for."

Wilders, whose film describes the Koran as a fascist book, has received death
threats for denouncing Islam and has been under close protection for more than
five years.

This afternoon he repeated the views that have angered Muslims in Europe and
across the globe, saying Islam was a "fascist ideology", "a violent and
dangerous religion and a retarded culture".

Wilders, who visited the Lords at the invitation of the UK Independence party
leader Lord Pearson and the crossbencher Baroness Cox, said: "Cultural
relativism is the greatest disease we face in Europe today."

Lord Pearson said that while he and Wilders - "a very great man" - agreed on
many things he did not support his Dutch colleague's desire for the Koran to be
outlawed.

"If Geert is still calling for the Koran to be banned like Mein Kampf then I
would not agree with him," he said. "[But] the Koran should be very much more
discussed among the Muslim community."

When Wilders was asked whether he would engage with Muslims who reinterpreted
their holy book in a manner more compatible with his views, he replied: "If you
tear the hateful passages out of the Koran, you would get Donald Duck."

In any case, he said, Muslims would never abandon the text of what he called "a
terrible book".

Lord Pearson denied suggestions that Wilders's visit had been a publicity stunt
designed to woo those on the far right, saying it was a multi-party event.

Asked how many people had attended the event in the Lords, he said "about half a
dozen", adding that he was not aware of any objections or boycotts.

Wilders was escorted from the press conference as a crowd of about 100
protesters from Unite Against Fascism (UAF) demonstrated against both his visit
and the presence nearby of the far-right English Defence League, who had turned
out to welcome the Dutch politician.

A large-scale police operation ensured that UAF and the EDL were kept well
apart.

While the anti-fascists were waving placards reading "EDL+BNP=Nazi racist thugs"
and chanting "EDL, go to hell, and take your Nazi mates as well", members of the
league were massing further up the Thames outside Tate Britain.

After waiting around for two hours outside the gallery and in a nearby pub, the
300 EDL demonstrators began marching towards Parliament Square just before
2.30pm.

Flanked by mounted officers and escorted by a thick police line, the EDL members
wore shirts bearing the names of their divisions - Glossop, Blackburn, Oldham,
Stockport, Merseyside - and carried placards reading: "Gert [sic] Wilders,
England Salutes You" and "England needs a Gert [sic]".

The point of the march appeared to have been lost on at least one EDL member.
Spying a Dutch tricolour carried in salute to Wilders, he asked his fellow
demonstrators: "What you got a French flag for?"

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              150 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

Extreme right on the march in Europe's most tolerant nation;
Geert Wilders triumphs in Netherlands local elections

BYLINE: Vanessa Mock

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 563 words


THE ANTI-ISLAMIST party led by Dutch firebrand Geert Wilders has triumphed in
municipal polls in The Netherlands, opening the way for a political breakthrough
for the far-right in general elections in June.

Mr Wilders, known for his blond mane and due in London today to show his
anti-Islam film in the House of Lords at the invitation of a Ukip peer, has
campaigned for an immediate freeze on immigration and a ban on the wearing of
Muslim headscarves in public. His Freedom Party was declared the surprise winner
yesterday in Almere, a city just east of Amsterdam with a large immigrant
population. It came second in The Hague, the only two cities where it chose to
participate in the polls.

Wednesday's vote, in which the two main parties in the ruling coalition, the
Labour Party (PvdA) and the Christian Democrats (CDA), suffered heavy losses,
was the first electoral test since Prime Minister Jan Peter Balkenende's
government collapsed last month.

Tensions between the two sides and the recession played into Wilders' hands,
while he refused to depart from his uncompromising stance on Muslim immigration
or engage in mainstream political debates. If the local results were to
translate nationally on 9 June, 46-year-old Wilders, who faces criminal charges
for inciting hatred, could emerge as a kingmaker. An opinion poll yesterday also
showed that the Freedom Party could take most seats in the national parliament
in June.

Many Muslim residents in Almere were deeply shaken by the outcome, which gave
the Freedom Party 21.6 per cent of votes. "I will stand here until my toes
freeze," said Ayse Bayrak-de Jager, a Muslim student taking part in a silent
protest outside the town hall. Her friend, Zaitoon Shah, added: "It's just
appalling to think that I might not to be able to go to the library soon."

Kadriye Kacar, a 35-year-old IT student of Turkish origin, said: "I don't
normally wear a headscarf but I decided to today as a sign of protest. Others
are doing the same, until Wilders leaves. It's terrible. People are looking at
us differently today, as if to say 'we won and you're going to leave'."

Celebrating in a rowdy local cafe late on Wednesday, a beaming Wilders told the
city's Muslims not to be afraid "as long as they don't break the law", but he
insisted that his party would refuse to go into talks with any parties that did
not support his views. "We've always maintained that it would be unthinkable for
us to work with them. We can talk about a number of policy issues like education
and finance, but upholding the basic rights of all the people living here is
non-negotiable," said Labour councillor Alphons Muurlink.

Many shoppers at the local market told Dutch television they felt ashamed for
their city. "It's a big black stain, I don't even want to talk about it," said
one elderly woman. The Dutch Muslim Party, which failed to gain any seats, said
it was "a sad day" for the country. Leader Henny Kreeft said Wilders had traded
on "baseless fears".

The collapse of the Dutch government was triggered by a deadlock over whether to
keep some Dutch soldiers in Afghanistan after December, when a parliament
decision to withdraw from the country comes into effect. The debacle was the
last in a series of crises to have plagued the coalition, with the Christian
Democrats locking horns with their Labour colleagues over retirement age and
budget reform.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              151 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                 First Edition

BNP to appear on air after election debates;
We are merely fulfilling our legal requirements, say broadcasters as anger
mounts

BYLINE: Nigel Morris DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 449 words


THE MAJOR broadcasters are facing anger after deciding to invite Nick Griffin,
head of the British National Party, to reply to the televised leaders' debates
during the general election campaign.

The BBC, ITV and Sky this week reached agreement on the format of the three
encounters between Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

They have also agreed to give three other parties with substantial electoral
support - the Green Party, the UK Independence Party and the BNP - the
opportunity to respond.

The decision threatens a rerun of the protests faced by the BBC after Mr Griffin
appeared on BBC1's Question Time last October.

Last night the Corporation confirmed it would give him a fresh platform
immediately after the end of the BBC-hosted debate between the Tory, Labour and
Liberal Democrat leaders.

He will be invited, along with Caroline Lucas of the Greens and Nigel Farage of
Ukip, to give interviews on BBC1's News at Ten and BBC2's Newsnight, as well as
on Radio 4's Today programme the following morning.

ITV said it would also give a platform to the BNP leader, and Sky looks certain
to follow suit.

A spokesman for BBC News said the decision was aimed at ensuring that "due
impartiality is achieved in line with its election guidelines".

The BBC argues it is legally required to give airtime to the far-right party
because of the electoral support it attracted during the European elections,
when it won two seats in the European Parliament. ITV said: "We will be ensuring
that we include an appropriately wide range of views throughout our election
coverage."

But a spokesman for Searchlight, the anti-fascist magazine, said: "The BNP is
being allowed to hijack the election debates."

The BNP will also be entitled to at least one party-political broadcast on each
channel because of the large number of candidates it is fielding.

Both Ukip and the Green Party said yesterday they were unhappy at not being
invited to participate in the main debates between the leaders.

Mr Farage said: "We think the way it has been set up is unfair. We came second
across the UK in the European elections last year."

A spokesman for the Green Party said: "We would have thought the broadcasters
would recognise the Green Party has a strong claim to being part of the main
debate."

The BBC is to hold separate party leadership election debates in Scotland, Wales
and Northern Ireland, it has confirmed.

But, in a joint statement, the Scottish National Party and Plaid Cymru yesterday
denounced the "unfair treatment of Welsh and Scottish licence-fee payers who are
being denied the opportunity by the public broadcaster to hear from their
respective national parties in these set-piece leaders' debates".

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2010 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                              152 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 5, 2010 Friday 11:02 AM GMT

Geert Wilders' victory in Holland's regional elections is a victory for free
speech

BYLINE: By Toby Young

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 676 words


A good deal of hand-wringing will be taking place in Holland this morning
following the announcement that Geert Wilders' Freedom Party has made
significant gains in the country's regional elections. If the Party receives the
same support in the national elections on June 9, Geert Wilders will be
Holland's next Prime Minister. "The Dutch political system, based on consensus
and co-operation, is coming apart at the seams," noted NRC Handelsblad,
Holland's newspaper of record.

Is it? Or are the Dutch people just fed up with being told they're not allowed
to criticise Muslim extremists because to do so is "Islamophobic"? As a defender
of free speech, I don't believe for one moment that the Koran ought to be
banned. But if I was a member of the Dutch electorate I would vote for Geert
Wilders' party nonetheless because I don't think he deserves to go to jail for
16 months just for arguing that it should.

Wilders doesn't really want to ban the Koran, of course. It's a theatrical
gesture - a situationist move - designed to underline the absurdity of trying to
limit freedom of speech on the grounds that certain words or phrases or images
might move people to violence. What Wilders is saying is that if you believe the
critics of Muslim extremism should be silenced because their words might incite
religious hatred, then, logically, you ought to ban the Koran on the same
grounds. It's not a serious suggestion, so much as a reductio ad absurdum of a
completely untenable, illiberal position.

It is in this light that Fitna, Wilders' 15-minute film in which he purports to
"prove" that certain passages in the Koran have "caused" terrorist atrocities,
homophobia, misogyny ... etc., ought to be viewed. It's a work of satire, not
propaganda, designed to embarrass the left-wing apologists for Islamic
extremism.

The correct response to Fitna would have been to say, "Actually, Mr Wilders,
you've got a point. We've been far too lilly-livered when it comes to not
offending Muslims - or, indeed, members of any religion. All citizens of a
modern liberal democracy must respect the right to free speech, and if that
means some of them are going to be offended from time to time, they'll just have
to learn to take it on the chin."

Had the Dutch authorities reacted like that - and had Islamic groups simply
ignored him, which would have been the sensible thing to do - the whole Fitna
affair would have blown over in a matter of days. Instead, he's been condemned
by the international Muslim community, a shameful attempt was made to ban him
entering the UK and countless fatawa have been issued against him, including one
by Al-Qaeda. Ludicrous - and precisely the kind of fanatical intolerance that
Fitna was intended to point up.

Instead of supporting him, as they should, the Dutch authorities have put him on
trial for "inciting hatred" - a thought crime that carries a penalty of 16
months. And it is this, I'm sure, that has led to the huge surge in popular
support for Wilders. He has exposed the Dutch political class as a bunch of
pathetic quislings who tiptoe around the delicate sensibilities of their
immigrant communities while jettisoning one of the most sacred principles on
which Western civilisation is based. Clearly, the Dutch people have had enough.

Later today, Geert Wilders will be showing his film in the House of Lords at the
invitation of Lord Pearson, the United Kingdom Independence Party leader, and
Baroness Cox, a cross-bencher. They deserve our congratulations for their
willingness to stick their necks out in support of Mr Wilders. He will be
accompanied by five bodyguards, as he always is, and will have to endure the
jeers and catcalls of Islam4UK and the Socialist Workers Party. I am going to be
in Westminster later today and if I'm lucky enough to catch a glimpse of his
blond mane I will salute him. I don't agree with all his policies - I don't
think Turkey should be excluded from the European Union, for instance. But the
next Prime Minister of Holland is, by some margin, the most courageous
politician in Europe.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              153 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Tories target 40 key seats to give them precious margin of victory;
A few thousand voters in each constituency will decide outcome of the poll,
write Francis Elliott and Sam Coates

BYLINE: Francis Elliott; Sam Coates

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6,7

LENGTH: 1947 words


Locked deep within Conservative headquarters is a slim folder that contains
David Cameron's election campaign schedule. The itinerary details minute by
minute the leader's tour around the country that begins when the poll is called.

The towns and cities plotted along the route make up the election's front line
where, street by street, the parties will battle for every vote. There are fewer
than one might expect.

Even though they need to win 116 seats, the Conservatives are concentrating
their campaign on just one voter in 500. The party's marginal seats campaign,
controversially overseen by Lord Ashcroft, is focused on a few thousand voters
in each of the 30 to 40 seats that they regard as critical in determining the
outcome of the election. Although dotted around the country, there are some
geographical clusters of key constituencies. Some, such as the West and East
Midlands, are familiar from previous contests. Others, such as the North West,
have emerged from the interplay between demographic change and the national
recovery of the Conservatives.

The parties are not short of advice on whom they should target. Companies such
as Experian, which sells the marketing tool Mosaic, and CACI, the owner of a
similar database called Acorn, collect and collate huge amounts of data. Their
analysis of the key groups can be highly specific.

Voters between 30 to 44, who are married, living in a postwar house worth about
£120,000, with two cars outside, who have too many store cards but a monthly
debit payment to a cancer research charity can, for example, expect to be
contacted by at least one of the main political parties.

Typically they will hear first from a telephone canvasser. Depending on how they
answer they can expect a flood of direct mail literature tailored as closely as
possible to their concerns.

Tory strategists say that they are concentrating on about 100,000 of Britain's
45 million electorate. Lord Ashcroft has told friends that he no longer looks at
national polls because he thinks that they are irrelevant.

Last night a YouGov/Channel 4 News poll of 60 marginals put them only two points
ahead, at 39-37, down from a seven-point lead when a similar poll was conducted
in February last year. This could cause yet more anxiety: money has already been
removed from many seats that the Tories already believe have been "won" - often
those that need a swing of less than 3 per cent to the Tories. Candidates who
are judged less successful have also seen their funding stripped away.

Conservative headquarters monitors candidate performance by using polls to
measure name recognition. The candidate in Harlow, Essex, Robert Halfon, is the
most recognised in the country with 48 per cent of those polled in Harlow
knowing his name. Successful candidates measure at about 30 per cent. Newly
selected candidates can poll at about 5 per cent.

The Liberal Democrats will seek to present themselves as centre-left
progressives, promising tax cuts that will help the poor and criticising endemic
poverty after 13 years of Labour. This strategy is implicitly acknowledging that
they will do better in the northern urban areas than in their traditional
heartland in the South West.

One of their most ambitious targets is Burnley, where the Lib Dems are trying to
overturn a 5,778 majority. The incumbent, Kitty Ussher, resigned as a Labour
minister and is standing down after embarrassment over her expenses.

They are optimistic about taking Hull North and Bradford East from Labour, while
they are also putting resources in Eastbourne, held by the Tories with only 672
votes.

Lib Dem MPs acknowledge that they are unlikely to be able to hold back a rise in
enthusiasm for the Tories in parts of the South West, but insist that the
situation is not as bleak as a year ago. Lib Dems with a good local record are
hard to unseat, with Eastleigh in Hampshire, held by the former leadership
contender Chris Huhne by 534 votes, widely thought to stay yellow.

Labour, although it has fewer resources than the Tories, is direct mailing tens
of thousands of voters in the key seats. The party says that it is unlikely to
have the money for mass billboard advertising campaigns, instead producing
one-off advertisements and hoping that the media will reproduce the image.

They are increasingly optimistic that the Tory effort in the North West is
losing momentum, where the party needs to win 13 seats from Labour and three
from the Lib Dems to get a Commons majority of one. William Hague has been
running a "northern board" to boost the effort, but senior Tories say that they
cannot take victory in the urban areas north of Manchester.

Labour insists that the fight is not lost farther south, highlighting Chatham
and Aylseford, Gloucester and Hastings, Gedling, in Nottinghamshire, and
Birmingham Edgbaston as seats where they are doing better than expected.

This may also be an election where traditional assumptions are buried. The
proportion voting for each party could have less relation to the number of seats
won than any before. Close to 140 MPs have announced their intention to stand
down in advance of the campaign and all parties say that the expenses scandal is
a known unknown. UKIP will field about 470 candidates yet be competitive in only
one - Buckingham.

Independents such as Esther Ranzten, who is standing in Luton South, will
struggle but could prevent sitting MPs from hanging on.

Online

Times experts' essential general election reading
timesonline.co.uk/commentcentral

Tribal loyalties: voters who the parties are wooing

Family guys

Early middle age, married.

Recently moved into a detached postwar home. At least one partner has a
lower-managerial or professional job that pays between £25,000 and £50,000. They
take package holidays, belong to a gym and use credit to run their lives. They
say that they care about the environment but don't do much about it, they read
midmarket tabloids and consume a lot through the internet. They care less than
average about crime. They drive a lot and may well have two cars

Leafy burbs

Later middle-aged/early old age, married. Settled into a semi-detached area in a
well-established suburb. They are the older version of family guys but with less
debt and more time. They might support the RSPB, read quality newspapers or the
Daily Mail and like gardening. Most of their wealth is in the house but they
might have small share investments. The children may well be going to a faith
school and are doing nicely

Homeowning factory workers

Middle-aged, married and with few qualifications, most work in skilled
manufacturing jobs making enough for a comfortable existence despite high levels
of debt. Many once lived on council estates, but exercised their right to buy
and live in a semi worth about £100,000. They often have poor diets and inactive
lifestyles, like bingo and watch a lot of television. Most now have mortgages,
credit cards, personal loans and long-term tax-efficient savings accounts. Many
speculated with privatisation in the Eighties - and may be tempted again

Families, friends and neighbours

Young families who own their own homes, drive their own cars and hold down
responsible jobs. They live in older houses in inner-city neighbourhoods or in
small industrial towns, and depend on their neighbours, family and friends. They
regard their neighbourhoods as bad places to live and have bad habits: an
unhealthy diet, smoking and, on occasion, binge drinking. The environment isn't
a high concern in a group where money has traditionally been hard to come by

Election battleground State of the parties 2005 result adjusted for new
boundaries 326 Seats needed for overall majority 116 Conservative gain needed
for overall majority 72 Conservative gain needed to be largest party
Conservative 210 Labour 349 Lib Dem 62 Plaid Cymru 2 SNP 6.9% Swing to
Conservatives for overall majority 4.3% Swing to Conservatives to be largest
party 650 Total seats Northern Ireland 18 Others 3 96 Brecon & Radnorshire 97
Camborne & Redruth 98 Warwick & Leamington 99 Dover 100 Keighley 101 Newton
Abbot 102 Devon North 103 Poplar & Limehouse 104 Stirling 105 Plymouth Sutton &
Devonport 106 Dudley North 107 Elmet & Rothwell 108 Reading West 109 Tynemouth
110 Morecambe & Lunesdale 111 Pudsey 112 Cornwall South East 113 Ipswich 114
Bolton West 115 Bolton North East 116 Waveney 117 Sefton Central 118 Tooting 119
St Austell & Newquay 120 Amber Valley 121 Barrow & Furness 122 Winchester 123
Gloucester 124 Berwickshire, Roxburgh & Selkirk 125 Thurrock 126 Argyll & Bute
127 Brighton Pavilion 128 Dorset Mid & Poole North 129 Copeland 130 Oxford West
& Abingdon 131 Stockton South 132 Carlisle 133 Batley & Spen 134 Bath 135
Kingswood 136 Hyndburn 137 Weaver Vale 138 Renfrewshire East 139 Lancashire West
140 Vale of Clwyd 141 Moray 142 Luton South 143 Telford 144 Coventry South 145
Warwickshire North 146 Newport West 147 Crewe & Nantwich 148 Leeds North East
149 Colchester 150 Erewash 151 Dagenham & Rainham 152 Sherwood 153 Ellesmere
Port & Neston 154 Derby North 155 Sheffield Hallam 156 Harrogate & Knaresborough
157 Norwich South 158 Edinburgh South 159 Luton North 160 Chorley 141 141 41 41
30 30 Who holds the targets 104 104 126 126 The map shows the Conservatives' top
160 target seats, with 1 representing the lowest percentage swing needed to gain
the seat and 160 the largest Labour Liberal Democrat SNP Independent 158 158 138
138 124 124 London 64 73 1 Gillingham & Rainham 2 Crawley 3 York Outer 4 Romsey
& Southampton North 5 Harlow 6 Cheltenham 7 Croydon Central 8 Portsmouth North 9
Battersea 10 Hove 11 Somerton & Frome 12 Eastleigh 13 Westmorland & Lonsdale 14
Milton Keynes North 15 Stroud 16 Dartford 17 Basildon South & Thurrock East 18
Ealing Central & Acton 19 Chester, City of 20 Hereford & Herefordshire South 21
Colne Valley 22 Cardiff North 23 Hastings & Rye 24 Calder Valley 25 Stourbridge
26 Carshalton & Wallington 27 Milton Keynes South 28 Corby 29 Taunton Deane 30
Perth & North Perthshire 31 Vale of Glamorgan 32 Swindon South 33 Dorset South
34 Northampton South 35 High Peak 36 Loughborough 37 Aberconwy 38 Watford 39
Birmingham Edgbaston 40 Stafford 41 Angus 42 Broxtowe 43 Chippenham 44 Burton 45
Brighton Kemptown 46 Bury North 47 Redditch 48 Rugby 49 Pendle 50 Wolverhampton
South West 51 Carmarthen West & Pembrokeshire South 52 South Ribble 53
Derbyshire South 54 Bristol North West 55 Dumfries & Galloway 56 Tamworth 57
Torbay 58 Cleethorpes 59 Sutton & Cheam 60 Swindon North 61 Westminster North 62
Worcester 63 Cornwall North 64 Harrow East 65 Richmond Park 66 Great Yarmouth 67
Cheadle 68 Eltham 69 Brigg & Goole 70 Portsmouth South 71 Bedford 72 Stevenage
73 Hendon 74 Chatham & Aylesford 75 Brentford & Isleworth 76 Bradford West 77
Rossendale & Darwen 78 Hammersmith 79 Blackpool North & Cleveleys 80 Halifax 81
Lancaster & Fleetwood 82 Dewsbury 83 Dudley South 84 Northampton North 85
Warrington South 86 Truro & Falmouth 87 Wirral South 88 Southport 89 Lincoln 90
Leicestershire North West 91 Wyre Forest 92 Gedling 93 Halesowen & Rowley Regis
94 Nuneaton 95 Leeds North West 55 55 109 109 151 151 132 132 78 78 65 118 131
131 129 129 59 59 13 13 121 121 156 156 81 81 3 95 95 79 79 49 49 24 24 88 88 58
58 69 69 117 117 155 155 85 85 67 67 89 89 37 37 153 153 147 147 92 92 53 53 36
36 6 6 143 143 157 157 28 28 116 116 106 106 145 145 84 84 47 47 96 96 71 71 113
113 27 27 20 20 123 123 142 142 51 51 149 149 130 130 146 146 17 17 60 60 108
108 London 134 134 74 74 99 99 1 11 122 122 2 102 102 29 29 127 127 23 23 12 12
70 70 45 45 45 45 45 45 45 45 128 128 63 63 101 101 112 112 119 119 57 57 97 97
Source: Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher, University of Plymouth

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              154 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              March 5, 2010 Friday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

Election victory for anti-Muslim party;
Geert Wilders heads for Britain after poll success ; Netherlands

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 553 words


The Dutch anti-Muslim politician Geert Wilders arrives in Britain today on the
crest of an electoral triumph that could mean him entering government in a
matter of months.

Mr Wilders's Freedom Party made big gains in Dutch local elections this week,
widely regarded as a dress rehearsal for the national poll on June 9. He has
been invited to the House of Lords by Lord Pearson of Rannoch, the UKIP leader,
to show his controversial film Fitna. This has already provoked widespread anger
for its crude juxtaposition of extremist atrocities, such as beheadings and the
9/11 attacks, with verses from the Koran.

The Freedom Party, founded by Mr Wilders in 2005, won in the town of Almere,
near Amsterdam, and came second in The Hague, the only two places in which it
fielded a candidate out of 394 cities and towns, aiming for maximum impact with
minimum campaigning.

Opinion polls show Mr Wilders vying for the national lead with the Christian
Democrats, whose coalition Government collapsed last month after the Labour
Party walked out in a row over keeping Dutch troops in Afghanistan. "Today
Almere and The Hague, tomorrow the whole of the Netherlands. This is our
springboard for success in parliamentary elections," said Mr Wilders, who
campaigned in Almere for a ban on the wearing of headscarves in public. "We are
going to take the Netherlands back from the leftist elite that comforts
criminals and supports Islamisation."

Mr Wilders, distinctive with his dyed platinum hair, has progressively picked up
support from disenchanted Dutch voters by using fiery rhetoric about ending
immigration, as the Muslim population in the Netherlands has grown to one
million. He has compared the Koran to Hitler's Mein Kampf and faces criminal
charges for inciting hatred in a trial that was put on hold during the election
campaign.

Mr Wilders was banned from Britain by Jacqui Smith, the former Home Secretary,
but restrictions were overturned on appeal and today will be his second visit
since then.

After his success in Almere, where his party won the largest share of the vote
with 21.6 per cent, Mr Wilders told Muslims that they had nothing to fear "as
long as they obey the law".

Kadriye Kacar, 35, a computer sciences student who was born in the Netherlands
and lives in Almere, said: "We can feel the change already, people are looking
at us in a new way today as if they are thinking, 'We won and you are leaving'.

"I don't wear a headscarf normally, but I have decided to start doing so now out
of protest."

Mr Wilders is expected to be involved in the talks to form the next Dutch
coalition government after the June election. Unlike in other European Union
countries such as Belgium, there is no cordon sanitaire barring a party seen as
extremist from forming alliances. A place in government would emulate the
success of the far-right Danish People's Party, Denmark's third-largest, which
captured 25 parliamentary seats on a 13.8 per cent share of the vote and entered
the coalition.

The most successful far-right party in recent times in the EU was the Freedom
Party (FPO) in Austria, which joined the Government with 27 per cent of the
votes in 1999 but lost power when its support fell dramatically in 2003.

France's Jean-Marie Le Pen won 18 per cent of the vote in the French
presidential election run-off of 2002.

LOAD-DATE: March 5, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Geert Wilders's Freedom Party captured 21.6 per cent of the vote in
Almere

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              155 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

SPORTS AGENDA

LENGTH: 634 words


CHARLES SALE

BOXING promoter Frank Warren's relationship with Frank Maloney has deteriorated
to such an extent that Warren has issued a High Court writ for libel and slander
against his former colleague.

The damages claim follows Maloney's comments after his fighter Lee Haskins had
easily outpointed Warren's Don Broadhurst in their British and Commonwealth
super flyweight title fight in Newport last December. The quotes later appeared
on the Sky Sports website.

Maloney said: 'This was a mandatory fight and Broadhurst clearly wasn't ready
for the championship level and his people should have known better. Beating a
few Africans doesn't mean you are ready for an accomplished British title
fighter like Haskins.'

Warren is claiming that Maloney's comments suggested that Commonwealth gold
medallist Broadhurst, trained by ex-world champion Richie Woodhall and with 11
wins behind him, had not been prepared properly for a fight sanctioned by the
British Boxing Board of Control.

Maloney, who will be contesting the Barking seat for UKIP against BNP leader
Nick Griffin at the General Election, said: 'I'm very surprised about this writ,
which will be defended.'

MANCHESTER UNiTED will be in the unusual position next season of having a shirt
sponsor responsible for the personal insurance of some 75 per cent of the
England squad. US company Aon have a UK football insurance arm that has arranged
protection for 317 players. These include Wales and Arsenal's Aaron Ramsey
(right), who suffered a double broken leg after a challenge by Stoke's Ryan
Shawcross, also an Aon client.

MICHAEL GRADE'S challenge to succeed Lord Mawhinney as chairman of the Football
League has had to be aborted because of a conflict of interest through Grade
taking up the chairmanship of the James Grant Group. The talent agency represent
footballers including Manchester United's John O'Shea and Everton's Jack Rodwell
in their UK sports division, which is run by former Professional Footballers'
Association deputy chief executive Mick McGuire.

ENGLAND'S 2018 World Cup bid needs to shake up its event management following a
bizarre 625,000 function at Manchester Town Hall during this week's Soccerex
conference. The 400 guests were far more interested in the free drink on offer
and talking among themselves than listening to a panel including 1966 World Cup
winners George Cohen and Nobby Stiles. Video screens at the event were only
visible to a few people and the microphone for an opera singer didn't work. When
she could be heard, she sang the Liverpool anthem 'You'll Never Walk Alone' in
Manchester's most iconic building.

THE infamous, amateur, cartoon-style England 2018 video that was showcased on
the day of the World Cup draw in Cape Town has been consigned to the Wembley
dustbin. instead, the best selling point of football in England -- Premier
League goal action from a global collection of stars -- is now included in video
presentations.

THE selection of Russell Reynolds, who rarely work in sport, as headhunters to
find the next chief executive of the RFU came as a shock to rugby experts
Odgers, who believed they would be given the contract. But the tension between
the RFU and the clubs is such that Odgers' current search for a chairman for
Premiership rugby didn't help their RFU pitch.

AFTER the on-going hiatus behind the scenes at Liverpool involving the warring
American owners Tom Hicks and George Gillett, Aston Villa fans will be grateful
former chairman Doug Ellis decided to sell to Randy Lerner in preference to
Gillett, who was also interested in the Midlands club.

THE surprising choice of former Soccer AM presenter Tim Lovejoy to conduct the
draw for the fifth round of the FA Cup is now explained by his heavy involvement
in setting up the FA's new TV arm, on which he is sure to feature.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              156 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

SHOULD TV DEBATE BE OPEN TO ALL PARTIES?;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS 98; 39

LENGTH: 96  words


Yes

TO great fanfare, the debate between the three old parties on TV in the lead up
to the general election is announced to the nation (Parties agree to TV debate",
March 3).

As a prospective parliamentary candidate for the UK Independence Party, I
believe these debates are an insult to democracy.

Other parties should have an equal chance to put across their policies. Why are
the Greens, UKIP, Natural Law Party, BNP and the rest being kept out of the
debate?

This situation just goes to demonstrate the arrogance of the political
establishment.

Christopher Browne, Ottershaw, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              157 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Fears on Wilders' UK visit

SECTION: NEWS 136; 35

LENGTH: 135  words


FEARS were growing last night that far-right Dutch politician Geert Wilders
could spark furious clashes when he arrives in Britain tomorrow.

The Freedom Party leader will screen his anti-Islamic film Fitna in the House of
Lords.

Mr Wilders, who wants the Koran and the burkha banned in the Netherlands, was
invited by UK Independence Party peer Lord Rannoch and Baroness Cox, a former
Tory peer.

The visit coincides with Gordon Brown's appearance at the Iraq inquiry,
prompting concerns from the Metropolitan police.

Muslim groups are expected to protest at Mr Wilders' arrival, while the English
Defence League plans to welcome him. And the Stop the War Coalition is planning
a demo as Mr Brown faces the inquiry.

The Met said: "The English Defence League and the Stop the War Coalition are
both planning marches."

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Anti-Islamic Wilders

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              158 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

Big gains for far right leader as Dutch go to polls

BYLINE: Ian Traynor Europe editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 554 words


Geert Wilders, the Dutch far-right anti-immigrant maverick, scored big gains in
yesterday's local elections in the Netherlands, according to projections last
night, indicating he may dominate the political scene in the run-up to the
general election in three months.

Yesterday's poll, 10 days after the centrist coalition government collapsed, was
seen as a gauge of the national mood ahead of the national elections on 9 June.

Wilders last night claimed a big victory, predicting: "We are going to conquer
the entire country . . . We are going to be the biggest party in the country."

With almost 400 local authorities being contested, the focus was on only two
areas - The Hague and Almere, in the centre of the country - because of the
campaign by the anti-Muslim populist to establish his Freedom party in local
government for the first time.

According to early results this morning, he won in Almere and came second to the
Dutch Labour party in The Hague, the only two places the Freedom Party was
running because of a lack of resources and candidates.

Wilders, who likens the Qur'an to Hitler's Mein Kampf and wants Muslim
immigrants deported, is bidding fair to win the general election in June, with
the latest opinion polls predicting he might take 27 of the 150 seats in the
Netherlands' highly fragmented political scene.

The maverick rightwinger is expected at the House of Lords tomorrow on an
invitation from the UK Independence Party for a screening of his incendiary
anti-Islamic film, Fitna, after the Home Office barred him from entering Britain
last year, a ban that was rescinded.

Yesterday the civic halls in The Hague and Almere were under heavy security. In
both places and elsewhere scores of men and women turned up to vote wearing
headscarves, in protest against Wilders' demand for a tax on Muslim headgear and
for the wearing of headscarves to be banned in all public buildings.

While local elections in the Netherlands are usually a subdued affair focused on
issues such as cycle paths and rubbish collection, yesterday's poll was
dominated by immigration and Afghanistan.

The coalition government of Christian and social democrats fell 10 days ago
because the Labour party, the junior partner, refused to extend the presence of
2,000 Dutch troops in Afghanistan who are to be withdrawn from August.

It was the first Nato government to fall because of the war and the collapse
looks likely to end the career of Jan Peter Balkenende, the Christian Democrat
prime minister who has been in office for eight years.

The Afghan pullout is popular and Labour has risen in the polls as a result.
Turnout in The Hague and Almere was several points up on four years ago,
suggesting that the Freedom Party would do well.

In Almere, a new town with a population of nearly 200,000 and hardly any
immigrants, it was tipped to win.

In The Hague the contest was more even. In European elections last year the
Freedom party came second, trouncing Labour in its heartland cities of the
western and northern coasts.

Polls predict Wilders could triple his vote at the general election.

Captions:

Demonstrators in The Hague yesterday protesting at Wilders's plan to ban Muslim
headscarves Photo: Valerie Kuypers/AFP

According to projections, Geert Wilders' Freedom Party is on course to win 27
seats in the Dutch general elections in June

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              159 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

All eyes on far right leader as Dutch go to polls

BYLINE: Ian Traynor Europe editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 513 words


The Dutch went to the polls yesterday to elect local authorities in a ballot
seen as a gauge of the national mood and the strength of the far right, 10 days
after the government collapsed and three months before national elections.

With almost 400 local authorities being elected, the focus was on only two, the
votes in the capital The Hague and the central town of Almere, because of the
campaign by the anti-Muslim populist Geert Wilders to establish his Freedom
party in local government for the first time.

Wilders, who likens the Qur'an to Hitler's Mein Kampf and wants Muslim
immigrants deported, is bidding fair to win the general election in June, with
the latest opinion polls giving him 27 of the 150 seats in the Netherlands'
highly fragmented political scene.

The maverick rightwinger is expected at the House of Lords tomorrow on an
invitation from the UK Independence Party for a screening of his incendiary
anti-Islamic film, Fitna, after the Home Office barred him from entering Britain
last year, a ban that was rescinded.

Yesterday the town halls in The Hague and Almere were under heavy security
because of the tension fanned by the Freedom party campaign. In both towns and
elsewhere scores of men and women turned up to vote wearing headscarves, in an
ironic protest against Wilders's demand for a tax on Muslim headgear and for the
wearing of headscarves to be banned in all public buildings.

His Freedom party is running for only two local authorities because of a lack of
resources and candidates.

While local elections in the Netherlands are usually a subdued affair focused on
issues such as cycle paths and rubbish collection, yesterday's poll was
dominated by immigration and Afghanistan.

The coalition government of Christian and social democrats fell 10 days ago
because the Labour party, led by Wouter Bos, the finance minister, refused to
extend the presence of 2,000 Dutch troops in Afghanistan who are to be withdrawn
from August. It was the first Nato government to fall because of the war and the
collapse looks likely to end the career of Jan Peter Balkenende, the Christian
Democrat prime minister in office for eight years. The Afghan pullout is popular
and Labour has risen in the polls as a result. But Wilders appears to be the
biggest beneficiary of the political disarray.

Voter turnout in The Hague and Almere was several points up yesterday on four
years ago, suggesting the Freedom party could do well. In Almere, a new town in
the centre of the country with a population of nearly 200,000 and hardly any
immigrants, Wilders's party was being tipped to win. In The Hague the contest
was more even, with Labour and liberals also expected to do well. In European
elections last summer the Freedom party came second, trouncing Labour in its
heartland cities of the western and northern coasts.

A Wilders win in the Dutch capital would be a sensation. Polls predict he could
triple his vote at the general election.

Captions:

Voters in The Hague turn up in headscarves yesterday in an ironic protest
against Wilders Photograph: Valerie Kuypers/AFP

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              160 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

Big gains for far right leader as Dutch go to polls

BYLINE: Ian Traynor Europe editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 554 words


Geert Wilders, the Dutch far-right anti-immigrant maverick, scored big gains in
yesterday's local elections in the Netherlands, according to projections last
night, indicating he may dominate the political scene in the run-up to the
general election in three months.

Yesterday's poll, 10 days after the centrist coalition government collapsed, was
seen as a gauge of the national mood ahead of the national elections on 9 June.

Wilders last night claimed a big victory, predicting: "We are going to conquer
the entire country . . . We are going to be the biggest party in the country."

With almost 400 local authorities being contested, the focus was on only two
areas - The Hague and Almere, in the centre of the country - because of the
campaign by the anti-Muslim populist to establish his Freedom party in local
government for the first time.

According to early results this morning, he won in Almere and came second to the
Dutch Labour party in The Hague, the only two places the Freedom Party was
running because of a lack of resources and candidates.

Wilders, who likens the Qur'an to Hitler's Mein Kampf and wants Muslim
immigrants deported, is bidding fair to win the general election in June, with
the latest opinion polls predicting he might take 27 of the 150 seats in the
Netherlands' highly fragmented political scene.

The maverick rightwinger is expected at the House of Lords tomorrow on an
invitation from the UK Independence Party for a screening of his incendiary
anti-Islamic film, Fitna, after the Home Office barred him from entering Britain
last year, a ban that was rescinded.

Yesterday the civic halls in The Hague and Almere were under heavy security. In
both places and elsewhere scores of men and women turned up to vote wearing
headscarves, in protest against Wilders' demand for a tax on Muslim headgear and
for the wearing of headscarves to be banned in all public buildings.

While local elections in the Netherlands are usually a subdued affair focused on
issues such as cycle paths and rubbish collection, yesterday's poll was
dominated by immigration and Afghanistan.

The coalition government of Christian and social democrats fell 10 days ago
because the Labour party, the junior partner, refused to extend the presence of
2,000 Dutch troops in Afghanistan who are to be withdrawn from August.

It was the first Nato government to fall because of the war and the collapse
looks likely to end the career of Jan Peter Balkenende, the Christian Democrat
prime minister who has been in office for eight years.

The Afghan pullout is popular and Labour has risen in the polls as a result.
Turnout in The Hague and Almere was several points up on four years ago,
suggesting that the Freedom Party would do well.

In Almere, a new town with a population of nearly 200,000 and hardly any
immigrants, it was tipped to win.

In The Hague the contest was more even. In European elections last year the
Freedom party came second, trouncing Labour in its heartland cities of the
western and northern coasts.

Polls predict Wilders could triple his vote at the general election.

Captions:

Demonstrators in The Hague yesterday protesting at Wilders's plan to ban Muslim
headscarves Photo: Valerie Kuypers/AFP

According to projections, Geert Wilders' Freedom Party is on course to win 27
seats in the Dutch general elections in June

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              161 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

All eyes on far right leader as Dutch go to polls

BYLINE: Ian Traynor Europe editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN INTERNATIONAL PAGES; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 513 words


The Dutch went to the polls yesterday to elect local authorities in a ballot
seen as a gauge of the national mood and the strength of the far right, 10 days
after the government collapsed and three months before national elections.

With almost 400 local authorities being elected, the focus was on only two, the
votes in the capital The Hague and the central town of Almere, because of the
campaign by the anti-Muslim populist Geert Wilders to establish his Freedom
party in local government for the first time.

Wilders, who likens the Qur'an to Hitler's Mein Kampf and wants Muslim
immigrants deported, is bidding fair to win the general election in June, with
the latest opinion polls giving him 27 of the 150 seats in the Netherlands'
highly fragmented political scene.

The maverick rightwinger is expected at the House of Lords tomorrow on an
invitation from the UK Independence Party for a screening of his incendiary
anti-Islamic film, Fitna, after the Home Office barred him from entering Britain
last year, a ban that was rescinded.

Yesterday the town halls in The Hague and Almere were under heavy security
because of the tension fanned by the Freedom party campaign. In both towns and
elsewhere scores of men and women turned up to vote wearing headscarves, in an
ironic protest against Wilders's demand for a tax on Muslim headgear and for the
wearing of headscarves to be banned in all public buildings.

His Freedom party is running for only two local authorities because of a lack of
resources and candidates.

While local elections in the Netherlands are usually a subdued affair focused on
issues such as cycle paths and rubbish collection, yesterday's poll was
dominated by immigration and Afghanistan.

The coalition government of Christian and social democrats fell 10 days ago
because the Labour party, led by Wouter Bos, the finance minister, refused to
extend the presence of 2,000 Dutch troops in Afghanistan who are to be withdrawn
from August. It was the first Nato government to fall because of the war and the
collapse looks likely to end the career of Jan Peter Balkenende, the Christian
Democrat prime minister in office for eight years. The Afghan pullout is popular
and Labour has risen in the polls as a result. But Wilders appears to be the
biggest beneficiary of the political disarray.

Voter turnout in The Hague and Almere was several points up yesterday on four
years ago, suggesting the Freedom party could do well. In Almere, a new town in
the centre of the country with a population of nearly 200,000 and hardly any
immigrants, Wilders's party was being tipped to win. In The Hague the contest
was more even, with Labour and liberals also expected to do well. In European
elections last summer the Freedom party came second, trouncing Labour in its
heartland cities of the western and northern coasts.

A Wilders win in the Dutch capital would be a sensation. Polls predict he could
triple his vote at the general election.

Captions:

Voters in The Hague turn up in headscarves yesterday in an ironic protest
against Wilders Photograph: Valerie Kuypers/AFP

LOAD-DATE: March 10, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              162 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday

Geert Wilders's party wins seat in Dutch elections - early results

BYLINE: Ian Traynorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 603 words

ABSTRACT

Far-right, anti-immigrant Freedom party wins its first seat in local government
ahead of general election in June

FULL TEXT

The Dutch far-right, anti-immigrant politician Geert Wilders has won major gains
in local elections in the Netherlands, with preliminary results today indicating
he may dominate the political scene in the run-up to the general election in
three months.

Yesterday's poll, 10 days after the , was seen as a gauge of the public mood
ahead of the national elections on 9 June.

Wilders last night claimed a massive victory, predicting: "We are going to
conquer the entire country ... We are going to be the biggest party in the
country.

"The leftist elite still believes in multi-culturalism, coddling criminals, a
European super-state and high taxes," Wilders told cheering supporters at a
rally in Almere. "But the rest of the Netherlands thinks differently. That
silent majority now has a voice," he said.

With almost 400 local authorities being contested, the focus was on only two
areas - The Hague and Almere, in the centre of the country - because of
Wilders's campaign to establish his Freedom party in local government for the
first time.

According to early results, he won in Almere and came second to the Dutch Labour
party in The Hague, the only two places the Freedom party was running because of
a lack of resources and candidates.

Wilders, who likens the Qur'an to Hitler's Mein Kampf and wants Muslim
immigrants deported, is bidding to win the general election in June, with the
latest opinion polls predicting he might take 27 of the 150 seats in the
Netherlands' highly fragmented political scene.

That would make it tough for the Christian Democrats, projected to win one seat
less, to forge a strong coalition without Wilders. Months of talks between
parties, and the resulting policy vacuum, could threaten a fragile economic
recovery and cast doubt on the scope of planned budget cuts.

Wilders is expected at the House of Lords tomorrow on an invitation from the UK
Independence party for a screening of his incendiary anti-Islamic film, Fitna,
after the  last year. The ban has been rescinded.

Yesterday the civic halls in The Hague and Almere were under heavy security. In
both places and elsewhere scores of men and women turned up to vote wearing
headscarves, in protest against Wilders' demand for a tax on Muslim headgear and
for the wearing of headscarves to be banned in all public buildings.

While local elections are usually a subdued affair focused on issues such as
cycle paths and rubbish collection, yesterday's poll was dominated by
immigration and Afghanistan.

The coalition government of Christian and social democrats fell 10 days ago
because the Labour party, the junior partner, refused to extend the presence of
2,000 Dutch troops in Afghanistan, who are to be withdrawn from August.

It was the first Nato government to fall because of the war and the collapse
looks likely to end the career of Jan Peter Balkenende, the Christian Democrat
prime minister who has been in office for eight years.The Afghan pullout is
popular and Labour has risen in the polls as a result.

Turnout in The Hague and Almere was several points up on four years ago,
suggesting that the Freedom party would do well. Almere is a new town with a
population of nearly 200,000 and hardly any immigrants.

In European elections last year the Freedom party came second, trouncing Labour
in its heartland cities of the western and northern coasts.

Polls predict Wilders could triple his vote at the general election.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              163 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

BNP ARE BACK ON THE BEEB;
RACIST TO JOIN TV 'DEBATE'

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 343 words


THE BNP's Nick Griffin is to be given a new TV platform by the BBC, it was
revealed yesterday.

Despite the row in the wake of Griffin's appearance on Question Time last year,
he will appear again at the height of the general election campaign in the
spring.

The BBC said "alongside" the TV debate between leaders Gordon Brown, David
Cameron and Nick Clegg, they are to hold a "minor parties debate".

The corporation's website said: "There will be arrangements in the programming
around the BBC debate, a week before polling day, to ensure other parties which
have demonstrated they have some electoral support - UKIP, the Green Party and
the BNP - will have their say."

BNP activists hailed it as a victory for the far-right group. Deputy leader
Simon Darby said it was a "good idea to go head to head with the Greens and UKIP
".

After the Question Time bust-up, Darby also claimed the BBC are taking a softer
line with the BNP in programmes.

He said an edition of Panorama will feature the far right in the next few months
and added: "Unlike some of the previous encounters between the two bodies I
think this will be relatively straightforward. But with these guys you never
really know."

Anti-fascist group Searchlight called the plan an outrage. A spokesman said:
"Executives at the BBC have become obsessed with giving the BNP national
publicity at the licence fee payer's expense.

"These are supposed to be serious debates allowing people to make an informed
choice. Nick Griffin has no place there." Griffin's BBC Question Time spot
turned into a disaster for the Beeb and the BNP.

Riots broke out in front of the corporation's HQ after Griffin boasted it would
"propel the BNP into the big time".

But once the cameras began rolling nervous Griffin, 50, squirmed and bizarrely
claimed EU laws meant he "could not explain" why he once denied the Holocaust.
Justice Minister Jack Straw said: "We've seen that the moment anyone puts an
uncomfortable quote to him he wriggles. He wants to wriggle out of it."

Cambridge-educated Griffin was elected as a Euro MP last July.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROW Griffin on TV last year `

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              164 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

BNP ARE BACK ON THE BEEB;
RACIST TO JOIN TV 'DEBATE'

BYLINE: BOB ROBERTS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 469 words


THE BNP's Nick Griffin is to be given a new TV platform by the BBC, it was
revealed yesterday.

Despite the row in the wake of Griffin's appearance on Question Time last year,
he will appear again at the height of the general election campaign in the
spring.

The BBC said "alongside" the TV debate between leaders Gordon Brown, David
Cameron and Nick Clegg, they are to hold a "minor parties debate".

The corporation's website said: "There will be arrangements in the programming
around the BBC debate, a week before polling day, to ensure other parties which
have demonstrated they have some electoral support - UKIP, the Green Party and
the BNP - will have their say."

BNP activists hailed it as a victory for the far-right group. Deputy leader
Simon Darby said it was a "good idea to go head to head with the Greens and UKIP
".

After the Question Time bust-up, Darby also claimed the BBC are taking a softer
line with the BNP in programmes.

He said an edition of Panorama will feature the far right in the next few months
and added: "Unlike some of the previous encounters between the two bodies I
think this will be relatively straightforward. But with these guys you never
really know."

Anti-fascist group Searchlight called the plan an outrage. A spokesman said:
"Executives at the BBC have become obsessed with giving the BNP national
publicity at the licence fee payer's expense.

"These are supposed to be serious debates allowing people to make an informed
choice. Nick Griffin has no place there." Griffin's BBC Question Time spot
turned into a disaster for the Beeb and the BNP.

Riots broke out in front of the corporation's HQ after Griffin boasted it would
"propel the BNP into the big time".

But once the cameras began rolling nervous Griffin, 50, squirmed and bizarrely
claimed EU laws meant he "could not explain" why he once denied the Holocaust.
Justice Minister Jack Straw said: "We've seen that the moment anyone puts an
uncomfortable quote to him he wriggles. He wants to wriggle out of it."

Cambridge-educated Griffin was elected as a Euro MP last July.

Paxo stuffs Beeb boss

JEREMY Paxman savaged his BBC boss Mark Thompson during a live interview over
planned cuts.

On Tuesday, director general Mr Thompson announced a major shake-up of the Beeb
which he said would divert nearly pounds 600million a year to higher quality
programmes.

But yesterday he was recovering from a verbal bashing by Paxman and meeting with
unions to try to prevent strikes over his review.

Mr Thompson struggled on Newsnight to explain why digital radio station 6 Music
may be cut, and was forced to admit he didn't know what was on BBC4 that day.

He was speechless when Paxman told him it was mostly repeats.

Pop star Lily Allen, a staunch 6 Music supporter, described Mr Thompson's uneasy
performance as "squirmy wormy, stutter stutter".

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ROW Griffin on TV last year GRILLING Newsnight

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              165 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      March 4, 2010 Thursday 10:17 PM GMT

Ashcroft's strategy has given us Tory candidates straight out of TV ads for
deodorants. Will it work?

BYLINE: By Norman Tebbit

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 493 words


Whether the Conservative Party - sorry, Cameron's Conservatives - win, lose or
draw the forthcoming election, the praise or blame should go to Lord Ashcroft.

Ashcroft is an exceptionally able businessman and an exceptionally able
organiser. He is by nature a Conservative and he has a deep sense that he should
use his wealth to counter the vast wealth and power of the trades unions which
back the Labour Party.

It did not take him long to see that to form a Conservative administration the
party had to win a hundred or more critical seats. The dead safe 10,000 plus
majority seats on either side will not change sides in anything but a political
earthquake, so Ashcroft saw no sense in deploying scarce resources in them and
he took charge of the campaign to win the critical marginal seats.

He has long been hooked on opinion polls and focus groups as marketing tools.
Selling toothpaste or Conservative candidates is then just a matter of
identifying which customers who bought another brand last time around and asking
them what would make them switch brands.

In the critical seats that was pretty clear. There are a lot of voters who were
dazzled by Blair's NuLab agenda of 1997 who are disillusioned by his failure to
deliver what they voted for. All that was needed, said the Ashcroft analysis,
was to make David Cameron "the heir to Blair", the man who would deliver the
"change" and "modernization" they had voted for in 1997. The Conservative Party
had to be "detoxified"'from its "nasty past". The dinosaurs and "Turnip Taliban"
demonised and thrust aside by young people with no political past and no ties.
The sort of people you see in TV advertisements for deodorants.

That analysis of how to persuade a few hundreds of thousands of former NuLab and
Lib Dem voters to change sides in the critical seats has dominated the
repositioning of the Conservative Party on to the centre ground. It has been far
more powerful than any ideas coming from Steve Hilton, David Willetts or Mr
Coulson.

It might well deliver a greater victory to Mr Cameron than the closing gap in
the polls would suggest, by delivering a bigger swing in the seats we need to
take from NuLab and Lib Dems and Michael Ashcroft will be a hero. But if it
turns too many Tory voters towards UKIP or stay-at-homes who can see little
difference between the parties and little reason to vote in 2010 for the Nulab
agenda they voted against in 1997, David Cameron will go down to defeat at the
hands of the worst government for over a century.

Either way, it will be the Ashcroft strategy that should be given the credit or
the blame.

Putting politicans in charge of businesses is proverbially a risky business. We
shall see if the converse is true.The great hoo-hah over whether a non-dom
should be barred from politics here, or whether Ashcroft was economical with the
truth or whether Hague and Cameron should have made a closer inspection of the
mouth of this gift horse, is another matter.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              166 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             March 4, 2010 Thursday
                                   Edition 2;
                                National Edition

UKIP expels MEP after allies snub

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 72 words


The UK Independence Party has expelled one of its MEPs after she refused to sit
with its right-wing Italian allies in the European Parliament and fell out with
the former leader Nigel Farage. Nikki Sinclaire, 41, an MEP for the West
Midlands, said that she would not join UKIP's alliance with the "extremist"
Northern League of Italy. She has also said that she lost faith in Mr Farage
because of his "personal animosity" towards her.

LOAD-DATE: March 4, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              167 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

CLAPPING BAN FOR ELECTION TV DEBATES

BYLINE: BY JASON GROVES

LENGTH: 638 words


TELEVISED election debates between Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick Clegg
will take place in near silence after the broadcasters were forced to agree to a
ban on clapping.

The ruling is part of a 76-clause landmark deal signed yesterday which will
allow the historic debates to go ahead for the first time in Britain.

The ban on applause is supposedly to allow time for more questions. But it is
understood that the parties were nervous that studio audience reaction could
influence TV viewers.

The debates are likely to become the centrepiece of the election campaign. But
the rigid format will fuel fears that they could be so dull they could alienate
voters.

All three party leaders last night welcomed the agreement, which is the result
of months of behind-the-scenes negotiations.

It covers every aspect of the three 90-minute debates which will be screened by
the BBC, ITV and Sky in the weeks running up to the General Election.

Members of the studio audience, handpicked for political fairness, will be
allowed to ask questions, but only after they have been cleared for 'balance'.

Personal questions have effectively been banned by a clause that each question
must apply equally to all three leaders. But viewers will be allowed to email
questions in.

The first debate, to be held in the North West of England, will be chaired by
ITV newsreader Alastair Stewart and will focus on domestic issues such as
health, education, crime and immigration.

The second, a week later, will be held in the South West and chaired by Sky's
political editor Adam Boulton. It will focus on international affairs, such as
Afghanistan.

The final debate, to be held in the Midlands, will be chaired by BBC presenter
David Dimbleby and focus on the economy.

After the parties drew lots, Mr Clegg will open the first debate, Mr Brown the
second, and Mr Cameron the third. The three leaders will each get one minute to
answer each question. Their time will tick away on a large clock on the wall.

In a surprise move the leaders have also agreed to debate each question with
each other for four-and-a-half minutes. They have also agreed to shake hands at
the end. No dates have been announced for the debates, as they are dependent on
when Mr Brown calls the election. Both Mr Brown and Mr Cameron have hired
advisers to U.S. president Barack Obama to help them prepare for the debates.

The BBC said it would also stage separate party leader debates in Scotland,
Wales and Northern Ireland.

The BNP is to receive prime-time slots on the BBC's flagship news programmes in
the days running up to the General Election as compensation for being excluded
from the main television debates.

ITV News and Sky are expected to announce similar arrangements for the far-Right
party. Other minor parties, including the Greens and UKIP, will also benefit.

The BBC said the deal was needed to ensure political impartiality but Gerry
Gable, publisher of the anti-fascist magazine Searchlight, condemned the
decision as 'highly irresponsible'.

--

BATTLE OF THE BOX: THE RULES

-- The debates will each last 90 minutes -- The audience will be 29.5 per cent
Labour voters, 29.5 per cent Tory voters, 21 per cent Liberal Democrat voters
and 20 per cent undecided -- The broadcasters believe the debates could each
attract ten million viewers -- The audience can applaud only at the beginning
and the end of the show -- Questions will be vetted by a panel of experts to
ensure 'fairness' -- Personal questions will be banned -- Each leader will have
one minute to answer each question, followed by a longer section when they
debate the question head to head -- The first debate will be held in the North
West and focus on domestic issues -- The second debate will be held in the South
West and focus on foreign affairs -- The final debate will be held in the
Midlands and focus on the economy

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              168 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

FARAGE FINED FOR 'DAMP RAG' OUTBURST

BYLINE: BY KIRSTY WALKER

LENGTH: 199 words


FORMER UKIP leader Nigel Farage was yesterday fined £2,700 for launching a
prolonged personal attack on Europe's new President Herman Van Rompuy last week.

Mr Farage was fined ten days' pay ñ the maximum allowed ñ after refusing to
apologise for his comments, which included an attack on the people of Belgium.

Jerzy Buzek, president of the European Parliament, said he could not accept Mr
Farage's behaviour, which he described as 'inappropriate, unparliamentary and
insulting'. The UKIP MEP caused the furore by telling Mr Van Rompuy that he
possessed 'all the charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of a low-grade bank
clerk'.

Mr Farage went on to attack Mr Van Rompuy's appearance, personality, pay packet
and country.

The MEP told him: 'The question I want to ask is: Who are you? I can speak on
behalf of the majority of British people in saying that we don't know you, we
don't want you and the sooner you are put out to grass, the better.'

Following his meeting with Mr Buzek, Mr Farage, who said that he is intending to
appeal, added: 'Surely I am entitled to have a dig at a man representing
500million people, who is paid more than the U.S. President, and who has not
been elected by us?'

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2010 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              169 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Farage fined for EU chief insult

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 314 words


NIGEL FARAGE, the former leader of the UK Independence Party, has been fined
£2,700 after refusing to apologise for his outburst against the European
president.

The MEP used Herman Van Rompuy's maiden speech to the European Parliament last
week to describe him as having the "charisma of a damp rag and the appearance of
a low-grade bank clerk".

Yesterday, Mr Farage was summoned by EU officials to explain his comments.

Yves Leterme, Belgium's Prime Minister, had demanded a public apology for the
"slander" and Mr Farage's added "insult" that Mr Van Rompuy was a quiet assassin
hostile to the sovereignty of nations because he came from the "non-country" of
Belgium.

Mr Farage, who is standing against John Bercow, the Speaker of the Commons, at
the general election, was called to the office of Jerzy Buzek, the President of
the European Parliament, and told to publicly apologise to Mr Van Rompuy and
Belgium.

"I said he had the charisma of a damp rag and I challenge you to find anyone who
would say any different to that," Mr Farage said.

"The only people I am going to apologise to are bank clerks the world over. If I
have offended them, I am very sorry indeed."

Following the meeting, Mr Farage was informed by Mr Buzek that he would be fined
3,000 euros, to be deducted from his MEP allowances.

Mr Buzek, a former member of the Polish Solidarity movement which fought against
Communism in the 1980s, said Mr Farage had "insulted the dignity" of the new EU
president.

"I cannot accept this sort of behaviour," he said. "I have therefore - as an
expression of the seriousness of the matter - rescinded his right to 10 days'
daily allowance."

The latest incident follows an official reprimand for Mr Farage last November
for "violating the dignity of the individual" after he described the
newly-appointed Mr Van Rompuy and Baroness Ashton, the EU foreign minister, as
"political pygmies".

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Nigel Farage said the EU president had charisma of a damp rag and the
appearance of a low-grade bank clerk

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              170 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

Comment: Diary: A change is gonna come, Nick Griffin will tell the judge. There
may be a long wait

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 670 words


?Six days to discover whether Nick Griffin's tinkering with the British National
party whites-only membership rule will satisfy the high court. We are no longer
that nasty party everybody talks about, he will tell the learned judge. Now we
welcome everybody. And that may suffice, but it may not - for two reasons.
First, the tinkering changes things a bit, but it may not be enough to bring the
party into line with the relevant legislation. And second, it will be hard to
convince a judge that the party is a democratic vehicle, just like any other,
when its people are issuing death threats. Two have been referred to the police
in recent weeks. One by Dominic Carman, Griffin's one-time biographer who is
standing against him as a Liberal Democrat in Barking. He says his threat came
from an "identifiable individual, a BNP supporter". The other threat - a video
posted on the web in the name of Wandsworth BNP - featured Equality and Human
Rights Commission chief Trevor Phillips, the man the party loves to hate, and
suggested he be "dealt with". Both men have urged Nick to intervene and condemn
the culprits. For "this is London in 2010, not Berlin in 1933", says Carman. The
response: silence.

?On the whole, supporters of the main parties won't kill you. But in their way,
some of them, even the mild-mannered ones, can be quite volatile. Take Phil
Collins, the former speechwriter to Tony Blair, now a senior research fellow at
the London School of Economics. Known to be quiet and thoughtful in everyday
life, he is a bit of a tiger on the football pitch - and when Labour's team,
Demon Eyes, played against a side from the Royal Society of Arts and the 2020
Public Services Trust thinktank at the weekend, it seemed safe enough to have
Phil in goal. But it wasn't. He still managed "a clash of heads" with an
opposing player. He was sent off.

?The death yesterday of Winston Churchill's grandson and namesake recalls a
bitter little story told by late Clement Freud. The then Liberal MP and foodie
was on a parliamentary delegation to China where he was dismayed by the lavish
attention paid to his MP colleague, Winston Jr. Why the pampering, asked Freud.
"Ah, because his grandfather was a very famous man," was the reply. "That's the
first time I've ever been out-grandfathered," Freud said.

?The Belgians are seething following the verbal assault by Ukipian Nigel Farage
on the EU president, Herman Van Rompuy ("a damp rag"), and on Belgium itself.
"We don't want to be rude, Mr Farage," says a faux poster placed on the web.
"But go fuck yourself." And don't think that this will be the last time the Ukip
Euro chief (pictured) elects to throw a stink bomb at his EU colleagues.
Yesterday, having likened Van Rompuy to a "low-grade bank clerk", he apologised
to bank clerks. Later the MEP was fined. What's going on here? "We are in the
business of opposing a hypocritical tyranny," explained an email sent from
Farage's office to the journalist and author Walter Ellis. "Wearing its
characteristic patronising smile, the EU-elite is crushing democracy - while
pretending to promote it - and laying plans for global conquest." The union is
"threatening world peace," it says, so "courtesy and restraint are not
necessarily appropriate." Time for a hero. His name is Farage. Nigel Farage.

?Finally, didn't it say everything about the government's woes that when the PM
was asked to name his favourite biscuit, chaos followed. No answer for an hour,
and then a desperate tweet. "Anything with a bit of chocolate," Gordon said. But
when Mumsnet asked the same question yesterday, this time of Douglas Alexander,
the minister and election coordinator, he was ready for it. "Terrible admission,
and not very patriotic, but my favourite are chocolate Leibniz - a slab of
chocolate pretending to be a biscuit," he said. "Prefer the dark chocolate ones
to the milk ones - and, of course, I hope that they will soon embrace Fairtade."
A fine answer. Concise, confident. At last, they've got a grip.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2010 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              171 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

Lord Ashcroft row: the media are not flogging a dead horse

BYLINE: Michael Whiteguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 922 words

ABSTRACT

Michael White: The more David Cameron tries to shrug it off, the more people
wonder what hold Lord Ashcroft has over him - or the party

FULL TEXT

What a cheering story on today's  today, one which salutes the power of great
wealth to do good as well as harm, a power which capitalism has been in danger
of smothering by its own shortsighted greed in recent years.

Today's reports lay out the prospect that a group of hardcore Manchester United
fans in the City, men with the smarts and the money to do it, are serious about
prising their club out of the grisly hands of the Glazer family. It's cheering,
healthy even, to be reminded that great wealth can do fine things if used with
an eye to the greater good.

Saving an iconic (dreadful word, sorry) football club is not quite on the scale
of Bill and Melinda Gates giving their billions to alleviate avoidable disease
and hunger in Africa, but it's on the right lines. As  points out, no one except
managers and players really make money out of football.

Plenty of such altruism happens all the time. Warren Buffett, the sage of Omaha
(it's like being a zillionaire but staying in Exeter), arguably the world's
greatest private investor, has settled modest sums on his children and giving
the bulk to the Gates Foundation. He reckons Bill and Mel know better how to
spend it.

Which brings me to Lord Ashcroft's case. How? I'll explain in a moment. But,
even making generous allowances for pre-election politicking over his tax
status, it is a pretty remarkable story.

As details tumble out, it becomes less clear what key players understood by the
Tory deputy chairman's "clear and unequivocal assurance that I have decided to
take up permanent residence in the UK again" before getting that peerage in
2000.

So no, David Cameron, the media are not flogging a dead horse. This nag has
several laps to run before - as may happen - it falls spectacularly at Beecher's
Brook for reasons yet to be disclosed.

again today.  - so outraged over MPs' dodgy expenses claims, which are
themselves a byproduct of the loadsamoney culture - has been burying the story.

So does the Mail, which prints an attack on Lib-Lab hypocrisy in taking money
from non-doms. It's , co-founder or the Indy, ex-editor of the Sindy and a
pretty resourceful hatchet man on a good day. Today's is a pretty feeble piece
and ducks the main issue.

That issue is Lord Ashcroft's importance to the Tory project since 1997, quite
unlike Lord Paul or other Labour-donor non-doms. It is not just the scale of his
donations that matter, massaged down by selective quotation though they are by
Tory HQ, but his access to policymaking - and policymakers - and his substantial
control over marginal seats policy.

It is a key factor in the coming general election, one which may decide the
outcome in the Tory direction, despite the narrowing polls. Rival parties will
be able to say - are saying - that Lord Ashcroft is using what should have been
taxpayers' money to finance his campaign in the marginals.

Legal, I hasten to add, but not wholesome. It is possible, as some pundits
claim, that few voters ("they're all the same") give a toss about it all.  the
controversy may reinforce disquiet about the Cameroon metropolitan elite, which
plays by rules which make even MPs duck-houses-on-expenses folly look quite
modest.

But it gets worse. The more David Cameron tries to shrug it off, the more people
wonder what hold Ashcroft has over him - or the party.

I put it that way because - with the clear exception of straight-arrow Sir
George Young (who blurted out the truth on Newsnight) top Tories seem afraid of
Ashcroft, their judgment warped.

Was this not the Cameron who ruthlessly purged dodgy expense claimants and the
Monaco-residing Lord Laidlaw? Yes. So why is Michael Ashcroft still at his large
desk in party HQ?

Good question Mike, and there are plenty of Ukip-friendly Tories out there who
don't like Dave -  - and may know some answers. These are the kind of people who
understand money.

Hague's judgment, already under fire over his Euro-sceptic manoeuvres, looks
ropier by virtue of his supine bag-carrying for Ashcroft. Perhaps that's why he
clings to Europe-bashing - as an insurance policy? Just a thought.

A final Warren Buffet-linked thought on the character question is this. Ashcroft
does not have two heads, and can be charm itself when it suits him.

Starting from modest beginnings he made a great fortune, most of it after he
left London, where his business dealing puzzled many analysts - as they still do
in Belize, his spiritual home, so he says.

Good for him, you might say, he can chip in to save Man U from the Glazers. I
might agree if I knew more reassuring details about how he operates.

But one of Ashcroft's hobbies is collecting Victoria Crosses. He has acquired
152, the world's largest collection of Britain's highest medal for gallantry in
battle, awarded since 1854 to men who performed extraordinary acts of courage -
as .

He has even given £5m to help create a special gallery for VCs - including his
own collection - at the Imperial War Museum in South London. I read somewhere
that it might become the Ashcroft Gallery. But the VC is identified with
courage, and courage is something money cannot buy. It would be inappropriate to
say the least.

And Warren Buffett wouldn't do it.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              172 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday

All eyes on far-right Geert Wilders as Dutch go to the polls

BYLINE: Ian Traynorguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 544 words

ABSTRACT

Anti-Muslim populist hopes to establish Freedom party at local government level
for first time as general election looms

FULL TEXT

The Dutch went to the polls today to elect local authorities in a ballot seen as
a gauge of the national mood and the strength of the far right, 10 days after
the government collapsed and three months before national elections.

With almost 400 local authorities being elected, the focus was on only two, the
votes in the capital The Hague and the central town of Almere, because of the
campaign by the anti-Muslim populist Geert Wilders to establish his Freedom
party in local government for the first time.

Wilders, who likens the Qur'an to Hitler's Mein Kampf and wants Muslim
immigrants deported, is bidding fair to win the general election in June, with
the latest opinion polls giving him 27 of the 150 seats in The Netherlands'
highly fragmented political scene.

The maverick rightwinger is expected at the House of Lords on Friday on an
invitation from the UK Independence Party for a screening of his incendiary
anti-Islamic film, Fitna, after the Home Office barred him from entering Britain
last year, a ban that was rescinded.

Today the town halls in The Hague and Almere were under heavy security because
of the tension fanned by the Freedom party campaign. In both towns and elsewhere
scores of men and women turned up to vote wearing headscarves, in an ironic
protest against Wilders's demand for a tax on Muslim headgear and for the
wearing of headscarves to be banned in all public buildings.

His Freedom party is running for only two local authorities because of a lack of
resources and candidates.

While local elections in Holland are usually a subdued affair focused on issues
such as cycle paths and rubbish collection, today's poll was dominated by
immigration and Afghanistan.

The coalition government of Christian and social democrats fell 10 days ago
because the Labour party, led by Wouter Bos, the finance minister, refused to
extend the presence of 2,000 Dutch troops in Afghanistan who are to be withdrawn
from August. It was the first Nato government to fall because of the war and the
collapse looks likely to end the career of Jan Peter Balkenende, the Christian
Democrat prime minister in office for eight years. The Afghan pullout is popular
and Labour has risen in the polls as a result. But Wilders appears to be the
biggest beneficiary of the political disarray.

Voter turnout in The Hague and Almere was several points up today on four years
ago, suggesting the Freedom party could do well. In Almere, a new town in
central Holland with a population of nearly 200,000 and hardly any immigrants,
Wilders's party was being tipped to win. In The Hague the contest was more even,
with Labour and liberals also expected to do well. In European elections last
summer the Freedom party came second, trouncing Labour in its heartland cities
of the western and northern coasts.

A Wilders win in the Dutch capital would be a sensation. Polls predict he could
triple his vote at the general election.

Several centre and leftwing parties have erected a cordon sanitaire around
Wilders, vowing not to coalesce with him in government. But the Christian
Democrats and some rightwing liberals are hedging their bets.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              173 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                 Ulster Edition

PAISLEY PATTERN SUITS RENEGADE UKIP CHIEF

BYLINE: MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: EDITORIAL; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 178 words


OBVIOUSLY UKIP boss Nigel Farage was playing to a home audience when he
lambasted European Council President Herman Van Rompuy for having "the charisma
of a damp rag".

His rant in the European Parliament last week is now expected to land him with
some sanction or another. This of course will only bolster his stance as the man
fighting for Britain in this vipers' nest that is trying to steal our pound and
make us travel in kilometres instead of miles.

Being a Eurosceptic is fair enough, but delivering such a tirade against someone
other than a war criminal is a bit out of order and you would wonder what sort
of voters UKIP is aiming at if that's the sort of currency that appeals to them.

Maybe they're feeding from the same bowl as the BNP.

Of course tirades in the European Parliament can be beneficial to your electoral
prospects as a man soon to be former North Antrim MP will attest.

As for Paisley, is it not about time some fans up Ballymena way built a statue
in his honour? Then again, the critics might say it's the only thing he ever did
to be set in stone.

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2010 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                              174 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            March 3, 2010 Wednesday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

The blond bombshell blows in, looking for a fight;
Banned and threatened, Geert Wilders is shaking the liberals of Europe, Ben
Macintyre writes

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 32,33

LENGTH: 1454 words


Boyish, topped with a bouffant mane of bleached blond hair, cheerful and
cherubic, Geert Wilders is the unlikely new face of the far Right in Europe. But
appearances are deceptive. The leader of the Dutch anti-immigration Freedom
Party has emerged as one of the most divisive politicians in Europe, the
purveyor of a virulent brand of anti-Islamic rhetoric that calls for a tax on
Islamic headscarves and a ban on the Koran, which he likens to Mein Kampf.

Mr Wilders is facing trial in a Dutch court for "inciting hatred". Last year he
was banned from Britain and turned away at Heathrow when he arrived here
planning to show his short film, an incendiary anti-Islamic diatribe that the
Dutch Prime Minister described as serving "no purpose other than to offend".

On Friday, after successfully appealing against the Home Office ban, Mr Wilders
will return to Britain at the invitation of the UK Independence Party (UKIP) to
show his controversial film to an invited audience at the House of Lords. The
English Defence League is expected to demonstrate in his support and Muslim
groups are all but certain to mount protests.

To his enemies, the 46-year-old Dutchman is an oldfashioned racist demagogue in
a new suit; a bottle-blond bigot. To his growing ranks of supporters he is a
champion of free speech, a bulwark against what he calls "the Islamic invasion
of Holland". He may be dismissed by some as a crank but he is an increasingly
powerful and popular one. On February 20 the Dutch centrist coalition Government
collapsed, deeply divided over keeping troops in Afghanistan, paving the way for
a general election in June in which the Freedom Party is expected to do
extremely well. Polls suggest that the party will triple its tally of seats,
becoming at least the second-biggest parliamentary party and quite possibly the
overall winner. Mr Wilders is likely to be a key player in any coalition, with a
profound impact on the political agenda.

Nicknamed "Mozart" on account of a platinum hairdo that looks strikingly like an
18th-century wig, Mr Wilders has played on the dischords in Dutch society with
virtuoso skill. As in Britain, many Dutch voters are alarmed by the scale of
immigration, battered by the global economic crisis, culturally anxious and
increasingly receptive to his grim warnings about a "tsunami of Islamification".

The political heir to Pim Fortuyn, the Dutch populist politician who called for
a halt to Muslim immigration and who was murdered in the 2002 election campaign,
Mr Wilders has portrayed himself as the only politician in his country brave
enough to stand up to militant Islam, a threat that he has compared to Nazism.
"A century ago there were approximately 50 Muslims in the Netherlands.

Today there are about one million. Where will it end? We are heading for the end
of European civilisation," he predicts. Promising strict limits on immigration,
he has also called for a "head-rag tax" of ¤1,000 (£922) a year on Muslim women
wearing headscarves.

In 2008 he released a 15-minute film entitled Fitna (the Arabic word for
"strife") which provoked outrage across the Muslim world: it opens with an image
of the Koran, followed by footage of terrorist attacks and a litany of stonings,
beheadings, honour killings, homophobia and child marriages. It ends,
predictably, with the Danish cartoon of the Prophet Muhammad that sparked fury
in 2006. Al-Qaeda is believed to have ordered the killing of Mr Wilders after
the film was released. Ban Ki Moon, the UN Secretary-General, has described the
Dutch politician as "offensively anti-Islamic". His most incendiary remarks are
aimed at the Koran, which he calls a fascist book. "The Koran incites to hatred
and calls for murder and mayhem," Mr Wilders told the Dutch Parliament. "It is
an absolute necessity that the Koran be banned for the defence and reinforcement
of our civilisation and our constitutional state."

In January a Dutch court ordered the public prosecutor to try Mr Wilders on
charges of fomenting hatred and discrimination. Mr Wilders indicated that he
would call witnesses in order to prove Koran-inspired violence, including
Mohammed Bouyeri, the man convicted of murdering the Dutch film-maker Theo van
Gogh in 2004.

Although he faces 16 months in prison if convicted, the trial represents a
political goldmine for Mr Wilders and helps to explain his recent rise in
opinion polls. If he is convicted he will paint himself as martyr to political
correctness; if he is acquitted he will claim vindication.

The trial has been suspended until after the election. Inadvertently, Britain
also did much to boost his standing in February last year by banning him from
entering the country as an "undesirable person", citing EU laws enabling member
states to exclude someone whose presence could threaten public security. Mr
Wilders loudly condemned Gordon Brown as "the biggest coward in Europe" and some
84 per cent of Dutch voters objected to the way that Mr Wilders had been ejected
by Britain.

The ban was later overturned by an asylum and immigration tribunal. On Friday,
at the invitation of the UKIP leader Lord Pearson of Rannoch and Baroness Cox of
Queensbury, he will show Fitna to MPs, peers and guests before giving a press
conference at Westminster.

"The issue of militant Islam is the greatest issue facing our Judeo-Christian
culture," Lord Pearson said. "I don't agree that the Koran should be banned but
we want it discussed ... mild Muslims should stand up and debate their militant
co-religionists."

Mr Wilders has sought to distance himself and his party from the traditional
standard-bearers of the extreme Right in Europe, such as Jean-Marie Le Pen of
the National Front in France and the late Jörg Haider of the Freedom Party in
Austria. He has made no contact with the BNP. "My allies are not Le Pen and
Haider," he says. "I'm very afraid of being linked with the wrong rightist
fascist groups." His prime political role models are said to be Margaret
Thatcher and Winston Churchill.

The son of a printer, Mr Wilders was raised Roman Catholic but is now an
atheist. He worked in a Dutch social insurance agency before becoming a
speechwriter and then MP for the liberal People's Party, which he left in 2004
to form his own party.

As a prime terrorist target he lives under 24-hour police guard, changing his
location nightly. He is seldom seen in public and gives few interviews. Even
contact with his wife, a Dutch-Hungarian former diplomat, is limited by security
concerns, This way of life, under constant threat, is "a situation I wouldn't
wish on my worst enemy", he once remarked.

"They are trying to shoot him all the time," says Lord Pearson, noting that Mr
Wilders will be coming to Britain with five state-hired Dutch bodyguards. "He
has a really, really tough existence."

Mr Wilders opposes expansion of the EU, most particularly Turkish membership,
and Dutch military deployment in Afghanistan, but the core of his message lies
in an appeal to defend traditional Dutch culture against perceived encroachment
by Islam. "Islam is the Trojan Horse in Europe," he told the Dutch Parliament.
"Stop all immigration from Muslim countries, ban all building of new mosques,
close all Islamic schools, ban burkas and the Koran ... Stop Islamification.
Enough is enough!"

Some polls suggest that after the June elections Mr Wilders may lead the biggest
single parliamentary party, raising the prospect that a former fringe provincial
politician with extreme views and peculiar hair could end up leading the
country. "At some point it's going to happen and then it will be a big honour to
fulfil the post of prime minister," he says. If that comes to pass it will mark
both the triumph of a new, more subtle brand of right-wing politics in Europe,
and the final demise of the stereotyped image of the Netherlands as a nation of
bland liberal views and easygoing tolerance.

Itinerary Geert Wilders

9am Geert Wilders will arrive at Heathrow, his second visit to Britain since
overturning a ban by the former Home Secretary Jacqui Smith. He declared his
trip in October last year "a victory for free speech"

11am Screening of his film Fitna in a committee room of the House of Lords. The
17-minute film, which has been shown in the US Capitol, presents verses from the
Koran alongside footage of terrorist attacks. The screening has been organised
by Lord Pearson of Rannoch, leader of UKIP, and Baroness Cox, a former
Conservative peer

12.30pm Press conference near Parliament. UKIP organisers are expecting protests

1pm The far-Right group the English Defence League plans a demonstration to
welcome Mr Wilders to Britain. A UKIP source said: "That is what horrifies me
more than anything else. Bring protective clothing."

LOAD-DATE: March 3, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: His film will be shown at the House of Lords
Geert Wilders has attracted support for his warnings of a "tsunami of
Islamification". He also has to face protests and even death threats, and is
rarely seen in public
VALERIE KUYPERS / AFP / GETTY IMAGES

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: TIM


                    Copyright 2010 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              175 of 180 DOCUMENTS


                                  The Express

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Cameron must give the country its identity back;
LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS 176; 25

LENGTH: 157  words


I TOO felt a sense of dread over the forthcoming election after reading Leo
McKinstry's article ("Now we're merely an outpost of the Brussels empire",
February 25) but I back reader Brian Matthews' belief that the Tories will rule
for y ears if they offer us a poll on pulling out of the EU (Letters, February
26).

I have voted Conservative all my life and would like to see David Cameron come
out and give this country what it craves; and that is to pull out of the EU and
give Britain back its identity.

However, I simply cannot see this happening, so what are our choices? UKIP is an
alternative but it would be a wasted vote.

However, it must make a start somewhere if it wants to be a force to be reckoned
with in the future.

Not voting is also a non-starter although I suspect many people will opt for
this measure, thereby handing Gordon Brown another term in office, which means
he can finish off this country completely.

M Hodgson, By e-mail

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                              176 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday

Broadcasters reveal details of leaders' election debates

BYLINE: Andrew Sparrowguardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 1069 words

ABSTRACT

Three live face-to-face debates between Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick
Clegg will take place in mid-evening weekday slots in front of studio audiences
on BBC, ITV and Sky News

FULL TEXT

Broadcasters and the three main political parties have struck a deal that will
pave the way for leadership debates to take place for the first time during a
British election campaign, it was confirmed tonight.

The news quashes speculation that the Tories were having second thoughts about
the events going ahead and it means that the debates are now a certainty.

Three live face-to-face debates between Gordon Brown, David Cameron and Nick
Clegg will take place in mid-evening weekday slots in front of studio audiences
on BBC, ITV and Sky News.

Members of the audience will be able to put questions to the Labour,
Conservative and Liberal Democrat leaders directly and viewers will be invited
to submit their own questions by email in advance of the programmes, said the
three broadcasters in a joint statement.

Each programme will have a pre-determined theme for half of its airtime, with
the remaining time open to questions on any election issue.

Cameron has been calling for debates for some time. In the past prime ministers
have generally been reluctant to debate with opposition leaders and Brown only
agreed to the debates taking place last autumn.

Since then the three parties have been locked in intense talks with the
broadcasters about the format. At one point there was speculation that the
parties would fail to reach an agreement and, before the Tory opinion poll lead
narrowed, some Conservatives argued that Cameron had nothing to gain from
debating with Brown.

But this afternoon it was announced that a 76-point deal has been struck.

The broadcasters drew lots to determine the order of the debates and the
allocation of themes, while representatives of the parties drew lots to
determine the order of speaking. Clegg will open the first debate, Brown the
second, and Cameron the third.

According to a strict set of rules thrashed out in negotiations between the
broadcasters and parties, each leader will make an opening statement on the
programme's theme before taking questions. Each leader will answer all questions
and be given time to react to opponents' answers and make further points of
their own. A period of free debate may follow.

The leaders will have no prior notice of questions and all statements, answers
and rebuttals will be subject to time restrictions - usually one minute, but
with a longer 90-second closing statement at the end of each programme.

The first debate, screened on ITV1 and moderated by Alastair Stewart, will be
filmed in the north-west of England and look at the theme of domestic affairs.

The second debate will be screened on Sky News and moderated by Adam Boulton.
Its themed section will be on international affairs and it will come from the
south-west of England.

The final debate will be screened on BBC1, moderated by David Dimbleby, and will
focus on the theme of economic affairs. The programme will be based in the
Midlands.

The exact dates of the programmes will depend on the length of the campaign, and
will be announced by the broadcasters once the prime minister has formally
called the general election. There will be no commercial breaks during the
programmes.

The broadcasters have agreed to give each leader equal treatment during the
programmes. The primary role of the moderator will not be to press politicians
for answers, but to ensure fairness within the agreed rules.

The broadcasters have jointly appointed the market research company ICM to
recruit an audience with a broad cross-section of views.

A Labour spokeswoman said: "We welcome the conclusion of the talks and relish
the opportunity provided by the debates.

"Our democracy has been badly bruised by the expenses scandal and the British
public are crying out for serious, substantive debate about Britain's future.

"People want detail on policy, not platitudes on posters and these debates will
help us elevate the choice facing the country."

Questions for the leaders' debate will be chosen by an editorial panel of senior
journalists, including the moderator, within each broadcasting company.
Questions may be submitted for consideration up to and including the day of the
live transmission.

A spokesperson for the joint Broadcasting Panel said: "We warmly welcome the
agreement by the party leaders to take part in these innovative programmes.

"We were delighted by the positive atmosphere in all our dealings with the
parties over the last few months, and the agreement we are jointly announcing
today represents a major step forward in the way election campaigns can reach
the entire population."

Each broadcaster will make its own arrangements about separate and additional
debates taking place in Scotland and Wales and the coverage of other parties in
the election.

The BBC announced it will hold separate party leader election debates in
Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland and will now talk to the relevant parties
about the details of these broadcasts.

In addition to these debates, the BBC will offer guaranteed opportunities for
leaders of smaller parties to air their views in response to the debates,
including:

· News at Ten on BBC1 and Newsnight on BBC2 to include contributions from other
parties, including Ukip, the Greens and the British National party immediately
after the BBC debate, with special arrangements for viewers in Scotland, Wales,
and Northern Ireland to hear the views of parties who only stand candidates in
these areas, such as the SNP, Plaid Cymru, DUP and Sinn Féin.

· Other BBC outlets that report on the debate during the evening, as well as the
following morning's Today programme on Radio 4, to include contributions from
the other parties.

· BBC Online, which will stream the prime ministerial debate live, to carry
video clips of the reactions of all the above parties, as well as those in
Northern Ireland.

· Good Morning Scotland, Good Morning Wales and Good Morning Ulster to carry
full reaction to the UK-wide debate, including from those main parties which
only stand candidates in those parts of the UK.

A BBC News spokesman said: "We believe the national debates, and these
additional specific and guaranteed opportunities to air views about the UK-wide
debate, will ensure due impartiality is achieved in line with the BBC's election
guidelines."

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              177 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                             March 2, 2010 Tuesday

Nigel Farage fined for verbal attack on EU president

BYLINE: guardian.co.uk

LENGTH: 529 words

ABSTRACT

Ukip MEP who launched European parliament broadside against Belgian Herman Van
Rompuy refuses to apologise

FULL TEXT

Nigel Farage has been fined 10 days' MEP allowances - about £2,700 - following
his attack on the credentials of the European council president, Herman van
Rompuy, last week.

The Ukip MEP was today summoned to see the European parliament's president,
Jerzy Buzek, who demanded that he apologise to Belgium, its people and its
former prime minister for his remarks.

When Farage refused, Buzek said he was considering sanctions, including possible
suspension from the chamber, against him.

Farage used his Twitter page to declare: "Sentence passed, letter from
parliament. President: Maximum allowable fine 2,980 euros. Free speech is
expensive in Brussels." He said he would appeal against the fine.

"I have been called a great many things in my time - that's politics," he said.

"I am not going to apologise to Mr Van Rompuy, and I am not going to apologise
to the people of Belgium.

"Surely I am entitled to have a dig at a man representing 500 million people,
who is paid more than the US president and who has not been elected by us?

"As for apologising to the Belgian people - look, I'm not going to do that for
what I said about their country, which doesn't have proper political parties."

Asked whether he had been blunt with Buzek during their 15-minute meeting,
Farage said: "No, I was very polite.

"But I did explain that perhaps his definition of democracy and freedom of
speech is different from mine."

Buzek said he defended "absolutely Mr Farage's right to disagree about the
policy or institutions of the union, but not to personally insult our guests in
the European parliament or the country from which they may come".

"His behaviour towards Mr Rompuy was inappropriate, unparliamentary and
insulting to the dignity of the house," he added.

He said that, as a former member of the Polish Solidarity movement, he had
fought for free speech as the "absolute cornerstone" of a democratic society.

However, he added: "With freedom comes responsibility - in this case, to respect
the dignity of others and of our institutions.

""I invited him to apologise, but he declined to do so. I have therefore, as an
expression of the seriousness of the matter, rescinded his right to 10 days'
daily allowance as a member".

The remarks, which upset most MEPs, came during Rompuy's first address to MEPs
after resigning as the leader of Belgium to take the recently-created EU role.

Rompuy was listening to MEPs' response to his speech on the economy when Farage
said: "We were told that when we had a president, we'd see a giant global
political figure, a man who would be the political leader for 500 million
people.

"Well, I'm afraid what we got was you ... the question I want to ask is: who are
you? I'd never heard of you - nobody in Europe had ever heard of you.

"I can speak on behalf of the majority of British people in saying that we don't
know you, we don't want you and the sooner you are put out to grass, the
better."

Afterwards, the Socialist leader in the parliament, Germany's Martin Schulz,
condemned Farage for "trampling on the dignity of the house".

LOAD-DATE: March 2, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2010 Guardian Unlimited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              178 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 2, 2010 Tuesday 11:04 PM GMT

Nigel Farage is fined: other Euro-sceptics beware

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 179 words


When MEPs hooted and jabbered like stricken animals at the President of the
Czech Republic, who happened to oppose the Lisbon Treaty, no action was taken
(see here). When the then Liberal leader, Graham Watson, said that
pro-referendum campaigners reminded him of Russian Communists and German Nazis,
he was roundly applauded. When Martin Schulz, the Socialist leader, said that
Euro-sceptic MEPs made him think of him of Adolf Hitler, the Euro-MPs behind him
nodded sagely (See here. Weirdly, the clip of Shulz's remarks can no longer be
accessed on the EP website.)

By contrast, when Nigel Farage, the leader of UKIP, complained that Herman Van
Rompuy, the new President of Europe had the charisma of a wet rag, he was fined
2,980 euros. Now Nigel's language was boorish, which was a pity, as it detracted
from his main point, viz that no one had elected Van Rompuy.

Still, I'd be interested to know what criteria define his offence as being in a
different category from all the others I have cited. Is it that you can be rude
about Euro-sceptics, but not Euro-integrationists?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              179 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                              March 1, 2010 Monday
                                   Edition 1;
                                National Edition

Was he convincing? Voters with a range of political views give their verdict on
the big speech

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 594 words


CHRIS REGAN 26, from Aldgate, east London Trainee solicitor Voted Lib Dem at
last election I don't consider myself an instinctive Tory voter, so I was a
little dubious about whether Cameron's speech would change my opinions. It
didn't answer a couple of my lingering questions about Conservative associations
in Europe or its policy toward the BBC.

Although I felt that the delivery without notes was a gimmick, Cameron came
across confidently and seemed prime ministerial.

I was also pleased that he acknowledged there are still questions about the
Conservatives. On the strength of this speech I'm certainly willing to listen to
what the Conservatives have to say come election time, but I'm unsure yet
whether I'd actually vote for them.

LISA FORSTER 39, from Newcastle Managing director of marketing firm angelfysh
Traditionally Labour At the start Cameron seemed flaky and too generic. I admire
dynamic ideas and leadership and there didn't seem to be much of that.

I crave the "real change" Cameron promises but I'm unsure I trust him. However,
he seemed quite in-touch. Cameron also made Labour's approaches feel dusty and
clunky and no one will argue with the fact that so much of our country is broken
both socially and economically. I'm fed up with a government that supports the
lazy and penalises the successful.

I've always felt that Labour were more for me, but I'm more likely to vote Tory
now than I was prior to the speech.

TONY BALDWIN 62, from Buckinghamshire Retired accountant. Floating voter,
inclined towards Ukip "Putting the government on a diet" was the most refreshing
line of the speech for me.

After the turmoil created by the expenses scandal it was important to restore
some faith in the electoral system. He was also persuasive in emphasising that a
further five years under Brown would not be a savoury prospect. And his attacks
on Labour's economic record rang true.

I'm probably more likely to vote Tory now because Cameron showed they were
taking the lead on reducing the size of government. But I still don't find
Cameron himself very convincing. He described himself as a salesman: I would not
buy a lot from him.

NATALIE WALL 29, from Pinner, north London Social media coordinator for online
fashion website. Floating voter, traditionally Labour Cameron's passion came
across with his decision to speak without notes, that always garners my respect.
I felt heartened that he wants to make Britain "great"' again but was left
wondering exactly how he'd achieve this.

I was interested to hear his take on eradicating benefits cheats, but would have
liked to have heard more on tackling illegal immigrants.

The apparent air of unity contrasted nicely with Labour's recent "bully-gate"
scandal.

The speech itself was a crowdpleaser, but I felt it lacked substance.
Ultimately, David Cameron would get my vote simply for not being Gordon Brown.

WILLIAM LLOYD 21, Conservative borough councillor in Brentwood, Essex It was a
tough speech. Polls go up and down but he had to show that he knows what he
wants to achieve in power.

While reassuring the wider public, Cameron clearly wanted to fire up the party
activists. He encouraged us to remember what we are campaigning for, as well as
making it clear that if we want to win we can't stop fighting for the next 70
days.

And he gave a few powerful examples of the ways in which our country has broken
down.

For me, the biggest thing was recognising that we need to change our politics.
The last 20 seconds of the speech proved Cameron's genuine passion in wanting to
change things in this country.

LOAD-DATE: March 1, 2010

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: DTL


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                              180 of 180 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       March 1, 2010 Monday 11:10 AM GMT

I hate to say this but Cameron's speech has just won him the election

BYLINE: By James Delingpole

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 392 words


I'll be honest, when I saw the headline this morning that Gordon Brown was on
course to win the next election I felt a small twinge of ecstatic joy. I loathe
Gordon Brown as I loathed Tony Blair. I loathe everything New Labour stands for.
I think in 13 years they have done more damage to Britain in shorter space than
perhaps any government in history. Which speaks volumes for just how little I
think of David Cameron's Conservatives.

I don't trust David Cameron an inch. I believe that - contrary to the rumours
cunningly put about by Tory Central Office - he is instinctively pro-EU; that he
will not have the gumption or indeed the desire to roll back the State because,
au fond, he is himself a believer in Big Government; that he is not a radical in
the Thatcher mould, but rather a complacent Ted Heath Mk II who will preside
over Britain's "managed decline" for four years, be found wanting, end up being
booted out after a decade's faffing around, meaning Britain won't even begin to
receive the rescue package it needs until at least the 2020s.

All that said, his speech at the Tories' Spring Conference in Brighton was a
blinder and it's going to win them the next election. It was full of
inconsistencies: for example, how can you possibly talk about repairing the
deficit while simultaneously boasting that you're going to introduce "a new army
of health visitors"? And I loathed his cantish playing to the authoritarian
gallery, such as in the bit where he fulminated righteously about supermarkets
selling alcohol to underage children. But it was encouraging that he played down
the "Vote Blue go Green" line, having perhaps been counselled by wiser heads
than Greg Clark that the tide of public opinion is rapidly turning on the AGW
issue. And there was just enough Tory meat in there not to leave natural
Conservatives so disgusted that they'll head en masse to UKIP.

Will Cameron learn anything from the fact that the line that got the biggest,
most prolonged clap was the one where he had a go at Regional Development
Agencies (and, by implication, quangoes generally) and said: "The whole lot is
going"?

Frankly I doubt it. But as he almost admitted himself, Cameron's speech was a
bravura exercise in super-salesmanship. From this point, for better or worse,
I'm putting my money not on a hung parliament but on a workable Tory majority.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2010 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
