
                               1 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 31, 2008 Thursday

Patio heaters facing EU ban by EUssels may ban patio heaters

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 269 words


PATIO heaters could be banned by the European Union over fears that they are
contributing to global warming.

Euro-MPs will today vote on energy efficiency proposals to phase out the sale of
the popular gas-burning appliances which are increasingly found outside bars,
cafés and restaurants since the indoor smoking ban.

Fiona Hall, a Liberal Democrat MEP, has led the calls for the ban, which is
expected to be endorsed by the parliament in Brussels.

"Patio heaters are scandalous because they are burning fossil fuels in the open
sky, so producing vast quantities of CO2 with very

little heat benefit,'' she said.

But the proposal has been attacked by publicans, who say bars and pubs need the
heaters for customers driven outside by smoking bans.

The trade has invested pounds 86.5 million in heaters over the past 12 months
and a ban could cost pubs, cafés and restaurants an estimated pounds 250 million
a year in lost business.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "Not content with
devastating the pub trade with the illiberal and ill-informed smoking ban, these
autocratic busybodies now want to make smokers stand in the cold and the rain.

"We are constantly being told that the continental café culture is something to
aspire to.

"But a ban like this will hammer the cafés of Brussels, Stockholm and Copenhagen
just as surely as the pubs of Leeds and Sevenoaks.''

A UN climate expert questioned the usefulness of a ban.

"The overall impact of outdoor heaters on global warming and greenhouse gas
emissions is very minimal,'' said Dr Eric Johnson, of the UN Framework
Convention on Climate Change.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 31, 2008

Michael White's political blog: January 31

LENGTH: 1112 words


Lunchtime, west London:

I couldn't resist telephoning Michael Barnbrook this morning. Does the name ring
a faint bell? He's the retired police inspector who formally complained about
Derek Conway's parliamentary allowances and thus triggered this week's verdict
of the Commons standards and privileges committee.

He was interviewed on radio and TV on day one, then disappeared from view. Why
so? ''I'm a bit of a pariah,'' he told me. At 64, Barnbrook is not a real
political activist but is a passionate anti-European. He volunteered to be
Ukip's candidate against Conway in Old Bexley and Sidcup in 2005, and got 2,015
votes.

But Ukip MPs got into trouble over fraudulent expenses and benefit claims. ''I
couldn't remain a member of the party, so I joined the BNP because it's the only
other party which wants to withdraw from Europe," he said. "I lost my last job
for reporting racism, I have mixed race grandchildren." Barnbrook is,
incidentally, no relation to Richard Barnbrook, the BNP candidate for London
mayor.

You can't judge anyone from a phonecall, but Barnbrook sounds a cheerful fellow.
Over the years he said he had also reported Michael Trend (the last MP to be
ousted for fiddling expenses), David Blunkett and Clive Betts to the police or
parliamentary commissioner - who is always reluctant to go to the police over
errant MPs, he says. ''He's there to protect them.''

My point is a different one. Barnbrook says he's not interested in publicity (''
I didn't go on BBC News 24 because it might look like gloating''), but other
politicians have claimed - and been given - the credit for this expose. Last
year the SNP's Angus McNeil even got an award for reporting the abortive
loans-for-honours affair to Scotland Yard.

But the media, raised on the two-party model of politics, isn't very comfortable
with small parties of either left or right at a time when major party loyalties
have been unravelling for years. The Greens, for instance, are permanently
frustrated by their inability to get attention to match their voting strength in
some places.

Admittedly, they're not very good at the mechanics of politics, all that debate
about ''principal spokesman'' - not leaders, for instance. Ukip messed up its
own chances at some sort of breakthrough at Tory expense during the Kilroy-Silk
fiasco in 2004 and afterwards. The BNP and the sectarian left often give the
impression of being more interested in internal feuds, and purges too.

But many of their voters are just normal, frustrated people who don't feel
heard, aren't they? Former Inspector Barnbrook may well be one of them.

NOWADAYS Westminster is awash with thinktanks, large and small, beavering away
at policy formation. A new one every month. But the Institute of Economic
Affairs (IEA), which fairly claims to be the oldest free-market think tank in
Britain, was founded in 1955, 20 years before Sir Keith Joseph and Margaret
Thatcher set up the Centre for Policies Studies (CPS) round the corner.

I rarely get invited there, though it must be 30 years since the late Arthur
Seldon - father of headmaster and prolific political biographer Anthony - sent
me a letter and pamphlet explaining why Britain's free blood donor scheme wasn't
a good idea.

But last night the Guardian's economics guru, Larry Elliott, and I were both in
Lord North St SW1 as IEA guests at a genial dinner to discuss - guess what - the
limits of state action. Alas, I left behind my notes, but it was good fun. I
love theory and theoreticians - left, right and centre - though get impatient
when they fail to notice that the brilliant theoretical machine they have
constructed has just crashed during speed trials.

With all these clever people talking fast and above my head I did register one
useful way of looking at things. A pair of academics (sorry, but I lost their
names too) were warning about the pernicious effect of state action on the
creation of social capital as well as the economic variety.

''Picking winners'' doesn't work when it comes to funding voluntary bodies -
theatres, football clubs, housing associations etc - we were assured, though
there was persistent tension around the table between the free market crowd and
the social conservatives who see society in more organic terms. They're the ones
who can see the case for legitimate and necessary state functions - fostering
patriotism or anti-smoking for the common good.

''Bonding relationships", the myriad links we form through voluntary
association, friends and family are important. But so are the bridging
relationships we form with people we don't know but are able to trust because
the rules of society - laws and the rest - allow us to do so.

There's always plenty to agree/disagree with round a dinner table. But the
topical point which intrigued me was the suggestion that in some dysfunctional
societies the bonding relationships become more important than the bridging
ones, with bad results. Dominant loyalty to family and tribe is causing much of
Kenya's ugly unrest, though there are plenty of other examples, not confined to
Africa or Afghanistan. Are street gangs in our own big cities a manifestation of
dysfunction?

I ALWAYS feel sorry for people in the Strangers Gallery at Wesminster when MPs
laugh at an in-joke which outsiders watching from the public gallery (behind
glass these days) can't be expected to get. It happened yesterday when the
gallery contained 20 soldiers in uniform.

They were not neglected since several MPs, including Nick Clegg, raised
practical problems about army housing, equipment and recruitment. It was when
the Lib Dems interim leader, Dr Vince Cable, rose to ask a question that the
troopers looked perplexed. MPs on all sides jeered ironically and cried ''More,
more'' - just to remind Clegg how good a stand-in Dr Vince had been. Merely
cheerful malice.

WE WERE talking about politicians and drink the other day, a propos of Channel
4's Dispatches' recent claim that Ken Livingstone sometimes tippled Scotch
before lunch. Two of my colleagues promptly recalled seeing Margaret Thatcher
drinking early in the day towards the end, not - as I had always understood -
only at night. A tumbler full of watered Scotch said one. Six gin and tonics (
Denis Thatcher's drink of choice) at a private occasion, probably a leaving
party for a staffer, probably on a Friday, insisted the other - to my great
surprise. No wonder Jim Callaghan gave up the drink entirely when he entered No
10.

PERSISTENT rumour has it that Gordon Brown was poised to bring Charles Clarke
back into his cabinet, despite all the rude things Clarke has repeatedly said
about him. It just didn't work out this time. We'll just have to see.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               3 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                January 31, 2008

Tory MEP causes scandal with 'Hitler' slur

LENGTH: 331 words



HIGHLIGHT: Conservative MEP is labelled a 'right-wing extremist' after drawing
parallels between actions of Parliament's German president and Hitler


A Conservative MEP has caused uproar in the European Parliament by drawing
parallels between the actions of its German president and Adolf Hitler.

The comments by Daniel Hannan, the Conservative MEP for South East England, came
as the president, Hans-Gert Poettering, was about to be given extra powers to
curb disruptions in the chamber.

Complaining about what he saw as the stifling of free expression, Hannan told
the chamber that only his respect for Poettering prevented him from comparing
the moves with the Nazi law of 1933 which suspended parts of the German
constitution and gave Hitler total power.

The comparison was met with outrage from members across the political spectrum.
Joseph Daul, leader of the centre-right EPP group to which Tory MEPs are
affiliated, immediately disassociated his group from the remarks and threatened
to expel Hannan.

Martin Schulz, the German Socialist leader in the European Parliament, said: "It
was an insult to Hans-Gert Poettering and to the whole European Parliament.

"The reaction of Joseph Daul showed he is a very honest man. People like Hannan
are not only not speaking on behalf of conservatives in Europe - they have no
home in the European Parliament. They are entirely isolated.

"[Conservative leader] David Cameron should reflect on whether such people so
close to right-wing extremists have a place in his Party."

Gary Titley, leader of the British Labour MEPs, said: "By comparing the ruling
of the president of the European Parliament with the law that gave unlimited
power to Hitler, in Holocaust week, Hannan is dishonouring memories of the
victims of terror of the Nazi regime."

The move to tighten the parliament's procedural rules followed repeated
disruption of the House by UK Independence Party MEPs and some Conservatives,
who called for roll-call votes on every issue.

After Hannan's outburst, MEPs voted to give the European President the right to
overrule these tactics, viewed as designed to disrupt the business of the House.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               4 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           January 30, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Shamed Tory cast out over payments to sons

BYLINE: Andrew Grice Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 697 words


The political career of Derek Conway, the senior Tory MP accused of overpaying
two sons he employed as Commons researchers, is in ruins after David Cameron
withdrew the party whip from him.

Mr Cameron signalled that Mr Conway would not be allowed back into the fold,
which means he will not be able to be a Tory candidate at the next general
election. The Tory leader said Mr Conway had "an awful lot of road to make up"
to regain the whip.

He has been warned by party whips that he should not regard his punishment as
temporary. Amid Tory embarrassment at Westminster, Mr Cameron had to make a
swift U-turn a day after he judged that a 10-day suspension from the Commons was
a sufficient penalty for the MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup. He came under
pressure to discipline Mr Conway after Labour seized on the revelation that he
paid his eldest son Henry £10,000 as a part-time research assistant for an
18-hour week while he was at university. The 10-day suspension was a punishment
for overpaying his youngest son, Freddie, who received £11,173 a year for a
17-hour week while he too was a student.

A Labour MP lodged a formal complaint with the Parliamentary Standards
Commissioner, who ruled on Monday that he had overpaid Freddie, over his
employment of Henry.

Mr Conway also faces the possibility of a police investigation. Duncan
Borrowman, the Liberal Democrat candidate in his constituency, has written to
Scotland Yard asking for an inquiry. But some MPs believe the police may not
have the power to intervene in what is a parliamentary matter.

The Tory leader acted after Patrick McLoughlin, the Opposition chief whip,
quizzed Mr Conway about his second son's role and was not satisfied with the
explanation he was given.

The MP, who has apologised, said that he had "no quarrel" with Mr Cameron's
punishment, describing it as "understandable, if not inevitable".

But friends said that he was the victim of a "witch-hunt". Roger Gale, a Tory
backbencher, said he was "a good constituency MP and an honourable man", adding,
"a man has been told he's guilty until he can prove his innocence."

Mr Cameron said: "Having asked the chief whip to speak again to Mr Conway and
having personally reflected overnight, I have decided to withdraw the
Conservative whip from Mr Conway." The Tories insisted Mr Cameron had acted more
decisively than Gordon Brown, who was accused of dithering before Peter Hain
resigned from the Cabinet over late declarations of £103,000 of donations to his
deputy leadership campaign.

But Labour MPs were relieved that the behaviour of a Conservative MP had brought
some relief from the spate of funding scandals engulfing their own party. The
Tories launched a counterstrike against John Mann, the Labour MP who asked the
commissioner to investigate Mr Conway's payments to his second son. They issued
a complaint against him for not disclosing to the Electoral Commission support
he receives from the GMB union which he had listed in the MPs' register of
interests.

Mr Mann said: "24 hours and a few bad headlines later, David Cameron has
flip-flopped and decided to ditch Derek Conway after all. He has not sacked
Derek Conway on a point of principle, but only because he has become a PR
problem."

Stuart Wheeler, a Tory donor, described the allegations against Mr Conway as
giving a "bad impression of politics".

Leading article, page 30

'A likeable arch-plotter'

Derek Conway had reason to think he might cap his political career by becoming
Speaker of the Commons. His hopes were scuppered when his UK Independence Party
election opponent lodged a formal complaint after newspaper revelations that he
employed his youngest son as a Commons researcher while he was still at
university. He would probably have become Tory chief whip if his friend David
Davis had beaten David Cameron for the party leadership. As a government whip,
he helped John Major soldier on as Prime Minister even when he lost his Commons
majority. He is seen by colleagues as a likeable arch-plotter. Brought up on
Tyneside, he entered parliament in 1983 as MP for Shrewsbury and Atcham but lost
his seat in 1997. He returned as Sir Edward Heath's successor in Old Bexley and
Sidcup in 2001.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday

SNOUTS IN THE TROUGH (contd.);
EXCLUSIVE: As Tory MP faces ban after paying student son £40,000 for doing
nothing, the Mail reveals he paid a second son £32,000 Tory MP and a £40,000
payout to his 'invisible' son

BYLINE: Jane Merrick

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 723 words


A SENIOR Tory MP who was forced to apologise yesterday after paying his son
£40,000 of taxpayers' money in expenses faces a second sleaze inquiry, the Daily
Mail can reveal.

Derek Conway already faces suspension from the Commons for handing the cash to
his 22-year-old son Freddie.

It was claimed to be payment for work as a parliamentary assistant, when in fact
he was a fulltime university student hundreds of miles away Turn to Page 4 What
is it about our political class that makes them believe they are above the laws
they make? COMMENT: PAGE 12 in Newcastle upon Tyne. Mr Conway, 54, could be
banned from the chamber for ten days and even be investigated by police after an
official inquiry found the payments were a 'serious diversion of public funds'.

But according to leaked documents seen by the Mail, Mr Conway's elder son,
Henry, was also paid out of state funds when he too was an undergraduate.

They show that Henry, 25, received more than £32,000 in parliamentary allowances
and bonuses between July 2001 and October 2004.

The elder son's details had not come to light because no official complaint had
been made. But MPs looking at Mr Conway's financial affairs could start a fresh
inquiry if a member of the public complains. An insider said there was 'no
evidence' that Henry had done enough parliamentary work to justify receiving an
allowance. Another said: 'Derek Conway has been using taxpayers' money to put
his sons through university, effectively supporting the family. He has treated
staffing allowances like a family heirloom.' The disclosure will fuel calls for
MPs to face stricter rules on how they spend taxpayers'- cash. It shines an
uncomfortable spotlight on the way many MPs pay family members as secretaries or
assistants from public funds - Mr Conway also pays his wife, Colette, £3,271 a
month as a registered parliamentary assistant.

Backbencher Mr Conway, MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, is one of the
longest-serving Tory MPs. He has been in the Commons since 1983 and in recent
months has been talked of as a future Speaker. He has previously been criticised
for claiming thousands of pounds in travel and second-home expenses. Son Freddie
celebrated his 21st birthday on the Commons terrace. His brother Henry, like him
an Old Harrovian, is now a fashion writer who was pictured leaving a nightclub
with actress and singer Martine McCutcheon. He organises Thursday nights at the
London nightclub Mahiki, is a regular at gay clubs frequented by Elton John and
David Furnish, and once described himself as 'blond, bouncy and one for the
boys'.

In its report into the payments to Freddie, the Commons Standards and Privileges
Committee ordered his father, a former government whip, to repay up to £13,161.
Although Freddie was paid more than £40,000 during his three-year 'employment',
the committee said he was 'all but invisible' throughout. Giving a personal
statement to the Commons yesterday, Mr Conway said he fully accepted the
criticisms made by the committee. 'I unreservedly apologise to the House for my
administrative shortcomings and the misjudgments I made.' MPs will vote within
days on whether he should be suspended. But the revelation over Henry's pay
could force him to make another Commons statement, although he insisted last
night that this would not happen. The disclosures are a blow to David Cameron's
attempts to distance the Conservative Party from Labour over sleaze. A spokesman
for the Tory leader said: 'Derek Conway has apologised fully on the floor of the
House.

The Whip will not be withdrawn. The proper punishment has been administered.'
But sources made clear that Mr Cameron would have acted swiftly if Mr Conway had
been a frontbencher. 'He would have been fired, there's no doubt about that. And
if something more serious comes up things could be different.' Sir Alistair
Graham, former chairman of the standards committee, told Radio 4: 'The case
shows a blatant disregard of what is public money, even if MPs vote for it
themselves.' The committee's findings were based on an investigation by former
Parliamentary Commissioner for Standards Sir Philip Mawer. This followed a
complaint from Michael Barnbrook, a retired policeman who stood against Mr
Conway as a candidate for the UK Independence Party, and is now a member of the
British National Party. Comment - Page 12

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Blond and bouncy': Henry Conway with Martine McCutcheon

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday

MP faces suspension over payments to son: Watchdog astonished by failure to keep
records: Committee recommends 10-day ban from Commons

BYLINE: Will Woodward, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 517 words


A senior Conservative MP is likely to be suspended from parliament after the
standards watchdog found he misused public funds by employing his son as a
research assistant.

Derek Conway paid his son Frederick £45,163, including £10,066 in bonuses, for a
contracted 17 hours a week between September 2004, when he began an
undergraduate degree at Newcastle University, and August 2007. The MP for Old
Bexley and Sidcup will come under further pressure today after it emerged last
night that another son, Henry, 25, had previously been employed in his office.

According to the Daily Mail, Henry was paid more than £32,000 in parliamentary
allowances and bonuses when an undergraduate between 2001 and 2004.

These second allegations have not been investigated by the Commons standards and
privileges committee, as no official complaint has been made, but potentially
would form the basis of a wider inquiry.

The committee of senior backbenchers from both sides of the House urged Conway's
suspension for 10 days. They ruled the salary was excessive and thought it
"unlikely" Frederick, despite his father's insistence to the contrary, had
carried out work he was contracted to do.

"FC (Frederick Conway) seems to have been all but invisible during the period of
his employment," the committee said. "He had little or no contact with his
father's office, either in the House or the constituency. No record exists of
the work that he is supposed to have carried out, or the hours kept. The only
evidence available to us of work carried out was that provided by FC and his
family. This arrangement was, at the least, an improper use of parliamentary
allowances: at worst, it was a serious diversion of public funds. Our view is
that the reality may well be somewhere between the two."

Conway has employed his wife Colette as his parliamentary assistant since 1983.

The MPs recommended Conway pay back £9,962.97 in salary and bonuses, or
£13,161.05 if the Commons was unable to reclaim tax and insurance."We are of the
view Mr Conway misused the staffing allowance," they said. "He should have
exercised his judgment more carefully."

Conway was a whip in the Tory administration ending in 1997, and was the first
Tory MP to declare publicly that the party's former leader, Iain Duncan Smith,
should quit.

In a personal statement, he said: "I unreservedly apologise to the House for my
administrative shortcomings and the misjudgments I made."

MPs will vote on suspension this week. Sir Philip Mawer, outgoing parliamentary
commissioner for standards, began an investigation after a complaint from
Michael Barnbrook, who stood against Conway as a Ukip candidate in 2005, and is
now a member of the BNP, following a report in the Sunday Times last May.

Conway told Mawer his son had carried out research, administration and IT tasks,
mainly at the family's Westminster flat, working 14 hours a week in term-time
and 20 hours in holidays. "Mr Conway acknowledged that it would have been better
if he had kept a note of his son's schedule but had thought that there was no
need to do so," Mawer reported.

guardian.co.uk/politics >=

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 29, 2008 Tuesday

Tory MP faces suspension over £45,000 payments to his son: Watchdog astonished
by failure to keep records: Committee recommends 10-day ban from Commons

BYLINE: Will Woodward, Chief political correspondent

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 576 words


A senior Conservative MP is likely to be suspended from parliament after the
standards watchdog found he had misused public funds by employing his son as a
research assistant.

Derek Conway paid his son Frederick £45,163, including £10,066 in bonuses, for a
contracted 17 hours a week work between September 2004, when he began an
undergraduate degree at Newcastle University, and August 2007.

The standards and privileges committee, made up of senior backbenchers from both
sides of the house, urged Conway's suspension from the Commons for 10 days. The
MPs ruled that the salary was excessive and thought it "unlikely" that Frederick
Conway, despite his father's insistence to the contrary, had carried out work he
was contracted to do. "We note that FC (Frederick Conway) seems to have been all
but invisible during the period of his employment," the committee said.

"He had little or no contact with his father's office, either in the house or
the constituency. No record exists of the work that he is supposed to have
carried out, or the hours kept. The only evidence available to us of work
carried out was that provided by FC and his family. This arrangement was, at the
least, an improper use of parliamentary allowances: at worst, it was a serious
diversion of public funds. Our view is that the reality may well be somewhere
between the two." Conway has employed his wife, Colette, as his parliamentary
assistant since 1983.

The committee said it was astonished there was "no evidence, independent or
otherwise, of any aspect of FC's work for his father". It recommended Conway pay
back at least £9,962.97 in salary and bonuses, or £13,161.05 if the Commons was
unable to reclaim tax and insurance.

"We are of the view that Mr Conway misused the staffing allowance," the com
mittee said. "He should have exercised his judgment more carefully, particularly
as a family member was involved, as he could be seen as having a clear personal
motivation for paying his son over-generously. He also seemed to be oblivious to
the broader reputational risks to the house of any perception of personal
benefit to his family."

Conway, MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, was a government whip in last Tory
administration. He was the first MP to declare publicly that former Conservative
leader Iain Duncan Smith should quit.

In a brief personal statement to the Commons, he said: "I unreservedly apologise
to the house for my administrative shortcomings and the misjudgments I made. I
have let my family down very badly indeed and no judgment from any quarter could
be more harsh than that which I apply to myself." MPs will vote on whether to
accept the committee's recommendation this week.

The committee was responding to a report from Sir Philip Mawer, the outgoing
parliamentary commissioner for standards. He began an investigation after a
complaint from Michael Barnbrook, who stood against Conway as a candidate for
the UK Independence party in 2005, and is now a member of the BNP. The complaint
followed a story in the Sunday Times last May.

Conway told Mawer his son had carried out research, administration and IT tasks,
mainly at the family's Westminster flat. He did not work set hours but worked
about 14 hours a week in term-time and 20 hours a week during the holidays. "Mr
Conway acknowledged that it would have been better if he had kept a note of his
son's schedule but had thought that there was no need to do so," Mawer reported.

guardian.co.uk/politics >=

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                January 27, 2008

Comment & Debate: The dark spectre haunting West Sussex: Once the far right was
confined to the inner cities.Now they turn up in the most surprising places

BYLINE: Nick Cohen

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 996 words


Nothing happens in Upper Beeding, David Coldwell, editor of the village
newsletter, used to complain. The 'mooted bus shelter in the high street' had
been delayed by the planning process, along with the refurbishment of the
village playground. As for his proposal to put up signs pointing visitors to the
shops in Hyde Square, West Sussex County Council was so shocked by their
radicalism it threw them out.

Until now, the most newsworthy event was the annual boat race in which
well-lubricated contestants paddled down the River Adur to Shoreham-by-Sea in
adapted baths, while being pelted from the banks with flour bombs, eggs and
anything else that came to hand. Although it occasionally got out of hand, the
jolly competition only reinforced Upper Beeding's charming image.

'The wheels turn slowly, but they do turn!' Coldwell cried as he explained the
sluggish pace of progress, but I wonder if he believed it. Upper Beeding seemed
to fit a sentimental ideal of an English village where nothing changes.

Supplies of charm ran out just before Christmas when 23 villagers marched from
the pub to the parish buildings to demand that a member of a neo-fascist party
be put on the council.

'I never realised the speed with which neighbours can turn,' Simon Birnstingl, a
gardener who sits on the council, told me. 'One minute, we were discussing how
to get the swings fixed, the next a crowd burst in calling for me to be barred
from the meeting. I've learnt to toughen up. I look at politicians when they're
in trouble and feel sympathy now. Gordon Brown must go through the struggle I'm
going through every day, so I am determined to see it through.'

However absurd it sounds to talk about an anti-fascist struggle in Upper
Beeding, that is what he's facing.

It began when he was talking to his wife about villagers who wanted to be
co-opted into empty seats on the parish council. She heard the name Donna Bailey
and thought something was wrong. She checked and found that Bailey had run twice
for the British National Party in district elections.

Birnstingl assumed that once he told the rest of the council their task was to
improve Upper Beeding, not divide it on racial lines, that would be the end of
Bailey. Not so or, rather, not entirely. After her friends heard what Birnstingl
was saying, they stormed into the meeting. Undeterred, the council twice voted
not to co-opt Bailey as a member, but only by a majority of one on both
occasions.

She has now forced a byelection on 7 February and although two candidates are
standing against her, she may have many supporters in the village. Townies will
say that they've always known that the countryside is full of dangerous
fanatics. But it's clear that not all Bailey's friends think they are fanatics.
They simply can't see what is wrong with a member of BNP participating in
village life.

Bailey put her case best when I tracked her down. She had helped raise funds for
the local school for four years, she said. When the Round Table decided to stop
supporting the Bath Tub Race because of the ubiquitous worries about health and
safety legislation, she intervened to save it. The parish council didn't make
political decisions, but dealt with street lights and playgrounds. Why shouldn't
she be a member?

Many in Upper Beeding agree that being a member of the BNP is like being a
member of the Liberal Democrats, a choice that has no effect on personal
standing or moral worth. If she's a help at the school, her politics don't
matter.

The same view can be found across the country, although how deeply it is held is
impossible to determine. As I said a few weeks ago, the notion that the mass of
people are racists, programmed by our imperial past to despise outsiders, has
been shattered by the population movements of the past decade. The largest wave
of immigration in British history wasn't accompanied by riots, just grumbles.

But there has been a small but palpable electoral impact. Sean Fear of the
politicalbetting.com website says that the BNP won an average 14.4 per cent of
the vote in the 38 council byelections it fought between May and November and
polled higher than 20 per cent in 10. This was a far better performance than the
National Front managed in the Seventies and way above the average vote the
Greens or Ukip win today. Like most other analysts, he expects that propor
tional representation will bring the BNP seats on the London Assembly in May.

The far right is as crippled by sectarian hatreds as the far left. The
backstabbing of its leaders and rank incompetence of its councillors would make
all but the most committed neo-Nazi despair. Nevertheless, significant
minorities are prepared to vote BNP, even in districts with few or no
immigrants. There are those, like Donna Bailey's neighbours, who think there's
nothing wrong with being a BNP activist.

Gerry Gable, of the anti-fascist magazine Searchlight , told me theirs was a
hard attitude to confront. The press and BNP rivals like to seize on the
criminal convictions of BNP leaders or chronicle its splits and purges. Less
easy to document is what happens when far right views become normal in a pub or
social club. Are there more racial attacks by whites and blacks and Asians? Do
blacks and Asians attack whites? No one can say for sure.

In Upper Beeding, Donna Bailey's candidature is being opposed by Joyce Shaw, a
former stalwart of the parish council, who's come out of retirement, and Becki
Davoudi, who has an Iranian father, and, like the Asian family who have revived
the village shop, has good reason to oppose the far right. What they're fighting
is nothing as concrete as a political programme or the certainty of violence,
but something vaguer: a chilling of the atmosphere, a potential for disgrace.

'When I take my children to school, there are people who used to smile and say
"hello", who now give me hostile looks,' said Simon Birnstingl. 'They don't
realise that we're trying to stop this village falling into disrepute.'


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Dave's Conservatives, by Royal appointment;
Queen's nephew criticised for defying convention to raise money for Tories

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan and Katy Taylor-Richards

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 639  words


A SENIOR member of the Royal Family has defied centuries of convention by
helping to raise funds for the Conservative Party.

Viscount Linley, the Queen's nephew, is listed as a member of the committee
behind the Tories' biggest annual money-spinner, the Black and White Ball.

With a table booking costing up to GBP 35,000, only the elite can afford to
attend but the event still sold out without being advertised.

Millionaire businessmen, Michel-in-star chefs, models and television presenters
will rub shoulders with David and Samantha Cameron at next month's ball, which
is expected to raise an estimated GBP 500,000 for the party.

With political donations under the spotlight and cross-party negotiations on
funding deadlocked, the Conservatives can usually rely on events such as the
Black and White Ball as a controversy-free way of raising cash.

But the presence of Viscount Linley, son of the late Princess Margaret and
Anthony ArmstrongJones, and his wife Serena on the fundraising committee has
caused concern among Labour MPs.

Chris Bryant, appointed by Prime Minister Gordon Brown to draw up Labour policy
on the constitution, said members of the Royal Family should not be dragged into
politics, even if they did not get taxpayers' cash through the Civil List.

He said: "I am sure the Tories would love to think they are there by Royal
appointment but they should not undermine the Royal Family by dragging them into
party politics.

"For their part the Royal Family should steer clear of political fundraising."
Ian Davidson, Glasgow South West MP, sits on the Public Accounts Committee which
recently investigated how taxpayers' money was being used to support the Royal
Family.

He said: "It certainly sets a precedent for a member of the Royal Family to be
involved in party politics. No doubt we could very soon expect to see the Duke
of Edinburgh coming out in favour of the UK Independence Party and Prince
Charles becoming a candidate for the Flat Earth Society." Viscount Linley is
13th in line to the throne and chairman of the British arm of the auction house
Christie's. He own and runs a highquality furniture business.

Royal author Brian Hoey said he had never heard of a member of the Royal Family
being directly engaged in party fundraising.

"I would imagine he would have cleared it with someone to make sure he did not
embarrass the Royal Family, " he said.

"He is a very bright man and goes out of his way to make sure he does nothing to
embarrass anyone, so I would have thought he would have sought advice. However,
he does not undertake public duties on behalf of the Royal Family. He is an
independent businessman and an elector, so in that sense he is free to do as he
likes." Viscount Linley's spokeswoman was unavailable for comment.

A Conservative Party spokesman conceded that his involvement was "unusual" but
he added: "The ball is a fundraising occasion for the party but is not actually
run by the party." The Black and White Ball, held in a giant marquee in a London
park, is organised by designer Anya Hindmarch.

Individual tickets start at GBP 450 each. Donor tickets, which will get buyers
listed in the programme, cost GBP 750 and benefactor tickets, which guarantee
"priority seating", sell for GBP 1,000.

Tables of 10, with "VIP priority seating" and an advert in the programme, run to
GBP 35,000.

The list of those expected to attend is made up of the sort of high-flyers who
attached themselves to Tony Blair's Labour Party in the Nineties. It includes
the X Factor presenter Sharon Osbourne, fashion guru Trinny Woodall and Zac
Goldsmith, the environmental campaigner.

A Conservative Party spokesman said: "People are enthusiastic about our message.
Until Labour is prepared to have a serious debate about party funding that does
not exclude trade unions, the party needs to go out and raise funds."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PARTY PEOPLE: Viscount Linley and his wife Lady Serena
A-LISTERS: From left, David and Samantha Cameron, X Factor's Sharon Osbourne and
event organiser Anya Hindmarch are among the big names who will be at the ball

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Dave's Conservatives, by Royal appointment;
Queen's nephew criticised for defying convention to raise money for Tories

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan and Katy Taylor-Richards

SECTION: NEWS; 7

LENGTH: 639  words


A SENIOR member of the Royal Family has defied centuries of convention by
helping to raise funds for the Conservative Party.

Viscount Linley, the Queen's nephew, is listed as a member of the committee
behind the Tories' biggest annual money-spinner, the Black and White Ball.

With a table booking costing up to GBP 35,000, only the elite can afford to
attend but the event still sold out without being advertised.

Millionaire businessmen, Michel-in-star chefs, models and television presenters
will rub shoulders with David and Samantha Cameron at next month's ball, which
is expected to raise an estimated GBP 500,000 for the party.

With political donations under the spotlight and cross-party negotiations on
funding deadlocked, the Conservatives can usually rely on events such as the
Black and White Ball as a controversy-free way of raising cash.

But the presence of Viscount Linley, son of the late Princess Margaret and
Anthony ArmstrongJones, and his wife Serena on the fundraising committee has
caused concern among Labour MPs.

Chris Bryant, appointed by Prime Minister Gordon Brown to draw up Labour policy
on the constitution, said members of the Royal Family should not be dragged into
politics, even if they did not get taxpayers' cash through the Civil List.

He said: "I am sure the Tories would love to think they are there by Royal
appointment but they should not undermine the Royal Family by dragging them into
party politics.

"For their part the Royal Family should steer clear of political fundraising."
Ian Davidson, Glasgow South West MP, sits on the Public Accounts Committee which
recently investigated how taxpayers' money was being used to support the Royal
Family.

He said: "It certainly sets a precedent for a member of the Royal Family to be
involved in party politics. No doubt we could very soon expect to see the Duke
of Edinburgh coming out in favour of the UK Independence Party and Prince
Charles becoming a candidate for the Flat Earth Society." Viscount Linley is
13th in line to the throne and chairman of the British arm of the auction house
Christie's. He own and runs a highquality furniture business.

Royal author Brian Hoey said he had never heard of a member of the Royal Family
being directly engaged in party fundraising.

"I would imagine he would have cleared it with someone to make sure he did not
embarrass the Royal Family, " he said.

"He is a very bright man and goes out of his way to make sure he does nothing to
embarrass anyone, so I would have thought he would have sought advice. However,
he does not undertake public duties on behalf of the Royal Family. He is an
independent businessman and an elector, so in that sense he is free to do as he
likes." Viscount Linley's spokeswoman was unavailable for comment.

A Conservative Party spokesman conceded that his involvement was "unusual" but
he added: "The ball is a fundraising occasion for the party but is not actually
run by the party." The Black and White Ball, held in a giant marquee in a London
park, is organised by designer Anya Hindmarch.

Individual tickets start at GBP 450 each. Donor tickets, which will get buyers
listed in the programme, cost GBP 750 and benefactor tickets, which guarantee
"priority seating", sell for GBP 1,000.

Tables of 10, with "VIP priority seating" and an advert in the programme, run to
GBP 35,000.

The list of those expected to attend is made up of the sort of high-flyers who
attached themselves to Tony Blair's Labour Party in the Nineties. It includes
the X Factor presenter Sharon Osbourne, fashion guru Trinny Woodall and Zac
Goldsmith, the environmental campaigner.

A Conservative Party spokesman said: "People are enthusiastic about our message.
Until Labour is prepared to have a serious debate about party funding that does
not exclude trade unions, the party needs to go out and raise funds."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: PARTY PEOPLE: Viscount Linley and his wife Lady Serena
A-LISTERS: From left, David and Samantha Cameron, X Factor's Sharon Osbourne and
event organiser Anya Hindmarch are among the big names who will be at the ball

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Royal helps raise fund for Tory Party

SECTION: NEWS; 41

LENGTH: 236  words


A SENIOR member of the Royal Family has defied centuries of convention by
helping raise funds for the Conservative Party.

The Queen's nephew Viscount David Linley is listed on the committee behind the
Tories' annual money-spinner, the Black and White ball.

Tables for next month's A-list event - costing up to GBP 35,000 each - sold out
without being advertised.

The ball is expected to raise an estimated GBP 500,000 for the Tories. But the
presence of Viscount Linley, the eldest son of the late Princess Margaret and
Anthony Armstrong-Jones, and his wife, Serena, on the fund-raising committee has
caused concern among Labour MPs.

Ian Davidson, MP for Glasgow South West, said: "It certainly sets a precedent
for a member of the Royal Family to be involved in party politics.

No doubt we could very soon expect to see the Duke of Edinburgh coming out in
favour of UKiP and Prince Charles becoming a candidate for the Flat Earth
Society." Conservative leader David Cameron joked at last year's Black and White
ball: "This party gets bigger every year. If it gets any bigger we'll have to
hold it in an EU grain store - I can't think of anywhere else we could fit
everyone in."

A Tory spokesman said: "Times have changed and people are enthusiastic about our
message. Until Labour is prepared to have a serious debate about party funding
that does not exclude trade union funding the party needs to go out and
fund-raise."

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMMITTEE: Viscount David Linley and wife Serena

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            January 27, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Royal helps raise fund for Tory Party

SECTION: NEWS; 41

LENGTH: 236  words


A SENIOR member of the Royal Family has defied centuries of convention by
helping raise funds for the Conservative Party.

The Queen's nephew Viscount David Linley is listed on the committee behind the
Tories' annual money-spinner, the Black and White ball.

Tables for next month's A-list event - costing up to GBP 35,000 each - sold out
without being advertised.

The ball is expected to raise an estimated GBP 500,000 for the Tories. But the
presence of Viscount Linley, the eldest son of the late Princess Margaret and
Anthony Armstrong-Jones, and his wife, Serena, on the fund-raising committee has
caused concern among Labour MPs.

Ian Davidson, MP for Glasgow South West, said: "It certainly sets a precedent
for a member of the Royal Family to be involved in party politics.

No doubt we could very soon expect to see the Duke of Edinburgh coming out in
favour of UKiP and Prince Charles becoming a candidate for the Flat Earth
Society." Conservative leader David Cameron joked at last year's Black and White
ball: "This party gets bigger every year. If it gets any bigger we'll have to
hold it in an EU grain store - I can't think of anywhere else we could fit
everyone in."

A Tory spokesman said: "Times have changed and people are enthusiastic about our
message. Until Labour is prepared to have a serious debate about party funding
that does not exclude trade union funding the party needs to go out and
fund-raise."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: COMMITTEE: Viscount David Linley and wife Serena

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday

Parties miss legal deadline on gifts donations

BYLINE: Robert Winnett

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 284 words


THE Labour Party has repeatedly failed to declare donations totalling more than
pounds 2.8 million to electoral regulators within the legal time limit, it
emerged last night.

Political parties must inform the Electoral Commission within 30 days of
receiving donations and the watchdog has warned parties that failing to meet the
deadline is "unacceptable''.

An analysis of Labour returns conducted by the Press Association revealed that
the party has missed the deadline repeatedly since 2001.

Peter Hain, who resigned from the Cabinet on Thursday after failing to declare
donations on time, is now the subject of a police investigation.

He only made a declaration after being "reminded'' by a donor that the necessary
disclosures had not been made.

Labour is the worst of the major parties for filing late donations.

The Conservatives were late with donations totalling pounds 980,000 and the
Liberal Democrats pounds 70,250.

The commission, which has the power to fine parties for missing the deadline,
first warned Labour in November 2002 for failing to comply with the law.

The disclosures cast renewed doubt over the effectiveness of the watchdog which
has faced accusations that it is a toothless regulator.

It has not fined any of the major parties for breaking the rules but has
censured smaller parties, including the UK Independence Party, Respect and the
Greens.

The parties insist that the late filings are a result of poor administration,
often by local constituency associations, and are not an attempt to cover up
financial backers.

However, independent reviews of the system have called for the commission to be
given greater powers to investigate alleged breaches of the law and clamp down
on parties.

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 26, 2008 Saturday

Referendum revolt reaches Guernsey

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 158 words


THE revolt over Gordon Brown's refusal to grant a referendum on the EU Reform
Treaty has spread to the Channel Islands.

Referendums across Guernsey have recorded 95 per cent support for a public vote
on the treaty although turnout stood at 17 per cent.

Similar ballots are expected in Jersey after politicians from both islands held
a meeting in Guernsey. Officials from the Isle of Man also attended.

In a letter to The Daily Telegraph, deputies from the islands wrote: "We
consider it of vital importance that our people are fully informed about the
implications of any constitutional changes that may arise from this treaty.''

The Channel Islands are outside the EU, but diktats from Brussels have affected
areas such as fishing.

Tom Wise, an MEP for the United Kingdom Independence Party who attended the
meeting, said: "People in Guernsey do not want to change their currency and do
not want their relationship with the Crown diluted in any form.''

LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 25, 2008 Friday 8:17 PM GMT

Despotism in the European Parliament

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1348 words


I thought that, after eight years in the European Parliament, nothing could
shock me any more. I was wrong.

The Parliament is seeking to override its own rules

Yesterday, the President of the Parliament, Hans-Gert Pttering, asked for, and
was granted, arbitrary powers to suspend the rules of the institution in order
to disadvantage the tiny number of MEPs who want a referendum on the European
Constitution Lisbon Treaty.

I have come to expect hypersensitivity to criticism, flouting of rules,
intolerance of dissent, authoritarianism. But nothing had prepared me for such
blatancy.

Hans-Gert openly admitted that the behaviour of his Euro-sceptic opponents was
within the rules. And he wasn't asking to change those rules  a procedure that
would take time. No, he simply wanted permission to disregard them. Permission
was duly granted, by 20 committee votes to 3.

Hans-Gert's letter is worth quoting in full:

Dear Mr Leinen, [Jo Leinen, a German Socialist, is Chairman of the
Constitutional Affairs Committee]

In the course of the current part session, Parliament was confronted on several
occasions with procedural requests which were formally based on and fulfilled
the requirements of a provision of the Rules of Procedure, but which according
to the full conviction of myself and of other Members of the House were moved
with the intention of obstructing the procedures of the House.

I take the view that my overall responsibility for the implementation of the
Rules of Procedure and the powers conferred on me by Rule 19 include the power
not to allow such practices.

I should therefore be grateful if, pursuant to Rule 201(1), you could submit to
the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the following question for urgent
consideration:

'Can Rule 19(1) be interpreted as meaning that the powers conferred by this Rule
include the power to call an end to excessive use of motions such as points of
order, procedural motions, explanations of vote and excessive, indiscriminate
requests for separate, split or roll call votes where these appear to the
President to be aimed at deliberately disrupting the procedures of the House or
the rights of other Members.'

I would appreciate it if I could have your Committee's interpretation before the
opening of the next part session.

I haven't made this up: you can see a copy of the original letter over at
England Expects.

Re-read the letter slowly. Hans-Gert accepts that our demands for electronic
votes and for the right to explain how we voted were perfectly legal. But he
does not ask for the rules to be changed. He asks for the right to ignore them
at his own discretion  that is, to ignore such requests when they come from
Euro-sceptics.

His fig-leaf  more of a strawberry-leaf, really  is Rule 19 (1). This, too, is
worth quoting:

"The President shall direct all the activities of the Parliament and its bodies
under the conditions laid down in these Rules. He shall enjoy all the powers
necessary to preside over the proceedings of Parliament and to ensure that they
are properly conducted." (Emphasis added)

In other words, the President is bound by Rule 19 to uphold the Rules of
Procedure, not allowed to set them aside as he pleases.

The whole business is outrageous. I am almost tempted to compare it to the Nazi
Ermchtigungsgesetz  the Enabling Act of 1933 which allowed Hitler to override
parliament and the constitution. But I won't because a) it would be
disproportionate and b) it would be terrifically rude to Hans-Gert, who lost his
father in the war and who, for all that he is behaving appallingly on this
occasion, is a decent man and a democrat. Which is why I am so disappointed in
him. He, of all people, should be alive to the dangers of assuming discretionary
powers in order to bulldozer the law.

Let me instead quote the grand-daddy of British resistance against
Euro-totalitarianism, Edmund Burke. What most bothered him about the French
Revolution, more than its republicanism, its atheism, its threat to the peace of
Europe, was that it owned itself bound by no law.

"They must be worse than blind who cannot see with what undeviating regularity
of system, in this case and in all cases, they pursue their scheme for the
destruction of every independent power," he wrote in his Letters on a Regicide
Peace. "Their will is the law, not only at home, but as to the concerns of every
nation. They have swept aside the very constitutions under which Legislatures
acted and the Laws were made."

Eerily prescient, no? And what has driven the European Parliament to these
lengths? What has provoked them to tear up their own rules? A massive filibuster
that was preventing them from passing any Bills? Hardly.

As loyal readers of this blog will know, the President of the European
Parliament already enjoys considerable discretionary powers. But MEPs have two
rights that even he cannot override: we can demand that votes be counted
electronically rather than by a show-of-hands (a slightly slower procedure, but
a more accurate one, and one that allows everyone to see how their MEPs voted);
and we can ask for the right to explain, in not more than one minute, why we
voted as we did.

A handful of pro-referendum MEPs  souverainistes from Poland and France,
Scandinavian Left-wingers, UKIP and Conservatives from Britain, along with Jim
Allister from Northern Ireland, the most honest man in Unionist politics
decided to make full use of both procedures in order to protest about the
cancellation of the promised referendums and the implementation of large parts
of the constitution in anticipation of formal ratification. I have been ending
every speech, in a playful echo of Cato's "Delenda Est Carthago", with "Pacto
Olisipiensis Censenda Est"  The Lisbon Treaty must be Put to the Vote.

Two dozen MEPs making a series of one minute speeches hardly constitutes a
filibuster. At worst, we would have kept MEPs from their lunch for half an hour
and perhaps delayed the start of the afternoon session. But even this is
intolerable to the parliamentary authorities. Blinded by their resentment of
"anti-Europeans", which is in turn a surrogate for the fear and contempt they
feel for their own electorates, they have abandoned any pretence at legality in
order to prevent us making our point in the chamber. The very sound of someone
calling for a referendum is offensive to their guilty ears. The sight of even so
moderate and respectable an MEP as Kathy Sinnot, an Irish disability rights
campaigner, wearing a tee-shirt with the word "REFERENDUM" has led to her being
summoned for disciplinary action.

What they really hate, my federalist colleagues, is being reminded of the fact
that they all supported referendums until it became clear they would lose them.
We are their bad consciences, the ghosts at their feast.

To prolong the Macbeth reference a little, the shocking thing about their
behaviour is not that they are trying to silence their critics, nor even that
they are breaking the rules  after all, they are doing so on a much grander
scale by reviving the constitution following two "No" votes. No, the
breath-taking aspect of the whole business is that they haven't troubled to hide
the illegality of what they're doing. They've happily put it all on paper. As
Lady Macbeth puts it:

"What need we fear who knows it, when none can call our power to account?"

But there comes a point when the arrogance of power, the sense that there is one
rule for the elites and one for everyone else, becomes intolerable. A point
where Birnam Wood starts advancing on Dunsinane. By behaving as they have, MEPs
have brought forward that moment.

It is now clear that the constitution has no legitimacy. It is becoming clear,
too that the European Parliament has lost whatever shreds of legitimacy it might
once have had. So let me close with another prescient quotation from Burke:

"Who that admires, and from the heart is attached, to true national parliaments,
but must turn in horror and disgust from such a profane burlesque and parody of
that sacred institution."

LOAD-DATE: October 31, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      January 25, 2008 Friday 8:17 PM GMT

Despotism in the European Parliament

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 1348 words


I thought that, after eight years in the European Parliament, nothing could
shock me any more. I was wrong.

The Parliament is seeking to override its own rules

Yesterday, the President of the Parliament, Hans-Gert Pttering, asked for, and
was granted, arbitrary powers to suspend the rules of the institution in order
to disadvantage the tiny number of MEPs who want a referendum on the European
Constitution Lisbon Treaty.

I have come to expect hypersensitivity to criticism, flouting of rules,
intolerance of dissent, authoritarianism. But nothing had prepared me for such
blatancy.

Hans-Gert openly admitted that the behaviour of his Euro-sceptic opponents was
within the rules. And he wasn't asking to change those rules  a procedure that
would take time. No, he simply wanted permission to disregard them. Permission
was duly granted, by 20 committee votes to 3.

Hans-Gert's letter is worth quoting in full:

Dear Mr Leinen, [Jo Leinen, a German Socialist, is Chairman of the
Constitutional Affairs Committee]

In the course of the current part session, Parliament was confronted on several
occasions with procedural requests which were formally based on and fulfilled
the requirements of a provision of the Rules of Procedure, but which according
to the full conviction of myself and of other Members of the House were moved
with the intention of obstructing the procedures of the House.

I take the view that my overall responsibility for the implementation of the
Rules of Procedure and the powers conferred on me by Rule 19 include the power
not to allow such practices.

I should therefore be grateful if, pursuant to Rule 201(1), you could submit to
the Committee on Constitutional Affairs the following question for urgent
consideration:

'Can Rule 19(1) be interpreted as meaning that the powers conferred by this Rule
include the power to call an end to excessive use of motions such as points of
order, procedural motions, explanations of vote and excessive, indiscriminate
requests for separate, split or roll call votes where these appear to the
President to be aimed at deliberately disrupting the procedures of the House or
the rights of other Members.'

I would appreciate it if I could have your Committee's interpretation before the
opening of the next part session.

I haven't made this up: you can see a copy of the original letter over at
England Expects.

Re-read the letter slowly. Hans-Gert accepts that our demands for electronic
votes and for the right to explain how we voted were perfectly legal. But he
does not ask for the rules to be changed. He asks for the right to ignore them
at his own discretion  that is, to ignore such requests when they come from
Euro-sceptics.

His fig-leaf  more of a strawberry-leaf, really  is Rule 19 (1). This, too, is
worth quoting:

"The President shall direct all the activities of the Parliament and its bodies
under the conditions laid down in these Rules. He shall enjoy all the powers
necessary to preside over the proceedings of Parliament and to ensure that they
are properly conducted." (Emphasis added)

In other words, the President is bound by Rule 19 to uphold the Rules of
Procedure, not allowed to set them aside as he pleases.

The whole business is outrageous. I am almost tempted to compare it to the Nazi
Ermchtigungsgesetz  the Enabling Act of 1933 which allowed Hitler to override
parliament and the constitution. But I won't because a) it would be
disproportionate and b) it would be terrifically rude to Hans-Gert, who lost his
father in the war and who, for all that he is behaving appallingly on this
occasion, is a decent man and a democrat. Which is why I am so disappointed in
him. He, of all people, should be alive to the dangers of assuming discretionary
powers in order to bulldozer the law.

Let me instead quote the grand-daddy of British resistance against
Euro-totalitarianism, Edmund Burke. What most bothered him about the French
Revolution, more than its republicanism, its atheism, its threat to the peace of
Europe, was that it owned itself bound by no law.

"They must be worse than blind who cannot see with what undeviating regularity
of system, in this case and in all cases, they pursue their scheme for the
destruction of every independent power," he wrote in his Letters on a Regicide
Peace. "Their will is the law, not only at home, but as to the concerns of every
nation. They have swept aside the very constitutions under which Legislatures
acted and the Laws were made."

Eerily prescient, no? And what has driven the European Parliament to these
lengths? What has provoked them to tear up their own rules? A massive filibuster
that was preventing them from passing any Bills? Hardly.

As loyal readers of this blog will know, the President of the European
Parliament already enjoys considerable discretionary powers. But MEPs have two
rights that even he cannot override: we can demand that votes be counted
electronically rather than by a show-of-hands (a slightly slower procedure, but
a more accurate one, and one that allows everyone to see how their MEPs voted);
and we can ask for the right to explain, in not more than one minute, why we
voted as we did.

A handful of pro-referendum MEPs  souverainistes from Poland and France,
Scandinavian Left-wingers, UKIP and Conservatives from Britain, along with Jim
Allister from Northern Ireland, the most honest man in Unionist politics
decided to make full use of both procedures in order to protest about the
cancellation of the promised referendums and the implementation of large parts
of the constitution in anticipation of formal ratification. I have been ending
every speech, in a playful echo of Cato's "Delenda Est Carthago", with "Pacto
Olisipiensis Censenda Est"  The Lisbon Treaty must be Put to the Vote.

Two dozen MEPs making a series of one minute speeches hardly constitutes a
filibuster. At worst, we would have kept MEPs from their lunch for half an hour
and perhaps delayed the start of the afternoon session. But even this is
intolerable to the parliamentary authorities. Blinded by their resentment of
"anti-Europeans", which is in turn a surrogate for the fear and contempt they
feel for their own electorates, they have abandoned any pretence at legality in
order to prevent us making our point in the chamber. The very sound of someone
calling for a referendum is offensive to their guilty ears. The sight of even so
moderate and respectable an MEP as Kathy Sinnot, an Irish disability rights
campaigner, wearing a tee-shirt with the word "REFERENDUM" has led to her being
summoned for disciplinary action.

What they really hate, my federalist colleagues, is being reminded of the fact
that they all supported referendums until it became clear they would lose them.
We are their bad consciences, the ghosts at their feast.

To prolong the Macbeth reference a little, the shocking thing about their
behaviour is not that they are trying to silence their critics, nor even that
they are breaking the rules  after all, they are doing so on a much grander
scale by reviving the constitution following two "No" votes. No, the
breath-taking aspect of the whole business is that they haven't troubled to hide
the illegality of what they're doing. They've happily put it all on paper. As
Lady Macbeth puts it:

"What need we fear who knows it, when none can call our power to account?"

But there comes a point when the arrogance of power, the sense that there is one
rule for the elites and one for everyone else, becomes intolerable. A point
where Birnam Wood starts advancing on Dunsinane. By behaving as they have, MEPs
have brought forward that moment.

It is now clear that the constitution has no legitimacy. It is becoming clear,
too that the European Parliament has lost whatever shreds of legitimacy it might
once have had. So let me close with another prescient quotation from Burke:

"Who that admires, and from the heart is attached, to true national parliaments,
but must turn in horror and disgust from such a profane burlesque and parody of
that sacred institution."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 24, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

G2: The great ID card rebellion: In the beginning, it was a grand vision.
Compulsory identity cards would be in the forefront of the fight against
terrorism, organised crime, illegal immigration and benefit fraud. Now, three
home secretaries later, the scheme's defenders talk meekly of a voluntary scheme
which will make people's lives that little bit easier. So what's changed? John
Harris reports

BYLINE: John Harris

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 2832 words


It's not much of an HQ: a tiny, rather airless room five minutes from Lambeth
Bridge, stacked high with box files, piles of leaflets and the detritus of
office life. Balanced against one wall is a mock-up of an identity card
featuring the image of Tony Blair, one of a run that has also featured the
likenesses of David Blunkett, Charles Clarke and John Reid. "We're on to our
fourth home secretary in three and a half years," says a man who has dropped by
to stock up on campaign bumf. "And I shouldn't think this one will last very
long."

This is the nerve-centre of No2ID, a campaign born in a London pub in 2004, and
these days managing to make a good deal of the running in one of our most highly
charged debates. According to its national organiser, 39-year-old Phil Booth, in
addition to a hard core of around 2,000 members-cum-regular donors, No2ID has
attracted more than 40,000 "registered supporters", as well as 100 or so
affiliated organisations. The latter betray just what a mind-boggling coalition
of people the campaign has attracted: as well as the Green party, the Lib Dems
and the SNP, the list features UKIP and the ultra-libertarian Freedom
Association, as well as the Association of British Drivers and Newhaven town
council. No2ID's range of supportive "public figures" is no less diverse: this
must surely be the only campaign to ally the ex-Stone Roses singer Ian Brown
with John Redwood, as well as Joanna Lumley, Philip Pullman and Michael
Portillo.

No2ID's mission is simple enough. Largely funded by individual donations and the
support of the Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust, it is a "UK-wide, non-partisan
campaign opposing the government's planned ID card and national identity
register". It works with MPs and peers from all the mainstream parties, and is
currently encouraging members of the public to put their names to a pledge,
whereby they promise that they will not register for an ID card, supply their
personal details to the government's proposed identity register, or cooperate
with any official inter- view about their identity. So far, 11,361 people have
signed up.

Exactly what No2ID is up against is currently rather unclear. There are two
aspects of what the government calls the National Identity Scheme: the roll-out
of ID cards, and the creation of the database on which the state will store -
among 49 items of information - people's photographs, passport numbers, driver
numbers (given on driving licences), fingerprints, national insurance numbers,
dates of birth and addresses. By way of softening the introduction of all this,
there will initially be no specified date on which every British citizen has to
be signed up; instead, to start things off, the government has proposed that
people either applying for their first passport or renewing an existing one will
have their details entered into the register and be issued with an ID card. Via
passports and other "designated documents", the scheme will thus be rolled out
bit by bit, leaving a final move on what campaigners call "universal compulsion"
to follow in the future, after a vote in parliament.

Once you have got past those rough details, it all gets pretty hazy. Though the
Identity Cards Act of 2006 specifies January 1 2010 as the date from which
anyone applying for a passport will have to be entered on to the register and
issued with a card, the Home Office now says that 2011 might be a more realistic
date, and the minister responsible now claims that people "might not be issued
with a card at that point - that's something we're still debating". To make
things yet more confusing, this week brought news of official documents leaked
to the Conservative party suggesting that 2012 was a more likely prospect,
leading the shadow home secretary, David Davis, to claim that the identity
scheme was now in "intensive care". It certainly seems remarkable that, despite
the scale of the government's plans and supposedly looming deadlines, no
procurement contracts have been signed.

And so the confusion goes on. Though 2013 was initially proposed as a possible
dateline for universal compulsion, it is now suggested that it may not come
until around 2018 at the earliest, depending on "full acceptance of the
voluntary scheme" (which, truth be told, may only be "voluntary" if you want to
give up your right to foreign travel). The scheme's opponents claim that by way
of mopping up some of the 20% of us who do not have passports, the introduction
of ID cards will be linked to driving licences, a concern the government answers
with the not-exactly-reassuring claim that it has "no plans" to do so, though
more definite noises have been made about cards soon being mandatory for people
employed in "positions of trust".

To cap it all, with public opinion shaken up by a succession of huge stories
involving the loss of personal information, the tone of the government's
rhetoric has shifted. Messrs Blair, Blunkett and Clarke once ambitiously talked
up the National Identity Scheme as a dependable means of fighting terrorism,
organised crime, illegal immigration and benefit fraud. As late as June last
year, the Home Office minister Liam Byrne claimed that the scheme would
eventually be seen as a "modern-day public good" along the same lines as
"railways in the 19th century and the national grid". These days, those in
charge of the project are prone to make their case in more modest terms,
emphasising how a single standard of identity would make millions of lives that
bit more convenient.

When I talk to Booth - a sometime sculptor, teacher and internet entrepreneur
who devotes himself full-time to No2ID - it does not take long to get to the
central fact that makes the organisation's campaigning job more difficult than
most. Not only do the government's arguments keep shifting, but as against, say,
the poll tax, there will be no flashpoint date when the scheme collides with the
mass of the public. Moreover, refusal to cooperate will initially be less about
a day in court than not having a passport. So, if people want to either register
their opposition or avoid being roped in (or both), what should they do?

"Renew your passport now," he says. "Buy yourself 10 years." In 2006, No2ID set
up an offshoot campaign called Renew For Freedom, encouraging people to be
mindful of the date their current passport expired, and get their application in
early.

Once the identity scheme is decisively linked to passports, he says, No2ID's
tactics will not emphasise sit-ins and marches, but rather a series of legal
actions against the government. "The very fact that this scheme could deny
people the basic requirements of their jobs and their lives means that we are
going to have a whole swathe of ways in which we can challenge them," he says.
The identity scheme's appeals process will open up one set of opportunities; he
also reckons that compelling only some of the population to cooperate is
"discriminatory", and will thereby focus a good deal of his attention on
litigation bound up with the Human Rights Act.

After an hour of conversation, he reaches his righteous crescendo. "The
government haven't understood what it means to do this to people," he says. "The
basic premise of the identity cards scheme is that 50 million people will meekly
line up, like sheep, and submit to interrogation, be fingerprinted, and be
issued with an official identity. It is not going to happen. It never was going
to happen. Even in the first opinion polls, when 80% of people were saying, 'I
think ID cards are quite a good idea', there were three million people saying
no. This was never going to be a practicable policy."

Fifteen minutes' walk from the No2ID office is the Palace of Westminster, where
the identity debate currently defines a good deal of the political weather,
pointing up an issue on which the opposition parties are just about united, and
which some Labour dissidents see as proof of the Brown government's failure to
throw off the more toxic aspects of the Blair inheritance. When canvassing
opinions among the latter group, it does not take long to hear a familiar
refrain: that if the government still affects a gung-ho attitude on the identity
scheme, the shifts in its rhetoric suggest that even if Labour wins the next
election, the plans will eventually wither away. "I'm optimistic that even if it
starts to roll out, at some point down the line this is all going to start to
fall apart," says Neil Gerrard, the Labour MP for Walthamstow, and a sharp
critic of the plans. "I think it'll be disputed by the courts. If you reach a
point where somebody is being told, 'You cannot be issued with a passport
because you have not put your name on the register', you're bound to get human
rights challenges to that."

When Michael Howard was Tory leader, the Conservatives negotiated a fairly
washed-out compromise on the initial ID cards legislation, supporting it on the
basis that passport applicants could opt out before 2010, though now the scheme
does not look set to arrive until 2011 at the earliest, that does not look set
to amount to very much. In any case, the Tories are now pledged to repeal the
Identity Cards Act, though they refuse to endorse any call for non-cooperation
by the public. "Law makers can't be law breakers" is their mantra, an argument
chiefly focused on the Liberal Democrats' new leader.

During the Lib Dems' recent leadership election, it was on this issue that Nick
Clegg decisively found his voice. While he was the party's home affairs
spokesman, he had established ongoing links with No2ID, and publicised his
ministerial team's decision to renew their passports early. By the time he stood
for the top job, his opposition was even more pointed. By way of underlining a
keen sense of his party's history, he made repeated reference to Harry Willcock,
a Liberal party activist who, circa 1950, played a key part in the belated
abandonment of the ID scheme that had been introduced during the second world
war and had famously refused to show police his ID card with the words, "I am a
Liberal; I am against that sort of thing."

This, Clegg reckoned, was the example to follow. "If legislation is passed," he
said, "I will lead a grassroots campaign of civil disobedience. I, and I expect
thousands of people like me, will simply refuse ever to register."

When we meet in his Westminster office, I read the quote out to him. Does he
stand by it? "Well," he says, "the first thing I'll do, of course, is argue
against the legislation."

OK. But if Labour win the next election and the watershed moment of universal
compulsion arrives, what then? He pauses. "I'm going to effectively lead by
example. I just cannot envisage the circumstances in which I would, by
compulsion, give up my data."

When I ask him whether he would definitely advocate that as a course of action
for other people to take, he noticeably hesitates. So I ask the question in a
slightly different way: surely any leadership of a grassroots campaign would be
on the basis of 'I've done this, and so should you'. Wouldn't it?

"Yes. Of course. It would amount to me saying, 'If you are as worried about this
as I am, if you object to this as much as I do, if you find this objectionable,
then join me in refusing to give details to the database."

Here's a crass but unavoidable question, then. Would you go to jail?

"Well, I mean . . . I'd be prepared to go to court. I guess it would start with
fines. We don't know what the sanctions are going to be, but I can't take my
position - that I'm not going to accept compulsion even if it's written into
primary legislation - unless I'm prepared to face the sanctions."

He agrees that all this represents a big step, happily acknowledging that some
of his colleagues advised him against it. His young staff make a point of
reminding me that imprisonment would mean that their boss would have to give up
his parliamentary seat. But is he really prepared to go to such lengths?

"Look," he says. "I think there are issues which define the relationship between
the state and the citizen. (Pause) Well, everything defines the relationship
between the state and the citizen, but there are very few issues that I can
think of in contemporary politics that define it in as stark a way as compulsion
on data and ID cards. And, you know, there's a very good reason why the ID cards
system that was established in 1939 collapsed in 1953. It was the result of
civic resistance.

"This unites everybody," he says. "One can get dangerously romantic about it,
but there is something about it that I think people feel just isn't consistent
with our understanding of what is best about Britain. It is slightly
romanticised, this image of ourselves as a land of the free, because we arguably
live with a more centralised and illiberal system of government than almost
anywhere else in the developed world. But notwithstanding all that, self- image
is crucial to the identity of a nation. And what would really destroy that
self-image is a feeling that we are being arbitrarily and compulsorily asked to
do things by the state that we don't understand."

Meg Hiller is the Labour MP for Hackney South and Shoreditch. In the wake of the
handover from Blair to Brown, she became what official-speak terms the
parliamentary under-secretary of state (Identity). In the wake of my meeting
with Nick Clegg, her aides send me a succession of emails about what the
National Identity Register will hold, and who will have access to it. "There
will be controls to segregate the data, with biographic information being held
separately from biometric information," they tell me. "Very few authorised staff
will be able to see full records and these will be treated as highly
protectively marked."

Though Clegg bases at least some of his opposition on the idea that the data on
the register will be subject to "mission creep", the Home Office line is to
stress the supposedly minimal nature of what they are after. There will, they
say, be no information held "on a person's political or religious opinion,
health records, criminal record, tax or other financial records. It will hold
the same sort of identity information that the government already holds for the
issue of passports, plus biometrics such as facial image and fingerprints."
Hiller says that anyone accessing the register without authorisation will face a
two-year prison sentence, and that identity data going missing is all but
inconceivable. "There wouldn't be information on discs and stuff, because you
would access it remotely," she says. "There certainly wouldn't be a laptop with
all this information on it."

For each of those claims, of course, No2ID and its allies have a corresponding
argument - and besides, their opposition is surely as much a matter of
philosophical principle as simple logistics. And I wonder: given the fact that
recent events seem to have put the identity scheme's advocates on the back foot,
are their calls for public non-cooperation a concern?

"I think we should be clear on a couple of things," Hiller says. "There are
certain people who say, 'I will never carry one, and I will go to prison.' Well,
for one, you don't have to carry an identity card - it's not a requirement.
You're not going to be asked to present it randomly by someone in the street."

That's not quite the argument, though. The big issue for the people I have
spoken to is being added to the national register.

"Well, most of these people are on the passport database. And they haven't got a
big problem with that. So what is the big difference?"

What, I wonder, about the fog surrounding the issue of universal compulsion?
"The proviso on any compulsion," she says, "is that the voluntary scheme is
working, and accepted, and bedding in. I would hope that the voluntary scheme
works. If it doesn't . . . well, you know, it's part of my job to make sure I
get it to the next stage. But that's a long way off. I can't foresee exactly
what'll be happening in 10 years time.

"There are many benefits this can deliver, short of it being universal," she
goes on. "For example: convenience for people travelling on a document that's
not as valuable as their passport and is cheaper to produce. When I last went to
a bank and had to prove something, it was a pain in the neck . . . If you've got
a proven document and you're on the national identity register, these things are
benefits."

One thing keeps nagging away at me, though. Once I have talked to Hiller, I go
back to a sheaf of newspaper cuttings from the distant days of 2004-5, when the
government was much less hesitant about the need for compulsion, and way more
gung-ho about the benefits it would bring. In among them, I find a slightly more
recent quote about the government's plan from a senior Labour figure: "In my
opinion, without it being mandatory, there is little point in doing it."

David Blunkett said that. You may remember that when the National Identity
Scheme was first formally proposed, he was the home secretary *

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: January 25, 2008 Friday



CORRECTION: Meg Hillier, not Hiller, is the MP for Hackney South and Shoreditch
(The great ID card rebellion, page 10, G2, yesterday). In a caption to an
accompanying photograph Diane Abbott and Josie Long were transposed.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday

Cameron must promise to take us out of the Treaty of Lisbon

BYLINE: SIMON HEFFER

SECTION: FEATURES; COMMENT; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 1198 words


For the avoidance of doubt - and I would never want you to have any of that -
let me state where, for what it is worth, I stand on the European Union. I am
against it. This is not a johnny-come-lately position. I have been against it
since before we were in it. I was against it when many of those now against it
were actually rather for it. I can still recall the visceral disappointment
when, in June 1975, we missed the chance to come out of it. I look at
Third-World and collapsing economies such as Norway and Switzerland, and think
wistfully of what might have been.

The root of my opposition is straightforward. I wish to live in a country that
governs itself. I wish to vote for people who, if elected, have power to take
decisions and to alter the policies with which we are governed. I am not sure
that is too much to ask. I grew up believing that was why my father and
grandfather fought in two world wars. I have never understood why so many of our
politicians, who bang on about "rights'' and "democracy'' when they stand in our
elections seem quite happy to forgo the same where Europe is concerned.

What is the point of electing governments, if there are vital policies that they
cannot alter? That to me has always been the clinching argument against our
entering the single currency. We would be slaves to someone else's economic
policy.

At present, if the way a government runs our economy is offensive, we can change
the government and with it the policy. If we were economically administered from
Frankfurt, simply unelecting one government and replacing it with another would
be a footling exercise. The economic policy would stay the same. The only way we
might change things would be to riot to such an extent that a new European
political accommodation would have to be made. If you think I exaggerate, look
at France. President Sarkozy is doing his nut because of what he regards as the
overvaluation of the euro, and the effect this is having on his country's
industries, notably aerospace. Short of restoring the franc, there is nothing he
can do about it, though that will not stop his insurrectionists from punishing
him for the problem, once the weather improves.

We are not in the single currency, though its temporary strength is sure to
provoke another round of ignorant claims that we should be. We are, however, in
the process of ratifying the Treaty of Lisbon, which will allow much wider
European interference in many of our already diminished sovereign rights: such
as in home affairs and justice, immigration and energy policy, and that's only
the start. This, you will recall, is the treaty that our great leader was too
ashamed to turn up to sign when everybody else did: he sneaked in while they
were having their lunch, rather like one of the under-gardeners hoping for a sly
plate of leftovers.

For those of us who were at Maastricht, and recall that treaty's ratification
from early 1992 until the summer of 1993, a sense of déjà vu is about to engulf
us. We can bet the Government will be taken to the wire on ratification. Some of
its own backbenchers - but not so many as is hoped - will stand out against it.
Some of the opposition parties will attempt to enhance the Government's
discomfort by seeking to prevent ratification by joining forces with these
rebels. If that does not succeed - and it is hard to see it will, at this stage
- then, in the end, the wretched thing will be on the statute book. The EU's
principal aim - to get its own way, irrespective of the democratic feelings of
its member states - would have been fulfilled. A significant step closer towards
federalism would have been taken. The rioters will be a little nearer the
barricades.

This treaty is, though, poisonous in a way even Maastricht was not. In 1992-93
we wanted a referendum, but none was promised: John Major knew what the result
would be. So, now, does Gordon Brown: and he therefore has reneged on his
predecessor's promise to hold one. Do not believe the casuistic claptrap that
the Prime Minister and his morally defective cronies come out with to seek to
justify this breach of promise. The treaty is substantially the same as the
rejected constitution. Everybody knows that, and many high officials here and
abroad have admitted as much. Mr Brown, who treats the electorate as if we were
something he has trodden in on the pavement, may regard this as simply another
act of contempt with which he will, in time, get away. He is wrong.

The EU is now reaching a point where its centralising, sovereignty-stealing
obsessions will cause day-to-day outrage to the public. It may take this, or
perhaps even one more federalising pile of dishonesty after it, to push us to
breaking point: but we will break. We will break because we are, in our hearts,
a democratic people. We resent the spectacle of our politicians - low though so
many of them are - being humiliated by having to kow-tow to their, and our,
masters in Brussels. We are revolted by the sight of our Parliament being
rendered impotent. We feel special disgust - and here the Conservative Party
should take note - at not being offered an adequate choice at elections on the
future of Europe. That is why, for all the ridicule heaped on it, the UK
Independence Party continues to have MEPs elected, and to cost the Tory party
seats in Westminster elections.

I am in no doubt that, for all sorts of reasons, both honourable and cynical,
the Conservatives will fight this treaty. I applaud their opposition to the
ratification process, and their failed attempt - thwarted by the Speaker - to
have the Bill amended to force a plebiscite. But they need a clear plan of what
to do if, or rather when, all else fails. It is obvious what it must be: an
unequivocal commitment to repeal the Act ratifying the treaty should they be
returned to office after the next election.

David Cameron is nervous about giving such an undertaking. Does he seriously
want to win power, or is he interested only in making a series of fashion
statements? He has shot himself in both feet already, by refusing to promise
proper tax cuts and by his foolish disdain for grammar schools. I dread to think
which part of his anatomy, having run out of feet, he will shoot himself in now
if he chooses not to promise, when and if ratification happens, to seek to
reverse it.

He would simply be undoing the betrayal by the present Government that the
treaty would represent, given the breach of promise about a referendum. Some of
his MPs - seven who have signed up to the Better Off Out movement, and many more
who lack the guts or have too much greasy ambition to do so - would rather he
promised to repeal the 1972 Act ratifying the Treaty of Brussels, which took us
in to this neo-soviet cartel in the first place. I know he cannot go that far.
But he can make a principled and populist commitment to stop any more of our
democracy being flushed down the euro-lavatory. We must hope it doesn't come to
that. However, there is no excuse for a responsible opposition - and an
opposition that says it would like to win power - to have no plan in place for
when and if the horrid day comes, however much it might frighten the horses.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                               The Sun (England)

                           January 23, 2008 Wednesday

Lib Dems in EU-turn

BYLINE: Michael Lea, Political Correspondent

LENGTH: 273 words


WEASEL Lib Dem chief Nick Clegg yesterday pledged to stop voters having a say on
the re-jigged EU Constitution.

Squirming Clegg was pressed FIVE times in an interview over whether his MPs
would bale out Gordon Brown if a referendum looked likely. He finally admitted
he WOULD order his party to come to the PM's rescue in a Commons vote.

Labour rebels will put down an amendment in the coming weeks hoping to force a
referendum.

Asked if the Lib Dems would abstain if they held the balance, Clegg answered: "I
certainly hope not. No."

The calculating new Lib Dem leader then added he would see what the
"parliamentary mathematics" were before deciding his position.

Last night Clegg - who backed calls for a poll at the 2005 General Election -
was blasted for failing his first big test as leader during the grilling on BBC
Radio 4's Today programme. Party insiders were furious that he had changed tack
after it was agreed that the policy was to abstain from all votes on a poll.

Shadow Foreign Secretary William Hague said: "They told voters they wanted a
referendum. Then they decided to abstain from a referendum.

"Now they will bale out a failing and discredited Government which is itself
breaking its election promise.

"To change their votes according to the parliamentary arithmetic is exactly what
discredits British politics - acting without principles at all."

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage called Lib Dems' behaviour "thoroughly
dishonest".

Clegg's party claims the EU Treaty is different from the dumped Constitution.

The Bill to ratify the Treaty - signed by Mr Brown last month - cleared its
first Commons hurdle on Monday.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 22, 2008 Tuesday 11:07 PM GMT

Red, blue and swing boroughs of London

BYLINE: By Mick Fealty

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 511 words


Full coverage of UK politics                                              It
remains to be seen what effects last night's documentary on Ken Livingstone has
on a finely balanced London electorate. Certainly the news that Ken is given to
a snifter or two of whiskey whilst on the job, will come as a surprise to many.
But the degree to which the rest sticks is uncertain.

Head-to-head: Can Ken beat Boris?

Speaking to Brassneck, Tony Travers, one of those interviewed on the programme,
noted a change in the centre of gravity of the opposition to Ken. "When I was
watching him back in the 1980's it was simple: Ken against Thatcher and the
Tories. Now much of his most vibrant opposition is coming from the left."
Indeed, Martin Bright uses his regular slot in the Evening Standard to
re-iterate the message of last night's programme.

But Travers also believes that between them, Boris Johnson and Ken Livingstone
will harden up the electoral contest in a way we've not seen in the two previous
run outs for London Mayor. This year too, there are no European elections for
Ukip to help muddy the Tory waters. Many, though not necessarily all, of the
'Blue Boroughs' like Havering and Redbridge along with old Tory bankers like
Kensington and Chelsea or Westminster are likely to line up behind Boris in a
way that they did not for 'Labour's favourite Tory', Steve Norris.

Ken too has his hard core areas of support. Newham with its high proportions of
working class and muslim populations should return a solid support for the
current incumbent. He should also have a reliable bank of support through
traditionally Labour constituencies, like Lambeth, Tower Hamlets, Lambeth and
Lewisham.

If we were to go on the last elections in 2006, and presume that everyone votes
the same way, the honours will probably go to Boris. Indeed for a man who has
kept quiet since his selection, he starts from a high point: ie, just one point
behind Ken in the ITN YouGov poll in December. The figures then were:
Livingstone 45%, Johnson 44%, Paddick 7%, Other 4%.

But as Travers pointed out, London is essentially a pluralist polity.
Proportionally the parties in the 06 Borough elections split: Labour 35; Tories
35; Lib Dems 20; and others 10. Given there are also are three Lib Dem and seven
'hung' Boroughs, this is not going to be an easy election to call, particularly
when Supplementary Vote system is factored in. We can expect a high degree of
churn to flow towards the main candidates. Little work has yet been done to see
wherevoters are likely to go with their second preferences.

So where are the 'swing boroughs', and which way will they fall?

Looking at the figures for 2006 I'm going to suggest four places to watch for
swing voting. Croydon, Hounslow, Ealing and Hammersmith and Fulham. All places
where there were significant swings to the Tories in 2006 but where Labour still
remain in contention.

Whichever way it goes, this year it is definitely game on.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                January 20, 2008

Comment: Why do so many men still think the sex trade is fine?: The trial of
Steve Wright confirms how dangerous prostitution is but legalising it would do
nothing to aid the plight of women involved

BYLINE: Catherine Bennett

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1194 words


Following the example of Lord Longford, who established that, where sex is
concerned, adjustments to British legislation should always be preceded by an
inspection of foreign arrangements, Home Office minister Vernon Coaker toured
various Stockholm addresses, investigating the impact of Sweden's decision to
criminalise men who pay for sex. Whether it was a question of thrift, or a
natural reluctance on Mr Coaker's part to re-enact highlights from Lord
Longford's Scandinavian excursion, the Swedish researches were completed in a
day, which must barely have left time for the minister and his team, including
Vera Baird and Barbara Follett, to 'cooee' up a few brothel stairs and reach the
conclusion that, although some Swedish people think the scheme has worked, other
Swedish people think not.

The next stop on the comparative prostitution tour will, I understand, be the
Netherlands, where some people think it's enlightened to have women
eye-catchingly displayed as wares in shop windows, but other people don't. After
that, the itinerary is unclear, though it seems unlikely the ministers will get
as far as New Zealand: a pity since the islands are currently advertised by
pro-legalisers as sex-trade heaven, even better than Amsterdam, where accredited
sex operatives now take genuine pride in their work and clients, too, are an
example to all, their connoisseurship finally liberated from those doubts which,
to judge by the statistics, still deter a number of British men from trying the
wide range of reasonably priced goods on offer.

So long as stocks last. Coaker is on the case, Harriet Harman wants to penalise
'the demand side' and Denis MacShane has tabled a suitable amendment to the
Criminal Justice and Immigration Bill, with the result that websites usually
preoccupied with punters' boasts and hints, are now home to agonised speculation
about the effects of this triple attack. Would respectable brothels be affected
by criminalisation? they wonder. Lap dancing? Strippers? Even their little bit
of porn?

Many agree that they, personally, would not pay for sex with a person like
Harriet 'Hormone', not if she begged them, a point they would make yet more
devastatingly - and with their real names on! - were it not for the stifling
conventions of their hobby. 'Due to its essentially clandestine nature,
opposition from people who are prepared to stand up and be counted is going to
be somewhat thin on the ground,' writes one sex-trade martyr, adding primly:
'Paying for sexual services is not an admission you would want to make public to
your family, friends or work colleagues, is it?'

No? What a mercy then, that the punters' case has now been advanced by some
prominent figures. In these pages, Henry Porter condemned the introduction of a
law that would 'attack a choice made by two consenting adults', and in the Times
, David Aaronovitch declared himself to be, after intense internal struggle,
absolutely unable to see what was bad about prostitution. 'Search my conscience
as hard as I can,' he wrote, 'I cannot think of anything in principle wrong with
a man or a woman choosing to pay for sexual contact or to charge for it.'

And if, in reality, men and women bought and sold sex in roughly equal numbers,
with neither group economically superior to the other, and no question of one
half of the bargain acting under duress or abject necessity, there may, indeed,
be nothing obviously wrong with the transaction. If prostitution, or 'sex work'
as Aaronovitch calls it, could also be divorced from substance abuse and
violence, from pimping and criminality, perhaps it could, eventually, cease
looking like a widespread expression of contempt for women and become, as he
suggests, a respectable alternative to cleaning for a living.

If this argument prevails, and Coaker's team plump for the legalised New Zealand
model, there is no reason why we should not, before long, see sex work hailed in
schools as an attractive option for less academic, diploma-style pupils,
subsequently blamed for the awful shortage of reliable domestics and, in the not
so distant future (the regulatory bodies having sorted out health and safety, a
sensible fee structure and an ombudsman for the queues of dissatisfied
customers) see it regularly mentioned in Christmas round robins from the parents
of suitably qualified daughters: 'Glad to say we've finally regained the spare
bedroom after Cordelia used it for sex work all through her gap year and - aside
from the unsocial hours and a couple of broken bones - claims to have thoroughly
enjoyed the experience!'For prostitution enthusiasts invariably have a friend of
a friend who can vouch for the fact that your truly professional working girls
do differ from cleaners in one important respect: far from being reluctant, they
just can't get enough of it. The rest of us have only to picture Billie Piper as
Belle de Jour, Fanny Hill in her corset, cheeky streetwalkers with a joke for
everyone and ask, as the Ukip Euro MP Godfrey Bloom did, if men aren't the real
victims of insatiable, yet calculating, female appetite: 'Outside of sex
trafficking, it seems to me that it's the women exploiting the men.'

Absolutely: outside sex trafficking. If the public needed educating about sex
trafficking (let's hope they are better at spotting it than punters), it seems
clear that emphasis on the especial vileness of this sector has helped convince
regular sex-buyers and their sympathisers that, if this imported evil could be
purged from sex commerce, we would be left with a domestic trade so wholesome as
to be virtually organic.

In a fascinating new study of men who buy sex, conducted for charity Toynbee
Hall's Safe Exit initiative, one man described his habit as 'just like going to
Tesco'. That would be the Tesco where two-thirds of female workers have been
subjected to violence, around 90 per cent are addicts and a distressing number
regularly get themselves murdered. Researchers concluded that 'legality
contributes to normalisation, which in turn increases the likelihood of paying
for sex'.

Conversely, as the Swedes are reportedly discovering, illegality contributes to
non-normalisation, which in turn decreases - though it will never eliminate -
the likelihood of paying for sex. Wouldn't that be a good thing? At least 150
years after Victorian philanthropists began to accept that most prostitutes are
victims of circumstance, as opposed to agents of raging lust, and four decades
since feminists started talking about objectification, to have to explain why
the sex trade is inconsistent with human dignity feels rather like pointing out
that slavery is a bit unfair on the slave.

Where to begin? In Ipswich Crown Court, perhaps, where Steve Wright is on trial
for murdering five women who worked as prostitutes. Each woman met the
definition of 'consenting adult', albeit a slightly built, drug-dependent
consenting adult, with no means, drugged or not, of defending herself from an
aggressor. And each woman appears to have concealed what she did from her
family. Strange, considering the job's no more compromising, for women who like
that kind of thing, than going out cleaning.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                           January 19, 2008 Saturday

Britain - Progressives urge high turnout to stop BNP

BYLINE: James Tweedie, Parliament

LENGTH: 285 words


Anti-fascist campaigners and MPs called for maximum voter turnout in May's
London Assembly elections on Thursday to stop the British National Party.

The meeting at Parliament was organised by the Hope Not Hate umbrella campaign
to plan its strategy for the Greater London Assembly (GLA) elections on May 1.

The fascist BNP won 4.8 per cent of the vote in the 2004 GLA elections - just
short of the 5 per cent needed to win a proportional representation (PR) seat on
the Assembly.

Labour MP and former mayoral candidate Frank Dobson said: "The BNP remain a
serious threat.

"They remain just as anti-semitic, anti-Muslim and anti-black as ever, even if
they wear suits and appear on the TV."

Former Labour deputy leadership contender Jon Cruddas added that the BNP sees
London as the "front line" and a 'stepping stone" to other PR elections,
including to the European Parliament.

Mr Cruddas, whose Dagenham constituency lies in the anti-fascist battleground of
Barking and Dagenham council, said that it was only the "extraordinary" 8.2 per
cent vote for the nationalist UK Independence Party (UKIP) in 2004 that stopped
the BNP from winning a seat.

Anti-fascist magazine Searchlight editor Nick Lowles pointed out that the BNP
could win two assembly seats with 8 per cent of the vote and three with 11 per
cent.

"The key thing for us to do is maximise turnout," he said.

The BNP would need just 96,000 votes to secure a seat at the 2004 37 per cent
turnout level, but would need 152,000 votes if turnout was at the 57.8 per cent
level of the 2005 general election.

Mr Dobson said: "A vote for any party other than the BNP, be it Labour or the
Monster Raving Loony Party, in any part of London, is a vote against the BNP."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           January 17, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 674 words


Now here's a thought. What if we could slash the carbon footprint of de
velopment within the emerging superpower nations of Asia? What if there was a
"super-material" that could slash energy used in heating and air conditioning?
It wouldn't solve all our problems, but it would help. And the good news is that
such a thing exists. So why have we heard so little about it? Well one reason is
Al Gore, who refused, we have learned, to address a Fortune Forum gathering in
London last month unless the announcement of the material Maerogel - a
lightweight, silicon-based insulator - was dropped. The organisers complain that
Gore's decision meant the invention was denied influential support and potential
investment from the likes of the Hinduja brothers. Gore's people say their man
was unaware until the last moment of plans for the announcement and "did not
want to be put in the position of endorsing a particular product". Isn't that an
inconvenient truth?

But we should never underestimate the capacity of technology to provide us with
solutions. Necessity is the mother of invention, said Plato. And we are never
going to survive unless we get a little crazy, said Seal. One of those thinking
outside the box is Struan Stevenson, the Scottish Euro MEP, who tabled an
amendment calling for fishermen to be compulsorily monitored with CCTV so those
guilty of overfishing can be apprehended. His amendment, which appears to
suggest equipping each vessel with a camera, was defeated in committee. But his
time will come.

After all, what would you rather watch, craggy fisherman on the seas, a-haulin'
in their catch, or the new internet show from the Daily Telegraph, starring Ann
Widdecombe? Seems easy to us, but you can think about it. Take your time.

Think too about your future. You could become a Euro election candidate for Ukip
. Help wanted for 2009. It will cost you £250 to get to the interview stage
(increased from the £100 levied in 2004), after which there are hustings from
which the successful candidates emerge. They'll be asked for another £800
contribution towards the deposit (up from £500 last time). Our friends at Ukip
Watch point out that the last intake included Robert Kilroy-Silk, whose wit and
glow continue to light up the European parliament; Tom Wise, who was subject to
contested claims about his expenses; and of course Ashley Mote, whose benefit
claims from the British taxpayer saw him sentenced to nine months' imprisonment.
This is some pedigree. Don't all rush.

So why were Donald Trump's £1bn plans for a golf resort in Aberdeenshire "called
in" for higher consideration by Alex Salmond's SNP-led Scottish government? Was
it, as was previously stated, because the scheme to build the "greatest golf
course in the world" was one of national importance? Or was it, as seemed to be
the line when Mr Salmond appeared before MSPs yesterday, because Aberdeenshire
council erred procedurally before rejecting The Donald's scheme? MSPs were
reminded how the government's chief planner Jim Mackinnon rang the council's
chief executive on the day the application was called in, and that when the
conversation commenced the planner had two of Mr Trump's henchmen in his room;
but the government says nothing irregular took place. The resort, were it to be
built, would grace Mr Salmond's own constituency, so there's no surprise that he
is keen to get the process right.

Finally, with the writers' strike having taken the gloss off the Golden Globes
and the wait for the Baftas, many were forced to look for glamour at the Adult
Video News Awards, the Oscars of the porn industry, which occurred at the
weekend. The big news, we are told, was the retirement after 15 years in the
frontline of Jenna Jameson, an iconic figure known as the Queen of Porn, whose
autobiography spent six weeks on the New York Times' bestseller list. Her
decision provoked much sadness. "I've always embraced my hardcore roots," she
once said of her career in films and TV. A stalwart and a traditionalist. The
end of an era.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 28 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                     January 17, 2008 Thursday 8:06 PM GMT

Eurosceptic MEPs to be punished

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 616 words


And so it goes on. Once again, I and a group of other MEPs asked to exercise our
right to explain, in not more than one minute, why we voted as we did. Once
again, the European Parliament chose to ignore its rulebook and deny us that
right, cutting off the session after 20 minutes. You can watch the Deputy
Speaker's explanation of why he did so here.

MEPs could be fined for taking part in the protest

Let us be clear about what is happening. We Eurosceptic MEPs have never before,
in 30 years, sought to delay the business of the House. We are doing so now only
to protest about the outrageous cancellation of the promised referendums on the
European Constitution, and about the EU's illegal implementation of large parts
of that document in anticipation of formal ratification. Our action would not
have halted parliament's business: all it would have done is to slow things down
very slightly. Had they been sensible, the federalist MEPs would have rolled
with the punch and allowed us to make our point peaceably , as Diana Wallace, a
likeable Lib Dem who happened to be in the chair yesterday, did.

But we Eurosceptics often have an unsettling effect on our colleagues. Whenever
one of us stands up, a red mist seems to descend on the integrationist majority.
They can't bring themselves to do anything we ask , however reasonable our
request, and however unreasonable they make themselves look by denying it. (See,
for example, the pompous blog by Labour MEP Richard Corbett, despite his
reported private acknowledgment that the parliamentary authorities were behaving
illicitly.

Fourteen MEPs, including my Tory colleague Roger Helmer and various UKIP
members, have now been summoned to be disciplined over their participation in
the pro-referendum demonstration last month.

Sanctions might include a (EURO)1000 fine or suspension without pay for up to
ten days. Now it is true that some Euro-MPs behaved yobbishly on that occasion:
it would have been better had they held up their "REFERENDUM" placards in
silence. But, as I recorded at the time, the tumult was sparked by the Speaker's
decision to send his officers to tear away the placards (which the poor ushers
did apologetically and with great charm). In other words, the Speaker would not
even tolerate the word "referendum" in the chamber.

Meanwhile, I am continuing to mimic Marcus Porcius Cato, who ended every speech
with a call for Carthage to be destroyed (usually recorded as "delenda est
Carthago". This afternoon, I spoke on the European Human Rights Institute, on
Europol (the federal police force), on Turkish accession and on the EU's policy
towards the South Caucasus, and each time I ended with a call for the Lisbon
Treaty to be put to the vote. I used the translation offered by my friend Harry
Mount, author of the surprise best-seller Amo, Amas, Amat and All That: Pactio
Olisipo Censenda Est. Frank Ledwidge comments on the Telegraph website that the
correct rendering is: Pactio Olisipiensis Censenda Est. Any comments from
classicists, schoolmasters or other pernickity readers would be most welcome:
I'm not planning to stop any time soon, so I might as well get the best possible
translation.

In the mean time, the European Parliament has put itself so at odds with natural
justice, with democratic principles and with its own rules of procedure that it
is doubtful whether we can still call it a parliament. Let me close with an
apposite quotation from Edmund Burke:

"Who that admires and from the heart is attached to true national assemblies
must but turn in horror and disgusts from such a profane burlesque and parody of
that sacred institution".

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            January 15, 2008 Tuesday

Comment & Debate: Diary: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 669 words


We hear too little from Godfrey Bloom, the Ukip MEP for Yorkshire and North
Lincolnshire. His podcasts cannot yet fill the void left by Alistair Cooke. But
they reveal him as a man of insight. A member of the women's committee, he
complains that talk always gravitates towards rape and prostitution, though
"none of them are in danger of the first or could earn their living from the
second". He voices sympathy for Patrick Mercer, who was sacked as defence
spokesman by David Cameron, for suggesting that some "idle" black soldiers used
racism as a cover. "Colonel Mercer put his cock in the custard," he reflects.
Even Dr John Sentamu earns rebuke for saying there is racism in the church. "I
would have thought that the fact that he was made archbishop with a face as
black as Newgate's knocker would belie that," the MEP says. He's frank and
certainly fearless. And a few other things besides.

But then we need characters as an antidote to the grey men. It means a bit of
turbulence. But so be it. A dull politician might not have been called upon to
address the suggestion that he enlivened a tiring foreign trip by sending a
handful of prostitutes up to his friend's room. But then Boris Johnson is
anything but dull. He says that Rod Liddle's recollection of the incident on
their trip to the Kenyan-Ugandan border - and as recounted at the weekend in the
Sunday Times - is fantasy, but sources close to Mr Liddle maintain that the
claim is true and is unlikely to be retracted. It was on the same trip, says the
Sunday Times, that Johnson referred to African children as "piccaninnies" and
the jaunt has since caused him nothing but trouble. Hope the tan was worth it.

We need big figures like David Irving, the historian and Holocaust denier, who
was due to give a talk at Liverpool's Liner Hotel. Alas, on hearing who the
esteemed guest would be, the hotel withdrew. We see this as the first big
disappointment since the city was named European Capital of Culture, for though
the event stood outside the official programme, it would nevertheless have
provided food for thought amid the celebrations. The choice was Paul McCartney
or Irving, and the city chose Paul McCartney. Need we say more.

Where are the bravehearts? People like Martin Daubney, editor of Loaded
magazine, who has named Kate McCann in a list of unlikely pinups. "Sensitive
one, this, but there's nothing more erotic to some than a pained woman in need
of good lovin'," the citation reads. Nothing like grief to make a woman really
up for it, wouldn't you say?

They know this within the Romantic Novelists' Association, whose members
yesterday unveiled the shortlist for the Romantic Novel of the Year 2008.
Romantic fiction is on a high at present, as are all escapist art forms. Every
time Gordon Brown predicts more doom and gloom, the fortunes of those who write
of love and yearning seem that bit brighter. So it seems an auspicious time to
celebrate all that is good about the genre. From a long list of 21 titles chosen
by the public, are six shortlisted titles, including Pillow Talk by Freya North,
featuring Petra "the girl we all dreamt of being and Arlo, the man we all wanted
to meet". Freya is delighted to have progressed so far, particularly as the book
has "squelchy sex and swear words". Jojo Moyes, who won the award in 2004, is on
the shortlist again with Silver Bay, a tale of love in a seaside town, and she
recalls that after her last victory she was asked to review the work of an
unnamed author. She decided he was a psycho and his work the least romantic
piece of writing she had ever read. The author turned out to be Saddam Hussein,
who may eventually have honed his talent. But he never got the chance.

It was taken from him by the likes of Tony Blair, who revealed this weekend how
his own departure from office forced him to get to grips with a mobile phone. He
sent an exploratory text, but the first message he received in return was "Who
are you?". George Bush was never good with names.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                January 6, 2008

Labour escape donor charges

BYLINE: Jason Allardyce

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 565 words


AN INVESTIGATION into an illegal donation to Wendy Alexander was branded a
whitewash last night after it emerged that the Labour leader will not face a
police inquiry.

Sources close to the Electoral Commission, which has spent six weeks studying
the circumstances of a £ 950 donation from Paul Green, a businessman based in
the Channel Islands, said it was highly unlikely police would be called in.

Because Green is not eligible to vote in UK elections, his donation breached
electoral law, but commissioners do not feel that criminal proceedings would be
appropriate. Instead, Alexander is expected to be asked to forfeit the value of
the donation.

Charlie Gordon, the Labour MSP and fundraiser who was forced to resign as the
party's transport spokesman for his part in the scandal, has given evidence to
the commission "under caution". However, Alexander was required only to provide
written evidence of how much she knew about the money.

Green has not been interviewed because the commission can require only
recipients of illegal donations to give evidence.

The commission is expected to announce within the next fortnight that it is not
referring the matter to the police.

"The commission's view is that that would be a heavy-handed approach for this
kind of scenario," said a source.

"They take a tough line on breaches of the rules, and have the power to refer
matters to the police for a police investigation where that's appropriate, but
they're stressing that if you look at the history of what's happened in the past
with other breaches you'll see what the normal process is.

"They have pointed out that they have only once referred a matter to the police
and that this is certainly not the only path open to them."

Labour is instead likely to be required to forfeit the £ 950 donation, which
will go into a government bank account.

A similar punishment was applied last year to the Liberal Democrats after the
party accepted a £ 40,000 donation from Christopher Nicholson at a time when he
was not on the electoral register.

The commission also announced last year that it was to apply to the courts for
an order to require the UK Independence party to forfeit £ 367,697 of
impermissible donations.

However, opposition politicians warned that such a sanction in the Alexander
case would severely undermine the credibility of the commission and encourage
other politicians to break the rules in future.

Roseanna Cunningham, the SNP MSP, said: "The danger is we're going to get into a
situation where when it comes to breaking the law there is one rule for one set
of people and another rule entirely for others. If you shoplift, the fact that
you've only shoplifted £ 50 rather than £ 500 doesn't get you off."

"Frankly there is very little incentive for any political party to strictly obey
the law if breaking the law doesn't attract any sanctions," she said.

Murdo Fraser, the deputy Scottish Tory leader, said the commission's ruling
would do little to restore Alexander's reputation.

"Wendy Alexander has been left looking like a lame duck and it will take a long
time for her to regain credibility, if it ever happens. If a leader is so
ignorant of the rules you have to question her suitability for the position."

A Scottish Labour spokesman said: "Wendy Alexander has fully co-operated with
the Electoral Commission and is confident that it will clear her of any
intentional wrongdoing."

LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             January 6, 2008 Sunday

A last stand for democracy in Strasbourg

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 688 words


BEFORE CHRISTMAS, almost entirely unreported here in Britain, the proceedings of
the European Parliament were brought to a halt by an unprecedented uproar. Just
after the EU's leaders had flown back from signing their new treaty in Lisbon,
the Portuguese prime minister Jose Socrates, as the EU's acting "president'',
was in Strasbourg for a ceremony to celebrate the signing of the European
Charter of Fundamental Rights, part of the Constitution rejected by French and
Dutch voters in 2005.

During his speech, some 50 MEPs of both Left and Right and from several
countries, following a plan made by the Nordic Green Left group and supported by
several British Conservative and UK Independence Party MEPs, unfurled banners
emblazoned with the word "Referendum''. The protest was intended to bear
dignified, silent witness on behalf of all those countries, including Britain,
that are now to be denied referendums on the treaty. But when ushers were
ordered to remove the placards and other MEPs began shouting abuse, some of the
demonstrators began shouting back.

The scene became so unedifying that the television coverage of the proceedings
was cut off. Several group leaders made pompous speeches deploring the "football
hooligan'' behaviour of those MEPs who, as one put it, "had shown contempt for
the dignity of Parliament''. The ceremony concluded with the majority of MEPs
standing reverentially to attention for the "European anthem'' - which is one of
the very few items dropped from the rejected Constitution to justify the
pretence that the virtually identical new treaty is somehow a completely
different document.

Nothing like this had ever happened in the Parliament, but never before has the
EU's ruling elite shown such contempt for those they govern - all those voters
who were promised referendums and have been denied them. Beginning with the
decision of the European Council last June that there could be no further debate
on the wording of the treaty which it alone had decided - itself an
unprecedented flouting of the rules - it has been an astonishing coup d'etat.

All we have now is the prospect of one national parliament after another meekly
rubber-stamping the treaty on the orders of their governments, and the
Constitution-by-any-other-name, another mighty step towards imposing on us all a
new supranational government, will be in force. In effect, since we will not be
able to dismiss our new government or call it to account, we will be living in a
one-party state.

The most humiliating charade of all is unfolding here in Britain, where Gordon
Brown has promised no less than three months of parliamentary debate on the
treaty he signed so shamefacedly in Lisbon. This will be an entirely futile
exercise, since MPs will not even officially be given a comprehensible copy of
the treaty they are discussing.

It has deliberately been made as hard to follow as possible, by redrafting the
constitution into a bewildering mass of amendments to previous treaties, which
are virtually meaningless out of context. And nothing our MPs say can change a
word of the treaty, since it is already signed and set in stone. In this pitiful
fashion what is known as the Mother of Parliaments will sign its own death
warrant.

David Miliband, the child who has become our Foreign Secretary, sententiously
lectures Pakistan and Kenya on how they must restore democracy, and at the same
time he is happy to say goodbye to the last vestiges of it here at home.

Mr Brown grandiloquently promises to "consult'' on drawing up a "constitution''
for the National Health Service, while he aims to conceal from the British
people the fact that they are being railroaded into a genuine and infinitely
more important constitution on which he is not consulting them at all.

Then, when a handful of MEPs resort to the only means they can find to protest
that we are being denied our right to consultation - as promised to us by Mr
Brown himself - they are condemned as a mindless rabble, showing "contempt for
the dignity of Parliament''.

How strangely, as we enter 2008, has truth become inverted. Truly we are moving
into a dark time.

LOAD-DATE: January 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 28 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            January 5, 2008 Saturday

I can see ... a sucker born every minute;
Will Neptune move into your belly button? Will Saturn ring your doorbell and run
away? Find out in Mystic Deb's 2008 (crystal balls) Almanac

BYLINE: Deborah Ross

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 1293 words


HERE, then, are your horoscope forecasts for 2008 as predicted by us, The
Non-Domestic Goddess Astrology Circle, who are fully trained in telling you what
you want to hear while wearing scarves tied psychically under our chins.

The Non-Domestic Goddess Astrology Circle (NDGAC) always meets in the first week
of January, once the Non-Domestic Goddess Review Of The Year Circle has finished
listing, say, the least essential albums of 2007, and has disbanded.

The NDGAC also provides a premium forecast phone service because, aside from
anything else, we saw you coming.

This service can be contacted on 0800-AstroCircle. This should not be confused
with Family Circle, a supermarket magazine containing recipes for the freezer
whoopee! Although calls cost £692 a minute, at least we are not Justin Toper,
who has very bad hair. Also, we are good. We can even forecast that any call
will cost you a shocking amount, as they never take less than four hours, even
when the lines are closed.

Here we are:

Aries With Saturn in the ascendancy and Jupiter ringing your doorbell and then
running away, this is not a good year for procrastination, which should be left
to next year, when Saturn will be in Shoreham-by-Sea and Jupiter will have moved
to the Costa Brava. A new phase begins from April, which may or may not be a
good thing.

Your enthusiastic and forceful opinions will keep certain people on their toes,
particularly ballet dancers and gymnasts.

Taurus While initially outraged, you soon realise that being called an 'unfit
mother' has little to do with what shape you are in. To celebrate, you will wear
a very short skirt, binge drink Cream Cuties in the town centre and have sex
with a stranger in an alley. Expect a 'surprise', probably in or around
September, when you go to the toilet and have yet another baby. With Pluto on
the cusp, there is every chance Aries Taurus H that, once you get back into
shape, you will do the same thing over again.

Gemini With Saturn now ringing the doorbell and running away, you will finally
realise that if life gives you lemons, you do not have to make lemonade. You can
bitch like hell about how miserable you are, and how you were never breast-fed.
You will also question the prevailing orthodoxy, asking yourself things like:
'How can life be a bowl of cherries, when the cherry season is so short?' On a
brighter note, you discover that while you can't make an omelette without
breaking eggs, you can make a decent stew.

Cancer The pendulum of your love life will swing slowly towards the good as you
discover the great joys of internet porn, while pretending to look at watches on
eBay or do an Ocado shop. While the rest of the family may well grumble about
Gemini Cancer your bad timekeeping and the lack of groceries, you will not be
able to find it in your heart to care, particularly as both Lusty Lola and Busty
Betsy are online and waiting for you right now.

Capricorn Your staunch 'my country, right or wrong' patriotism will be sorely
tested when you discover you have been French all along.

Although this does explain certain aspects of your behaviour like cycling around
in a stripy jumper with onions around your neck, and always kissing with tongues
you will be shocked and dismayed as well as ejected from UKIP. Your friends and
family will be supportive but will not like you anymore all the same, and may
even decide to buy their onions elsewhere.

Aquarius With Neptune moving into your belly button at the end of Capricorn
Aquarius

February, you will spend much of March navel-gazing and thinking: how did it do
that? Expect Capricorn to start circling your Venus and having a good sniff from
July. Although shouting 'be off, and leave my Venus alone' is rarely effective,
chasing Capricorn with a rolled-up newspaper may do the trick. Financially, you
will have few worries unless you do, and your health will be good unless you get
ill.

Sagittarius Like all Sagittarians, you are kindness itself as well as
phenomenally patient. However, if they don't come up with the money by the end
of this month, kill the twins and their kitten. If they do come up with the
money, don't kill the twins and their kitten.

Just rough them up a bit. This year, you will be ready to accept changes to the
living room, and possibly even a new sofa.

Scorpio With Mercury doing something or other and then the opposite, sit tight
this year and don't do anything at all, as it might give you cancer. Although
melancholic by nature, you're right to think that while everyone enjoys a nice
bowl of soup, surely there is more to life. You are also right to think that
anyone who reads their horoscope is a loon, although this does not apply to you.
Beware the 12th of May, which will almost certainly lead to the 13th. Similarly,
beware four o'clock, which can quickly lead to ten past.

Libra When a 13-year-old girl disappears from the outskirts of Manchester in
June, your Libran psychic powers will be called upon by the police.

After sniffing the girl's scarf, you will see a river, beech trees and a tall,
thickset man wearing a hat Scorpio Libra and accompanied by an animal. A dog,
perhaps? At the time, the girl will be trapped underneath a collapsed shed at
the bottom of her garden, but as you will say to the police, while momentarily
forgetting you are Libran with psychic powers: how was I to know? The police
will thank you for wasting their valuable time but you will not get a
commendation.

Pisces You will get rid of your muffin top in time for summer by sewing yourself
into a bag of starving ferrets.

You will, however, still have a big bum. Give gladly and look after yourself
well in the absence of anyone else doing it. It's important not to soak up other
people's worries, so make this the year you tell others to get stuffed.

Once in a while, try to hide yourself away from the hustle of everyday life and
its commitments to recover your inner peace. Should you struggle to find your
inner peace, check behind the sofa cushions.

Leo You will start hearing voices in your head, and this voice will ask: why are
you reading this rubbish? You may even be hearing it right now. If so, it can
only be because you have forgotten to take your medication.

Virgo There is every chance that, this year, stuff will happen to you, your
phone will go, cars will drive past your house and you will be happy unless you
are sad. Should this prediction not come true, we will eat our scarf.

Want a decent column? Write it yourself THE Non-Domestic Goddess would like to
wish a Happy New Year to all the readers who contacted her last year as well as,
most generously, all the readers who didnt and are lazy creeps who dont deserve
any felicitations of any kind. The Non-Domestic Goddess appreciates all
feedback, particularly if it contains an idea she can rip off and pass off as
her own while getting another column out of it. The Non-Domestic Goddess would
like to ask readers to work harder at this in the New Year as standards could be
higher and some of the ideas are plain rubbish. The Non-Domestic Goddess would
also like to request that you do not copyright your ideas, as what use to her is
that? The Non-Domestic Goddess has only to see the copyright symbol to lose
interest altogether. The Non-Domestic Goddess looks forward to you, in effect,
writing this column for her, which will be cheaper than getting a Polish person
to do it.Lastly, the Non-Domestic Goddess would like to say that should any of
the above predictions fail to happen, or you are otherwise not satisfied, the
Astrology Circle will refund all your monies in full. All refunds will be made
within ten days following the beginning of a retrograde motion by both the sun
and the moon as Mars plays the harmonica. You cant say we didnt see you coming.

LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Union leader Vic Feather and Harold Wilson in 1969

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved
