
                               1 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                         The Sunday Telegraph (London)

                               November 30, 2008

PROFILE ROWAN ATKINSON;
Will the latest Fagin leave us crying out for more?;
Despite his success with Blackadder and Mr Bean, the rubber-faced comedian still
divides public opinion. Will his new role in Oliver! settle the argument once
and for all, asks William Langley

BYLINE: William Langley

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1161  words


Rowan Atkinson is, unarguably, one of the world's wealthiest and most successful
comedians. In Britain, however, mention of his name still inspires heated
debate: is he actually funny? For, despite his millions and his global appeal,
Atkinson splits opinion. For every fan, there's someone who wishes that he had
stuck to his original vocation of science, hiding his rubbery mug away behind
clouds of chemical vapour. Then there are those who find some parts of his
oeuvre incomparable, and other parts unbearable. So where will his latest
venture, as he prepares to take to the West End stage as a central character in
Britain's greatest musical, fit in?

The success, or otherwise, of Oliver!, Lionel Bart's 1960 masterpiece, depends
overwhelmingly on the performance of Fagin. Ron Moody, who set a benchmark with
the original production, calls the part "tragicomic from first to last'', and
remembers nights of cold sweats and inter-cast arguments before he hit the right
balance.

Small boy: "These sausages are mouldy.''

Fagin: "Shut up and drink your gin.''

Moody was 45 when he took the role, and already had a decent background in
musical theatre. Atkinson will be 54 by opening night, well past the age at
which, he admits: "You tend to lose your comic authority.'' This seems a harsh
self-judgment from a man who has been at the top of British comedy for three
decades, bringing us the gloriously subversive Not The Nine O'Clock News, the
ingenious and ground-breaking Blackadder, and, well... Mr Bean.

At least Rowan knows the part. Three years ago, he gamely pitched into his son's
school production of Oliver!, taking the role of Fagin for a week-long run. He
liked it so much that, when Cameron Mackintosh proposed reviving the show, Rowan
volunteered his services. Previews begin early next month, and he plans to stay
with the show for six months.

What could have drawn him to it? Atkinson is famously inscrutable - such
interviews as he gives revealing almost nothing about the inner workings of his
life. Yet two things spring to mind. In Dickens's novel Oliver Twist, Fagin is
the miserly ringmaster of a gang of young London street thieves. Atkinson, too,
has been accused of being tight with his money. A while back, an interviewer in
New Zealand put it to him like this: "Umm, I've heard, well, this is about you
personally, I guess, but I've heard you are somewhat famed for being first out
of the cab and last into the bar... what I'm saying is that you count your
pennies very carefully.'' Rowan was so upset he cancelled the rest of his
interviews for the day.

Then there is the touchy topic of religious intolerance (in the novel, Fagin is
frequently referred to as simply "the Jew''). Atkinson has been a leading voice
of opposition to the Government's proposals to outlaw "incitement to religious
hatred'', which, he argues, would in effect criminalise the telling of Catholic,
Jewish or (the clear object of the exercise) Muslim jokes.

"Quite a few of my own sketches,'' he says, "would be in conflict with the
law.'' Including, presumably, the one in his old Not The Nine O'Clock News
routine that showed a film clip of thousands of worshippers kneeling outside a
mosque as a voice intoned: "And the search for the Ayatollah Khomeini's contact
lens continues.''

It has been a long career (Not the Nine... first hit our screens 30 years ago),
and yet Atkinson seems to have remained completely immune from the temptations
of celebrity life.

"Rowan has not one ounce of showbusiness in him,'' Stephen Fry, the best man at
Atkinson's wedding, once said: "It is as if God had an extra jar of comic
talent, and for a joke gave it to a nerdy, anoraked northern chemist.''

Either the jar was a big one or the stuff inside it went an unusually long way,
for Atkinson has not only stayed the course, but made more money from comedy
than anyone else in the business. His personal fortune has been estimated at
close to  pounds 100 million, and with his wife, Sunetra, he lives in
considerable style with homes in Oxfordshire and Chelsea.

To be strictly accurate, Rowan was never a chemist. He was born in Gosforth,
near Newcastle, the third son of Eric Atkinson, a well-to-do farmer. One
brother, Rupert, went on to run a theatre in Doncaster, while the other, Rodney,
became a Euro-sceptic author and activist who left the UK Independence Party
after concluding that it had become too sweet on Brussels, and once attempted to
have Douglas Hurd, the former Conservative foreign secretary, arrested for
treason.

Rowan went to the Chorister School in Durham, where Tony Blair was also a pupil,
and later to Oxford, where he took an MSc at Queens College, and planned on
doing something immensely clever in electronics.

Instead, he made friends with fellow undergraduate Richard Curtis, the budding
screenwriter, who would later help to create Atkinson's best known characters,
Mr Bean and Blackadder, the latter of which will be the subject of a Christmas
documentary by the BBC. The first Mr Bean film, entitled simply Bean, made a
bug-eyed, socially incapacitated simpleton with a 1950s-style wardrobe, a
snot-coloured Mini and a girlfriend called Irma Gobb, one of Britain's most
successful cultural exports, eventually being shown in more than 70 countries.

For a while, Atkinson attempted to prevent the programme being screened in
Italy, where he took his family holidays, but the arrival of satellite
television scuppered the ban, and now, in his favourite vine-wreathed
trattorias, as everywhere else, Signor Bean must put up with being recognised.

Yet there's recognition and recognition. For everyone who considers Atkinson's
magnum opus, Blackadder - a historical sitcom encompassing the Middle Ages, the
Elizabethan era, the Regency and the First World War, through the eyes of a
cowardly, cynical English dynasty - one of the most intelligent and dramatically
fluent television series ever made, there is someone who can't take Mr Bean at
all.

"A man may fight for many things,'' Edmund Blackadder proclaims in Blackadder
the Third. "His country, his friends, his principles, the glistening tear on the
cheek of a golden child. But personally, I'd mud-wrestle my own mother for a ton
of cash, an amusing clock and a sack of French porn.'' Mr Bean tends to say
nothing very much at all.

His hopes of making it big in America were ended by the New York Times's
powerful theatre critic, Frank Rich, the "Butcher of Broadway'', whose panning
of Atkinson's 1986 stage show led to its closure after 11 performances.

Sore? Not really. If anything, Rowan is harder on himself, recently declaring
that the only film he was really proud of being in was Four Weddings and A
Funeral. He admits that he isn't very funny without a script, rehearsals and
retakes.

Now, as the star of Oliver!, he has to dance without falling over, and sing
without struggling to get the words out, and, above all, inspire his audience to
say: "Please, Sir, can I have some more?''

LOAD-DATE: November 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                          November 26, 2008 Wednesday

Comment & debate: Diary: Hugh Muir

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 680 words


Because some things cannot wait, it was good to be a part of the Environment
Agency's annual conference this week. It was all top stuff - about waste,
pollution and renewable energy. Lord Smith, the chairman, talked about his call
for the Green New Deal to assist the UK economy, while others pressed for
further and better action to combat the scourge of climate change. One of the
sponsors of the event was the oil company Shell, who hosted a session on
"innovation and technology", with vice-president Paul Snaith explaining "how
business and government can share risk in the commercialisation of technology".
And as everyone was being nice, no one made too much of the fact that in recent
months action by the regulator has seen Shell fined £18,000 (that was July) for
polluting ground waters in Grimsby, despoilment that will cost £5m to clean up;
and £10,000 (September) for diesel spills in Hampshire lakes. In terms of
etiquette, it was just as well.

The fearlessness of information commissioner Richard Thomas is surely beyond
question now. Robust, independent, oblivious to government pressure, he was at
it again this week, challenging the cabinet secretary over secret minutes
containing the legal advice that took us to war in Iraq. And so we think it
highly unlikely that he will be influenced by the government's decision,
announced also this week, to hike his salary to £140,000 - a 40% pay rise. But
no harm in trying.

Perhaps a better approach is that taken towards Jenny Watson, the new chair of
the Electoral Commission, who might have hoped to inherit the £150,000 salary
enjoyed by her predecessor Sam Younger, but has instead seen MPs whittle it down
to £100,000. Ukip's Bob Spink wants it reduced further, to £63,000. Jenny may
note that MPs in general and parties facing investigation have little time for
the Electoral Commission. If she didn't know it before, she does now.

What can we say about Shami Chakrabarti. Earlier this year she fought to kill
off the government's 42-day detention plans. And now we see she is fighting for
the reinstatement of Jon Gaunt, the shock-jock and Sun columnist sacked by
TalkSport for calling a councillor a Nazi. Before his little difficulty, he
derided our Shami as "the most dangerous woman in Britain". But, ever helpful,
she points out that he may now have some redress under the Human Rights Act.
That particular piece of legislation is not to his taste, but strange things
happen in a crisis. Allegiances shift; tastes change.

As the search for a new poet laureate hots up, the culture department reveals
that it is "consulting widely in the poetry sector"; the bosses, the unions -
everybody.

Disappointment for all who attended the Richmond upon Thames annual literature
festival expecting to hear Professor AC Grayling discuss the nature of duty vs
pleasure, the theme of his new book The Choice of Hercules. He didn't show up,
leaving many with the impression that pleasure had won out. In fact, the
thinker's thinker had the dates mixed up. Clever, stupid, it happens.

Finally, though many controversies plagued the Blair premiership, the claim that
he sat and watched Jackie Milburn play from the Gallowgate End of Newcastle
United's stadium seemed curiously damaging. It revealed, one thought at the
time, a longing to be viewed as clubbable and - as there were no seats in the
Milburn era - a willingness to play fast and loose with the truth. But too late
perhaps. The former prime minister emerges as a man who was wronged, for last
week, when he returned to the north-east, he was staggered to receive an
unsought confession from the regional newspaper, the Sunday Sun. You never said
it, they admitted in a videotaped interview. It was us. "I used to get so much
stick over that," said a close to speechless Blair, whose only reaction to the
news that the reporter responsible has now left the paper was a
uncharacteristically terse: "Pleased to hear it." Iraq, PFIs, "boom and bust"
still stand, but on this one it wasn't him guv. It was the Sunday Sun wot done
it. Let history record.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 25, 2008

This attack on the Electoral Commission chair is squalid and spiteful

LENGTH: 442 words


But I feel compelled to come to its defence over what looks like a negative and
spiteful campaign in parliament to slash the salary of the new chair, Jenny
Watson, from £150,000 to £63,000 a year being waged by Bob Spink, the former
Conservative and now Ukip MP.

The Commons authorities have already bowed to Spink by cutting her salary from
£150,000 to £100,000. As a result she will work three days a week instead of the
five-day week of the present chairman, Sam Younger.

But the rolling over of Sir Peter Viggers, head of the Commons committee that
recommends her appointment to parliament means that MPs have scented blood.

Like of pack of hounds who see a vixen on the run, the government seems quite
relaxed to leave her wounded in a ditch while MPs take it out on the elections
watchdog. I wonder why. Spink tells me that he raised the matter because he
thinks the Electoral Commission is a poor body that fails to police electoral
returning officers, fails to increase voting turnout and is slow on issues such
as votes at 16.

He also thinks that her appointment is one of the "jobs for the boys", like the
recent pay rise for Richard Thomas, the information commissioner, from £98,000
to £140,000.

"£63,000, a MP's salary, is money enough" says Spink. In that he is supported by
David Taylor, the Labour MP for Leicestershire North West, who makes it clear
that this is not a personal issue against Watson. All this goes down very well
in Essex by the way.

Personal or not, I suspect another agenda. MPs hate the Electoral Commission
because it polices their spending and is responsible for a lot of bad headlines
when MPs fail to declare their expenses.

Victims include Peter Hain, the former work and pensions secretary, over
£100,000 of undeclared expenses on his failed deputy leadership campaign; and
Ukip itself, which is in serious trouble for not declaring a raft of party
spending. So why not bash the impudent inquirer - however flawed - who causes
all this angst?

There is, however, a far better way. If the Electoral Commission has its
failings, the right venue to challenge them is at a detailed hearing by the
Commons public administration committee, which can explore their record.

Drag Watson before them and make her sweat over the commission's omissions.

What is not permissible, in my view, is to take potshots at Watson, who by all
accounts was a fearless chair of the Equal Opportunities Commission, a
campaigner for equal pay and maternity rights and not afraid of going to court
on behalf of workers.

I suspect she might be quite a good chair of the commission. Parliament does
itself no good in sniping at her in this squalid way.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               4 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 24, 2008

No action against Cambridge BNP member

LENGTH: 175 words


The University of Cambridge has said it will not take action against one of its
head engineers, who was outed last week as a member of the British National
Party.

Arthur Nightingale, the head experimental design engineer at the university's
centre for industrial photonics, feared dismissal after his name was one of
those on the list of BNP members published on the internet last week.

But a university spokesman said no action would be taken on the grounds that the
political affiliations of members of staff were "a matter for them provided they
do not affect their performance in the workplace".

This would include not promoting the party within the university or trying to
recruit students, he said.

Nightingale claimed to have joined the party after Gordon Brown refused to hold
a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

He told the university's student paper Varsity that he "didn't have a choice but
to look to the BNP or UKIP" because all the three main parties were pro-Europe.

But he claimed not to be active within the party despite holding membership.

LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               5 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               November 23, 2008
                                U.K. 1st Edition

It's so hard to swallow!;
BUSHELL ON THE BOX

BYLINE: GARRY BUSHELL

SECTION: COLUMNS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 26

LENGTH: 423 words


WHY? Why bring David Van Div and Timmy-Bloody-Mallett to the jungle?

One is a malignant grump; the other's a cackling chump.

Timmy-Bloody-Mallett, the most punch-able man on the planet.

He's "irrepressible", say ITV. Yeah.

Like a Somali pirate raid and marginally less welcome. Which is why this is
perfect casting - finally we have people worth torturing.

Don't get me wrong. I'm as happy to watch Kilroy up to his neck in snakes and
slime as the next man - especially if the next man is UKIP boss Nigel Farage.
But the old rascal was starting to look good. He's shown grit, guts and
determination. He's no fun at all.

Much better to inflict insect hell on diddy Van Div with his giant ego, fear and
sense of entitlement.

The two twerps have brought edge to a show which took a while to kick in.
Booking Paddick to entertain us was as sensible as opening a John Sergeant
school of dance.

And the only sexual spark so far has been George Takei lusting over Joe Swash's
rear. Nice guy Swashy is clear favourite. I just wish he'd stop squealing like a
stuck pig.

Nicola McLean may pip him at the post, though?what magnificent bazookas!

Working with her must be like being bombarded with volleyballs. Nicola showed
determination forged at a hundred brutal Sales Day confrontations to beat Joe in
the I-Scream Van challenge.

"Nicola swallowed everything, " noted Esther. And not for the first time, the
nation quipped as one.

Esther, when not straining water through her pants, is a likeable and
surprisingly vulnerable old stick.

And Martina is a proper star, delighting us with cruel lesbian gags like: "I
hear the only reason men name their penises is so that they don't have a total
stranger making all the decisions for them."

You suspect she has more in her pants than Paddick does. Talk about Knackered of
The Yard. How is this pillock a celebrity? Carly's talents are known only to Joe
Cole. Simon is finally coming good after displaying all the presence of a
hologram for days.

And Dani Behr is said to be here too but how can you tell?

Highlight? Gollum-eyed TV legend George singing the Olly Olly Olly song. Well
done, Swashy.

Joe to win! Iceland need a new face in their ads.

.JOE revealed he calls his manhood "Alfie" - except after he's been in that
ice-cold pool; then he calls it "Al".

.QUOTE of the week: "We've had five nights of hell-holes" - Dani.

Sounds like Roy Cropper's honeymoon.

.I FEEL sorry for the crocs. Bad enough to get your bits cut off for TV but then
to find out Esther's got bigger teeth than you?that just adds insult to injury.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DEEP THROAT: Sexy Nicola "swallowing everything" during last week's
task

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                               November 23, 2008

Business & Media: Media: Media Diary

SECTION: OBSERVER BUSINESS PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 522 words


At the cutting edge?

Speculation is growing that News International will announce swingeing job cuts
in January. James Murdoch has had Boston Consulting Group in for months to
identify cost savings and its clipboard-wielding analysts are preparing to
deliver a report within the month. Production jobs are believed to be most at
risk, and there are fears that up to 10 per cent of journalist posts could go.
However, one News International hack certain to escape any cull is Clodagh
Hartley, a star at the Sun who recently joined the paper's lobby desk. Rumour
has it that she could be transferred to the parliamentary team at its sister
paper, the Times . You read it here first.

Friends of Jeff

Captains of industry and politicians are rushing to ensure they have the ear of
Telegraph editor-at-large Jeff Randall, pictured, as he prepares to join Sky
News as its new business supremo. Randall had breakfast with the Chancellor last
week and, contrary to the information relayed in these pages last week, he also
broke bread with Alistair Darling's opposite number George Osborne earlier this
month. Apologies to all.

Darling's whistle stop

The day before he met Randall, Darling gave a speech in London to mark Global
Entrepreneurship Week, arriving early to do a live BBC interview. After two easy
questions, he was asked a slightly trickier one, at which point a loud whistle
was blown on stage to start a 'speednetworking' session. It blew the BBC's audio
equipment and ended the interview, prompting Darling to remark that he should
host 'speednetworking' sessions more often.

A sect at the Speccie

An interesting aside from media commentator Stephen Glover in the New Statesman
, which has regained its swagger under former Observer man Jason Cowley. Glover
uses the title's diary to attack the Spectator , for which he used to write a
column on the press, claiming it has become 'a bizarre sect that throws
outlandish parties', usually hosted by publisher Andrew Neil. Neil, says Glover,
'makes Jay Gatsby look like a curmudgeonly recluse'. Your call, Andrew.

Strictly tongue in cheek

At least the UK Independence Party has a sense of humour. . . An email to
journalists last week 'revealed' the 'dark forces' that led to the resignation
of John Sergeant from Strictly Come Dancing. Apparently it's all Alastair
Campbell's doing, with a little help from Lord Mandelson and his Russian
friends. Campbell forced the BBC to create a vacancy after Mandy said he'd love
to appear on the show, according to Ukip, which points out, rather
mischievously, that: 'Not by chance, Mr Sergeant's dancing PARTNER is from the
former USSR.' The email is marked 'not for publication', but journalistic
scruples must be set aside over matters of national importance.

Half-board to tears

The property show is dead, long live the credit-crunch property show! The BBC is
seeking homeowners who are turning their properties into 'B&B businesses' in
order to beat the downturn. 'Are you willing to have your B&B plans scrutinised
by a BBC expert?' an advert asks: 'IF SO, WE WANT TO HEAR FROM YOU NOW.' The
words 'horse', 'flogging' and 'dead' spring to mind.


LOAD-DATE: November 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 23, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU translators spell waste;
Putting documents into 23 languages costs GBP 1bn

BYLINE: By Ted Jeory

SECTION: NEWS; 38

LENGTH: 435  words


BRUSSELS bureaucrats are spending GBP 1billion every year translating EU
documents that hardly anyone reads.

The enormous bill is being footed by European taxpayers and is equivalent to
almost a quarter of Britain's annual contribution to the EU budget.

Britons are not even benefiting from the work. Because of a shortage of native
English translators, it is being farmed out to translators in other countries.

An army of translators and interpreters based in Brussels and Luxembourg spend
each day converting thousands of obscure speeches, documents and briefing papers
into the community's 23 official languages.

According to the EU's own figures an in-house translator costs an average GBP
100,000 a year to employ and translation costs about GBP 150 per page, more than
double commercial rates.

The EU admits that the spending is in danger of spiralling out of control and
has promised to tighten rules about what should be translated.

However, the member states have continued to insist that reams of Parliamentary
speeches, press releases, committee minutes and other documents are made
available for their citizens to pore over.

Millions of pounds are even being spent translating documents into Irish Gaelic
because Dublin said its citizens faced discrimination.

European legislation is also to be translated into Welsh, it was announced this
week, a language spoken by just 600,000 people.

EU documents are also rewritten into Maltese for Malta, although English is an
official language there.

Huge sums of money are being spent on the Europa website, an EU database in 23
languages that attracts less than 0.5 per cent of the BBC's internet site.

The EU's Court of Auditors ordered cut backs in 2006 after an inquiry revealed
that member states were ordering translations even when they knew they would
never be used. But the work has continued to balloon.

In the European Commission alone, just one of several EU institutions, staff and
freelancers are forecast to translate 1.8 million pages this year, up 38 per
cent in three years. UKIP's Euro MP Gerard Batten said: "The amount that's being
wasted on translating stuff that just goes straight into the bin is outrageous."
Liz Robertson, the President of the European Union of Translation Companies,
said: "The concept of promoting multilingualism is a good thing, but as an EU
citizen you do wonder about how much is spent." An EU spokeswoman said however
that the spending, one per cent of the total EU budget, was "good value".

Britons should be more sympathetic to the "poor Lithuanian", she said, who spoke
no English but who wanted to examine EU documents.

LOAD-DATE: November 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            November 23, 2008 Sunday
                                  Eire Edition

MY DAD'S A DICKHEAD SAYS KILROY-SILK'S SON;
EXCLUSIVE SMARMY STAR HAS NEVER MET LOVECHILD DANNY 'HE PREACHED FAMILY
VALUES..BUT IGNORED ME'

BYLINE: BY MATT BLAKE AND GRANT HODGSON

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 747 words


I'M A Celebrity star Robert Kilroy-Silk was branded a "dickhead"

and an "idiot" last night - by the lovechild he abandoned before he was born.

Danny Beauchamp, 23, is the son that former chat show host Kilroy has never met
and tried for years to keep secret.

He only knows his father through seeing him on TV - but says that's enough to
convince him Kilroy isn't worth knowing.

Danny - a male model whose middle name is Robert - says: "I dislike him probably
for the same reason 99 per cent of the population dislike him. Because he is an
idiot.

"I have no interest in my dad whatsoever."

And he says he can't bear to watch I'm A Celebrity, on which his abrasive father
has branded Carly Zucker "trouble" after upsetting her on the first night and
rowed with Timmy Mallett for laughing at him during a Bushtucker Trial.

He has also clashed with ex-pop star David Van Day, telling him he felt "no
guilt" when newcomers Van Day and Mallett were left to fester in a cage
overnight when they entered the show.

Kilroy, who used to preach family values during his daytime TV show, had a brief
affair with Danny's mum Hilary, a teacher of art therapy.

THE SECRET AFFAIR

The fling began when married father-of two Kilroy was invited by her to her
students' art show when he was a Labour MP in 1984.

But when Hilary fell pregnant, rat Kilroy deserted her and scuttled back to wife
Jan, who he has now been married to for 45 years.

Jan forgave him and Kilroy paid Hilary pounds 200-a-month maintenance - on
condition she kept Danny's birth a secret.

Kilroy's children with Jan - son Dominic and daughter Natasha - were aged 16 and
14 when he had the affair.

Danny's existence only became known when he was 10 after Hilary angrily hit out
at two-faced Kilroy for hosting an episode of his BBC1 show on ... absent
parents.

Danny, who grew up in a housing association flat in Islington, North London,
while Kilroy flitted between luxury homes in Buckinghamshire and Spain, says he
has no wish to have any contact with his father.

And he says his anger towards Kilroy - who has said children need "love and
affection and their dad to be there for them"- is motivated by his smarmy
demeanour on TV rather than the way he was abandoned by him.

He told the Irish Sunday Mirror: "It's got nothing to do with the way he's
treated me. It's from what I see on TV. He comes across as a dickhead. And I
definitely don't want to hear from him, speak to him or read about him.

"I only really know him from TV.

"I think it's totally irrelevant to my life right now." Danny's mum Hilary, now
60, told him the truth about his dad when he was nine.

Star-truck Danny then began carrying around a photograph of the TV star to show
off to his friends.

Hilary publicly urged Kilroy to see Danny, saying: "I just want Robert to face
up to his responsibilities and publicly accept that my boy is his son."

But later, she revealed sadly: "Robert has never shown any interest in his son's
welfare.

LOVECHILD TO MALE MODEL

"He has responded negatively to Danny's requests to establish some kind of
relationship with him."

Model Danny, who has inherited his father's good looks, is signed to Select, the
agency that helped Kate Moss find international fame.

But despite modelling for top designers, including Calvin Klein and Gucci in
capital cities across the world, Danny says that, unlike his dad, he hates
having his photograph taken.

He added: "I can't stand having pictures taken of me, it just happens to be my
job.

"It takes up a lot of my time and I'm more or less living out of a suitcase at
the moment.

"It is back and forth and I don't really have a base. I guess I'll keep doing
this until something else comes along."

Kilroy was born Robert Michael Silk in Birmingham in 1942. Speaking about his
own father, he has said: "I never knew my father.

It is something I've always regretted."

He became Labour MP for Ormskirk, Lancs, in February 1974, and later Knowsley
North in Liverpool. He gave up his seat in 1986 after battling the city's Labour
- militants and went into television.

OUTBURST ENDS TV CAREER

In 2004, he was embroiled in a massive row after using a newspaper column to
brand Muslims "limb amputators", "suicide bombers" and "women repressors".

The article also brought the curtain down on his long-running TV chat show.

He then went back into politics - standing successfully for the UK Independence
Party at the 2004 Euro elections.

He then quit the party the following year to found the short-lived,
anti-European Veritas party.

LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Absent father ...Kilroy-Silk; Kilroy after his Bushtucker Trial; DANNY
AGED 23; ROBERT AGED 28; Brief affair... Danny's mother Hilary

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 22, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

I DID IT DAI'S WAY!;
For decades Sir Dai Llewellyn -- the Seducer of the Valleys -- has been high
society's madcap court jester. Here, in this bittersweet interview from his
hospice bed, he admits his years of partying are finally killing him. But given
the chance, he'd do it all again . .

BYLINE: Natalie Clarke

SECTION: Pg. 36

LENGTH: 2101 words


SIR Dai Llewellyn is reflecting on an England that has gone from us, the England
he belonged to and whose passing he laments. 'I was lucky enough to catch the
tail-end of stylish British society,' he says. 'It was a time when there were
things that were more important than reality shows.

'You could read a diary like Alan Clark's and there was some really spicy stuff
in it. Now you just get some boring soap star who wants to tell us their boring
story. People like me went out of fashion, but it didn't stop me living the
lifestyle. I was still taking private jets across the Atlantic, partying on
yachts in the Mediterranean and enjoying wine, women and song.' We are sitting
in Sir Dai's room in a hospice in Kent, where he has been for the past month,
thinking about life and love and family, what's important and what isn't.
Reminiscing about his adventures and thanking his lucky stars for being around
at the right time before Britain lost its dash and became Little Britain.

At 62, the high living of the 'Seducer of the Valleys' has caught up with him
and he is gravely ill. In August, doctors told him he had prostate cancer,
cirrhosis of the liver and severe anaemia. A month ago, he learned the cancer
had spread.

It is in his right temple, cheek, shoulder and lower back. 'Yes, I'm riddled
with it,' he says. 'I have been told I can't be cured, but I can be better. I
get a bit of good news, then bad news. They managed to get the prostate under
control, but in the meantime the cancer has spread.

'The spreading across my face has mystified the doctors. They can't do a biopsy
as I could get meningitis and die.

'It's all down to the alcohol, it's all my fault. Oh what a joy, what a pleasure
alcohol can bring you. It can be one of life's great pleasures, but it can also
cause great downfalls.' Dai says he has always drunk heavily, and he recalls one
night when he consumed eight bottles of wine, one bottle of vodka, a bottle of
rum and a bottle of port. 'At 6am I was totally lucid. I drank because I liked
it.' He is one of few people who can pull off being debonair in a hospice. He
asks if I would like a glass of sherry or red wine, which he keeps in the closet
next to his bed. His doctors allow him a glass of wine a day, 'which I enjoy
immensely'.

He regrets he did not learn to embrace moderation sooner. Today, he is almost
unrecognisable from the larger-than-life bon viveur whose photo is so often in
gossip columns. He has lost five stone because there have been times he has been
so ill that the only food he could face was bananas.

Strangely, it suits him and he looks much younger than he used to. But his face,
though still handsome, is slightly yellowed and it is as though you can almost
see the cancer.

HE CAN walk about a little, and he has trouble standing up from his chair but
forces himself to do it. He gets very tired and cross with himself when all the
morphine he is being given to numb the pain makes him less lucid.

'Before this I was like someone in The Bonfire Of The Vanities, I was king of
the world. I was invincible, above the rules of society. Except I wasn't, and it
damned near killed me.

'There's no difference between a washed-out bum on the Embankment and a
champagne Charlie rotting his liver to death. You're just as dead whether you
die in a Mini or a Rolls-Royce. We're all the same.

'I was this ne'er-do-well who has been crushed to Earth by terrible news, and I
want to say that this is something that has led to me finding real humility.' As
a young man, Dai was the handsome, titled, rakish Old Etonian who went to the
best parties, drank champagne and wine till breakfast and gambled thousands at
Aspinalls casino in London. Weekends were spent at friends' stately homes and
fox-hunting.

He loved women and they loved him. As he grew older, he filled out and became
the roué who forgot to grow up, continuing to seduce women as if they were going
out of fashion.

But cancer has caught up with him. Last week, Dai had a five-day course of
radiotherapy to try to stop the cancer spreading further. 'They put this
extraordinary mask on you so you look like

Darth Vader, clamp it down and leave you alone in this room with these strong
rays coming down on you.

'It's a really spooky environment. It's not like chemo, where you lose your
hair. I've kept my hair, which is good for the vanity.' Last weekend, Dai and
his younger brother, Roddy, 61, from whom he had been estranged for three years,
made up. Since they were children they have fought, and they had their first
public row in 1976, when Dai mentioned in print his brother's affair with
Princess Margaret, which lasted for six years until 1978.

It was nothing revelatory -- the romance was known about publicly -- but Roddy
regarded it as a betrayal.

A 'two years on, two years off,' pattern of fallouts ensued. The latest was two
years ago when Roddy made a 'snide' remark about the fact that Dai's forthcoming
marriage to Christel Jurgensen, a Swedish-born interior designer, was to take
place in Marbella.

DAI responded that his brother was a 'crashing snob' and said he was banned from
the wedding -- and his funeral.

As things turned out, Christel dumped Dai soon afterwards and there was no
wedding at all.

'It was a sort of joke, but we didn't make up and it had begun to make me feel
sad. Then he came over at the weekend and we did make up. I've had this joy in
my heart ever since I saw him and we had the first hug.

'Blood really is thicker than wine. We went for lunch at a pub near the hospice
and spent the entire time giggling, telling family jokes and laughing our heads
off. It was wonderful.

'The row was so silly. I took a call from a newspaper two years ago saying Roddy
had been repeating that I'd betrayed him, so I labelled him a twerp.

'I said he was banned from my wedding and funeral, but it was a bit of a laugh,
you know. We've buried the hatchet now.' He says he began to feel ill a couple
of years ago, but ignored it. 'I was in denial. I hate hospitals and am
needlephobic, so I couldn't face treatment.' Yet in Dai Llewellyn style, he
found romance again due to his ill health. For the past few months, he has been
in a relationship with the royal biographer Ingrid Seward, widow of journalist
Ross Benson, who died in 2005.

'I was a great friend of Ross and Ingrid,' says Dai. 'I tried to help after
Ingrid lost her husband and she has been helping me since I fell ill. She would
drop anything to look after me.

'I started being really ill around last Christmas. We grew closer and it's
turned into something more serious over the past few months. She gradually
forced me into facing up to reality, that I was going to need help.

'I get very emotional about her. We went out the other day and were like
teenagers together.' And, he adds, showing a flash of the Dai of old: 'I still
have a few admirers.

I'll be getting some Valentine's cards in February, if I'm still alive.' In
June, Dai was staying at the home of a friend, Natalie Bertuzzi-Meehan, the
daughter of an old friend, Patrick Meehan, chairman of HandMade Films, when he
had a 'total collapse'.

'Natalie got me into an ambulance, which took me to hospital in Tunbridge Wells.
There doctors told me I was anaemic, had cancer and cirrhosis of the liver. I
spent two days having blood pumped out and new blood pumped into me. I don't
know who the donors were, but I'd like to thank them.' He says his illness has
been 'dreadful' for his two daughters, Arabella, a 24-year-old banker, and
Olivia, a 28-year-old actress.

'Until then I'd always been so robust, so it was a shock. Over the years they've
watched their silly old dad lead this unconventional life and get away with it.

'Arabella works for a private bank and she's under huge pressure. Olivia has
just made a Richard Curtis movie called Don't Rock The Boat about Radio
Caroline. She would drive miles from a film set to see me. They make me so
proud.' He says he has become close to their mother, Vanessa Hubbard, his
ex-wife, to whom he was married between 1980 and 1985. 'She has found the time
to see me and we've grown close again, so she has been a bit noble.' Vanessa, a
niece of the Duke of

Norfolk, was the one wife Dai took among the many, many girlfriends. His
reputation as a ladies' man began in 1967, when he took off around the world to
'make his fortune' and became a male model called David Savage. He ended up in
South Africa living with the model Robyn-Gail Hargreaves.

When he returned to London in 1969, he became a travel agent, and then social
secretary at the Clermont Club, an exclusive gambling club..

In 1975, he became betrothed to a girl called Isabel Richli, but broke off the
engagement after going to Tramp nightclub, seeing Beatrice Wells, daughter of
the actor Orson, in a red dress and experiencing a coup de foudre.

But it was a tempestuous romance and the couple were invited to fewer dinner
parties as time went on because the hosts were tiring of paying cleaning bills
as a result of the lovers flinging anything they could at each other. After one
row too many, Dai poured a glass of brandy over Beatrice's head and walked out.

A few years later, he married Vanessa after she became pregnant with their
daughter, Olivia. After his divorce in 1985 he took up with Annegret Tree, a
renowned beauty of the Sixties, and then Judith Wilcox, who was to become a
member of the House of Lords as Baroness Wilcox of Plymouth. Another girlfriend
was his business partner and personal assistant, Annabel Milnes-Smith.

Dai says he almost always stays friends with his ex-girlfriends. 'I have always
fallen in love at the same time as my female counterpart and the cooling off has
started as the same time as well, as if by magic.

'Three ex-girlfriends phoned me last night for a chat, and one said: "God,
didn't we have fun." 'I love women. There is nothing more beautiful than an
English rose.

They take my breath away.' Dai became 4th Baronet of Bwllfa, Aberdare, after his
father, Sir Harry Llewellyn, a show-jumper who won Olympic gold in 1952, died in
1999.

His mother, who died in 1998, was the daughter of the fifth Baron de Saumarez, a
title of Channel Island creation. One of his ancestors was Admiral Sir James
Saumarez, who was second-in-command to Nelson at the Nile.

His grandfather bought the family baronetcy in one of Lloyd George's sales of
honours after making a fortune in the coal business.

LLEWELLYN has a property in Wales and likes to stay in touch with his
'Welshness'. Last year he stood unsuccessfully for UKIP in the Welsh Assembly
elections.

He reminisces a lot about the good times. 'They say that if you remember the
Sixties you weren't there. I disagree, I remember every fabulous moment.

'You know what I really miss? The Rotters' Lunches I went to every Friday. I
can't say who attends them, it's a bit of a closed shop, but half of the people
have titles and some of them are pretty well-known.

'From the moment you walk in until the moment you leave the conversation is fast
and bitchy.

'I want to be out of this place, living again. A couple of friends called me the
other night, completely plastered, telling me they were in Spain and had fallen
over some steps and were covered in blood.

'I wanted to be there with them, though I feel guilty about that when the
dedicated doctors here are fighting for my very existence.' Dai wants so much to
be well. 'I have this joie de vivre, I love this life, I truly do. Every night I
go through this ritual of packing my bags in the hope I'll be able to leave, and
then I unpack them when I realise I can't.

'I don't know if I'm going to get out of here, but I know I want to.' In the
meantime, he has been assessing the life of the Seducer of the Valleys. 'I won
the lottery of life: being born British, being an Old Etonian, having a sporting
hero for a father.

'Some people may call being a playboy a useless occupation, but I'm not so sure.
I've not only had fun myself, but there has been fun for many others.

'I've taken time to be the life and soul of the party. I like the feeling that
I've helped to jolly things along if I've noticed a gap in conversation.

'If someone has seemed ill at ease, you're there to make that person feel at
ease. Society needs all sorts of people. And at least I was the best at what I
did.' And with that Sir Dai settles back in his chair and his mind drifts off
once again to a life lived to the full -- even if it was a lifestyle which has,
ultimately, brought him to a hospice.

It may be a cliche, but in the case of this engaging, passionate and
unapologetically hedonistic man, it seems appropriate: we shall not see his like
again..

LOAD-DATE: November 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) Fun and games: Sir Dai in his more days. The main was taken at a
club in London in 1981 (2) Frail: Sir Dai, 62, is gravely ill

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 21, 2008 Friday

G2: Television: TV Dinners: How to make . . .: Question Time

BYLINE: Jim Shelley

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 274 words


1. "Tonight, Question Time comes from the political hotbed of Chipping Sodbury!"
enthuses David Dimbleby, a man so dull he makes Ken Barlow look like Slash from
Guns N' Roses. "Text me," he implores with a gravitas his father would be proud
of. "Email us. Or press your red button."

2. "My guests tonight are: New Labour golden boy David Camerclone, Conservative
MP Jeremy Toff, businesswoman of the year 1987-2008 Jacqueline Gold from Ann
Summers, some drippy woman from the Liberal Democrats, and H from Steps."
Panellists smugly sip their water.

3. "In the light of the Baby P tragedy and the latest bombing in the Middle
East," asks a red-faced woman, "isn't it time we brought back corporal
punishment?" Dimbleby: "H from Steps . . ."

4. The questions come fast and furious, mostly from activists planted in the
audience: "Should we pull our troops out of Afghanistan?" (Stop the War); "When
will Brussels stop controlling our lives?" (UKIP); and "What would the panel
like for Christmas?" (M&S).

5. Dimbleby motions one member of the public to speak. "The man in the checked
shirt with the moustache . . . Oh, I'm sorry madam."

6. Looking tremendously pleased with herself, a teacher asks the final question.
"Do the panel prefer milk on their Coco Pops - or just straight out of the
packet ?" Tempers fray. Dimbleby struggles to maintain order.

7. "Next week, we will be in Purley," he closes. "Our guests will be runner-up
businesswoman of the year 1987-2008 Karren Brady, the Green party leader
Caroline Someone, writer Martin Amis, law and order expert Joey Barton, and
Hayley from Coronation Street."

Jim Shelley is the TV critic of the Mirror.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            November 21, 2008 Friday

Former Labour, Tory and Lib Dem members on BNP list: 'Nine ex-Conservatives' on
leaked files: Merseyside police officer suspended from duty

BYLINE: James Meikle and Helen Carter

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 615 words


The leaked British National party list contains the names of individuals who are
former members of all the mainstream political parties in England, it emerged
yesterday.

A former constituency chairman for the Conservatives, a former Labour
prospective parliamentary candidate, and a church minister who had been at
various times a Green, a Conservative and a Liberal Democrat, all went public on
why they had switched parties in the wake of the leaking of a BNP members' list.

Lionel Buck said he was chairman of Ashfield Conservative association in Not
tinghamshire for about four years, joining the BNP two years ago. He told the
Guardian: "The way the country is at the moment, there is no major party,
whether it be Conservative, Labour or Liberal Democrat, looking after the
indigenous population."

Andrew Emerson said he had been due to fight Chichester in Sussex for the Labour
party in 1997 before illness ruled him out, but joined the BNP in 2005, when he
had been the party's candidate for Broxbourne, Hertfordshire.

He had since tried to get elected to Chichester council, in his last attempt
last month gaining 12.3% of the vote in the ward. The main reason for changing
parties was "my unhappiness with the (Labour) party's open-door immigration
policy, making no attempt whatever to control immigration . . . and to properly
control our borders".

John Stanton, who heads the Rock Dene Christian Fellowship in his home town in
Rochford, Essex, with a congregation of 22, had also been a Green, a member of
Ukip, a Lib Dem councillor in the 1990s and a member of the Conservatives in

the 1970s.

He told the Press Association that "the flood of immigration" was a problem, as
was Islam and the European Union.

He said he had been with the BNP for

eight months.

A worried Labour MP, whose constituency is about 98% white and appears to have
the most BNP members, told the Guardian it was sometimes difficult to address
concerns of communities "stirred up by malicious and false information".

Colin Challen, MP for Morley and Rothwell in Yorkshire, where there are 90
members according to the list, said it was "very disappointing that local
people, even to that extent, have been persuaded to believe the racist claptrap
and hate politics of the BNP".

But research indicated, he said, that "sadly it is very often the case that
areas which have a very small ethnic minority population and large working class
population have developed pockets of support for the British National party".

It was a "matter of shame" that a seat on Leeds city council that fell within
his constituency was held by a BNP member. The main political parties had to
understand the concerns of communities and work to address them, even in the
face of inflammatory information.

The Labour party said it would expel anyone found to be a member of the BNP; the
Lib Dems "deplored" its beliefs and tactics; and the Conservatives said all
mainstream parties "have an obligation to address the voter alienation and
disillusionment that fuels support for extremism".

Nine people on the BNP membership list are said to be former Conservatives, but
the party said it only knew of six, and they had been associated with party some
years ago.

Meanwhile, a police officer whose name appeared on the BNP list was yesterday
suspended from duty by Merseyside police, a spokesman for the force said.

PC Stephen Bettley, who worked as a driver for the chief constable, Bernard
Hogan-Howe, in 2006, returned early from a holiday abroad last night to help the
force with an investigation into his alleged involvement.

Police are banned from becoming members of the far-right party because it
conflicts with obligations under race relations laws.

LOAD-DATE: November 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                                  SC1 Edition

A laughable list of losers and lunacy

BYLINE: John MacLeod

SECTION: Pg. 17

LENGTH: 1201 words


LET us make one thing immediately plain: the British National Party is a
repulsive organisation, led by ocean-going balloons and peopled overwhelmingly
by sad, inadequate, pimply young men.

Its racism apart, the BNP is vile in its essential character: a party rooted not
in argument but vulgar hooliganism. It is not alone in the trade of politics
with menaces - the far Left in Scotland has exploited similar inchoate
resentments to overtly different ends.

But the alliance of mob violence to explicit bigotry has peculiar terror for
those of us not blithely categorised as 'Indigenous Caucasian'.

Yet the BNP remains a legal organisation, as entitled as any, within the scope
of the law, to contend for our votes in a liberal democracy. And the theft of
its detailed 2007 membership list, now posted all over the internet, is an
outrage no less serious because of the contempt in which we hold the
organisation.

This list, which appeared on the web on Monday evening, has the names,
addresses, occupations, telephone and email details of some 13,500 British
people. In many cases, the names and ages of children in the same household are
specified, besides contact information for dozens of members under the age of
18.

With BNP members presently enjoying a place in public esteem just below bankers
and just above paedophiles, the horror among party activists on Tuesday can be
imagined. The risk to their jobs is real, especially in politically correct
times, a litigious age and a major recession.

Policemen and prison officers are explicitly forbidden to join the BNP (although
several appear to be named on this list). And Labour MPs are already agitating
for the TUC, as a matter of fixed principle, to allow any union to expel an
identified BNP member without penalty.

Only the alacrity with which the BNP won a High Court injunction earlier this
year, after the theft of data, has prevented wholesale exposure of individuals
in the newspapers.

Even so, we are assured the list includes servicemen, a policewoman, district
nurses, librarians, four clergy, a

Chelsea Pensioner and a ' receptionist' - to say nothing of people with hobbies
that sit incongruously with leather jackets, swastika tattoos and a dog with no
neck. W HO will fear any member of a selfdefined masterrace who describes
himself as a 'witch'? Or dread an imminent Kristalnacht from stormtroopers given
to line-dancing, steam trains, holistic therapy, fantail doves and koi carp?
Chuckles aside, though, nothing minimises a gross breach of trust. The theft of
the list was, we are told, an act of studied malice by an estranged former
activist, whose glee can only be compounded the more fuss is made over these
revelations.

And fear for employment may be the least of it. Those named in the list are
thereby exposed to hate-mail, pickets and assault - quite apart from the fact
that membership details broadcast on this scale would be scarcely less serious
were they those of the West Highland Steamer Club.

And this is where Home Secretary Jacqui Smith - a lady incapable of seeing a
spotlight without dancing in it - gloriously misses the point.

Assuring the BBC she does not mind people knowing she is a member of the Labour
Party, she simpers: 'I wonder why it is that BNP members are rather more ashamed
of their membership?'

But the real issue is not such embarrassment. It is the appalling discovery that
entire strangers with access to the internet can, with a few deft inquiries,
ascertain who you are and where you live.

It should in fact be impossible to find out any policeman's address. All the
bobbies I know have ex-directory telephone numbers. The same holds generally
true for doctors, head teachers, prison officers and a host of public servants
with good reason to safeguard their privacy.

Judging by the BNP's witless response, the party is in little danger of
attaining government.

Its spokesman, Simon Darby, promptly declared that 'if we find out the name of
the person who published this list, it will turn out to be one of the most
foolish things they have done in their life'.

This is not the smartest PR response from men associated less with the Today
programme than with Rottweilers and baseball bats. And party leader Nick
Griffin's statements are risible.

He immediately suggested publication of the list on the web was all a dastardly
trick by the 'Labour regime'. Then he claimed it as some sort of PR triumph - it
might demolish perceptions of a typical BNP member as a 'skinhead oik'.

He then declared the party would be pursuing protection under Europe's Human
Rights Act. Actually, the BNP wants to abolish the Act, the EU, and even Europe
or at least anyone in it who is remotely gay, Jewish or coffee-coloured.

But we can scarcely expect the rational from a man who insists the Holocaust
never happened and it was all just 'Allied wartime propaganda', which makes one
wonder if Griffin wishes he could make his speeches in German.

Despite modest electoral advance in the past decade - the BNP presently boasts
58 councillors in England and one member of the London Assembly - the party wins
but derisory support in Scotland. Griffin's inanities remind us just how daft
this movement is. A ND recent history attests that a fringe party which makes
sudden, unexpected progress can be relied on shortly to collapse under its own
weight.

The SNP of the 1970s - the modern Nats are barely recognisable by comparison -
imploded within one Parliament.

UKIP is unlikely to survive the opportunistic, 2004 embrace of Robert
Kilroy-Silk. And the Scottish Socialists are once again a music-hall joke.

The BNP controls nothing and is a threat to no one. The bigger a balloon it
becomes, the more inevitable will be its final, satisfying pop. But our
mainstream political class has yet to resolve how best to deal with an outfit
pursuing evil objectives by legitimate democratic means - partly because the
cult of political correctness has already ruled great areas of public policy
off-limits for discussion.

And if we choose to fight the illiberal by illiberal means, we play into the
very hands of such outfits, already eager to persuade the urban marginalised
that 'the system' has forgotten them and ignores their fears.

There is an excellent case for banning police officers from joining any
political party.

There is no case for prohibiting their membership of just one political party.

Trade unions exist to win the advantages of collective bargaining and to defend
the interests of their members against the might of power and capital.

They do not exist to tell their members how to think.

And it is high time to stop treating the BNP with almost superstitious horror,
as if its arguments were so unanswerable and its appeal so terrifyingly
seductive that only ostracism and the force of law (if not crucifixes, cloves of
garlic and a stake pounded through its collective heart) can prevent it
inheriting the earth.

All such measures do is imbue the British National Party with an air of
ill-deserved martyrdom.

The best attack is debate.

And the readiest and most effective solution to its vicious idiocies would be
sustained, deftly targeted ridicule - not the stamp of our own jackboot but
great gales of mocking laughter..

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Risible response: Nick Griffin and his party should be exposed through
rational debate

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                                  1ST Edition

On file: A doctor, a musician, and a man of God

SECTION: Pg. 7

LENGTH: 648 words


THEY'RE not what British National Party members are supposed to be like.

Instead of shaven-headed thugs, the membership list reveals a surprising number
of professionals leading apparently respectable lives. Doctors, teachers,
musicians, social workers and even vicars are among those named as members. We
asked some of them what led them to sign up.

JOAN BRIDGE-TAYLOR, 72. Ex-social worker, owner of old people's home

'WE'VE been members for about four years,' said Mrs Joan Bridge-Taylor, who
lives in a detatched four-bed house near Exeter with husband Robin, 77, also a
BNP member.

'We didn't want to get involved with anything extremist - I'm a grandmother and
spent my life caring about people. But the country's full - the infrastructure,
roads, flood plains, schools, nothing can cope with the massively unregulated
numbers of incomers. I believe at the very least the BNP can influence the other
parties to properly regulate immigration.'

ROBIN HILL, 55. Musician and Leeds University tutor

'I DID join and take out a year's subscription in 2005 and this was as a result
of having extremely difficult problems in the area where I live locally with
youths,' said Mr Hill, who lives in Bolton, Lancashire, with his wife and two
children aged six and 11.

Mr Hill, who has played with the BBC Concert Orchestra and collaborated with
Luciano Pavarotti, added: 'I grew up in this area but in the last ten to 20
years there has been an influx of mainly Asian immigrants, which has changed the
face of the area.

'I'm not a racist, but I don't like the erosion of Britishness that is going on.
But after a while, I felt that I had joined the BNP without really thinking it
through and then there were some of the more extreme representatives of the BNP
that I wanted to distance myself from.'

REVEREND JOHN STANTON, 76.

Religious minister THE ex-Conservative and Lib- Dem councillor and former member
of Green and UKIP parties says he has left the BNP because of its racist
policies.

Mr Stanton, who lives in Rochford, Essex, with wife Joyce and daughter Deborah
said: 'The impression I got was that it was a very British, Christian
organisation.

I discovered the party was anti-Semitic and homophobic.

I was misled by what they said about themselves.'

ARTHUR NIGHTINGALE, 67.

Senior engineer at Cambridge

'I JOINED the BNP because it seemed to me we were losing all our culture,' said
Mr Nightingale of Haverhill, Suffolk, who works at Cambridge University. 'The EU
trying to ban the British flag and so on. I was trying to support people who I
saw as standing up for the country we live in.'

JAMES WHITE, 74. Retired Met anti-terror Officer

'I BELIEVE in making England for the English,' said Mr White who lives with his
wife in Axminster, Devon. 'I'm not a member of the BNP now but I still have my
views. I believe in England for the indigenous people but they seem to be pushed
into second-class position these days.

'I fought for this country, and now I see the way it's got an open door to any
old immigrants.

There are decent ones who want to settle and have a family and have a life but
they let in gangsters and pimps and they take preference over other people.'

DENNIS PEARCE, 58.

Former engineer

'I BACK the BNP's manifesto completely,' said Mr Pearce who lives in North-West
London with his wife and two of his three children.

He is the brother of footballer Stuart Pearce 'The country is full up. It's time
to shut the door on immigrants.

Immigration isn't helping crime rates drop, that's for sure.'

DR CHARLES MATHER, 69.

Former GP and farmer

'I WANTED to support a party that would stick up for the working people of this
country, and that's the BNP,' said Dr Mather who lives near Wigan with his wife.
'This country is overcrowded, and I believe in complete freedom of speech.

'A lot of my friends were miners, and they have been treated like second class
citizens by the mainstream political parties.'

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The priest: John Stanton says he was misled into joining the BNP Joan
Bridge- Taylor Robin Hill Arthur Nightingale Joan Bridge-Taylor Robin Hill
Arthur Nightingale

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 669 words


It's worse than we thought. For days we've known that Labour minister Liam Byrne
is fussy about his morning coffee and the timely arrival of his lunchtime soup.
But who knew that he left his successor, Phil "The Beast" Woolas, a 26-page
handover note for the private office staff to deliver? And who said that he left
an office half-aglow with interactive whiteboards? When Woolas ripped it all
out, the staff, browbeaten yet hopeful still of a better life, asked if there
was anything he needed to make the office work more efficiently. "A beer
cooler," he said. We might yet like him.

We hear the cries of anguish from BNP members whose personal details were leaked
to the web by a former official. The police officers, servants of the community,
who would, in accordance with the party's policy, "repatriate" significant
sections of the populace. The teachers, whose love of children sits neatly with
the BNP's belief that those of mixed parentage should not exist. But even we
must feel some sympathy for our friends at Navigor, or the National Vigilante
Organisation, because, for them, the leak could not have come at a worse time.
For many months, as its activists - said on its forum to number more than 400 -
have courted popularity and profile through the internet correspondence columns
of the Daily Mail, Navigor has been at pains to deny any link with the BNP. We
are just concerned citizens, they have been saying, here to fight the yobs and
nonces. But can this explanation, which has always been treated with scepticism,
survive the publication of the membership list. It may not. This is sad.

So farewell, John Sergeant. The worse you were, the more they loved you. A tonic
in these worrying times. You spoke at length about your reasons for leaving
Strictly Come Dancing and they all seemed rather plausible, at least until Ukip
came forth with the genuine story. "Just a few days ago Lord Peter Mandelson let
it be known that he would love to be on the BBC top-rated show," a party
spokesman said yesterday. "With the help of former spin doctor Alastair Campbell
the BBC were forced to create a vacancy." They spoke of "dark forces" at work,
which exactly mirrored the ominous warning the Queen was said to have passed on
to Diana's butler Paul Burrell soon after the princess's death in 1997. You
deserve better, John. Go carefully.

As documents from the Bank of England spark hopes of another cut in interest
rates, we bring you tales from cash-strapped Britain. Visitors to the Country
Living fair, staged in Islington last weekend, know what's happening. The
squeeze is on. "Have you bought that stocking yet?" demands a gentleman of his
companion. "Don't you think £20 is a bit much to pay for a stocking for the
dog?" she says.

To Bristol and a car showroom, which was once a hive of activity. The bonnets
shine, as do the suits, but turnover is slow. "Well, put it this way: it's
Tuesday and I haven't hung myself yet but I'll still be on beans at Christmas,"
a salesman moans down the telephone. "No, I won't; it'll be alphabet spaghetti.
I can spell out the word RECESSION."

Read all about it. Sit back, watch historian Niall Ferguson explain it all in
his new Channel 4 series The Ascent of Money. Consider that the series is
sponsored for a six-figure sum by the Cayman Islands. Reflect and weep.

Finally, we suspect it is not the kind of international recognition that Gordon
craves, but this year he has joined a select group of people chosen each year to
be "caganers" - the Christmas nativity scene figures from Catalonia who, while
the three kings and various animals look adoringly at Baby Jesus, squat in the
corner answering the call of nature. The cagier - literally "the crapper" - is
much beloved by Catalan children and is considered an essential part of any
nativity scene. This year a company that makes the squat figures has decided to
include Gordon, along with several of his G20 chums, in its collection. It's a
job with pressures. Thank God for the perks.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

What does the leaked list of its 13,500 members reveal about the BNP?;
The big question

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1309 words


Why are we asking this now?

Because the British National Party's membership list has been published on the
internet in defiance of a court order. It was put up on the internet on Monday
night but has since been removed, although by then copies had already been made.
Nick Griffin, the party's leader, tried to cover his embarrassment by claiming
yesterday that the range of ages and occupations of his members disproved the
caricature that the typical member was a "skinhead oik".

What was on the list?

It was the full list of the party's 13,500 UK members, up to date last year,
including their home addresses, in and in many cases their occupations, phone
numbers and email addresses. The occupations included teachers, ministers of
religion, doctors, nurses, two solicitors, members of the armed forces, several
"government employees" and a small number of police officers - who have not been
permitted by law since 2004 to belong to the BNP.

Griffin claimed yesterday that some of the people on the list were not actually
members, but had only expressed an interest in joining. One of the most
surprising names on the list was that of someone who stood as a Green Party
candidate in the 2001 and 2005 elections.

Who did it and why?

Griffin blames a disgruntled "hardliner", a senior member of the party who left
last year. He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme yesterday: "He didn't like the
direction the party was going and broke away, taking the list with him." He
complained that it was a "nasty piece of intimidation" but tried to exploit the
sudden interest in his party by saying: "In terms of repositioning us as a party
genuinely made up of ordinary British people from all walks of life that will
actually do us good."

What is the legal position?

The original publication was on the face of it a clear breach of the Data
Protection Act 1998, and may also have been in contempt of court, in that the
BNP obtained an injunction against its publication earlier this year. The
legality of subsequent publication is less clear.

In one of the more piquant twists of the affair, Griffin was forced yesterday to
admit that his party was hoping to rely on the right to privacy under the
European Convention on Human Rights in its attempts to limit further
publication. The BNP is opposed both to the Convention and to the Human Rights
Act that incorporates it into British law.

One anti-BNP website, Harry's Place, having drawn attention to the list,
yesterday deleted its links and posted a warning to other bloggers not to link
to the list. But some experts yesterday pointed to a ruling by the European
Court of Human Rights that the state may not punish people for publishing
information that is already in the public domain, even if the original
publication was unlawful. They suggested that this would limit the scope of the
Data Protection Act.

How have BNP members reacted?

The exposure of party members' names and personal details has opened many of
them to harassment, ostracisation and even dismissal from their jobs. However,
some of them reacted in a way that was not helpful to a party that has tried for
years to shed its association with physical violence.

Simon Darby, a BNP spokesman, was quoted as saying: "If we find out the name of
the person who published this list it will turn out to be one of the most
foolish things they have done in their life." Griffin was forced to insist that
this meant only that the person faced prison for breaching a high court
injunction.

Many members were furious with the party leadership and posted comments on
websites that were critical of Griffin's basic administrative ability. One asked
why, if he couldn't keep a membership list secure, he thought he could run the
country.

Others, however, responded by calling radio phone-ins to say how proud they were
to be members of the BNP. Several presented themselves as martyrs to far-left
intimidation. One woman member, who said that she was a teacher, called BBC
Radio 5 Live to complain that she lived in a fascist state. A man said that he
had already received threatening emails. It was not clear whether some of the
callers were organised by the party, but when the man was asked if he would
report the emails to the police said, "No, not unless the party want me to."

Are BNP members racist?

Many of the callers to phone-ins were keen to stress how respectable they and
fellow members were, and to put a distance between themselves and the thuggish
image of the National Front, one of the BNP's precursors. Even so, it becomes
quickly apparent that the party is largely motivated by the single issue of
immigration, and that racism is never far from the surface. Several variants of
the classic "I'm not a racist but" line were heard yesterday, including "I've
got a friend who is Indian", but sadly none of the honesty heard by Daniel
Finkelstein, who claims when canvassing for the Conservative Party to have come
across someone who said: "I'm not a racist but I hate black people."

Although Nick Griffin was acquitted on the charge of inciting racial hatred two
years ago, his words at a private meeting of BNP members, filmed covertly, were
in sharp contrast to his attempts to present himself in public as a reasonable
moderate who just happens to be opposed to immigration. He described Islam as a
"wicked, vicious faith" and said Muslims were turning Britain into a
"multi-racial hell hole", while another BNP speaker said: "Let's show these
ethnics the door in 2004."

And as anti-BNP bloggers pointed out yesterday, the BNP's constitution is
explicitly racist in that it says: "Membership of the party shall be open only
to those who are 16 years of age or over and whose ethnic origin is listed
within Sub-section 2."

So is the BNP now part of the political mainstream?

The BNP - and some of its left-wing opponents - claim that the focus on the
issue of immigration by Labour and Conservative parties gives it legitimacy.
Griffin, who is an occasionally plausible media performer, has pursued a
long-term strategy of portraying the party as democratic and non-violent.

The trouble for him is that he also likes to portray the party as the victim of
prejudice against its "skinhead" image, which only emphasises how unacceptable
its views continue to be to the majority. The fact that so many BNP members are
secretive about their membership of the party is testament that the party is
widely regarded as beyond the pale.

The election of a BNP member of the London Assembly earlier this year was less
evidence of growing electoral support for the party than of the change in
support for other parties, such as the UK Independence Party, interacting with
the system of proportional representation.

The publication of the membership list is likely, if anything, to prompt calls
for members of other occupations to be banned from BNP membership. So far, only
police officers and prison service employees are banned from membership of the
BNP and similar organisations, on the grounds that racial discrimination, which
is BNP policy, is against the law.

Far from gaining acceptance, the exposure of teachers as BNP members, in
particular, is likely to increase pressure to ban the profession from
membership.

So is membership of the BNP now 'acceptable'?

Yes...

* The 'skinhead oik' image is a hangover from the National Front days of the
1970s

* Many members of the BNP, as the list proves, work in 'respectable' graduate
occupations

* Most BNP members are keen to be seen as democrats simply seeking to assert
their right to free speech

No...

* The far right has always drawn support from a minority of what was once called
the petit bourgeoisie

* The presence of a few well educated members should not distract attention from
the majority

* Hate-tinged rhetoric in private has been shown to contrast with apparent
reasonableness in public.

j.rentoul@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

WATCHING KILROY-SULK IS WORSE THAN ROSSY..

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 559 words


JUST as unscrupulous firms are using this recession to bump up redundancy
numbers so enemies of the BBC are using Manuelgate to hasten its downfall.

Celebrity Refuseniks, as they're labelled, say they won't cough up their licence
fee until Jonathan Ross is sacked, because they don't pay taxes to fund "overp
aid, bullying egomaniacs."

Not surprisingly, they are either rightwing ex - media figures like Charles
Moore (Thatcherite fawner-in-chief), or right-wing ex-BBC presenters like Robin
Page (country bumpkin-in-chief). They joined Noel Edmonds (the poison dwarf
recently said he doesn't like the Beeb's "threatening" manner).

And their law-breaking is being shamefully ignored for fear of creating martyrs.
Which won't do. If council tax rebels go to jail so must they.

And just to give licence-payers value for money why not place webcams in their
cells so we can enjoy the pain of their martyrdom? Oh, to see Edmonds' face when
a lifer who's gone six years without a conjugal visit brings up his Crinkley
Bottom.

But if these refuseniks do get their way, then we should all be allowed to cite
taxes we won't pay.

For example, how many of you would join me in refusing to pay the portion of tax
which goes to the European Parliament until they suspend MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk
for taking three weeks off to appear on I'm A Celebrity... ?

As you watch him lounge around bitching, bullying and barking orders to minions,
resembling a cross between I, Claudius and Rab C Nesbitt, I know you're out
there in your millions. I thank ITV for showing us that Kilroy is still alive (I
feared the orange man had literally been Tangoed) and for reminding the
Ross-baiters that when it comes to overpaid, bullying, egomaniacs Kilroy is in a
league of his own.

The deluded object of self-love you see cheating and lying in the jungle is the
same lovely chap who described the Irish as "peasants, priests and pixies" and
Arabsas "suicide bombers, limb-amputators and women repressors".

The head-worker who wooed Ukip and won a ticket to Brussels on the back of his
TV fame and a claim he would help to bring down this "corrupt, bureaucratic,
dictatorial regime."

That was four years ago. He's still there although Ukip long ago ditched him, so
he sits as an independent.

Still drawing his bloated MEP's salary from that gravy train he so despises.

Indeed he's got so used to the taste of Bisto he is still claiming his wages
from Brussels while he's out in the jungle, getting paid by ITV.

Remember the kicking that other Ronseal-tinged politico George Galloway took for
going on Celebrity Big Brother?

Well, at least he refused to take his MP's pay, and gave his fee back to his
party.

At least he attempted to get across his political message, albeit in between
dressing up as a cat and licking imaginary milk from Rula Lenska's hand.

But what has Kilroy done, when not snoring, apart from spray his testosterone on
weaker animals, as he's done all his public life?

I don't know what's going through the minds of those 366,498 East Midlanders who
voted him into the European Parliament - but I know what's going through mine.

A prayer that there exists an Australian creature's penis which - when eaten -
makes the smugness, and the (false) colour drain from your face permanently Only
then will I call off my threatened EU tax boycott.

As bullies go he's in a league all of his own

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SMUG Kilroy

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 20, 2008 Thursday
                              Correction Appended

The BNP can never make itself respectable

BYLINE:  David Aaronovitch

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.37

LENGTH: 1006 words


Conditions ought to be ripe for the far Right. But the unsavoury militancy of
its activists will always repel the voters

This coming period was - it hoped, and its enemies feared - to be the British
National Party's time. Unemployment is rising substantially, and so might the
demand for "nationalist" solutions - in which work-grabbing foreigners over here
and business-grabbing foreign goods over there, will be given the elbow through
cuts in immigration and trade protectionism.

It seemed like that for a while in the mid-1970s too. Unemployment was on the up
and there was a sense of national decline. In the 1973 West Bromwich by
election, the National Front, the BNP of its day, in the burly shape of its
national organiser, Martin Webster, won more than 16 per cent of the vote. This
despite his his unfortunate promise to "build a well-oiled Nazi machine" in
Britain.

Paradoxically, as the economy got worse, the NF's fortunes ebbed. Partly this
was because of the reaction its success provoked, with organisations such as the
Anti-Nazi League being set up to expose the awkward political ancestry of the
NF's leading cadres. But the full-scale massacre of jobs that followed the 1979
election gave no benefit whatsoever to the far Right. By then even the pro-Enoch
dockers of 1968 were beginning to realise that Britain was a multiracial
society.

We are not a militant lot, and far-left and far-right groups have fared worse in
Britain than in other countries. They traditionally blame the electoral system
for this, arguing that were they able to get a toe in the door the whole
fragrant body might follow. But since 1997 we have tested this proposition with
proportional representation elections in Scotland, Wales, London and for Europe,
and the voters still show a marked reluctance to support extremists. The gain of
a London Assembly seat by the BNP last May has led to no dramatic (or
undramatic) rise in its support.

The same can be seen in the short history of George Galloway's fabulously
misnamed Respect party, an odd alliance of Leninism and Islamism, where success,
based on hostility to the wars in Afghanistan and Iraq, was followed by a
plateau, and then a total fracture along its blindingly obvious faultline.

But at least Respect was briefly fashionable among anti-war, arty types. The BNP
has never been, and never will be fashionable. It represents anti-fashion, the
reaction of the unconsulted and unconsidered (as they like to think of
themselves). The difficulty is that, in Britain, the slightly angry silent
majority is never going to embrace an organisation that is seen as less than
respectable.

The very fear expressed by members "outed" when the BNP's membership list was
posted on the internet shows, in part, that they recognise their respectability
problem. Small wonder, then, that the BNP's continuing dilemma has been how far
and how quickly to make itself respectable at the expense of its own core
beliefs.

Moderation sits badly with the BNP. Its activists comprise far more than the
usual proportion of convicts and football hooligans. You have only to visit a
few neo-Nazi websites to see the crossover between BNP-ers and their unmoderated
alter egos.

The leader's own past is evidence enough. Nick Griffin once wrote a pamphlet on
Jewish influence in the media and, when I interviewed him six years ago, it was
evident that he remained a convinced ideological racist, in that he believed
that race equalled destiny. Now he has to pretend not to, hence his claim to be
a moderate in a moderate party.

Such a transformation is theoretically possible. Mussolini's heir in Italy,
Gianfranco Fini, took the MSI party from his own enthusiastic claim in 1991 that
"fascism is alive!" to being a centre-right presence in the Italian Government,
in which he has been Deputy Prime Minister and, Foreign Minister. Sometimes in
politics, if you pretend to be something long enough, you actually become it.
But Griffin is no Fini.

On the website of Simon Smith, until recently a BNP councillor in Sandwell, West
Midlands, you may note Smith's urgent belief that the Holocaust never happened,
and is all a hoax got up by the Chosen People. This, of course, is not a helpful
opinion for a BNP man to express publicly, and Smith is no longer a BNP man.

This is his understanding of the leader's reasoning. "Nick Griffin took the
party away from the public debate of Revisionism (a fancy name for Holocaust
denial). In many ways this was understandable. The argument was that before
history could be honestly taught, a Nationalist government was needed. In
politics expediency is universal." In other words, Griffin's position is: first
get into power and only then tell the "truth" about the Jews.

It is precisely the far Right's militancy that so repels voters and yet so
attracts its activists. Take it away, they fear, and you're not left with much,
except UKIP Mark II, possibly, and UKIP Mark I is embarrassing enough. It is
worth recalling that the BNP was originally a militant split from the
then-moderating NF.

This is not to say that there won't be BNP alarums in the next few years. Voters
should easily be able to forget the membership lists fiasco, and occasionally
vote in another assortment of utterly useless, quarrelsome and temporary
councillors. In one or two places, such as Stoke, they may even - like ordure
flung against a door - stick for a while. For this purpose the BNP needs no more
than 5,000 to 6,000 members to have a noisome presence, and to influence
panickers in mainstream parties towards economic and social nationalism.

Simon Smith, the disgruntled anti-Semite, decided that the BNP was "being
managed as a state safety valve", and some might argue that every society could
do with a legitimate far-right group to channel the activities of those who hate
foreigners. Some may ask, doesn't every good country need a Nazi party? Just so
long as it has absolutely no influence and does absolutely nothing is my answer.

LOAD-DATE: November 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: November 29, 2008



CORRECTION:  Martin Webster points out that he said: "We are building a
well-oiled Nazi machine in Britain" in 1962 as a member of the National
Socialist Movement, and not in 1973 as a member of the National Front, as might
have been inferred from an Opinion column on November 20. We are happy to set
the record straight.

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               November 19, 2008

BNP membership list posted online by former 'hardliner'

LENGTH: 976 words


The entire membership list of the British National party has been posted on the
internet, identifying thousands of people as secret supporters of the far right
and exposing many to the risk of dismissal from work, disciplinary action or
vilification.

The BNP leader Nick Griffin claimed today that he knew the identity of the
person who published the list, describing him as a "hardliner" senior employee
who left the party last year.

"He didn't like the direction the party was going and broke away, taking the
list with him," Griffin told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

Around 13,500 names and home addresses were posted on a website late on Monday
evening.

As well as names and addresses the list includes the home and mobile phone
numbers and personal email addresses of BNP members. It is thought that the list
may include lapsed members of the party and the names and addresses of people
who have expressed an interest in joining the party, but have not signed up.
Many of the members' occupations are listed, revealing a small number of police
officers, two solicitors, four ministers of religion, at least one doctor and a
number of primary and secondary school teachers.

BNP spokesman Simon Darby said: "If we find out the name of the person who
published this list it will turn out to be one of the most foolish things they
have done in their life."

But Griffin insisted those words did not represent a threat of violence but the
reality that the person faced prison for breaching a high court injunction. The
BNP leader admitted the party was relying on the Human Rights Act, based on EU
legislation, which it opposes, to try to protect the privacy of its members.

He said he had no problem with publication of members' occupations but listing
their names and addresses represented "a nasty piece of intimidation on behalf
of the Labour regime".

However, Griffin also welcomed the publicity the story had garnered for the
party, saying the list showed the perception of the average BNP member as a
"skinhead oik" was "simply not true".

Last night Darby said the police had been called in to investigate the data
security breach. Describing the posting as "malevolent and spiteful" he said:
"This isn't a question of us mislaying the information, this is theft."

The BNP list also included the names and ages of children who have become
members of the party after a parent has taken out a family membership, and
several people who have joined the party at the age of 16.

Against the name of a woman said to be a serving police officer and living on
the Wirral, Merseyside, for example, is the note: "Discretion required re
employment concerns - police officer", along with the names and ages of a number
of her children.

Other notes against the names of individuals include: "Discretion requested
(employment concerns), government employee, IT consultant" and "activist
(discretion requested), teacher (secondary school)".

The BNP is known to go to considerable lengths to conceal the identities of
members. Membership lists are held on computer spreadsheets, usually by an
official based in York. He sends limited lists to local organisers as encrypted
attachments to emails that can be accessed only by officials who have been given
a password.

The BNP conceded that very few people would have had access to its full
membership list. The party said that the list was not up-to-date, featuring no
members who had signed up since late 2007, and claimed that it included the
names of people who had never been members of the party. The party also said it
had obtained an injunction earlier this year at the high court in Manchester to
prevent the misuse of its membership list.

Griffin confirmed on the party's website that much of the list was genuine, and
that it contained data that was stored at some point between November 30 and
December 2 2007. He added: "This latest attack is not really directed against
our own people, who are already tough-minded and know that nothing ever comes of
this sort of bluster, so much as against the thousands of [members of the UK
Independence party] who are thinking of joining us.

"It probably will frighten some of them, but it's water off a duck's back to the
stout hearts of the British National Party."

Last night, internet chat rooms frequented by British supporters of the far
right were buzzing with anger, indignation - and considerable alarm. One typical
posting said: "The most shocking thing is some of the comments by the names! God
help anyone who is in the army, the prison service, health care, a police
officer or a teacher."

It is thought that the information commissioner, who enforces the Data
Protection Act, may investigate the matter, looking not only at the posting of
the membership list, but at the amount of information that the BNP has been
storing about its members.

A spokesperson for the Information Commissioner's Office said: "Following media
reports that the personal details of BNP members have been incorrectly
disclosed, we will be contacting the party to establish the full facts. We will
then decide what action, if any, is appropriate.

"We encourage all organisations to alert the Information Commissioner's Office
if they discover a security breach has occurred."

The membership list reveals that the BNP has a handful of members in Australia,
one in Oman and around 17 living in the United States. Strangely, some of the
members' hobbies are also listed. One gives her occupation as "holistic
therapist" and her pastimes as "metaphysics, cartoon drawing". Another lists his
hobbies as "fantail doves, koi carp, gardening".

There are also one or two insights into reasons that people have left the party.
Against the name of one lapsed member from Gillingham, Kent, is the note:
"Objects to being told he shouldn't wear a bomber jacket."

* Additional reporting Duncan Campbell, Paul Lewis

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               19 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                          November 19, 2008 Wednesday

From racism to mowing lawns: how far Right was rebranded

BYLINE:  Sam Coates, Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.7

LENGTH: 429 words


As political makeovers go, it has been as cynical as it has been effective.
Angry rhetoric about race and immigration is no longer the core message.
Instead, the BNP styles itself as a "community champion", focusing on rundown
Labour areas and promising to stand up for local people.

Residents find their lawns are now being cut, while the elderly receive help
with shopping. Meanwhile, rumours start circulating about the gradual
"Islamification" of the area.

This was the experience before the May election in Stoke-on-Trent, which has
been studied by a local government commission.

Until a few years ago all Stoke's 60 seats were held by Labour. But on May 1
there was a BNP surge and Labour lost seven seats on the council and the BNP won
nine.

High unemployment, poverty and "hopelessness and despair" were behind the
decision of many to vote for the BNP, the report found. It was a pattern
repeated around the country, an election in which 56 BNP councillors were
elected on one day.

Slowly, below the radar, the BNP has been building support around Britain. An
electoral force for more than a decade, at the last general election in 2005 the
BNP contested 119 seats, taking 192,850 votes compared with 47,129 in 2001.

Its best result was in Barking, East London, where it took 16.89per cent of the
vote. But it lost its £ 500 deposit in 84 seats. In 2006, the BNP doubled its
number of councillors in England. The biggest gains were again in Barking &
Dagenham, where it became the second party.

Since then, the party has made gains from Wales to Windsor & Maidenhead, showing
that its electoral appeal spreads across class demographics. It reached a new
electoral milestone in May, winning its its first seat in the London Assembly
after Richard Barnbrook received 5.3 per cent of the poll, about 130,000 votes.

With the elections comes momentum. The BNP is about to embark on its largest
advertising campaign, using the slogan "Racism cuts both ways". The party says
that it is the biggest and most ambitious stategy it has ever undertaken.

Ministers fear that the forthcoming recession could benefit the BNP. Jon
Cruddas, the Labour MP for Dagenham who campaigns against the BNP, said
recently: "It will make a qualitative difference in terms of the context within
which they're allowed to per- petuate their scapegoating."

Many are now looking nervously towards next year's European elections. The
absence of UKIP, which squeezed the BNP vote in 2004, means that Britain's first
BNP Euro MP could be just months from taking office.

LOAD-DATE: November 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

BBC REFUSENIKS;
After that shameful episode with Brand and Ross, more and more viewers are
asking the question: Why SHOULD we pay the licence fee?

BYLINE: Paul Revoir

SECTION: Pg. 11

LENGTH: 1452 words


A GROWING number of public figures are joining a backlash against the BBC
licence fee.

Opposition to the annual levy has been stoked in recent weeks by the Jonathan
Ross/Russell Brand scandal.

But there had already been widespread discontent over the threatening behaviour
of licence-fee collectors and the perceived bias of the BBC.

An array of influential names are now threatening to withhold their fee out of
principal.

They include TV presenter Robin Page and journalist Charles Moore, who says he
won't pay if Ross stays on the BBC payroll following his and Brand's infamous
taunting of Andrew Sachs (see panels below).

The ranks of licence fee 'refuseniks' already include TV presenter Noel Edmonds,
and there are claims that the BBC is running scared of prosecuting those who
refuse to pay the £139.50 annual levy on the grounds it is unjustified.

It has been alleged that the corporation fears creating a group of licence fee
'martyrs' if it enters into high-profile prosecutions of well-known faces. Many
ordinary members of the public say they have been the victim of 'bullyboy'
tactics.

Some claim to have received more than 80 warning letters threatening court
action and a possible £1,000 fine even when they do not own a TV or have paid.

Edmonds has said he has stopped paying his licence fee because of its
'threatening' advertising campaigns.

He has effectively challenged them to prosecute him after he decided to take a
stand against the negative and aggressive tactics of collection.

So far he claims no action has been taken against him by TV Licensing (TVL), the
organisation which manages the payments on behalf of the BBC.

Last night he said: 'My point is quite simple. It is not about the value of the
licence fee. What I object to is the BBC's lack of positivity in celebrating
what they do.

'They have slipped into the zone where they have become quite sinister about the
way they collect the licence fee.' Outspoken radio host James Whale renewed his
attack on the licence fee yesterday saying he 'vehemently' opposed the 'illegal
tax'.

While he said he had now bought a licence fee he would not deny that in the past
he had not paid it out of principal. He also condemned the aggressive antics of
the licence fee collectors, claiming his wife had been left 'upset' by the way
they had behaved.

Former Russian dissident Vladimir Bukovsky decided not to renew his licence in
2002 claiming it had failed to provide fair coverage of major world issues. Mr
Bukovsky, 65, from Cambridge, said he still does not have a licence and has not
been prosecuted yet.

Speaking at the weekend Mr Bukovsky said that 2,000 people who had joined his
non-payment campaign had also not had any legal action against them.

He said: 'It seems the BBC didn't want to walk into a trap and make me a
martyr.' Another opponent of the fee who has not been paying it since 2002 is
John Kelly, 70, of Exmouth, Devon, who is a member of the UK Independence Party.
He ripped his up in protest at what he perceived as the BBC's pro-EU bias. The
Communications Act 2003 makes it an offence to install or use a 'television
receiver' to get any service without a valid licence fee.

Anyone caught watching or recording TV programmes without a valid licence risks
prosecution in a magistrates court and a fine of up to £1,000.

TVL claims its fleet of vans is capable of detecting the use of TV receiving
equipment within 20 seconds.

If evaders refuse to pay the fine, they can be jailed. The average sentence is
one week. TVL prosecuted 151,137 people last year.

It has a comprehensivedatabase of almost 30million addresses. One recent TVL
advert - with a soundtrack of helicopter blades, barking dogs, a siren and a
knock at the door - warned: 'Your town, your street, your home & it is all in
our database.' Last night a spokesman for TVL said: 'TVL can and does prosecute
people who refuse to pay the licence fee, whatever their reasons for doing so.'
Many people have contacted Mail Online to back the campaigning of those refusing
to pay the licence fee.

One said they would not be paying next year if Jonathan Ross is still on the
payroll.

Another said they had stopped paying for it two years ago but made a point of
not watching BBC shows.

p.revoir@dailymail.co.uk

KICK IN THE TEETH TO MY COUNTRY AND MY VALUES

CHARLES MOORE (pictured) is a former editor of the Daily Telegraph, a columnist
for The Spectator magazine and Margaret Thatcher's official biographer.

He says: WHEN my licence fee expires, I will not be renewing it. It is an unfair
form of taxation.

Although there is some force in the argument that it goes towards supporting
public service broadcasting, when you see both the amount of money that is being
paid to Jonathan Ross and the sort of unpleasant programmes that he makes, then
you realise just how bogus that argument is.

It is said that if you don't like it, you don't have to watch it.

Fine, I don't like sport and I don't watch it, but I still think that it is
worthwhile for the BBC to broadcast sporting events.

However, I do not think that programmes featuring Ross and Russell Brand are
worthwhile.

It's not that I'm just not interested in their programmes, I'm insulted by them
and I do not want to pay money for something I am insulted by.

Such programmes do not live up to the BBC charter. In fact, they are debasing
it, and the fact that the BBC refuses to acknowledge this simply proves that it
is not telling the truth about it being a public service broadcaster.

I have a television in the country, but I don't have one in my London flat. Yet
despite this, I have been sent 30 abusive letters telling me that I am an evader
and they are coming to get me.

The £139.50 a year tax has always been indefensible in principle, and now it is
intolerable in practice. Yes, I like large parts of Radio 4 and Radio 3.

But why should this be used as blackmail by which I can only have them if I hand
over much larger sums so that people like Ross can kick my country and my values
in the teeth? My own modest contribution will be as follows. If Ross is still in
post when my television licence next comes up for renewal, I shall keep my
television, but refuse to pay the fee. I don't want to profit from it, so
instead I shall hand over the £139.50 to Help the Aged, mainly because Ross and
Brand were picking on a grandfather - namely Andrew Sachs.

I certainly think most of the hurtful mockery that goes on is directed at older
people, not only with Andrew Sachs, but the joke about the Queen on Mock The
Week for example, and the denigration of old people on Little Britain.

There's a lot of bullying and contempt shown for the old on these programmes -
they think it's funny but it isn't.

I'm not leading a campaign but I'm happy that other people are doing the same
thing. I think it is a good thing to do..

FED UP WITH ITS POLITICAL CORRECTNESS

ROBIN PAGE (pictured) is the former presenter of BBC series One Man And His Dog
and chairman of the Countryside Restoration Trust. He says: I'M fed up with all
of the rubbish on the BBC, I'm fed up with the political correctness on the BBC,
and I'm fed up with the politically-correct people running the BBC.

I don't see why I should be expected to pay when the BBC refuses to represent
normal people and refuses to provide a broad variety of programming.

There is a profound bias against the countryside at the BBC, and even the
programmes that are meant to represent the countryside such as Countryfile and
SpringWatch are so politically correct that I just can't watch them.

It's not just me who thinks this, either. There is a wide range of outrage out
there, but at the moment it seems that we are being completely ignored.

I've been arrested for speaking my '

mind, and to be honest, I've felt quite vulnerable about not paying the licence
fee in the past. But like they say, there's strength in numbers, and if more
people decide not to pay the fee, then what are they going to do? I think it's a
valid thing to refuse to pay it. If enough of us stop paying, then the
Government will be forced to take action..

WHAT YOU'RE SAYING ABOUT ...

THE LICENCE FEE 'I stopped paying the TV licence more than two years ago and I
haven't listened to or watched the BBC's output since. I don't feel in any way
whatsoever that I have been disadvantaged.' GERALD, Southampton Reader comments
posted on our website yesterday 'I won't be paying mine next year if Ross is
still on the payroll. I don't see why I should pay this foul-mouthed oaf.'
ALICE, Poole 'Perhaps the Government had better start building gulags to cope
with the numbers of dissident TV licence payers.' PETER, Worthing ' Have YOUR
say on all the big stories at www.dailymail.co.uk

'Sinister about the way they collect the fee

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Outrage: Brand and Ross during their radio stunt

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 18, 2008 Tuesday
                                  1ST Edition

Has Brussels been driving us all bananas?;
DEBATE

SECTION: Pg. 59

LENGTH: 402 words


WITH its announcement that it is to scrap regulations governing the shape and
size of vegetables and fruit, the EU is trying to appear virtuous. It always
claimed the rules were introduced at the behest of the fruit and veg industry.
Now Agriculture Commissioner Mrs Fischer Boel says: 'It's far better to leave it
to market operators.' Quite right -- so why pretend for all these years that the
same market operators wanted the rules themselves? The relevant page on the
Commission's so-called 'euro myths' website claims nothing was banned under the
old rules. If so, why is it now crowing that the new rules will allow national
authorities to permit the sale of all fruit and vegetables, regardless of their
size and shape? And why has the Commission craftily omitted any reference to EU
standards governing bananas, perhaps the most infamous of all these rules? The
EU doesn't need to adopt any rules regarding the slipperiness of banana skins --
it sets unmatchable standards in slipperiness itself.

ROGER KNAPMAN, MEP, UKIP, South-West Counties.

A FIFTH of fruit and vegetables are rejected because they do not meet EU
directives about shape. For example, it is illegal to sell straight bananas or
curved cucumbers. Food in Britain would be a lot cheaper without all the EU
regulations about food sizes and shapes.

STEVE HALDEN, Swindon, Wilts.

THE European Commission has never claimed that marketing standards for fruit and
vegetables don't exist. We have explained consistently why the rules were
introduced 20 years ago, but they have outlived their useful lives and current
Agriculture Commissioner Mariann Fischer Boel wanted to get rid of them. We
shouldn't be regulating this at EU level and, in this era of high food prices,
we shouldn't be throwing away good food just because of what it looks like. This
is part of the Commission's campaign to reduce the administrative burden by 25
per cent by 2012.

It's wrong to claim that the rules don't apply to non-EU fruit. They applied
(but will no longer apply) to all fruit and veg sold in the EU.

There are some basic marketing standards for bananas, but there is no 'bendy
banana' ban. The idea that we regulate their degree of bendiness is an urban
myth. It takes quite a leap of the imagination to turn a major cut in EU red
tape into an exercise in Brussels-bashing.

MICHAEL MANN, European Commission Agriculture and Rural Development spokesman,
Brussels..

LOAD-DATE: November 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 17, 2008 Monday
                                 First Edition

Pandora

BYLINE: ALICE-AZANIA JARVIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 739 words


BBC's Prix is not right for Murray

FORMULA ONE boss Bernie Ecclestone may claim that moving the sport from ITV to
the BBC won't harm its coverage, but others in the racing world aren't so
sanguine.

Veteran pundit Murray Walker, left - who worked at both stations during 52 years
as a Grand Prix commentator, and is about to release a DVD - tells me he's less
than confident about the corporation's ability to live up to its rival's
standard.

"ITV devoted a lot more time to Formula One than the BBC ever did and they did
an absolutely superb job," says Walker.

"One thing that is clear is that the BBC hasn't got the rights back as a result
of competition. They will have a hard furrow to plough to even match the ITV
coverage."

Despite having spent most of his career working for the Beeb, Walker insists
that when he moved to ITV, he noticed several major improvements in the way the
sport was treated.

"The last time the BBC had it they didn't appreciate how important it was. They
didn't devote the right people and facilities.

"ITV spent a great deal on those rights and they made the most of them. They
made sure they had the right people, they brought in experts - people like Tony
Jardine. They devoted a lot more time than the BBC ever did."

Jake does not believe in Marriage

SOMETHING TELLS me Jake Chapman might want to work on his marketing skills.

Better known as one half of Brit Art's rebellious duo, the Chapman brothers, he
is currently performing the hard sell on a solo project: his debut novel, The
Marriage Of Love And Squalor.

Or not, as the case may be.

During a promotional talk at Foyles, Chapman went out of his way to emphasise
the strong points of his work.

Explaining the book to art historian Tim Marlow, he observed: "Reading it is
rather like sucking a lemon. What I've done is use a terminal misuse of
metaphor, making it very difficult for the book to be understood.

"I've always been turgid, dark and venturing on the suicidal with controversial
themes. This is no exploration into something spontaneous, fresh and bouncy, and
if someone's thinking that's what it is, they shouldn't read the book. Actually,
maybe no one should read it at all? Yes, don't read it."

Sounds like a real page-turner, Jake.

Kim heads into the interior

It seems that an unlikely career move is in store for Kimberly Stewart, daughter
of kitten-heeled rocker Rod. The leggy socialite tells me that she hopes to add
a further suffix to her already-lengthy job description of
heiress-model-actress-TV presenter.

"Actually, I'm hoping to go into interior design," she enthuses. "I moved to
London a while ago and have been doing up my new place. I got really into it and
now I'm thinking that it's something I should like to do more of in the future."

While it is unclear just how the nation's design community feels about the added
competition, Pandora suspects that they are not quaking in their boots.

Backing away from the Leader

People with whom one wouldn't wish to be associated: Pol Pot, Saddam Hussein and
quite probably, Gary Glitter.

Pandora can't help but feel a twinge of sympathy for the disgraced rocker's
erstwhile backing band the Glitter Band. Contemplating a comeback album, the
diamante-studded quintet are distancing themselves from their former leader. In
an interview with music website The Quietus, they attack Glitter as a prima
donna, moaning: "He insisted on staying in a hotel while the band shared bunk
beds behind the stage. We've not spoken to Gary for 30 years. And we have to
speak about him: the tabloids ring all the time."

UKIP sniping over Kilroy's exploits

HE'S ONLY been in there for a day, but already Robert Kilroy-Silk's presence on
I'm a Celebrity Get Me Out of Here is causing backbiting in Brussels. Members of
the vociferous MEP's former party, UKIP, are doing their best to make sure
Kilroy doesn't profit from his TV exploits.

One asked: "As he will not be in Parliament,I wonder if he will give his wage
and allowances to a suitable charity?"

Paxman playing up the theatrical

JEREMY PAXMAN'S rapid-fire questioning has won him a spot as one of the BBC's
most generously paid journalists, but one person it fails to impress is his
former co-presenter Valerie Singleton. Of his talent for voluble enunciation,
she tells me: "I always wanted to say 'look Jeremy, it's all right - they're
just sitting in their lounges, not at the back of the theatre', but it wasn't
really up to me."

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               November 16, 2008

BBC shies from fight with licence rebels

BYLINE:  Dipesh Gadher

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg.11

LENGTH: 697 words


TV Public figures refusing to pay the fee are being let off to avoid making them
heroes, writes Dipesh Gadher

THE BBC is failing to prosecute viewers who refuse to pay the television licence
on principle amid claims that the corporation fears creating a wave of
"martyrs".

The band of licence-fee refuseniks include Vladimir Bukovsky, a former Russian
dissident, Noel Edmonds, the television presenter, and Eurosceptics who believe
the BBC is politically biased.

Charles Moore, a columnist for The Spectator magazine, has said he will not
renew his TV licence if the corporation continues to employ Jonathan Ross, the
disgraced chat show host who is paid £ 6m a year.

The BBC's approach to such viewers contrasts with the "bullyboy" tactics it
employs to force others to pay the £ 139.50 annual levy. Some people have
received more than 80 warning letters, threatening prosecution and a maximum £
1,000 fine, even though they have paid or do not own a television.

Bukovsky, who spent more than 10 years in Soviet labour camps and psychiatric
hospitals, decided not to renew his TV licence in 2002. He claimed the BBC had
breached its royal charter which requires the broadcaster to provide fair and
balanced coverage of issues such as the European Union and the Middle East.

Six years later, Bukovsky, 65, of Cambridge, revealed that he still does not
have a TV licence and has never been prosecuted.

He claimed that 2,000 people who joined his non-payment campaign have also not
had any legal action brought against them, although TV Licensing (TVL), the body
that collects the levy on behalf of the BBC, disputes this.

"Virtually no one was bothered," said Bukovsky. "It seems the BBC didn't want to
walk into the trap and make me a martyr. I wanted people to see images of me
being handcuffed and dragged into court ... but instead the BBC retreated
quietly."

Another viewer who has been watching television without a licence since 2002 is
John Kelly, 70, of Exmouth, Devon. Kelly, a member of the UK Independence party,
tore up his TV licence in protest against what he perceived as the BBC's pro-EU
bias.

"I want them to summons me (to court); I want them to prosecute me," said Kelly.

"By failing to pursue me, the BBC is implicitly accepting my case and others may
be encouraged to pursue the same course."

Edmonds, who worked at the BBC for 30 years and now presents programmes on
Channel 4 and Sky One, handed back his licence earlier this year because he was
angered by "threatening" BBC adverts that promise to catch evaders.

One advert, which has now been pulled, warned: "Your town, your street, your
home ... it's all in the database," over the menacing soundtrack of helicopters,
sirens and barking dogs.

Edmonds, 59, said he wanted the BBC to place more emphasis on the "value for
money" it provides, rather than using "bullyboy tactics to extract money from
people". "When they are more celebratory about what the service is worth, I will
happily start paying my licence fee again," he told The Sunday Times.

Other potential TV licence rebels object to paying on grounds of taste and
decency. Moore has singled out the vulgar antics of Ross, suspended for three
months after leaving obscene phone messages for Andrew Sachs, the Fawlty Towers
actor, during a Radio 2 show. Ross has also been criticised for offering sex to
Gwyneth Paltrow, a guest on his BBC1 chat show.

"I don't think it's right to pay the licence fee for something which is
insulting to the public," said Moore.

Meanwhile, doubts have been raised about TVL's ability to prosecute people who
watch live television on computers or mobile phones. The BBC plans to
simultaneoulsy broadcast all its channels on television and online. Viewers who
choose to watch so-called "simulcasts" on laptops, PCs or mobiles still require
a licence.

Experts believe TVL would struggle to prove what a user has been watching
without infringing their privacy by accessing their computer or obtaining
information from internet service providers.

It prosecuted 151,137 people last year and insisted that among them were those
who objected to the fee on principle.

LOAD-DATE: November 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: st


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 14, 2008 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

KILROY THE JUNGLE CREEPY CRAWLIE

BYLINE: JON CRUDDAS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 115 words


I SEE Kilroy is heading to the jungle for the latest series of I'm a
Celebrity... Get Me Out of Here!

Remember him? He was the orange-tanned daytime TV host who got elected to the
European Parliament on the UKIP ticket.

He immediately tried to become party leader, only to discover they already had
one. So he stormed out and set up his own party, figuring that was a surefire
way to the top.

He then resigned the leadership of his own party (perhaps in protest at his own
leadership) and gave up politics - but not his salary.

You wouldn't think he'd need to top up his pay packet, or his tan, but he must
be used to the law of the jungle.

I'd advise his fellow D-list celebs to watch their backs.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 14, 2008 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

YES WE CAN LEARN LESSON FROM OBAMA, MR BROWN

BYLINE: JON CRUDDAS

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 486 words


PRESIDENT-ELECT Obama. I still can't get used to the title.

That America elected its first black President is still sinking in.

Although we need to be realistic about what he can and will do as President,
it's an amazing event - especially after eight years of George W Bush.

What's struck me about Obama is how popular he is here in Britain. Not just
among voters, but among politicians of all stripes.

Everyone is jumping on the "Yes We Can-wagon". David Cameron and Alex Salmond
have tried to compare themselves to him.

Even Nigel Farage, the leader of ultraeurosceptic UK Independence Party, jumped
on board by publicly sending his congratulations - though I'm guessing he isn't
in line for a return call.

Everyone wants a piece of the magic. But then when you look at some of the
policies that Obama is pushing, you discover that British politicians are more
likely to say "no you can't" than "yes we can".

Despite the Republican spin in the election, Obama is no socialist.

But he sure ain't a conservative either. His policies are an imaginative mix
which will use the influence and leadership of government to help ordinary
Americans get back on their feet after the credit crunch.

Take taxes - issue of the week here at Westminster.

Obama plans to close the loophole that allows major corporations to evade
billions in taxes by registering in tax havens.

I totally agree. Tax justice campaigners reckon that Britain loses about pounds
33billion a year due to big business doing the same - avoiding their obligations
to our country.

But that's one Obama bandwagon that British politicians don't seem too keen to
get on.

Obama also plans to rebalance the tax system so that working class and middle
class families pay less and the rich pay their fair share.

This is another policy Brown should import from America if he wants to really be
compared to Obama.

So come on Gordon, let's clamp down on this tax avoidance and use the money to
help those who really need it.

And there are plenty of other ideas in there too - Obama is finally raising the
minimum wage to EUR9.50 (pounds 6.40) an hour and ensuring it will go up every
year.

But only this week a Cabinet Minister who should have known better was
suggesting that paying a living wage would cause dangerous inflation.

Of all the problems our economy faces, I don't think the danger of lowpaid
workers getting a well-earned rise is one.

Bottom line is that these ideas aren't the policies of a conservative.

They don't want to see the government helping people out-they are only
pretending.

Obama offers hope that the American dream will be back on offer to every
American.

Tories like David Cameron and Boris Johnson are missing the point when they
pretend to be the British Obama.

But Gordon Brown also needs to learn the right lessons. He must look at some of
these radical ideas and say "yes we can". And he has to deliver on it.

HERE WE ARE MORE LIKELY TO SAY 'NO WE CAN'T'

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           November 13, 2008 Thursday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Veg rule chopped

SECTION: NEWS; 9

LENGTH: 110 words


THE return of curvy cucumbers and knobbly carrots to the supermarket was hailed
as a victory for common sense yesterday.

European Union rules on veg shape and size were scrapped on advice from the
European Commission.

"This marks a new dawn. It's a concrete example of our drive to cut unnecessary
red tape, " declared EU Agriculture Commissioner Marianne Fischer Boel.

A spokesman for the UK Government's Department of Agriculture, Fisheries and
Rural Affairs said it was "a sensible first step on the way to further
streamlining of the regulations".

UK Independence Party leader and MEP Nigel Farage added: "This is a rare moment
of sense in an otherwise mad world."

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 13, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 682 words


They know all about action, adventure and danger at Pinewood Studios. The 39
Steps was filmed there, the first Batman, Mission: Impossible, and the movies of
James Bond. But the one they will have had in mind yesterday will have been
Alien; for while so much goes right there, sometimes things go wrong, and so it
is that managers at the Buckinghamshire site have been forced to circulate an
email warning staff they may encounter scorpions following a mishap during a
production, thought to be the forthcoming Jake Gyllenhaal epic, Prince of
Persia: The Sands of Time. It is thought the beasties hitched a lift back to the
UK after an overseas shoot. Two have been found - one live, one dead - and pest
controllers have done their thing, but staff are wary. The emperor scorpion, the
prime suspect and one of the largest such creatures in the world, has a pinch
sufficient to snap a pencil and a sting capable of inflicting severe pain.
Managers called for vigilance; next they'll be calling for Indiana Jones. Hope
they've saved a few thrills for the film itself.

"(I) noticed recently that the Daily Mail, gods bless them, announced that I
can't dress myself," reports the writer Terry Pratchett, keeping fans up to date
with his battle against Alzheimer's. "This must have come as a huge surprise,
not least to me, since I dressed myself this morning." If he knows much about
the Mail, he won't do it again.

And our top story: BBC News staff in London told to go home or maybe take a long
lunch because a burst water main prevents the toilets working. Staff essential
to the live evening broadcasts are told to use the pub facilities over the road.
Incredibly, some return.

To the World Travel Market beano in east London, where Iceland's bankruptcy has
not stopped it sending 30 representatives. "We had 62,000 British visitors last
year, slightly more this year," one official says. The task now is to maintain
that figure - and who says they won't? It's all there: geysers, waterfalls,
empty vaults.

A supportive crowd watches Steve Coogan launch forth with his show Alan
Partridge and Other Less Successful Characters in the West End. Cooing
approvingly are Jimmy Carr, Victoria Wood, Rob Brydon and Jerry Hall, sucking on
Maltesers. Coogan, some say, is distressingly attractive portraying his comely,
sexually athletic alter ego, Pauline Calf. "He would make a great woman," Brydon
tells us. "I think we all fancy him a bit." Later Coogan, as Partridge, reveals
that his premier creation owes much to Jeremy Clarkson, of which we approve; but
much less creditable is his assumption that he can spot our operatives on sight
in the audience. "See that guy on the front row with the glasses, he's from the
Guardian. They will hate this," he says. But he is wrong, in this as in so many
things. We like it. And we are in row P.

Finally, though some will say that Robert Kilroy-Silk's decision to appear on
I'm a Celebrity . . . Get Me Out of Here has everything to do with the
"eye-watering" fees available, we prefer to see it as an oppor tunity grasped by
the MEP to further engage the young in the political process. George Galloway
did Big Brother and, two years later, Barack Obama was elected president. And
yet many do wonder how the ex-TV presenter earns his extra crust; and the lack
of certainty leads some to ask whether Kilroy-Silk has indeed found innovative
ways to raise funds. Conservative MEPs Roger Helmer and Christopher
Heaton-Harris are leading on this, and the best info they have so far emerged in
Ypres - where Helmer, returning from a Remembrance Day parade, spied a lingerie
establishment called Veritas, apparently named after the party Kilroy-Silk
founded in 2005 when he flounced away from Ukip. Excited, the MEPs circulated a
press release outlining their findings. They also took a picture. "Looks like
Veritas has gone bust," quips Heaton-Harris. But is this in any way worse than
cadging funds for party activity from dodgy Russians? Suppose Kilroy has found a
harmless way to oil his political machine. Why should we mock? Why not applaud?

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                           November 13, 2008 Thursday

Kilroy's a jungle genius

BYLINE: John Smeaton

SECTION: SMEATO; OPINION

LENGTH: 106 words


FOR once I might actually watch the new series of I'm A Celebrity...Get Me Out
Of Here.

I am intriqued to see how Robert Kilroy-Silk is going get on in the jungle.

I used to enjoy watching the sickly smoothie telly host on daytime TV.

Sure he was as cheesy as hell, but he was also quite likeable.

Then, for reasons unknown, he jacked it all in to front extremist political
party UK Independence Party.

But adding him to the show is a masterstroke.

Not only is he an egotistical former TV presenter, but he's also a blabbermouth
right-wing politician.

I'm predicting he'll be the first contestant in the show's history to be
battered senseless.

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                          November 12, 2008 Wednesday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

THE CHARMER

SECTION: NEWS; 4

LENGTH: 92 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk Age: 66.

Occupation: Te l ly presenter and politician.

Phobias: None.

Special skills: Chopping wood.

THE ex-chat show host, who admits he is a control freak, will stir things up in
the bush. The outspoken former MP's talk show was axed by the Beeb after he was
accused of writing a racist article. Likely to see himself as a leader after
becoming an MEP for UKIP and founding his own party, Veritas. He says: "My wife
would say I'm difficult.

My daughter would say I'm difficult. My son would say I'm difficult. So I assume
I'm difficult."

LOAD-DATE: November 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 10, 2008 Monday

This is no way to protect against fraud

BYLINE:  Marta Andreassen

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.24

LENGTH: 459 words


* The Brussels accounts scandal must be stopped

Here we go again. Today, for the 14th year in a row, the European Court of
Auditors will unveil their report, telling us that they refuse to clear the EU
accounts. What's worse, no one will really seem to care. We are told that the
accounts won't be cleared until 2020 - if then.

Having worked inside the Brussels nomenklatura and having being sacked for my
insistence that financial controls have to be strengthened, I am not surprised
to find that nothing has changed other than the arguments deployed to defend
this state of affairs. What the auditors have been saying for years is that most
of the payments made by the Commission from its £ 70 billion-a- year budget
cannot be deemed legal or regular. That is, that they cannot confirm those
payments have been made to the correct person for the correct purpose and for
the correct amount. It stretches credulity to insist, as the Europhiles do, that
this does not mean that there is fraud.

Because the payments are made to beneficiaries in the member countries it's easy
enough for the institutions to put the blame on those recipients. Which is what
they do, claiming that the problem is one of insufficient attention being paid
to the paperwork. But who designed the paperwork that no one understands or
completes? And who doesn't insist on it being completed? The institutions
themselves, of course. Because this control is missing there is no way to
protect against fraud or even to uncover it.

We might not expect the European Union to be whiter than white, but we should at
least hold them to the standard of being competent. Who is to blame for this
situation? The Members of the European Parliament. For those 14 years they've
been allowing this situation to continue.

It's not just that too many have gone native, dreaming of their part in
constructing that shimmering vision of "Europe". It's that they've forgotten
what a Parliament is for, which is not simply to pass legislation, but to hold
those who implement it to account. Only a complete cynic would note that those
who do complain, those who do insist that this situation must change, start to
find their own activities, their own expense accounts, say, subjected to audits
of much greater detailed scrutiny than are applied to the accounts as a whole.

The Euro-elections in June 2009 offer the public a chance to elect those who
will defend their interests, who will insist on controlling where their money is
going. The EU costs Britons £ 40 million a day and we all deserve that so much
of what is ours is not wasted in fraud.

Marta Andreassen was the chief accountant for the European Commission. She is
standing for the UK Independence Party in the SE Region

LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                November 9, 2008

7 days: People: Ideas: Gossip: Putting the boot in on friendship

BYLINE: David Mitchell

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 914 words


I felt a bit sorry for the UK Independence party last week, which is a new
experience for me. It was put in the humiliating position of having to respond
to a British National party overture suggesting that Ukip and the BNP co-operate
at the next European election.

This is the political equivalent of being at some do stuck talking to a bigoted
drunk with halitosis, who keeps scratching his arse and sniffing and then says:
'I can tell we're very much alike. I know where you're coming from, you know
where I'm coming from. . . let's be friends.'

Not all compliments, it turns out, are worth having.

Ukip struggles to present itself as a respectable political force with a
civilised agenda, rather than a bunch of grouchy extremists who haven't quite
got the courage of their convictions. It has to fight hard to dismiss
suggestions from the political mainstream or, as Ukip would probably call it,
the left, that they're basically a little bit envious, a little bit hatey, a
little bit weird. The main parties imply that there's definitely at least the
suspicion of racism about them, even if it only manifests itself as limp,
stand-offish xenophobia most of the time.

Ukip can reject these insinuations as exactly what the main parties are bound to
say about a legitimate potential competitor from the right wing. But this
argument falls down when the BNP pitches in and effectively says: 'Oh yeah, we
always assumed you were basically a bunch of racists as well. Not that we mind,
obviously.' When Labour, the Lib Dems, the Tories and the BNP are all agreed on
something, then we'd better hope that they're right or we're going to need a new
political system.

Because the BNP is clearly worried that the presence of Ukip risks splitting the
arsehole vote - a vote that Ukip may not court like the BNP does, but would
certainly take if it was offered. The trouble with the kind of dog-whistle
politics that Ukip practises is that, every so often, it's going to cause a dog
to publicly hump its leg.

The metaphorical dog in this instance is former British tennis star Buster
Mottram, a man who has dabbled in politics before. He flirted with the National
Front - again this is a metaphor, as to do this literally would be to run all
sorts of grisly risks - tried to become a Conservative MP a few times and then
joined Ukip.

And so things stood until a few days ago when Mottram turned up uninvited to a
meeting of the Ukip national executive. I imagine them sitting at a huge
conference table in front of a map of the world with every country except
Britain crossed out. He proposed the BNP-Ukip pact and then, according to the
Ukip website, 'had to be escorted out by uniformed police officers', presumably
because he'd eaten all the biscuits. (Incidentally, talking of the Ukip website,
I was disappointed that the link 'Ukip shop' just takes you back to the home
page. I was hoping to order a Ukip English-Polish phrase book, a Ukip spaghetti
server and a Ukip
pen-with-a-lady-on-it-that-when-you-tip-it-the-lady-goes-nude.)

The awkward position Ukip has been put in by this public offer of undermining
friendship from an embarrassing source should be familiar to us all. John McCain
would recognise it as the feeling he got when Dick Cheney put the final nail in
the coffin of his campaign by saying he supported it. Only the Democrats wanted
to publicise that, as Cheney has used the vice-presidency to transform himself
into one of the few things on Earth that a cat wouldn't piss on.

I remember it from school when a boy in my year who was being bullied - I won't
disclose his real name but let's call him Buster Mottram - tried to make friends
with me. Buster Mottram was not a bad child and he didn't have horrible opinions
(unlike Buster Mottram) but he was social death.

I was not particularly popular, although I got by, but I was bitterly aware that
my faltering prestige could not take the weight of Buster Mottram's disastrous
unpopularity (I mean the boy from my school, not Buster Mottram - I hope I
haven't made this confusing). The friendship of the captain of the rugby team
himself, which wasn't me, you may be surprised to learn, could barely have
restored Buster Mottram's reputation. He would only drag me down with him and
the next thing I knew we'd both be being rolled up in a rug and stuck on top of
the lockers. His friendship I could do without.

I'm aware that this story hardly makes me seem like a hero. You're probably
thinking that, if my politics were different and I'd been in the Ukip meeting, I
would've just sat quietly by and let Buster Mottram have his way with the
custard creams (I'm talking about the former world number 15, not my
contemporary from school). And there are much better reasons for shrugging off a
BNP offer of friendship than merely that it's the runt of the political litter.
But both stories share the same bitter taste of unwanted goodwill.

The fact that some people's endorsement is of limited value must be occurring to
the supermarket chain Iceland at the moment. It emerged last week that it has
arranged for Kerry Katona, who does its adverts, to have medical tests to see if
she's an alcoholic. No one said whether it wants to check whether she is or she
isn't, but maybe she's become a bit too 'no frills' even for Iceland's brand. It
booked an accessible 'girl next door' type and has ended up with a bankrupt who
loses weight by surgery. It may soon come to feel that it would be better off
with Buster Mottram (either one).


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                November 9, 2008

Comment: Everyone will want a special relationship with Obama: Other leaders may
look ridiculous as they jostle to get close to him, but they're right to assume
he'll be a two-term President

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 1503 words


There's a fabulous scene in The Commitments when the band try to get themselves
into the mood to make soul music by chanting: 'I'm black! And I'm proud!' It is
funny, of course, because they are all white.

That was brought to mind by the even more hilarious spectacle of our politicians
and other leaders around the world shamelessly jostling to try to grab a piece
of Barack Obama and his fantastic triumph. Gordon Brown was desperate for us to
know that he had an extraordinarily warm 10 minutes of phone conversation with
the President-elect. Nicolas Sarkozy retaliated by having his spinners at the
Elysee Palace brief that the French President had a full half hour of phone sex
with the next occupant of the White House. 'But 15 minutes of that was
translation,' one of Mr Brown's senior aides scoffed to me on Friday.

A new race to the White House - a contest to be the first European leader to get
a stiffy to visit President Obama - has already started. Who wins that
competition may be very misleading about which foreign leader will ultimately
matter most to the Obama administration. Jacques Chirac beat Tony Blair across
the Atlantic when George Bush entered the White House in 2001. But it was Chirac
who opposed the Iraq war and Blair who bound himself to Bush. That said, I still
wouldn't want to be the official who has to tell Gordon Brown that Sarko has
stolen a march on him.

The Prime Minister can at least be confident that he will beat all his domestic
rivals to Obama. One of the many joys of his victory has been watching David
Cameron, the Tory son of a stockbroker who is married to the daughter of an
aristocrat, claiming political kinship with an American liberal whose dad came
from rural Kenya and whose mum had to make ends meet with food stamps. In the
lovely joke of Olly Grender, the Tory leader will be claiming next that he is
descended from a long line of old Etonian goatherds.

As for Mr Brown, the 57-year-old Son of the Manse who was originally rooting for
Hillary Clinton, he would like us to believe that he pulled off two astounding
election victories last week. There was the surprise byelection win in
Glenrothes - a surprise anyway to Mr Brown who went to bed on Thursday night
thinking that Labour had lost the seat because his aides told him that the
Nationalists had them beat. And then there was that other election which Mr
Brown likes to interpret as 70 million Americans being inspired to surge to the
polling stations by his global vision.

I spent the American election night at the excellent party thrown by the US
embassy in London. As the scale of Obama's achievement unfolded, Tory
politicians were eager to impress on me the thought that it vindicated their
leader's change strategy while their Labour rivals claimed it as a triumph for
their progressive values. Desperate to find a seat for Nick Clegg on the already
crowded bandwagon, a senior Lib Dem buttonholed me to be sure I was aware of the
similarities between Obama's plans for tax cuts and those put forward by the Lib
Dems. Alex Salmond has been trying to gain some reflected glory for the SNP by
claiming Scottish ancestry for Obama. Alas for the Nationalists, in Glenrothes
it was a case of: 'Oh no, we can't.' Nigel Farrage was keen for me to know that
he had sent a message of congratulations to the President-elect on behalf of the
UK Independence party. I am sure that must have thrilled Obama almost as much as
winning Virginia.

When his daughters come to choose the White House dog that he has promised them,
they may like to know that there are plenty of British politicians with their
tongues hanging out to be First Puppy.

It's preposterous. David Cameron is not the British Obama just because they both
like to use the word 'change' a lot. Gordon Brown, a long-serving incumbent
whose oratory has rarely been described as magical, cannot be Obama either. Much
of the point about Obama is that there is no other leader like him. Not here.
Not in America. Not anywhere. Not in a generation and probably not for another.
His singularity is why he won and why his victory is so sensational.

Risible though they look, it is entirely understandable that other leaders are
competing to define themselves in terms of Obama. Not only is he the most
glamorous politician on Earth, he will soon be the most powerful man on the
planet as well. His actions and reactions will hugely shape political positions,
reputations and arguments around the globe. Within the British government, I
find undisguised relief that the barren age of Bush is almost over, some
exhilaration about the possibilities of an Obama era, tempered with realism
about what he can actually deliver. They are, you might say, soberly intoxicated
by his victory.

Among the reasons for caution there is acknowledgement that he may be too
preoccupied at home to give the rest of the planet a great deal of his
attention, at least at the beginning of his presidency. Americans seem pleased
that they have elected a leader who inspires the rest of the globe, but they
will not expect him to be a World President. Their concerns will be his first
priority. His primary focus will have to be the dire state of America's economy
which he put at the centre of his campaign. Gordon Brown's hope is that this
offers the Prime Minister the chance to make Obama an ally for his agenda of
reforming global financial institutions and regulation.

Expect some choppiness across the Atlantic over trade. I've spoken to several
ministers and officials who maintain that Obama is intellectually a free trader.
But he will not be able to retreat entirely from the protectionist noises he
made on the stump, especially not when the new Congress will be packed with
Democrats screaming for tariff walls to protect American jobs. The expectation
at the Foreign Office is that the world trade talks are doomed to go nowhere,
which will be a blow to Gordon Brown when he has invested so much capital in
getting a deal.

Iraq and Afghanistan are the sharp end of the partnership between Britain and
the United States. Senior members of the British government quite candidly
confess: 'We don't have a particularly clear view about what they want to do.'

Among the reasons to be hopeful are that he will be much more engaged on climate
change and nuclear proliferation. They hope he will want to re-energise the
Middle East peace process. Then there is the simple but overarching fact that
the transatlantic relationship is going to be much less painfully contorted for
Britain with a thoughtful multilateralist in the White House who has dedicated
himself to repairing America's relations and reputation with the world.

A successful Obama presidency will be genuinely desired by both Gordon Brown and
David Cameron. In the case of the Tory leader, for the tactical reason that it
helps to kill the charge that it is too risky to let novices become leaders. In
the case of Mr Brown, because he hopes an achieving Democrat President will set
a global ideological tone that helps his case and his causes. Both also want him
to be a success because, in common with most Britons, they are Atlanticists. All
who admire the United States yearn for an America which is easier to like and
work with than it has been for the past eight years.

It is undeniable that expectations of Obama are unfeasibly stratospheric. One of
his challenges will be gently to bring them down to a more manageable level. He
began that with his victory speech in Chicago's Grant Park. While the speech
soared, it still kept its feet planted on the ground. He was careful to warn:
'The road ahead will be long. Our climb will be steep. We may not get there in
one year or even one term.' The cool operator is already seeding the argument
for his second term.

Barring an awful event, my strong hunch is that we are looking at a two-term
President. There will be ways in which he is disappointing to both his own
country and the world. All inspiring new leaders bring with them the
inevitability of future disenchantment. I'm nevertheless minded to place a bet
on Obama winning by a landslide in 2012. I say this, first, because he is an
extraordinarily impressive politician. I say it also because Americans who
wouldn't vote for him this time on account of his lack of executive experience
will have had that doubt answered if he proves to be a competent
commander-in-chief. Demographics look to be on his side too. His advantages will
further grow if the defeated Republicans go to war with themselves.

History is another strong indicator that he will have two terms in the White
House. Presidents who take office at dark hours for America - think Abraham
Lincoln, think FDR and also Ronald Reagan - tend to be significant Presidents
who get re-elected by big margins.

So politicians the world over will be smart to work on the basis that President
Obama will be making the global weather for the next eight years. Their elbowing
to get close to him makes them look silly, but it is also extremely sensible.


LOAD-DATE: November 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday
                                  1ST Edition

By-Election Result

BYLINE: CLEMENT CRABBE

SECTION: Pg. 28

LENGTH: 109 words


AND we now head north of the border to hear the result of a parliamentary
by-election, announced by a wee fella with hairy knees and a tremulous voice.

'As returning officer for Porridgetoon Central, I announce the following
returns: Morag McOatcake (Scottish Commies) 212 Benjamin Disraeli
(Consairvative) 1,381 Rob Roy (SNPee) 13,209 Tavish Gingernut (Labour) 19,946
Kris Talnacht (UKIP) 117 Harry Mildew (Liberal Democrats) 947 Brian Dull
(Monster Raving Loonies) 0 'Whereupon, as returning officer, I do announce that
Tavish Gingernut is duly elected to serve said constituency and that the rest of
yon peskies can stay behind to help clear up the mess.'

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Brown cannot rely on the recession to win the election;
Week in politics

BYLINE: Andrew Grice

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1134 words


"We don't need a strategy for winning the general election," one very senior
Tory boasted only a matter of weeks ago. "Brown has already lost it for Labour.
It's game, set and match."

How times change, and quickly. Labour's victory in the Glenrothes by-election is
another shot in the arm for a prime minister who appears to have come back from
the dead. In truth, it was not quite as unexpected as Labour made out yesterday.
The party deliberately played down its prospects, having burnt its own fingers
in July when it talked up its chances ahead of the Glasgow East by-election.

Labour's crushing defeat then by a resurgent Scottish National Party (SNP) was
seen by many Labour folk as the final straw: they knew they had to dump Gordon
Brown. The Glenrothes by-election was widely seen as the trigger for a
Cabinet-led coup. If I had pocketed £5 from every Labour person who told me Mr
Brown would be ousted after an another inevitable defeat, I would be a rich man.

This week, Brown allies expected Labour to squeak home in Glenrothes, despite
the party's misleading spin. They did not dream of having a majority of almost
7,000. So something is going on, as well as Mr Brown himself.

Some aides believe the Prime Minister is enjoying a second honeymoon, just as
the first one of Alex Salmond's SNP administration in Edinburgh came to a sudden
halt in Glenrothes, which the nationalists were convinced they would win.
Certainly, Mr Brown seems to thrive in a crisis: his first honeymoon was built
on his response to terrorism, foot-and-mouth and floods. Now he seems to be
defying the laws of political gravity by prospering in an economic crisis.

Talk of a second honeymoon may be premature. Ministers admit that local issues
loomed large in Glenrothes after Labour's warnings about the break-up of the
Union in the Glasgow by-election made no impact. Voters in Glenrothes did not
feel ashamed to back Labour, as they did in Glasgow. Mr Brown's assured response
to the banking crisis has earned him a second hearing.

But Labour shouldn't read too much into Thursday's result. Sensible ministers
admit that the downturn has not really started to bite yet: Labour's private
polls show people feel generally apprehensive but it hasn't yet turned to panic.
Glenrothes was fought against the backdrop of a notional recession rather than a
real one.

Mr Brown remains a man with a giant steamroller heading towards him. But
Glenrothes has given Team Brown hope that he might continue to defy the odds.
Labour's surveys suggest people are buying his line that the crisis was "made in
America". That is good news for Mr Brown, and very bad news for David Cameron,
who seems to be banking on that steamroller to flatten his opponent and now
needs to land some punches himself.

So far, the public seem to be impressed with the Prime Minister's efforts to
limit the impact of the recession. It's early days, but it's a start. "We have
passed the first test," one close Brown ally said yesterday. "The challenge now
is to remain ahead of the curve all the way through the downturn. That means
showing people at every stage we are protecting them from the worst of it."

More bad news for the Tories: Mr Brown is talking up the prospects of tax cuts
in the pre-Budget report later this month as part of this strategy, which might
help him to dress up the soaring borrowing to be announced in it as an
anti-recession package even though much of it would have happened anyway. The
other components would be the dramatic 1.5 per cent cut in interest rates
announced on Thursday and speeding up state-funded building projects to help
keep the recession as short as possible. But Mr Brown will have to learn the
painful lesson of the 10p tax rate fiasco: any tax cuts would have to be real
this time.

The Prime Minister is also pushing lower taxes on the international stage. This
dovetails neatly with Barack Obama's pledge to cut them for 95 per cent of
Americans. We are all tax-cutters now. Except, it seems, the Tories.

If taxes are reduced here, many Tories will rue Mr Cameron's refusal to adopt a
radical "tax cuts for growth" strategy. Indeed, some Tory MPs are starting to
wonder whether they have any strategy at all on the economy. Even those Brown
advisers who respect Mr Cameron's presentational skills (and secretly wish Mr
Brown had them) are describing the Tory leader as a "polo mint": attractive
round the edges but with a big hole where his economic policy should be. I am
sure Mr Cameron and George Osborne are on the case, but there is a danger they
will be left flat-footed by Mr Brown and Alistair Darling.

So far, Mr Brown is having a good economic war. Glenrothes, and the interest
rate cuts, show the momentum is with him and that matters. As one Cabinet
minister put it: "People have given us a new lease. But we haven't won the right
to the freehold."

Glenrothes result How they voted

* Lindsay Roy, Labour - 19,946

* Peter Grant, SNP - 13,209

* Maurice Golden, Conservative - 1,381

* Harry Wills, Liberal Democrats - 947

* Jim Parker, SSCUP - 296

* Morag Balfour, Scottish Socialist - 212

* Kris Seunarine, UKIP - 117

* Louise McLeary, Solidarity - 87

Turnout - 36,195 (52.4%)

Swing - 4.96 per cent Labour to SNP

Politics and downturns How prime ministers of the past have coped

1931

* Still the worst slump in the past 100 years. The financial crisis and cuts in
public spending split Ramsay MacDonald's minority Labour government and
destroyed the party for a generation. MacDonald formed a "National Government"
with Conservatives and some Liberals and went to the country to seek a "doctor's
mandate". He was rewarded with a majority of 500 and the abiding hatred of his
former comrades.

1974

* Ted Heath's Tories tried and failed to deal with three huge economic problems:
a quadrupling of the oil price; a miners' strike (when three-quarters of our
power came from coal); and a rapid increase in inflation. In February 1974 Heath
called an election and asked: "Who governs Britain?" "Not you, mate," was the
reply. He soon gave way to Margaret Thatcher.

1979

* Not exactly a recession, but the British economy's pitiful state was summed up
in the slogan invented for the Conservatives by the Saatchis: "Labour Isn't
Working". James Callaghan's government did well to get even 38 per cent of the
vote; 18 years of opposition followed.

1992

* Few believed John Major could pull off a fourth election victory for the
Tories in the depths of a recession, with millions suffering negative equity.
Yet he did, because the public remained unconvinced by Neil Kinnock's Labour
Party. Tax was the key issue. Sterling's humiliating ejection from the European
Exchange Rate Mechanism followed a few months later, along with the near-death
of the Conservatives. The Tories would have been better off had Major lost.

Sean O'Grady

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday

Honeymoon is over, but SNP may now forge a real marriage

BYLINE:  Magnus Linklater

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg.35

LENGTH: 857 words


All honeymoons come to an end, and political ones sooner rather than later. So
the 18-month period of unalloyed popularity that the Scottish National Party has
enjoyed since it came to power has been something of a phenomenon. No setback
has disturbed it, no broken promise has been allowed to intrude on the nation's
blissful affair with its beloved government.

Now, suddenly, the idyll has been interrupted. The bridal suite has been closed,
the candlelit dinner cancelled, the rosy dawn of a new era replaced by the chill
wind of rejection. The question now must be: is the SNP's honeymoon o be
replaced by a nightmare?

Hitherto the party has been able to brush off criticism from a weakened
opposition. The Labour Party, still smarting after its defeat in the Scottish
elections last year, has seemed incapable of forming a coherent strategy for the
future and has struggled to find convincing leadership. Meanwhile the Liberal
Democrats, having lost a role in government, have failed so far to find an
identity, and the Conservatives remain in search of their elusive renaissance.

By contrast to this general display of incoherence the SNP has demonstrated
self-confidence and disdain in equal proportion. Alex Salmond has been able to
deflect criticism by contrasting his party's devotion to the interests of
Scotland with the woeful achievements of his predecessors. He has shown that
minority government can be made to work if you parade a series of populist
measures that do not require legislation, while blaming the lack of anything
more substantial on the mean-minded intransigence of other parties.

The strongest Nationalist card has been the remarkable deal reached by the SNP
government with local authorities. By persuading them to freeze their council
taxes for a year, and possibly for more, Mr Salmond has been able to demonstrate
genuine savings for local ratepayers and to contrast that with the increases
that the previous Labour regime had introduced. The "historic concordat" he
describes it as, deliberately rolling the Rs as he mocks Labour's discomfiture.

There is, however, a flip side to this, and it was exploited ruthlessly at
Glenrothes. Some councils have begun to find that, for all the support they
receive from central government, the combination of inflation-fuelled costs and
frozen taxes has made budgets tough to work within. They have had to introduce
charges and cut back services.

Thus it was that the SNP-led Fife council found itself having to introduce some
modest charges for home care for the elderly and to seek payments for alarm
systems for the disabled. They were means-tested and affected a relatively small
number of people, but Labour seized on them as a demonstration that the SNP was
punishing the weak and the vulnerable. The party homed in on this with the kind
of single-minded ferocity that the SNP once regarded as its own.

It rediscovered its old ability to run a successful campaign and focused on
those issues where it could demonstrate the SNP's inability to improve peoples'
lives.

The financial crisis played into Labour's hands. Who, it demanded, was better
equipped to tackle bank debts and interest rates - Gordon Brown, the iron
chancellor, or Alex Salmond, under whom an independent and isolated Scotland
would have struggled to survive?

This argument was strong enough to turn the tide at Glenrothes. But that is not
the end of it. The issues that won the by-election for Labour are likely to
haunt the SNP over the next two years as the party confronts what all
governments have to contend with in difficult economic times: councils cutting
back on services, hospital boards struggling with huge deficits, promises that
simply cannot be funded. Already pledges on free school meals, smaller class
sizes and extra policing are having to be reconsidered. And round the corner
looms another SNP flagship policy - local income tax - which is beginning to
fall apart at the seams.

All this confronts Mr Salmond just at the point where the Labour Party has begun
to rediscover its ability to function as a proper opposition. It will be harder
for him now to brush aside a party that has a substantial victory under its
belt, while at the same time his own image has suffered a damaging blow that
Labour will be anxious to exploit.

That may be no bad thing. For too long now the SNP has been able to coast along,
buoyed by little more than its own self-approval.

From here on it must learn to behave like a proper government, be tested on its
policies, and face a serious opposition. That is good for the country.

It may well be good for the SNP as well.

High Fife

Lindsay Roy (Lab) 19,946 (55.11%, +3.20%) Peter Grant (SNP) 13,209 (36.49%,
+13.13%) Maurice Golden (C) 1,381 (3.82%, -3.28%) Harry Wills (LD) 947 (2.62%,
-10.04%) Jim Parker (SSCUP) 296 (0.82%) Morag Balfour (SSP) 212 (0.59%, 1.30%)
Kris Seunarine (UKIP) 117 (0.32%, -0.85%) Louise McLeary (Solidarity) 87 (0.24%)
Lab maj 6,737 (18.61%) 4.96% swing Lab to SNP Electorate 69,155; Turnout 36,195
(52.34%, -3.80%) 2005: Lab maj 10,664 (28.54%) Turnout 37,366 (56.14%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 8, 2008 Saturday

Labour's private poll showed Salmond heading for a fall

BYLINE:  Angus MacLeod Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.34

LENGTH: 905 words


* SNP filled with doubt after First Minister's predictions of by-election
victory ring hollow

When Gordon Brown set off for his trip to the Gulf States last weekend, whatever
other uncertainties might have been playing on his mind, he was relatively sure
of one thing: unless Labour's private canvassing was horribly wrong, the party
was on track to win the Glenrothes by-election.

The Prime Minister was privy to the results of a mass canvass completed towards
the start of last week which showed that voters who had previously said they
were "don't knows" were heading for the Labour camp by a margin of three to one
as Thursday's polling day approached.

The results of that canvass were kept to a group of five party top brass - the
Prime Minister, Jim Murphy, the Scottish Secretary, Iain Gray, the Labour leader
in the Scottish Parliament, Gordon Banks, the Glenrothes campaign manager, and
Colin Smyth, the secretary of the Scottish Labour Party. They made a pact to
tell no one else and - other than to say that the result would be "close" - were
content to sit back and watch as the premature claims of victory from Alex
Salmond and the SNP grew louder and louder.

Early yesterday, as the votes were being counted, Labour's by-election high
command knew that unless thousands of Fifers had been telling lies, Mr Salmond
was in for a shock.

The sucker punch landed with such force that it left the SNP leader and his
party filled with doubt for the first time since they came to office at Holyrood
in May last year.

Mr Brown, whose Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath constituency borders Glenrothes, kept
in daily touch with events on the ground and broke with prime ministerial
tradition by twice visiting the seat. His wife, Sarah, knocked on thousands of
doors and gave a running commentary on what she found.

The Prime Minister also made sure that Labour would not want for forces on the
ground, and by polling day there were 800 Labour activists in the constituency.

A key Labour strategist told The Times: "No one should underestimate Gordon's
role in this. He knows Fife like the back of his hand, knows how the people here
think and he felt all along that this by-election could be turned in our favour
- though I think even he will be a bit surprised that we did it so easily."

So what did go wrong for the Nationalists? The answer lies in one word -
incumbency. The SNP may be in power in Edinburgh and on Fife council, but in a
campaign dominated by local issues, it was there to be shot at. Labour early on
seized on the issue of increased home care charges for the elderly imposed by
the council, led by Peter Grant, the SNP candidate, and did not let go.

It was, as the SNP alleged, negative campaigning. But as past masters at such
tactics the party should not have been surprised that it became the dominant
issue.

It tried hard to answer the Labour accusation that the council was forcing the
vulnerable elderly to pay unreasonable amounts for items such as home alarms but
never managed to neutralise the Labour propaganda.

Labour, in government at Westminster, fought this campaign as the opposition in
Scotland and it paid off. Then there was Lindsay Roy, the Labour candidate, a
personal friend of the Prime Minister and Mr Brown's own choice to fight the
by-election. Mr Roy, a 59-year-old headmaster, came across as a throwback to a
bygone age, appearing to wear a dazed expression as if surprised to find himself
on the stump. This was misleading. He has won praise from parents and colleagues
over the years for his teaching and his talent for communication. He is popular
locally and garnered a huge personal vote.

While the campaign concentrated almost exclusively on local concerns, it was
played out to the doom-laden background of the global financial crisis and Mr
Brown's role in handling the fall-out.

Fifers are notoriously clannish and took pride that one of their own was being
praised around the world for his role.

The bail-out of Scotland's two leading financial institutions, HBOS and RBS,
raised questions at the back of their minds about whether Mr Salmond's
independent Scotland would be able to do likewise.

Last night, Mr Salmond, surveying the wreckage of the SNP's campaign, admitted
that it was his fault. For a politician who has appeared to walk on water for
the best part of the last 18 months, this is not a position with which the First
Minister is familiar.

"The failure is of the campaign leadership - which is me effectively - for not
recognising that we should have changed our campaign to face down a
scaremongering campaign," he said: "That's my fault for not having my finger on
the political temperature."

HIGH FIFE

Lindsay Roy (Lab) 19,946 (55.11%, +3.20%)

Peter Grant (SNP) 13,209 (36.49%, +13.13%)

Maurice Golden (C) 1,381 (3.82%, -3.28%)

Harry Wills (LD) 947 (2.62%, -10.04%)

Jim Parker (SSCUP) 296 (0.82%)

Morag Balfour (SSP) 212 (0.59%, -1.30%)

Kris Seunarine (UKIP) 117 (0.32%, -0.85%)

Louise McLeary (Solidarity) 87 (0.24%)

Lab maj 6,737 (18.61%)

4.96% swing Lab to SNP

Electorate 69,155; Turnout 36,195 (52.34%, -3.80%)

2005: Lab maj 10,664 (28.54%) Turnout 37,366 (56.14%)

MacDougall (Lab) 19,395 (51.91%); Beare (SNP) 8,731 (23.37%); Riches

(LD) 4,728 (12.65%); Don (C) 2,651 (7.09%); Rodger (PPS) 716 (1.92%);

Balfour (SSP) 705 (1.89%); Smith (UKIP) 440 (1.18%)

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            November 7, 2008 Friday
                                  SC1 Edition

Brown on brink of poll humiliation;
Labour looks set for by-election defeat in Fife

BYLINE: John Robertson

SECTION: Pg. 2

LENGTH: 519 words


GORDON BROWN was steeling himself for humiliation in his own backyard last night
as voters went to the polls in Glenrothes.

As counting got under way, it was feared Labour's 10,664 majority had evaporated
as yet another safe seat looked in danger of falling to a still buoyant SNP.

It was thought that, even if Labour candidate Lindsay Roy managed to pull off a
surprise win, he would be left with a tiny majority in the seat next door to the
Prime Minister's own Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath constituency.

While any margin of victory would be viewed as a success by Labour, given recent
byelection results in Glasgow East, Henley, and Crewe and Nantwich, defeat in
Glenrothes would be seen as a huge personal failure for Mr Brown, who made two
campaign visits.

Mr Brown, who was boosted by his own surge in the polls, even drafted in his
wife Sarah to campaign in the Fife seat following her successful, surprise
appearance at September's Labour conference.

But his desperate attempts to shore up support were brought to an end as the
polls closed last night, with the result poised on a knife edge.

Labour insiders had already been predicting that defeat could see a return to
the infighting of earlier this year as MPs start to worry about their own seats.

The party last night refused to make any predictions about the outcome. 'We are
not predicting victory, not predicting defeat - it's for the voters to decide,'
said a spokesman.

When the date for the byelection - brought about by the death of Labour MP John
MacDougall - was announced two months ago, few thought Labour could hold the
seat.

But the change in Mr Brown's fortunes following the shock reshuffle that brought
back Peter Mandelson and the emergency bank rescue package persuaded him to
throw everything into the campaign.

First, he broke with the convention that keeps Prime Ministers out of
by-election campaigns.

Celebrity endorsements followed, first from Manchester United manager Sir Alex
Ferguson, then from bestselling crime writer Ian Rankin. A succession of Cabinet
Ministers also made the trip north to knock on doors.

But confident Nationalists last night claimed that Labour's 'negative' campaign
had helped them. An SNP source said: 'We are in as good a position as we were in
at this stage in Glasgow East.' After voting at a local primary school, SNP
candidate Peter Grant said: 'The signs are we are going to win. We have a
fantastic team of volunteers out now, making sure that everyone who has promised
us their vote will deliver that.

'If they do, we will be the ones celebrating this evening.' The constituency's
88,000 residents woke to a gloomy, wet November day when the polls opened at 7am
yesterday.

Last night's result will bear little resemblance to the voting in the 2005
General Election.

In that poll, Labour won the seat with 19,395 votes, followed by the SNP on
8,731, the Liberal Democrats on 4,728 and the Conservatives on 2,651.

Last night, the Tories and LibDems were again in a battle for third place, vying
with candidates from two socialist parties, UKIP and the Scottish Senior
Citizens Unity Party.

j.robertson@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Gordon Brown: Polls surge

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            November 7, 2008 Friday
                                  1ST Edition

They listened as if hypnotised by the pendulum of a clock;
Yesterday in Parliament

BYLINE: Quentin Letts

SECTION: Pg. 22

LENGTH: 672 words


SAVED by the division bells! Lord Mandelson, Secretary of State for Murky
Business, glided along to a committee yesterday.

It was a House of Lords affair, so not a particularly rigorous appointment.
Peers do not generally duff up ministers.

Rather they listen in the manner of an appreciative concert audience at Wilton
Hall.

The only slight danger lay in the form of Lord Pearson, the Upper House's sole
UKIP voice.

But just as the Tiggerish Lord Pearson was due his turn there was a tremendous
'clack-a-clacka-clack' as the Palace of Westminster's division bells clattered
into operation.

A vote had been called in the House of Lords. The meeting was interrupted and a
short while later abandoned because Lord Mandelson had a 'very important
meeting' with some visiting Frenchie.

European Union sub-committee A on Economic and Financial Affairs and
International Trade is about as snappy as its name. It floats under the serene
chairmanship of Lady Cohen of Pimlico, Labour but dead posh.

Lady Cohen is one of those people one slightly dreads having to sit next to at a
dinner party: well-informed but disdainful of mischief.

She may well be a great woman for the appendices of EU trade commission
documents. Her command of the minutes from international summits may have no
rival. Her grasp of parliamentary theatre, alas, is rather less secure. Lord
Mandelson and his crocodile of little officials came coasting down the carpeted
corridor outside Committee Room 3 with little more than a minute to spare before
the scheduled start of proceedings.

Nose in the air, his lordship was so enjoying the up-draught on his perfectly
clipped fringe that he overshot the door. 'Peter,' called one of the flunkeys in
a fluting voice. This hauled him back.

It is the custom for select committee witnesses to wait outside until summoned
by a clerk. Lord Mandelson was unwilling to kick his heels with a throng of
blunt nibs from Grub Street. He took a look at us all and gave a shudder.

'If I'd known you were going to be here I would have done some more prep,' he
said. To be addressed by Lord Mandelson is to understand what it felt like to be
Field Marshal Haig's batman.

At that point, happily, Lady Cohen opened the door. 'Peter, helloooo!' she
gushed, as though welcoming him to evening drinks. 'Do come in!' We peasants
bounded in after our prey and after a certain amount of snuffling and rooting
around for seats, the room hushed.

Lady Cohen began the meeting by telling Lord Mandelson that 'every word is being
taken down'. Police officers interviewing suspects are required to issue similar
advice, I believe. Lady Cohen was determined to steer discussion on to the
obscure and low-risk area of the Doha Trade Round. And, being the sort of woman
she is, she succeeded.

She was assisted not only by some dusty peers - Lord Renton (Con),

Lord Haskins (Cross-bencher) and Lord Maclennan (LibDem) among them - but also
by Lord Mandelson himself. After a languid preamble the first sentence of his
evidence about modalities and tariffs and trading formulae must have lasted
seven minutes. Words fell from his waxy lips at roughly one per second, each
checked by a Kitemark inspector to ensure that no possible controversy was
contained therein.

LORD Pearson was the only contrast to the swan-like progress of the minister. He
scribbled on documents. He kept pulling his seat closer to the table. He yanked
up his socks, coughed, fiddled with some ear wax and fretted over the top of his
halfmoon spectacles. Here was the living embodiment of itching powder. How he
burned to leap in with a question! Lord Mandelson, however, was not to be
deterred from his capacious answers.

The other peers listened as though hypnotised by the pendulum of a grandfather
clock. Lady Cohen rested her chin on her right palm.

Eventually, after some 45 minutes, the division bells leapt into action and
everyone had to go and vote.

Corfu had not been mentioned once. Nor aluminium.

Lord Pearson groaned and dejectedly gathered up his belongings.

Lord Mandelson had escaped again..

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            November 7, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

By-election triumph boosts Brown;
Labour defies predictions with convincing win over Scottish Nationalists in Fife

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown IN GLENROTHES and Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 690 words


GORDON BROWN achieved a morale-boosting victory in the Glenrothes by-election
early today after Labour comfortably fought off a concerted challenge from the
Scottish National Party.

The SNP mounted a determined campaign to capture the Fife constituency in an
effort to inflict a humiliating defeat against the Prime Minister in his own
political backyard. But Lindsay Roy, the headmaster at the Prime Minister's old
school, held on to the seat to deliver Labour's first by-election win for more
than a year.

Having been haunted by the spectre of defeat right up until the polls closed, Mr
Roy received 19,946 votes to 13,209 for the SNP's Peter Grant, a majority of
6,737. The anti-Labour swing of just under 5 per cent was not enough to defeat
the party in a seat it has held for half a century after a respectable 52.4 per
cent turnout in driving rain. The Conservatives came third with 1,381 votes,
while the Liberal Democrats trailed in fourth place with 947 votes.

A relieved Mr Roy said it was time to stand up to the SNP, and he heaped praise
on Mr Brown's achievements on the economy, jobs and the union. "In these
difficult economic times I pledge my support to the leader of our country,
someone who has worked hard on behalf of all of us, not just in Fife but in the
whole of the UK," he said.

John MacDougall, whose death in August triggered the by-election, held the seat
at the last general election for Labour with a majority of 10,644 and more than
half the votes cast.

Mr Brown will be hoping the win puts an end to a sequence of losses under his
premiership, culminating in the seismic defeat at Glasgow East in the summer
where the SNP demolished a majority of more than 13,000. Labour strategists will
be relieved that the party's recovery in opinion polls appears to be translating
into real votes.

The Prime Minister decided to take advantage of the much-vaunted Brown bounce on
the back of his handling of the financial crisis and broke with convention to
campaign twice in the constituency that borders his own Kirkcaldy and
Cowdenbeath seat. His wife, Sarah, also campaigned on his behalf.

Both Labour and the nationalists fought for every vote in the Scottish new town
and the outlying former pit villages which make up what would have once been
rock solid territory for the Government. Labour had sought to mobilise local
opposition to council-imposed rises in the cost of home helps and concern about
anti-social behaviour to bring home the vote. The party was initially hampered
by a creaking local party machine, a result of decades of dominance in Fife. It
was forced to bus activists into the constituency from all over Scotland.

The SNP concentrated on galvanising discontent over the soaring cost of gas,
electricity and food under Labour, as well as uncertainty over job losses in
nearby HBOS offices. Alex Salmond, the SNP leader, paid 11 visits in the drive
for what would have been the party's first consecutive by-election wins. It
appeared to be on course for victory until earlier this week when disillusioned
former Labour voters started drifting back to the fold.

Two months ago, Labour strategists had been so pessimistic about their chances
of winning they decided to stage the by-election two days after the US elected a
new president. They hoped the fall-out from losing their third safe seat this
year would be overshadowed.

The depth of Labour's unpopularity meant that no one in the high command
considered they had a chance. They even feared that defeat in Glenrothes could
deal a final, fatal blow to Mr Brown's hopes of remaining in Downing Street. The
remarkable turnaround will lift the spirits of Labour's MPs and activists. But,
as they breathe a sigh of relief, they will be under no illusion about the
electoral mountain Labour still has to scale to win the next general election.

Glenrothes result

How they voted

* M Balfour, Scottish Socialist - 212

* M Golden, Conservative - 1,381

* P Grant, SNP - 13,209

* L McLeary, Solidarity - 87

* J Parker, SSCUP - 296

* L Roy, Labour - 19,946

* K Seunarine, UKIP - 117

* H Wills, Liberal Democrats - 947

Turnout - 36,195 (52.4%)

L Roy wins with a majority of 6,737

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 7, 2008 Friday

Mandy is saved from passionate peer by piercing peal

BYLINE:  Ann Treneman

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.36

LENGTH: 568 words


There was a Mandy mini-drama yesterday at a meeting of the Lords' European Union
Sub-Committee A. Yes, I know it seems unlikely that such a body should even
exist, much less attract a crowd. But Baron Mandelson, of Foy and Hartlepool was
testifying and he is almost a celebrity these days.

Mandy makes some people go a bit doolally and one of them is Lord Pearson of
Rannoch. He was in the corridor beforehand, very over-excited, clutching his own
nameplate. His cunning plan was to gatecrash the sub-committee's Mandy session.
"I can do that," he cried, waving his nameplate. "It's perfectly proper."

Incredibly, this turned out to be true. Lord Pearson is a UKIP peer (another
unlikely combination of words) and his masterplan was to confront Mandy about
what he believes is a conflict of interest between his personal EU pension and
decisions that he will make in his new role as Business Secretary. "Which way
will he jump?" cried Lord Pearson, who was doing quite a bit of jumping himself
in what seemed an imitation of the White Rabbit.

But now here came Lord Mandelson himself, gliding up the corridor, a sprinkling
of underlings scampering behind. "Crikey," he said softly as he spied the press.
"If I'd known you lot were here, I would have done a little more ..." he paused,
his eyes sliding over us - "preparation."

The room was immensely grand: huge windows overlooking the Thames, flocked
wallpaper, gold-trimmed paintings of men in wigs and satin capes. Mandy was
right at home as he faced the sub-committee to which Lord Pearson (and his
nameplate) were now attached.

Baroness Cohen of Pimlico began with a small gush. Mandy gushed back. "I want to
say that my ..." (he paused to search his vocabulary) "passion for the Doha
round is undimmed." Lady Cohen's passion was undimmed too. I felt my credulity
was being stretched: Doha and passion should not be in the same sentence.

"Why did Doha fail?" Lady Cohen asked with passion. Mandy wasn't having it.
"This round has NOT failed," he insisted, embarking on a maze of an explanation
before announcing: "But the meeting in July did not end in success."

Everyone nodded except, of course, Lord Pearson, who was scribbling away on his
attack-dog question.

Around him, and us, Mandy's words flowed like a river. He spoke mostly in code,
though, occasionally, he said something understandable such as that George
W.Bush (I had forgotten he existed, actually) should commit the US to Doha. He
urged Barack Obama to resist protectionism. There would be a "lively debate", he
predicted, which I think is code for all-out war.

Suddenly, in mid-word, an ear-splitting ringing filled the air. It was the
division bell. "We have to vote," Lady Cohen shouted. Mandy's eyebrows jumped.
"Me too," he shouted back. "I have to keep reminding myself," Mandy bellowed the
rest of his answer.

Lady Cohen shouted that she hoped Mandy could come back after the vote and
extend the session. "I have a meeting with the French Employment Minister," he
screamed, "in the vital national interest of our country."

Everyone decanted to vote and Lady Cohen pulled Lord Pearson aside. In a minute
he was out in the corridor, heading home, bemoaning his bad luck. Because of the
vote (Amendment One of the Planning Bill) there would not be time for his
renegade question. "He was saved by the bell," he cried with, it must be said,
passion.

LOAD-DATE: November 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                November 6, 2008

Surprise Glenrothes byelection victory for Labour

LENGTH: 555 words


Labour held off the SNP challenge to record a comfortable byelection victory in
Glenrothes tonight.

Lindsay Roy, the Labour candidate, returned 19,946 votes to win by a majority of
6,737.

The SNP had been widely expected to hold the seat, which Labour won with a
majority of more than 10,000 at the 2005 election, and any victory would be a
significant boost for Gordon Brown.

Many observers wrote off Labour's chances after the SNP won the Glasgow East
byelection in July with a swing of 22.5%. The party could win Glenrothes with a
swing of just 14.2% and Alex Salmond's party put an enormous effort into taking
the seat off Labour.

But, shortly before midnight, SNP sources said they expected Labour to win.
Labour sources had said they thought they were on course for a majority of
between 3,000 and 6,000.

The prime minister has twice visited the constituency, which borders his own
seat of Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, and his wife, Sarah, has campaigned there at
least seven times to bolster Labour's efforts to retain the seat.

The byelection was caused by the death of John MacDougall in August. MacDougall
died only three weeks after the SNP won the Glasgow East byelection, overturning
a Labour majority of more than 13,000 with a swing of 22.5%.

In May Labour also lost a byelection in Crewe and Nantwich, where the late
Gwyneth Dunwoody had been elected with a majority of more than 7,000 in 2005.

The SNP were in second place in Glenrothes in 2005 and, to win the seat, they
need a swing of 14.2%. At the time of MacDougall's death Labour MPs assumed that
defeat in the byelection was inevitable and the party arranged for the poll to
be held two days after the US presidential election in an apparent attempt to
minimise the amount of media attention that the result would attract.

In the run-up to the Labour conference in September, some Labour MPs predicted
that defeat in Glenrothes would be the event that triggered a challenge to
Brown's leadership of the party.

Although Labour was initially very pessimistic about its chances in Glenrothes,
as the campaign went on party insiders became increasingly confident about their
chances.

In an unusual move, Labour selected a 59-year-old headteacher, Lindsay Roy, who
has never campaigned for political office before. Roy, the rector at Kirkcaldy
high school, which the prime minister attended in the 1960s, is well known and
highly respected in Fife and the party assumed that, as a relative
"non-politician", he would attract more support than a conventional candidate.

Labour also campaigned against decisions taken by the SNP-led local council. As
leader of the council, Grant found himself on the defensive when Labour
criticised his decision to increase charges for pensioners using emergency
alarms and for some people using the council's home help service.

For most of the campaign bookmakers have had the SNP as favourites to win.
Labour's odds improved last week following reports that the party was closing
the gap, but in the last few days it has been playing down its chances of
winning.

In 2005 Labour won 52% of the vote in Glenrothes, the SNP 24%, the Liberal
Democrats 13% and the Conservatives 7%.

The byelection is being contested by four minor parties, the Scottish
Socialists, Solidarity, Scottish Senior Citizens and UKip, as well as by the
four main parties.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               42 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                November 6, 2008

Glenrothes: Labour downbeat over byelection chances

LENGTH: 847 words


Senior Labour party figures have acknowledged that they may have failed to do
enough to prevent the Scottish National party winning today's byelection in
Glenrothes.

Labour held the seat with a majority of 10,664 in the 2005 election and an SNP
victory would be a severe setback for Gordon Brown, who has already lost two
safe Labour seats in byelections this year.

The prime minister has twice visited the constituency, which borders his own
seat of Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, and his wife, Sarah, has campaigned there at
least seven times to bolster Labour's efforts to retain the seat.

The polls opened at 7am and the result is expected to be announced before 1am
tomorrow morning.

In his 11th visit to Glenrothes, the SNP leader, Alex Salmond, yesterday claimed
Labour would lose its majority in the Fife seat - giving his party its second
byelection victory over Labour this summer - because it had fought a campaign of
"endless negativity".

With the SNP candidate and Fife council leader, Peter Grant, at his side, he
added: "You can't win campaigns based on that negativity. You can't win
campaigns based on scaremongering. You win campaigns based on being positive,
being optimistic, based on what you've done and what you can do. On that basis,
Peter Grant will be the next MP for this constituency."

The Labour's former deputy leader, John Prescott, conceded that Labour had to
battle hard to motivate voters and had often failed to remind voters about its
successes on the economy and in public services since winning power at
Westminster in 1997.

Dismissing Salmond as "that cheeky chappy", Prescott brushed aside questions
about the impact losing the seat would have on Gordon Brown's continuing
leadership. He said Labour could yet win but refused to predict the outcome.

"We've put our case," he said. "People in Glenrothes here need to make a
decision, but I tell you what: the rest of the people in the UK are quite glad
that [Brown] is the guy in charge and not David Cameron ... We've got the man to
deal with global problems, finance problems, climate change, energy."

The byelection was caused by the death of John MacDougall in August. MacDougall
died only three weeks after the SNP won the Glasgow East byelection, overturning
a Labour majority of more than 13,000 with a swing of 22.5%.

In May Labour also lost a byelection in Crewe and Nantwich, where the late
Gwyneth Dunwoody had been elected with a majority of more than 7,000 in 2005.

The SNP were in second place in Glenrothes in 2005 and, to win the seat, they
need a swing of 14.2%. At the time of MacDougall's death Labour MPs assumed that
defeat in the byelection was inevitable and the party arranged for the poll to
be held two days after the US presidential election in an apparent attempt to
minimise the amount of media attention that the result would attract.

In the run-up to the Labour conference in September, some Labour MPs predicted
that defeat in Glenrothes would be the event that triggered a challenge to
Brown's leadership of the party.

But the global banking crisis, Brown's response to it and his decision to
appoint Peter Mandelson to his cabinet in the reshuffle appear to have silenced
those in the party who were agitating for a new leader. Even if Labour loses
badly in Glenrothes, it seems unlikely that any Labour MP will respond by
calling for Brown to quit.

Although Labour was initially very pessimistic about its chances in Glenrothes,
as the campaign went on party insiders became increasingly confident about their
chances.

In an unusual move, Labour selected a 59-year-old headteacher, Lindsay Roy, who
has never campaigned for political office before. Roy, the rector at Kirkcaldy
high school, which the prime minister attended in the 1960s, is well known and
highly respected in Fife and the party assumed that, as a relative
"non-politician", he would attract more support than a conventional candidate.

Labour also campaigned against decisions taken by the SNP-led local council. As
leader of the council, Grant found himself on the defensive when Labour
criticised his decision to increase charges for pensioners using emergency
alarms and for some people using the council's home help service.

For most of the campaign bookmakers have had the SNP as favourites to win.
Labour's odds improved last week following reports that the party was closing
the gap, but in the last few days it has been playing down its chances of
winning.

The SNP has been able to flood the constituency with activists, which seems to
have made a difference. Around 1,500 SNP workers were in Glenrothes over the
last weekend of the campaign.

Salmond's party also benefits from the fact that it won the Central Fife
constituency, which overlaps the Glenrothes constituency, in the elections to
the Scottish parliament last year.

In 2005 Labour won 52% of the vote in Glenrothes, the SNP 24%, the Liberal
Democrats 13% and the Conservatives 7%.

The byelection is being contested by four minor parties, the Scottish
Socialists, Solidarity, Scottish Senior Citizens and UKip, as well as by the
four main parties.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               43 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                November 6, 2008

Labour MP reveals party pessimism over Glenrothes byelection

LENGTH: 1000 words


A Labour MP said today he did not know any of his parliamentary colleagues who
expected his party to win the Glenrothes byelection.

With voting still going on in the Fife constituency, Nick Palmer made his
comments in a contributor to a discussion on the PoliticalBetting website.

The MP said: "I don't know any Labour MPs who are expecting us to win - the
range of opinion is from "well, we've given them a run for their money" to
"bloody by-elections, what can you expect?"

Palmer, who is generally seen as a respected and fair-minded commentator on
elections, said he thought the SNP had "got it in the bag".

He also expressed frustration with the local party in Glenrothes for not having
up-to-date information about voters' intentions. Parties need this information
to campaign effectively, but often in safe seats activists do not feel the need
to compile this data.

Palmer said: "Once again we found that the level of canvass data was zero, and I
don't mind saying that I'm fed up with going to one byelection after another and
finding that this is so often the case in safe seats."

Labour held the seat with a majority of 10,664 in the 2005 election and an SNP
victory would be a severe setback for Gordon Brown, who has already lost two
safe Labour seats in byelections this year.

The prime minister has twice visited the constituency, which borders his own
seat of Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, and his wife, Sarah, has campaigned there at
least seven times to bolster Labour's efforts to retain the seat.

The polls opened at 7am and the result is expected to be announced before 1am
tomorrow morning.

In his 11th visit to Glenrothes, the SNP leader, Alex Salmond, yesterday claimed
Labour would lose its majority in the Fife seat - giving his party its second
byelection victory over Labour this summer - because it had fought a campaign of
"endless negativity".

With the SNP candidate and Fife council leader, Peter Grant, at his side, he
added: "You can't win campaigns based on that negativity. You can't win
campaigns based on scaremongering. You win campaigns based on being positive,
being optimistic, based on what you've done and what you can do. On that basis,
Peter Grant will be the next MP for this constituency."

The Labour's former deputy leader, John Prescott, conceded that Labour had to
battle hard to motivate voters and had often failed to remind voters about its
successes on the economy and in public services since winning power at
Westminster in 1997.

Dismissing Salmond as "that cheeky chappy", Prescott brushed aside questions
about the impact losing the seat would have on Gordon Brown's continuing
leadership. He said Labour could yet win but refused to predict the outcome.

"We've put our case," he said. "People in Glenrothes here need to make a
decision, but I tell you what: the rest of the people in the UK are quite glad
that [Brown] is the guy in charge and not David Cameron ... We've got the man to
deal with global problems, finance problems, climate change, energy."

The byelection was caused by the death of John MacDougall in August. MacDougall
died only three weeks after the SNP won the Glasgow East byelection, overturning
a Labour majority of more than 13,000 with a swing of 22.5%.

In May Labour also lost a byelection in Crewe and Nantwich, where the late
Gwyneth Dunwoody had been elected with a majority of more than 7,000 in 2005.

The SNP were in second place in Glenrothes in 2005 and, to win the seat, they
need a swing of 14.2%. At the time of MacDougall's death Labour MPs assumed that
defeat in the byelection was inevitable and the party arranged for the poll to
be held two days after the US presidential election in an apparent attempt to
minimise the amount of media attention that the result would attract.

In the run-up to the Labour conference in September, some Labour MPs predicted
that defeat in Glenrothes would be the event that triggered a challenge to
Brown's leadership of the party.

But the global banking crisis, Brown's response to it and his decision to
appoint Peter Mandelson to his cabinet in the reshuffle appear to have silenced
those in the party who were agitating for a new leader. Even if Labour loses
badly in Glenrothes, it seems unlikely that any Labour MP will respond by
calling for Brown to quit.

Although Labour was initially very pessimistic about its chances in Glenrothes,
as the campaign went on party insiders became increasingly confident about their
chances.

In an unusual move, Labour selected a 59-year-old headteacher, Lindsay Roy, who
has never campaigned for political office before. Roy, the rector at Kirkcaldy
high school, which the prime minister attended in the 1960s, is well known and
highly respected in Fife and the party assumed that, as a relative
"non-politician", he would attract more support than a conventional candidate.

Labour also campaigned against decisions taken by the SNP-led local council. As
leader of the council, Grant found himself on the defensive when Labour
criticised his decision to increase charges for pensioners using emergency
alarms and for some people using the council's home help service.

For most of the campaign bookmakers have had the SNP as favourites to win.
Labour's odds improved last week following reports that the party was closing
the gap, but in the last few days it has been playing down its chances of
winning.

The SNP has been able to flood the constituency with activists, which seems to
have made a difference. Around 1,500 SNP workers were in Glenrothes over the
last weekend of the campaign.

Salmond's party also benefits from the fact that it won the Central Fife
constituency, which overlaps the Glenrothes constituency, in the elections to
the Scottish parliament last year.

In 2005 Labour won 52% of the vote in Glenrothes, the SNP 24%, the Liberal
Democrats 13% and the Conservatives 7%.

The byelection is being contested by four minor parties, the Scottish
Socialists, Solidarity, Scottish Senior Citizens and UKip, as well as by the
four main parties.

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               44 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           November 6, 2008 Thursday

SNP predicts another election earthquake

BYLINE:  Lorraine Davidson

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.24

LENGTH: 790 words


Alex Salmond underlined his confidence that the SNP would pull off another
"by-election earthquake" today with a bullish prediction of vic- tory on the eve
of the Glenrothes poll.

Scotland's First Minister staked his reputation on an SNP victory in the seat,
despite predictions of a tight result from all parties as they entered the final
hours of the campaign.

Asked if the SNP would overturn Labour's 10,664-strong majority, Mr Salmond
echoed the slogan used by Barack Obama during his US presidential election
campaign: "Yes we can and yes we will."

The SNP leader made his prediction of victory during his eleventh campaign visit
to the constituency next to Gordon Brown's seat of Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath.

Labour made its final campaign push yesterday with an appearance from John
Prescott, the former Deputy Prime Minister, who defended Labour's record and
attacked the SNP policy on home-care charges.

Mr Prescott joined Lindsay Roy, the Labour candidate and local headmaster, to
protest at increases brought in by the SNP-led Fife Council.

He praised Gordon Brown's handling of the economic crisis, branding the Prime
Minister "the man of the moment", but he said that Labour had to "get out and
convince people" in the constituency. Mr Prescott held aloft a card from the
1997 election campaign featuring his picture and a list of pledges on the
economy, hospital waiting lists and class sizes.

"We delivered on that and I'm proud of that after ten years," he said.

He later described Mr Salmond as a "cheeky chappy" and recalled how SNP votes at
Westminster had helped to bring about the collapse of Jim Callaghan's Government
in the 1970s.

"When they tell us about their promises, I just go back to what they did to a
Labour Government and the price we all paid - high unemployment and cuts in
public services - simply because the SNP sought its own political interests," he
said.

Mr Salmond laughed off Mr Prescott's gibe, saying: "It's substantially nicer
than what he used to say about Peter Mandelson."

The SNP leader was joined by Peter Grant, the Nationalist candidate, against the
backdrop of a giant saltire held aloft by supporters.

The nationalists used the final stage of the campaign to accuse Labour of waging
a negative battle. They, meanwhile, revived the "Yes we can" slogan first used
in their 1997 general election campaign and also used by Barack Obama in his US
election victory.

Mr Grant said he believed that the Nationalists were currently ahead in the
constituency. Senior SNP strategists claimed yesterday that they had the votes
to win.

The SNP flooded the constituency with 1,200 party activists on the final weekend
of the campaign, outnumbering Labour.

The party believes that it will have about 500 activists on the streets on
polling day. Meanwhile Labour has drafted in organisers from across the UK to
ensure that it maximises its vote.

The Prime Minister broke with convention to campaign in the byelection after
being urged by party strategists to make a personal appeal to voters in what was
once Labour's heartland.

Mr Brown's wife, Sarah, also took to the campaign trail several times in an
attempt to bolster her husband's position.

Senior Labour sources claimed yesterday that they had closed the gap with the
SNP: "They began this campaign well ahead, but we have run them very close.
People have responded well to Gordon and to Sarah, particularly in the outlying
parts of the constituency."

Both Labour and the SNP claimed that the Liberal Democrats and the Tories would
be squeezed in what is a tight two-horse race.

Harry Wills, the Lib Dem candidate, maintained yesterday, however, that he still
has a chance of victory.

He said: "We started finding about ten days ago that we were attracting SNP
voters who were disenchanted with the SNP government at Holyrood and Labour
voters who were disenchanted with Labour in total."

Maurice Golden, the Conservative candidate, said that the best way to send Mr
Brown "a message" was to vote Tory, although he conceded that it would be an
"uphill battle" for him to win the seat. "We are fighting for every single
vote," he said.

Election battleground

The candidates in today's by-election are:

Morag Balfour SSP Maurice Golden, left, C Peter Grant, right, SNP Lindsay Roy
Lab Kris Seunarine UKIP Harry Wills Lib Dem Louise McLeary Solidarity Jim Parker
Scottish Senior Citizens Unity Party

Labour won Glenrothes at the 2005 election with a majority of 10,664. Labour
polled 19,395, the SNP 8,731, the Lib Dems 4,728 and the Conservatives 2,651 The
SNP won Central Fife, the corresponding constituency for the Scottish
Parliament, last year with a majority of 1,166

LOAD-DATE: November 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           November 5, 2008 Wednesday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 653 words


From a distance one can hear the tantrums that have greeted Nick Griffin's
failed attempt to forge an electoral pact with Ukip. What was planned as a
meeting of minds descended into comedy as his emissary - the former tennis star
and NF poster boy Buster Mottram - left Ukip's executive committee meeting in
central London under his own steam, officials having summoned the police. "Ukip
now faces electoral disaster next June, while the BNP faces the hard battle for
the three clearly winnable seats that we have expected all along, rather than
the shoo-in for four or five BNP seats that this deal would have secured," said
the BNP, reflecting bitterly on what so many will see as a missed opportunity.
Terrible, really. Jorg Haider and now this.

And it was in many ways a difficult meeting for Ukip and its leader Nigel
Farage, for by the end, two executive members had resigned - a row about failing
to adhere to party policy, apparently. And a man who helps with the finances had
been removed from his position. Farage will need all his skills if he is to
retain control. A cattle prod, perhaps.

One wonders how it all looks from Brussels, where Ashley Mote - the Eurosceptic,
ex-Ukipian, and one-time benefit fraudster, has struck a blow for all who refuse
to take the European parliament seriously. On Monday, he arrived at a meeting of
the constitutional affairs committee, signed his name on the attendance register
and then walked straight out again. He didn't say anything. He didn't have to.
They got the message.

We're not sure where he went next, and we haven't time to look - for, like many
others, we have been busy searching for Gareth Thomas. He is a minister with two
berths, one in the foreign aid department, DfiD, the other in the business
department, BERR. The other day the World Development Movement, which is
campaigning to stop the UK government supporting the potentially ruinous
Phulbari coal mine in Bangladesh, sent emails to BERR, asking the minister to
speak out against the mining project, but were told "you need to email him at
DfiD". When they emailed him at DfiD, officials were nice enough, but insisted
"you need to email him at BERR!" He is here for everybody and yet there for no
one. Nice work . . .

With the polls looking bleak, Lembit Opik took a gamble yesterday in his bid to
become president of the Liberal Democrats. He sent colleagues a missive, Home
Truths - "probably the most honest and open letter you'll ever receive from a
candidate during an election". Certainly it was different. "I know I can reach
people in a special way," he promised. "To make them listen and feel listened
too." He has, he proclaimed, "a vision in primary colurs". To get a dictionary,
and use it.

With the election of a new world leader into what promises to be a worldwide
recession, we see perhaps a glimpse of how things are likely to be in the
future. When Vladimir Putin met President Gaddafi of Libya in Moscow at the
weekend, they eschewed the pomp and ceremony for a more informal diplomatic
model, where the visitor played host - as he likes to do - in a tent, pitched in
front of the Kremlin. Putin and Gaddafi, a Bedouin, talked of gas and oil but
they also found time to just be guys hanging out. There were drinks and a
barbecue, a flat-screen TV. And French singer Mireille Mathieu performed before
joining them for an evening under canvas. If this is to be the way leaders will
get together in this time of austerity, it doesn't seem so dreadful. Just get a
bigger tent for the G8.

Of course, whoever becomes leader of the free world will have something to say
about Iraq and the military. The top brass know that. From now on, they be
running a much tighter ship. Yesterday coalition headquarters in Baghdad
released a pretty landscape picture with the unfortunate caption: "Sun sets over
landfill of beautiful disaster." They withdrew it quickly. No one noticed. Just
as well.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           November 5, 2008 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

SPEAKER'S CORNER

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 43 words


"THERE are no circumstances, no possible situations, in which we would even
consider doing any type of deal with the BNP whatsoever." UK Independence Party
leader Nigel Farage finally says something sensible. Mind you, I still think
he's a swivel-eyed nutter.

LOAD-DATE: November 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday

Ukip rejects election pact with BNP

BYLINE: Andrew Porter Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 145  words


THE UK Independence Party has rejected an approach from the British National
Party to form an electoral pact.

Buster Mottram, the former tennis player, is understood to have made the
approach on behalf of the far-Right party at a meeting of Ukip's executive
committee.

Mr Motrram, who claimed to be representing Nick Griffin, the BNP leader, has now
been expelled from Ukip. The party said that he refused to leave the meeting and
they called the police.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader, said: "There are no circumstances, no possible
situations, in which we would even consider doing any type of deal with the BNP
whatsoever. I'm simply amazed that the BNP thought we would even consider such a
thing, given that we are a non-racist, non-sectarian party.''

Mr Griffin had hoped to avoid BNP and Ukip candidates standing against each
other in next year's European elections.

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday
                                 3 Star Edition

UKIP SNUBS A BNP PACT;
POLITICS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 59 words


THE UK Independence Party claims it rejected an electoral pact with the farright
British National Party.

Ukip said former tennis player Buster Mottram offered on behalf of BNP chief
Nick Griffin to give up the south in return for a "free run" in the north.

Leader Nigel Farage said: "There are no situations in which we would consider
any deal with the BNP."

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday

Post vote poll gaffe

LENGTH: 80 words


A COMPLETED ballot paper was addressed by mistake to a Glenrothes by-election
candidate.

The postal vote should have gone to election officials at Fife council.

Instead it was sent to the UKIP candidate, Kris Seunarine.

Depute returning officer Iain Grant said the voter had returned the envelope
with Mr Seunarine's address, rather than that of the election office, visible in
the address window.

Mr Grant said: "The ballot paper will now be dealt with along with other postal
votes."

LOAD-DATE: November 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday

Don't knows face Prescott the persuader

BYLINE:  Angus Macleod

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.21

LENGTH: 956 words


The former Deputy Prime Minister has been called to avert a Labour disaster at
Glenrothes, writes Angus Macleod

John Prescott will be entrusted with making Labour's last push as the Glenrothes
by-election campaign enters its final lap tomorrow.

The former Deputy Prime Minister will enter the fray with the contest on a
knife-edge between Labour and the Scottish National Party as even the bookmakers
struggle to say who will win. Last night the betting put both parties at 5-6 on.

Labour hopes that the "Prezza" factor will make undecided voters in the Fife
constituency back its candidate, Lindsay Roy, ensuring that the SNP does not
inflict its second poll humiliation in Scotland on Gordon Brown in only four
months.

Mr Prescott will follow a well-trodden path to Glenrothes. Mr Brown has visited
the constituency, which borders his own, twice in seven days.Sarah, Mr Brown's
wife, has virtually set up camp in the area, making at least six visits in the
past two weeks to ensure her husband's political recovery is boosted with a
by-election victory. Alistair Darling, the Chancellor, and other senior
ministers have also campaigned in recent days.

In a by-election of paradoxes, the chief one is the SNP, the party that is, on
paper, 10,000 votes behind, is struggling to hold on in the face of increasing
Labour momentum.

Privately, Labour strategists believe that they have closed the gap on the SNP
to such an extent that, in the words of one, "we are looming large in their
rear-view mirror".

He added: "We are making inroads every day. Our problem is that we might not
have enough days left before Thursday."

SNP campaign chiefs, meanwhile, agree that they are probably still in the lead -
just - and maintain that they are reaping the benefit of a party machine built
up in Fife over the years until it has come to resemble something of a
Rolls-Royce. Labour's party machine, on the other hand, has, through a mixture
of laziness and complacency, been allowed to wither - a factor that may prove
crucial when it comes to getting out votes on the day.

The SNP proved its mettle only last year, ousting Labour in the corresponding
Scottish Parliament seat and taking control of the local council, ending 60
years of Labour hegemony in a former mining area that, in the the 1930s,
returned a Communist MP to the House of Commons.

That the by-election has attracted such attention from Labour heavyweights is
something of a surprise in itself. When the incumbent Labour MP, John McDougall,
died in August, the news that there would be a by-election at all was regarded
as something of a disaster for the Brown Government, coming as it did when its
poll ratings were already in intensive care.

It was seen as a heaven-sent chance for the SNP to repeat its stunning victory
in Glasgow East in July where it benefited from a swing of 22 per cent and
overcame a 13,000 Labour majority to win.

But then came the credit crunch, the banking crisis and the global economic
turmoil and suddenly the Prime Minister looked like a politician reborn. Labour
was back with a fighting chance in Glenrothes.

The stakes are high for Mr Brown and Alex Salmond, the Scottish First Minister
and the SNP leader. Mr Brown is desperate not to suffer the embarrassment of
defeat on what is his home turf, while the bullish Mr Salmond is determined to
show that the SNP bandwagon has not come to an unscheduled stop.

Mr Salmond, who has visited the seat ten times in the past few weeks, has
already forecast an SNP win. In spite of that boast, however, he must be worried
the old loyalty to Labour will reassert itself and the recent upheaval at
Scotland's two once-proud banks deeply damages the case for independence in
voters' minds.

Another paradox is although both parties are in government - the SNP in Scotland
and Labour in Westminster - they have fought the by-election as opposition
parties.

Labour has attacked the SNP's local council record - Peter Grant, the SNP
candidate, is the council leader - while the Nationalists have pinned the blame
for the recession on Labour and Mr Brown. Each is hoping the other will suffer
the curse of incumbency.

All candidates have been dogged rather than inspired despite the high stakes
involved. A win for Labour means that Mr Brown's allies can say his summer and
autumn of crisis are definitely at an end and that he has completed a remarkable
escape from the political gallows.

A Nationalist win would flatten the Brown "bounce", resurrect worries among
backbenchers over whether Mr Brown has the capacity to deliver a general
election victory, and once again show that Labour is rapidly losing its grip on
its former Scottish fortresses.

Fight for power

* The population of Glenrothes is 40,000. Labour won the seat at the 2005
election with 19,395 votes, 10,664 ahead of the SNP

* The SNP won Central Fife, which covers the same area, in last year's Scottish
elections by 1,166 votes

* The Nationalists need a swing of 14.2per cent to win on Thursday. The party
won the Glasgow East by-election in July with a swing of 22.5 per cent from
Labour

* The seat combines Glenrothes new town with a section of the Fife coalfield to
form a mostly working-class constituency that stretches inland from the north
coast of the Firth of Forth

* After Glenrothes, its main urban centres are the coastal industrial towns of
Buckhaven and Methil

* The candidates are: Morag Balfour (Scottish Socialist Party);Maurice Golden
(Conservative), below; Peter Grant (SNP);Louise McLeary (Solidarity); Jim Parker
(Scottish Senior Citizens Unity Party); Lindsay Roy (Labour); Kris Seunarine (UK
Independence Party); Harry Wills (Liberal Democrat)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            November 4, 2008 Tuesday

'Don't knows' face Prescott the persuader

BYLINE:  Angus Macleod

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Scotland; Pg.21

LENGTH: 947 words


The former Deputy Prime Minister has been called to avert a Labour disaster at
Glenrothes, writes Angus Macleod

John Prescott will be drafted into the by-election contest in Glenrothes
tomorrow in a last-ditch bid by the Labour Party to convince undecided voters in
the constituency to back Gordon Brown.

The presence of the former deputy prime minister on the final day of campaigning
before Thursday's vote illustrates how close the contest is, although last night
bookmakers said that the SNP had regained the title of slight favourites.

Mr Prescott said that he would spend the day in the Fife seat attacking the
local SNP-led council, which is headed by Peter Grant, the SNP's by-election
candidate, over rises in home care charges.

He will also portray Lindsay Roy, the Labour candidate and headmaster of the
Prime Minister's former school, Kirkcaldy High, as a source of inspiration for
young people in the area.

Mr Prescott claimed that the outcome of the by-election was still important to
him even though he is now out of frontline politics. The SNP remain sure that
they can overturn Labour's 10,664 majority at the 2005 general election.

Alex Salmond, the First Minister and SNP leader, reiterated his conviction that
his party would win. He told the Daily Politics programme on BBC2 that steeply
increased energy bills, which are now beginning to land on people's doormats,
were a major factor in the contest and one on which the Nationalists have
relentlessly campaigned.

Mr Salmond said an SNP victory would advance the case for independence but would
not change the party's timetable for a referendum.

"The issue of the constitution isn't going to be settled in a single election
contest, it has to be settled in a referendum," Mr Salmond said.

"Because - quite rightly - many people will be voting SNP this Thursday because
they are shocked and disgusted by paying 30 per cent, 40 per cent - in one case
I even saw 50 per cent - more on their gas bill at a time when energy prices are
falling, and they are looking for something to be done about it."

The SNP also claimed that Labour's recent momentum, which has, by common
consent, seen them close the gap on the Nationalists, had peaked and begun to
run out of steam.

The party said that the decision to send more than 1,000 SNP activists into the
constituency over the weekend would prove decisive. "We are out-organising a
downbeat and negative Labour party," an SNP spokesman said.

The Nationalists have resurrected the slogan "Yes, We Can", which they deployed
in the 1997 general election campaign. "It's positive, upbeat and optimistic", a
spokesman said.

So important has the result of the by-election become for the Prime Minister,
who holds the neighbouring seat of Kirkcaldy and Cowdenbeath, that he is keeping
in close touch with developments during his visit to the Gulf states.

Yesterday, it emerged that he had sent a personal letter to 15,000 voters in the
constituency urging them to back Mr Roy.

The letter warned against independence and vowed to steer the country through
the current troubled economic times.

He also spoke of his pride in being from Fife and added: "I will do all it takes
to save jobs, keep food and fuel prices low and bring stability back to our
financial system."

Meanwhile , it emerged that a completed ballot paper was addressed by mistake to
one of the candidates in the by-election.

The postal ballot paper should have gone to election officials at Fife Council
but instead it went to Kris Seunarine, the UK Independence Party candidate.

"I was shocked to receive someone else's completed ballot paper in my mail,"
said Mr Seunarine, who passed it on to election officials.

Iain Grant, the deputy returning officer, said: "It appears that the elector did
not follow the instructions regarding the return of their postal vote."

He said the voter had put the ballot paper in the envelope in such a way that Mr
Seunarine's address, rather than that of the election office, was visible in the
address window.

"I can now confirm the ballot paper has been handed to the elections office and
will be dealt with along with other postal votes," he said.

The Liberal Democrats, in third place in the seat in 2005, will today wheel out
two of their big party guns - Sir Menzies Campbell, the former party leader and
himself a Fife MP, and Vince Cable, the party's economics spokesman in the
Commons.

Bookmakers William Hill said last night that the SNP are now 4/6 favourites to
win the by-election. Labour have lengthened from 5/6 joint favourites to 11/10.
Hills offer the Conservatives and Lib Dems each at 100/1.

FIGHT FOR POWER

The population of Glenrothes is 40,000. Labour won the seat at the 2005 election
with 19,395 votes, 10,664 ahead of the SNP

The SNP won Central Fife, which covers the same area, in last year's Scottish
elections by 1,166 votes

The Nationalists need a swing of 14.2per cent to win on Thursday. The party won
the Glasgow East by-election in July with a swing of 22.5 per cent from Labour

The seat combines Glenrothes new town with a section of the Fife coalfield to
form a mostly working-class constituency that stretches inland from the north
coast of the Firth of Forth After Glenrothes, its main urban centres are the
coastal industrial towns of Buckhaven and Methil

The candidates are: Morag Balfour (Scottish Socialist Party); Maurice Golden
(Conservative), pictured; Peter Grant (SNP); Louise McLeary (Solidarity); Jim
Parker (Scottish Senior Citizens Unity Party); Lindsay Roy (Labour); Kris
Seunarine (UK Independence Party); Harry Wills (Liberal Democrat)

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                November 2, 2008

7 days: People: Pendennis: Brand awareness

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 46

LENGTH: 82 words


MPs keen to criticise the BBC for paying Russell Brand and Jonathan Ross spent a
further £ 1,500 of public money tabling a series of early day motions (£ 300 per
motion) last week. Andrew Mackinlay (Labour) was first, followed by two from
David Taylor (Labour) and one each from Alan Simpson (Labour) and Bob Spink (
Ukip). Taylor suggests the presenters' behaviour was 'puerile' and
'predictable'. These words could also be used to describe publicity-seeking
politicians leaping on the bandwagon.


LOAD-DATE: November 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 55 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            November 2, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

The many faces of a brilliant buf foon

BYLINE: By Graham Ball

SECTION: FEATURES; 28

LENGTH: 812  words


THE GRIM prospect of a recession has cast a huge shadow over public life.

No one seems able to lift the gloom, inspire optimism or spot the light at the
end of the tunnel. No one, that is, except Boris Johnson, the larger-thanlife
Tory Mayor of London.

With his mop of white hair, vigorous stride and bufferish manner, he has the
unique talent to raise the spirits of supporters and opponents alike.

How does he do it? Is he the clown prince of politics or a shrewd operator whose
appearance deceives his detractors?

"Boris is much more than just a bumbling idiot or an intelligent man
masquerading as a fool, " says Aruna Vasudevan, who has just written a book
about him. "He is a 21st-century icon; a man whose face and figure have
dominated the media and whose words and misdemeanours have been quoted and
reported by commentators around the world." Aruna's book, The Thinking Man's
Idiot, is a collection of brilliant "Boris-isms", the selected wit and wisdom
from the man himself, along with the views of those who know him.

"The title is not intended as a personal indictment of Boris. I borrowed it from
the late Humphrey Lyttelton and it captures one aspect of Boris's persona.
Beneath it all, though, he's a man of great humour, wit and political ability.

"He's the most interesting politician we have right now, " she adds. "He is
charismatic and not shut off, he still cycles to work and is very popular w ith
the public. Unfortunately, he's often quoted out of context but, in reality, I'm
convinced that he is an incredibly funny and clever man." Here, from the new
book, in his own words and in the observations of others, is a taste of the
curious life of Boris. . .

When asked whether he would stand for leadership of his party: "Will I throw my
hat into the ring? It depends what kind of ring and what kind of hat I have in
my hand."

On being Mayor of London: "Every day I wake up with a sense of wonderment that
I'm Mayor of London. Obviously, I realise that other people may also feel a
little wonderment. . ."

On a walkabout in Belfast: A man approached him and said: "How can somebody as
fat as you get so many good-looking women to find you attractive?" Boris
replied: "This strikes me as a trick question."

On Desert Island Discs: "All politicians in the end are like crazed wasps in a
jam jar, each individually convinced that they are going to make it."

On his political opponents: "I can hardly condemn Ukip as a bunch of boss-eyed,
foam-flecked Euro hysterics when I have been sometimes not far short of
boss-eyed, foam-flecked hysteria myself."

On visiting Portsmouth last year: "Here we are, in one of the most depressed
towns in southern England, a place that is arguably too full of drugs, obesity,
under-achievement and Labour MPs."

Ian Hislop on a TV chat-show: "People always ask me: 'Is Boris a very, very
clever man pretending to be an idiot?' And I always say: 'No'."

Commenting on the Big Brother TV show: "I didn't see it but it sounds barbaric.
It's become like cock fighting; poor dumb brutes being set upon each other by
conniving TV producers."

His sporting life: "I love tennis with a passion.

I challenged Boris Becker to a match once and he said he was up for it but he
never called back.

I bet I could make him run around."

On the question of drugs: "What's my view on drugs? I've forgotten my view on
drugs. I think I was once given cocaine but I sneezed and so it did not go up my
nose. In fact, I may have been doing icing sugar."

While on the campaign trail in 2005 Boris had this to say about healthy eating:
"I'm kicking off my diet with a cheeseburger. Whatever Jamie Oliver says,
McDonald's are incredibly nutritious and, as far as I can tell, crammed full of
vital nutrients and rigid with goodness."

In answer to an e-mail question: "You confessed to having a crush on Polly
Toynbee. What is it about Polly that seems to drive Tory boys wild?"

Boris: "Oh, lord. It's just she's so bossy and posh.

Is that the right answer?"

During the 2005 election campaign, he pointed out the benefits of voting
Conservative:"Voting Tory will cause your wife to have bigger breasts and
increase your chance of owning a BMW M3."

The writer Andrew Gilligan's verdict: "It is better to have a serious man being
a buffoon than a buffoon pretending to be a serious man." Boris's reply: "I
think the reason there is all this beastliness towards Gilligan is because he is
not particularly good-looking."

And, finally, an entry from Conference Diary in October 2005: "I'm backing David
Cameron's campaign out of pure, cynical self-interest."

To order The Thinking Man's Idiot (New Holland, GBP 4.99) with free UK delivery,
please send a cheque or PO made payable to the Sunday Express Bookshop to: PO
Box 200, Falmouth TR11 4WJ, or call 0871 521 1302 with credit/debit card details
(calls cost 10p per min from BT landlines) or order online at www.
expressbookshop. com

LOAD-DATE: November 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SOUNDBITES: London Mayor Boris Johnson is a paradoxical figure and
always quotable

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                          The Daily Telegraph (London)

                           November 1, 2008 Saturday

INTERVIEW;
I don't know any oligarchs and I have never been on a yacht

BYLINE: Mary Riddell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 995  words


A NOVICE ... scant international experience. The criticisms levelled at the new
European Trade Commissioner suggest that Britain has produced a home-grown Sarah
Palin. Cathy Ashton is sanguine about the barbs.

"I don't take any umbrage at the fact that people said: 'Oh, who is she? What
does she bring?' I would be asking the same question. People weren't expecting
Peter Mandelson to go.'' On the day that Lord Mandelson was recalled to Cabinet,
Baroness Ashton, then leader of the House of Lords, was telephoned by Gordon
Brown. "He said: 'I want you to go to Brussels. I think you'll do a fantastic
job. Off you go.' ''

With barely time to tell her husband, the pollster Peter Kellner, of her new
job, she was advised by No 10 to get on the next Eurostar to meet the EU
president, Jose Manuel Barroso. "He was very pleased it was a woman, because he
was trying to get as many women in his commission as possible. He said I was the
person he was thinking of.''

Mr Barroso's view was not universally shared. Some critics said Baroness
Ashton's appointment was a reward for steering the Lisbon treaty through the
Lords. Others claimed that the post would have gone to the Transport Secretary,
Geoff Hoon, but for the fact that Mr Brown could not afford to hold and lose a
by-election.

"I don't know what considerations the PM took into account,'' she says in her
first interview since her appointment. "Geoff would be great in Europe. He's
great in transport. I don't know whether that [the by-election] was a
consideration. What was nice for me is that Gordon thought I could do the job.''

Others were less sure. Her social policy background led one newspaper to dub her
"Baroness One-Parent Families.'' Nigel Farage, of UKIP, said she "clearly lacked
the necessary qualifications'', adding that it was "not the time for a novice;
we need a big hitter.''

She says: "It's up to me to take the flak.'' Whatever her lack of direct
experience, Cathy Ashton is no Sarah Palin. Besides lacking moose-shooting
skills and a Neiman Marcus wardrobe (she buys her work outfits from a shop in
her home town of St Albans), she is a skilful politician.

An economist by background, and ennobled by Tony Blair, she spent only 16 months
in Cabinet before getting what Mr Farage called "the most important trade job in
the world''. Even doubters think that she has handled her accession with aplomb.

Fast-tracked through the EU appointment process at her own request, she emerged
with credit from a gruelling cross-questioning by MEPs. "It was nerve-racking
because everything rested on me. I knew I could get the support if I performed
well.''

Her election by 538 votes to 40, with the British Tory contingent abstaining due
to her inexperience, was greeted with relief by many colleagues delighted that
Peter Mandelson was gone. Caroline Lucas, of the Greens, said she was "far more
appropriate than her predecessor''. One MEP describes Lord Mandelson, less
politely, as "a disaster as a commissioner, who can't negotiate ... he's so
arrogant''.

Though loath to criticise the previous incumbent, who has been "lovely'',
Baroness Ashton says she will be introducing changes. "Well, everyone has their
own style. Peter did a fantastic job in my view, but I bring a different style.
For some people, that style is more what they're looking for.'' On developing
countries - an area where Lord Mandelson was thought by critics to have
performed especially poorly - she plans "a different tone''.

Besides reviving the Doha trade round, her to-do list includes building better
trade links with Russia. Will she be spending any time on oligarchs' yachts?

"I don't know any oligarchs. I don't think I've ever been on anyone's yacht.''
Presumably, she won't be holidaying with the Rothschilds or George Osborne? "I
don't know any Rothschilds, and I don't know George Osborne particularly ... I
go on holiday with people I know well; friends with whom I can relax. I don't go
on holiday with people I've either just met or whom I don't consider to be my
friends.''

While she says some professional contacts have become friends, she draws a clear
dividing line between work and fun. "If you're meeting people for a business
purpose, you meet them in an appropriate way. It might be dinner; or a [formal]
meeting ... I come from a tradition that says you must be seen to be open about
what you do and that you have to provide information in order to help people see
what you're doing. You must be open, and you must demonstrate that openness.''
Though she does not mention him, she could hardly put a clearer distance between
herself and Lord Mandelson.

She must build some fast contacts with China and South Korea. "They don't know
me from Eve. But they will.'' Does she think, as one MEP has claimed, that her
mixed reception is due to sexism? "I don't know. I'm the first British woman
commissioner and the first woman trade commissioner.'' She is also the first
post-holder to arrive so tardily; taking over Lord Mandelson's term with one
year left to run. This has led to a further gripe; if she leaves in 12 months,
her reported  pounds 180,000 salary will be boosted by a pay-off and an  pounds
8,000 annual pension.

"I haven't the faintest idea what I'm paid. Pay wasn't at the forefront of my
mind when the PM asked me to go to Brussels. My concern is to have enough money
to live on; to pay my bills; to come home and see Peter and the kids.''

It seems possible that Baroness Ashton will not be coming home for good any time
soon. The signs so far are that her critics have under-estimated her. She is
looking beyond a stopgap posting. Asked if she would like her tenure to be
extended to the full five years, she says: "That's in the gift of the PM. But if
he were eager, and I think I've done a good job, that would be terrific. We
shall see.''

Baroness Ashton raised eyebrows when she was named as the first woman European
Trade Commissioner, but her critics might be in for a shock, says Mary Riddell

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 55 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           November 1, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Back home to defend his kingdom Fife;
Buoyed by the polls, Gordon Brown senses victory in the Glenrothes by-election.
Jonathan Brown reports

BYLINE: Jonathan Brown

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 681 words


IT WAS the pop star Julian Cope who, when asked to conjure up his vision of
Hell, described it as a "small place in Scotland called Glenrothes". Earlier
this year after Labour was turfed out of its Glasgow East stronghold by the SNP,
the death of the Fife new town's MP looked set to turn it into Gordon Brown's
nightmare too.

But that was before the small matter of an international financial meltdown saw
the Prime Minister hailed as the unlikely saviour of global capitalism.
Meanwhile, Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond saw his dream of a north
European arc of prosperity alongside Iceland left with about as much credit as a
customer at Icesave.

Yesterday, as Mr Brown defied convention to make his second visit to the
constituency famed for its roundabouts and shopping centre, the final result was
too close to call. Both parties insist they can win next Thursday, although
conventional wisdom - so spectacularly wrong last time - has it that Labour will
hold on. Just. The Government is defending a majority of 10,664 - less than in
Glasgow East - and until the turmoil in the financial markets, Mr Brown was seen
as a liability.

As he arrived yesterday at a social club in the old pit village of Cardenden,
the Prime Minister, who represents the neighbouring constituency of Kirkcaldy,
was greeted by a "spontaneous" round of applause from 50 supposedly "undecided"
voters gathered by party activists. Mr Brown was here to lend his support to
Labour candidate Lindsay Roy, who just happens to be the headteacher at his old
school. Here the Prime Minister was in his element, swapping jokes about the
travails of Raith Rovers and lionising local footballing heroes.

The big issues in Glenrothes, according to Labour, are antisocial behaviour, a
lack of opportunities for young people and local transport but the spectre of a
looming recession is not far from anyone's mind and Mr Brown took the
opportunity to lay into the SNP.

"I'm afraid the decisions that the Scottish National Party have been making are
the wrong decisions. They have not done right by Scotland," said the Prime
Minister, keen to lay out his unionist credentials. "They have compared
themselves to economies like Iceland and Ireland that are not doing well at all.
They are small economies doing very badly indeed."

Mr Salmond, making his 10th visit to the constituency, was yesterday
highlighting the soaring costs of energy. The SNP candidate, the Fife council
leader Peter Grant, has been in the unusual position of having gone into the
campaign as favourite. While his opponent got off to a slow start, Mr Grant took
a bad hit this week, picking up the nickname "Homesick" after he said he only
wanted to serve one Westminster term because he could not bear to be away from
Fife.

Undecided voters such as William Brennan, 70, will carry the day. He recently
had to find £4,000 for a motorised scooter. Crippled with emphysema and a heart
condition and with a housebound wife, he was forced to act after the cost of
getting a home help went up from £4 a week to £11 an hour. A life-long Labour
supporter, he is blaming the Government, which in turn is blaming the SNP-run
council.

"Since everything that has happened in the past 18 months, the changes I have
seen affecting me and my wife, we are still making up our minds," he said.

It was a similar story for Elaine Gordon, a 33-year-old mother of two. Her
husband's council salary has been cut and tax credits are not filling the gap.
"When you think about paying the mortgage, the pension and the bills, finding
money for kids' clothes, there isn't that much left over," she said. "I don't
know how I will vote but I wouldn't put the blame on Gordon Brown."

Glenrothes

2005 election result

* John MacDougall MP, Labour, 19,395 votes, 51.91%

* John Beare, SNP 8,731, 23.37%

* Elizabeth Riches, Lib Dems, 4,728, 12.65%

* Belinda Don, Conservative and Unionist, 2,651, 7.09%

* George Rodger, Pensioners Party Scotland, 716, 1.92%

* Morag Balfour, Scottish Socialist Party, 705, 1.89%

* Paul Smith, UK Independence Party, 440, 1.18%

* Electorate: 66,563

* Turnout: 56.14 %

LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
