
                               1 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 31, 2008 Saturday

Reply Letters and emails: Insurgency in Labour's heartlands

BYLINE: Paul Farrelly MP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 386 words


The piece charting the rise of the British National party in Stoke-on-Trent
(Labour's lost ground, G2, May 28) was timely and accurate. Here in neighbouring
Newcastle-under-Lyme we suffer a similar level of insurgency. The xenophobic
message is the same, but in our town the vote goes to a virulent local branch of
the United Kingdom Independence party.

In 2004, when the BNP first came over the border from Stoke, local people sent
them packing. This year voters in the same ward elected the local Ukip leader, a
former Tory. The BNP and Ukip, which now has four seats in Newcastle, do not now
stand against each other locally, from which the conclusion is obvious.

It is not that local people are rightwing or intolerant. Incidents of racial
violence are isolated. As your article pointed out, the first independent
elected mayor of Stoke was gay - as is his Labour successor and the current
Conservative leader of Newcastle-under-Lyme.

What we are seeing is epidemic disaffection in our heartlands. Many this year
voted for the candidate best placed to beat the Labour incumbent. The same
happened in the byelection in Crewe.

Well-meaning government initiatives are only as good as the people, especially
council officers, delivering them on the ground. "Targets" and "outputs" yield
perverse results if it's all about quantity, not quality. And if you don't
communicate well, taking local people along with you, the result is alienation.
It's all very well taking the "right long-term decisions", but in the long term
we are all dead - or in opposition.

In north Staffordshire, investment is going into education. But planners have
allowed low-paid, low-skilled work to mushroom. So aspiration suffers and
insecurity breeds. On skills, we need more radical intervention from government,
like the positive action which took the Inland Revenue to Nottingham. We need
the temporary and agency workers bill, which I first introduced last year, to
tackle workplace insecurity, without resort to racism. We need to build more
affordable housing for people who simply cannot afford to get on the ladder.

In short, we need a recognisably Labour agenda, so our supporters do not heed
the siren calls of the BNP, Ukip or whichever local insurgency taps into our
vote up and down the land.

Paul Farrelly MP

Lab, Newcastle-under-Lyme

LOAD-DATE: May 31, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 35 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 30, 2008 Friday

Taxpayers foot the bill for Euro-MPs' free social website

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 374 words


THE European Parliament is to create its own social networking website at a cost
of pounds 3.2 million to taxpayers.

Creating and running the new service will cost more than pounds 4,000 for each
Euro-MP over the next 18 months, even though many already belong to free and
popular networking sites such as Facebook or Bebo.

Despite the use of taxpayers' cash, MyParl.eu will not be visible to the public,
The Daily Telegraph has learned.

Only parliamentarians and "civil society'', Brussels-speak for officially
sanctioned NGOs and trade associations, will be able to use the site for comment
and debate. "MyParl.eu offers you a unique online political forum with a social
networking tool, enabling you to engage with other parliamentarians across the
EU,'' said the pilot site launched in Brussels yesterday.

Many Euro-MPs have complained at the lack of consultation on the private
service. An existing European Parliament network on Facebook has 650 members.

Godfrey Bloom, a UK Independence Party Euro-MP, attacked the project as "a
colossal waste of money''. "Anybody who wishes to involve themselves in social
networking is already on Facebook or LinkedIn. This is just more propaganda,
masquerading as information.''

After receiving an online demonstration of the website, one Euro-MP's office
asked MyParl organisers whether there was a cost for the service. "Totally free.
Well, not for the taxpayer of course,'' was the answer.

Martin Callanan, a Tory Euro-MP, said: "Facebook is free and offers much more
interactivity than anything eurocrats can dream up.

"It is completely daft for the EU to try to do something that the internet and
online communities are already doing.''

MyParl organisers are trying to get Euro-MPs "social networking'' with national
parliamentarians in an attempt to "communicate Europe'' ahead of European
elections.

Facebook is increasingly popular with politicians all over the world. Barack
Obama is the most popular politician on the website, leading his rival, Hillary
Clinton, by more than 700,000 supporters.

Wen Jiabao, the Chinese prime minister, is the eighth most popular and the
highest placed non-American politician.

Boris Johnson, the London mayor, has more Facebook supporters than President
George W Bush.

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 30, 2008 Friday

£ 3m for Brussels chat site

BYLINE: David Wooding, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 81 words


BIG-spending EU chiefs have blown £ 3million of taxpayers' money setting up a
rival to Facebook.

They want politicians from 27 member states to join new social networking
website myparl.eu.

Almost half its cost will be eaten up translating what they post into all 23 EU
languages.

Last night Godfrey Bloom, UK Independence Party MEP, called the project "a
desperate and failing attempt to be fashionable". He said: "They must have more
money than sense - but it's not their money, it's ours."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              May 30, 2008 Friday

£ 3m EU chat site

BYLINE: David Wooding, Whitehall Editor

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 130 words


EU chiefs have blown £ 3million of taxpayers' cash setting up an internet rival
to Facebook.

They want politicians from 27 member states to join new social networking
website myparl.eu to share ideas and have debates.

Almost half its cost will be eaten up translating what they post into all 23 EU
languages.

Last night the project, which goes live in October, was branded a waste of money
by some of the 650 MEPs who already sign up to Facebook. Godfrey Bloom, UK
Independence Party MEP, called the project "a desperate and failing attempt to
be fashionable".

He said: "They must have more money than sense -but it's not their money, it's
ours." And Mark Wallace, of the TaxPayers' Alliance, said: "There's nothing
worse than politicians spending taxpayers' money on trying to be cool."

LOAD-DATE: May 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 29, 2008 Thursday 7:30 PM GMT

No Euro-sceptics allowed

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 356 words


Although I have been following it closely in the European Parliament, I have so
far not blogged about the plan to make it harder for Euro-sceptic MEPs to form a
group. Now that the Bill has passed its committee stage, though, let the record
show that it is utterly outrageous. The worst possible reason for passing a law
is with a specific person or group of people in mind. Doing so is the very
definition of arbitrary government.

Euro-sceptic MEPs are not welcome in Brussels

Not that anyone seems to care. After all, when the European Parliament did
something even more flagrant  disregarding its own rules so as to prevent
pro-referendum MEPs from making their point in the chamber  the only paper to
cover the story was a Christian magazine in Philadelphia.

The reason I have kept quiet, though, is that I'm not sure that the rule-change
will have the consequence intended by its authors. Their aim is to frustrate
David Cameron's plan to form a non-federalist bloc outside the EPP. But the
effect of raising the thresholds may be to collapse the smaller Euro-sceptic
alliances, notably the Independence and Democracy Group (which contains UKIP),
allowing the Conservatives to pick up the shards and this form a larger bloc
than would otherwise have been possible.

In any case, there are worse things than sitting without pan-European
affiliation. Leaving the EPP is the best thing I have done in the European
Parliament. On my first day as an independent, something happened that had not
occurred in eight years in the EPP: a member of the Parliament's permanent staff
came to my office and asked what she could do to help. As a "Non Inscrit", I
find myself with more resources, more staff, more speaking time and more freedom
of action. Why? Because my allocations are no longer top-sliced by the EPP, and
because I am no longer checked at every turn by EPP staffers who see it as their
job to frustrate Euro-sceptics.

If all else failed, the Conservative MEPs could do very well alone. But I
suspect that, once we raise the banner of opposition, others will flock to us.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 29, 2008 Thursday 12:52 AM GMT

Forcing consensus in the European Parliament

BYLINE: By Alex Singleton

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 198 words


Full coverage of UK Politics                                              A plan
to make it more difficult for minor political groupings to form in the European
Parliament has rightly been criticised by UKIP. For parties that disagree with
Brussels'integrationist consensus,the proposed change would limit their ability
to influence the Parliament and access generous funding. But the most
interesting effect would not be on UKIP but on David Cameron's plans to
establish a new reformist group.

Mr Cameron has pledged to leave the integrationist EPP-ED group and establish a
new grouping after the European elections next year. Under the current rules, Mr
Cameron only needs to find 20 MEPs from a fifth of EU member states. Yet the new
plan would see the requirements raised to 30 MEPs from a quarter of EU member
states.

Given that Mr Cameron does not yet have enough parties likely to join new
grouping under the current requirements, the new rules would create a
significant problem, and require something of a miracle for Mr Cameron to
succeed. Not that this will worry the plan's leading advocate, the British
Labour MEP Richard Corbett.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 35 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             May 28, 2008 Wednesday

Euro-MPs to strip sceptics of cash and influence EU chief warns Irish that they
'will pay' if they reject treaty

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; International; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 412 words


PLANS to eliminate Eurosceptics as an organised opposition within the European
Parliament are expected to be agreed by a majority of Euro-MPs this summer.

They will vote to change the rules governing the political groupings formed by
Euro-MPs, which can be eligible for lavish funding.

Current rules allow 20 Euro-MPs from a fifth of the EU's member states to form a
grouping, giving them a say in the parliament's administration and power
structure.

Under the changes, the threshold would become 30 Euro-MPs from one quarter of
the EU's member states.

Richard Corbett, a British Labour Euro-MP, is leading the campaign to cut the
number of groups in the parliament next year.

The move would dissolve the pan-European Eurosceptic "Independence and
Democracy'' grouping, which includes the UK Independence Party.

The result would be that the largest and pro-EU groups would tighten their grip
on the parliament's political agenda.

"It would prevent single-issue politicians from being given undue support from
the public purse,'' said Mr Corbett.

His proposals would also give the president of the parliament sweeping powers to
approve or reject parliamentary questions.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UKIP, said that the move went hand in hand with
the denial of popular votes on the new EU treaty.

"Welcome to your future. This shows an EU mindset that is arrogant,
anti-democratic and frankly scary,'' he said.

The Liberal Democrats, Greens, the far Left, Eurosceptics and other groupings
have vowed to oppose the plans during a vote scheduled for July 9.

But the proposals are expected to be passed with the backing of the parliament's
centre-Left and Right groupings, which account for 64 per cent of Euro-MPs,
including British Conservative and Labour members.

The row over the new EU treaty took a new turn yesterday after José Manuel
Barroso, the European Commission president, warned Irish voters that they would
"pay'' if they rejected the document in a referendum next month.

Speaking in Brussels, Mr Barroso attempted to head off growing opposition to the
treaty by threatening outcast status for Ireland.

"If there was a 'No' in Ireland or in another country, it would have a very
negative effect for the EU. We will all pay a price for it, Ireland included, if
this is not done in a proper way,'' he said.

Officials fear that advanced plans to create a new EU president, foreign
minister and European diplomatic service would be sunk by an Irish referendum
rejection on June 12.

LOAD-DATE: May 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                  May 25, 2008

A radioactive Gordon Brown is reaching the critical point: The Prime Minister is
under threat as a growing number of his most senior colleagues despair of his
ability to turn things around

BYLINE: Andrew Rawnsley

SECTION: OBSERVER COMMENT PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 1746 words


For a Prime Minister in decline, there comes a point of no return. 'It's the
ridicule,' Harold Macmillan groans to his wife in Howard Brenton's gripping
Never So Good at the National. 'It has reached what I believe atomic scientists
call a critical mass. I am about to turn into a political mushroom cloud.'

Gordon Brown is now going radioactive in the view of a growing number of his
most senior colleagues. Talking to members of the cabinet, I do not detect much
vitriol towards the Prime Minister. What I pick up is a lot of frustration about
his leadership mixed with some sympathy for his plight and, most of all, I hear
despair. After Labour's devastating loss of the Crewe byelection, we are getting
very close to the point where the top table concludes that they do not have any
chance of turning things around with Gordon Brown as their leader.

There is no attempt, even among those ministers who remain loyal, to conceal the
seriousness of what is developing. A move against Mr Brown would be a 'total
disaster' says one of his closest allies in the cabinet, acknowledging that this
is being contemplated even as he deplores the idea of a coup. 'There is a lot of
dangerous stuff going on.'

When a critical mass of the cabinet reaches the conclusion that Gordon Brown is
beyond the point of no return, then it is time to watch for Macmillan's mushroom
cloud exploding over Downing Street.

Noticeably few of the cabinet have been willing to go on to the airwaves to
defend the Prime Minister since Labour took such a numbing beating in Crewe.
Those prepared to brave the cameras have fallen back on the argument that
byelections are unreliable indicators of what will happen at a general election.
Well, they had better hope so. A replication on a national level of the scything
swing from Labour to Tory in Crewe would see a dozen members of the cabinet
getting their P45s from the voters. David Miliband, or whichever other poor sap
got handed the cyanide-laced chalice of leading Labour in opposition, would
stand at the head of a parliamentary army reduced to a rump of 89 MPs.

You don't have to believe that a wipe-out on quite that scale will happen to see
this byelection as a harbinger of doom. Labour finally needs to wake up to how
fundamentally the tectonic plates of politics are shifting against them. Their
failure to comprehend the nature of that change accounts for the magnitude of
the loss in Cheshire. One of the many mistakes made in Crewe was to assume that
gut animosity towards the Tories would be enough to keep people loyal to Labour.
For too long, Labour has too often assumed that they could get by with the
politics of the lesser evil, in effect saying to the voters: 'We may be crap,
but those ghastly Tories would be even crapper.'

That was just enough to win the 2005 general election against a Tory leader with
the vampiric appeal of Michael Howard. But it is clear, and has been clear for a
long time now, that this is far from enough against a Tory party rejuvenated by
David Cameron. The Tories remain fuzzy and flaky in many policy areas, but he
has sufficiently detoxified the Conservatives to make them competitors for
office in a way they have not been for more than a decade. They are seen as
electable by both the public and the elites.

The pathetically misconceived Labour campaign in Crewe, which thought victory
could be achieved by jeering 'Tory boy' at the Conservative candidate,
demonstrated that Labour has utterly failed to grasp what is happening.

There is a huge difference between Labour's recent pummelling defeats and the
midterm losses inflicted on Tony Blair. At the depths of his unpopularity,
anti-Labour protest votes went all over the place. They went to the Lib Dems, to
the Nationalists, to Greens, to independents, to the loony tunes of Ukip. Labour
could always be confident of recovering at the subsequent general election when
anti-Labour votes were scattered around a ragbag of other parties which did not
represent an alternative government. In Crewe and Nantwich, the anti-Labour vote
surged behind the Conservatives to give the Tories their first byelection gain
from Labour in 30 years.

Gordon Brown was not yet an MP and David Cameron was still at prep school when
the Tories last won a byelection at the expense of Labour. Sensible members of
the Tory high command know that they still have work to do making firm converts
of disillusioned Labour voters. David Cameron is worried that some of his
colleagues are already mentally picturing their backsides gliding into the back
seats of ministerial limos and the Tory leader recently gave the shadow cabinet
a private warning that they should betray not a scintilla of triumphalist
presumption about the outcome of the next election. Mr Cameron's lack of Tory
complacency is another reason for Labour to worry.

All oppositions win power, at least in part, on the back of animosity towards
the government. Tory voting that begins as a protest can easily start turning
into a habit. As one anxious member of the cabinet put it to me: 'It doesn't
take much for that to stick.'

What should send more icy shivers up Labour spines is the evidence that they are
now being out-organised by the Conservatives as well. In the local elections, in
the London mayoral contest and now in this byelection, the Tories did better
than was suggested by most of the final opinion polls. That can mean one of two
things, neither of them comforting for Labour. Either the Tory lead is even more
massive than the opinion pollsters think. Or the Conservatives are superior at
mobilising their vote to the polling stations.

Something else to frighten Labour MPs is the smart way the Tories are using
their victories to speak to the country. With his talk of building a coalition
for change into which he wants to welcome everyone discontented with the
government, David Cameron is broadcasting precisely the same messages that Tony
Blair used to send at this point of his march from opposition to government. We
are the modern, centrist, broad and rising party, says Blair/Cameron.
Major/Brown leads the backward-looking, divisive, narrow and declining party
that has lost the plot. Labour's dim, crude and old-fashioned campaign in Crewe
made it even easier for the Tory leader to make this pitch.

Labour's inability to meet this challenge is a strategic failure that starts at
the very top. Gordon Brown can't bring himself to treat David Cameron seriously
so he struggles to comprehend why he is losing votes to him. Because the Prime
Minister can only see the Tories as shallow public-school boys he can't
understand why anyone would prefer them over him.

The Prime Minister has responded to his latest defeat with his default argument
about the economy, telling the public that they should be relieved to have him
in charge because things are worse in the rest of the world and were worse under
the Tories. Factually, Gordon Brown is absolutely correct that interest rates,
unemployment, bankruptcies and repossessions were all much higher when David
Cameron was a bag carrier to Norman Lamont.

Crewe suffered both during the recession of the Major period and the savage
deindustrialisation of the Thatcher era. But even here, even in this northern
railway town that had been scarred by the Conservative years, that argument
didn't persuade voters to stay loyal to Labour. They blew a great big raspberry
at Mr Brown: so bloody what, Prime Minister?

You have to be at least 30 years old to have spent any of your adult life living
under a Conservative government. Young families struggling with the mortgage,
the price of petrol and the weekly shopping bill aren't interested in ancient
history lessons about the last Conservative government. For those who do
remember, whatever they feel about the Tories' past is now eclipsed by their
present hostility to Labour. Much of that is very personal. It is focused on
Gordon Brown himself. His personal ratings are simply terrible. His photo did
not feature on Labour's campaign material in Crewe while mugshots of the Prime
Minister were plastered all over Tory and Lib Dem leaflets. It is always a bad
sign when your opponents regard your leader as their greatest propaganda weapon.

M any Labour MPs are muttering behind their hands what a few are now beginning
to say openly. Some in vengeance, some in sorrow, some in anger, they are asking
whether they need a new leader. They fear that the voters have made up their
minds about Gordon Brown, that the country is reaching a settled conviction that
it doesn't want to like or respect him. One of his senior Labour critics says
bluntly: 'I think it's over for him. It's now less a question of whether he
goes. It's a question of how.'

A member of the cabinet reckons that 'something spectacular' will have to happen
for Mr Brown to reverse the downward trajectory of his premiership. The trouble
is that few can think of any high-value cards still available for the Prime
Minister to play. You can't get much more spectacular than throwing nearly three
billion £ of tax cuts at the voters on the eve of a byelection and that did
nothing to help Labour in Crewe.

Some ministers think it may even have made things worse. Voters concluded not
that the government was trying to help them when they were in difficulty, but
that Gordon Brown would do anything to try to buy himself out of trouble.

'He's got no shots left in the locker,' says a former cabinet minister. He can't
get back on the front foot by unveiling a new legislative programme because he
already used that gambit in the wake of the local election massacre. It is a
cause of bafflement to some members of the cabinet that Mr Brown didn't wait
until after Crewe, when he would have had all his bad electoral news behind him,
before unveiling his forward agenda.

Labour is now emotionally poised between fatalism and panic. Most of its MPs are
ill-equipped to cope with being losers because so few of them have any
experience of defeat. For a decade, they only knew economically benign times, a
malfunctioning opposition and general election victories. Now they contemplate
the abyss.

One of the younger members of the cabinet remarks: 'We are all used to being
lectured by Jack [Straw] about the past, but none of us has been here before.
The party is in completely new territory.'

This terra incognita is dark and it is perilous and they have lost confidence
that their leader possesses a map for getting across it safely.


LOAD-DATE: May 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 35 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             May 24, 2008 Saturday

CLEMENT CRABBE;
More from our columnist, the scabrous Clement Crabbe, of The Rockpools Register,
who takes a wry, whimsical look at a world increasingly beyond parody

BYLINE: Clement Crabbe

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 787 words


WORST news of the week was Monty Don's decision to step down as presenter of
Gardeners' World. Monty, 52, has had a minor stroke.

Britain's garden delvers and dibblers will hope he is soon back in bud. Give
that man a schooner of Baby Bio.

The vacancy caused by this sad development is more political than the
by-election in Crewe (which was won, please note, by a Monty Don lookalike). Who
will the BBC choose to succeed Monty? Will it be a proper gardener or some
plasticated bloom who wears too much makeup? Will it be a proper weed yanker or
some hairsprayed ninny from 'lifestyles'? The great thing about Monty was that
you felt he wore those gumboots and chunky sweaters even when the TV cameras
weren't present. The way he jabbed his fork into the soil, he could have been
attacking a much-hated public enemy: the taxman, perhaps, or Mariella Frostrup..

Monty had a gentlemanly, soft-spoken air. He took over from Alan Titchmarsh,
that shouty, municipal begonia who was always going on about 'me green'ouse' or
'me wellies'.

Now Monty's off, BBC executives will be plotting. The corporation's urbanites
will be digging for oriental grass enthusiast Joe Swift, whose tongue seems too
big for his mouth..

Rachel de Thame would be even worse. Overscented, cosmetic-caked de Thame is the
would-be Nigella of the raspberry canes   except that she lacks lovely Nigella's
charm and recently said design was more important than horticultural knowledge.
If de Thame gets it, Crabbe will jump into a pot of boiling water.

Sarah Raven   the chubby one who is seldom let out of the greenhouse   is a
nonrunner

COULD they also find a job on Gardeners' World for poor Gordon Brown. Compost
heap attendant? Bonfire supervisor? Wheelbarrow operative, 2nd class? He'd enjoy
it more than his current position.

WITH forecourt prices so steep you might expect septuagenarian rally driver
Edith Marmite to be depressed. Au contraire.

Edith hopes record fuel costs will drive some of the 'amateurs and time wasters'
off the road.

Who does she mean? 'The school run brigade, Bank Holiday dawdlers on the M5
going down to Cornwall and anyone in a four-wheel drive Porsche,' barks Edith,
gripping the steering wheel as she negotiates a 'traffic calming' chicane in the
suburbs.

Neowww! Beat that, Monte Carlo.

Marmite has a point. Many vehicle journeys are unnecessary. Thousands of council
buses pootle around almost completely empty. They could be scrapped and council
tax lowered, allowing citizens to afford taxis.

Think of all those police patrol cars which waste petrol, normally on trips to
the local chip shop. Let's just park a few by the kerb every day. They'd act as
deterrents yet use no fuel.

Ministerial limousines? Axe them immediately. Ditto all topless tourist buses.
Make visitors climb the nearest church tower if they want a view.

Marmite would also ban courier let out of the greenhouse   is a nonrunner bean
because: a) she has a big mail-order business and is, therefore, too commercial;
b) she's married to some angular aristocrat who wants to concrete over the south
of England; c) her Chelsea mockney accent would drive everyone mad.

Which leaves us with hippyish Carol Klein, the bedraggled Mancunian.

Carol has heretical views about lawns ('what a waste of space'), but she at
least has authentically muddy fingernails. Not a patch on Monty, but she'd do..

firms with their noisy bikes and badly-driven vans. People can jolly well use
the Royal Mail.

With a little judicious pruning we can reduce traffic volumes by at least 30 per
cent.

CHOLERIC armlifter Jonathan Furey was in a foul mood owing to National
Vegetarian Week ('a pox on those sweet potatoes!').

Things turned even less savoury for him when David Cameron's Conservatives won
the Crewe byelection.

On hearing the result he howled like a mating dog.

Dr Furey, self-styled keeper of the Thatcherite flame, was supporting UKIP. With
his flair for Johnsonian invective he had even offered the brawny lads at UKIP
his services with the megaphone.

After they heard a few of his slogans, however, they declined, fearing arrest
under public disorder rules.

On returning to Schloss Furey in Essex yesterday our enraged ginger hero poured
himself a tankard of foaming port wine. It contained enough units of alcohol to
float today's Royal Navy. That's not sayin' much, mind you.

THE political weather may be changing but Sylvia Rasp, mastermind behind the
campaign to eradicate southern accents from Radio 4, perseveres with her evil
work. Latest evidence of her handiwork was the announcer who read the news on
Radio 4 on Thursday night, his weedy Scouse being unable to say 'Birmingham'
without giving emphasis to the 'haitch' of 'ham'. The fella's name was Alan. You
have been warned..

LOAD-DATE: May 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 23, 2008 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Parliamentary rejoinders

BYLINE: William Wallace

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 41

LENGTH: 92 words


* David Howell attacks Liberal Democrats in the Lords for not supporting what
was a Ukip amendment, proposed as a mechanism for getting the UK out of what
Ukip lords still insist on calling "the Common Market" (Letters, May 22). Nick
Clegg has made it clear that Lib Dems firmly believe EU membership to be in
Britain's national interest. We accept that public opinion has drifted away from
support for the EU and we will promote a wider debate on how EU membership
serves Britain's interests over the next few months.

William Wallace

Lib Dem, House of Lords

LOAD-DATE: May 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 23, 2008 Friday 3:28 PM GMT

Crewe and Nantwich by-election: Reflections from the Crewe count

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 467 words


Full coverage of the Crewe and Nantwich by-election
The word 'historic' gets bandied around all over the place, but I think there is
some cause to describe the Tory victory in Crewe in such terms.

After a count lasting four and a half hours, we witnessed the returning officer
announce that a Tory candidate had gained a seat at a by-election for the first
time since 1982 and the first directly from Labour since 1978.

Paddy Power had paid out on a Tory victory before a single vote was cast on
polling day, but the scale of Edward Timpson's win - with a majority a little
shy of 8,000 on a swing from Labour of 17.6 per cent -surprised many.

In fact, Labour had been briefing earlier in the day that they expected a Tory
majority in that region - with the actual expectation it would be less and that
they could claim it wasn't as bad as expected.

Each of the main parties had number crunchers at the count keeping the media up
to speed on progress. Full marks to the Lib Dem by-election supremo Lord
Rennard: when Tory Eric Pickles predicted a Tory majorityof six to seven
thousand, Rennard interjected that it would be nearer eight thousand - it was
7,860.

Much jollity from the Raving Loony Party contingent: their candidate wore the
only top hat in Crewe of the night. Meanwhile, Miss Great Britain, Gemma
Garrett, was also a welcome distraction, posing for photos withanyone and
everyone, and handing out signed photos - one of which I noticed was snapped up
by the Ukip candidate.

The result certainly showed that the people had obeyed the Conservative leaflets
being handed out on polling day, recommending that they "send Gordon Brown a
message" by voting Conservative. The Toriessucceeded in demonstrating that they
were the only party which could beat Labour - something which the Lib Dems have
previously excelled at in by-elections.

The acceptance speech of new MP Edward Timpson was extremely gracious, praising
his "remarkable and redoubtable" predecessor, although he had political points
to make as well, concluding that "Gordon Brown does not get it".

Tamsin Dunwoody also paid tribute to her late mother and put her defeat down to
it being a difficult mid-term by-election.

Labour spokesmen did try to put a brave face on it and claim that it was "just a
by-election" and to a degree it remains to be seen whether the impact of this
result is felt in the long term as well as the short term. But the new MP
clearly thinks it will: he declared that his victory marked a "sea-change in
British politics".

Watch out now for David Cameron's speech in Crewe at 10.15 this morning. I
gather he is going to expand on the significance to be drawn from his party's
winning this seat in the way it did.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       May 22, 2008 Thursday 12:03 AM GMT

House of Lords hastens its own demise

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 376 words


Full coverage of UK Politics                                              Do you
remember the excuse the Lib Dems gave for reneging on their manifesto promise of
a referendum on the European Constitution Lisbon Treaty?

I want a referedum but do the Lib Dems?

You don't? Then allow me to refresh your memory. The reason that the Lib Dems
wouldn't support the referendum, Nick Clegg said, was that it was the wrong sort
of referendum.

What he wanted was not a plebiscite on Lisbon, but one on what he called "the
real issue": should Britain be in the EU. Here, for example, is what he said on
the Today programme on 25 April:

"The positional we took was that the referendum, which we wanted to see take
place, was a referendum on the big question about Europe, which is whether we
stay in or out. What we disagreed with, as the party, was the Conservative
proposal to have a referendum,a very narrow referendum,only on this Lisbon
Treaty. And even if the Tories had got their way and there was a referendum, it
had then been rejected, it wouldn't have changed a thing to the way in which the
European Union is presently organised. So we wanted the serious debate on the
underlying issue, the underlying angst, if you like, in the European issue. We
were thwarted in our attempt to even have that debate in the House of Commons,
we made our ... I made my sort of, you know, frustration about that perfectly
plain".

Hardly Cicero, but you get his point. Last night, in the House of Lords, Lord
Pearson of Rannoch, who takes the UKIP whip, duly proposed what the Lib Dems
said they wanted: an in-or-out referendum. So, did they back him? You guessed
it. "We didn't want to give any succour to UKIP," one of their peers explained.

Lord Pearson's motion was eventually defeated by 74 votes to 7. I can't say that
the Lib Dems have done themselves much damage: frankly, it's hard to see how
they could have come across as any more hypocritical on this issue than they
already did. But the Lords, as a chamber, have. It can only be a matter of time
before the Upper House, as currently constituted is abolished.

LOAD-DATE: November 14, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 19, 2008 Monday

Media: Platform for free speech ... or hate?: Set up as a means for readers to
publish their opinions, sites such as My Telegraph raise questions at the heart
of the online debate

BYLINE: Sean Dodson

SECTION: GUARDIAN MEDIA PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 1267 words


Imagine that you are the editor of a national newspaper. After launching a new
service on your website, a minority of your journalists start submitting copy
that is clearly distasteful. None of the content is libellous or in breach of
hate laws, but it would be considered as offensive by large sections of the
public. What do you do?

You could advise your journalists to desist, order a rewrite or spike the
offensive content. Beyond that, the only choice for many editors is to fire
them. But what if the questionable content is coming from your readers? Do you
treat it any differently? Would you likewise censor the offensive content, even
though it's not quite breaking the law?

Interactive pitfalls

Similar questions are being asked by editors around the world as the
relationship between newspapers and their readers continues down the twisty road
of interactivity. No doubt, such questions are being asked this week at the
Telegraph as it reflects on the first anniversary of the paper's bold experiment
with user-generated content. This time last year, it launched My Telegraph
(my.telegraph.co.uk), a service that gives its readers the opportunity to
publish their own stories beneath its famous gothic masthead. This embrace of
user-generated content helped the Telegraph win a Cross Media Award from the
international news publishers' organisation Ifra last October. One of the
judges, Robert Cauthorn, described it as "the best deployment of blogging yet
seen in any newspaper".

But a year on from launch, the Telegraph's experiment has put it in the front
line of a sensitive but important issue for online newspapers - how to manage
and develop user-generated content. A cursory glance reveals that while it has
some powerful and well-written blogs, My Telegraph is also inhabited by some
very unsavoury characters, including a minority of active members of the far
right, anti-abortionists, europhobes and members of an anti-feminist "men's
movement". Such comments appear on all websites, the Guardian included. The
difference with My Telegraph and similar sites overseas is that the newspaper is
providing the platform for others to start the debate. On most comment sites,
bloggers sanctioned by the newspaper group typically do so.

Several My Telegraph bloggers have trenchant views on political correctness, EU
membership and race. One likens the Daily Mirror to an outpost of the Stasi and
another blames women for prostitution. It includes posts from active members of
the BNP itself. Regular bloggers include Carlos Cortiglia (my.telegraph.co.uk/

Carlos-Cortiglia/), who stood as a BNP candidate for the Greater London
authority in the 2004 London election.

Unlike Cortiglia, most bloggers hide their true identities behind personas.
Telegraph bloggers can choose their own icon. Popular ones include Del Boy,
Barry George and Enoch Powell. One called "Lickylips" (who chooses the icon of a
pit-bull) publishes BNP campaign literature and flyers (tinyurl.com/594bdu).

"There are more than 20,000 users registered on the system and they produce
hundreds of blog posts and thousands of comments every day," says a Telegraph
spokeswoman. "When you have an open platform - whether it's My Telegraph or the
Guardian's Comment Is Free - then you have to accept that a multiplicity of
views will be expressed on it and that some of those views will be unpalatable
to some people."

She adds: "Our readers are entitled to their opinions and, within the scope of
the law, they're entitled to publish them on My Telegraph."

Most papers, including the Telegraph, now employ a team of people whose job is
to moderate user-generated content. The process differs from organisation to
organisation. Some publishers "post-moderate" - in reaction to readers' or
editors' complaints or monitoring (the Guardian does this); some "pre-moderate"
(such as the Daily Mail) and only allow vetted comments to be published.

A year on, My Telegraph has many passionate users. When Shane Richmond,
communities editor of Telegraph.co.uk, posted a blog about this article on
Friday, a My Telegraph user called the Guardian to quote Voltaire on free
speech.

The Telegraph is not the only newspaper to provide such a platform. The Sun also
allows its readers to publish their own blogs with its My Sun service
(thesun.co.uk/portal/site/mysun). The red-top uses a "reactive moderation"
system which relies on its readers to police material on the site. It features
wannabe glamour models who post pictures of themselves and invite others to
leave comments. The pictures are checked before they go live. My Sun employs a
team of 10 moderators who work around the clock. It claims that all complaints
are dealt with in 15 minutes.

Ilana Fox, editor of My Sun, says: "About a year ago BNP members started posting
on our message boards. What we found was that our community rallied round and
took the BNP to task."

Every Telegraph blog has a flag offering readers the chance to report the link.
A spokeswoman says that its site includes content from Conservative, Labour and
Ukip activists. "We don't endorse content posted by BNP supporters but we accept
that they are a legal political party and they have the same right to free
speech as anyone else."

Gatekeepers

My Telegraph will be relaunched later this summer but the company has declined
to say whether it has any plans to change the site. The Telegraph says: "It's
been clear from day one that My Telegraph is a platform for our readers to
express their own views. That said, we are a responsible publisher and have a
team in place to respond to reader complaints . . . Readers can report content
that concerns them and appropriate action will be taken."

Yet one BNP apologist and active blogger on the site described themselves as
"poised like a cobra to strike and defend England from the Muslim menace" and no
one seems to have complained (my.telegraph.co.uk/AML/).

Most forms of newspaper website interactivity can be like this. The Guardian's
own Comment Is Free can attract opinion unlikely to be published in the paper.
The difference is largely that the article which spawns the debate is always
written by a "commissioned" blogger. Here, in new media parlance, the
journalists act as "gatekeepers" initiating the story and moderating the
discussion. My Telegraph, however, unlocks the gate and hands over the key.

Meg Pickard, the Guardian's head of communities, says: "We're all facing the
same challenges with developing and managing user-generated content, although
we're approaching it in different ways . . . While it's easy to dwell on the
negative aspects of managing user-generated content, in general most interaction
on newspaper sites is civil, and we feel privileged to host and inspire such an
interesting range of vibrant conversations."

Debating the point does not mean that allowing readers to blog on newspaper
websites is a bad, or even new, idea. The Telegraph followed the Norwegian Daily
Verdens Gang (VG), which revived its fortunes in 2005 by allowing its readers to
set up their own blogs. The site - which has attracted over 25,000 bloggers,
15,000 of which are fairly active - initially attracted a range of extreme views
on race and the Middle East.

Geir Ruud, VG's online foreign editor, explains that the paper decided to tackle
the problem of bloggers abusing the system by requiring mobile phone numbers at
registration. "When you give people freedom of speech, it doesn't always bring
out the best in them. A minority go too far outside of the legal borders but we
have a good control system. If they continue to misbehave we kick them out."

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 19, 2008 Monday

A date with destiny for 'Gordon the Complex'

BYLINE:  Tim Hames

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.21

LENGTH: 964 words


* A warning to Labour: beware June 15, 2009.

The day June 15 has a noble history to it. It was on that day in 1215 that King
John affixed his seal to the Magna Carta. A rather more obscure historical event
may, though, set a precedent that is more relevant to British politics. It was
on June 15, AD923, that Charles the Simple, King of France, son of Louis the
Stammerer, nephew of Charles the Fat was brutally deposed from power at the
Battle of Soissons, imprisoned and died from his maltreatment some six years
later.

Not many people would describe our Prime Minister as "the Simple". Gordon the
Complex would be more accurate. Yet the date - before any general election -
when Mr Brown is at most danger of suffering this ancient French king's fate
(minus imprisonment and maltreatment; even the Labour Party in a blind panic is
not that bad) is next year on Monday, June 15, 2009.

Some insist that he will meet a sticky end much sooner. The consensus among the
commentators is that the Prime Minister is washed up and has been so ever since
last autumn's election that never was. Such a belief is the product of short
memories.

It is only ten weeks ago that the Conservative lead in the opinion polls was a
slim 3 per cent and the smart money was on Ken Livingstone to win again in
London. It is not the election that never was but an economy that is up the
spout that is the issue.

The real mistake last October was not ducking the hustings but the Pre-Budget
Report that came after it when the Government tried to compete with a Tory
pledge on inheritance tax, enraged the non-doms (which should have been
aggrieved at George Osborne, the Shadow Chancellor, for turning the spotlight on
them in the first place) and the business community, while spectacularly failing
to defuse the 10p tax band bomb before it became explosive.

Mr Brown is thus as safe as houses this June. To move against him now would be
madness. It would make the Labour Party seem ludicrous. It would do nothing to
ease the international economic situation - the core of the Government's woes -
which this Prime Minister is plainly better placed to have influence than any
successor. It would also be deeply irrational timing as the rocky state of the
economy almost obliges a 2010 general election and no new leader could expect a
honeymoon to last two years.

Which is why June 15, 2009, is the pivotal date in the political calendar. In
2004 the local elections were not held in May but in June to coincide with the
battle for the European Parliament. The objective was to increase turnout,
particularly for the Euro elections, which had fallen to a humiliating low of 24
per cent five years earlier. It worked, and although it has not been officially
announced it is assumed widely in Whitehall that the elections will be combined
again to occur on Thursday, June 11, 2009.

This has the whiff of an unavoidable disaster for the Labour Party for two
reasons.

The first is that this lot of local elections involves, predominantly, English
counties. These seats were last fought in 2005, on the day of the general
election, and before then 2001, on the day of the general election, and 1997, on
the day of the general election.

In all of these contests, turnout in these counties was far higher than normal
for local politics (64 per cent in 2005) and Labour benefited from the general
election effect (in 2005, the proportion of the local vote was Labour 34 per
cent, Tory 31 per cent and Lib Dem 27 per cent). So even if the Government is
less unpopular 12 months hence than it is today, much lower turnout in far less
favourable conditions means that Labour's sizeable contingent of county
councillors are on the electoral equivalent of death row. They will be
slaughtered. Their number could easily fall from about 575 to half that tally.
The scale of the carnage will become obvious by the middle of the afternoon of
June 12.

The second reason involves the European Parliament. Although the ballot boxes
will close on June 11, the EU mandates that counting cannot start until the
following Sunday night because most EU states vote on Sundays. In 2004 the
Conservatives underperformed badly in Europe because UKIP won more than 16 per
cent of the vote, drawing support mainly from the right of the spectrum.

Since then, however, UKIP has fallen foul to factionalism and there will not be
a massive EU controversy such as the debate about British membership of the euro
or the proposed former constitution to boost it's cause. It is a sure bet that
the UKIP share of the vote will fall dramatically and the Conservative edge over
Labour will increase sharply. There will be other effects, too - such as that of
Nick Griffin, of the BNP, becoming an MEP (courtesy of the proportional
representation system). All of this will be clear on June 15, 2009.

If there is ever to be an occasion when the Labour Party loses its head and
turns upon the Prime Minister, then this will be the trigger for it. It is the
sole scenario that I can foresee - bar prime ministerial ill-health - in which
Labour enters the next general election under the command of a David Miliband,
an Alan Johnson, a James Purnell, anybody except Mr Brown.

The Prime Minister can, nevertheless, clutch at another unusual historical
example as consolation.

June 15 next year will be the 150th anniversary of the so-called Pig War, when
Britain and America almost came to blows after the shooting of a large black
boar found eating in a garden of an island, that both the the US and the British
thought was theirs. It seemed as if it might cause a war but common sense
prevailed and the animal was the one casualty of the conflict. Mr Brown has to
hope that his June 15 passes off as peacefully.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 35 DOCUMENTS


                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                              May 18, 2008 Sunday

Even Mervyn my hero can't save us from Brussels

BYLINE: WILLIAM REES-MOGG

SECTION: MS2; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1026 words


There are two central bankers I admire; both have the character a central banker
needs, which combines integrity, courage and intelligence. My great hero is Paul
Volcker, the chairman of the Federal Reserve Board of the United States from
1979 to 1987; he saved the dollar and the global economy from the threat of
hyperinflation.

My current hero is the present Governor of the Bank of England, Mervyn King;
neither suffers from the two most damaging weaknesses of central bankers:
politicisation and a reluctance to prick inflationary bubbles.

Last week they both gave warnings that the threat of inflation has returned.

King blamed the rise in inflation on surging energy and food prices, and said
the consequences would be 'a squeeze on real take-home pay, which will slow
consumer spending and output growth, perhaps sharply'.

Volcker was addressing the Joint Economic Committee of Congress. He warned that
the Federal Reserve would need to tackle the risk of inflation and weakness of
the dollar. He referred to 'stagflation' and saw a 'resemblance' between current
conditions and those of the early Seventies when energy and food prices rose,
and economic growth declined.

I, too, lived through that period of rising prices and unemployment. I think
most of the survivors of that difficult time would also see the resemblance.

At that time, the British Government was, for better or worse, still largely
sovereign in its own house. In economic terms, the Wilson, Heath and Callaghan
years were disastrous. In the early Seventies, Anthony Barber was an
inflationary Conservative Chancellor; later in the decade, Denis Healey was far
more effective in the post.

Unfortunately, he was defeated by union militancy. Recovery came only in the
Thatcher years of the Eighties. ost of the policies of the Seventies were
failures, particularly the attempts to control inflation with statutory prices
and incomes policies. The Thatcher administration withdrew from detailed State
management of the economy. Her policies involved deregulation, privatisation and
open markets.

These Thatcherite policies were less well maintained after Labour returned to
power in 1997. But the Thatcher-Major-Blair period of openmarket policies lasted
for most of the 28 years between 1979 and Blair's retirement in 2007, with a
nasty wobble in the early Nineties. Gordon Brown, as Chancellor, dominated
economic policy from 1997 to 2007, but he now faces new problems as Prime
Minister.

If King and Volcker have got their forecasts right - and I think they have -
Britain, with most of our trading partners, will move into a more difficult era.
Inflation will be higher, unemployment will be higher, interest rates will be
higher, energy and food prices will be higher, union militancy will be greater,
but house prices will be lower.

Last week I attended the committee stage of the Lisbon Treaty Bill in the House
of Lords. I heard the debate in the House, I read it in Hansard, I watched some
of it on television. It was, on the whole, a melancholy experience, rather like
life as a Roman senator in the early years of the 5th Century. The House of
Lords has become a group of civilised and sometimes distinguished people
watching as the last vestige of their power slips away. We shall not amend this
Bill - in effect, we cannot.

We shall not, I fear, insist on the Government honouring its pledge to hold a
referendum. We shall not stand up for threatened British interests; neither the
Government nor the House of Commons has done so. Without support from the
Liberal Democrat peers, we do not have the votes. We passed the Maastricht
Treaty without a referendum at a time when the hereditary peers still had a
majority; the 'reformed' House will pass Lisbon without a referendum.

Yet the Lisbon Treaty will leave the British Government surprisingly powerless;
the process of Europeanising our national sovereignty will be closer to
completion. Last Wednesday, the House of Lords reached the clauses in the Lisbon
Treaty that deal with energy policy. This is of crucial importance because the
rise in the oil price, to $120 a barrel, affects every motorist and almost every
householder.

Oil is the detonator of the new inflation.

Any country has to protect its own energy supplies. That requires international
co-operation, which already exists, and it also requires concern for the
national interest. We ought not to hand over energy policy to Europe because
that will leave British governments unable to protect the national interest.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch, a remarkably well informed UK Independence Party peer,
put the question in its most cogent form: 'What makes Her Majesty's Government
confident that the European Union will be any better at running a common energy
policy than it is at running our agriculture, fishing or financial services?'

Almost all food has a high cost in terms of oil. Britain transferred
agricultural policy to Europe 35 years ago.

The European Commission does not share British attitudes to agriculture.

The British are opposed to inflation of food prices; the EU Agricultural
Commissioner, Mariann Fischer Boel, recently stated: ' Yes, I'm really happy
that prices are going up.' A nd the Lisbon Treaty will increase the EU's power
over energy policy. That will work out badly for Britain.

Europe's policy on biofuels has helped to raise corn prices; it is a crude
blunder.

The successful free-market policies of the past 28 years have made Britain one
of the world's most successful economies. If Britain remained free to develop
policy on the basis of this success, we could probably deal with the new
inflation. When he was Chancellor, Brown resented the encroachments of the EU on
British economic policy.

Thatcher worried that Europe would undo her best work.

In the mid-20th Century, the British economy was nearly crippled by
nationalisation and State Socialism. It is surprising that Brussels regulation
should now be accepted so meekly. I do not come across many people who believe
that 'the gentleman in Brussels really does know best'.

The British oppose higher food prices... but the EU Commissioner says: 'Yes, I'm
really happy prices are going up'

LOAD-DATE: May 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 18, 2008

Nigel Farage MEP

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg.2

LENGTH: 77 words


Our report "Anti-Brussels MEP, Nigel Farage, pays son from EU funds", February
24, wrongly stated that Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence party (UKIP)
, had used taxpayers' money to employ his son as his assistant. The report
suggested, again wrongly, that as an opponent of the EU "gravy train" Mr Farage
was also a hypocrite. We accept that there was no foundation for these
statements and apologise to Mr Farage for any distress or embarrassment caused.

LOAD-DATE: May 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: st


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 16, 2008 Friday 6:06 PM GMT

Guardianistas upset by My Telegraph?

BYLINE: By Shane Richmond

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 757 words


The Guardian has been taking an interest in My Telegraph, our reader blogging
site, evenphoning our readers to ask them about it. They asked us some
questions, raising concerns about "bad" and "unsavoury" material on the site.

I've posted the questions and our answers to them below. To me, the tone they
strike is politically correct and out of touch with the internet age.The
internet encourages free speech, has lower barriers to entry and places greater
onus onindividuals to decide for themselves what is acceptable.Is it the case
that Comment Is Free only within Guardian-approved limitations?

But if there is "unsavoury" content here then it is in the minority. I hope
their article will mention Wise Ralph and Chinagirl's escape from the China
earthquake, or My Telegraph's creative writing contest, or the photography
contest or about Self Builder's housebuilding blog, which started today? Will
they acknowledge the strong connections and supportive relationships formed
among bloggers?

We'll see. I await their article with interest. In the meantime, here's what the
Guardian asked us and here's what we told them:

Q. We think we've identified a couple of instances where active members of the
BNP are using MyTelegraph to promote the party. The question is, how do you
respond to this kind of content? Is there anything you can do to police it or
deter it?

A. We've been very clear from day one that My Telegraph is a platform for our
readers to express their own views. That said, we are a responsible publisher
and have a team in place to respond to reader complaints about any
user-generated content anywhere on our site. All material on My Telegraph has a
'report this' link. Readers can report content that concerns them and
appropriate action will be taken.

Q. For example, we've found instances of BNP campaign literature being published
on the site. What is your policy towards this? Will it be any different after
the relaunch?

A. There is also content from Conservative councillors and party members as well
as from Labour activists, Ukip supporters and independents. We don't endorse
content posted by BNP supporters but we accept that they are a legal political
party and they have the same right to free speech as anyone else. However,
readers can report content that concerns them and we will examine it and take
action based on our assessment.

Q. Other unsavory material comes from members of the anti-feminist "men's
movement", one blogger describes prostitution, for example, as being the fault
of women. Again, although this is not breaking the law, how does a respectable
newspaper deal with this kind of content?

A. Part of our definition of a "respectable newspaper" is one that doesn't try
to tell its readers what to think. Our readers are entitled to their opinions
and, within the scope of the law, they're entitled to publish them on My
Telegraph. We believe our readers are intelligent and discerning enough to avoid
the content they dislike and report that which offends. That doesn't mean we
endorse their opinions nor even promote them. All users sign up to terms and
conditions which include their consent for us to remove content deemed
offensive.

Q. Also, some users use icons to protect their personas, but in some cases use
provocative symbols (Enoch Powell, pitbulls et al), what is the Telegraphs view
of this? Should it be discouraged and if so, how so?

A. People are entitled to use whatever image they like as their avatar so long
as it is not obscene or illegal.

Q. Finally, can you also point us towards your best content? What's the best
story broken by a MyTelegraph blogger? How many bloggers do you have and how
many posts do you have to deal with?

A. There are more than 20,000 users registered on the system and they produce
hundreds of blog posts and thousands of comments every day. The aim of My
Telegraph is not to generate stories but newsworthy content has featured on the
site, from Phil Stod's blogs last summer about the deaths of his daughters to
Wise Ralph's blog earlier this week about his escape from the China earthquake.

When you have an open platform, whether it's My Telegraph, Comment Is Free, or
the internet itself, then you have to accept that a multiplicity of views will
be expressed on it and that some of those views will be unpalatable to some
people.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             May 14, 2008 Wednesday

Crewe and Nantwich byelection: Candidates

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 45 words


* Tamsin Dunwoody: Labour

* Elizabeth Shenton: Liberal Democrats

* Edward Timpson: Conservatives

* Robert Smith: Green

* Mark Walklate: Independent

* David Roberts: English Democrats

* Mike Nattrass: Ukip

* Gemma Garrett: Beauties for Britain

* Nick Delves: Monster Raving Loony

LOAD-DATE: May 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 35 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 12, 2008 Monday

To save the Post Office, we must go to the polls - or Australia

SECTION: FEATURES; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 150 words


SIR - The emasculation of Royal Mail undoubtedly has its main origin in EU
directives, as Jeff Randall argues (Comment, May 9). The resulting huge loss of
profit, together with EU antagonism to state subsidy, are responsible for the
imminent closure of 2,500 post offices. On the page opposite was a letter from a
resident of Spelsbury (pop. 189) wanting to have a vote to "break away from West
Oxfordshire'' to preserve its post office.

I can suggest a more practical method. In the south-west, the UK Independence
Party is rolling out a scheme to help communities legally demand that their
local council run an official parish poll with the question: "Do you accept
closure or demand that the Government continue to subsidise this vital service,
ignoring the EU if necessary?'' Such polls will soon be held in Devon, Dorset
and Cornwall and no doubt the idea will spread.

Sir George Earle

Crediton, Devon

LOAD-DATE: May 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        May 12, 2008 Monday 8:02 PM GMT

Brussels sleaze? So what!

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 491 words


I ask again: why is it a resigning matter when an MP uses his allowances
improperly, but no big deal when an MEP does the same thing?

MEPs are drawn into an intrinsically corrupting system

The News of the World has exposed some shabby behaviour in the European
Parliament, above all from the ex-UKIP MEP, Tom Wise. Regular readers will know
that I am no fan of Tom Wise  or, as I have come to think of him, Tom Fool. And,
to its credit, UKIP had already withdrawn the whip from the venal ex-copper.

But UKIP's prompt action doesn't explain the lack of interest in the story. The
Derek Conway affair brought the media shoaling like piranhas around every detail
of MPs' expenses for weeks afterwards. Yet, in this case, the NoW relegated the
story to page 12, and the RestoW ignored it altogether.

According to a lobby correspondent quoted by Open Europe "MEPs being corrupt
isn't really a story". True. But stop and ask yourself why this should be. Is it
because the European Parliament attracts greedy and immoral candidates? Or isn't
it more likely that something happens when they get there to make them behave as
they do?

The truth is that MEPs are drawn into an intrinsically corrupting system: a
system that tends, over time, to turn good people into crooks. From the moment
you arrive, you are encouraged in a particular habit of thinking. You feel
insulated from  even contemptuous of  public opinion. Witness, for example, the
statement by another British MEP when asked by the NoW why he was paying a good
deal of money to family members: "It's very complicated and I don't suppose any
of your readers would understand it."

Oddly, the worst shysters tend to be the Euro-federalists. For a long time, this
puzzled me. After all, you'd have thought that those who wanted the EU to
succeed would be the keenest on cleaning it up. Conversely, it suits us sceptics
for the system to be sleazy: it vindicates our critique. Yet, over the years, it
has tended to be the tiny number of anti-federalist MEPs  above all from Britain
and Scandinava  who have pushed hardest to reform of the allowances regime, and
the EPP/Socialist duopoly that has blocked us.

I think I now understand why. Federalists have to train themselves to disdain
their electorates: that is how they justify disregarding the "No" votes thrown
up by virtually every referendum. Having convinced themselves that their
opponents are ignorant xenophobes, they find it easy to dismiss all criticism
even on the narrow grounds of financial irregularities  as beneath contempt.

That is why it is so depressing when a Euro-sceptic behaves the same way. We
need to hold ourselves to a higher standard, we souverainistes. It's true that
we tend to get clobbered for the slightest error, while federalists get away
with gargantuan malpractice. But that is no excuse. If we lower ourselves to the
other side's level, we are lost.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 11, 2008

Tory 'toffs' stir mutiny in Crewe

BYLINE: Ed Caesar and Jonathan Oliver

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2271 words


The seat of Crewe and Nantwich has been Labour for decades - but the Tories are
set to seize it in a by-election. Ed Caesar and Jonathan Oliver report on a
deadly threat to Gordon Brown.

In the centre of Nantwich, beside the handsome 14th-century church, encircled by
a cluster of Ye Olde Shoppes, there are benches celebrating notable episodes in
the town's history. One marks a Domesday Book entry (1086), another a great fire
(1583) and another the battle of Nantwich in 1644, in which the royalist siege
of the town was lifted by the "Roundhead" army.

In the Crewe and Nantwich by-election on May 22, the roundheads of Labour may
not be so lucky. The Tories are careful not to be cavalier, but quietly they are
hopeful of victory. If they win, it would prompt a new wave of plotting against
Gordon Brown's leadership.

On the streets the reasons for Tory optimism are all too clear. "Ten pence tax,
fuel prices, food prices, Gordon Brown's not strong enough," said Margaret, 45,
a lifelong Labour voter.

"I'm part-time. I'm a couple of grand worse off a year with the 10p tax thing
and with the cost of living. I will not be voting Labour."

On paper the constituency looks like a Tory long-shot - the 165th most winnable
seat on its list of targets. Gwyneth Dunwoody, the Labour MP, held Crewe and
Nantwich from its creation as a constituency in 1983 until her death last month.

Crewe, as opposed to its better off and largely Conservative neighbour Nantwich,
accounts for about half the votes. It is built around the railway. While there
is a tradition of highly skilled workers in engineering industries, it has long
been Labour territory. If the Conservatives can win here, Brown is in serious
trouble.

The Tories are bullish after their landslide victory in the May 1 local
elections and a national poll last week that put Labour on a record low of 23%
and the Conservatives on 49%. They consider Dunwoody's 24-year reign in the
constituency to be, in large measure, a "personal vote".

Dunwoody championed local causes. She was, said one constituent, "like a dog
with a bone". The taxi drivers loved her because "it was only a £ 3 ride from
the station to her office but she always gave a fiver".

Labour has drafted in Dunwoody's daughter Tamsin as its candidate in the hope of
drawing on her mother's popularity. To defeat her the Conservatives require an
8% swing. It seems well possible.

In the local elections the Tories turned over Labour strongholds in Crewe
itself. Although there have been no specific local polls ahead of the by
election, one estimate based on national and regional trends predicts a 10%
swing to the Tories. If they can storm the Labour citadel again on May 22, it
will be a milestone.

THE Tories have not captured a by-election seat from Labour for 30 years. The
last time they did so, Margaret Thatcher was the party leader - and the next
year she swept to power, ushering in 18 years of Conservative government. Could
Crewe be another turning point?

Tory fortunes lie, in every sense, with Edward Timpson, a Cheshire barrister and
scion of the multi-millionaire Timpson shoe-mending family, who looks like a
youthful Tom Hanks and just as inoffensive. Labour has already tried to paint
Timpson as a privileged, public-schooled toff, even sending out two activists in
top-hat-and-tails to sabotage a recent walkabout with David Cameron. Timpson
responded by saying that his rich parents had fostered dozens of disadvantaged
children and that his childhood was spent seeing life from every angle.

On the doorsteps of Nantwich no one cares about Timpson's schooling (Uppingham,
then Durham University). Indeed, in the Barony Weaver district - an area largely
populated by chatty pensioners - his genteel manner works in his favour.

"And what are the issues that you care about?" he asked one old dear. "Well,
everything is getting more expensive," she said. "Mmmm, 10p tax?" he purred,
with a tilt of the head and a scrunch of the nose.

"Well, everything is much more expensive." She said she would "definitely think
about" voting Conservative. Timpson put a tick in the box.

Keith Wilson, 52, had just come home from work at Bombardier, the rolling stock
company which is a large employer in Crewe. His main concern was that his gas
and electricity bills are going up. Everyone at work is "very worried".

"Well, if you want to send a message to Gordon Brown," said Timpson, "then the
best way to do it is by voting Conservative on May 22." Another tick went in the
box.

After two hours of canvassing, a picture emerged. People in Nantwich like
Timpson. More importantly, they are worried about higher taxes and the cost of
living. They are also concerned, to a lesser extent, about crime and anti-
social behaviour.

Most of all, however, they just loathe Brown. As Michael Thorley, a 59-year old
antiques dealer, said: "Big clunking fist? I don't think so."

That is Nantwich. Crewe is a different story. Here, not only are there worries
about jobs, there are also plans to move Crewe station to another site out of
town and the city-centre regeneration has stalled. Most tellingly, however, the
pandemic dislike for the prime minister has infected voters here, too.

"The only thing that doesn't go up is my pension," said Esther Grant, 72. "I
blame Mr Brown. I blame the government. I blame the whole bloody lot of them."

THE Liberal Democrats hope to capitalise on this groundswell of disaffection.
Their candidate is a bottle blonde trade unionist called Elizabeth Shenton who
could never be called a dog with a bone. She is a cat person (although she had
to give up fostering cats "when she hit big-time politics").

Her enervated style on the doorstep is more Mrs Merton than Mrs Thatcher. Even
when she is worked up about an issue, one has to bend to hear her modulate from
pianissimo to piano.

"I heard David Cameron saying he was going to make this by- election a
referendum on the 10p tax," she said, gently increasing the volume. "Well that's
hypocritical. They didn't oppose it when the idea was first put forward. Only we
opposed it."

Whether the Lib Dems will pick up disaffected Labour supporters is far from
clear. Jules Hornbrook, who works at the Bentley factory and lives in one of the
many new cul-de-sacs on the northern edge of Crewe, is the town's only political
blogger. He believes that the Tories have a real chance because so many natural
Labour supporters are going to spoil their ballots rather than turn Lib Dem.

Some may register their protest by voting for Miss GB - Gemma Garrett, who is
standing on a "Beauties for Britain" platform.

"This by-election is in no way going to be fought on local issues," said
Hornbrook. "People used to vote for Gwyneth Dunwoody and not necessarily Labour.
With her gone, people feel that this is their chance to say something to Labour
in London."

At Dunwoody's funeral in London on Thursday, more than 100 Labour MPs came to
pay their respects. The mourners ranged from Ed Balls, the schools secretary who
has ambitions to succeed Brown as prime minister, to Dennis Skinner, the
left-wing "beast of Bolsover". The high attendance reflected the feeling that
Dunwoody had stood for a set of simple time-honoured virtues which have been
lost in an age when Labour has been accused of taxing the poor to bribe the
middle classes.

"Gwyneth always stood up for the little person," said one Labour backbencher.
"The decision to abolish the 10p income tax rate suggested Labour had forgotten
its commitment to help the vulnerable and the needy."

There was one noticeable absentee. The prime minister

was in Belfast meeting Irish political leaders and had sent Harriet Harman, the
party's deputy leader, as his representative. His non-attendance was seen by
some as yet another miscalculation. Cameron and Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader,
both made appearances.

"Gordon should have been there," said one mourner, echoing mutterings that are a
measure of continuing discontent in Labour's ranks, despite the government's
efforts at appeasement.

On Tuesday Frank Field and Greg Pope, the two former ministers who led the 10p
tax revolt, were invited to the Treasury for tea with Alistair Darling, the
chancellor. Field and Pope emerged reassured that low-paid people who lost out
from the tax change would be compensated. Pope told friends: "I think Alistair
gets it."

They expected details to emerge at Wednesday's prime minister's questions. But
when Clegg raised the issue, Brown stuck to his old script and concluded with a
sour attack on the "Liberal party", as he always calls the Lib Dems.

Backbench rebels began contemplating the nuclear option: voting against the
entire Finance Bill unless significant concessions are made. If that were to
happen and Brown lost, he would almost certainly have to resign.

isarray was evident elsewhere, too. Wendy Alexander, leader of the beleaguered
Labour party north of the border, launched a political Exocet by demanding a
referendum on Scottish independence. "Bring it on!" she said in a television
interview.

Brown seemed either unaware or unwilling to acknowledge Alexander's initiative.
Asked by Cameron whether he agreed with her plans to call a referendum, the
prime minister weakly responded: "That is not what she has said." After much
confusion, Alexander appeared to be backtracking yesterday.

But this weekend Stephen Byers, the former transport secretary from the ultra
Blairite wing of the party, has fired off another volley of barbs, attacking
Brown's entire taxation policy. Writing in The Sunday Times, Byers says: "In the
last year far too many decisions about tax have been taken in order to try and
secure a tactical advantage.

"This has led to some damaging mistakes being made. What has been lacking is a
strategic and principled view of how we should change our tax regime."

Other party members also felt moved to speak out with striking vehemence. Jon
Cruddas, who came third in the election for Labour's deputy leadership last
year, declared: "This government has lost the language of ethical politics:
relationships, values, even social justice. The danger is it hears only the echo
of its own jargon."

Peter Hyman, former speech writer to Tony Blair, suggested that the time had
come to sack the Brownite Darling as chancellor and replace him with the
Blairite David Miliband.

THE May 1 annihilation of Labour in the London and local elections has
effectively put Brown on probation. Nervous MPs registered concern at his
leadership but most thought that any talk of deposing him was premature.

If the party loses Crewe, however, Brown may find himself not on probation but
on death row.

Against this backdrop, what chance for Dunwoody to succeed her mother? A slim,
personable former deputy minister in the Welsh assembly (she lost her seat last
year to a Tory), she is eager to fight the by-election on local issues. A
fourth-generation Dunwoody Labour politician, she shares her mother's
enthusiasms, if not her pugnacious spirit.

Reaction to her last week was mixed as she canvassed with James Purnell, the
work and pensions secretary.

At a local Tesco in Crewe, the Labour candidate came across Valerie Hutton, a
65-year-old who greeted her with a broad smile. "I thought your mother was
marvellous," she beamed. The cameras clicked.

As the circus moved away, it turned out that Hutton was "not even Labour". She
said: "Her mum did an awful lot for round here; but we'd vote Conservative or
even UKIP this time around. We feel strongly about the EU. Why can't we have a
referendum?"

THE measure of Labour's woes is summed by an extraordinary role reversal for
Brown. He appears on Lib Dem election material like some dreadful warning, but
he is nowhere to be seen on Labour's flyers.

With his abysmal personal ratings, even Dunwoody is not keen for him to make an
appearance in Crewe. "If Gordon wanted to come and knock on some doors with me,
I'm not saying he shouldn't come," she said, without conviction. "He's said very
clearly he wants to listen to people."

Will she continue to play the class card against Timpson? "He comes from his
background and if you come into the public forum you take that with you," she
said. "That is absolutely part of what makes you a candidate or not. And
frankly, if you can't take the heat get out of the kitchen."

The Tories reckon it is Labour that will feel the heat. "We're starting to make
a move into the outer core of Labour support," said Eric Pickles, the shadow
local government spokesman who has masterminded the Tory campaign.

The battle of Nantwich, some historians argue, was the key to the civil war. Had
the royalists taken the town, they could have marched on to Scotland to join up
with General Montrose and from there they might have beaten Cromwell's army.

They did not and they could not. Can the Tories now besieging the town topple
its Labour defenders in 2008?

The foot soldiers of both campaigns suggest they can. Either way, it's going to
be bloody.

A tax plan to save Labour Stephen Byers, page 23

THEY LAST WON WHEN?

The last time the Tories won a by-election from Labour was in 1978, the year
that:

* Louise Brown, the fi rst ever test-tube baby, was born in Oldham.

* The average house price was £ 13,820.

* The video game Space Invaders, above, landed in Britain.

* Liverpool FC won the European Cup for the second year in a row, with Kevin
Keegan scoring the winning goal.

* The fi lm musical Grease was released in cinemas.

* Jeremy Thorpe, the former Liberal leader was committed to face trial for
conspiracy to murder.

* The Amoco Cadiz oil tanker foundered off Brittany, spewing its cargo into the
Channel.

* Birching was outlawed by the European Court.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 35 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                             May 10, 2008 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

LETTERS

SECTION: LETTERS; 25

LENGTH: 84 words


AT the council elections in my ward, the turnout was just 40%.

What happened to the other 60%? Don't they realise that councillors work
voluntarily for the benefit of the whole community?

Are people disillusioned with politics? Or do they only consider the bigger
parties, because the smaller ones do not get enough coverage?

All parties should get the same publicity. How else is the electorate to get the
information they need to make a reasoned choice?

JANET GRIFFITHS, Secretary, UKIP, North Wales Branch.

LOAD-DATE: May 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                  May 6, 2008

Radio veteran axed for 'vote Boris' plea

LENGTH: 471 words


TalkSport late night phone-in presenter James Whale has been sacked after
breaching broadcasting regulations by urging listeners to vote for Boris Johnson
in the London mayoral election.

The veteran presenter, who has been with the station since it launched as Talk
Radio in 1995, sparked a number of complaints to media regulator Ofcom after the
show on March 20.

TalkSport, which is owned by UTV, conducted an internal investigation and sacked
Whale before Ofcom's own inquiry was completed.

Max Rushden will take over Whale's late night phone-in show temporarily until a
full-time replacement is hired.

TalkSport said Whale was guilty of a "gross error of judgment" and described the
incident as "very unfortunate".

"TalkSport presenter James Whale's contract with the radio station has been
terminated after a breach of the Ofcom broadcasting code regarding due
impartiality," the station said in a statement. "It's very unfortunate. We have
investigated the matter and after serious consideration, the station reached the
decision that there was a clear breach of the rules and that we had no choice
but to terminate his contract. James Whale is guilty of a gross error of
judgment which we found to be totally unacceptable."Ofcom received a number of
complaints following Whale's broadcast on March 20. Talk Sport has acknowledge
the seriousness of the complaints received, does not excuse the content of the
broadcast and has told Ofcom that it has taken steps to prevent this happening
again."The matter is still under investigation by Ofcom so it would be
inappropriate to comment any further on the details of the complaints."

Whale was TalkSport's longest-serving presenter and also one of its best-known,
broadcasting in the 10pm to 1am slot from Sunday to Thursday.

He considered standing for mayor of London two years ago, when it was reported
that he would represent the UK Independence Party.

Whale began his career as a phone-in host at Metro Radio in Newcastle, and also
appeared late-night ITV show, The James Whale Radio Show.

In a statement on his official website, Whale said recent events had been
"somewhat unplanned, to say the least".

"As you may be aware, I have been off air for a couple of weeks now. Contrary to
rumour, this is not in any way due to ill health, and I'm feeling absolutely
fine! I can't say too much right now, but as soon as I can I will let you know
what is going on," he added.

TalkSport is overseen by Moz Dee, the former BBC Radio 5 Live managing editor
who succeeded Bill Ridley as programme director earlier this year.

· To contact the MediaGuardian newsdesk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or
phone 020 7239 9857. For all other inquiries please call the main Guardian
switchboard on 020 7278 2332.

· If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: May 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               24 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 5, 2008 Monday

National: Local elections: Byelection: Tories train their sights on Crewe

BYLINE: Helen Carter

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 480 words


When the Grand Junction Railway opened a station near Crewe Hall in 1837, the
population of the nearest Cheshire village was about 70. Today, the residents
are still dependent on the railways as a leading employer but the population of
Crewe and Nantwich has swelled to more than 111,000.

Since the second world war the town has been a safe Labour seat, and it was held
for 34 years by the Old Labour firebrand Gwyneth Dunwoody, who died last month,
prompting a byelection. So popular was Dunwoody, she had a road named in her
honour: Dunwoody Way.

In Crewe yesterday, where it was raining heavily, Tory optimism was running
high. Residents spoke of issues including the rising number of Polish
immigrants, the 10p tax fiasco, which will affect about 10,000 residents, and
increased fuel prices.

In the centre of the town, the Duke of Bridgewater pub has become a Polish pub
and restaurant, reflecting the increasing immigrant population.

The Conservatives are conducting their campaign from a railway building in the
shadow of Crewe Alexandra football ground. Yesterday's election slogan was "Keep
Brown Down". In last week's local elections, the Conservatives made impressive
gains over Labour in Crewe. The Conservatives won

12,078 votes (45.4%), Labour had 7,643 (28.7%) and the Liberal Democrats were
third with 5,108 (19.2%) on a 33% turnout. There was a 16% swing to the party in
Crewe North.

Unusually, a byelection date was announced before Dunwoody's funeral this
Thursday. The byelection will take place on May 22. Dunwoody had a majority of
just over 7,000.

The Conservatives are running a campaign based on issues affecting local people:
crime and antisocial behaviour, post office closures, the loss of the 10p tax
rate, and the problems at Leighton hospital, where maternity services were
criticised after two women in labour were turned away.

Bill Bellamy, an ecological consultant, said most people were concerned about
the scale of Polish migration to the town. "One of the major issues for many
people in this town is immigration and the amount of Polish migrant workers. It
is not a racial issue - it is more about the sheer quantity of people coming
here."

Edward Timpson, a barrister and the Conservative parliamentary candidate, was
out canvassing on Saturday with five MPs, including the shadow chancellor,
George Osborne.

"The closure of the post offices is a huge issue for people in Crewe, and we got
a petition signed by 3,000 residents and took it to Downing Street," Timpson
said. "The closures mean there will only be one post office serving the whole of
Nantwich. It is symptomatic of the general deterioration of local services."

Tamsin Dunwoody, Gwyneth Dunwoody's 49-year-old daughter, is the Labour
candidate. The Liberal Democrats' candidate is Elizabeth Shenton and Mike
Nattrass is standing for Ukip.

Conservative Edward Timpson and Labour's Tamsin Dunwoody

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                               May 5, 2008 Monday
                                 3 Star Edition

WHAT YOU MUST DO TO WIN US BACK, GORDON..;
PM LEADS THE LABOUR FIGHTBACK

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 544 words


FORMER Labour voters who deserted them at last week's elections explain what
Gordon Brown and the Government must do to win back their support.

JACKIE BESWICK, 43, teaching assistant from East London. VOTED: Tory

Labour do nothing for hard-working, married women. We pay high taxes, mortgages,
and raise kids without much help. And we need more affordable housing.

JAMES ROBERTS, 24, a train conductor from Roath in Cardiff. VOTED: Liberal
Democrat

Improve policing because crime rates are too high. Public transport is too
expensive and unreliable. And they need to get more NHS dentists. I can't find
one.

JANE LILLEY, 38, a teacher from Langley, Berks. VOTED: Independent candidate

Increase public sector pay to the rate of inflation. Reduce bureaucracy, stop
wasting money. Married childless couples like us get no benefits whatsoever.

TRACY SCOTT, 33, estate agent from South Shields. VOTED: Liberal Democrats

As a motorist, I feel I'm being robbed at the petrol pumps with far too much
tax. Tackle the work-shy and young mums who get pregnant and claim benefits.

DAVID ROBERTS, 25, a teacher from Cardiff Bay. DID NOT VOTE

Stabilise the economy and house prices, reduce petrol prices, bring the 10p tax
rate back. Considering he prides himself on economics, Gordon hasn't done well.

DAVE RYAN, 45, a postman from Newcastle. VOTED: UKIP

It was a big mistake to scrap the 10 per cent tax rate. I'm not personally
affected, but I know people who are and they are going to suffer.

SAM CODMAN, 18, a student from Birmingham. VOTED: Tory

The 10p tax rate change was a big decider. And petrol prices need to come down.
Being a student, it infuriates me that prices are constantly on the rise.

JENNY THOMSON, 21, a trainee teacher from Halesowen. VOTED: Tory

Crime is a big issue. I don't feel very safe. The main problem is the effect of
the 10p tax on low-paid workers with no children. People have lost trust in
Labour.

MARCO SCAROLA, 33, marketing manager from Thorpe Bay, Essex. VOTED: Independent
candidate

Make up for Iraq. Help nations in need, never back an illegal conflict again.
The party needs charisma, a positive image. Get back to their socialist roots.

ELAINE GOOD, 63, retired, from East London. VOTED: Tory

Give us the promised referendum on Europe. Limit immigrant numbers as it's
having a bad impact on our way of life. Start helping out working class
families.

ADAM MARLOW, 28, a financial services worker from Beckenham, Kent. DID NOT VOTE

The benefits system needs to be strictly controlled. A core value of Labour was
to look after people from cradle to grave, but too many people are abusing it.

NICOLE VOLAVKA, 29, a film producer from North London. VOTED: Liberal Democrats

I'm not sure what Brown believes in, he needs to project himself better. Take a
stronger stand on issues like world poverty and China's impact on Tibet and
Darfur.

MIKE MALONE, 52, a lecturer from Birmingham. VOTED: Tory

Why do students pay huge loans to be educated? Rethink green taxes and family
budgets too. If the PM actually did what he said, he could gain people's trust.

JOSEPH LIDDLE, 61, from Gateshead, retired. DID NOT VOTE

Put more money into the NHS and schools and make some real changes. Give
teachers the right to instil discipline into kids. Put more police on the
streets too.

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: JACKIE BESWICK; JAMES ROBERTS; JANE LILLEY; TRACY SCOTT; DAVID ROBERTS;
DAVE RYAN; SAM CODMAN; JENNY THOMSON; MARCO SCAROLA; ELAINE GOOD; ADAM MARLOW;
NICOLE VOLAVKA; MIKE MALONE; JOSEPH LIDDLE

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 5, 2008, Monday

Boris makes an early start with demands on action to cut crime

BYLINE: Fiona Hamilton London Correspondent

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 825 words


* Cull of key advisers linked to Livingstone

* Changes to be funded by fewer advertisements

Boris Johnson is expected to dismiss several senior executives at City Hall this
week as he began his time in office by announcing action on measures to curb
antisocial behaviour.

Twelve key advisers, who make representations to the mayor on policy areas such
as race, policing, housing and economic development, are believed to be first in
the firing line.

Mr Johnson will address staff tomorrow morning and the Tory team has not ruled
out further redundancies. A key platform of Mr Johnson's campaign was a promise
to streamline the Greater London Authority. Several of the advisers had worked
with Ken Livingstone for several years and were closely aligned to him.

A source told The Times: "It is inevitable that Boris is going to bring in
people that he knows and trusts, and who share his vision for London."

Another layer of executives, who oversee areas such as policy and performance,
are likely to remain as they are not politically appointed.

There was speculation yesterday that Steve Norris, the Tory mayoral candidate
defeated by Mr Livingstone in 2000 and 2004, would take on an advisory role.

New advisers must be vetted by the London Assembly but the mayor can ignore its
recommendations.

In his first speech as mayor on Saturday, Mr Johnson signalled that he would not
tolerate unsupportive officials. "If there are any dogs in the manger, then I
will have those dogs humanely euthanased," he said.

The shake-up is likely to take place early this week as Mr Johnson, who
officially took office overnight, stamps his authority on City Hall.

In a series of meetings with officials over the weekend, including Sir Ian
Blair, the Metropolitan Police Commissioner, Mr Johnson emphasised that the
delivery of his manifesto should be a priority. Work has already begun on key
pledges, including bud- geting to provide 400 police community support officers
on public transport and stripping antisocial youths of their right to free
travel. Funding will come from cutting advertising budgets.

Londoners may be banned from consuming alcohol on the Tube within weeks. Staff
at Transport for London have begun rewriting the rules of carriage and liaising
with British Transport Police so that the measure, which Mr Johnson hopes will
curb antisocial behaviour, can be implemented quickly. Mr Johnson said
yesterday: "I have instructed members of my team to crack on with implementing
our manifesto pledges as soon as we are physically able to do so.

"I will work night and day to deliver that change in London. A tireless approach
is what Londoners demand and I will step up that challenge."

During a visit to a cultural event in Trafalgar Square yesterday, where he was
mobbed by members of the public seeking autographs and photographs, Mr Johnson
said that he had demanded tough action on crime during his meeting with Sir Ian.
"I made it very clear that I want to see a dramatic reduction in crime,
beginning with driving out so-called minor crime, particularly in the areas for
which the mayor has responsibility, and above all on public transport," he said.

Speaking after a stabbing in which a 15-year-old boy was killed, Mr Johnson
said: "I am not pretending we can transform this overnight, but it is the job of
the mayor to give a lead and I won't rest till we have started to make a
difference."

While Mr Johnson has no power over Sir Ian's appointment he has told Tory
colleagues that he will demand that Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, fires the
commissioner if progress is not made in cutting crime.

Another priority in his first week will be an inquiry into reducing expenditure
at City Hall. Mr Johnson plans big cuts, including a 20 per cent reduction in
the mayor's 70-strong media and marketing team.

He will also meet Michael Bloomberg, the Mayor of New York.

Leading article, page 16 William Rees-Mogg, page 17 Tim Hames, page 19

*Bendy-bus passengers react to the result timesonline.co.uk/politics

COMPLETE RESULTS FOR THE CAPITAL

The Mayor Boris Johnson (C) 1st pref: 1,043,761 (42.48%) 2nd pref: 257,792
(10.49%)

Ken Livingstone (Lab), below 1st pref: 893,877 (36.38%) 2nd pref: 303,198
(12.34%)

Brian Paddick (Lib Dem) 1st pref: 236,685 (9.63%) 2nd pref: 641,412 (26.11%)

Sian Berry (Green) 1st pref: 77,374 (3.15%) 2nd pref: 331,727 (13.50%)

Richard Barnbrook (BNP) 1st pref: 69,710 (2.84%) 2nd pref: 128,609 (5.23%)

Alan Craig (Christian People) 1st pref: 39,249 (1.60%) 2nd pref: 80,140 (3.26%)

Gerard Batten (UKIP) 1st pref: 22,422 (0.91%) 2nd pref: 113,651 (4.63%)

Lindsey German (Left List) 1st pref: 16,796 (0.68%) 2nd pref: 35,057 (1.43%)

Matt O'Connor (English Democrat) 1st pref: 10,695 (0.44%) 2nd pref: 73,538
(2.99%)

Winston McKenzie (Ind) 1st pref: 5,389 (0.22%) 2nd pref: 38,954 (1.59%)

The Assembly Conservative Party 11 seats, +2

Labour Party 8 seats, +1

Liberal Democrats 3 seats, -2

Green Party 2 seats, no change

British National Party 1 seat, +1

LOAD-DATE: May 5, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 4, 2008

Vote puts Tories on course for 126-seat majority

BYLINE: Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 798 words


For once the hyperbole is justified. Labour and Gordon Brown suffered a
humiliation at the hands of electors across England and Wales last week, polling
the lowest share of the vote ever recorded for either of the two major parties
at a local election. And for the first time since Black Wednesday in 1992 the
Tories were the clear and direct beneficiaries.

We have examined more than 3.5m votes in 1,350 local wards in order to calculate
how the parties would have fared if these elections had taken place in every
part of the country. This comprehensive analysis has the Tories on 43% (a
three-point increase since last year) with Labour on 24% (down two points). The
Lib Dems scored 23%, down a single percentage point from last year.

Repeated at a general election, such a result would put the Tories in power with
a majority of 126 seats. The number of Labour MPs in the House of Commons would
slump from 356 at the last election to just 177. The Liberal Democrats would be
left with 55 seats.

All those Labour MPs sitting on majorities of less than 22% will now be worrying
about the future of their parliamentary careers. Such a swing would see the back
of cabinet members Jacqui Smith (whose own Redditch council went Tory for the
first time since 1979), Ruth Kelly in Bolton West, John Hutton in Barrow and
Furness, and John Denham in Southampton Itchen. Many less prominent MPs first
elected in 1997 would also lose out.

It seems as if suburban voters who have supported new Labour for more than a
decade, or at least sat on their hands or voted for other parties at previous
times of disillusionment, are now prepared to turn to the Tories again. There
were signs of this in the south in last year's local elections, but on Thursday
the mood spread further afield to places such as Bury, North Tyneside, Nuneaton
and Bedworth, and the Vale of Glamorgan where the Tories have been out of power
for a generation or longer.

While it is true that there are still no Tory councillors in some major northern
urban authorities such as Liverpool, Newcastle upon Tyne and Sheffield, it is a
myth that a general election victory requires the party to break through there.
It is the progress they made in the commuter estates and large towns surrounding
such areas which counts because that is where the crucial parliamentary marginal
constituencies are located.

The figures strikingly spell out the scale of Labour's losses at Gordon Brown's
first electoral test. Taking into account the previous results in councils where
there has been a reorganisation or boundary change, Labour lost more than one in
four of the nearly 1,500 seats it was defending. The Tories emerged some 300
seats to the good, with double-figure gains for the Liberal Democrats, Plaid
Cymru in Wales and a mixture of smaller parties.

In London, the overwhelming concentration on the Johnson-Livingstone battle
squeezed out all the other candidates and had a knock-on effect in the assembly
contests. There, Johnson's election as mayor diverted attention from a somewhat
less good performance by the Tories. If Johnson rode to victory on David
Cameron's coat-tails, so Livingstone seems to have helped to peg back the
haemorrhaging of Labour votes in the capital.

The Tories picked up about 37% of constituency votes in the city, more than six
points up on 2004, but Labour also did better than four years ago.
Significantly, the Tories have never won a general election without polling more
than 40% in London.

The Lib Dem share was down by about a quarter compared with 2004, and the minor
parties, too, fell back. The BNP would have won an assembly seat four years ago
but for falling below the 5% threshold; this time they cleared that hurdle as
the UKIP vote shrank.

The significance of last week's election result is threefold. First, it confirms
recent opinion polls that the Conservatives are now able to attract the support
of more than 40% of voters. Second, it adds to the perception of a government
that is losing touch with the very electors who gave it such impressive
majorities in 1997, 2001 and 2005. Third, it will make Labour strategists ponder
whether it is policies or personalities (or both) that need to be changed before
the next general election.

The result of that election is still far from a foregone conclusion, however.
History tells us that the government will recover some support by 2010, and the
electoral system remains weighted against the Tories. Cameron must win by at
least 10 clear points to get an overall majority at Westminster.

Last week gives some credence to the argument that the government is on its way
out; it would be a far bolder prediction that the Tories are poised to step
straight into Labour's shoes.

The authors are directors of the Elections Centre, University of Plymouth

LOAD-DATE: May 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  May 4, 2008

Vote puts Tories on course for 126-seat majority

BYLINE:  Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg.16

LENGTH: 807 words


For once the hyperbole is justified. Labour and Gordon Brown suffered a
humiliation at the hands of electors across England and Wales last week, polling
the lowest share of the vote ever recorded for either of the two major parties
at a local election. And for the first time since Black Wednesday in 1992 the
Tories were the clear and direct beneficiaries.

We have examined more than 3.5m votes in 1,350 local wards in order to calculate
how the parties would have fared if these elections had taken place in every
part of the country. This comprehensive analysis has the Tories on 43% (a
three-point increase since last year) with Labour on 24% (down two points). The
Lib Dems scored 23%, down a single percentage point from last year.

Repeated at a general election, such a result would put the Tories in power with
a majority of 126 seats. The number of Labour MPs in the House of Commons would
slump from 356 at the last election to just 177. The Liberal Democrats would be
left with 55 seats.

All those Labour MPs sitting on majorities of less than 22% will now be worrying
about the future of their parliamentary careers. Such a swing would see the back
of cabinet members Jacqui Smith (whose own Redditch council went Tory for the
first time since 1979), Ruth Kelly in Bolton West, John Hutton in Barrow and
Furness, and John Denham in Southampton Itchen. Many less prominent MPs first
elected in 1997 would also lose out.

It seems as if suburban voters who have supported new Labour for more than a
decade, or at least sat on their hands or voted for other parties at previous
times of disillusionment, are now prepared to turn to the Tories again. There
were signs of this in the south in last year's local elections, but on Thursday
the mood spread further afield to places such as Bury, North Tyneside, Nuneaton
and Bedworth, and the Vale of Glamorgan where the Tories have been out of power
for a generation or longer.

While it is true that there are still no Tory councillors in some major northern
urban authorities such as Liverpool, Newcastle upon Tyne and Sheffield, it is a
myth that a general election victory requires the party to break through there.
It is the progress they made in the commuter estates and large towns surrounding
such areas which counts because that is where the crucial parliamentary marginal
constituencies are located.

The figures strikingly spell out the scale of Labour's losses at Gordon Brown's
first electoral test. Taking into account the previous results in councils where
there has been a reorganisation or boundary change, Labour lost more than one in
four of the nearly 1,500 seats it was defending. The Tories emerged some 300
seats to the good, with double-figure gains for the Liberal Democrats, Plaid
Cymru in Wales and a mixture of smaller parties.

In London, the overwhelming concentration on the Johnson-Livingstone battle
squeezed out all the other candidates and had a knock-on effect in the assembly
contests. There, Johnson's election as mayor diverted attention from a somewhat
less good performance by the Tories. If Johnson rode to victory on David
Cameron's coat-tails, so Livingstone seems to have helped to peg back the
haemorrhaging of Labour votes in the capital.

The Tories picked up about 37% of constituency votes in the city, more than six
points up on 2004, but Labour also did better than four years ago.
Significantly, the Tories have never won a general election without polling more
than 40% in London.

The Lib Dem share was down by about a quarter compared with 2004, and the minor
parties, too, fell back. The BNP would have won an assembly seat four years ago
but for falling below the 5% threshold; this time they cleared that hurdle as
the UKIP vote shrank.

The significance of last week's election result is threefold. First, it confirms
recent opinion polls that the Conservatives are now able to attract the support
of more than 40% of voters. Second, it adds to the perception of a government
that is losing touch with the very electors who gave it such impressive
majorities in 1997, 2001 and 2005. Third, it will make Labour strategists ponder
whether it is policies or personalities (or both) that need to be changed before
the next general election.

The result of that election is still far from a foregone conclusion, however.
History tells us that the government will recover some support by 2010, and the
electoral system remains weighted against the Tories. Cameron must win by at
least 10 clear points to get an overall majority at Westminster.

Last week gives some credence to the argument that the government is on its way
out; it would be a far bolder prediction that the Tories are poised to step
straight into Labour's shoes.

The authors are directors of the Elections Centre, University of Plymouth

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: st


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 35 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              May 3, 2008 Saturday

Analysis Thumbs up for now . . . but is it a false dawn?

BYLINE: Robert Winnett Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 736 words


DAVID CAMERON heralded yesterday's results as a "very big moment'' for the
Conservatives. However, the crucial question now is whether that success really
signifies a seismic shift in the political landscape, or simply another Tory
false dawn.

The results, if repeated at a general election, would be sufficient to sweep Mr
Cameron into Downing Street with a working majority.

Even senior Conservative strategists were taken aback at the size of the Tory
win, with one describing the anti-Labour vote as "like a virus'' that spread
across the country. However, they realise that the challenge now facing the
party is maintaining that momentum until the next general election.

Mr Cameron had pencilled autumn 2009 in for a national poll but the Tories now
believe Gordon Brown could hold on to the bitter end in spring 2010. Do
yesterday's results represent a "turning point'' towards Cameron's
Conservatives? Or were they simply the manifestation of a protest vote from an
electorate suffering in the economic turmoil?

It was the Conservative resurgence under Mr Cameron that triggered the Brown
decline. However, the lacklustre response of the Prime Minister and his team has
turned it into a downward spiral.

That resurgence was kick-started last September by George Osborne, the shadow
chancellor.

At the time, Mr Brown's lead in the polls was seemingly unassailable and the
talk was of a snap election.

Then Mr Osborne announced a simple tax package to charge wealthy foreigners more
and effectively scrap inheritance tax for middle-class Britons and stamp duty
for first-time buyers.

The move seemed to strike a chord with voters tired of too much taxation and
panicked Mr Brown into cancelling the election. He then ordered the Chancellor,
Alistair Darling, to hurriedly copy the plans and the Government has been
unravelling ever since.

Despite all the talk of long-term challenges, a series of short-term political
gimmicks - including scrapping the 10p rate of income tax and increasing the
period for holding terrorist suspects to 42 days - have fallen apart as Mr
Brown's administration has lurched from crisis to crisis.

The final nail in the coffin came with the Budget, which heralded a big tax rise
on family cars shortly before poorly-paid workers found out they would pay more
tax this year.

However, the Conservatives have not been entirely idle bystanders during the
Brown implosion.

They began the year with bold plans to reform the welfare system and Mr Cameron
insisted that measures aimed at the family announced in March were popular among
women in middle England. The public have certainly warmed to Mr Cameron even if
they have not embraced him fully.

The Tory election machine has also become far more effective. This has been most
obvious in London, where the win for Boris Johnson is attributed to successfully
bringing out suburban voters who previously stayed at home. But the
Conservatives, backed by large amounts of money, have also rebuilt their
grass-roots support throughout the country.

They have legions of people knocking on doors. And not all of them are the
floppy-haired, rather odd breed of Conservative of the past.

Today, they have more than 240 extra councillors throughout the country and
Conservative student societies are booming. All will be out under the gaze of
Lord Ashcroft, the head of marginal campaigning, for months before the general
election.

Labour ministers hit the airwaves yesterday insisting that Mr Cameron's policies
would not stand up to the intense scrutiny that any prime minister-in-waiting
could now expect. However, the Tories believe that the Labour meltdown has
allowed them breathing space to go away and draw up their key policies, which
will be strategically unveiled in the coming months.

Mr Cameron has also had his own crises to deal with - an MP using taxpayers'
money to pay his own children and another defecting to UKIP - but they have
barely registered in the polls.

However, it has yet to be seen whether the policies will form a coherent
package. Mr Cameron does have a problem - tax. People want help to deal with the
economic crisis and will demand tax cuts.

Mr Cameron has tied himself to Labour's tax plans. Unless he can be more
explicit - possibly by promising no more tax rises, as some strategists suggest
- he may struggle to repeat the success on this week's scale in the general
election, especially if Mr Brown unveils his own tax cuts.

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 3, 2008 Saturday

National: Full election results

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 45

LENGTH: 2303 words


Metro

Barnsley

* Lab

LD lose 1/C gain 1/Lab lose 1/Ind gain 1

New council Lab 32/Ind 24/C 6/LD 1

Birmingham

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/Respect gain 1/Lab lose 6/C gain 6

New council C 49/Lab 36/LD 32/Respect 3

Bolton

* No overall control

LD lose 2/Lab gain 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 27/C 23/LD 9/Ind 1

Bradford

* No overall control

Lab lose 3/C gain 3

New council Lab 36/C 35/LD 14/Green 3/BNP 2

Bury

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD gain 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 3

New council C 26/Lab 16/LD 9

Calderdale

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/BNP gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 20/LD 17/Lab 9/Ind 4/BNP 1

Coventry

* Conservative lose to NOC

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council C 27/Lab 24/Soc 2/LD 1

Doncaster

* No overall control

C gain 1/Ind gain 1/Lab lose 2

New council Lab 27/Ind 15/LD 12/C 9

Dudley

* Conservative

LD lose 3/UKIP gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 4

New council C 43/Lab 26/LD 2/UKIP 1

Gateshead

* Lab

LD gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council Lab 41/LD 24/Lib 1

Kirklees

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/BNP lose 1/Lab lose 1/LD gain 1/C gain 2

New council C 22/Lab 21/LD 19/Green 4/BNP 2/Ind 1

Knowsley

* Lab

LD gain 3/Lab lose 3

New council Lab 47/LD 16

Leeds

* No overall control

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Lab 43/LD 24/C 22/Ind 6/Green 3/BNP 1

Liverpool

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Green gain 1/Lib lose 1/LD lose 3/Lab gain 3

New council LD 45/Lab 39/Lib 3/Green 2/Ind 1

Manchester

* Lab

Green lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Lab 61/LD 34/C 1

Newcastle-upon-Tyne

* Liberal Democrat

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 2/LD gain 3

New council LD 49/Lab 29

Oldham

* No overall control

C gain 4/Lab lose 8/LD gain 4

New council LD 30/Lab 22/C 7/Ind 1

Rochdale

* Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 33/Lab 19/C 8

Rotherham

* Lab

Ind lose 1/BNP gain 2/C gain 3/Lab lose 4

New council Lab 50/C 10/BNP 2/Ind 1

Salford

* Lab

Ind gain 1/LD gain 2/C gain 3/Lab lose 6

New council Lab 36/C 13/LD 10/Ind 1

Sandwell

* Lab

C gain 3/Lab lose 3

New council Lab 49/C 14/LD 5/Ind 2/BNP 2

Sefton

* No overall control

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 27/Lab 21/C 18

Sheffield

* Liberal Democrat gain from NOC

C lose 1/Ind lose 1/Green gain 1/Lab lose 5/LD gain 6

New council LD 45/Lab 36/Green 3

Solihull

* Conservative gain from NOC

Green gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 1

New council C 26/LD 18/Lab 5/BNP 1/Green 1

St Helens

* No overall control

LD lose 2/Lab gain 2

New council Lab 23/LD 19/C 6

Stockport

* Liberal Democrat

C gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council LD 36/Lab 14/C 10/R 3

Sunderland

* Lab

C gain 5/Lab lose 5

New council Lab 48/C 22/Ind 4/LD 1

Tameside

* Lab

LD lose 1/C gain 2/Lab lose 1

New council Lab 44/C 10/Ind 3

Trafford

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD gain 1/Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 39/Lab 19/LD 5

North Tyneside

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 3

New council C 31/Lab 21/LD 8

South Tyneside

* Lab

Lab lose 4/Ind gain 4

New council Lab 31/Ind 17/LD 3/C 3

Wakefield

* Lab

LD lose 1/Ind gain 2/Lab lose 8/C gain 7

New council Lab 32/C 23/Ind 6/LD 2

Walsall

* Conservative

New council C 33/Lab 18/LD 6/Ind 3

Wigan

* Lab

C gain 4/Lab lose 4

New council Lab 42/Ind 15/C 14/LD 4

Wirral

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 4/LD gain 1/C gain 4

New council C 24/Lab 21/LD 20/Ind 1

Wolverhampton

* Lab lose to NOC

Ind lose 1/LD gain 1/Lab lose 8/C gain 8

New council Lab 28/C 27/LD 5

Non-Metro

Adur

* Conservative

New council C 26/Ind 2/LD 1

Amber Valley

* Conservative

BNP gain 2/Lab lose 3/C gain 1

New council C 29/Lab 14/BNP 2

Barrow-in-Furness*

* No overall control

LD down 1/Lab down 8/Ind up 7

New council LD 1/Ind 10/C 17/Lab 8

Basildon

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 29/Lab 10/LD 3

Basingstoke & Deane*

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind down 1/Lab down 2/LD down 2/C up 5

New council LD 14/Ind 2/C 35/Lab 9

Bassetlaw

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 30/Lab 16/Ind 2

Brentwood

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/Ind gain 1

New council C 28/LD 6/Lab 2/Ind 1

Broxbourne

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council C 35/Lab 3

Burnley

* Liberal Democrat gain from NOC

Lab lose 5/LD gain 5

New council LD 23/Lab 12/C 6/BNP 4

Cambridge

* Liberal Democrat

Green gain 1/C gain 1/Lab lose 2

New council LD 28/Lab 11/Ind 1/Green 1/C 1

South Cambridgeshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 32/LD 15/Ind 9/Lab 1

Cannock Chase

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 15/LD 14/C 12

Carlisle

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 21/C 21/LD 7/Vacant 2/Ind 1

Castle Point

* Conservative

New council C 25/Ind 15/Lab 1

Cheltenham

* No overall control

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 2/LD gain 3

New council LD 20/C 17/Ind 3

Cherwell

* Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 44/LD 4/Lab 2

Chorley

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/C gain 2

New council C 28/Lab 14/LD 3/Ind 2

Colchester

* Conservative lose to NOC

Lab gain 1/C lose 5/LD gain 4

New council C 27/LD 23/Lab 7/Ind 3

Craven

* No overall control

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 15/Ind 10/LD 5

Crawley

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Lab lose 3/C gain 4

New council C 26/Lab 9/LD 2

Daventry

* Conservative

New council C 35/LD 2/Lab 1

Eastleigh

* Liberal Democrat

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 38/C 4/Lab 2

Elmbridge

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 1/R lose 3/C gain 4

New council C 32/R 21/LD 7

Epping Forest

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/BNP lose 2/LD lose 1/R gain 1/C gain 4

New council C 36/LD 9/R 6/BNP 4/Ind 2/Lab 1

Exeter

* No overall control

Lab lose 3/C gain 2/LD gain 1

New council LD 13/C 12/Lab 11/Lib 4

Fareham

* Conservative

New council C 22/LD 9

Gloucester

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 3

New council C 18/LD 10/Lab 8

Gosport

* No overall control

Lab lose 4/LD gain 5/C lose 1

New council C 16/LD 14/Lab 4

Great Yarmouth

* Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 24/Lab 15

Harlow

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 4/Ind lose 1/C gain 5

New council C 18/LD 8/Lab 6/Vacant 1

Harrogate

* No overall control

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 27/LD 21/Ind 6

Hart

* No overall control

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 17/LD 10/Ind 8

Hastings

* No overall control

LD lose 2/Lab gain 1/C gain 1

New council C 15/Lab 13/LD 3/Ind 1

Havant

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 32/Lab 3/LD 3

North Hertfordshire

* Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 32/LD 9/Lab 8

Hertsmere

* Conservative

LD lose 2/Lab lose 1/C gain 3

New council C 31/LD 5/Lab 3

Huntingdonshire

* Conservative

LD gain 1/C lose 1

New council C 38/LD 12/Ind 2

Hyndburn

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 19/Lab 13/Ind 3

Ipswich

* No overall control

LD lose 1/C lose 2/Lab gain 3

New council Lab 21/C 19/LD 8

South Lakeland*

* Liberal Democrat

Green down 1/Ind down 1/Lab down 1/C down 2/LD up 4

New council Lab 1/C 14/LD 36

West Lancashire

* Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 35/Lab 18/Ind 1

Lincoln

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 18/Lab 14/LD 1

West Lindsey

* Conservative gain from Liberal Democrat

LD lose 4/C gain 4

New council C 20/LD 16/Ind 1

Maidstone

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 2/Ind gain 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council C 29/LD 20/Ind 5/Lab 1

Mole Valley

* Conservative

New council C 22/LD 16/Ind 3

Newcastle-under-Lyme

* No overall control

Lab lose 8/UKIP gain 2/LD gain 1/C gain 5

New council C 25/LD 19/Lab 12/UKIP 4

Norwich

* No overall control

C gain 2/LD lose 5/Green gain 3

New council Lab 15/Green 13/LD 6/C 5

Nuneaton & Bedworth

* Conservative gain from Lab

BNP gain 2/Lab lose 6/C gain 4

New council C 18/Lab 14/BNP 2

Oxford

* No overall control

C lose 2/Ind lose 2/Green lose 1/LD gain 1/Lab gain 4

New council Lab 23/LD 16/Green 7/Ind 2

West Oxfordshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/LD lose 2/C gain 4

New council C 40/LD 6/Ind 2/Lab 1

Pendle

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Ind gain 1/BNP gain 1/LD lose 8/Lab gain 4/C gain 2

New council LD 20/C 16/Lab 10/BNP 2/Ind 1

Preston

* No overall control

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 24/C 21/LD 9/Ind 2/Respect 1

Purbeck

* No overall control

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 11/LD 11/Ind 2

Redditch

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 4/C gain 4

New council C 15/Lab 10/LD 3/BNP 1

Reigate & Banstead

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/LD gain 1/C lose 2

New council C 39/R 6/LD 3/Ind 2/Lab 1

Rochford

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 33/LD 5/R 1

Rossendale

* Conservative gain from NOC

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 3/LD gain 1/C gain 3

New council C 21/Lab 11/LD 3/Ind 1

Rugby

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 28/Lab 11/LD 9

Runnymede

* Conservative

New council C 36/R 6

Rushmoor

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 29/LD 8/Lab 5

St Albans

* Liberal Democrat gain from NOC

Lab lose 3/Ind lose 1/C gain 3/LD gain 1

New council LD 30/C 22/Lab 5/Ind 1

Stevenage

* Lab

LD lose 1/C gain 3/Lab lose 2

New council Lab 30/C 5/LD 3/UKIP 1

Stratford-on-Avon

* Conservative

LD gain 5/C lose 5

New council C 32/LD 19/Ind 2

Stroud

* Conservative

Green gain 1/LD gain 1/Lab lose 2

New council C 31/Lab 7/Green 6/LD 5/Ind 2

Swale

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 26/Lab 9/Ind 7/LD 5

Tamworth

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 24/Lab 5/Ind 1

Tandridge

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council C 33/LD 8/Ind 1

Three Rivers

* Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 2/BNP gain 1/C gain 1

New council LD 31/C 12/Lab 4/BNP 1

Tunbridge Wells

* Conservative

LD lose 3/C gain 3

New council C 44/LD 4

Watford

* Liberal Democrat

Lab gain 1/LD lose 1

New council LD 27/C 3/Lab 3/Green 3

Waveney

* Conservative

New council C 30/Lab 12/LD 3/Ind 2/Green 1

Welwyn Hatfield*

* Conservative

Lab down 5/C up 5

New council LD 3/C 40/Lab 5

Weymouth & Portland

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/Ind lose 1/C gain 2/LD gain 1

New council C 16/LD 12/Lab 4/Ind 4

Winchester

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 29/LD 24/Ind 3/Lab 1

Woking

* Conservative

New council C 19/LD 17

Worcester

* No overall control

New council C 17/Lab 13/LD 3/Ind 2

Worthing

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD gain 1

New council C 24/LD 13

Wyre Forest

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 2/Lib lose 1/C gain 4

New council C 22/Ind HC 10/Lib 6/Lab 2/LD 2

Unitary

Blackburn with Darwen

* No overall control

Ind gain 3/C gain 1/Lab lose 4

New council Lab 27/C 18/LD 11/Ind 8

Cheshire West & Chester

*

New council Lab 13/LD 4/C 55

Cheshire East

*

New council LD 12/Ind 4/C 59/Lab 6

Derby

* No overall control

Lab lose 4/C lose 1/LD gain 5

New council LD 18/Lab 17/C 14/Ind 2

Durham

*

New council C 10/Ind 22/LD 27/Lab 67

Halton

* Lab

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council Lab 33/LD 14/C 9

Hartlepool

* Lab lose to NOC

UKIP gain 1/C gain 1/LD lose 1/Lab lose 1

New council Lab 23/Ind 11/LD 6/C 5/UKIP 2

Kingston-upon-Hull

* Liberal Democrat gain from NOC

Ind lose 4/Lab lose 1/LD gain 5

New council LD 33/Lab 19/Ind 4/C 3

North East Lincolnshire

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/C gain 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 20/C 16/Lab 4/Ind 2

Milton Keynes

* No overall control

Lab lose 4/C gain 5/LD lose 1

New council LD 21/C 20/Lab 10

Northumberland

*

New council C 17/Lab 17/LD 26/Ind 7

Peterborough

* Conservative

LD lose 1/Ind lose 3/C gain 4

New council C 43/Ind 6/LD 3/Lib 3/Lab 2

Plymouth

* Conservative

Lab lose 6/C gain 6

New council C 37/Lab 20

Portsmouth

* No overall control

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 2/LD lose 1/C gain 4

New council LD 19/C 19/Lab 2/Ind 2

Reading

* Lab lose to NOC

LD gain 1/C gain 4/Lab lose 5

New council Lab 20/C 18/LD 8

Slough

* Lab gain from NOC

UKIP lose 1/LD lose 1/Ind lose 1/C lose 1/Lab gain 4

New council Lab 23/Ind 6/C 6/LD 3/Lib 3

Southampton

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 3/Ind lose 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 8

New council C 26/Lab 14/LD 8

Southend-on-Sea

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/Ind gain 1/LD gain 2/C lose 2

New council C 27/LD 12/Lab 6/Ind 6

Stoke-on-Trent

* No overall control

LD gain 1/BNP gain 3/Lab lose 7/Ind gain 3

New council Ind 19/Lab 17/C 9/BNP 9/LD 6

Swindon

* Conservative

New council C 41/Lab 11/LD 3/Ind 2/Vacant 2

Thurrock

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/BNP gain 1

New council C 24/Lab 22/Ind 2/BNP 1

Warrington

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/C gain 2/Lab lose 2/LD gain 1

New council LD 28/Lab 22/C 7

Wokingham

* Conservative

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 44/LD 10

Wales

Blaenau Gwent

* Ind gain from Lab

Lab lose 8/Ind gain 8

New council Lab 17/LD 2/Ind 23

Bridgend

* No overall control

C lose 1/Ind lose 2/LD lose 2/Lab gain 5

New council PC 1/LD 11/Lab 27/C 6/Ind 9

Caerphilly

* Lab lose to NOC

Ind gain 3/PC gain 6/Lab lose 9

New council Lab 32/PC 32/Ind 9

Cardiff

* No overall control

Ind gain 1/PC gain 3/Lab lose 14/C gain 7/LD gain 3

New council Lab 13/C 17/Ind 3/LD 35/PC 7

Carmarthenshire

* No overall control

LD gain 1/Lab lose 14/Ind lose 2/PC gain 15

New council LD 1/Lab 11/Ind 31/PC 31

Ceredigion

* No overall control

LD gain 1/Ind lose 4/PC gain 3

New council Lab 1/LD 10/Ind 12/PC 19

Conwy

* No overall control

LD lose 1/Lab lose 5/PC gain 1/Ind lose 3/C gain 8

New council PC 12/Ind 14/C 22/LD 4/Lab 7

Denbighshire

* Ind lose to NOC

LD gain 1/PC gain 1/Ind lose 11/C gain 9

New council LD 1/Ind 13/C 18/Lab 7/PC 8

Flintshire

* Lab lose to NOC

C gain 5/LD gain 1/Lab lose 13/Ind gain 7

New council PC 1/Vacant 1/LD 11/Lab 22/Ind 26/C 9

Gwynedd

* PC lose to NOC

Lab lose 4/LD lose 1/Ind gain 13/PC lose 8

New council Vacant 1/Ind 30/PC 35/Lab 4/LD 5

Isle of Anglesey

* Ind

C gain 1/LD gain 1/Lab gain 5/PC gain 2/Ind lose 9

New council C 2/LD 2/Ind 23/Lab 5/PC 8

Merthyr Tydfil

* Ind gain from Lab

LD gain 6/Lab lose 9/Ind gain 3

New council Ind 19/LD 6/Lab 8

Monmouthshire

* Conservative

PC lose 1/Ind lose 4/LD gain 2/Lab lose 2/C gain 5

New council Ind 1/PC 1/C 29/LD 5/Lab 7

Neath Port Talbot

* Lab

R lose 6/LD gain 2/Ind gain 2/PC gain 1/Lab gain 1

New council PC 11/R 3/Lab 37/LD 4/Ind 9

Newport

* Lab lose to NOC

LD gain 3/C gain 5/Lab lose 8

New council Ind 1/PC 1/C 17/Lab 19/LD 6/Vacant 6

Pembrokeshire

* Ind

LD gain 1/C gain 4/Lab lose 6/Ind gain 1

New council LD 3/Ind 42/C 5/Lab 5/PC 5

Powys

* Ind

C gain 9/Ind lose 9

New council LD 15/Lab 4/Ind 45/C 9

Rhondda, Cynon, Taff

* Lab

C gain 1/LD gain 2/Ind gain 3/PC gain 7/Lab lose 13

New council LD 4/Lab 44/Ind 6/C 1/PC 20

Swansea

* No overall control

PC lose 3/Ind gain 2/LD gain 3/Lab lose 2

New council PC 1/Ind 14/LD 23/Lab 30/C 4

Torfaen

* Lab lose to NOC

PC gain 3/C gain 4/Ind gain 9/Lab lose 16

New council Ind 16/Lab 18/LD 2/PC 3/C 5

Vale of Glamorgan

* Conservative gain from No overall control

PC lose 2/Lab lose 3/C gain 5

New council Lab 13/C 25/Ind 3/PC 6

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              May 3, 2008 Saturday

Weekend: Mind: THIS COLUMN WILL CHANGE YOUR LIFE

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: GUARDIAN WEEKEND PAGES; Pg. 71

LENGTH: 496 words


The point missed by the "transform your life now" culture of pop psychology is
that the changes most of us would like to make in our lives aren't enormous. We
don't have eating disorders: we'd just like to eat healthier meals. We don't
lurch through our working lives, always about to get fired: we'd just like to
finish a project on time for once. We're not debilitatingly depressed or
anxious: we'd just like to be a bit happier. All we need is a nudge, whereas
many gurus would rather deliver a kicking. Why Your Life Sucks is the title of
one book, but the implicit message of many more.

Nudge, on the other hand, is the title of an absorbing forthcoming book by the
legal scholar Cass Sunstein and Richard Thaler, an economist. It's about how we
influence the decisions people make by the way we design the context in which
they make them. Studies show, for example, that you can work wonders on school
children's eating habits by repositioning healthy and unhealthy food in the
canteen. You don't need to ban chips, and doing so may send kids running to
McDonald's.

We can do this in our personal lives, too, nudging ourselves towards better
decisions instead of instituting militaristic regimens of fitness or diet or
productivity, against which we rebel. In Sunstein and Thaler's model we have,
figuratively speaking, two brains - the planner, full of good intentions, and
the doer, who's all too prone, when it comes to the crunch, to press snooze, or
order the cheeseburger. One trick is for the planner to make rebellion
unpleasant: this column's regular reader(s) may recall me asking a friend to
mail a cheque I'd written to Ukip if I didn't go to the gym. (It worked, sort
of.) At other times, it's about harnessing inertia: the authors praise schemes
involving standing orders that increase by a tiny percentage each month. The
planner knows it'll be easy to adapt to this, even though the doer would be
unwilling, or too busy, to keep increasing savings. (Why won't British banks
allow this?) If there are crisps in my house, I eat them; if there are not, I
don't go and buy them. Both are my doer acting on auto-pilot.

For Sunstein and Thaler, this amounts to a political vision transcending the
right/left divide. They call it "libertarian paternalism" - leaving people free
to choose, but establishing small psychic costs and benefits to nudge them in
the right direction. (Positioning healthy food prominently is no real obstacle
for the determined chip-seeker.) Some US cities have tried rewarding teenage
mothers with a dollar for each day they're not pregnant again: a small cost, but
the prospect of losing the income does promote safe sex.

Taking a libertarian-paternalist approach to your own habits promises a middle
path between strenuous self-improvement and resignation to the status quo.
Finally, a direct connection between my self-help obsession and serious,
progressive politics. Told you this stuff wasn't all nonsense.

oliver.burkeman@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 3, 2008, Saturday

Results

SECTION: FEATURES; Local Elections 08; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 2669 words


Metropolitan districts

Barnsley Lab hold

LD 1, Ind 11, C 2, Lab 8 LD lose 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 1, Ind gain 1 New council
Lab 32, Ind 24, C 6, LD 1

Birmingham NOC no change

Respect 1, LD 13, C 18, Lab 8 Ind lose 1, Respect gain 1, Lab lose 6, C gain 6
New council C 49, Lab 36, LD 32, Respect 3

Bolton NOC no change

LD 4, Lab 7, C 9 LD lose 2, Lab gain 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 27, C 23, LD 9,
Ind 1

Bradford NOC no change

Green 1, C 14, LD 6, Lab 9 Lab lose 3, C gain 3 New council Lab 36, C 35, LD 14,
Green 3, BNP 2

Bury C gain from NOC

C 10, LD 3, Lab 4 LD gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 3 New council C 26, Lab 16, LD 9

Calderdale NOC no change

BNP 1, Lab 2, LD 6, C 8 Ind lose 1, BNP gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council
C 20, LD 17, Lab 9, Ind 4, BNP 1

Coventry C lose to NOC

LD 1, Soc 1, Lab 7, C 9 Lab gain 1, C lose 1 New council C 27, Lab 24, Soc 2, LD
1

Doncaster NOC no change

C 3, LD 4, Ind 6, Lab 8 C gain 1, Ind gain 1, Lab lose 2 New council Lab 27, Ind
15, LD 12, C 9

Dudley C hold

UKIP 1, C 18, Lab 6 LD lose 3, UKIP gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 4 New council C
43, Lab 26, LD 2, UKIP 1

Gateshead Lab hold

Lib 1, Lab 13, LD 9 LD gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council Lab 41, LD 24, Lib 1

Kirklees NOC no change

Green 1, LD 7, Lab 7, C 8 Ind lose 1, BNP lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD gain 1, C gain
2 New council C 22, Lab 21, LD 19, Green 4, BNP 2, Ind 1

Knowsley Lab hold

Lab 15, LD 6 LD gain 3, Lab lose 3 New council Lab 47, LD 16

Leeds NOC no change

Green 1, Lab 13, Ind 2, C 9, LD 9 C lose 1, LD gain 1 New council Lab 43, LD 24,
C 22, Ind 6, Green 3, BNP 1

Liverpool LD lose to NOC

Green 1, Lib 1, LD 13, Lab 16 Green gain 1, Lib lose 1, LD lose 3, Lab gain 3
New council LD 45, Lab 39, Lib 3, Green 2, Ind 1

Manchester Lab hold

LD 13, Lab 19 Green lose 1, LD gain 1 New council Lab 61, LD 34, C 1

Newcastle upon Tyne LD hold

LD 19, Lab 9 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 2, LD gain 3 New council LD 49, Lab 29 North
Tyneside C gain from NOC

C 11, LD 3, Lab 6 LD lose 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 3 New council C 31, Lab 21, LD 8

Oldham NOC no change

LD 11, C 4, Lab 5 C gain 4, Lab lose 8, LD gain 4 New council LD 30, Lab 22, C
7, Ind 1

Rochdale LD hold

LD 11, C 4, Lab 5 Lab lose 1, LD gain 1 New council LD 33, Lab 19, C 8

Rotherham Lab hold

Lab 14, BNP 2, C 5 Ind lose 1, BNP gain 2, C gain 3, Lab lose 4 New council Lab
50, C 10, BNP 2, Ind 1

St Helens NOC no change

C 2, LD 5, Lab 9 LD lose 2, Lab gain 2 New council Lab 23, LD 19, C 6

Salford Lab hold

Ind 1, Lab 10, LD 4, C 5 Ind gain 1, LD gain 2, C gain 3, Lab lose 6 New council
Lab 36, C 13, LD 10, Ind 1

Sandwell Lab hold

Lab 14, LD 2, C 8 C gain 3, Lab lose 3 New council Lab 49, C 14, LD 5, Ind 2,
BNP 2

Sefton NOC no change

C 6, Lab 8, LD 9 C lose 1, LD gain 1 New council LD 27, Lab 21, C 18

Sheffield LD gain from NOC

Green 1, Lab 12, LD 17 C lose 1, Ind lose 1, Green gain 1, Lab lose 5, LD gain 6
New council LD 45, Lab 36, Green 3

Solihull C gain from NOC

Green 1, Lab 1, C 10, LD 5 Green gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 1 New council C 26,
LD 18, Lab 5, BNP 1, Green 1

South Tyneside Lab hold

C 1, LD 1, Ind 8, Lab 8 Lab lose 4, Ind gain 4 New council Lab 31, Ind 17, LD 3,
C 3

Stockport LD hold

R 1, LD 12, C 4, Lab 4 C gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council LD 36, Lab 14, C 10, R 3

Sunderland Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 13, Ind 2, C 9 C gain 5, Lab lose 5 New council Lab 48, C 22, Ind 4,
LD 1

Tameside Lab hold

Ind 1, Lab 13, C 5 LD lose 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 1 New council Lab 44, C 10, Ind
3

Trafford C hold

C 13, LD 2, Lab 7 Ind lose 1, LD gain 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 39,
Lab 19, LD 5

Wakefield Lab hold

C 11, Ind 3, Lab 8 LD lose 1, Ind gain 2, Lab lose 8, C gain 7 New council Lab
32, C 23, Ind 6, LD 2

Walsall C hold

C 12, LD 2, Lab 6 New council C 33, Lab 18, LD 6, Ind 3

Wigan Lab hold

LD 1, Lab 12, C 6, Ind 6 C gain 4, Lab lose 4 New council Lab 42, Ind 15, C 14,
LD 4

Wirral NOC no change

C 11, Lab 5, LD 6 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 4, LD gain 1, C gain 4 New council C 24,
Lab 21, LD 20, Ind 1

Wolverhampton Lab lose to NOC

C 12, LD 2, Lab 6 Ind lose 1, LD gain 1, Lab lose 8, C gain 8 New council Lab
28, C 27, LD 5

Non-Metropolitan districts

Adur C hold

C 16, Ind 2 New council C 26, Ind 2, LD 1

Amber Valley C hold

BNP 2, Lab 4, C 9 BNP gain 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 1 New council C 29, Lab 14, BNP
2

Barrow-in-Furness NOC no change

LD down 1, Lab down 8, Ind up 7 New council LD 1, Ind 10, C 17, Lab 8 Basildon C
hold

LD 1, C 10, Lab 3 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 29, Lab 10, LD 3

Basingstoke & Deane C gain from NOC

Ind down 1, Lab down 2, LD down 2, C up 5 New council LD 14, Ind 2, C 35, Lab 9

Bassetlaw C hold

Ind 1, C 12, Lab 3 Ind lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 30, Lab 16, Ind 2

Brentwood C hold

Ind 1, LD 2, C 9 Lab lose 1, Ind gain 1 New council C 28, LD 6, Lab 2, Ind 1

Broxbourne C hold

Lab 1, C 11 Lab gain 1, C lose 1 New council C 35, Lab 3

Burnley LD gain from NOC

BNP 1, C 2, Lab 3, LD 9 Lab lose 5, LD gain 5 New council LD 23, Lab 12, C 6,
BNP 4

Cambridge LD hold

C 1, Green 1, Ind 1, Lab 3, LD 8 Green gain 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 2 New council
LD 28, Lab 11, Ind 1, Green 1, C 1

Cannock Chase NOC no change

Lab 2, LD 4, C 8 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council Lab 15, LD 14, C 12 Carlisle
NOC no change Ind 1, LD 3, Lab 5, C 7 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council Lab 21, C
21, LD 7, Vacant 2, Ind 1

Castle Point C hold

Ind 6, C 8 New council C 25, Ind 15, Lab 1

Cheltenham NOC no change

Ind 1, LD 10, C 9 Lab lose 1, Ind lose 2, LD gain 3 New council LD 20, C 17, Ind
3

Cherwell C hold

C 18 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 44, LD 4, Lab 2

Chorley C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, Lab 5, C 8 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2 New council C 28, Lab
14, LD 3, Ind 2

Colchester C lose to NOC

Ind 1, Lab 3, C 7, LD 9 Lab gain 1, C lose 5, LD gain 4 New council C 27, LD 23,
Lab 7, Ind 3

Craven NOC no change

Ind 1, LD 2, C 8 LD lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 15, Ind 10, LD 5

Crawley C hold

Lab 4, C 9 LD lose 1, Lab lose 3, C gain 4 New council C 26, Lab 9, LD 2

Daventry C hold

LD 1, Lab 1, C 10 New council C 35, LD 2, Lab 1

Eastleigh LD hold

LD 13, C 2 C lose 1, LD gain 1 New council LD 38, C 4, Lab 2

Elmbridge C gain from NOC

C 12, LD 2, R 6 LD lose 1, R lose 3, C gain 4 New council C 32, R 21, LD 7

Epping Forest C hold

BNP 1, C 13, LD 3, R 5 Ind lose 2, BNP lose 2, LD lose 1, R gain 1, C gain 4 New
council C 36, LD 9, R 6, BNP 4, Ind 2, Lab 1

Exeter NOC no change

Lib 1, Lab 3, C 4, LD 6 Lab lose 3, C gain 2, LD gain 1 New council LD 13, C 12,
Lab 11, Lib 4

Fareham C hold

C 12, LD 3 New council C 22, LD 9 Gloucester NOC no change

Lab 2, LD 4, C 6 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 3 New council C 18,
LD 10, Lab 8

Gosport NOC no change

Lab 1, C 10, LD 6 Lab lose 4, LD gain 5, C lose 1 New council C 16, LD 14, Lab 4

Great Yarmouth C hold

Lab 4, C 9 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 24, Lab 15

Harlow C gain from NOC

LD 2, C 8 Lab lose 4, Ind lose 1, C gain 5 New council C 18, LD 8, Lab 6, Vacant
1

Harrogate NOC no change

LD 1, C 15 LD lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 27, LD 21, Ind 6

Hart NOC no change

Ind 1, LD 3, C 8 LD lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 17, LD 10, Ind 8

Hastings NOC no change LD 1, Lab 7, C 8 LD lose 2, Lab gain 1, C gain 1 New
council C 15, Lab 13, LD 3, Ind 1

Havant C hold

LD 1, Lab 1, C 12 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 32, Lab 3, LD 3

Hertsmere C hold

Lab 1, C 12 LD lose 2, Lab lose 1, C gain 3 New council C 31, LD 5, Lab 3

Huntingdonshire C hold

Ind 1, C 13, LD 4 LD gain 1, C lose 1 New council C 38, LD 12, Ind 2

Hyndburn C hold

Lab 4, C 8 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 19, Lab 13, Ind 3

Ipswich NOC no change

LD 2, C 7, Lab 9 LD lose 1, C lose 2, Lab gain 3 New council Lab 21, C 19, LD 8

Lincoln C hold

LD 1, Lab 3, C 7 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 18, Lab 14, LD 1

Maidstone C gain from NOC

C 10, Ind 2, LD 7 Lab lose 2, Ind gain 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New council C 29,
LD 20, Ind 5, Lab 1

Mole Valley C hold

Ind 2, LD 5, C 6 New council C 22, LD 16, Ind 3

Newcastle-under-Lyme NOC no change

Lab 1, C 11, UKIP 2, LD 7 Lab lose 8, UKIP gain 2, LD gain 1, C gain 5 New
council C 25, LD 19, Lab 12, UKIP 4

North Hertfordshire C hold

C 10, Lab 2, LD 3 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 32, LD 9, Lab 8

Norwich NOC no change

C 2, LD 2, Lab 4, Green 5 C gain 2, LD lose 5, Green gain 3 New council Lab 15,
Green 13, LD 6, C 5

Nuneaton & Bedworth C gain from Lab

C 10, BNP 2, Lab 5 BNP gain 2, Lab lose 6, C gain 4 New council C 18, Lab 14,
BNP 2

Oxford NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 12, Green 3, LD 8 C lose 2, Ind lose 2, Green lose 1, LD gain 1, Lab
gain 4 New council Lab 23, LD 16, Green 7, Ind 2

Pendle LD lose to NOC

BNP 1, Ind 1, LD 4, Lab 5, C 6 Ind gain 1, BNP gain 1, LD lose 8, Lab gain 4, C
gain 2 New council LD 20, C 16, Lab 10, BNP 2, Ind 1

Preston NOC no change

Ind 1, LD 3, Lab 7, C 8 LD lose 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 24, C 21, LD 9, Ind
2, Respect 1

Purbeck NOC no change

C 4, LD 5 C lose 1, LD gain 1 New council C 11, LD 11, Ind 2

Redditch C gain from NOC

LD 1, Lab 2, C 6 Lab lose 4, C gain 4 New council C 15, Lab 10, LD 3, BNP 1

Reigate & Banstead C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, C 13, R 2 Ind gain 1, LD gain 1, C lose 2 New council C 39, R 6, LD
3, Ind 2, Lab 1

Rochford C hold

C 15 Ind lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 33, LD 5, R 1

Rossendale C gain from NOC

Lab 1, C 10, LD 2 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 3, LD gain 1, C gain 3 New council C 21,
Lab 11, LD 3, Ind 1

Rugby C hold

C 12, LD 3, Lab 3 LD lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 28, Lab 11, LD 9

Runnymede C hold

C 14, R 3 New council C 36, R 6

Rushmoor C hold

Lab 1, C 11, LD 3 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 29, LD 8, Lab 5

St Albans LD gain from NOC

Ind 1, LD 10, C 7 Lab lose 3, Ind lose 1, C gain 3, LD gain 1 New council LD 30,
C 22, Lab 5, Ind 1

South Cambridgeshire C hold

Lab 1, Ind 5, LD 5, C 9 Ind lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 32, LD 15, Ind 9, Lab
1

South Lakeland LD hold

Green down 1, Ind down 1, Lab down 1, C down 2, LD up 4 New council Lab 1, C 14,
LD 36

Stevenage Lab hold

LD 1, C 4, Lab 8 LD lose 1, C gain 3, Lab lose 2 New council Lab 30, C 5,

LD 3, UKIP 1

Stratford-on-Avon C hold

Ind 1, C 11, LD 7 LD gain 5, C lose 5 New council C 32, LD 19, Ind 2

Stroud C hold

Green 1, C 12, LD 2, Lab 2 Green gain 1, LD gain 1, Lab lose 2 New council C 31,
Lab 7, Green 6, LD 5, Ind 2

Swale C hold

Ind 1, C 10, Lab 2, LD 3 Ind gain 1, Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 1 New council
C 26, Lab 9, Ind 7, LD 5

Tamworth C hold

Lab 1, C 9 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 24, Lab 5, Ind 1

Tandridge C hold

C 11, LD 3 Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New council C 33, LD 8, Ind 1

Three Rivers LD hold

BNP 1, Lab 1, C 6, LD 9 Lab lose 2, BNP gain 1, C gain 1 New council LD 31, C
12, Lab 4, BNP 1

Tunbridge Wells C hold

LD 1, C 15 LD lose 3, C gain 3 New council C 44, LD 4

Watford LD hold

C 1, Green 1, Lab 1, LD 9 Lab gain 1, LD lose 1 New council LD 27, C 3, Lab 3,
Green 3

Waveney C hold

LD 1, C 12, Lab 4 New council C 30, Lab 12, LD 3, Ind 2, Green 1

Welwyn Hatfield C hold

Lab down 5, C up 5 New council LD 3, C 40, Lab 5

West Lancashire C hold

C 12, Lab 7 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 35, Lab 18, Ind 1

West Lindsey C gain from LD

LD 5, C 8 LD lose 4, C gain 4 New council C 20, LD 16, Ind 1

West Oxfordshire C hold

C 15, LD 2 Ind lose 2, LD lose 2, C gain 4 New council C 40, LD 6, Ind 2, Lab 1

Weymouth & Portland NOC no change

Ind 1, Lab 1, C 4, LD 7 Lab lose 2, Ind lose 1, C gain 2, LD gain 1 New council
C 16, LD 12, Lab 4, Ind 4

Winchester C hold

Ind 1, LD 12, C 6 Ind lose 1, LD gain 1 New council C 29, LD 24, Ind 3, Lab 1

Woking C hold

C 6, LD 7 New council C 19, LD 17

Worcester NOC no change

LD 1, Ind 2, Lab 4, C 5 New council C 17, Lab 13, LD 3, Ind 2

Worthing C hold

LD 4, C 9 Ind lose 1, LD gain 1 New council C 24, LD 13

Wyre Forest C gain from NOC

Ind HC 1, LD 1, C 10, Lib 2 Lab lose 1, Ind lose 2, Lib lose 1, C gain 4 New
council C 22, Ind HC 10, Lib 6, Lab 2, LD 2

Unitary

Blackburn with Darwen NOC no change

Ind 3, LD 4, C 7, Lab 8 Ind gain 3, C gain 1, Lab lose 4 New council Lab 27, C
18, LD 11, Ind 8

Cheshire East

New council LD 12, Ind 4, C 59, Lab 6

Cheshire West & Chester

New council Lab 13, LD 4, C 55

Derby NOC no change

Lab 4, C 5, LD 8 Lab lose 4, C lose 1, LD gain 5 New council LD 18, Lab 17, C
14, Ind 2

Durham

New council C 10, Ind 22, LD 27, Lab 67

Halton Lab hold

Lab 12, C 3, LD 5 C gain 1, LD lose 1 New council Lab 33, LD 14, C 9

Hartlepool Lab lose to NOC

UKIP 1, C 2, LD 2, Ind 3, Lab 7 UKIP gain 1, C gain 1, LD lose 1, Lab lose 1 New
council Lab 23, Ind 11, LD 6, C

5, UKIP 2

Kingston upon Hull LD gain from NOC

C 1, LD 12, Lab 7 Ind lose 4, Lab lose 1, LD gain 5 New council LD 33, Lab 19,
Ind 4, C 3

Milton Keynes NOC no change

Lab 3, C 7, LD 7 Lab lose 4, C gain 5, LD lose 1 New council LD 21, C 20, Lab 10

North East Lincolnshire NOC no change

Lab 1, C 4, LD 7 Lab lose 2, C gain 1, LD gain 1 New council LD 20, C 16, Lab 4,
Ind 2

Northumberland NOC

New council C 17, Lab 17, LD 26, Ind 7

Peterborough C hold

Ind 1, LD 1, Lab 1, Lib 1, C 16 LD lose 1, Ind lose 3, C gain 4 New council C
43, Ind 6, LD 3, Lib 3, Lab 2

Plymouth C hold

C 14, Lab 5 Lab lose 6, C gain 6 New council C 37, Lab 20

Portsmouth NOC no change

LD 6, C 8 Lab lose 1, Ind lose 2, LD lose 1, C gain 4 New council LD 19, C 19,
Lab 2, Ind 2

Reading Lab lose to NOC

LD 3, C 6, Lab 7 LD gain 1, C gain 4, Lab lose 5 New council Lab 20, C 18, LD 8

Slough Lab gain from NOC

LD 1, Lib 1, Ind 2, C 3, Lab 8 UKIP lose 1, LD lose 1, Ind lose 1, C lose 1, Lab
gain 4 New council Lab 23, Ind 6, C 6, LD 3, Lib 3

Southampton C gain from NOC

C 15, Lab 2 LD lose 3, Ind lose 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 8 New council C 26, Lab
14, LD 8

Southend-on-Sea C hold

Lab 1, Ind 3, LD 4, C 9 Lab lose 1, Ind gain 1, LD gain 2, C lose 2 New council
C 27, LD 12, Lab 6, Ind 6

Stoke-on-Trent NOC no change

C 2, LD 2, BNP 3, Lab 4, Ind 9 LD gain 1, BNP gain 3, Lab lose 7, Ind gain 3 New
council Ind 19, Lab 17, C 9, BNP 9, LD 6

Swindon C hold

LD 1, C 17, Lab 4 New council C 41, Lab 11, LD 3, Ind 2, Vacant 2

Thurrock NOC no change

BNP 1, Ind 1, C 10, Lab 6 Ind lose 1, BNP gain 1 New council C 24, Lab 22, Ind
2, BNP 1

Warrington NOC no change

C 4, Lab 7, LD 8 Ind lose 1, C gain 2, Lab lose 2, LD gain 1 New council LD 28,
Lab 22, C 7

Wokingham C hold

C 15, LD 3 LD lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 44, LD 10

Wales

Blaenau Gwent Ind gain from Lab

Lab lose 8, Ind gain 8 New council Lab 17, LD 2, Ind 23

Bridgend NOC no change

C lose 1, Ind lose 2, LD lose 2, Lab gain 5 New council PC 1, LD 11, Lab 27, C
6, Ind 9

Caerphilly Lab lose to NOC

Ind gain 3, PC gain 6, Lab lose 9 New council Lab 32, PC 32, Ind 9

Cardiff NOC no change

Ind gain 1, PC gain 3, Lab lose 14, C gain 7, LD gain 3 New council Lab 13, C
17, Ind 3, LD 35, PC 7

Ceredigion NOC no change

LD gain 1, Ind lose 4, PC gain 3 New council Lab 1, LD 10, Ind 12, PC 19

Conwy NOC no change

LD lose 1, Lab lose 5, PC gain 1, Ind lose 3, C gain 8 New council PC 12, Ind
14, C 22, LD 4, Lab 7

Denbighshire Ind lose to NOC

LD gain 1, PC gain 1, Ind lose 11, C gain 9 New council LD 1, Ind 13, C 18, Lab
7, PC 8

Flintshire Lab lose to NOC

C gain 5, LD gain 1, Lab lose 13, Ind gain 7 New council PC 1, Vacant 1, LD 11,
Lab 22, Ind 26, C 9

Gwynedd PC lose to NOC

Lab lose 4, LD lose 1, Ind gain 13, PC lose 8 New council Vacant 1, Ind 30, PC
35, Lab 4, LD 5

Isle of Anglesey Ind hold C

gain 1, LD gain 1, Lab gain 5, PC gain 2, Ind lose 9 New council C 2, LD 2, Ind
23, Lab 5, PC 8

Merthyr Tydfil Ind gain from Lab

LD gain 6, Lab lose 9, Ind gain 3 New council Ind 19, LD 6, Lab 8

Monmouthshire C hold

PC lose 1, Ind lose 4, LD gain 2, Lab lose 2, C gain 5 New council Ind 1, PC 1,
C 29, LD 5, Lab 7

Neath Port Talbot Lab hold

R lose 6, LD gain 2, Ind gain 2, PC gain 1, Lab gain 1 New council PC 11, R 3,
Lab 37, LD 4, Ind 9

Pembrokeshire Ind hold

LD gain 1, C gain 4, Lab lose 6, Ind gain 1 New council LD 3, Ind 42, C 5, Lab
5, PC 5

Powys Ind hold

C gain 9, Ind lose 9 New council LD 15, Lab 4, Ind 45, C 9

Swansea NOC no change

PC lose 3, Ind gain 2, LD gain 3, Lab lose 2 New council PC 1, Ind 14, LD 23,
Lab 30, C 4

Torfaen Lab lose to NOC

PC gain 3, C gain 4, Ind gain 9, Lab lose 16 New council Ind 16, Lab 18, LD 2,
PC 3, C 5

Vale of Glamorgan C gain from NOC

PC lose 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 5 New council Lab 13, C 25, Ind 3, PC 6

Wrexham NOC no change

PC gain 4, C gain 1, Lab lose 9, LD lose 2, Ind gain 6 New council Lab 11, LD
12, Ind 20, PC 4, C 5

LOAD-DATE: May 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             May 3, 2008, Saturday

How London voted

SECTION: FEATURES; Local elections 08; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 923 words


Barnet & Camden C hold

Electorate 376,818

Turnout 174,564 (46.33%)% votes

*B Coleman (C)70,65940.48

+N Gavron (Lab)52,96630.34

N Russell (LD)22,21312.72

M Dunn (Green)16,7829.61

M Nielsen (UKIP)3,6782.11

C Adebayo (CPA)3,5362.03

D Stevens (Eng Dem)

2,1461.23

D Hoefling (Left List)

2,0741.19

G Dare (Veritas)5100.29

June 2004 Coleman (C) 47,640 (35.28%) Anderson (Lab) 36,121 (26.75%)

Bexley & Bromley C hold

Electorate 407,003

Turnout 199,950 (49.13%)

% votes

J Cleverly (C)

105,16252.59

A Heslop (Lab)29,92514.97

T Papworth (LD)21,24410.62

P Winnett (NF)11,2885.65

A Garrett (Green)9,2614.63

M Greenhough (UKIP)

8,0214.01

J Hemming-Clark (ISQMH)

6,6843.34

M Suit (CPA)4,4082.20

S Uncles (Eng Dem)

2,9071.45

D Davis (Left List)1,0500.53

June 2004 Neill (C) 64,246 (40.42%) Borrowman (LD) 29,992 (18.87%)

Brent & Harrow Lab win

Electorate 367,337

Turnout 154,849 (42.15%)% votes

N Shah (Lab)57,71637.27

*B Blackman (C)56,06736.21

J Allie (LD)19,29912.46

S Ali (Green)10,1296.54

Z Sherman (CPA)4,1802.70

S Webb (UKIP)3,0211.95

P McManus (Left List)

2,2871.48

A Tailor (Eng Dem)

2,1501.39

June 2004 Blackman (C) 39,900 (33.99%) Harris (Lab) 35,214 (30.00%)

City & East Lab hold

Electorate 470,863

Turnout 183,456 (38.96%)% votes

*J Biggs (Lab)63,63534.69

P Briscoe (C)32,08217.49

H Abdulmuhit (Respect GG)

26,76014.59

R Bailey (BNP)18,0209.82

R Jalal (LD)13,7247.48

H Finlay (Green)11,4786.26

T Conquest (CPA)7,3063.98

M McGough (UKIP)

3,0781.68

G Kemp (NF)2,3501.28

M Gavan (Left List)

2,2741.24

J Griffiths (Eng Dem)

2,0481.12

J Crawford (Ind)7010.38

June 2004 Biggs (Lab) 38,085 (29.09%) Choudhury (C) 23,749 (18.14%)

Croydon & Sutton C hold

Electorate 384,162

Turnout 173,490 (45.16%)% votes

S O'Connell (C)76,47744.08

S Khan (Lab)33,81219.49

A Lock (LD)32,33518.64

D Pickles (UKIP)9,4405.44

S Khan (Green)8,9695.17

D Campanale (CPA)

6,9103.98

R Castle (Eng Dem)

4,1862.41

Z Hussain (Left List)

1,3610.78

June 2004 Pelling (C) 52,330 (38.61%) Gauge (LD) 28,636 (21.13%)

Ealing & Hillingdon C hold

Electorate 416,905

Turnout 173,139 (41.53%)% votes

*R Barnes (C)74,71043.15

R Dheer (Lab)46,07226.61

N Bakhai (LD)18,00410.40

S Edwards (Green)12,6067.28

I Edward (NF)7,9394.59

M Boyle (CPA)5,1002.95

L Robson (UKIP)4,4652.58

S Dhillon (Left List)

2,3901.38

S Chaggar (Eng Dem)

1,8531.07

June 2004 Barnes (C) 45,230 (32.42%) Singh (Lab) 34,214 (24.52%)

Enfield & Haringey

Lab hold

Electorate 369,115

Turnout 158,333 (42.90%)% votes

*J McCartney (Lab)

52,66533.26

M Laban (C)51,26332.38

M Whyte (LD)23,55014.87

P McAskie (Green)12,4737.88

S Johnson (CPA)5,7793.65

S Akgul (Left List)5,6393.56

B Hall (UKIP)4,6822.96

T Cannon (Eng Dem)

2,2821.44

June 2004 McCartney (Lab) 33,955 (29.21%) Forrest (C) 32,380 (27.86%)

Greenwich & Lewisham Lab hold

Electorate 347,252

Turnout 146,841 (42.29%)% votes

*L Duvall (Lab)53,17436.21

A Jennings (C)37,04025.22

B Robson (LD)18,17412.38

S Luxton (Green)15,60710.63

T Culnane (NF)8,5095.79

S Hammond (CPA)5,0793.46

A Tarling (UKIP)3,9102.66

J Jones (Left List)2,0451.39

J Munilla (Eng Dem)

1,7161.17

C Flood (Soc Alt)1,5871.08

June 2004 Duvall (Lab) 36,251 (33.33%) Bacon (C) 22,168 (20.38%)

Havering & Redbridge

C hold

Electorate 369,407

Turnout 164,676 (44.58%)% votes

*R Evans (C)78,49347.67

B Saund (Lab)35,46821.54

F Islam (LD)12,4437.56

L Webb (UKIP)12,2037.41

A Gunstock (Green)

9,1265.54

L Brookes (Eng Dem)

6,4873.94

P Warren (CPA)5,5333.36

P Thorogood (Ind)3,4502.10

C Vincent (Left List)

1,4730.89

June 2004 Evans (C) 44,723 (34.58%) Darvill (Lab) 28,017 (21.66%)

Lambeth & Southwark

Lab hold

Electorate 395,202

Turnout 163,083 (41.27%)% votes

*V Shawcross (Lab)

60,60137.16

C Pidgeon (LD)36,95322.66

S Houghton (C)32,83520.13

S Collins (Green)18,01111.04

G Macharia (CPA)4,4322.72

J Winton (UKIP)3,0121.85

K Young (Left List)

1,9561.20

J Polenceus (Eng Dem)

1,8671.14

J De Boo (AC)1,8281.12

D Lambert (SP)1,5880.97

June 2004 Shawcross (Lab) 36,280 (31.73%) Pidgeon (LD) 30,805 (26.94%)

Merton & Wandsworth

C hold

Electorate 362,542

Turnout 167,437 (46.18%)% votes

R Tracey (C)75,10344.85

L Cooper (Lab)48,81029.15

S Sheehan (LD)17,18710.26

R Vickery (Green)14,1248.44

S McDonald (UKIP)

4,2862.56

E Greco (CPA)4,0532.42

S Scott (Eng Dem)2,1601.29

K Stewart (Left List)

1,7141.02

June 2004 Howlett (C) 48,295 (38.83%) Smith (Lab) 31,417 (25.26%)

North East Lab hold

Electorate 451,787

Turnout 193,811 (42.90%)% votes

*J Arnold (Lab)73,55137.95

A Ellis (C)45,11423.28

M Ece (LD)28,97314.95

A Fisher (Green)25,84513.34

U Mirza (Left List)6,0193.11

N Jones (UKIP)5,3492.76

M Hargreaves (CPA)

5,3232.75

J Dodds (Eng Dem)

3,6371.88

June 2004 Arnold (Lab) 37,380 (29.05%) Stacy (LD) 24,042 (18.69%)

South West C hold

Electorate 415,092

Turnout 188,421 (45.39%)% votes

*T Arbour (C)76,91340.82

S Knight (LD)49,98526.53

A Sodha (Lab)30,19016.02

J Hunt (Green)12,7746.78

A Cripps (NF)4,7542.52

P Dul (UKIP)3,7792.01

S May (CPA)3,7181.97

A Constantine (Free England)

2,9081.54

R Cooper (Eng Dem)

1,8740.99

T Hoskins (Left List)

1,5260.81

June 2004 Arbour (C) 48,858 (33.01%) Doocey (LD) 44,791 (30.26%)

West Central C hold

Electorate 376,009

Turnout 162,239 (43.15%)% votes

K Malthouse (C)86,65153.41

+M Qureshi (Lab)35,27021.74

J Stephenson (Green)

16,87410.40

M Emerson (LD)15,9349.82

P Wiffen (UKIP)3,0601.89

A Vaughan (Eng Dem)

1,8581.15

E Nani-Kofi (Left List)

1,6301.00

A Dharamsey (Ind)

9620.59

June 2004 Bray (C) 51,884 (44.69%) Sodha (Lab) 21,940 (18.90%)

GUIDE TO PARTIES

AC Animals Count

BNP British National Party

C Conservative

CPA Christian Peoples Alliance and Christian Party

Eng Dem English Democrats

Ind Independent

ISQMH Independents to save Queen Mary's Hospital

Lab Labour

LD Liberal Democrat

NF National Front

Respect GG Respect (George Galloway)

Soc Alt Socialist Alternative

SP Socialist Party

UKIP UK Independence Party

LOAD-DATE: May 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                               May 2, 2008 Friday

Local elections: Results: Voters in the cities and the shires have their say in
the ballot box

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1087 words


Metro

Barnsley

* Lab

LD lose 1/C gain 1/Lab lose 1/Ind gain 1

New council Lab 32/Ind 24/C 6/LD 1

Birmingham

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/Respect gain 1/Lab lose 6/C gain 6

New council C 49/Lab 36/LD 32/Respect 3

Bolton

* No overall control

LD lose 2/Lab gain 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 27/C 23/LD 9/Ind 1

Bury

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD gain 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 3

New council C 26/Lab 16/LD 9

Doncaster

* No overall control

C gain 1/Ind gain 1/Lab lose 2

New council Lab 27/Ind 15/LD 12/C 9

Dudley

* Conservative

LD lose 3/UKIP gain 1/Lab lose 2/C gain 4

New council C 43/Lab 26/LD 2/UKIP 1

Knowsley

* Lab

LD gain 3/Lab lose 3

New council Lab 47/LD 16

Liverpool

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Green gain 1/Lib lose 1/LD lose 3/Lab gain 3

New council LD 45/Lab 39/Lib 3/Green 2/Ind 1

Manchester

* Lab

Green lose 1/LD gain 1

New council Lab 61/LD 34/C 1

Oldham

* No overall control

C gain 4/Lab lose 8/LD gain 4

New council LD 30/Lab 22/C 7/Ind 1

Rochdale

* Liberal Democrat

Lab lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 33/Lab 19/C 8

Rotherham

* Lab

Ind lose 1/BNP gain 2/C gain 3/Lab lose 4

New council Lab 50/C 10/BNP 2/Ind 1

Salford

* Lab

Ind gain 1/LD gain 2/C gain 3/Lab lose 6

New council Lab 36/C 13/LD 10/Ind 1

Sandwell

* Lab

C gain 3/Lab lose 3

New council Lab 49/C 14/LD 5/Ind 2/BNP 2

Sefton

* No overall control

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 27/Lab 21/C 18

St Helens

* No overall control

LD lose 2/Lab gain 2

New council Lab 23/LD 19/C 6

Stockport

* Liberal Democrat

C gain 1/Lab lose 1

New council LD 36/Lab 14/C 10/R 3

Sunderland

* Lab

C gain 5/Lab lose 5

New council Lab 48/C 22/Ind 4/LD 1

Tameside

* Lab

LD lose 1/C gain 2/Lab lose 1

New council Lab 44/C 10/Ind 3

Trafford

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD gain 1/Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 39/Lab 19/LD 5

Walsall

* Conservative

New council C 33/Lab 18/LD 6/Ind 3

Wigan

* Lab

C gain 4/Lab lose 4

New council Lab 42/Ind 15/C 14/LD 4

Wirral

* No overall control

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 4/LD gain 1/C gain 4

New council C 24/Lab 21/LD 20/Ind 1

Non Metro

Basildon

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 29/Lab 10/LD 3

Brentwood

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/Ind gain 1

New council C 28/LD 6/Lab 2/Ind 1

Broxbourne

* Conservative

Lab gain 1/C lose 1

New council C 35/Lab 3

Cannock Chase

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 15/LD 14/C 12

Carlisle

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council Lab 21/C 21/LD 7/Vacant 2/Ind 1

Castle Point

* Conservative

New council C 25/Ind 15/Lab 1

Cheltenham

* No overall control

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 2/LD gain 3

New council LD 20/C 17/Ind 3

Chorley

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/Lab lose 1/C gain 2

New council C 28/Lab 14/LD 3/Ind 2

Colchester

* Conservative lose to NOC

Lab gain 1/C lose 5/LD gain 4

New council C 27/LD 23/Lab 7/Ind 3

Eastleigh

* Liberal Democrat

C lose 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 38/C 4/Lab 2

Elmbridge

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 1/R lose 3/C gain 4

New council C 32/R 21/LD 7

Fareham

* Conservative

New council C 22/LD 9

Gosport

* No overall control

Lab lose 4/LD gain 5/C lose 1

New council C 16/LD 14/Lab 4

Great Yarmouth

* Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 24/Lab 15

Harlow

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 4/Ind lose 1/C gain 5

New council C 18/LD 8/Lab 6/Vacant 1

Hart

* No overall control

LD lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 17/LD 10/Ind 8

Hastings

* No overall control

LD lose 2/Lab gain 1/C gain 1

New council C 15/Lab 13/LD 3/Ind 1

Havant

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 32/Lab 3/LD 3

North Hertfordshire

* Conservative

Lab lose 2/C gain 2

New council C 32/LD 9/Lab 8

Hyndburn

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 19/Lab 13/Ind 3

Ipswich

* No overall control

LD lose 1/C lose 2/Lab gain 3

New council Lab 21/C 19/LD 8

Lincoln

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 18/Lab 14/LD 1

West Lindsey

* Conservative gain from Liberal Democrat

LD lose 4/C gain 4

New council C 20/LD 16/Ind 1

Maidstone

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 2/Ind gain 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council C 29/LD 20/Ind 5/Lab 1

Mole Valley

* Conservative

New council C 22/LD 16/Ind 3

Nuneaton & Bedworth

* Conservative gain from Lab

BNP gain 2/Lab lose 6/C gain 4

New council C 18/Lab 14/BNP 2

Oxford

* No overall control

C lose 2/Ind lose 2/Green lose 1/LD gain 1/Lab gain 4

New council Lab 23/LD 16/Green 7/Ind 2

West Oxfordshire

* Conservative

Ind lose 2/LD lose 2/C gain 4

New council C 40/LD 6/Ind 2/Lab 1

Pendle

* Liberal Democrat lose to NOC

Ind gain 1/BNP gain 1/LD lose 8/Lab gain 4/C gain 2

New council LD 20/C 16/Lab 10/BNP 2/Ind 1

Preston

* No overall control

LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council Lab 24/C 21/LD 9/Ind 2/Respect 1

Rochford

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 33/LD 5/R 1

Runnymede

* Conservative

R lose 3/Ind gain 3

New council C 36/R 3/Ind 3

Rushmoor

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 29/LD 8/Lab 5

St Albans

* Liberal Democrat gain from NOC

Lab lose 3/Ind lose 1/C gain 3/LD gain 1

New council LD 30/C 22/Lab 5/Ind 1

Stevenage

* Lab

LD lose 1/C gain 3/Lab lose 2

New council Lab 30/C 5/LD 3/UKIP 1

Stratford-on-Avon

* Conservative

LD gain 5/C lose 5

New council C 32/LD 19/Ind 2

Swale

* Conservative

Ind gain 1/Lab lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 26/Lab 9/Ind 7/LD 5

Tamworth

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/C gain 1

New council C 24/Lab 5/Ind 1

Tandridge

* Conservative

Ind lose 1/LD lose 1/C gain 2

New council C 33/LD 8/Ind 1

Tunbridge Wells

* Conservative

LD lose 3/C gain 3

New council C 44/LD 4

Weymouth & Portland

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/Ind lose 1/C gain 2/LD gain 1

New council C 16/LD 12/Lab 4/Ind 4

Woking

* Conservative

New council C 19/LD 17

Worcester

* No overall control

New council C 17/Lab 13/LD 3/Ind 2

Wyre Forest

* Conservative gain from NOC

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 2/Lib lose 1/C gain 4

New council C 22/Ind HC 10/Lib 6/Lab 2/LD 2

Unitary

Derby

* No overall control

C lose 1/Lab lose 3/LD gain 4

New council Lab 18/LD 17/C 14/Ind 2

Halton

* Lab

C gain 1/LD lose 1

New council Lab 33/LD 14/C 9

Hartlepool

* Lab lose to NOC

UKIP gain 1/C gain 1/LD lose 1/Lab lose 1

New council Lab 23/Ind 11/LD 6/C 5/UKIP 2

Kingston-upon-Hull

* Liberal Democrat gain from NOC

Ind lose 4/Lab lose 1/LD gain 5

New council LD 33/Lab 19/Ind 4/C 3

North East Lincolnshire

* No overall control

Lab lose 2/C gain 1/LD gain 1

New council LD 20/C 16/Lab 4/Ind 2

Plymouth

* Conservative

Lab lose 6/C gain 6

New council C 37/Lab 20

Portsmouth

* No overall control

Lab lose 1/Ind lose 2/LD lose 1/C gain 4

New council LD 19/C 19/Lab 2/Ind 2

Southampton

* Conservative gain from NOC

LD lose 3/Ind lose 1/Lab lose 4/C gain 8

New council C 26/Lab 14/LD 8

Southend-on-Sea

* Conservative

Lab lose 1/Ind gain 1/LD gain 2/C lose 2

New council C 27/LD 12/Lab 6/Ind 6

Swindon

* Conservative

New council C 41/Lab 11/LD 3/Ind 2/Vacant 2

David Cameron's Conservatives have been given an electoral thumbs-up

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 35 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              May 2, 2008, Friday

Local elections Results

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 1381 words


Metropolitan Districts

Barnsley Lab hold LD 1, Ind 11, C 2, Lab 8 LD lose 1, C gain 1, Lab lose 1, Ind
gain 1 New council Lab 32, Ind 24, C 6, LD 1 Birmingham NOC no change Respect 1,
LD 13, C 18, Lab 8 Ind lose 1, Respect gain 1, Lab lose 6, C gain 6 New council
C 49, Lab 36, LD 32, Respect 3 Bolton NOC no change LD 4, Lab 7, C 9 LD lose 2,
Lab gain 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 27, C 23, LD 9, Ind 1 Bury C gain from NOC
C 10, LD 3, Lab 4 LD gain 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 3 New council C 26, Lab 16, LD 9

Doncaster NOC no change C 3, LD 4, Ind 6, Lab 8 C gain 1, Ind gain 1, Lab lose 2
New council Lab 27, Ind 15, LD 12, C 9 Dudley C hold UKIP 1, C 18, Lab 6 LD lose
3, UKIP gain 1, Lab lose 2, C gain 4 New council C 43, Lab 26, LD 2, UKIP 1
Knowsley Lab hold Lab 15, LD 6 LD gain 3, Lab lose 3 New council Lab 47, LD 16
Liverpool LD lose to NOC Green 1, Lib 1, LD 13, Lab 16 Green gain 1, Lib lose 1,
LD lose 3, Lab gain 3 New council LD 45, Lab 39, Lib 3, Green 2, Ind 1

Manchester Lab hold LD 13, Lab 19 Green lose 1, LD gain 1 New council Lab 61, LD
34, C 1 Oldham NOC no change LD 11, C 4, Lab 5 C gain 4, Lab lose 8, LD gain 4
New council LD 30, Lab 22, C 7, Ind 1 Rochdale LD hold LD 11, C 4, Lab 5 Lab
lose 1, LD gain 1 New council LD 33, Lab 19, C 8 Rotherham Lab hold Lab 14, BNP
2, C 5 Ind lose 1, BNP gain 2, C gain 3, Lab lose 4 New council Lab 50, C 10,
BNP 2, Ind 1 St Helens NOC no change C 2, LD 5, Lab 9 LD lose 2, Lab gain 2 New
council Lab 23, LD 19, C 6 Salford Lab hold Ind 1, Lab 10, LD 4, C 5 Ind gain 1,
LD gain 2, C gain 3, Lab lose 6 New council Lab 36, C 13, LD 10, Ind 1

Sandwell Lab hold Lab 14, LD 2, C 8 C gain 3, Lab lose 3 New council Lab 49, C
14, LD 5, Ind 2, BNP 2 Sefton NOC no change C 6, Lab 8, LD 9 C lose 1, LD gain 1
New council LD 27, Lab 21, C 18 South Tyneside Lab hold C 1, LD 1, Ind 8, Lab 8
Lab lose 4, Ind gain 4 New council Lab 31, Ind 17, LD 3, C 3 Stockport LD hold R
1, LD 12, C 4, Lab 4 C gain 1, Lab lose 1 New council LD 36, Lab 14, C 10, R 3
Sunderland Lab hold LD 1, Lab 13, Ind 2, C 9 C gain 5, Lab lose 5 New council
Lab 48, C 22, Ind 4, LD 1 Tameside Lab hold Ind 1, Lab 13, C 5 LD lose 1, C gain
2, Lab lose 1 New council Lab 44, C 10, Ind 3 Trafford C hold C 13, LD 2, Lab 7
Ind lose 1, LD gain 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 39, Lab 19, LD 5
Walsall C hold C 12, LD 2, Lab 6 New council C 33, Lab 18, LD 6, Ind 3 Wigan Lab
hold LD 1, Lab 12, C 6, Ind 6 C gain 4, Lab lose 4 New council Lab 42, Ind 15, C
14, LD 4 Wirral NOC no change C 11, Lab 5, LD 6 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 4, LD gain
1, C gain 4 New council C 24, Lab 21, LD 20, Ind 1

Non-Metropolitan Districts

Amber Valley C hold BNP 2, Lab 4, C 9 BNP gain 2, Lab lose 3, C gain 1 New
council C 29, Lab 14, BNP 2 Basildon C hold LD 1, C 10, Lab 3 Lab lose 1, C gain
1 New council C 29, Lab 10, LD 3 Brentwood C hold Ind 1, LD 2, C 9 Lab lose 1,
Ind gain 1 New council C 28, LD 6, Lab 2, Ind 1 Broxbourne C hold Lab 1, C 11
Lab gain 1, C lose 1 New council C 35, Lab 3 Cannock Chase NOC no change Lab 2,
LD 4, C 8 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council Lab 15, LD 14, C 12 Castle Point C
hold Ind 6, C 8 New council C 25, Ind 15, Lab 1 Chorley C hold Ind 1, LD 1, Lab
5, C 8 Ind lose 1, Lab lose 1, C gain 2 New council C 28, Lab 14, LD 3, Ind 2
Colchester C lose to NOC Ind 1, Lab 3, C 7, LD 9 Lab gain 1, C lose 5, LD gain 4
New council C 27, LD 23, Lab 7, Ind 3 Daventry C hold LD 1, Lab 1, C 10 New
council C 35, LD 2, Lab 1 Eastleigh LD hold LD 13, C 2 C lose 1, LD gain 1 New
council LD 38, C 4, Lab 2 Elmbridge C gain from NOC C 12, LD 2, R 6 LD lose 1, R
lose 3, C gain 4 New council C 32, R 21, LD 7 Fareham C hold C 12, LD 3 New
council C 22, LD 9

Gosport NOC no change Lab 1, C 10, LD 6 Lab lose 4, LD gain 5, C lose 1 New
council C 16, LD 14, Lab 4 Great Yarmouth C hold Lab 4, C 9 Lab lose 2, C gain 2
New council C 24, Lab 15 Harlow C gain from NOC LD 2, C 8 Lab lose 4, Ind lose
1, C gain 5 New council C 18, LD 8, Lab 6, Vacant 1 Hart NOC no change Ind 1, LD
3, C 8 LD lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 17, LD 10, Ind 8 Havant C hold LD 1,
Lab 1, C 12 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 32, Lab 3, LD 3 Hyndburn C hold
Lab 4, C 8 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 19, Lab 13, Ind 3 Ipswich NOC no
change LD 2, C 7, Lab 9 LD lose 1, C lose 2, Lab gain 3 New council Lab 21, C
19, LD 8 Lincoln C hold LD 1, Lab 3, C 7 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 18,
Lab 14, LD 1 Maidstone C gain from NOC C 10, Ind 2, LD 7 Lab lose 2, Ind gain 1,
LD lose 1, C gain 2 New council C 29, LD 20, Ind 5, Lab 1

Mole Valley C hold Ind 2, LD 5, C 6 New council C 22, LD 16, Ind 3 North
Hertfordshire C hold C 10, Lab 2, LD 3 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 32, LD
9, Lab 8 Nuneaton & Bedworth C gain from Lab C 10, BNP 2, Lab 5 BNP gain 2, Lab
lose 6, C gain 4 New council C 18, Lab 14, BNP 2 Oxford NOC no change Ind 1, Lab
12, Green 3, LD 8 C lose 2, Ind lose 2, Green lose 1, LD gain 1, Lab gain 4 New
council Lab 23, LD 16, Green 7, Ind 2 Pendle LD lose to NOC BNP 1, Ind 1, LD 4,
Lab 5, C 6 Ind gain 1, BNP gain 1, LD lose 8, Lab gain 4, C gain 2 New council
LD 20, C 16, Lab 10, BNP 2, Ind 1 Preston NOC no change Ind 1, LD 3, Lab 7, C 8
LD lose 1, C gain 1 New council Lab 24, C 21, LD 9, Ind 2, Respect 1 Rochford C
hold C 15 Ind lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 33, LD 5, R 1 Runnymede C hold C
14, Ind 3 R lose 3, Ind gain 3 New council C 36, R 3, Ind 3 Rushmoor C hold Lab
1, C 11, LD 3 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 29, LD 8, Lab 5 St Albans LD
gain from NOC Ind 1, LD 10, C 7 Lab lose 3, Ind lose 1, C gain 3, LD gain 1 New
council LD 30, C 22, Lab 5, Ind 1 Sandwell Lab hold Lab 14, LD 2, C 8 C gain 3,
Lab lose 3 New council Lab 49, C 14, LD 5, Ind 2, BNP 2

Stevenage Lab hold LD 1, C 4, Lab 8 LD lose 1, C gain 3, Lab lose 2 New council
Lab 30, C 5, LD 3, UKIP 1 Stratford-on-Avon C hold Ind 1, C 11, LD 7 LD gain 5,
C lose 5 New council C 32, LD 19, Ind 2 Swale C hold Ind 1, C 10, Lab 2, LD 3
Ind gain 1, Lab lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 26, Lab 9, Ind 7, LD 5
Tamworth C hold Lab 1, C 9 Lab lose 1, C gain 1 New council C 24, Lab 5, Ind 1
Tandridge C hold C 11, LD 3 Ind lose 1, LD lose 1, C gain 2 New council C 33, LD
8, Ind 1 Tunbridge Wells C hold LD 1, C 15 LD lose 3, C gain 3 New council C 44,
LD 4 West Lancashire C hold C 12, Lab 7 Lab lose 2, C gain 2 New council C 35,
Lab 18, Ind 1 West Lindsey C gain from LD LD 5, C 8 LD lose 4, C gain 4 New
council C 20, LD 16, Ind 1 West Oxfordshire C hold C 15, LD 2 Ind lose 2, LD
lose 2, C gain 4 New council C 40, LD 6, Ind 2, Lab 1

Weymouth & Portland NOC no change Ind 1, Lab 1, C 4, LD 7 Lab lose 2, Ind lose
1, C gain 2, LD gain 1 New council C 16, LD 12, Lab 4, Ind 4 Winchester C hold
Ind 1, LD 12, C 6 Ind lose 1, LD gain 1 New council C 29, LD 24, Ind 3, Lab 1
Woking C hold C 6, LD 7 New council C 19, LD 17 Worcester NOC no change LD 1,
Ind 2, Lab 4, C 5 New council C 17, Lab 13, LD 3, Ind 2 Wyre Forest C gain from
NOC Ind HC 1, LD 1, C 10, Lib 2 Lab lose 1, Ind lose 2, Lib lose 1, C gain 4 New
council C 22, Ind HC 10, Lib 6, Lab 2, LD 2

Unitary

Derby NOC no change C 5, Lab 5, LD 7 C lose 1, Lab lose 3, LD gain 4 New council
Lab 18, LD 17, C 14, Ind 2 Halton Lab hold Lab 12, C 3, LD 5 C gain 1, LD lose 1
New council Lab 33, LD 14, C 9 Hartlepool Lab lose to NOC UKIP 1, C 2, LD 2, Ind
3, Lab 7 UKIP gain 1, C gain 1, LD lose 1, Lab lose 1 New council Lab 23, Ind
11, LD 6, C 5, UKIP 2 Kingston-upon-Hull LD gain from NOC C 1, LD 12, Lab 7 Ind
lose 4, Lab lose 1, LD gain 5 New council LD 33, Lab 19, Ind 4, C 3

North East Lincolnshire NOC no change Lab 1, C 4, LD 7 Lab lose 2, C gain 1, LD
gain 1 New council LD 20, C 16, Lab 4, Ind 2 Peterborough C hold Ind 1, LD 1,
Lab 1, Lib 1, C 16 LD lose 1, Ind lose 3, C gain 4 New council C 43, Ind 6, LD
3, Lib 3, Lab 2 Plymouth C hold C 14, Lab 5 Lab lose 6, C gain 6 New council C
37, Lab 20 Portsmouth NOC no change LD 6, C 8 Lab lose 1, Ind lose 2, LD lose 1,
C gain 4 New council LD 19, C 19, Lab 2, Ind 2 Southampton C gain from NOC C 15,
Lab 2 LD lose 3, Ind lose 1, Lab lose 4, C gain 8 New council C 26, Lab 14, LD 8
Southend-on-Sea C hold Lab 1, Ind 3, LD 4, C 9 Lab lose 1, Ind gain 1, LD gain
2, C lose 2 New council C 27, LD 12, Lab 6, Ind 6 Swindon C hold LD 1, C 17, Lab
4 New council C 41, Lab 11, LD 3, Ind 2, Vacant 2

LOAD-DATE: May 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
