
                               1 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday

Boris signs up Labour's Kate;
Brown is furious as maverick agrees to be Tory's Olympic adviser

BYLINE: Michael Lea

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 1577 words


GORDON Brown faced fresh embarrassment last night after one of his highprofile
MPs announced she will work for Boris Johnson if he wins London.

Kate Hoey caused fury inside Downing Street by accepting an offer from the Tory
front-runner to advise him on sport in the capital if he becomes mayor.

The Prime Minister was left powerless to sack her as a Labour MP because he was
the one who promoted the idea of cross-party co-operation last summer when he
recruited Tories to his 'government of all the talents'.

Mr Johnson's campaign announced yesterday that former sports minister Miss Hoey
would become 'the first member of his administration' as an unpaid non-executive
director if he is elected mayor. The announcement, two days before tomorrow's
crucial local and London elections, was hailed as a coup for the Tories.

It compounded the sense of impending doom in Labour ranks amid reports that the
momentum has swung behind Mr Johnson.

Labour hopes that Ken Livingstone can cling on have been replaced by fears that
his defeat could trigger a fresh crisis of confidence in Mr Brown. Number 10 is
finalising plans for a blitz of policy announcements in coming days in an
attempt to regain momentum.

The party machine also bit the bullet on a potentially tricky by-election by
announcing the poll to replace Labour stalwart Gwyneth Dunwoody in Crewe and
Nantwich will take place earlier than expected on May 22.

Miss Hoey's decision to work for Mr Johnson sparked frustration in Labour ranks
that she had allowed herself to fall prey to what they said was a Tory stunt.
Some MPs questioned whether she should be expelled from the party.

Miss Hoey said she would act as an unpaid adviser on sport and the 2012 Olympics
on a 'non-partisan basis'.

She was forced to issue a statement 'clarifying' her decision after a tense
meeting in the Commons with Chief Whip Geoff Hoon.

With the vote in London on a knifeedge, the move - so close to polling day -
risks further undermining Labour hopes of holding onto the capital.

Mr Brown is braced for 'meltdown' in town hall elections across England and
Wales with Labour expected to lose up to 200 councillors. Defeat for Mr
Livingstone in London would be a damaging blow to the PM's authority.

Miss Hoey's apparent 'defection', announced in a Tory press release, took Labour
by complete surprise yesterday morning. Mr Johnson said: 'I am delighted to
announce that Kate Hoey will join me in my administration if I win on May 1. She
and I agree that there is much more that can be done to promote sport and to
develop sporting facilities across London.'

Echoing the Prime Minister's 'government of all the talents', which includes
individuals from across the political spectrum, Mr Johnson added: 'Kate has a
huge and well-known commitment to sport and to London, and I am determined to
bring talent from across politics and the community to a new administration.'
Tory leader David Cameron said he was 'delighted' with the ex-minister.

Shortly afterwards, Mr Hoon summoned Miss Hoey to his Commons office for a
'meeting without coffee' - a polite Whitehall phrase for a dressing down.
Following a 'lengthy conversation' Miss Hoey issued a statement, which had been
approved by No10, clarifying her position.

'This is not an endorsement of Boris Johnson for mayor,' she insisted. 'I will
be voting for my party and Labour candidates on Thursday. I am a Labour MP and I
am standing for Labour at the next election. I support the Labour Government.'
Although the MP for Vauxhall, South London, fell short of naming Mr Livingstone,
of whom she has been highly critical, her statement meant she avoided expulsion
by staying just within party rules.

The key passage of the Labour rulebook states: 'Any member of the party who
joins or supports a political organisation other than the Labour Party ... or
who supports any candidate who stands against an official Labour candidate or
who publicly declares their intention to do so will be automatically ineligible
to remain a member.' Speculation that Miss Hoey could back the Tory candidate
has been rife since she was scheduled to appear alongside him at a campaign
event last week but pulled out, blaming ill health.

Yesterday, she compared her proposed role under Mr Johnson to that of Tory MPs
who have agreed to work with Mr Brown on specific issues.

'The key part of the Boris Johnson statement - ie that I will be the first
member of his administration - is wrong,' she said.

'I have simply agreed to act in a similar position, for example, to Conservative
MPs John Bercow and Patrick Mercer - in that I have said that I will advise on a
non-partisan basis in respect of my lifetime commitment to bringing sport to the
people of London.' Miss Hoey has been a constant thorn in the side of the
Government, particularly over her opposition to Labour's hunting ban.

Flirting with the enemy, however, was enough to provoke outrage within Labour's
ranks yesterday.

Left-winger Jeremy Corbyn said: 'It is deplorable, regrettable and she should
get behind Ken Livingstone.' But Mr Livingstone said Miss Hoey had been 'a sort
of semi-detached member of the Labour Party in recent years'.

Quentin Letts - Page 14 m.lea@dailymail.co.uk

How to make sure your vote really counts

Who's electing what in London tomorrow? In London, 5.5million men and women are
eligible to vote for their new mayor. Ken Livingstone, the Labour candidate,
wants a third term. Boris Johnson, his Conservative challenger, has been leading
in some of the opinion polls. London is also voting for the London Assembly,
which is supposed to hold the mayor to account.

Some people have already cast their vote by post. The remainder can vote between
7.00am and 10pm on Thursday at their local polling station, with the result
announced late on Friday.

How does the mayoral election work? On a pink ballot paper, every voter has one
first and one second vote. In the first round of voting, only the first votes
are counted, and if one candidate gets more than 50 per cent, they are the
winner.

If, as is likely, there is no outright winner, then the top two go through to a
second round. The second votes of those who voted for candidates who have now
been eliminated are then counted, but only if, on the second preference, they
voted for either of the two still in the race. The candidate with the most votes
- first and second added together - wins.

What should I do if I want to get rid of Ken at all costs? You should vote for
Boris. He's the only candidate with a chance of beating the current mayor, so if
getting a new man into City Hall is all that matters, he's the only choice.

Is there any advantage in not backing the candidate I want to win with my first
vote, then voting for them with my second? No. This is an urban myth. First and
second votes count for exactly the same, so you might as well vote for your
favourite with the first vote.

What happens if I vote for the same candidate twice? Your ballot paper will
still be valid, but only the first vote will count.

Who holds the key to the election? Supporters of Brian Paddick. If the opinion
polls are to be believed, the Liberal Democrat candidate will win around 9 per
cent of the votes in the first round, and then be eliminated. If all his
supporters then switched to either Boris or Ken, they would make the crucial
difference. Paddick has refused to tell his backers how to use their second
votes, arguing on the one hand that he wants to get rid of Ken at all costs, but
on the other that Boris is too high risk. If the vote is very close, the second
vote of supporters of other minority candidates - the Greens, UKIP, the BNP -
could also be significant.

What about the London Assembly? Just to make life even more complicated,
everyone has two votes, on separate ballot papers, for the London Assembly. The
first vote - on the yellow ballot paper - is for the local constituency member
(there are 14 constituencies across the capital). The winners are decided on a
first-past-the-post system, as in a general election.

The second vote - on what is described as a peach-coloured ballot paper - is a
London-wide vote for a political party. The last 11 assembly members are then
chosen from party lists according to how many of these peach coloured votes
their party received, using a compliated proportional representation formula.

What's happening in the rest of the country? Around Britain, voters will also be
going to the polls in 159 councils to choose some or all of their councillors.

Some of the results will be known tomorrow night, the others on Friday. The
crucial number that everyone will want to know is not be the number of council
seats won, but the national share of the vote. If the Tories get over 43 per
cent, they'll be happy. If Labour slip under 25 per cent, it's bad news for
Gordon Brown..

HOW THEY STAND

Boris Johnson (Con) Ken Livingstone (Lab) Brian Paddick (LibDem) Other Average
of last four polls in the battle for London Mayor Vote once (X) in column one
for your first choice Vote once (X) in column two for your second choice column
one first choice column two second choice Richard Barnbrook British National
Party Gerard Batten UK Independence Siân Berry Green Alan Craig Christian Choice
Lindsey German Left List Boris Johnson Conservative Ken Livingstone Labour
Winston McKenzie Independent Matt O'Connor English Democrats Brian Paddick
Liberal Democrats Election of the Mayor Boris Johnson Ken Livingstone Brian
Paddick Siân Berry

LOAD-DATE: May 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: 'Delighted': Boris Johnson yesterday Kate Hoey: Compared her role with
Tories who have agreed to help Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                            April 30, 2008 Wednesday

How to vote

BYLINE: Graeme Wilson, Deputy Political Editor

LENGTH: 529 words


The race to be London's mayor

AFTER weeks of door-knocking, name-calling and cheesy photocalls, Londoners are
finally getting the chance to choose their mayor for the next four years.

The choice tomorrow is effectively between front-runners Boris Johnson or Ken
Livingstone. But the voting system could not be more complicated. Across the
capital's polling stations, voters will have to fill in THREE ballot papers.
Here is The Sun's voting guide.

LONDON MAYOR: The PINK paper is for London mayor and lists a total of ten
candidates. Everyone gets TWO votes under a system known as the supplementary
vote, where voters choose a first AND second preference.

Alongside the candidates' names are two columns of boxes - one for your first
choice candidate and the other for your second choice.

If you want to vote for Boris, you put a cross alongside his name in the
FIRST-CHOICE box. You then vote for one of the other candidates as your SECOND
preference.

For example, if you decide the UK Independence Party's Gerard Batten is your
second choice, you would put a cross alongside his name in the second-choice
box.

If you vote for the same candidate with both your first and second choices, only
one of your votes will be counted. But if you only put a cross in one of the
second-choice boxes, your vote will NOT be counted at all.

Once polling stations close, all the first-choice votes will be counted.

In the unlikely event that either Boris or Ken get more than half of these
votes, they will be declared the winner.

But neither is expected to reach the magic 50 per cent mark at the first hurdle.

Instead, the two candidates with the most first-choice votes go through to a
second round.

At this point, the other eight candidates drop out and the second-choice votes
are added to the totals of the two front-runners.

The most second-choice votes are expected to come from supporters of Lib Dem
candidate Brian Paddick. The candidate who ends up with the most first AND
second-choice votes wins - and becomes London mayor for the next four years.

An "e-counting" administration centre scans, tallies and verifies the ballot
papers. The voting system is a break from the traditional first past the post,
where a candidate can win even though they attracted fewer than half the votes
cast.

LONDON ASSEMBLY: Voters will also get TWO other ballot papers - one yellow and
the other peach- coloured - to elect the 25 members of the Assembly, which is
meant to act as a check on mayoral powers.

Support

The YELLOW paper lets you vote for a candidate in your constituency. You have
ONE vote and put a cross alongside the candidate you support. These votes will
elect 14 of the 25 Assembly members.

The PEACH paper is a London-wide vote and lists political parties.

You only have ONE vote and put a cross alongside the party you favour. These
votes will elect the remaining 11 Assembly members.

The seats are handed out according to the number of votes each party gets and
the candidates are picked from party lists.

If in doubt, check the instructions at your polling station - or ask for help.

London's future is at stake, and EVERY vote counts.

See web chats with the candidates at thesun.co.uk/londonmayor

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday

BYLINE: Ephraim Hardcastle

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 76 words


LORD Pearson of Rannoch, a leading member of the anti-EU party UKIP, reversed
his BMW into a gleaming grey Audi, causing scratches, in the House of Lords car
park. Its owner: Lord Kinnock, 66, former Labour leader and ex-EU Commissioner.
Pearson says: 'I left a sorry note on the car, offering to pay for any damage.
Neil then sent me a bill for nearly £200 and I paid up.' A spokesman for Kinnock
points out the Audi isn't a perk. 'He pays for his own cars.'

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 29, 2008 Tuesday

G2: Shortcuts: The other six candidates taking the fight to Ken and Boris

BYLINE: Tim Dowling

SECTION: GUARDIAN FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 486 words


Thursday's London mayoral election is shaping up as a two-horse race between the
incumbent Ken Livingstone and the Tory challenger Boris Johnson, with Lib Dem
Brian Paddick and Green candidate Sian Berry struggling to stay in the fray. But
a pamphlet distributed throughout the

capital in recent weeks shows that there are, in fact, a further six candidates
on the ballot, their chances of winning ranging from nil to slightly less than
nil. And at least four are not exactly friendly to London's multicultural mix.

A cosmopolitan city such as London boasts room for many

different brands of intolerance and crazed special pleading. Alongside the
far-right British National party candidate Richard Barnbrook there is Gerard
Batten of the UK Independence party. The former pledges to "stop immigration"
while the latter merely wants to freeze all immigration for five years, although
immigration

policy doesn't normally come within the mayor's remit. Barnbrook, chillingly,
says, "Remember

London the way it used to be? Clean, friendly and safe?" Batten also claims that
a vote for him is a vote to demand a referendum on an EU constitution (it
isn't).

The English Democrats, on the other hand, are grinding an axe all their own.
They're pro-England from a largely anti-Scotland stand-point. Candidate Matt
O'Connor, the former leader of the ill-fitting superhero costume-wearing

protest group Fathers4Justice, claims that Livingstone is the tool of a
"Scottish-run government". He's also very, very keen on

celebrating St George's Day. Last week O'Connor decided to stand down as a
candidate, citing a lack of financial support and incompetence within his party.
He's still on the ballot though.

Alan Craig, The Christian Choice candidate, aims to promote

marriage, champion London's

unborn, stop the building of a proposed so-called "mega-mosque" near the Olympic
site and "end the (alleged) corruption in City Hall". The parentheses around
"alleged" are, curiously, his. How can he pledge to end something he isn't
entirely sure exists? O'Connor has now endorsed Craig as the next best thing to
him.

They don't all take an anti- multiculturalist stance. Lindsey German was the
2004 mayoral candidate for George Galloway's Respect party. She is now standing
on behalf of the Left List, one of two factions to emerge from

prolonged feuding within Respect. The other, now calling itself "Respect (George
Galloway)", is backing Livingstone. German's aims include improving public
transport, stopping the war and protecting London's services from the

spiralling Olympics budget.

Finally, Winston MacKenzie, a former amateur boxer who has been a member of the
Labour party, a spokesman for Veritas, and is standing as an independent after
he failed to become the Tory candidate. He has issued a quasi-coherent, largely
rhyming manifesto: "It is my desire to take it to the wire and see Ken retire."
He's got as much chance as the next guy.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 28, 2008 Monday

Industry giants steel themselves for LME futures contract

BYLINE: AMBROSE EVANS-PRITCHARD

SECTION: CITY; MONDAY VIEW ; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 875 words


IF AMERICA and Japan are in recession, nobody told the steel market. The price
of hot-rolled coil used in cars and trucks has risen 40pc since Christmas,
reaching a record $1,003 a tonne last week. Billet steel used in buildings has
doubled to $965 since the credit crunch began in August.

Steel has shrugged off a construction slump in the world's two biggest
economies. It has ignored the housing slide in Canada, Britain, Ireland, Spain,
France, Italy, New Zealand, and the Baltics. Hasn't the IMF slashed its forecast
for world growth twice, added Europe to the sick list, and warned of a 25pc
chance of a global recession? Steel laughs.

Blame the cost of ingredients. Brazil's Vale has just extracted a 65pc rise in
iron ore prices for fiscal 2008 from producers - Posco, ThyssenKrupp, Nippon
Steel and ArcelorMittal.

Hence China's frantic efforts to stop BHP Billiton's $150bn hostile takeover of
Rio Tinto, numbers two and three in the iron league. What may be consolidation
to some, looks like a stitch-up to others.

Coking coal has tripled this year, if you can get it. The Baltic Dry Index
measuring freight rates for metals, grains, and such, has vaulted 40pc since
January, driven by iron ore demand. Blame also BRIC (Brazil, Russia, India, and
China) demand. We know the argument: China is gobbling up 35pc of world supply.
(The US barely counts at 8pc). Fifty Chinese airports on the way; 9m vehicles
produced in 2007, (up 23pc in a year); 5,000 miles of new railway lines - it
adds up.

Russia's steel use jumped 25pc last year. It is launching a $1 trillion blitz to
revamp Soviet infrastructure, starting with the St Petersburg ring road. The
Gulf shore from Dubai to Kuwait is one long arc of construction cranes.

It is obvious what is wrong with this picture. Inflation is about to spoil the
party in emerging markets. The headline rates are: Vietnam (21pc), Russia
(14pc), Qatar (14pc), UAE (11pc), Saudi Arabia (8.7pc), China (8.3pc), India
(7.3pc).

Note that the finance minister of Argentina (8.8pc) resigned in a huff on Friday
after President Cristina Kirchner blocked his efforts to curb over-heating. The
spreads on Argentine bonds popped 65 basis points as foreign investors turned
tail.

Some countries have tried to put off the day of reckoning with price freezes,
twisting their economies into knots. We have reached the point where the bloc
will have to slam on the brakes, or let the genie out of the bottle.

Whether the price of steel goes up or down, the City aims to profit. The London
Metal Exchange is today launching a futures contract for billet steel, the
semi-finished fungible variety. The first batch of July-dated lots of 65 tonnes
each - the size of a Russian-Ukrainian rail car, the industry norm - will be
sold by open outcry this morning at 11.40.

For raw theatre, it is hard to beat the shrieking finale of a price bid at the
LME. The traders perch inside a ring of red leather seats. The barter escalates
from desultory grunts and hand-signals to a fever-pitch of barking as each
five-minute session comes to a crescendo.

The last scream before the bell sets the benchmark price for copper, nickel,
aluminium, zinc, tin, and lead, respectively, across the world.

This splendid relic of Elizabethan commerce may seem quaint, but it cornered
95pc of all non-ferrous metals traded across the globe last year, with a
turnover of $9.5 trillion.

"They don't have many O' levels between them in the Ring, but the LME still
reigns supreme,'' said Nigel Farage, MEP, a metal man before he founded the UK
Independence Party. "The beauty of open outcry is that nobody can fix the price.
It all takes place in the full glare of the world, and you avoid those dramatic
gaps you get in electronic trading when nothing moves. Screaming is more orderly
than it looks,'' he said.

The steel contract is a big play, second to oil in the raw materials firmament.
World steel output hit a record $660bn last year. If the venture succeeds -
Dubai and New York's Nymex are angling for a share - it may double the LME's
turnover in five years.

Steel futures are a boon to the world's army of small producers. They can at
last sell their product into the forward market, hedging risk. It eliminates the
punitive "haircut'' imposed by banks to cover wild price moves. The cost of
credit will fall. "This is the first time they have been able to manage their
risk and guarantee cash flow,'' said Liz Milan, the LME's commercial director.
This is creative City capitalism at its best.

The steel lords sniff a threat. Hedge funds will run amok, they mutter. Look
what they did to nickel contracts last year - pushing prices up and down like a
yo-yo. "We do not believe financial institutions speculating on steel pricing
will bring any benefit to our industry,'' said Arcelor-Mittal, top dog with 10pc
of world steel.

Take that with a pinch of salt, says Perine Faye of BaseMetals.com. "They're
afraid of losing their pricing power. They've had new records every day and high
margins, so why let speculators threaten that,'' she said.

The big guns may change their mind if prices fall. Futures contracts can be a
lifeline in a bear market, as the LME knows.

Which makes you wonder: is this billet contract the bell that rings a market top
for steel?

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 28, 2008 Monday

Council polls become proxy general election: Results may prove tipping points
for party leaders: Major cities at stake as well as London mayoralty

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 625 words


Gordon Brown enters this week's local elections acutely aware that mixed results
in 4,000 council seats in England and Wales could prove a tipping point for his
career - and those of David Cameron and Nick Clegg.

At stake is control of cities such as Liverpool, Cardiff, Sheffield, and even
Birmingham, as well as the much-publicised contest to be London mayor between
the Brown-Cameron proxies, Ken Livingstone and Boris Johnson. But three-party
politics increasingly leads to coalition deals as a substitute for overall
one-party control.

In Wales, all 1,262 seats are being fought (a third of the May 1 total) and
Plaid Cymru seeks gains in Labour heartlands. The Greens (fighting 711 seats)
and British National party (contesting 562) also hope to make inroads. Rivals
fear the BNP could emerge as second party in Stoke-on-Trent and have at least
one seat on the 25-strong London assembly if Labour defectors "send a message to
Gordon". The Greens and Ukip - now flagging - currently have two each on the
assembly.

Overall, local results may have a profound impact on the volatile national scene
as grassroots issues such as council tax, school standards and dustbin
collection collide with wider concerns about the economy, crime, immigration and
- recently - the 10p tax-rate controversy.

Downing Street is hoping for modest Labour gains but also braced for net losses
of 100 or more seats despite having had the worst drubbing in 40 years when the
same seats were last contested in 2004.

Then, Tony Blair's Iraq-driven unpopularity cost Labour 400-plus seats and
pushed it into third with 26%, behind the Lib Dems (27%) and Tories (37%),
though Blair won a third term 12 months later.

For Conservative and Lib Dem leaders the stakes are also higher. Cameron needs
to maintain momentum - preferably with more than 40% - while Clegg and Brown
must hope to restore their authority as vote-winners after stumbling since
taking the helm. Squeezed by his bigger rivals, Clegg could lose seats to both.

Speaking yesterday in Liverpool, where the Lib Dems will cede overall control if
they lose five seats, after a decade in power, their strategist, Lord Rennard,
said canvassers were "doing a little better than last year" - in the city and
elsewhere.

Hazel Blears, the communities secretary, conceded yesterday: "This is obviously
a difficult set of mid-term elections for us." But she remains adamant that a
north-south divide remains. "The Conservatives will not make the massive gains
they need to. People are grumpy with us, but the Tories have not sealed the
deal."

One-third of English seats are being contested in 36 metropolitan councils, 78
districts and 23 unitary councils, plus all seats on all 22 Welsh councils as
well as four districts on new boundaries and four new "shadow" unitary
authorities, including two in Cheshire - which parties will watch because the
death of MP Gwyneth Dunwoody creates a dangerous byelection for Labour.

The Joseph Rowntree Reform Trust warns in a report today that the voting system
is vulnerable to large-scale fraud and is being undermined by parties' spending
on marginal seats. Faced with declining turnout, the government has resorted to
quick fixes, such as postal voting, to try to reverse the trend, but only added
to the vulnerability of voting to fraud, the report claims.

The trust calls for radical reforms. All voters should have to produce photo ID
to cast their ballot, there should be "robust" systems for monitoring postal and
proxy votes, and restrictions should be tightened on spending by parties at
constituency level. There have been at least 42 convictions for electoral fraud
in the last seven years, and there is a "genuine risk" of electoral integrity
being threatened.

Leader comment, page 32

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             April 28, 2008, Monday

London mayor ballot to dominate polling day, even outside the capital

BYLINE: Peter Riddell

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 717 words


The winner of the Ken and Boris show will get the headlines on Saturday morning.
But that will be only part of the story of Thursday's local elections with
contests in 137 English and 22 Welsh councils (although none in Scotland). It is
quite possible that London may not speak for the country as a whole. Ken
Livingstone could squeak home for a third term as Mayor of London, even though
Labour has dreadful results and the Conservatives excellent ones in all other
contests.

Outside the capital, this year's elections will not produce the dramatic shifts
of recent years. The Conservatives could, and probably will, perform better than
last year but achieve well under a quarter, at best, of their 911 gains of
council seats in England last year, or the capture of 37 councils. This is
partly because fewer seats are being fought this year: about 2,760 in England
(and 4,023 including Wales), down from 10,500 last year.

Apart from the elections for the London mayor and the 25-member Assembly, most
of the ballots are for thirds of seats in metropolitan big cities and industrial
towns and shire districts.

This in itself limits the scope for big changes of control. Half the seats in
seven English shire districts and all the seats in four with new boundaries are
being fought, as is every seat in four new English unitary authorities (in
Northumberland, Co Durham and two in Cheshire).

The other main reason there is unlikely to be a big turnover of seats and
councils is that most were last fought in 2004, when the Tories did well and
Labour badly. So there is less scope for the Tories to make further big gains.

Nonetheless, if the Tories do the same as in 2004, it will still be very bad for
Labour, which even now has the fewest councillors for 35 years.

The key indicator is the national share of the vote estimated by the BBC from
results in key wards and meant to show the equivalent position in the whole
country. In 2004, the Tories won 38 per cent, Labour 26 per cent (a low only
otherwise touched in 2006), and the Liberal Democrats an historic high of 29 per
cent.

The Tories have, however, achieved a share of 40 per cent in the past two years,
while their two main opponent parties have been in the 26-27 per cent range.

To judge by recent opinion polls, the Tories will hope to obtain more than 40
per cent in order to back up their claims of being on a path to winning the next
general election outright. Labour won shares of 42, 46 and 43 per cent in the
three years before its 1997 victory.

Conversely, Labour fears not only that its share will fall behind the Lib Dems,
as it has twice recently, but that it could drop to a record low of 25 per cent.
The Lib Dems would be relieved to be in second place.

In terms of seats, the Tories will be buoyant if they win more than 200 seats;
quietly pleased if they gain 100 to 200; but would be very disappointed if they
gained fewer than 100.

By contrast, Labour will be able to claim that the worst is over if it breaks
even; relieved if it loses fewer than 100 seats; but expect panic headlines if
it loses more than 200 seats.

The Lib Dems hope to gain from Labour in northern industrial seats but expect to
lose to the Tories in the South. Overall, the Lib Dems are nervous because they
are defending gains made in 2004.

The councils to watch are Reading, where Labour could easily lose overall
control, and councils now with no overall control that the Tories could capture
on a small shift of seats, such as Cheltenham, Vale of Glamorgan, Bury and North
Tyneside.

The performance of the British National Party will be watched closely. It is
contesting 562 seats, nearly a fifth of those being fought. The party still has
fewer than fifty councillors across England and last year it gained seven seats
and lost six. Its main hope is to gain the 5per cent of the London-wide vote
that would give the party a seat on the Assembly.

Green candidates are fighting a quarter of the seats and the United Kingdom
Independence Party is fighting one in seven.

Voters will have to be patient, however, because a third of the councils,
including London, will not count until Friday and whatever the trends in the
rest of the country, it will be the London mayoral race, declared early that
evening, that will shape the media and political mood next weekend.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 April 27, 2008
                                 First Edition

NUMBERS

SECTION: NEWS WEEKLY; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 47 words


2.5 million

Australia's growth in square metres, due to an extension of its continental
shelf.1

Number of UKIP MPs, after the defection of former Tory Bob Spink. 27

Percentage of 14- to 16-year-olds who feel depressed.106

The number of MPs who have said that they employ family members.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 27, 2008 Sunday

THE WEEK THAT WAS

BYLINE: Compiled by ANNE-MARIE CONWAY

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1111 words


AUSTERITY BITES, BUT NO NEED TO PANIC. YET

As US retailers began rationing rice (now double the price it was in January),
petrol stations in Scotland were restricting sales at the pumps after the
closure of the Grangemouth refinery ahead of today's threatened strike. Downing
Street told motorists not to panic, saying there was still petrol for all.

THAT HOUSING CRISIS

The number of mortgage approvals fell by 46 per cent in the 12 months to March,
but the Bank of England's promise of pounds 50bn in treasury bills for
hard-pressed lenders could improve the situation.

But it took film director Guy Ritchie to put the housing crisis in perspective:
foreigners with big money, he said, had made it almost imposs-ible to buy a pad
in central London "unless you've got 10 million quid''. Fortunately, he and
Madonna, his (American) wife, already have six houses.

And the developers of an eco-house in the Cotswolds managed to sell it off plan
for pounds 7.2m - or a record pounds 3,000 per square foot.

TRADING PLACES

The Competition Commission was "inclined to the view'' that BAA's control of the
three London airports was not in the interests of passengers or airlines,
prompting specul-ation that Gatwick or Stansted might soon be on the market.

On Wednesday, the Office of Fair Trading had to pay Wm Morrisons pounds 100,000
and apologise for "incorrectly suggesting'' the supermarket had been involved in
dairy price-fixing. On Friday, however, Morrisons appeared on the watchdog's
list of 11 retailers allegedly involved in "price co-ordination'' of tobacco
products.

REVERSALS OF FORTUNE

Six decades of one-party rule in Paraguay ended on Sunday, when Fernando Lugo, a
former Catholic bishop, was elected president. Nepal's former Maoist rebels
over-turned the ruling coalition, winning more than a third of the seats in the
assembly elections. Hillary Clinton beat Barack Obama by almost 10 points in the
Pennsylvania primary. The UK Independence Party gained its first MP: Bob Spink,
the former Tory MP for Castle Point in Essex. A boatload of arms destined for
Zimababwe was sent back to China, as no south African country would let the
cargo through, and Beijing finally agreed to meet representatives of the exiled
Tibetan leader, the Dalai Lama.

IRAQ? IT'S A ZOO OUT THERE

As local forces claimed to have captured Iraq's most wanted man (Izzat Ibrahim
al-Duri), a US company revealed plans to turn Baghdad's abandoned zoo into a
pounds 250m amusement park. Too late for Gen David Petraeus, the US commander in
charge of the coalition forces there, who, subject to Senate approval, will be
moving to Florida as head of Central Command (Centcom), which oversees military
activity in the region from Egypt to the Chinese border.

SUMMER OF DISCONTENT

Whatever the weathermen were saying, sports fans were predicting grey days
ahead. Among the first signs of a traditional British summer were Liverpool's
own goal (courtesy of John Arne Riise) in their first Champions League semi
against Chelsea on Tuesday, Andrew Flintoff's golden duck against Somerset on
Thursday, and Andy Murray's straight-set humiliation by Novak Djokovic in Monte
Carlo.

There were a few silver linings: the boxer Joe Calzaghe won his 45th fight in a
row, and Arsenal's women's side beat Chelsea 4-1 to take their fifth consecutive
Premier League title.

DEATHS NOTICED

James Hughes, 21, the disabled man whose body was found in a suitcase in his
mother's back garden after she was found dead in a wood on Monday.

Humphrey Lyttelton, 86, jazz musician and host of Radio 4's I'm Sorry I Haven't
a Clue for the past 35 years.

E A Markham (aka Paul St Vincent, Sally Goodman and Pewter Stapleton), 68, West
Indian poet, writer, lecturer and theatre director.

Cardinal Alfonso López Trujillo, 72, the Colombian conservative thought by some
theologians to be "the real Rottweiler at the Vatican''.

PRINCES CHARMING

On Monday, Prince Harry and Prince William went to the Headley Court
Rehabilitation Centre, above, to meet wounded troops and publicise next month's
City Salute fundraiser for the centre. 'It was more like banter than talking to
a royal,' said one patient approvingly, obviously agreeing with singer Josh
Stone that 'although they are the poshest people I know, they are so down to
earth'.

Later, the Ministry of Defence admitted to 'a degree of naivety' in the RAF's
decision to let Prince William - whom the Queen appointed the 1,000th Knight of
the Garter on Tuesday - fly military helicopters on joyrides, sorry, 'training
flights', that included giving Prince Harry a lift from his London barracks to
their cousin Peter Phillips's stag party on the Isle of Wight.

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR...

Tony Blair It wasn't his leadership award from the Atlantic Council of the
United States that gave the former PM a big head - that was Phil Hale's official
portrait, left, for the parliamentary art collection.

The Priests aka the three Northern Irish clergy-men who signed a pounds 1m
record deal with Sony for a debut album of hymns and opera classics.

McJobbers The British couturier Bruce Oldfield unveiled the new "more upmarket''
uniforms McDonald's staff will be wearing next month.

Ukrainian pop pickers Sir Paul McCartney has promised to play a free concert in
Kiev on June 14.

N S Harsha The Indian painter won the National Museum Cardiff's pounds 40,000
Artes Mundi prize.

AND A BAD ONE FOR...

Britain's butterflies Populations of eight species, including the Common Blue,
left, are at an all-time low, thanks to last year's rainy summer.

The Office of Government Commerce There was much sniggering at the typographical
double-entendre revealed by turning its new pounds 14,000 OGC logo through 90
degrees.

Clean energy The Scottish Executive refused permission for a huge wind farm on
the isle of Lewis, on environmental grounds.

Father Adelir de Carli On Thursday the Brazilian air force called off its search
for the priest who was blown out to sea on Sunday suspended from 1,000 party
balloons in a fund-raising stunt.

IT WAS A GOOD WEEK FOR...

GO FIGURE

* 94: cases of personal data losses reported to the Information Commissioner
since HM Revenue & Customs mislaid details of 25m child benefit claimants last
November; 3: cases in which the lost data was recovered.

* pounds 17m: combined annual income of three well known charities for (mostly
female) victims of domestic violence; pounds 20m: annual income of the Donkey
Sanctuary.

* pounds 750,000: price put on Britain's most valuable tree, a 6ft-wide plane
tree in Berkeley Square, under a new scheme to protect mature trees from
developers.

* 82,319: new record for prisoners in British jails.

* 8,000: schools closed by Thursday's teachers' strike.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 26, 2008 Saturday
                              Correction Appended

Saturday: Comment & Debate: Drown out their discord: I rocked against racism 30
years ago. Now the far right is wooing voters we have to do it again

BYLINE: Tom Robinson

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 597 words


Three decades ago an unwelcome shock hit the London flat I shared with five
people. The 1977 GLC elections were under way, and through the letterbox came -
not three, but four manifestos. For the first time we had the choice of voting
left, centre, right or Nazi.

Nowadays the punk era is seen as a raucous and faintly insanitary blip on the
continuum of pop history, but I remember it as a time of flux and desperate
uncertainty. There were riots, brutality and a government falling apart at the
seams, while the disaffected, dispossessed and extremists of every hue were
seizing their chance for a piece of the action. Just because things happened to
pan out one particular way doesn't mean any of it was inevitable.

The National Front's bid for electoral respectability kicked us all up the arse
sufficiently to demonstrate against it in Wood Green and Lewisham. It also
galvanised tens of thousands of people to descend on London for Rock Against
Racism's famous Carnival Against the Nazis in 1978.

Punk rock's biggest ally - and a key influence on Joe Strummer and John Lydon -
had been roots reggae. Nowhere was this better reflected than at Rock Against
Racism concerts where bands such as Misty In Roots, Matumbi and the Cinnamons
would headline on the same bill as aspiring punk and new wave bands, including
my own.

For those of us who grew up with the music of James Brown, Aretha Franklin,
Stevie Wonder and Bob Marley, the proposition of Rock Against Racism was
blindingly obvious. It successfully squared the circle of appealing to a mass
audience while remaining genuinely of the left. RAR's sharp visuals and focused
message wouldn't be equalled again until Live Aid.

On April 30 1978 we marched from Trafalgar Square to Hackney, east London
meeting only token opposition on the way. Behind the scaffolding stage in
Victoria Park there was no VIP area, corporate hospitality or even a changing
room. RAR had hired a big enough PA to reach 20,000 people; on the day, four
times that number turned up.

Looking back, I'm proud my band shared a stage with the Clash but also with
perhaps the finest British band of the late 70s, Steel Pulse. The precision
rhythms and razorsweet vocals of their single Ku Klux Klan - performed in white
robes and hoods - provided an iconic moment for the day.

It would be nice to think that the Anti-Nazi League and Victoria Park carnival
played their part in the NF's dismal showing at the 1979 election and subsequent
implosion. For whatever reasons, Britain has become a much more tolerant society
- at least superficially - over the intervening decades.

But this week an unwelcome shock hit the London semi I share with my family. The
2008 elections for London mayor are under way, and through the letterbox came a
32-page booklet on this year's candidates and parties. Alongside Paddick,
Livingstone and Johnson are an illiberal sprinkling of political chancers such
as The English Democrats, Christian Choice and Ukip.

In pride of place at the front of the pamphlet is the British National party.
"Remember London the way it used to be - clean, friendly and safe?" asks its
candidate. Hmmm - when was that exactly? Certainly not the 1970s. Jefferson's
aphorism about the price of freedom being eternal vigilance may be a truism, but
it's never been truer.

And that's why the 30th anniversary of the Carnival Against the Nazis actually
matters. Since 2002 the RAR mantle has been worn by Love Music Hate Racism,
which is staging an enormous event spread over three stages tomorrow in Victoria
Park.

Rock Against Racism lives on.

www.lmhrcarnival.com

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: May 1, 2008 Thursday



CORRECTION: The reggae band that headlined on the same bill as punk and new wave
bands at the Rock Against Racism concerts was the Cimarons, rather than the
Cinnamons (Drown out their discord, page 31, April 26).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 26, 2008 Saturday

Britain - Mayor defends East End cash bonanza

LENGTH: 278 words


London Mayor Ken Livingstone welcomed the the city's winning bid for the
Olympics on Thursday night for "putting money into the East End that should have
been put in decades ago."

In a discussion, filmed for BBC television's Question Time with rivals Lib Dem
Brian Paddick and Tory Boris Johnson, presenter David Dimbleby said to Mr
Livingstone: "You make it sound like a con trick."

But Mr Livingstone rose to the challenge by declaring: "It was. The East End
will now come to life and I'm delighted we did it and I'm delighted the
government is putting in money that should have been put in decades ago."

And he insisted that the shortfall in the Olympics budget will not be paid by
the London taxpayer and that it would cost them no more than 38p a week.

Meanwhile, Mr Johnson denied a comment from Labour minister Hazel Blears that he
would appeal to BNP and UKIP supporters, claiming: "If elected, I'll be pursuing
policies that will reflect the glorious diversity of London."

Mr Livingstone intervened: "They (the BNP) don't want him, they just want to get
rid of me," before noting that racist and anti-semitic crimes have halved under
his watch.

But Mr Paddick challenged the mayor for supposedly likening a Jewish journalist
to a nazi concentration camp guard.

Mr Livingstone replied: "I've always been rude to all journalists. I'm going to
treat a Jewish or black journalist the same way."

The candidates were also asked if their campaigns would be better off if they
were independent of their political parties and party leaders.

Mr Livingstone said: "I managed to win my first mayoral election as an
independent and had virtually the same vote as a Labour candidate."

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 26, 2008 Saturday 4:20 AM GMT

Skeletons in the Commission cupboard

BYLINE: By Bruno Waterfield

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 920 words


It is funny how ghosts can return to haunt Brussels corridors. Jos Manuel
Barroso was dogged by problems with his line up when he first became European
Commission President in 2004. Now in 2008, 18 months before the end of his
Commission's term everything is going a bit pear shaped again.

Justice at last for Jacques Barrot

Jacques Barrot, the French Commission Vice-President, formerly responsible for
transport has been switched to the European Union's top justice and security job
after Franco Frattini jumped ship. Mr Barrot, as experienced followers of
Brussels and its works will remember, has rather unusual justice experience
from the wrong side of the dock.

To recap, Mr Barroso, literally as his Commission was voted through by the
European Parliament, was hit by the revelation, made by Ukip leader Nigel Farage
(his researcher got the dirt with a simple Google search), that Mr Barrot had
been involved in a French political party funding scandal. The kind of thing
that, especially when the EU and justice commissioners are hectoring the
Balkans, Bulgaria and Romania, might well be called corruption.

Mr Barrot was in 2000 convicted by a French court of "abuse of confidence" in a
party funding case involving the Centre des dmocrates sociaux (CDS), an
organisation he headed. The CDS was a precursor to Jacques Chirac's, and now
Nicolas Sarkozy's, Union pour un Mouvement Populaire (UMP)  and Mr Barrot
remains close to the Elyse.

But the eight month suspended jail sentence he received was automatically wiped
clean at the moment of judgment by a 1995 presidential amnesty  introduced by
the incoming Mr Chirac.

Mr Barrot was then classed as innocent, and thus it must be noted, is perfectly
fit for public office, under French law. Rather unfairly, under a pardon, he was
also unable to appeal the case, during which he protested his innocence. He was
judged in a French court under collective rather than personal responsibility
for the finances.

The case was not unusual: until 1991 there was no legal system governing party
political finance in France. The 90s saw French politicians from across
political parties investigated and in some cases convicted  often for offences
relating to before 1991.

At the time Mr Barroso, who had been forced to reject an Italian justice
commissioner after opposition from Euro-MPs, was doubly embarrassed. He did not
know, and was not told, that the Frenchman he has chosen to be his
Vice-President had a brush with la loi. He had also considered him for the EU's
justice job, which Paris had wanted.

Here's the rub. As Transport Commissioner, Mr Barrot was safely out of way of
any decisions related to his past (one official, a master of understatement,
described it as a "dark grey period in French history"). Now, with his new
portfolio he will be in the thick of it, as we can see from the Commission's own
justicewebsite.

"The Commission... calls for the detection and punishment of all acts of
corruption, confiscation of illicit proceeds and reduction of the opportunities
for corrupt practices through the establishment of transparent and accountable
public administration standards," it says.

With his own skeletons in the cupboard, with what moral authority will Mr Barrot
be able to take up this policy? This assessmentof the man does not bode well.
Euro-MPs may be asking him tricky questions when he appears before them in the
near future.

Mr Barrot got the job partly because Silvio Berlusconi, Italy's new PM, is
messing around nominating a successor to Mr Frattini (he was still playing games
on Friday). His likely choice, Antonio Tajani, a Forza Italia Euro-MP, might
have hada rough ride at the hands of his colleagues if his views on gay rights
and immigration had jarred during a mandatory hearing with the politically
correct and Berlusconi hating Parliament.

But most importantly, France has long eyed the justice job and many of the
issues, immigration and internal security, are to be big headline topics for
Nicolas Sarkozy's turn at the EU's six month rotating presidency in the second
half of this year. Paris is happy.

Italy and Mr Berlusconi will be pretty chuffed with transport for the most
convenient of reasons: the commission is to play a critical role in the Alitalia
case.

As I observed back in February, Commission job vacancies raise some awkward
questions over legitimacy and the latest round of changes is a case in point.
Poor Mr Barroso faces more of the same.

Not only has the Commission been forbidden from making "provocations" (that
means proposals) during ratification of that Treaty, bad news for Mr Barroso who
wants to come back for a second term in 2009, but other Commissioners have
either disappeared (where has the nudistGunter Verheugen gone?) or are on the
way out.

Mr Barroso faces a new reshuffle when the Treaty enters into force. The new EU
"foreign minister", now High Representative, is to enter the Commission as a
Vice President. It is likely to be Javier Solana, who may get a temporary
placing in the job before someone takes it over for two and a half years in
November 2009. When Mr Solana comes in, out goes Spanish Monetary Affairs
Commissioner Joaqun Almunia (each member state is only one commissioner) and Mr
Barroso is plunged into another reshuffle.

Questions over who gets the EU's top jobs, and their legitimacy, are going to be
with us for quite some time.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 25, 2008 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 663 words


"EU wipes England off the map - as Gordon Brown flies the flag of St George over
Downing Street," thundered the Daily Mail. "On St George's Day, say goodbye to
England," wept the Telegraph. "Fury at new Euro names for UK regions," said the
Sun. The stories lifted the lid on a dastardly Euro plan to subsume England
within a clutch of "transnational regions". Each would be run by a managing
authority of unelected officials. "Now the Labour government has been caught
red-handed," Tory communities spokesman Eric Pickles said. And funnily enough,
he said similar things two years ago when last the same story, and the same
alleged images of surrender, were peddled to the rightwing journals. "I fear
Eurocrats could literally wipe Britain off the map," he told the Daily Mail in
2006. Prior to the latest reworking of what officials have dubbed "the biggest,
fattest Euromyth ever", the Foreign Office dismissed it as "a ludicrous scare
story, several years old, with no foundation in fact" - but it was trotted out
anyway. Oh well, if the kids like sherbert, they may as well have it.

So what about that Bob Spink then? One minute he was a Tory MP, the next he was
the honourable member for Ukip. And within 24 hours, the first split. For he is
against Gordon's attempt to secure a 42-day detention period for terrorist
suspects - the Ukip mothership is for it. The end of the beginning. Maybe the
beginning of the end.

If things don't go well for Obama, might he regret his decision to have waffles
for breakfast? His first problem was that he didn't actually get to eat the said
meal. A pesky journalist insisted on asking him questions about ex-president
Carter's talks with Hamas. "Why is it that, like, I can't just eat my waffle,"
he said. Neither did he respond to the journalist, prompting accusations that he
dodges hard questions. He also opened up a commercial opportunity, for the
uneaten waffle and sausage later re-emerged on eBay and it sold for only 99
cents, outperformed therefore by Britney Spear's half-eaten sandwich, which sold
for $500 last year, and a corn on the cob nibbled by David Beckham, which went
for $3,000. Perhaps there'll be more enthusiasm for the commemorative painting
now at auction, entitled Memories of Barack Obama's Breakfast. Maybe next time
he'll stick to yoghurt.

Turmoil at PricewaterhouseCoopers, where postcards circulate upon which staff
are encouraged to praise or chastise their colleagues. They love this stuff in
the HR department. Less so elsewhere. Some staff now refuse to communicate by
any other means, the favoured phrases being "must try harder", "inspirational",
"good work" and the call to arms: "your responsibility". And then, of course:
"Whose ridiculous idea was this?"

But then HR types see the world differently, never mind how they see themselves.
Last year, as the flood waters rose and most lauded the emergency services,
Personnel Magazine was "Honouring the HR heroes", saying: "A month on from the
floods crisis, and stories of HR heroism are beginning to trickle out. In
organisations as diverse as Severn Trent Water, Vodafone and Gloucestershire
county council, we hear how HR leaders valiantly kept their heads above water
while their businesses were submerged." There was too little recognition then.
Perhaps there is now. But in the rising of the sun and in its going down, we, at
least, remember them.

This from a classified ad in the Evening Standard: "Cost estimators" wanted for
the 2012 Olympics. They supply the fag packet. All you need is a pen. Hurry,
hurry, hurry.

But then it is the greatest show on earth - with millions spent on every
eventuality. And the preparations in Beijing are just as exhaustive. Yesterday
the surrealist Rainbow George revealed his bet with William Hill, at odds of
3,000-1, that "aliens of extra- terrestrial origin will appear during the
televised section of the opening of the 2008 Olympics in Beijing". Odds on the
Chinese will beat them up.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 25, 2008 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Help to 10p tax losers fails to satisfy

BYLINE: Karen Fletcher

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 94 words


*The choice in our local elections is New Labour, Tory or Ukip. Not much of a
choice - rightwing, very rightwing or extremely rightwing. I put a peg on my
nose and voted Labour on my postal voting form and sealed the envelope. On the
TV news tonight - following some vague concession for those under 25 or between
60 and 65 - the pusillanimous rebel Labour MPs have caved in on the increased
taxes on the lowest-paid. I am incensed. I've torn the envelope into a thousand
pieces, stamped on it and thrown it on to the compost.

Karen Fletcher

North Anston, South Yorkshire

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday

Political briefing: Another maverick defects. So what?

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 549 words


Maverick MPs who defect from one party to another tend to be just that:
mavericks. Bob Spink, whose long-running battle with Essex Tories yesterday
prompted him - contrary to assurances just a month ago - to become Ukip's first
Westminster MP, is no exception.

Spink is against abortion and drugs, homosexuality, sex education and Europe. He
favours capital punishment and once said of immigration policy: "What bit of
'send them back' don't you understand Mr Blair?" But he was also the only Tory
MP last year to vote with Labour's Frank Field to retain the 10p rate of income
tax for the kind of lower-paid workers he represents on Canvey Island and
Benfleet. A self-made working class Tory with a PhD, he came up the hard way.

But fellow MPs are tough on defectors. Labour and Lib Dems shudder at a
right-wing Essex populist who lost his seat in 1997, but won it back against the
tide in 2001, boosting his majority to 8,201 (18%) in 2005. Tory colleagues say
he used to be quietly sensible and ignored, but changed as he and party activist
chums in Essex savagely fell out.

"They're all mad," says a senior MP. Spink was set to be deselected, lost the
whip (he claims he resigned it) and was welcomed yesterday as "hard working and
deeply principled" by Ukip leader Nigel Farage. Not even the excitable Tory
bloggers could get very excited. They had seen it coming. "Never fall out with
your local party," is an iron rule of politics.

But does it matter that Ukip now has a voice in the Commons? Probably not.
Ukip's "quit Europe" position is strong enough in the Conservative ranks to have
forced David Cameron and William Hague to back referendum calls on the Lisbon
Treaty, a campaign which Tory donor Stuart Wheeler took to court yesterday.
Unlike Ukip the Tories do not promise to reopen the issue if they win in
2009-10.

In any case, local Tories campaigning for the May 1 council elections hope to
profit from the perception that Ukip is on the slide, sullied by scandal and
divided. In 2004 it won 16% and 12 seats in the Euro-elections. In 2005 it
averaged 2.8% in seats it fought, up on the 2.1% it won in 2001, but Jimmy
Goldsmith averaged 3.1% in 1997. The stardust briefly provided by Robert
Kilroy-Silk's membership ended in the usual micro-party personality split, a
breakthrough opportunity lost.

The unkind truth is that whatever the motive - lofty or low - MPs who lose the
party whip and defectors (six since 2005) rarely matter except in terms of
parliamentary maths and public perceptions of disunity. Right-wing Empire
Loyalists or left-wing Bevanites of the 50s usually rejoined the party or faded
away. Even the 28 Labour-turned-SDP MPs who thought they were "breaking the
mould" of two-party politics in 1981-82 lost their seats, mostly in 1983.

Only John Horan remains an MP: today a Tory one. At least he became a minister,
a better reward than the peerage more often dangled before defectors. The odds
are poor: Reg Prentice and Alan Howarth became ministers, then peers. Most
don't, though Shaun Woodward, Tony Blair's most important pawn capture (1999),
ended up in cabinet, a lucky fluke.

All that is above Bob Spink's pay grade. He broke the iron rule. "Bob says he's
not changed, it's the party that's changed. We're happy with that message,"
beams a Cameron loyalist.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday
                                 3 Star Edition

GOING DOWN

BYLINE: KEVIN MAGUIRE

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 23 words


TORY rat Bob Spink defected to UKIP but the Euro nutters are still heading for
the rocks. The Essex MP should start looking for a new job now.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            April 23, 2008 Wednesday

Britain - First UKIP MP

LENGTH: 38 words


The UK Independence Party gained its first MP on Tuesday after former Tory Bob
Spink joined its ranks.

A "disenchanted" Mr Spink resigned the Tory whip last month in a row over
apparent efforts by his local party to deselect him.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      April 23, 2008 Wednesday 8:02 PM GMT

Whipped: Wednesday 23rd April

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 184 words


Full coverage of UK Politics                                                The
best from the blogosphere and beyond. 1. On St. George's Day, Simon Heffer
declares the Union "as good as over"...

Simon Heffer declares the Union is over

2. ...whilst Jack Straw calls for the St George's flag to be reclaimed from the
far Right.

3. Fraser Nelson reckons the impending U-turn on the 10p tax rate won't wash
with disillusioned Labour voters.

4. Paul Waugh at the Standard has breaking news about non-declaration of shares
by Boris Johnson.

5. Ann Treneman watches the Commons remember Gwyneth Dunwoody.

6. Tory MP Graham Brady writes in the Telegraph about the economic and
environmental dangers of the Government's aviation duty.

7. Watch Bob Spink explain on Sky News why he joined UKIP.

8. Listen to Nick Clegg squirm when challenged over his student Tory membership
today.

9. David Miliband blogs about meeting a suicide bomber.

10. Toby Harnden says Clinton's victory in Pennsylvania changes nothing.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                           April 23, 2008, Wednesday

Bob Spink

BYLINE: Hugo Rifkind

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 36 words


A month ago (March 20): Bob Spink, the whipless former Tory, e-mails Nadine
Dorries, his fellow MP, to say: "What is this nonsense about me joining UKIP?
How do they make it up?"

Yesterday (April 22): Bob Spink joins UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday

Tory defector will give UKIP a voice in the Commons

BYLINE: Nick McDermott, Daniel Martin

SECTION: 3RD; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 230 words


THE UK Independence Party will gain its first seat in Parliament today after a
former Tory MP agreed to join the party.

Bob Spink, the MP for Castle Point in Essex, who was expelled from the
Conservatives last month, will represent the Eurosceptic group after becoming
'increasingly disappointed' with David Cameron's leadership.

UKIP leader Nigel Farage said Mr Spink was a 'deeply principled' man.

Mr Spink said: 'I am delighted to join the UKIP team, helping to fight for
Britain's interests in Europe and for better policy on the issues that really
matter.' Mr Spink, a self-made millionaire, had been involved in a long dispute
with his local Tory association, which twice tried to remove him. Sources said
grassroots Tories felt the married father-offour had 'brought the association
into disrepute' after he began a relationship with a councillor.

Last night Mr Spink, 59, said: 'I have been increasingly disappointed with the
Tory Party's failure to be honest with the public on a wide range of issues like
pensions, crime, immigration and defence.

'Dishonesty over the EU constitution is the Tories' greatest failure.

They heap criticism on other parties, but refuse to remove the constitution if
they ever get power.

'The public see this as opportunistic and hypocritical, but sadly, it is typical
of Westminster.

It is little wonder the public hold politicians in such contempt.'

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Delighted: Bob Spink

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 22, 2008 Tuesday

Tory defector becomes Ukip's first MP

BYLINE: Robert Winnett and Rosa Prince

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 440 words


THE UK Independence Party will today announce it has gained its first member of
Parliament after a former Conservative MP agreed to join the party just nine
days before the local elections.

Bob Spink, the MP for Castle Point in Essex, said he was "increasingly
disappointed'' with the Conservative

Party, which expelled him last month. The defection is

being heralded as a coup by Ukip.

Speaking to The Daily Telegraph, Mr Spink said last night: "I am delighted to
join the Ukip team, helping to fight for Britain's interests in Europe and for
better policy on the issues that really matter to people.

"I have been increasingly disappointed with the Tory Party's failure to be
honest with the public on a wide range of issues like pensions, crime,
immigration and defence.

"Dishonesty over the EU constitution is the Tories' greatest failure.

"They heap criticism on other parties, but refuse to remove the constitution if
they ever get power.

"The public see this as opportunistic and hypocritical, but sadly, it is typical
of Westminster politics.

"It is little wonder the public hold politicians in such contempt.''

Mr Spink was welcomed to Ukip by Nigel Farage, the party's leader. "I am
delighted to welcome the hard-working and deeply principled Bob Spink as Ukip's
first member of Parliament,'' he said.

Lord Willoughby de Broke, a Ukip peer, added: "I am thrilled that Ukip now has a
representative in the House of Commons.

"I look forward to working with him to further Ukip's programme of leaving the
European Union.''

Mr Spink is a controversial political figure who fell out with David Cameron
after problems with his local constituency party.

Senior Conservative sources insisted last night that they were relaxed about Mr
Spink defecting and said Ukip were "welcome to him''.

A Tory insider said: "You won't find many tears being shed over this in the
Conservative Party - more like the sound of popping corks.''

Ukip presented a serious electoral threat to the Conservatives three years ago,
when the party finished third in the 2004 European elections after recruiting
Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former chat show host.

However, Mr Kilroy-Silk quit the party amid acrimony just nine months later and
founded his own party, Veritas. Ukip went on to lose its deposit in more than
450 seats at the 2005 general election. Mr Cameron's relatively Euro-sceptic
views are thought to have helped to stop Ukip's appeal spreading among other
Conservative supporters.

Mr Spink was first elected to Parliament in 1992.

He lost his seat in 1997, but regained it in 2001, and Ukip sources said they
are confident he will retain his seat at the next general election.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 22, 2008 Tuesday 7:41 PM GMT

Bob Spink becomes first UKIP MP

BYLINE: By Mick Fealty

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 402 words


Full coverage of Politics UK                                              An
intriguing little coda to yesterday's charm offensive from David Cameron is
today's defection. Not Labour to Tory, but (former) Tory to UKIP.

Former Tory MP Bob Spink has defected to UKIP

All the (albeit light-hearted) speculation begins to look like a nice little
spoiler action there. Bob Spink as we have previously noted, was hotly tipped to
become UKIP's first presence in the Commons: ironically they are more of a
presence in Brussels. In the heart of the beast, so to speak.

The period between Spink's resignation of the Tory whip and becoming a full
blown UKIP MP may have had more to do with UKIP's own concerns over the precise
nature of his departure than sorting out any ideological conflicts of interest.
One MP may not have an impact in terms of the legislative process, but handled
well, it could give the UKIP a visibility it often lacks in the UK.

For instance, the Yorkshire Post's 60 to 1 interrogation of David Cameron
mentions a fast ball question from a UKIP representative, last week but neither
the question, nor the answer.

According to UKIP the exchange went something like this:

Q: Why would you rather be in Europe rather than govern, why don't you want a
landslide victory that that policy would give you?

A: The vast majority of the British people want to stay in the EU. From the very
next day our businesses will flounder and be unable to export to the EU.

Hmmm... There's probably a lot of truth in the first, though, it's not clear how
the second might happen. And it's not exactly in line with the
referendum-friendly stance of the autumn.

Bob Spink is no George Galloway. But his position as an MP could give the party
more opportunity to ask awkward questions in the run up to next year's EU
elections. And perhaps give local activists sufficient confidence to plan for a
victory or two in Westminster in 2009/10.

However, the momentum appears to be with Cameron for the moment, and the Labour
party's apparent disarray over the dumping of former flagship policies (like the
CGT taper and the 10% tax rate) will do nothing to halt that onward march.

Still, things could start to get even more interesting on the right of British
politics.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 22, 2008, Tuesday

Expelled Tory backbencher joins UKIP

BYLINE: Lucy Bannerman

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 171 words


LONDON Bob Spink, the MP for Castle Point in Essex will become the first member
of Parliament to represent the UK Independence Party (Lucy Bannerman writes).

Party leaders welcomed the defection of the former Conservative MP, who was
expelled from the party last month after falling out with David Cameron over
"irregularities" in his local constituency.

Mr Spink said his move to the anti-European Union UKIP - nine days before the
local elections - had been motivated by the Conservative Party's "failure" on
issues including crime, immigration and pensions.

He said: "Dishonesty over the EU constitution is the Tories' greatest failure."

His defection was hailed as a coup by Nigel Farage, UKIP's leader, and Lord
Willoughby de Broke, a party peer, who said: "I am thrilled that UKIP now has a
representative in the House of Commons."

Mr Spink was embroiled in the MPs' expenses row earlier this year after it was
disclosed that he employed his former wife, his daughter and his former
partner's daughter on his Commons payroll.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             April 21, 2008 Monday

National: Football passions may clash with politics in Liverpool: In the latest
in his profiles of key battles, Michael White weighs up the chances of the Lib
Dems losing control, and how that might affect Everton's plans for a new stadium

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 702 words


Half a mile from Liverpool's rival stadiums, an Everton supporter speaks for
much of the city: "Politics, what's politics? What we're interested in is
football." But if the Liberal Democrats lose control of the council on May 1,
and opponents of Everton's proposed new stadium win a lot of votes in nearby
Kirkby, politics and football may clash.

By general consent Liverpool is a much better place than 10 or 15 years ago,
when the clash between Thatcherism and the Militant-led Labour council was fresh
in scousers' memories. Politics then was as lively as an Everton-Liverpool
derby. It's on the up again.

Ugly pockets of poverty and unemployment persist amid the new housing
association homes which punctuate the Victorian red-brick terraces in Toxteth
and Walton. But it is easier to spot the big money. Brash posters and flags
proclaim "Liverpool European Capital of Culture 2008" throughout the city.
Downtown there are cranes and scaffolding, high-rise luxury flats, offices and
swish hotels rising to 40 storeys above the old docks.

Behind the Liver building, penthouse suites are going for £1m or more. Round the
corner, the Duke of Westminster is poised to open phase one of the Grosvenor
Estate's £1bn Liverpool One shopping centre. Coutts bank has opened a branch.

Are voters grateful to the Lib Dems, who restored some normality to civic
politics after ousting Labour in 1998? Of course not, this is Britain 2008. Even
the long-running programme to replace ancient sewers and drains - "the big dig"
- annoys voters fed up with holes in so many roads. People talk of the "two
Liverpools", rich and poor.

And besides, the Lib Dems have had their share of trouble with the standards
board, and policy failure too. The popular Mathew Street music festival had to
be abandoned last year.

As community projects close to fill gaps in the Euro-cultural budget, voters on
estates also ask why it is costing so much when their neighbourhood regeneration
remains on hold. Council tax this year is going up 4.9%.

The Audit Commission recently declared Liverpool a one-star financial basket
case, and there are familiar worries about immigration and crime in a city where
uneasy memories persist of Rhys Jones, shot dead at age 11 in a Croxteth pub car
park. Rhys's sports coach, Steve Geoghegan, is standing there as a Lib Dem on
May 1. It is unlikely to be enough to save council leader Warren Bradley's town
hall regime from slipping into no overall control.

Labour, which has been winning byelections against the Brownite national trend,
even hopes to become the largest party again - back in power. Party HQ in London
has high hopes here.

But the Tories too are fighting to recover a slender toehold, now the 2004 Ukip
bubble has burst. The BNP is contesting 11 wards. Uncertainty and voter apathy
could suddenly make a tough-talking local councillor called Steve Radford
important as the man who can deliver a majority to either of the big parties
courting him: Labour or Lib Dem. "I've been approached by both sides," admits
Radford, one of those Liberals who rejected the Lib Dem merger of 1987. A
well-respected councillor for 28 years, his four-strong group outpolls local
Tories and Greens.

For his support, Radford will demand sound financial control, an end to building
on Liverpool's Victorian parks and a tougher stand by the council against big
building firms. That is where football fans may have to pay attention.

If the First for Kirkby candidates, who oppose cash-strapped Everton's plans to
move from Goodison Park to a new 50,000-seat stadium in Kirkby, do well against
Labour on May 1, those plans may have to be called in. Liverpool FC's plans to
rebuild Anfield next door in one of those Victorian parks are more advanced, but
hobbled by the feud between the club's American owners.

In a city where religious sectarianism has long since given way to football
sectarianism between its Premiership rivals, some citizens think the discarded
ground-sharing option would be best for the city and its football fans, if not
for club boards. Knocking heads together could be just the right sort of
challenge for strong civic leadership in a city bouncing back from near-terminal
decline just a generation ago.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 20, 2008

Independence MEP expenses probe

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 51 words


The UK Independence party MEP Tom Wise is being investigated over allegations
that he embezzled tens of thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money. Police are
looking into claims, which appeared in The Sunday Times last year, that he
claimed £ 36,000 a year in the name of a researcher paid a fraction of that sum.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 April 13, 2008

Observer Magazine: Up front: DID I SAY THAT? BORIS JOHNSON: London mayoral
candidate, 43

SECTION: OBSERVER MAGAZINE PAGES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 341 words


ON CULTURE

I don't see why people are so snooty about Channel Five. It has some respectable
documentaries about the Second World War. It also devotes considerable airtime
to investigations into lap-dancing, and other related and vital subjects (2002)

ON BEING A CANDIDATE FOR CLWYD SOUTH WEST

They wanted me to get up at the absolute crack of dawn to go milking. In
retrospect I probably should have done it. I do know which end of a cow to pull,
roughly speaking - if you see what I mean (1997)

ON DRUGS

I can't remember what my line on drugs is. What's my line on drugs? (2005)

ON HIS FIRST JOB (AT A MANAGEMENT CONSULTANCY)

Try as I might, I could not look at an overhead projection of a growth profit
matrix and stay conscious (2004)

ON FAMILY RECONCILIATION AFTER HIS AFFAIR

Put on a good Christmas and it'll be all right (2004)

ON EUROPE

I can hardly condemn UKIP as a bunch of boss-eyed, foam-flecked euro hysterics,
when I have been sometimes not far short of boss-eyed, foam-flecked hysteria
myself (2004)

ON JAMES BLUNT

If she's so beautiful, stop standing there in your T-shirt and floppy fringe,
and hush your hopeless falsetto crooning. Go out and get her (2005)

ON HIS PROSPECTS

The awful truth is that people do take me seriously. . . you must consider the
possibility that underneath it all there really may lurk a genuine buffoon
(2007)

My chances of becoming Prime Minister are about as good as the chances of my
being reincarnated as an olive (2004)

ON VOTING CONSERVATIVE

It's an attested fact that under Conservative governments the quality of living
of the British people has immeasurably improved, leading to better denticians,
higher calcium consumption. . . leading inexorably to superior mammary glands
(2005)

ON HIS JOURNALISM

The highest moment [was] when Joe Strummer sent me a letter saying how much he'd
admired a column I'd written, about hunting, funnily enough (2005)

ON OBESITY

Whatever Jamie Oliver says, McDonald's are incredibly nutritious and, as far as
I can tell, crammed full of vital nutrients and rigid with goodness (2005)


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                             April 13, 2008 Sunday

Brown facing loss of 200 council seats as Jowell warns of rebellion over tax
Labour strategists fear bleak May Day with the prospect of a slump to 28pc of
the vote in local elections

BYLINE: MELISSA KITE Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 653 words


GORDON BROWN is braced for the loss of hundreds of council seats in local
elections on May 1, senior Labour insiders have said.

Party strategists fear that Labour will lose at least 200 seats to the Tories
and Liberal Democrats and end up with just a 28 per cent share of the vote. The
dire assessment comes amid fresh signs of internal strife, with Tessa Jowell,
the veteran Blairite cabinet minister, hinting openly at unrest.

The Olympics minister said Mr Brown should reconsider his decision to double
income tax for low-paid workers if it proved to be unfair. She said the Prime
Minister should take "very seriously'' a threatened back-bench revolt over the
abolition of the 10p tax band, which threatens to explode in the week of the
elections. "Like any responsive government, if you find that in practice you
create perverse effects, then you have to respond to that,'' Miss Jowell said.

Another senior minister last night acknowledged the difficulties facing Mr Brown
as his first big electoral test loomed.

Hazel Blears, the Secretary of State for Communities and head of Labour's local
elections campaign, told The Sunday Telegraph: "There's no doubt that these are
a tough set of mid-term elections for Labour. Of course, a lot will come down to
local factors, which is why we are running energetic, local campaigns across the
country with local pledges to improve people's lives in their communities.

"The Tories will be ploughing money into their campaigns. But we're fired up and
will be pounding the pavements until polling day to get our message across.
Cameron needs to show he can get real support in the North of England and Wales,
beyond his political comfort zone in the shires. Not just a few gains here or
there.''

Miss Blears also admitted that the London mayoral contest, between Labour's Ken
Livingstone and the Conservative candidate Boris Johnson, was on a knife edge.
"The London mayoral will be very close, given the resources the Tories are
ploughing into the capital. Success for Boris Johnson will depend on attracting
support in second preferences from BNP and Ukip supporters, I am afraid.''

Aides later said Miss Blears had not meant to suggest that Mr Johnson was
setting out to attract BNP votes.

An aide said the party was expecting Labour losses on May 1 to be heavy. "We are
expecting a 200-seat loss. In the South and pockets of the North there will be
losses to the Tories. In the North and Wales there will be losses to the Libs.''

The most damaging Labour losses are expected to include control of Sheffield
council, which could fall to the Liberal Democrats, and Bury, which the Tories
are tipped to take.

Conservatives described the campaign as "trench warfare'' with major battles
across the country for relatively small gains. Only 4,500 seats are up for
grabs, in 159 councils, compared with last year when 12,000 seats were
contested.

However the gains and losses are still seen as crucial because they will signify
national political changes. If the Tories make gains in the North, for example,
it will be seen as a vindication of David Cameron's attempt to reach out beyond
traditional Conservative territory.

The Tories, who are already the largest party of local government, predict that
they will only take only about 80 extra seats because they are starting from
such a high base. However they are hopeful of some significant gains which will
show that they have "got traction'' in new territory.

Eric Pickles, the Tory local elections co-ordinator, said: "We are confident
that we will move forward and get traction in places like the North-East and
Yorkshire.

"We are buoyed up because we have got 100 per cent fielding of candidates in
Yorkshire and we are across the 40 per cent barrier in Wales. In the North-East
we have got people prepared to stand as Conservatives again. We see that as a
very good sign. We now have an activist base that we didn't have two years
ago.''

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 12, 2008 Saturday

Bad science: Arbitrary decisions on additives

BYLINE: Ben Goldacre

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 743 words


If you put aside the fact that most of the people who campaign against food
additives should be taken out and shot for crimes against the enlightenment,
even a stopped clock shows the right time twice a day, and the evidence overall
genuinely shows that some food additives probably aren't too good for you.

Perhaps there should be a special body for issuing warnings on the rare
occasions when scares aren't bogus.

The study that the stories were based on this week was, genuinely, a double
blind randomised controlled trial in which a large number of children - around
300 - were given drinks containing colourings and a preservative, or not, and it
was done properly. The children were a fairly repre sentative sample of normal
kids, people didn't know which drink they were getting, and the exposure to
additives was similar to what you'd get in the real world if you ate bad food,
and the kids' behaviour was measured properly, and there was a small difference
between additives and placebo, and it was both statistically significant (which
is to say, probably not just a chance finding) and also fairly clinically
significant (which is to say, it wasn't just a genuine but trivial finding).

That's the research. Entirely separate is what you choose to do about it.
Speaking as someone with no interest in making laws, I've always been amused by
how arbitrary the process is.

For example, the research itself didn't come out this week, the Food Standards
agency knew about the results in March 2007, and the research was fully
published in the Lancet last September. The news story is the FSA saying six
artificial colourings should be phased out, and this is getting more news
coverage than the publication of the experimental data itself. We clearly set a
lot of store by these decisions.

So how are the judgment calls made? Last September, after they'd already been
thinking about it for six months, the FSA said something rather different
("avoid additives if your kids is hyperactive"). Now, after a bit more of a
think, they call for a ban. Fair enough. A month ago the European Food Safety
Authority gave their report, on the exact same evidence, and they say the
evidence of harm is poor, and nothing should change.

After six hours of bleary-eyed amazement poring through all the relevant
documents, I can only say that these decisions appear to be entirely random. The
EFSA, for example, have produced three PDF reports full of technical material,
including a massive statistical re-analysis of the original data (kindly
provided by the original researchers) which they harp on about enormously, but
which they conclude changes basically nothing. For an organisation representing
the interests of 700 million people, well-funded by Ukip voters' tax money, and
with a massive advisory panel, they also make some slightly bizarre criticisms
of the science.

For example, they worry about the GHA, the outcome measure used in the study,
because it's "novel" with "unknown clinical relevance", although the GHA is
simply an aggregate score of a few other outcome measures which are well known
and validated. They give dubious weight to a 25-year-old meta-analysis with
known flaws. It's all a bit disagreeable, but it's not quite enough to explain
the disparity of view with the FSA. Meanwhile the FSA have produced a lengthy
appendix (annexe II of document FSA- 08/04/04 if you're interested) detailing
the disagreements of interpretation between the UK committee on toxicity and the
EFSA on 14 technical points, but . . . there aren't really any.

I guess these decisions are a mixture of whim and politics. They're vaguely
informed by research, but only partly, and as it goes, this is entirely as it
should be: because it's a complicated world, and things have risks and benefits
beyond the microcosm of a controlled study.

You might really like bright green mushy peas, they might sparkle up your day
like nothing else. And on the other side of things, additives aren't just bad in
a special, toxicological, narrow sense, but also because they are
"facilitators": they allow us to produce rubbish food, preserve it, and make it
more attractive, ultimately producing fat people with quintessentially English
teeth. In those terms additives were always part of a bigger problem of cruddy
lifestyles, and this goes way beyond seven special molecules, a few p-values, a
headline, an easy scapegoat, and some ratings scales. What a gloriously
complicated world.

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       April 11, 2008 Friday 8:50 PM GMT

Doubts about a BNP advance in London

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 350 words


Full coverage of the local elections 2008
Tim Montgomerie of ConservativeHome wrote earlier in the week of his fear that
by uniting publicly to condemn the British National Party, the mainstream London
mayoral candidates were giving the BNP the oxygen of publicity.

Londoners are unlikely to give the BNP a seat

Nonetheless, I was surprised to see the results of yesterday's PHI100 - the
daily snapshot of opinion of a balanced panel of Westminster insiders on
PoliticsHome.

In the second half of his piece reporting the findings, Andrew Rawnsley reveals
that more than half of the panel - 56 per cent in fact - think that the BNP is
likely to win a seat on the London Assembly next month.

No-one is suggesting, as far as I know, that the BNP could win any of the 14
individual constituencies. But to win a seat on the Assembly through the top-up
lists, a party has to command 5 per cent of the London-wide vote.

In 2004, the BNP won 4.7 per cent of the London-wide vote, prompting some to
believe that a small increase on that would now land them an Assembly seat (UKIP
won 2 seats on 8.2 per cent of the vote last time).

But I remain to be convinced.

The BNP result in 2004 was attained on a turnout of 37 per cent,which was up
slightly on an even more derisory 34.3 per cent in 2000.

Yet the one thing I am sure will be true of this GLA election is that turnout
will rise. With a genuinely close contest for the mayoralty which could go
either way, people have a real interest in voting to influence the outcome,
whereas the Livingstone victories at the last two elections have been all but a
foregone conclusion.

Minority parties generally have a small but committed band of followers who have
a higher than average propensity to vote. However, the higher the turnout, the
smaller these groups of voters become as a proportion of the total vote, which
is why I doubt that the BNP will end up getting one in every twenty votes votes
cast on May 1.

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            April 10, 2008 Thursday

BNP seeks to bury antisemitism and gain Jewish votes in Islamophobic campaign:
Backstory

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 142 words


Analysts believe the BNP could make a breakthrough in the May election unless
there is a big turnout. Last time London went to the polls the far-right party
got 4.7% - a few thousand votes short of the 5% needed to get a member on the
London assembly . At the time the UK Independence party , which has since
largely imploded, polled 8.2%, and it is feared many of its supporters may now
transfer their allegiance to the BNP. The electoral system means the BNP, which
has since picked up several councillors in London, needs 5% to get one assembly
member, 8% for two and 11% for three. All three mayoral candidates have
condemned the BNP. Ken Livingstone said yesterday: "We have to get across one
simple fact: there's only one way to stop the BNP, which is by actually going
out to vote against them. A low voter turnout will help the BNP get elected."

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            April 10, 2008, Thursday

BNP man runs the gauntlet as he tries to put his party's stamp on London

BYLINE: Martin Fletcher

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 1396 words


Amid the hue and cry of Ken v Boris, another candidate has gone almost
unnoticed. But Richard Barnbrook could end up having the biggest influence on
the capital's reputation

It is a sunny weekday morning. A clean-cut man with a red and blue rosette
pinned to his neat beige suit walks briskly among the pebbledash semis of
Sheppey Road in Dagenham, East London, pushing leaflets through the doors. It is
a common enough scene three weeks before a local election, but this man arouses
uncommon passions.

His name is Richard Barnbrook. He is the British National Party's candidate for
London mayor and his leaflet features two photographs beneath the headline The
Changing Face of London. The first shows a 1950-ish street party, with lots of
bunting, Union Jacks and smiling white women. "This is the way London used to
be," says the caption. "At ease with itself, friendly, happy and secure. A
capital city with a sense of community values." The second picture shows three
Islamic women in black niqabs, one flicking a V-sign at the photographer.

A young man called Darren emerges from his house and chases after Mr Barnbrook.
He calls the leaflet Nazi propaganda and tells the candidate: "You're like a
cancer." As they remonstrate, an elderly white lady walks up and throws the
leaflet at Mr Barnbrook's feet. "Don't put this s*** through my letterbox," she
hisses.

But others welcome Mr Barnbrook. The yellow-jacketed occupants of a dustcart
give him thumbs-up signs. They complain that their wages have been depressed by
East European immigrants. Harry Row, 51 and unemployed, walks over to say that
he will vote BNP. Asked why, he replies: "All the f****** foreigners over here."

Such exchanges foreshadow the much larger controversy that is likely to erupt
after the votes are counted on May 1, for Boris Johnson's colourful efforts to
unseat Ken Livingstone have largely obscured a significant sub-plot of these
elections. Mr Barnbrook will not win the mayoralty, but he stands a very good
chance of becoming the first BNP member elected to the 25-seat London Assembly -
a breakthrough that would dent the capital's image as a model of diversity, the
image that helped it to win the Olympics.

An Assembly seat would be "the biggest prize the extremist Right has ever won in
British politics," says Tony Travers, a local government expert at the London
School of Economics. There are no neo-fascists on the councils of Berlin, Paris
or New York, he adds. "For London to end up with such a thing would be an
embarrassment and difficult to explain away."

The BNP won 4.8 per cent of the vote in the 2004 assembly elections - a whisker
below the 5 per cent threshold needed to gain a seat. Since then the UK
Independence Party, which won two seats in 2004, has imploded, while the issues
of race, immigration and asylum have become ever more potent. The mainstream
parties are hardly popular, and in recent by-elections the BNP has consistently
won more than 10 per cent of the vote.

Mr Barnbrook believes that his party could take two seats. The anti-fascist
group Searchlight has said the BNP could even win three, and has launched its
"largest, most targeted and sophisticated campaign" to prevent that happening.
That campaign has already enjoyed one success. Last week the BNP withdrew Nick
Eriksen, its London organiser, as the second candidate on its Assembly list
after he was identified as the author of Sir John Bull, a far-Right blog. "I've
never understood why so many men have allowed themselves to be brainwashed by
the feminazi myth machine into believing that rape is such a serious crime," one
entry stated. "Rape is simply sex. Women enjoy sex, so rape cannot be such a
terrible physical ordeal."

Mr Barnbrook said that he considered such views "abhorrent". The 47-year-old
candidate trained as an artist at the Royal Academy. Two years ago he became
opposition leader on Barking and Dagenham council when the BNP won 12 of the 51
seats. Within days newspapers were gleefully describing the homoerotic poetry
and scenes of homosexuality contained in a film called HMS Discovery: A Love
Story that the new poster boy of the homophobic BNP had produced and directed in
1989. He insists that it was art, not pornography.

Mr Barnbrook is now engaged to Simone Clarke, until recently a leading ballerina
at the English National Ballet. They met after The Guardian identified her as a
BNP supporter and he arrived - bearing flowers - at the Coliseum to offer his
backing.

He cannot say when they will marry. She is living in Leeds, and while she is not
campaigning for her fiance, she does appear in his leaflet. "Immigration is out
of control," says Ms Clarke, who has a mixed-race child. "I'm voting BNP because
they're the only party who have the guts to speak out on the issues that count."

In the past two years Mr Barnbrook's council group has railed against the notion
- real or imaginary - that immigrants are jumping the housing queue. It has
attacked council programmes promoting diversity and equal opportunities. It has
tabled motions - all defeated - to ban burkas from public buildings and halal
meat from schools, to mandate daily prayers and the singing of the National
Anthem at schools, to have the Union Jack flown permanently over council
buildings and to fund St George's Day celebrations.

Jon Cruddas, Dagenham's Labour MP, accuses the group of peddling "stunt
politics, urban myths and falsehoods". It certainly taps into the fears of an
indigenous population bewildered by the influx of immigrants. But Mr Barnbrook
denies that he is racist or extremist.

Over a lunchtime beer, he insisted that he was not opposed to immigrants
themselves, and noted that his brother was married to a Jamaican - "I myself am
not drawn to that type of person," he quickly added. He said it was the
consequences of mass immigration - for community cohesion, crime and
overstretched local services - that concerned him. He even blamed immigration
for the tuberculosis he contracted last year. "This disease should not have come
into our country," he said at the time.

All immigration should be stopped, he added. All illegal immigrants and failed
asylum-seekers should be repatriated. Poor immigrants should be given financial
assistance to go home.

Islam was a threat to the British way of life. "Where you have a large Muslim
community you find the indigenous community is whittled away and broken down,"
he said. "They will not become part of the community. They take over a community
and inflict their identity on it."

These are jarring views for a man who aspires to represent arguably the world's
most cosmopolitan capital - a city where the foreign-born comprise a third of
the population. But Mr Barnbrook rejects the idea that London's diversity should
be a source of pride. He sees nothing to celebrate. He talks of a society that
is breaking down, of black-on-black crime that leaves inner city residents too
terrified to leave their homes, of "large swaths of London" where people fear to
go at night. "This is not enrichment," he says. "This is not renaissance. This
is a dark age."

RISE OF THE BNP

* Under its founder, John Tyndall, the British National Party struggled to
capture more than a tiny percentage of the votes at local or general elections.
That began to change with Nick Griffin's election as chairman in 1999 and his
attempts to clean up the party's image

* Its first council seat was won by Derek Beackon in a Tower Hamlets by election
in 1993. By 2003 the party had managed to secure 13 seats, adding another four
the following year

* Although the BNP failed to win any seats in the 2005 general election, the
party raised its total number of votes to 192,850 - from 47,219 in 2001. Mr
Griffin polled 4,240 votes in Keighley, West Yorkshire - 9.16 per cent of the
total

* Of the seven million votes cast in the 2006 local elections, the party won
229,000. The Green Party, in comparison, won 364,000 votes. The number of BNP
councillors doubled to 46, and in Barking and Dagenham it became the second
biggest party

* Mr Griffin claimed that the party had seen an upswing in support after the
2005 terrorist attacks in London, but the party's annual accounts showed a gain
of only 146 members that year, bringing its total membership to 6,502

* Two years ago the party was reported to be attracting about 100 new members a
week

Sources: Times database, BNP

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            April 9, 2008 Wednesday

Sticking his neck out

BYLINE: Charles Legge

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 66

LENGTH: 1345 words


QUESTION What did Amerigot Marcel do to the people of Bruges to be publicly
executed in the main town square? THROUGHOUT the Hundred Years' War (1337-1453)
the English made use of routiers, bands of mercenaries who roamed throughout
rural France.

These were usually former soldiers who were surprisingly well organised and well
trained. Most hailed from the province of Gascony in south-west France (though
others came from Spain, Germany and England) which had been under English
control since 1154 and was a major battleground during the War.

They gained a fearsome reputation: pillaging, raping and looting everything they
came across.

Amerigot Marcel (who also appears as Aymerigot Marcel, Amerygott Marcel and
Merigot Marches in the literature) was a former French captain born in Limousin
in about 1360.

Limousin was particularly volatile during the conflict being on the border of
French and English dominions, and Marcel eventually left service to became a
routier.

He was, for a time, the most feared man in southern France, taking to plundering
and occupying many castles in the Auvergne region including Ventadour, Cassuriel
and Mercoeur.

Marcel was captured in 1390 after his fortress at La Roche Vandeix was taken
while he was away raising troops. He sought refuge with a cousin called
Tournemine, but was turned over to the Duke Of Berry ,John of Valois, the
Magnificent, third son of King John II of France.

Amerigot was taken to Paris and put on trial for his criminal activities at the
head of a band of routiers.

In a most interesting defence of his actions he appealed to the Treaty of
Bretigny (1360), by whose terms the land held in fee by his father passed from
the French king into the possession of the Duke of Lancaster and the king of
England.

According to Merigot's reasoning, by looting and pillaging the countryside he
was serving his feudal masters (the English), carrying out a contract signed by
his former feudal master, the king of France.

His alleged criminal activity, then, should be seen as faithful adherence to an
agreement given by the French king and Merigot, who expected, at the expiration
of the treaty, to return to performing more direct services for the king of
France.

In spite of his elaborate appeal, Merigot was decapitated, hanged (somehow in
that order), drawn and quartered in Paris on Wednesday, July 12, 1391, having
refused the blessings of the priest.

Amerigot's story is recorded in Jean Froissart's Chronicles.

Froissart was one of the most important chroniclers of medieval Europe. He
travelled around England, Scotland, Wales, France, Flanders and Spain gathering
material and first-hand accounts for his chronicles.

The most lavishly illuminated copy was commissioned by Louis of Gruuthuse, a
Flemish nobleman, in the 1470s.

It contains 112 miniatures painted by the best Brugeois artists of the day and
explains why it may appear that Amerigot was executed in Bruges.

Martin Callaghan, Canterbury, Kent..

QUESTION Drachten in Holland has done away with all road signs and traffic
lights, leaving road safety the responsibility of drivers. Has this resulted in
a decrease in the number of accidents? THE more the environmentalist lobby and
officialdom tinker with road schemes, and restrict tarffic, with bus lanes,
chicanes, speed humps and traffic lights, the worse the problems become.

Liberating our roads through the wise use of 'Shared Space' could be the start
of a journey back to the personal liberty that has been removed by successive
governments and the EU.

Shared Space is a concept developed by the road traffic engineer and innovator
Hans Monderman, whose model was the town of Drachten in Holland.

It is the most comprehensive scheme to date involving the complete removal of
traffic lights in the town, as well as removing painted lines on the roads and
other traffic signs.

The aim was to create danger, which may sound strange, but that sense of danger
then encourages personal responsibility, awareness and concentration to protect
oneself and to avoid injuring others, a very libertarian approach   and it
works.

The main square, and biggest junction in the town, is the Laveiplein, which sees
well over 20,000 cars pass through each day, as well as having the town's bus
depot on one side.

The traffic lights have gone, replaced by a roundabout. Where there used to be
huge traffic jams there is now rarely a tailback, and waiting time for a bus has
dropped from 49 to nine seconds.

Indeed traffic lights have been removed throughout the town, not just the
Laveiplein.

There used to be one road death every three years in Drachten; there have been
no road deaths since Shared Space was introduced nearly nine years ago. That is
a singular lesson for those convinced that street signs and oppressive measures
against motorists are a solution to the problem.

I can't help wondering about the benefits to be gained by taking the philosophy
behind Shared Space further into our lives. Giving decision-making and
responsibility back to the people, be they motorists, cyclists or pedestrians,
has proved spectacularly successful in these examples.

Just think how many other areas of our lives could be similarly liberated using
this philosophy.

Gregg Beaman, UK Independence Party, Lancaster.

QUESTION Is it true that before Mussolini's troops invaded Ethiopia in 1935,
they received a blessing from the Pope? FURTHER to the earlier answer, though
the Pope may not have directly blessed the invasion, many of his subordinates
did.

Foremost among these was Alfredo Ildefonso Cardinal Schuster, Archbishop of
Milan. He was a fervent supporter of Mussolini and his invasion of Abyssinia;
comparing it favourably to the Crusades and viewing it as a potential source of
converts.

On October 28, 1935, while saying mass in the Duomo di Milano, Schuster asked
God to protect Mussolini's troops as 'they open the door of Ethiopia to the
Catholic faith and Roman civilisation'.

During the invasion he stated: 'On the plains of Ethiopia, the Italian standard
carries forward in triumph the Cross of Christ, smashes the chains of slavery,
and opens the way for the missionaries of the

QUESTIONS Q: In the film Raiders Of The Lost Ark, Indiana Jones has a stand-up
fight with a German soldier on an airstrip which ends in the soldier being
dispatched by the propeller of an odd-looking German plane.

Was there such a plane? Dennis McGrellis, Birchington, Kent.

Q: Why does my voice sound different to me than to other people? Jane Timms,
Malvern, Worcs.

Q: Are there any Englishmen serving in the Scottish Parliament? Ron Hanks,
London.

Gospel.' He later famously referred to Il Duce as 'he who has given Italy to God
and God to Italy'.

Jane Oliver, Droitwich, Worcs.

QUESTION How does Stephen Hawking's voice simulator/box work? FURTHER to the
earlier answer, Stephen Hawking is no longer able to use his hands to create
words.

His computer is attached to his wheelchair and allows him to choose words on a
computer screen via a sensor that detects motion in his cheek.

Ian Hiscocks, Glasgow.

QUESTION Where in England, Scotland, Ireland and Wales are the highest
accessible paved roads I can legally visit by motorbike? FURTHER to the earlier
answer, here in Ireland the stunning Conor Pass, standing at 456m (about 1,500
ft), on the Dingle Peninsula in Co.

Kerry, is usually cited as the highest in Ireland. However the Glengesh Pass at
502m (1,647ft) is higher.

The pass winds between the towns of Glencolumbkille on the south-west coast of
Donegal and heads east and north-west to Ardara.

John Egan, Cork.

Newspapers Support Recycling.

Recycled paper made up 79.0% of the raw material for UK newspapers in 2007.

÷ IS THERE a question to which you have always wanted to know the answer? Or do
you know the answer to a question raised here? Send your questions and answers
to: Charles Legge, Answers To Correspondents, Daily Mail, 2 Derry Street, London
W8 5TT. You can also fax them to 01952 510906 or you can e-mail them to
charles.legge@dailymail.co.uk A selection will be published but we are not able
to enter into individual correspondence..

LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Marcel's death: He was decapitated, hanged, drawn and quartered

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 April 6, 2008

Hans-Gert Pottering

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 75 words


Hans-Gert Pottering, president of the European Parliament, recently called for a
boycott of the Beijing Olympics. But Godfrey Bloom, Ukip MEP and scourge of
women who forget to clean behind the fridge, is astonished by Gert's defence of
free speech. "This man fined me two days' pay for demonstrating for a referendum
on the new constitution," says Godfrey.

It's all very confusing for those of us who thought Gert Pottering was a small
village in Dorset.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              April 4, 2008 Friday

Reply Letters and emails: Boris, Ken and other candidates for mayor

BYLINE: Gerard Batten, MEP

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 118 words


* I was almost amused to read that Boris Johnson is turning down invitations. He
is luckily to be in the position to do so. I was not invited to participate in
the Time Out hustings your article referred to and have been similarly excluded
from the stage-managed hustings organised by the London Evening Standard.

In addition to this, the BBC and the Standard have continually presented the
Green candidate as the "fourth" candidate, despite the fact that the Ukip
mayoral candidate in 2004 won twice as many votes as the Green candidate. The
way that some elements of the media have so far reported this election is a
disgrace in a so-called democracy.

Gerard Batten MEP

Independence party candidate for

London mayor

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 36 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 2, 2008

Give second vote to Johnson, BNP tells supporters

LENGTH: 781 words



HIGHLIGHT: The British National party has called on its supporters to give their
second-preference votes in the London mayoral election to the Conservative
candidate, Boris Johnson


The British National party has called on its supporters to give their
second-preference votes in the London mayoral election to the Conservative
candidate, Boris Johnson.

In a statement posted on its website today, the far-right party advised people
to award its own mayoral candidate, Richard Barnbrook, their first-choice vote,
and "the Tory clown Johnson" their second because he was the lesser of two
evils.

It read: "Our suggestion ? is that you hold your nose and cast it in favour of
the Conservative candidate, Boris Johnson. This is not because we think that
Johnson would be any good as mayor ? he is as politically correct as any of the
other candidates and has no real ties to our London ? but because he wouldn't be
actively bad in the way that [Ken] Livingstone [the Labour candidate] is."

After attacking the Tory party for its behaviour over Europe and its support for
"mass immigration", the statement went on: "In this race, the Tory clown Johnson
is a lesser evil than the Marxist crank Livingstone, so replacing the latter
with the former would, on balance, be an improvement for the majority of
Londoners.

"So even if Johnson condemns the BNP (and as a Tory 'wet' he's bound to), a
second-choice vote for him gives you the chance to vote BNP as your first
preference and still vote to get Livingstone out of office."

Johnson made it clear that wanted no electoral help from the far-right.

"I utterly and unreservedly condemn the BNP and have no desire whatsoever to
receive a single second-preference vote from a BNP supporter," he said. "I hope
as many Londoners as possible turn out on May 1 to prevent the election of a BNP
candidate."

The current mayor, Ken Livingstone, pointed out that the Green party candidate,
Siân Berry, had called for her supporters to give their second-preference votes
to him.

He added: "That the BNP have called for a second-preference vote to the Tory
against me is no surprise. I hate and despise everything the BNP stand for as
against every value of London as a great multi-ethnic tolerant and diverse
city."

Brian Paddick, the Liberal Democrat candidate, said: "Clearly the BNP have
recognised Boris's talent for causing offence and creating division. This should
be a wake-up call for all decent people who could vote in the election to
register their vote because the more votes there are for mainstream parties, the
less chance there will be to give racists and extremists a seat."

Analysts believe the BNP could make a breakthrough in May's election unless
there is a big voter turnout. Last time London went to the polls the far-right
party got 4.8% - just short of the 5% needed to get a member on the London
assembly.

At the time the UK Independence party, which has since largely imploded, polled
8.8% and it is feared many of its supporters may now transfer their allegiance
to the BNP.

The electoral system means the party, which has since picked up several local
councillors in London, needs 5% to get one assembly member, around 8% to get two
and 11% to get three.

Yesterday Nick Lowles, from the anti-fascist organisation Searchlight, said
London was in danger of sleepwalking towards a BNP breakthrough, adding it was
crucial that voters turned out on May 1 to ensure the party was kept out of
mainstream politics.

"Let there be no mistake about it there is a chance that they could get one, two
or even three assembly members and that will change the nature of politics in
London. It is vital that everyone who opposes the racism of the BNP turns out
and makes their voice heard."

The BNP faced a serious setback this week when it was forced to ditch its
second-choice candidate for the London assembly, Nick Eriksen, after the former
Conservative councillor in Southwark, south London, was sacked for writing a
blog which appeared to advocate the abuse of women.

In one posting he wrote: "I've never understood why so many men have allowed
themselves to be brainwashed by the feminazi myth machine into believing that
rape is such a serious crime... Rape is simply sex. Women enjoy sex, so rape
cannot be such a terrible physical ordeal. To suggest that rape, when conducted
without violence, is a serious crime is like suggesting force feeding a woman
chocolate cake is a heinous offence."

Announcing its decision to remove him from their list yesterday, a statement on
the BNP website, added: "It was felt that no matter how much Nick Eriksen's blog
comments, written back in 2005, had been distorted and taken out of the context
of a blog which reflected our tough stance on all sorts of crime, they could
still be perceived as trivialising the issue in a manner that many women in
particular could have found extremely offensive."

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               36 of 36 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            April 2, 2008, Wednesday

Mosque opposition

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 154 words


Sir, Councillor Alan Craig (letter, March 31) challenged the other London
mayoral candidates to state their position on the proposed West Ham
"supermosque". I am more than happy to do so. I am opposed to the building of
the mosque because it is promoted and funded by foreign sources that represent
fundamentalist and extremist interpretations of Islam that are incompatible with
Western liberal democracy. But I go further than Alan Craig in that as London
mayor I would oppose planning permission for any new mosques in London until
there are places of non-Muslim worship allowed in Mecca and Medina.

Moderate Muslims should support such a policy so that a message can be sent loud
and clear to the extremists. Muslims must apply the same degree of tolerance to
other religions in their heartland that they expect to be applied to them in
non-Islamic countries.

Gerard Batten

Member of the European Parliament for London, UKIP

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved
