
                               1 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 29, 2008

Review: Details: This party's such a drag: When smokers met up to bemoan the
one-year-old ban, Lynn Barber found the company made her choke - David Hockney
excepted

BYLINE: Lynn Barber

SECTION: OBSERVER REVIEW FEATURES PAGES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 606 words


It is a year now since the smoking ban and, last Tuesday, Forest, the
pro-smoking lobby, held a party, or wake, to mark the anniversary. It was at
Boisdale of Belgravia, a Pickwickian hostelry that has a whole wall of cigar
boxes by the entrance and big signs everywhere saying Smokers Welcome. So it was
disconcerting to find David Hockney coming out for a fag just as I was going in.
He said you were only allowed to smoke on the roof terrace, which was too
crowded and anyway he couldn't hear inside. He has wizard hearing aids these
days that enable him to have normal one-to-one conversations (there was a stage,
some years ago, when he couldn't), but he still can't hear at parties when there
are voices in all directions.

So I joined him on the pavement and shared a fag or three and he told me his
latest shock horror fact, which is that 40 per cent of all advertising in
California relates to prescription drugs. Can that be true? Maybe I misheard
him; I was so busy lighting up. He says that now he lives full time in
Bridlington, Yorkshire, he brings all his cigarettes over from Baden-Baden,
where he goes every few months to take the waters. He smokes Davidoff because
they are the longest, and Camel Wide because they are the smoothest, but he
still misses Turkish cigarettes.

We were talking about the wonderful Hammershoi exhibition at the Royal Academy
and he was telling me there are several other good Danish artists (I had never
heard of any Danish artists until last week) when he was suddenly kidnapped by a
gang of people from the next-door art gallery, who said he must come and see
their show because it was in aid of Great Ormond Street Hospital. So off he
toddled, amiably, still puffing away. It is great to have him back in Britain
after his long Californian exile and clearly the Bridlington air (plus nicotine)
agrees with him.

It was time to face the hurly-burly of the Forest party and I pushed through a
warren of low-panelled rooms in search of the smoking terrace. There were lots
of people smoking cigars but also - yeuk! - several people smoking pipes. I know
we smokers are supposed to stick together, but I do draw the line at pipes. And
I couldn't get the hang of the party at all. I couldn't work out who these
strange Forest people were and whenever I tried asking, they ran a mile. They
mainly looked like ageing Hooray Henrys, big on cufflinks and jazzy braces, the
women with bouffant hair and kipper suntans.

I hoped the speeches would bring illumination and they sort of did. The speakers
were Simon Clark, director of Forest, Philip Davies, a Tory MP who supports
smoking even though he doesn't smoke himself, and then - greeted with a cheer -
Nigel Farage of Ukip who smokes 50 a day. They all said we must use the
forthcoming David Davis byelection to assert our 'ancient freedoms' to hunt
foxes, drive fast motorbikes and smoke in pubs - not simultaneously I trust.

Then we had a speech from the martyr of the cause, Hamish Howitt, who runs a pub
in Blackpool and has had 22 prosecutions with another nine to come because he
loves his regulars, who are all old and blind and disabled, and can't bear to
stop them lighting up. He was sweet but also, I thought, doomed. Presumably the
party was meant to inspire us poor huddled masses to rise up against our
oppressors, man the barricades and charge the gun emplacements or at least to
write to our MPs. But frankly, we are a raggle-taggle, defeated army, never very
disciplined at the best of times, and if it means getting into bed with Ukip, I
think I'll pass.

Lynn Barber and David Hockney at the Forest party, Belgravia, London. Sophia
Evans


LOAD-DATE: June 30, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday

Humiliated;
On Brown's 1st anniversary, Labour plunges to fifth place in Henley poll

BYLINE: Michael Lea

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1199 words


GORDON Brown yesterday marked a miserable anniversary of his first year as Prime
Minister with the 'abject humiliation' of seeing Labour beaten into fifth place
in the Henley by-election.

The party scraped just over 1,000 votes, lost its deposit and trailed in behind
the British National Party and the Greens - prompting calls from some sections
of the party for the Prime Minister to consider stepping down.

Shocked ministers described the scale of the drubbing, which shows the extent to
which Mr Brown's popularity has nosedived since he took over from Tony Blair, as
terrible.

And yet he apparently dismissed the result by claiming that 'by-elections come
and by-elections go'.

A jubilant David Cameron said the victory showed that voters see the Con-
servatives as a credible future government.

His party even managed to secure a small swing from the Liberal Democrats to
increase its share of the vote further.

LibDem elections supremo Lord Rennard told Sky News that the result was an
'abject humiliation' for Mr Brown.

Yesterday Cabinet ministers stayed quiet as Labour tried to ignore the dismal
result. But, as party chiefs began an inquest, deputy leader Harriet Harman was
being lined up as the scapegoat.

Insiders blamed her for handing votes to the BNP by unveiling the controversial
Equalities Bill, which promotes women and ethnic minorities in the workplace, on
polling day. She was also criticised for demanding a 'positive' campaign which
left Labour supporters unmoved.

Labour's ambitions in trueblue Henley were modest, but the scale of their rout
has shocked many in the party.

Officials had been briefing from the start of the campaign that Labour candidate
Richard McKenzie would lose his £500 deposit by failing to win five per cent of
the overall votes cast.

But they were not prepared for the disaster that followed.

Health Minister Ben Bradshaw defended Mr Brown and blamed the poor showing at
the polls on the economic downturn, insisting Labour could bounce back.

'But I'm not trying to minimise my disappointment,' he said. 'It's a terrible
result.' Olympics minister Tessa Jowell said she 'felt sick' at losing to the
BNP and added: 'I don't want to make too much of it but it was a bad result.'
Backbench MP Martin Salter, who helped run the campaign, called the defeat
'grim'. Others suggested that the PM's days may be numbered. Labour's forfor mer
chief fund-raiser Lord Levy was asked on BBC's Newsnight if Mr Brown should go.
'I certainly, seeing the polls, would have to say that this is something that
needs to be very seriously considered,' he said.

Backbench MP Ronnie Campbell said: 'It's a bad day when the BNP can beat Labour.
It sticks in my craw. I don't like to back losers and he's a loser at the
moment.' Tam Dalyell, former MP and Father of the Commons, blasted 'young,
rather arrogant, inexperienced, bumptious ministers in the Cabinet', singling
out Children's Secretary Ed Balls, Work and Pensions Secretary James Purnell,
Culture Secretary Andy Burnham and Yvette Cooper, Treasury chief secretary.

'People think it is a very unimpressive, on-the-make Cabinet,' he said. On a
visit to Manchester to highlight public service reform yesterday, Mr Brown
insisted he is focused on the long term.

'Of course we have to listen to what people say,' he said. 'But my main job is
to improve our public services, to get the economy moving forward, to make sure
that in the health service and education people have the best services that they
want.

'People know that we are going through difficult times in the economy. It's my
job to steer us through these difficult times.' Mr Cameron said the by-election
- triggered by Boris Johnson standing down to become London Mayor - was
'disastrous'

Labour. Tory candidate John Howell held the seat with a slightly reduced
majority of 10,116 over the LibDems ,but increased the Tory vote share on the
2005 general election. There was a slight but significant swing from the
LibDems.

Mr Cameron said: 'What we are seeing is that people who voted for all sorts of
different parties - including the Liberal Democrats - are now looking at the
Conservatives and saying "Yes, this is an alternative to the Government that I
can believe in".' At the 2005 general election, Labour finished third with more
than 6,000 votes. Yesterday, it polled just 1,066 votes - just 200 ahead of the
UK Independence Party. Last night ,an opinion poll gave the Tories a 21-point
lead over Labour.

The ComRes survey for The Independent put them up two points on 46 per cent -
their highest rating under David Cameron. Labour is down five to 25 per cent. If
the results were replicated at a General Election, Mr Cameron would secure a
landslide 212-seat majority.

A separate poll by Ipsos Mori found that Mr Brown's personal rating is now at
the same low hit by John Major in the aftermath of Black Wednesday in 1992.

Comment - Page 16 Peter Oborne - Page 33

THE VOTE John Howell (Con) 19,796 votes, 56.95 per cent share, +3.46 per cent
Stephen Kearney (LibDem) 9,680, 27.85 per cent +1.84 Mark Stevenson (Green)
1,321, 3.80 per cent, +0.54 Timothy Rait (BNP) 1,243, 3.58 per cent, change n/a
Richard McKenzie (Lab) 1,066, 3.07 per cent, -11.68

A DEFEAT WITHOUT PRECEDENT

LABOUR has never before finished fifth in a byelection.

And only once previously has a sitting government finished behind four other
parties - the Tories in the Ulster constituency of North Down in 1995.

However, in terms of vote share it is still not the worst by-election
performance by an incumbent Government.

The Conservatives in 1991 at Liverpool Walton and Labour in Winchester in 1997
had even worse results, although both those polls saw fierce tactical voting not
in entirely in evidence at Henley on Thursday.

Lewis Baston, of the Electoral Reform Society said: 'The lost deposit was
perhaps predictable, but the embarrassment of coming behind the Greens was not,
and the abject humiliation of limping in behind the BNP in this affluent home
counties seat was an entirely unexpected blow.' But Professor John Curtice, of
Strathclyde University, claimed that despite the rout in the true-blue safe
seat, defeat last month in the Crewe and Nantwich by- election was far more
damaging to Gordon Brown. He said: 'We know Labour is in serious lateral
trouble, so the fact that they polled only three per cent of the vote is in tune
with all the past evidence - recent opinion polls, the local elections and Crewe
and Nantwich.

'The real news is the fact that the Tories managed to win a small swing from the
Liberal Democrats.

'Had there been a five or six per cent swing away, it would have been fairly
unremarkable. This is reason for quiet satisfaction.' Despite the movement being
only 0.81 per cent, it bucks the trend of by-elections where the LibDems are the
main challengers.

Nick Clegg visited Henley seven times and the Lib- Dems' formidable by-election
machine was headed by party chief Lord Rennard.

'It is not a champagne cork-popping moment,' said Professor Curtice. 'But it
certainly merits a glass of chilled white wine in the sunshine. This is for the
first time evidence that the Tories can see off the Lib- Dem challenge.'

21 points is the latest Tory poll lead over Labour

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Poll-axed Premier: A grim-faced Gordon Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday

Labour were very bad losers in Henley Simon Heffer on Saturday

BYLINE: Simon Heffer

SECTION: FEATURES; Comment; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 166 words


Had a performing seal in a blue rosette been put up by the Tories in the Henley
by-election it would have won, a contention for which there is some evidence.
Yet nothing can conceal that the performance of Labour, coming fifth behind the
Greens and the BNP, jolly nearly being beaten by UKIP and losing its deposit
with a pitiful 3.7 per cent of the vote, is dire. Dave has ordered his party to
go soft on Gordon Brown, since the Tories know their best chance of winning the
next election is to keep this blundering, tunnel-visioned, disconnected man in
Downing Street for as long as possible. I wonder whether the abominable
performance in Henley will convert a few more Labour MPs to the growing number
who see the dole queue beckoning within the next two years unless Mr Brown is
pensioned off sharpish. I also see why Labour isn't running in Haltemprice,
where there are 26 candidates: the party would come about 24th, behind the Miss
Great Britain Party and the Church of the Militant Elvis.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday

Saturday: Comment & Debate: The real story of Henley is a historic Tory
recovery: It was a humiliation for Brown, but this result is really about
Cameron's astonishing repulsion of the Lib Dem challenge

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1031 words


If every picture tells a story, then so does every byelection. Don't fall for
the official Labour blah that tries to belittle the result of this week's Henley
contest to replace Boris Johnson as just another midterm byelection in an
ultra-safe Conservative seat producing a predictable anti-government result. No,
Henley was much more important than that.

It may be tempting, especially on the first anniversary of Gordon Brown's
miserable year, to kick a man when he's down and concentrate on Labour's abject
performance this week - fifth place behind the Greens and the BNP, a lost
deposit, the collapse to 3% of the vote. Much of the instant coverage has
already done just that. Actually, the real story from Henley - just as from
Crewe and Nantwich a month ago - is rather less about Labour and rather more
about the Conservatives.

What short memories some people have. Until four weeks ago, byelections were to
the Tories what penalty shoot-outs still are to England footballers. Before
Crewe, the Tories had never captured a Labour seat in a byelection since Mitcham
and Morden in 1982. But before Thursday's 7.5% swing in Henley, the Tories had
not performed so well in a byelection in one of their own seats since Knutsford
in 1979 either. Nine weeks after Knutsford Margaret Thatcher was quoting St
Francis of Assisi on the threshold of No 10. Crewe and Henley should be seen as
a groundbreaking pair. Between them, the two results mark another historic
Conservative recovery.

To understand the significance of Henley, just compare the result there this
week with what happened in the previous byelection in a safe Tory seat in
southern England only two years ago. In June 2006 the Conservatives had to
defend the late Eric Forth's 13,000 majority in Bromley and Chislehurst. Just as
at Henley, the Labour vote collapsed at the ensuing byelection - Labour finished
fourth behind Ukip that time. But in Bromley large sections of the Tory vote
deserted the cause too, bringing a surging Liberal Democrat challenger to within
633 votes of capturing the seat in one of those trademark byelection coups.

At Henley the Conservatives were defending a 12,000 majority from 2005, but the
dynamic was absolutely different. Once again the Labour vote drained away. This
time, though, the Tory share of the vote not only held up - as it had
dramatically failed to do in Bromley - but actually strengthened. The Liberal
Democrats deployed all their formidable byelection black arts to try to win
Henley but ended up with a share of the vote only 2% greater than in 2005,
compared with the 18% increase they notched in Bromley.

If you are looking for the real significance of Henley, this was it. For a
quarter of a century and more, no byelection in a Conservative seat in southern
England has been safe from massive tactical voting against the incumbent party,
mainly to the benefit of the Lib Dems. Think Eastbourne, Newbury, Christchurch,
Eastleigh and Winchester, famous captures all. The same very nearly happened in
Bromley. But it didn't come close to happening in Henley. In Henley, decent and
dissatisfied middle-ground voters voted Tory in serious numbers. The Lib Dem
challenge was repulsed on a scale hardly seen for a generation.

This is David Cameron's doing. Henley does not tell us what sort of
parliamentary majority Cameron will have on the morning after May 6 2010 - the
hot favourite date of the next general election. But, all other things being
equal, it points towards it being a healthy one. Add in the local election
results and the latest national opinion polls, and it is hard to mistake the
fact that the Tory leader has now led his party across an electoral watershed: a
20-point lead over Labour in the May local elections; another 20-point lead in
the Guardian's latest poll this week; an 18-point lead in the Telegraph poll
yesterday; two emphatic byelection wins - the Tory party has not had such depth
of electoral success in opposition since the late 1960s under Ted Heath and the
late 1970s under Thatcher. Two years is a long time to sustain such levels of
success. But these trends will take some reversing now.

The blunting of the Liberal Democrat challenge has been a crucial part of this
Conservative revival, as Henley proved. Senior Lib Dems will now tell you that
their general election strategy for 2010 is to defend in the south against the
Tories and to attack in the north against Labour. This sounds impressive, and it
has historical plausibility - the aim to replace ailing Labour as the true
progressive party of the future makes sense for Nick Clegg. It makes less sense,
though, when you look at the electoral map, which reveals only 17 northern
England Labour-held constituencies in the Lib Dem's 100 most winnable seats as
against 48 southern England Tory-held ones. The truth is that Clegg's
north-south strategy has been forced on him by the Tory revival.

Nevertheless. the crucial factor in Cameron's ascendancy has been Labour's
collapse under Gordon Brown. One pities a man as proud as the prime minister
studying this week's humiliating and embarrassing numbers. Just 2% of voters say
their views of Brown have improved over the past 12 months (Guardian-ICM); a
mere 3% think that he is an improvement on Tony Blair (Telegraph-YouGov). A year
ago, when the pollsters asked if Brown was a liability to Labour, only 25%
answered yes; today that figure has ballooned to 61%.

Right now, the talk among Labour ministers and MPs is overwhelmingly focused on
day-to-day things. Who did better today - Brown or Cameron, Labour or the
Tories? Was Friday better than Thursday and Thursday than Wednesday? Getting
through to the summer recess without things getting any worse is now the sole
focus of Labour's hugely deflated ambitions. Survival is all. After that,
something may turn up.

Judged by this utterly uninspiring yardstick, this has not been Brown's worst
week. Judged by almost any other criterion it is an abject and perhaps even an
epochal collapse. While recognising the force of all the arguments against a
change of Labour leader, it is hard to see how things can continue in this way
for another two years.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

Happy birthday from Henley;
LEADING ARTICLE

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 153 words


Yesterday was never going to be a cheerful first anniversary for the Prime
Minister, but the results of the Boris Johnson memorial by-election must have
made it a good deal worse. For Labour to come third in a true-blue constituency
like Henley would be forgivable; to come fourth, after the Greens, would smack
of carelessness. But to come fifth, behind the BNP and only just before UKIP, is
little short of a catastrophe.

It is not as though the turnout were so low as to suggest that only extreme
loyalists and fanatics bestirred themselves to vote. Just over 50 per cent is
creditable for a by-election in an eminently safe seat. This lamentable result
suggests rather that even diehard Labour voters cast around for reasons to
support almost anyone else. No wonder the party is not fielding a candidate
against David Davis. The mountain Gordon Brown has to climb has never looked
more forbidding than it does today.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

A terrible result for us, admits minister

BYLINE: Colin Brown Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 419 words


Famed for the annual royal rowing regatta, ladies in large hats and Pimm's,
Henley marked a new low for Labour under Gordon Brown when the party was beaten
into a humiliating fifth place in the by-election.

Mr Brown tried to brush off the result in the staunchly Conservative seat,
saying "by-elections come and by-elections go". But it was the first time since
the Second World War that Labour has come fifth in a by-election and it caused
panic in the ranks.

Labour also lost its deposit for the first time since the Cheadle by-election in
July 2005. But more worryingly for Mr Brown, Labour was beaten by the Greens and
the BNP.

Labour MPs warned that Mr Brown would have to change direction or face a
challenge for the leadership. Alan Simpson, a member of the left-wing Campaign
Group, said: "He's got until the end of the year. If he hasn't changed
direction, it's the end of the pier.

"Every time we think we have hit rock bottom, the party manages to find a lower
level. Something has got to change if we are going to stop the descent turning
into freefall."

The Health minister, Ben Bradshaw, admitted it had been a "terrible result" for
Labour on the first anniversary of Mr Brown's term as Prime Minister.

But, he said: "We've got the credit crunch, we have a doubling in oil prices, we
have had food prices rise by 40 per cent since spring. That's a difficult
economic backdrop. I don't believe [Mr Brown] is personally unpopular."

The by-election was caused by the decision of Boris Johnson, the sitting MP, to
quit after becoming Mayor of London. Henley had been held by Michael Heseltine
and there were fears the poll could backfire on the Tories after a stunning
victory over Labour in Crewe and Nantwich.

David Cameron, the Tory leader, ordered his entire press headquarters to move to
Henley for the final day of canvassing. The Tory victor, John Howell, a local
councillor, won by a comfortable margin of 10,116.

Mr Cameron, hosting a Shadow Cabinet "away-day", said it was the first time for
years that there had been a by-election contest between the Liberal Democrats
and Conservatives where there had been swing to the Tories.

THE WEEK IN POLITICS, PAGE 17

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 38

LETTERS, PAGE 40

Henley vote

*John Howell (C): 19,795 (56.95 per cent)

*Stephen Kearney (LD): 9,680 (27.85 per cent)

*Mark Stevenson (Green): 1,321 (3.8 per cent)

*Timothy Rait (BNP): 1,243 (3.58 per cent)

*Richard McKenzie (Lab): 1,066 (3.07 per cent)

*Chris Adams (Ukip): 843 (2.43 per cent)

Con majority: 10,116

(29.10 per cent)

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

..AND IN 5TH PLACE..;
ANOTHER BY-ELECTION DISASTER FOR LABOUR

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1399 words


LABOUR lurched further into crisis yesterday after they were beaten by the
Greens and the BNP in a by-election.

On the first anniversary of Gordon Brown taking power, his party fell to fifth
place and even lost its pounds 500 deposit.

They won only 1,066 votes - fewer than the BNP, Greens, Lib Dems and Tory victor
John Howell - in Boris Johnson's former seat Henley.

Labour's Richard McKenzie was only 800 votes ahead of the Loony candidate
Bananaman Owen, slogan: Born to be Bananas.

It was the first time one of the three main parties had finished fifth since
1976.

Government minister Ben Bradshaw admitted it was a "terrible result".

Labour MP David Drew called for Mr Brown to quit. He said: "There's no point
doing the job if you're not enjoying it and it's all too hard. He has to look at
himself and make a decision."

Former Blair ally Lord Levy told BBC Newsnight sacking Mr Brown "would need to
be very seriously considered, seeing the polls".

Olympics minister Tessa Jowell said it had been a "very tough" year for Mr
Brown.

When asked about a reshuffle she told BBC Radio 4 that prominent Blairites now
on the backbenches, including former health secretary Alan Milburn, were "people
of great talent".

But the PM shrugged off the result, saying: "By-elections come and by-elections
go."

Speaking in Manchester, Mr Brown said: "Of course we have to listen to what
people say.

"But my main job is to improve our public services and get the economy moving
forward.

"My job is to steer us through these difficult times in the economy."

Tory leader David Cameron said: "People who voted for all sorts of parties,
including the Lib Dems, are now looking at the Conservatives and saying, 'Yes,
this is an alternative to the Government that I can believe in.'"

Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg said: "Labour's days are well and truly over. Liberal
Democrats are challenging the Conservatives in the south and Labour in the
north."

Labour had not expected to win the safe Conservative seat, in Oxfordshire. But
the collapse in their vote could further weaken Mr Brown's standing in his
party. Labour took 3.1 per cent of the poll. They had 14.7 per cent in the 2005
election, when they came third.

A YouGov poll showed Labour gained a little since last month. They were 24
points behind the Tories then but only 18 points yesterday.

Yet 61 per cent still thought Gordon Brown was a liability to his party.

VERDICT..on Brown's first year as Prime Minister

PM's united the nation by disappointing everyone

TONY PARSONS

NO, your memory is not playing you tricks. One year ago Gordon Brown did become
Prime Minister on a tidal wave of goodwill and optimism.

After 10 years of Blair, old-fashioned Labour supporters had no doubt that
Gordon Brown would restore the party's moral authority and stand up for the poor
and the weak.

Others looked to Brown to end the Tony and Cherie era of lies, spin and free
holidays, and bring some fundamental decency back to 10 Downing Street.

There were even many Tories who were happy to see a man widely regarded as a
brilliant Chancellor of the Exchequer become PM.

A year on, Mr Brown has united the nation. He has succeeded in disappointing
everyone. What happened?

Brown has been cut down to size by bad luck and buried 6ft under by bad
judgment. It wasn't his fault that he took over just as the global economy was
hitting the rocks.

Soaring fuel and food prices are largely beyond his control. But there were
other events that were certainly his fault. The 10p tax fiasco hit the lowest
paid workers, the very people that Labour is meant to defend.

Brown was unlucky to become PM just as the world became a tougher place. But he
has too often seemed to lack conviction. As when he dithered over going to the
polls last autumn or when he signed up for the Lisbon Treaty but didn't have the
courage to do it with the other EU leaders. What does he believe in?

Then there is that personality. In private he is warm and likeable. In public he
is gloomy and moody.

In the Henley byelection Labour polled less than the BNP. Henley may be a safe
Tory seat but there is no constituency in the land where Labour should be
polling less that the BNP.

The smart thing would be to ditch Brown now but that will not happen.

This proud man will not wish history to remember him as a PM who never won a
general election.

With Labour heading for defeat at the next election, there will be no mad rush
of bright young things eager to become his replacement.

Like Prince Charles, Gordon Brown is a man who simply waited too long for the
crown.

Gordon Brown could yet push open the coffin lid

KEVIN MAGUIRE

POLITICAL soothsayers looking two years ahead and writing off Gordon Brown might
now be right.

The Henley humiliation was a wholly unwelcome first birthday present. A bunch of
fives.

But fair-weather supporters declaring he has passed his sell-by date just 12
months after they hailed him as a messiah might just have got it wrong.

Brown remains fundamentally the same leader who as Chancellor was said to be so
powerful that he, not Tony Blair, was the real PM. His year in No10 has been
dogged by bad luck and poor judgment. But if a week is a long time in politics,
the two years to the 2010 General Election is an eternity.

Labour's death warrant will not be signed until people fall in love with Cameron
- and that hasn't happened.

Brown is resilient as well as clever and it ain't over until the country
sings...he must wish some of his erstwhile supporters had steadier nerves.

Finishing fifth behind even the Greens and vile BNP heaped humiliation on the
embarrassment of a lost pounds 500 deposit. Yet a few phone calls early
yesterday found little evidence of wild panic in the Labour ranks. Either MPs
are already mentally on the beach or they fear Labour is beached, resigned to
their fate. Because Labour is in a deep hole with real votes again proving the
opinion polls aren't wrong.

Losing once-safe Crewe was worse but Henley looks like another nail in the
political coffin.

And Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg threw the kitchen sink at the seat and still lost
by 10,000 - so Cameron is entitled to feel pleased with himself. But two years
out from the main contest, Brown could yet push open that coffin lid.

Cameron's hefty polls lead and byelection triumphs will shine the spotlight on
the Old Etonian ever more brightly.

The Tory PR man will wilt if he is exposed as a slippery right-winger behind the
smiles. Global forces pushing up food and fuel are a bigger danger to the PM
than Cameron.

Brown just needs to give people good reasons to vote Labour.

Over to you, Gordon.

June 27 2007

Brown takes over as Prime Minister from Tony Blair

June 30

Brown takes charge of handling terror attacks after two car bombs are found in
London and men crash a jeep into Glasgow airport terminal

Aug 12

Brown wins praise for his handling of worst floods in 60 years and swift action
over an outbreak of foot and mouth disease

Sep 14

Northern Rock crisis breaks triggering first run on a major British bank in more
than a century

Oct 7

Brown rules out an early election sparking accusations of dithering

Feb 17 2008

Northern Rock taken into public ownership, the first UK nationalisation since
the 70s, at massive cost to taxpayer

Apr22

Labour MPs revolt over the abolition of 10p tax rate

May 1

Labour slumps to its worst local election defeat in 40 years and London Labour
Mayor Ken Livingstone is beaten by Conservative Boris Johnson

May 13

Emergency mini Budget to prevent a party revolt over the 10p tax issue when
Alistair Darling borrows pounds 2.7billion to give all 22 million basic rate
taxpayers a tax cut

May 22

Labour loses first mid-term parliamentary election to Conservatives in 30 years
in Crewe and Nantwich

May 30

Opinion poll shows Labour support is at its lowest level since surveys began in
1943

June 11

Brown narrowly wins a parliamentary vote on his plan to extend the time
terrorism suspects can be held from 28 days to 42

June 27

Labour fall to fifth place in Henley by-election

How do you lose your deposit?

CANDIDATES have to put up a pounds 500 deposit before standing in a by-election
to deter fringe candidates with no hope of winning. They lose their money if
they pick up less than five per cent of the vote

HENLEY RESULTS

1. JOHN HOWELL

Conservative 19,796

2. STEPHEN KEARNEY

Lib Dems 9,680

3. MARK STEVENSON

Green 1,321

4. TIMOTHY RAIT

BNP 1,243

5. RICHARD McKENZIE

Labour 1,066

6. CHRIS ADAMS

UKIP 843

7. BANANAMAN OWEN

Loony 242

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: UNLUCKY Brown came to power at bad time; ROUTED Richard McKenzie;
WINNER MP John Howell yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 28, 2008 Saturday

The 'champion of liberty' faces the forces of beauty

BYLINE:  Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.25

LENGTH: 700 words


Davis launches by-election 'mini-manifesto'

There was more whimper than bang when Britain's champion of Magna Carta launched
his by-election campaign yesterday.

It wasn't supposed to be like this. When you are risking your political career
to defend a nation's civil liberties, the least you deserve is a heavyweight
opponent. David Davis has 25 rivals for the East Yorkshire seat of Haltemprice &
Howden but the only one who proved up for the fight yesterday was a beauty
queen.

Gemma Garrett travelled overnight from Henley-on-Thames to the Best Western
hotel in Hull where the former Shadow Home Secretary was launching his campaign.
Unfortunately, the reigning Miss Great Britain missed his speech because she was
having her hair done.

The extensive cast of fringe candidates is causing headaches for the BBC, which
has found itself in a quandary over how to cover the contest without breaching
broadcasting rules on impartiality. It is understood that high-level discussions
have been held over how to report Mr Davis's campaign without prompting demands
for equal coverage from his 25 rivals.

His launch was one of those events overwhelmed by a slightly embarrassed sense
of anti-climax before its main man has even taken to the stage. In a small
function room at the Willerby Manor Hotel, down the road from the local
Conservative Association office, 24 chairs had been placed facing a vacant
lectern.

Four seats were occupied by journalists, the rest by assorted supporters of Mr
Davis. Two large, ever-so-slightly wobbling young men have squeezed into
front-row seats, gently sweating inside thin campaign T-shirts with the slogan:
David Davis: Fighting for British Liberty.

The stage backdrop carried two prominent quotes. One was from Benjamin Franklin:
"Anyone who trades liberty for security deserves neither liberty nor security."
The other read: "... one of the most fascinating by-election contests in living
memory". It is attributed thus: "Michael Thrasher, Sky News, 12 June, 2008."

Shortly before the great moment, a campaign press officer whispered loudly to
the young T-shirt brigade, reminding them to clap when Mr Davis entered the
room. Which he then did, to loud applause. He made a ten-minute speech to launch
his personal mini-manifesto before inviting questions. The first was from the
BBC and the second came from Robert de Keyser, leader of the Miss Great Britain
Party, who affably invited Mr Davis to a debate with his candidate.

The Conservative candidate offered to discuss the matter later, then swiftly
exited the stage, his face a paler shade of thunderous. Poor Mr Davis. He
expected to be thrashing out the issues with a Labour representative of Gordon
Brown's "over-weaning, interfering, increasingly authoritarian State".

Instead, his best-known opponent is David Icke, a former sports presenter who
chose live television to proclaim himself the son of God.

When they go to the polls on July 10, the voters of Haltemprice & Howden will
not be able to vote for Labour, the Liberal Democrats, UKIP or even the BNP.
They will, however, be able to plump for the Church of the Militant Elvis Party,
the Official Monster Raving Loony Party (candidate: Mad Cow-Girl), the New
Party, the Christian Party, the Freedom 4 Choice Party, the Socialist Equality
Party and the National Front.

Completing the list, a record number of by-election candidates, are a rape
campaigner, a Northampton market trader, assorted Independents and Ronnie
Carroll, 73, who twice represented Britain in the Eurovision Song Contest during
the 1960s.

The irony of such pantomime politics, of course, is that the issues that Mr
Davis seeks to raise are deadly serious. He opposes an extension to what is
already "the longest period of pre-charge detention in the free world" and also
wants to block "the most intrusive ID card system in the world".

So you raise the civil liberties standard and who comes out to fight? A "blonde
babe" whose manifesto demands "compulsory health and beauty education".

Mr Davis lies in the bed he made, against the wishes of his party leader. David
Cameron visits the constituency next week. I bet he can't wait.

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 27, 2008 Friday

Harman plan a nightmare, warn bosses

BYLINE: Daniel Martin

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 20

LENGTH: 440 words


HARRIET Harman's proposed Bill to enforce equality in the workplace will be a
'bureaucratic nightmare', business leaders warned last night.

They said making bosses audit pay to assess the gap between male and female
staff will be costly and put them at risk of legal challenges from women who do
not think they are paid enough.

The Equality Bill, which was unveiled yesterday, will also make it legal for the
first time to promote a woman or a black person over a white man if they are
equally able.

Critics said the law would effectively reintroduce discrimination to the
workplace by allowing people to be chosen purely by their race or gender.

David Frost, of the British Chambers of Commerce, said: 'This could end up being
a bureaucratic nightmare.

The intention was to simplify the law. Increasing the complexity of tendering
for public contracts and putting more emphasis on positive action is unlikely to
make life simpler.' But Miss Harman said: 'There might be controversy, but you
don't get progress if there isn't a push forward.

Women will be able to see they are paid less than men and they will be able to
complain and challenge it.

'Entrenched discrimination is allowed to persist. It's the British thing of not
talking about pay.' Euro-MP Godfrey Bloom, of the UK Independence Party, called
the move 'legislation which will add to the unbelievable burden on small
business', adding: 'They should be deregulating, not continually interfering.'
The Chartered Institute of Person- nel and Development said: 'Positive
discrimination is illegal. Employers will have to have evidence of what they're
doing and why.' Lawyer Robin Jeffcoat warned the Bill would have to be worded to
stop unsuccessful job applicants from claiming they should have been hired to
boost the numbers of under-represented staff of their race or gender.

Tory MP Philip Davies said: 'How can you justify in an Equality Bill having
something that allows people to be selected solely on their colour or gender?
That is utterly outrageous.' But Diana Holland, of the Unite union, said: 'We
welcome legislation and fines to expose and deter pay cheats and close the wage
gap.' d.martin@dailymail.co.uk

BAKEWELL CLAUSE The Bill stops councils discriminating against the elderly in a
'Joan Bakewell clause'

It was named for the TV host, 75, who challenged a parking fine as she could not
hear the automated voice meter It will include a ban on complicated parking
meters and heavy wheelie bins ÷ Benches for older people will have to be
installed in designs for new children's play areas IT classes will need to
target the elderly to help them use services on the internet

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 27, 2008 Friday

Humiliation for Labour in Henley poll: Fifth place behind Greens and BNP on
Brown's first anniversary as PM

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour, Political editor

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 540 words


Gordon Brown suffered a scathing first anniversary verdict on his premiership
early this morning when Labour not only lost its deposit in the Henley
byelection, winning less than 5% of the vote, but was pushed into fifth place
behind the Greens and the British National party.

In an excellent night for David Cameron, the Conservatives easily held the leafy
Oxfordshire seat, beating back the Liberal Democrat challenge. The Conservative
candidate, John Howell, a local businessman, won with a majority of 10,116, a 4%
increase on his share of the vote at the general election. The turnout was just
over 50%, relatively high for a byelection .

Labour had been bracing itself for the loss if its deposit, but had never
expected to collapse in to fifth place. The last time one of the major parties
finished fifth in an English byelection was when the Liberals contested Walsall
North in 1976

Howell secured 19,796 votes, 56.95%, and a 3.46% increase on the Conservatives'
general election share in 2005. Stephen Kearney, the Liberal Democrat candidate,
won 9,680, a 27.85%, share and a 1.84% increase on the Liberal Democrats' 1997
result. The Greens came third with 1,321 votes, (3.80%) and the BNP fourth with
1,243 (3.58%).

Labour was consigned to fifth place with 1,066, securing just 3.07%, down from
14.7% on its 1997 share. It only narrowly avoided coming sixth behind Ukip.

The byelection was caused by the resignation of Boris Johnson following his
election as mayor of London in May. In his victory speech, Howell claimed that
voters had sent an anniversary message to Brown "to get off our backs, stop the
endless tax rises and do a U-turn on the road tax rises".

Martin Salter, the Labour MP for Reading West, said he was "very very
disappointed" by the result, blaming the Liberal Democrats for a "very nasty
campaign" in which Labour had expected to reap the whirlwind from the oil price
rises.

There had been some fears that star-struck Henley voters would turn against the
relatively anonymous Tory candidate after eight years with the high-profile
Johnson as their MP and nearly a quarter of a century of representation by
Michael Heseltine, the pro-European cabinet minister and one time challenger to
Lady Thatcher for the premiership.

This morning Labour headquarters dismissed its humiliation as insignificant,
pointing out that the party was always going to be squeezed in a contest that
inevitably saw anti-Tory voters tactically rallying round the Liberal Democrats.

The scale of the Labour decline in Henley, and humiliating relegation into fifth
place, comes on top of record low personal poll ratings for Brown and the
devastating loss of the once safe Crewe and Nantwich seat last month.

It is unlikely that the terrible result will act as a tipping point for those
cabinet members reluctantly considering whether they should ask Brown to stand
aside, but it will do nothing to boost confidence among Labour MPs in marginal
seats. They will be worried by signs that the Tories can now beat off the
Liberal Democrats, making an overall Tory majority at the next election more
likely.

The relative failure of the Liberal Democats to make any progress will be a
disappointment to Nick Clegg.

The Brown premiership, pages 14-15 >=

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 27, 2008

Brown's first anniversary marked with humiliating defeat in Henley byelection

LENGTH: 724 words


Gordon Brown today sought to play down the significance of a scathing
first-anniversary verdict on his premiership that saw Labour pushed into fifth
place in the Henley byelection.

In his first public response to the poll, where Labour not only lost its
deposit, winning less than 5% of the vote, but was also beaten by the Greens and
the British National party, the prime minister said: "Byelections come and
byelections go."

In an excellent night for David Cameron, the Conservatives easily held the leafy
Oxfordshire seat, beating back the Liberal Democrat challenge. The Conservative
candidate, John Howell, a local businessman, won with a majority of 10,116, a 4%
increase on his share of the vote at the general election. The turnout was just
over 50%, relatively high for a byelection.

Labour had been bracing itself for the loss if its deposit, but had never
expected to collapse into fifth place. The last time one of the major parties
finished fifth in an English byelection was when the Liberals contested Walsall
North in 1976.

Howell secured 19,796 votes, 56.95%, and a 3.46% increase on the Conservatives'
general election share in 2005. Stephen Kearney, the Liberal Democrat candidate,
won 9,680, a 27.85% share and a 1.84% increase on the Liberal Democrats' 1997
result. The Greens came third with 1,321 votes, (3.80%) and the BNP fourth with
1,243 (3.58%).

Labour was consigned to fifth place with 1,066, securing just 3.07%, down from
14.7% on its 1997 share. It only narrowly avoided coming sixth behind Ukip.

The byelection was caused by the resignation of Boris Johnson following his
election as mayor of London in May. In his victory speech, Howell claimed that
voters had sent an anniversary message to Brown "to get off our backs, stop the
endless tax rises and do a U-turn on the road tax rises".

Welcoming the result this morning, Cameron said: "It is obviously a disastrous
result for the Labour party, but I think I am right in saying it is the first
time in a long time when there has been a contest between Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats when there has been a swing to the Conservatives.

"I think what we are seeing is that people who voted for all sorts of different
parties - including the Liberal Democrats - are now looking at the Conservatives
and saying "Yes, this is an alternative to the government that I can believe
in."

Brown, who was on a visit in Manchester, said: "Of course we have to listen to
what people say.

"But my main job is to improve our public services, to get the economy moving
forward, to make sure that in the health service and education people have the
best services that they want and I am going to continue to do that.

"And I think people know that we are going through difficult times in the
economy. It's my job to steer us through these difficult times."

Martin Salter, the Labour MP for Reading West, said he was "very, very
disappointed" by the result, blaming the Liberal Democrats for a "very nasty
campaign" in which Labour had expected to reap the whirlwind from the oil price
rises.

There had been some fears that star-struck Henley voters would turn against the
relatively anonymous Tory candidate after eight years with the high-profile
Johnson as their MP and nearly a quarter of a century of representation by
Michael Heseltine, the pro-European cabinet minister and one-time challenger to
Margaret Thatcher for the premiership.

This morning Labour headquarters dismissed its humiliation as insignificant,
pointing out that the party was always going to be squeezed in a contest that
inevitably saw anti-Tory voters tactically rallying round the Liberal Democrats.

The scale of the Labour decline in Henley, and humiliating relegation into fifth
place, comes on top of record low personal poll ratings for Brown and the
devastating loss of the once safe Crewe and Nantwich seat last month.

It is unlikely that the terrible result will act as a tipping point for those
cabinet members reluctantly considering whether they should ask Brown to stand
aside, but it will do nothing to boost confidence among Labour MPs in marginal
seats. They will be worried by signs that the Tories can now beat off the
Liberal Democrats, making an overall Tory majority at the next election more
likely.

The relative failure of the Lib Dems to make any progress will be a
disappointment to Nick Clegg.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               12 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 27, 2008

Labour should 'seriously consider' ditching Brown, says Levy

LENGTH: 802 words


Labour should "seriously consider" ditching Gordon Brown following the Henley
byelection drubbing, the party's former chief fundraiser Lord Levy will say
tonight.

As Gordon Brown today sought to play down the significance of a scathing
first-anniversary verdict on his premiership that saw Labour pushed into fifth
place in the Henley byelection, Levy said it was for Labour party members to
decide whether Mr Brown should be sacked.

In an interview for BBC2's Newsnight, Levy added: "I certainly, seeing the
polls, would have to say that this is something that needs to be very seriously
considered."

In his first public response to the poll, where Labour not only lost its
deposit, winning less than 5% of the vote, but was also beaten by the Greens and
the British National party, the prime minister said: "Byelections come and
byelections go."

During a visit to Manchester to launch his new public services reform programme,
Brown added: "Of course we have to listen to what people say.

"But my main job is to improve our public services, to get the economy moving
forward, to make sure that in the health service and education people have the
best services that they want, and I am going to continue to do that.

"And I think people know that we are going through difficult times in the
economy. It's my job to steer us through these difficult times."

In an excellent night for David Cameron, the Conservatives easily held the leafy
Oxfordshire seat, beating back the Liberal Democrat challenge. The Conservative
candidate, John Howell, a local businessman, won with a majority of 10,116, a 4%
increase on his share of the vote at the general election.

The turnout was just over 50%, relatively high for a byelection.Labour had been
bracing itself for the loss if its deposit, but had never expected to collapse
into fifth place.

The last time one of the major parties finished fifth in an English byelection
was when the Liberals contested Walsall North in 1976.

Howell secured 19,796 votes, 56.95%, and a 3.46% increase on the Conservatives'
general election share in 2005. Stephen Kearney, the Liberal Democrat candidate,
won 9,680, a 27.85% share and a 1.84% increase on the Liberal Democrats' 1997
result.

The Greens came third with 1,321 votes, (3.80%) and the BNP fourth with 1,243
(3.58%).

Labour was consigned to fifth place with 1,066, securing just 3.07%, down from
14.7% on its 1997 share. It only narrowly avoided coming sixth behind Ukip.

The byelection was caused by the resignation of Boris Johnson following his
election as mayor of London in May. In his victory speech, Howell claimed that
voters had sent an anniversary message to Brown "to get off our backs, stop the
endless tax rises and do a U-turn on the road tax rises".

Welcoming the result this morning, Cameron said: "It is obviously a disastrous
result for the Labour party, but I think I am right in saying it is the first
time in a long time when there has been a contest between Conservatives and
Liberal Democrats when there has been a swing to the Conservatives.

"I think what we are seeing is that people who voted for all sorts of different
parties - including the Liberal Democrats - are now looking at the Conservatives
and saying, "Yes, this is an alternative to the government that I can believe
in."

Martin Salter, the Labour MP for Reading West, said he was "very, very
disappointed" by the result, blaming the Liberal Democrats for a "very nasty
campaign" in which Labour had expected to reap the whirlwind from the oil price
rises.

There had been some fears that star-struck Henley voters would turn against the
relatively anonymous Tory candidate after eight years with the high-profile
Johnson as their MP and nearly a quarter of a century of representation by
Michael Heseltine, the pro-European cabinet minister and one-time challenger to
Margaret Thatcher for the premiership.

This morning Labour headquarters dismissed its humiliation as insignificant. It
pointed out that the party was always going to be squeezed in a contest that
inevitably saw anti-Tory voters tactically rallying round the Liberal Democrats.

The scale of the Labour decline in Henley, and humiliating relegation into fifth
place, comes on top of record low personal poll ratings for Brown and the
devastating loss of the once safe Crewe and Nantwich seat last month.

It is unlikely that the terrible result will act as a tipping point for those
cabinet members reluctantly considering whether they should ask Brown to stand
aside, but it will do nothing to boost confidence among Labour MPs in marginal
seats.

They will be worried by signs that the Tories can now beat off the Liberal
Democrats, making an overall Tory majority at the next election more likely.

The relative failure of the Lib Dems to make any progress will be a
disappointment to Nick Clegg.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               13 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 27, 2008 Friday 12:25 PM GMT

Why Labour think they lost Henley

BYLINE: By Andrew Porter

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 287 words


Labour in fifth place, behind the BNP and Greens in Henley. Analyse that. Well
this is what one Labour minister has just told me to try and explain the result.
I offer it without prejudice:

1.There was a classic squeeze. The Lib Dems "threw the kitchen sink" at the
contest. Labour had its vote rung almost dry.

2. The minority parties stood up well and their voters rarely shift. The Greens
are also strong in Oxfordshire. They thought Labour would come fourth behind
UKIP, but instead were beaten by the BNP and the Greens.

3. The Labour campaign was deliberately low key. They spent very little
(possibly lower than 10,000) on what was always an unwinnable contest. "If we
could have got away with not fielding a candidate in this one we would have
done."

4. Harriet Harman Effect I. Labour has a problem with white working class men.
So what do they do on polling day? Announce that Harman's new Equality Bill will
discriminate against them.

5. Harriet Harman Effect II. After the Crewe campaign backfired (although they
did not lose their deposit it should be noted) Labour's deputy leader decreed
Henley would see a "positive" Labour campaign.

Like the man who calls the top of the market, I am calling the top of the market
in Labour's by-electioneering as the moment they released - just days before
last July's by-election in Ealing and Southall -  the photograph of "David
Cameron's Conservative" candidate, Tony Lit, glad-handing Tony Blair at a
fundraiser. Lit was badly beaten, but it's been rapidly downhill for Labour ever
since.

Ladbrokes have just issued their latest odds for the next election. The
Conservatives are1/3, Labour are 9/4. And you can get 4/1 on the Tories winning
more than 100 seats.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 27, 2008 Friday

Labour slump to fifth behind BNP in Henley poll

BYLINE:  Philip Webster, Sam Coates

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.5

LENGTH: 742 words


Tory win brings fresh humiliation for Brown

Labour came a humiliating fifth behind the BNP and the Greens last night in the
Henley by-election caused by Boris Johnson's election as London Mayor.

Gordon Brown's first anniversary as Labour leader began with the party securing
only 1,066 votes, losing its £ 500 deposit, and having its working majority in
the House of Commons cut to 65, as John Howell, the Conservative candidate,
succeeded Mr Johnson in the Oxfordshire seat.

The Liberal Democrats consolidated their position in second place through their
candidate, Stephen Kearney, with the Greens' Mark Stevenson in third and Timothy
Rait, of the BNP, in fourth. Richard McKenzie, the Labour candidate, was fifth
with only 3.07 per cent of the vote.

On a 50.5 per cent turnout, the Tories secured 19,796 votes, the Liberal
Democrats 9,680, the Greens 1,321 and the BNP 1,243. The lower turnout than the
67.9 per cent in 2005 meant that the Conservative majority was 10,116.

Mr Howell said that his victory was "a message to Gordon Brown to get off our
backs, stop the endless tax rises and help us cope with the rising cost of
living".

Although Labour have been downplaying expectations over the byelection since it
was announced, claiming that they would lose their deposit with less than 5 per
cent of the vote, Labour MPs still worry that the bad result will further damage
morale.

The Conservatives threw substantial resources into the campaign, with many MPs
visiting Henley several times. They repeated the by-election tactics developed
in Crewe & Nantwich, with significant backing from key figures in an operation
led by Lord Ashcroft.

The Lib Dems also put considerable effort into building up their vote under the
guidance of Lord Rennard, their election guru. They hired large headquarters and
organised repeated visits with Nick Clegg, the party leader. The seat is home
turf for Mr Clegg, as he spent his teenage years in the Oxfordshire village of
Chinnor.

Labour MPs will hope that policy announcements will distract from the bad news,
continuing next week with the review of healthcare provision by Lord Darzi, the
health minister.

There was a small glimmer of hope for the party last night in a YouGov poll,
which indicated that the number who would vote Labour in a general election had
risen five points from last month to 28 per cent. The Tories had slipped back
one point to 46 per cent.

However, the poll also recorded that 76 per cent were dissatisfied with Mr Brown
as Prime Minister, with 49 per cent saying that he was doing a worse job than
Tony Blair.

The Prime Minister suffered a further blow yesterday when it emerged that Beth
Russell, one of his most trusted aides, would return to the Treasury late next
month. The trade magazine PR Week reported that Jeremy Heywood, the Permanent
Secretary at No 10, was trawling government departments to find a replacement
for Ms Russell, who has been a member of "team Brown" for nearly a decade.

This comes after the departure of Spencer Livermore as strategy director and
Fiona Gordon, who is stepping down as political secretary.

Although the mood of Labour backbenchers continues to be poor, there is no
appetite for a coup to overthrow the Prime Minister in the near future.

David Miliband, one possible successor, refused to confirm or deny his
ambitions. Asked in an interview whether he wanted to be leader in the future,
he said: "I am not going there. I am utterly determined to be a very good
Foreign Secretary in a Gordon Brown Government. All other speculation is
literally idle." Mr Miliband joked about Mr Brown's woes. "I am in the slightly
odd position of predicting it would be like this," he said, referring to his
appearance a year ago on Question Time, when he said that people would soon be
calling for Mr Blair to come back.

Now the focus will turn to the Haltemprice and Howden by-election, where David
Davis, the former Shadow Home Secretary, will be re-elected on a civil liberties
platform.

Results

C hold John Howell (C) 19,796 (57%, +3.5%) Stephen Kearney (LD) 9,680 (28%,
+1.8%) Mark Stevenson (Green) 1,321 (3.8%, +0.5%) Timothy Rait (BNP) 1,243
(3.6%) Richard McKenzie (Lab) 1,066 (3.1%, -11.7%) Chris Adams (UKIP) 843 (2.4%,
-0.1%) Bananaman Owen (Loony) 242 (0.70%) Derek Allpass (Eng Dem) 157 (0.45%) C
maj 10,116 (29.1%) 0.81% swing LD to C Turnout 34,761 (50.3%, 17.6%) (2005 C maj
12,793)

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday

Straight to the Point

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 158 words


WHATEVER Nigel Farage s UK Independence Party stands for, at least its members
believe in democracy and respecting the vote of the people, unlike Brian Cowen,
Avril Doyle and Brian Crowley   all showing contempt for the Irish citizen and
advocacy for the new EU despots.

MARCUS McMAHON, Dún Laoghaire.

THE people of Ireland and of Europe are in great debt of gratitude to the voters
who rejected the Lisbon treaty despite the threats and the bullying of the
yes-men and women. No sooner was the ink dry on the result when the people who
voted No were subjected to a vile, vicious abuse from out-of-touch politicians
and some of their backers in the media.

JOE McDONALD, Leixlip, Co. Kildare.

SOME time in 2007, an Italian diplomat was put forward for high office in the
EU. This man was highly qualified and was eminently suitable for the
appointment. He was eventually turned down because of his Christian ethos!
BERNARD KILLEEN, Ennis, Co. Clare.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday
                                 3 Star Edition

LAB VOTE GLOOM

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 57 words


LABOUR faces losing its deposit in today's by-election.

With the Tories almost certain of victory, Labour are expected to get less than
five per cent of the votes. It would be a severe blow to Mr Brown, the day
before his first anniversary as Prime Minister.

Insiders fear the party could even be beaten into fourth place by the Greens or
UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: BLOW Mr Brown

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                             June 26, 2008 Thursday

Comment - Let us have our say

LENGTH: 516 words


Stuart Wheeler's announcement that he will appeal against the High Court
decision to throw out his case to make the government honour its pledge to hold
a referendum on the EU constitution should be supported by all democrats.

There is only one reason for the government's refusal to hold a referendum and
that is the certainty that it would lose.

It is nonsensical to pretend that the EU constitution and the Lisbon Treaty are
substantially different.

Many leading EU politicians and those who drafted the treaty have boasted that
it is essentially the same document that was rejected in referendums by the
French and Dutch voters.

Yet Gordon Brown and his Eurocentralist ministers remain wedded to the fiction
that it is simply a tidying-up exercise.

The greatest difficulty for opponents of this plan to take the European Union in
a further centralising direction is that the government has refused to debate
the issues.

It has resorted to the same old tactics of smearing the opponents of a
centralised and unaccountable EU superstate as xenophobes or Little Englanders,
ignoring that phrase's origin as a term of abuse in the 19th century against
those opposed to imperial expansion.

Irish ministers flaunted their ignorance of what the treaty contained, with
Irish EU commissioner Charlie McCreevy voicing his view that you would have to
be mad to even try to understand it.

These people are not mad. Nor are they ignorant, but they know that voters would
not knowingly back a document that would undermine their democratic rights, as
Lisbon does.

So they rely on political knockabout and trivialisation of the issues.

Opposition to the remorseless process towards an undemocratic, unaccountable,
neoliberal, military superstate is not the preserve of the political right, as
much as the UKIP and Tory parties would like it to be. When the French and Dutch
voters rejected the constitution, the labour movement of both countries was at
the heart of the No campaign.

The successful Irish opposition to Nice was carried through by a groundswell of
local campaigns, with trade unions such as Unite at their heart and Sinn Fein
the only major political party backing a No.

All the establishment parties and, shamefully, the Irish Congress of Trade
Unions backed the treaty, despite the commitment to marketisation and
privatisation and greater powers for the European Court of Justice.

This is the court that, in recent months, has kicked trade unions in the teeth
over its interpretation of the posting directive, allowing employers to
undermine collective agreements on pay and conditions in one country by posting
workers from another member state.

The Lisbon Treaty ought to be dead already according to the rules of the game,
which demanded unanimous approval.

But the fiddlers are fiddling again. The fixers who demand referendum reruns
until voters are ground down into voting the right way are insisting that
Ireland should find a way to frustrate its own democratic decision.

That reality alone should show what is at stake and prove why it is necessary
that the people of Britain should have their say.

LOAD-DATE: June 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 24, 2008 Tuesday

Politics: Political briefing Tories look forward to jolly voting weather

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 820 words


A big event is looming over the ancient riverside town of Henley. But it is not
Thursday's byelection to succeed Boris Johnson as MP for the town and its
gorgeous, well-heeled rural hinterland. The big one is the annual regatta - and
local shops are ready for the starter's pistol on July 2. There is a solitary
Tory poster on Henley bridge.

But the byelection is trundling along towards its predictable conclusion. In
choosing to stage it quickly after mayor Boris stepped down, David Cameron has
closed off the only potential upset scenario, a Liberal Democrat insurgency.

Things might have been different if Johnson's colourful tenure as MP since 2001,
or the manner of his departure for bigger things, had offended Henley. On the
contrary, he seems to be remembered with affection.

So much so that the Lib Dems last week published an election flyer in which
Boris's photo is artfully included twice in such a way that innocent voters
might think he is endorsing Nick Clegg's candidate, Stephen Kearney.

Demanding its withdrawal, London's mayor denounced another "shameful exercise in
misrepresentation" by his second-placed local rivals, who claim that - at one
time or another - most council wards in the constituency have fallen their way.
However, Johnson's majority in 2005 was a hefty 12,793.

Both main contenders have been accusing each other of dirty tricks, for instance
printing leaflets with no clear party label (both are guilty), or unfairly
claiming credit for helping save the 120-bed Townland hospital from closure.
Tory candidate and local county councillor John Howell is said to have done
that.

According to the Lib Dems, Howell gave advice to developers who want to build
too much in South Oxfordshire's green and pleasant villages. According to the
Tories, Kearney's campaign has been making "scurrilous" and inaccurate charges
about budget cuts and poor results in local schools.

Before making his fourth visit so far in the campaign on Friday morning (it is
handily en route to his own adjacent patch at Witney), Cameron did an early turn
for BBC Radio Berkshire to denounce the Lib Dems' "deeply negative and
disgraceful campaign".

He even threatened legal action. "The Tories should be playing down by-election
stories, not building them up. It shows they're running scared. People are
saying, 'We used to vote for Boris, he was a good MP. We're not sure about the
new chap'," counters Chris Leaman, the Lib Dems' campaign organiser.

But it will take more than routine political knockabout to disturb the
prosperous calm of Henley, where the average price of a house is £820,000 and
"top-hatted toffs" of the kind that disfigured Labour's campaign in Crewe are a
normal part of the scenery.

The Henley Standard ("Big Guns in Town") is suitably sceptical about such claims
and some voters passing the handsome Queen Anne town hall seem stuck for
something to complain about. "Rowdy teenagers look threatening late at night,"
admits one well-dressed pensioner, before spoiling it by adding: "I'm sure
they're not really."

Dig a little harder and the visitor finds worries about unsuitable building
developments, traffic jams in narrow streets, the risk of pub, shop and GP
surgery closures in villages and the rising cost of fuel in rural areas where
cars are a necessity. Cameron plays on them skilfully.

As for First Great Western's branch line rail service taking commuters to
London, it is sometimes "so bad that the passengers went on strike recently," he
told students at the 880-strong Gillotts comprehensive school on the outskirts
of town.

In truth there are pockets of poverty in places like Berinsford, but Henley has
few grounds for complaint. So Labour's Richard McKenzie, a marketing man from
Reading, is going through the motions. So are the nine minor candidates, who
range from Ukip and the BNP to Harry the Bear and two Miss Great Britains -
blonde and brunette.

Running much harder is Kearney. Before his selection in May he lived 200 miles
away in Plymouth. But local reporters rate him for his energy and accessibility.
Last week he drew an audience of 200 to a meeting in Dorchester. Clegg, whose
parents live nearby, has visited six times.

Ministers and shadow ministers have poured in too. "Henley has prospered under
the Labour government," Harriet Harman told the Henley Standard. At Gillotts
school Cameron stresses local decision-making ("that's what politics are all
about") along with his green credentials. They include decent feed-in-tariffs
for householders who generate their own energy. Is it happening here? asks a
student. "No, because we have a useless government. We need a new one, LED BY
ME," he replies, slapping the desk in mock solemnity.

At his leader's side, Howell - uncharismatic but self-confident and articulate -
does not attempt to compete. But he looks a safe enough pair of hands to join
the backbench Tory ranks on Thursday if Cameron's run of luck holds.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 23, 2008 Monday

MEP arrested

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.4

LENGTH: 59 words


A member of the European Parliament has been arrested by British police on
suspicion of obtaining money by deception. Tom Wise, 60, an independent MEP for
the Eastern region since 2004, was given bail. Mr Wise, from Leighton Buzzard in
Bedfordshire, was suspended from the UK Independence Party last year over
allegations that he had embezzled EU funds.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 June 22, 2008
                                 First Edition

British MEP is bailed after police arrest him on suspicion of fraud;
:: EUROPE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 104 words


A British member of the European Parliament has been arrested on suspicion of
obtaining money by deception. MEP for the East, Tom Wise, 60, was questioned by
police on Friday about an alleged fraud. He was later given bail. The former
policeman, who was elected for the UK Independence Party for the East of
England, had the party whip withdrawn in 2007 after an investigation was
launched into his expenses. Mr Wise now sits as an independent. One of seven
MEPs covering the East of England, Mr Wise, from Leighton Buzzard in
Bedfordshire, represents Suffolk, Essex, Norfolk, Cambridgeshire, Bedfordshire
and Hertfordshire.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 85 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                             June 22, 2008, Sunday

EURO MP HELD IN CASH PROBE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 91 words


A BRIT Euro MP has been arrested on suspicion of getting money by deception.

Tom Wise was held on behalf of European Parliament officials in Brussels.

He is on bail while cops probe the complaint.

Mr Wise, of Leighton Buzzard, Beds, hit the headlines last month when he
allegedly told an undercover reporter he "milks the taxpayer for thousands every
week in allowance and expenses claims".

He later denied any wrong-doing.

Mr Wise was suspended by UKIP last year over complaints about money he had
claimed to pay staff.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.

                               22 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                                 3 Star Edition

TOM WISE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 32 words


POLICE have arrested UK Independence Party Euro-MP Tom Wise over allegations
that he has fiddled his expenses. The probe came after Mr Wise allegedly boasted
of the large allowances claims he made.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                                 1 Star Edition

POLICE HAVE ARRESTED

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 35 words


POLICE have arrested UK Independence Party Euro-MP Tom Wise over allegations he
fiddled his expenses. The probe came after Mr Wise allegedly boasted of the
large allowances claims he made. He denies any wrongdoing.

LOAD-DATE: June 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 22, 2008

British MEP arrested over fraud claims

BYLINE:  Daniel Foggo

SECTION: HOME NEWS; News; Pg.5

LENGTH: 264 words


A BRITISH member of the European parliament has been arrested over allegations
that he embezzled tens of thousands of pounds of taxpayers' money by claiming it
was for an assistant's salary.

Tom Wise, who won his seat with the United Kingdom Independence party (UKIP) in
2004, has been questioned by police as a result of a Sunday Times investigation.

Officers in Bedfordshire, where Wise lives, acted after being alerted by the
European Union's anti-fraud watchdog, Olaf. Detectives, who have already
interviewed a number of potential witnesses, including the Sunday Times reporter
who broke the story, questioned Wise on Friday.

A police spokesman said:

"A man has been arrested on suspicion of obtaining money transfer by deception.
He was interviewed at Luton and released on police bail." No charges have yet
been made.

The investigation concerns allegations that Wise, a former policeman, claimed £
3,000 a month under his EU assistance allowance for a researcher, Lindsay
Jenkins, even though he had agreed to pay her a basic retainer of only one-sixth
that amount. The money went into his bank account and he used some of it to buy
a car.

Once the scandal was exposed, Wise repaid £ 25,530, but the affair is
embarrassing to UKIP, which has campaigned against the EU "gravy train".

After The Sunday Times detailed the extent of the alleged embezzlement last
year, UKIP withdrew the whip from Wise.

Wise, who has always denied any wrongdoing, said last night he had voluntarily
attended the police station and agreed to return for a further interview.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: st


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Europe tel ls the Irish:'You just don't get it';
People voting 'No' to treaty were 'ignorant and confused'

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 6

LENGTH: 721  words


VOTERS in Ireland who threw out the Lisbon Treaty failed to understand its
benefits, according to a European Commission study into the reasons for the
rejection.

The survey conducted in the days after the poll blames the electorate because
they "did not know enough about the Treaty".

It says only five per cent were "against the idea of a unified Europe". The
study raises the prospect that a second referendum will now be imposed on
Ireland.

European leaders meeting in the wake of the vote agreed to put the deal on hold
until the next European Council summit in four months.

Under the treaty's terms, rejection by a single member state should halt plans
for sweeping reform.

But Ireland's No vote has sent Eurocrats scrambling for a way to keep the treaty
alive.

Hopes of it coming into force by January are fading but Eurocrats are desperate
for an introduction in time for next June's European elections.

French President Nicolas Sarkozy, who takes over the European Presidency in
July, has already declared he wants to see a second referendum in Ireland.

And the Commission's study suggests that voters will face a fresh national poll
after a sustained campaign to "educate" the electorate.

The Eurobarometer survey, which interviewed 2,000 voters, concludes that over
half the people who failed to give their blessing in the referendum acted "due
to a lack of understanding of the issues".

The "prime motivation" for Yes voters "centred around how Ireland has benefited
from the EU" and the feeling that "Lisbon was in Ireland's best interests".

But the report concludes the reasons motivating the No camp were a mixture of
ignorance and confusion.

A "lack of information" about Lisbon was the main reason given by 22 per cent,
followed by 12 per cent who wanted to protect Irish identity.

But in a sample survey of "informed" voters 42 per cent thought Lisbon was good
for Ireland, compared to 41 per cent who thought it was bad. Nigel Farage,
leader of the UK Independence Party, said:

"My own view is there is going to be a second vote in Ireland and if it's on
this treaty they will get a second No.

"The more the Irish people are intimidated and bullied into voting Yes the more
inclined they will be to vote No." Eighteen nations have already ratified the
Treaty, leaving eight - including Britain - to complete the process.

The EU Bill received its Third Reading in the Lords last Wednesday and was
rushed for Royal Assent on Thursday. But for Britain's ratification to go ahead
the "instruments of ratification" documents must be lodged in Rome.

The Prime Minister has been forced to put that final step on ice pending a
challenge by Eurosceptic millionaire Stuart Wheeler. The tycoon brought a
Judicial Review against the Government for failing to stage a promised
referendum.

And High Court judge Lord Justice Richards rebuked ministers on Friday for
appearing to press ahead with ratification before he had handed down his ruling.

He said: "The court is very surprised that the Government apparently proposes to
ratify while the claimant's challenge to the decision not to hold a referendum
on ratification is before the court.

"The court expects judgment to be handed down next week. The defendants are
invited to stay their hand voluntarily until judgment." His comments forced
Gordon Brown to back down, saying "ratification will not take place until we
have had the judgment from the judge." In a two-day hearing at the High Court
earlier this month, Mr Wheeler's lawyers argued that he had a "legitimate
expectation" of a vote on the treaty after ministers promised a referendum on
the failed EU Constitution, which it replaces.

They argued the treaty and EU Constitution - rejected by voters in France and
the Netherlands in 2005 - were the same in all but name.

Both plan for an elected European President, a Foreign Affairs Minister and
streamlined voting procedures - ending Britain's veto in 55 policy areas.
Although the ruling is expected to go against Mr Wheeler, the spreadbetting
tycoon is "very likely" to take his case to the Court of Appeal - delaying
ratification further.

Eurocrats also face a threat from the Czech Parliament, which suspended
ratification last week.

Czech prime minister Mirek Topolanek said: "I am not going to force MPs to back
Lisbon and I wouldn't give 100 crowns (GBP 3) on a Czech 'yes'."

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SUPPORT: Eurosceptic MPs at the Strasbourg parliament call for the
outcome of the Irish referendum on the Lisbon Treaty to be respected

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               26 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 22, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Euro 2008 is easier if you go Deutsch;
Review TV & Radio

BYLINE: By David Stephenson

SECTION: FEATURES; 62

LENGTH: 679  words


WE ARE all Europeans now.

Football has seen to that. For want of anything else on the box last week, I
found myself enjoying, a long with the lovely, robust-looking Angela Merkel,
Austria versus Germany in UEFA Euro 2008 (BBC1, Monday).

Never has a match been so oversold (much like Europe).

Right "from the off", "no quarter was given" in "the biggest match in Austrian
history" (not much competition there) in a "game of games" that "the whole
nation has been dreaming about". Not this one  I had never been so emotionally
exhausted before a match had even begun.

After a brief moment of souls earching I decided to support Germany. My new
motto is " England expects  Germany".

Controversial, yes, but the war is now a distant memory (to some) so "just go
with it", I thought.

I would normally support the underdog but I could ignore this tournament because
England weren't playing.

There is a very real sense of relief watching these matches without a home
nation, even though it means that nothing else is on because of it. We don't
have the usual trauma associated with supporting England, for instance, where we
watch the life slowly drain from the face of the luckless, overpaid manager who
has taken them to another ill-fated penalty shoot-out. In Euro 2008, you just
sit back, relax and say things like " football is the real winner".

Teams that you used to hate are now bringing you great delight.

As the brilliant Michael Ballack slammed that ball into the back of the net, I
was the happiest Germany/England/Australia supporter in all of south London.

Angela and I simultaneously jumped for joy. She slightly less than me.

My elation, however, was short-lived when I discovered that pundit Alan Hansen
was tipping this now great nation to win. I'm not going to accept the opinion of
a man who has been shopping from a discarded C&A catalogue. It was enough to
shatter the HD.

Naturally, Angela and I were also far from impressed with the awful behaviour of
the two fraught managers who were sent off from pitch-side for looking
menacingly at each other. This is not what we want from the European project.

I expect they will both be severely rapped and asked to form a committee, with
all expenses paid.

Isn't Europe wonderful?

BILLIE PIPER returned to Doctor Who last night (BBC1) but I confess I couldn't
make any sense of it whatsoever. Called Turn Left, and written by Russell T
Davies, it was all about Donna (Catherine Tate) driving in the opposite
direction to take up a different job, rather than the position she ended up with
at the consultants' firm. Phew  I'd been really troubled by that.

The thing was when she took up the new post people kept looking at her shoulder,
believing they could see something spooky. And they were right  It was Bernard
Cribbins, playing her dad. He said things like, "They're watching us." Yes, we
are, Bernard, but we're now wondering why.

Then into this rather confused lot walked Rose (Billie Piper).

Thankfully, Piper is diverting enough to make you less concerned about the plot.
She appeared, then disappeared, then appeared again before "the darkness"
descended over London.

Ever the one to strike a forced political note, Davies had immigrants being
loaded into trucks and taken back to their homelands. "England for the English!"
people were saying, like a jolly gathering of UKIP members.

The Doctor, bizarrely, was nowhere to be seen. He was dead, apparently, but
maybe in a parallel world. All we knew for certain was that we couldn't be
certain of anything. Finally, David Tennant did grace us with his presence to
reiterate that things were quite bad ("the end of the universe", or something
similar) under the banner of "Bad Wolf".

The episode was also very light on aliens, with an oversized black bug - oooh! -
crawling up Donna's back. There was also a large piece of tin foil zapping the
stars.

Doctor Who has been scaled back to four specials next year, followed by a full
series. In the meantime, I think they all need to go away to dream up some truly
dastardly goings-on.

Black bugs? They've got nothing on Angela Merkel.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: REUNITED: Piper and Tennant in a confusing episode of Dr Who

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

Our troops deserve better than this

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 581 words


THE LAST thing anybody needs in central Africa right now is another war   least
of all the war of words that broke out this week between the UN High
Commissioner for Refugees and the Irish Army peacekeeping force in Chad. Indeed,
that much was tacitly admitted in yesterday s grovelling apology by the UN s
official representative to the commander of the Irish battalion.

But the fact that the row broke out at all is a graphic illustration of the
dilemma our troops are facing in that benighted country   and of the appalling
difficulties faced by any band of soldiers who volunteer to keep the peace under
the blue flag of the UN, especially in a country such as Chad where armed rebels
and the government in power are openly at war.

Defence Minister Willie O Dea yesterday insisted that the Irish troops are not a
police force. Nor, equally obviously, are they an army of occupation like the
U.S. and British forces in Iraq; nor, of course, would we want them to be.

So what then is their mission? What precisely is their role? What should they do
if they see rebel soldiers firing on civilians   or, for that matter, if they
see government troops acting improperly? If they themselves open fire in such a
situation, they will inevitably be accused of taking sides.

Indeed, and without wishing in any way to denigrate the brave soldiers who have
volunteered for this particular tour of UN duty and all those others who have
served under the blue flag over the past four decades, how much can 400 Irish
troops actually achieve in a country three times the size of France?

If there is one lesson to be learned from this week s unfortunate spat, it is
the need for greater clarity   a clear mission statement, setting out what is
expected of our soldiers, and a clear and concrete set of rules of engagement
for each and every conceivable scenario they may face.

Whatever happens, we should not allow them to become pawns in a diplomatic game
of chess. They   and we   deserve better than that.

Yes Taoiseach, it s No

WHEN will it finally sink into Brian Cowen s skull? The Irish electorate voted
No to Lisbon; the Yes campaign, which he himself headed up, failed. That is the
way democracy works. And it is the nature of democracy that politicians listen
to the will of the people, even if they do not like it, and move on accordingly.

But Mr Cowen, for one, appears chronically incapable of accepting as much.
Yesterday, he was at it again   comparing the Irish voters to  misguided  groups
such as Ukip and Jean Marie le Pen s National Front and suggesting that  proud
Irishmen and women should be uneasy that organisations such as these have
welcomed our decision.

Sorry, Taoiseach, it is irrelevant what Ukip and the National Front   or, for
that matter, anybody else in Europe   think. We are, luckily, still a sovereign
people; the Irish electorate made up their own minds. That is what should be
uppermost in the minds of proud Irishmen and women.

It is you, and not the voters, who ought to be uneasy   instead of engaging once
again in the sort of bullyboy scare tactics that served the Yes cause so badly
in the referendum campaign.

Wash-up time, boys

SO WOMEN work longer hours than men and do twice as much housework   even when
both partners hold down jobs outside the home. That will hardly come as a
surprise to those of our readers who fall into this hard-working category.

But it might encourage a few more men to clear away the breakfast things this
morning. Then again, maybe not!

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

Cowen tells Dáil: EU extremists rejoice in Irish No vote to Treaty

BYLINE: Niamh Lyons

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 562 words


TAOISEACH Brian Cowen yesterday said that Ireland had aligned herself with
right-wing extremists   like France s National Front   by voting No to the
Lisbon Treaty referendum.

Groups such as the UK Independence Party, headed by Nigel Farage, have also used
Ireland s resounding No vote to score goals that are adverse to Ireland s
interests, Mr Cowen said.

During a four-hour Dáil debate on the issues surrounding the electorate s
decision not to endorse the treaty Mr Cowen said:  There are some individuals
and groups across Europe who now wish to claim the Irish people as their new
friends. They are headed by the likes of Jean-Marie Le Pen and Nigel Farage. No
proud Irish man or woman could but be uneasy that they rejoice in our decision.

Let us be under no illusions about why they are rejoicing: it is because they
believe they can use the vote of our people to serve their misguided political
goals   goals that Ireland does not and never will share   goals that are
inimical to our interests.

Mr Cowen also declared that Ireland faces a period of  uncertainty  in the wake
of last week s No vote.

He added:  While I respect the outcome of the referendum   we are now dealing
with its consequences. My view remains that Ireland s future is bound with
Europe s. As I said, we now face uncertainty and we face a great challenge.

Meanwhile, Britain last night became the 19th European Union country to ratify
the treaty without a referendum, after the EU Amendment Bill completed its
passage through parliament.

The Westminster parliament s upper chamber, the House of Lords, gave the
ratification Bill its third reading without a vote. Royal Assent is expected by
this evening.

But it was also confirmed last night that the Lisbon treaty will not meet the EU
deadline for ratification of January 1, 2009.

EU states within the 27-bloc Eurozone were required to have ratified their
treaties by then, but a Foreign Affairs spokesman said the chances of the Treaty
coming into force by that date is  remote .

The Dáil debate took place before Mr Cowen s trip to Brussels today where he
will attend meetings alongside Foreign Affairs Minister Micheál Martin, and the
Minister of State Dick Roche.

The debate was opened for the opposition by Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny who said
the No campaigns were based on  lies .

This was done with the clear intent to confuse people and create doubts in their
minds,  he said.

Mr Kenny also noted that confusion about the treaty was a  contributory factor
and blamed former taoiseach Bertie Ahern for the public s bewilderment with
Lisbon.

Confusion was increased by the fact that when I asked the Taoiseach s
predecessor on numerous occasions to name the date for the referendum in order
that we could get on with it, he chose, for his own reasons, not to do so.

Labour leader Eamon Gilmore said:  The absence of a unified theme that could be
related to the everyday lives of our people meant that from day one we were
explaining, and in politics when one is explaining one is losing,  he said.

Sinn Féin  s Caoimhghín Ó Caoláin said that Ireland s No vote was an  important
test  for how democracy is adhered to in Europe.

He added:  The question is whether the Irish Government has the political will
and courage to give voice to the concerns of the electorate as expressed in last
week s referendum.

Comment   Page 12 niamh.lyons@dailymail.ie

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               29 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday
                                  Eire Edition

FAR RIGHT FRINGE GO ALL OIRISH;
LISBON: THE FALLOUT

BYLINE: BY PAT FLANAGAN

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 234 words


FAR-right groups unfurled a banner in the European Parliament yesterday praising
Irish voters for rejecting the Lisbon Treaty.

British Eurosceptic MEPs togged out in green jerseys and leprechaun hats held
placards urging Parliament colleagues to respect the No vote.

The protesters were members of UK Independence Party, once led by former TV host
Robert Kilroy-Silk.

Yesterday in the Dail Taoiseach Brian Cowen warned voters they have been taken
under the wing of the extreme right.

He said Irish people were not proud to see France's National Front leader Jean
Marie le Pen rejoicing in the referendum result.

The Taoiseach will explain the shock result to EU leaders in Brussels today and
seek to plot a future for Ireland within the 27-state bloc.

Mr Cowen said: "There are some who now wish to claim the Irish people as their
new friends.

"They are headed by Jean Marie le Pen or Ukip leader Nigel Farrage.

I believe no proud Irishman or woman could but be uneasy that they rejoice in
our decision."

Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny blamed the rejection of the treaty and a mixture of
"misinformation" and complacency and added: "There was a confusion factor out
there."

Sinn Fein is to meet with MEPS from France and the Netherlands - who both
rejected the EU Constitution in 2005 - in Brussels today.

Sinn Fein MEP Mary Lou McDonald said: "I firmly believe that a better deal is
possible for Ireland and the EU."

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 19, 2008 Thursday 8:42 PM GMT

Irish Europhiles play the blame game

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 467 words


Ah, so it's all the fault of the Brits. Irish Europhiles can't bring themselves
to admit that 862,415 of their countrymen might have made up their own minds
about the European ConstitutionLisbon Treaty. No one could independently have
reached the view that the whole thing is bad for democracy. The poor saps must
somehow have been taking the Saxon shilling.

The protest which enraged Irish Europhiles

In an editorial called "our nasty new friends", The Irish Independent lays into
the foreigners who supposedly backed the "No" campaign: Jean-Marie Le Pen,
British Tories and UKIP extremists. "'Help' from those bizarre new 'friends'
must be rejected with scorn , and perhaps a touch of the blackthorn," it
concludes. Charming.

The paper was commenting on a demonstration in the European Parliament, which I
describe today in Britain's foremost online newspaper, The First Post. For the
record, the protest was cross-party and multi-national. Euro-MPs from 14
countries and five out of the eight political groups took part. Neither Le Pen
nor any of the far Right parties was involved. Not that this prevented Avril
Doyle a Euro-fanatical Fine Gael MEP, from alleging that the whole thing had
been got up by "a motley collection of extreme Right-wing Brits."

Alright, Avril is Avril. One of the likeable things about her is that she speaks
her mind, and I can understand why, in the aftermath of the "No" vote, she might
feel testy. But Brian Cowen has less excuse. He solemnly told the Dil that the
"No" campaign had been "headed by the likes of Jean-Marie Le Pen and Nigel
Farage. No proud Irish man or woman could but be uneasy that they rejoice in our
decision." Actually, Taoiseach, despite repeated efforts by the "Yes" campaign
to involve both UKIP and Le Pen in the referendum, they declined. They took the
view that it was a decision for the Irish people and, as far as I know, continue
to take that view. If only all your fellow heads of government could say the
same thing, eh?

Anyway, I'm not sure that Irish politicians can guarantee themselves popularity
by blaming everything on the UK. A happy consequence of the referendum is that
relations between the UK and Ireland are better than ever. If you took a poll in
Britain tomorrow, Irish people would be our favourite Europeans by a mile; I
suspect the same would be true in every other EU country that was denied a
referendum. At the same time, the Europhile governments of the two states have
been pushed together by their mutual unpopularity on this issue.

And let's just remind ourselves what the fuss is about. The thing that Avril and
Biffo and the Irish Independent took offence at was the slogan "Respect the
Irish Vote". What part of that phrase do they find insulting?

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 19, 2008 Thursday 2:31 PM GMT

Hereditary peers overwhelmingly rejected the Lisbon Treaty

BYLINE: By Gerald Warner

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 372 words


Further to my earlier post predicting that the surviving hereditary peers would
patriotically vote in the national interest to postpone ratification of the
Lisbon Treaty in yesterday's House of Lords debate, the voting lists which have
now been published show that my instinct was correct.

Marquess of Cholmondeley was excluded from voting

Of the 92 hereditary peers still in the upper house, two are excluded from
voting as royal household officers: the Duke of Norfolk, as Earl Marshal, and
the Marquess of Cholmondeley, as Lord Great Chamberlain.

From the remaining 90, there were 64 who voted yesterday. They divided 50
against ratification of the "treaty", 14 in favour.

The 50 seeking to defer ratification consisted of 40 Conservatives, nine Cross
Benchers and one UKIP peer. The pro-Europeans were made up of six Cross
Benchers, four Liberal Democrats and four Labour peers.

It should perhaps be noted, however, that seven hereditary peers who were
excluded from the House in 1999 but brought back as working Life Peers also
voted for Lisbon.

These were, from the Labour benches, Viscount Chandos and Lords Acton, Berkeley,
Grenfell, and Ponsonby of Shulbrede.

There were also two Liberal Democrats: the Earl of Mar and Kellie and Lord
Redesdale, clearly not as xenophobic as his predecessor, so hilariously
caricatured by his daughter Nancy Mitford.

A similar anomaly is the fact that Lord Selkirk of Douglas, who voted against
Lisbon, disclaimed the earldom of Selkirk, though now sitting as a life peer.

Considering their greatly reduced strength, the 50 anti-Treaty hereditaries
constituted a disproportionate percentage of the 184 ermined dissenters from
Lisbon.

This was a creditable performance by the hereditary aristocracy. It was swamped,
however, by New Labour creations, including the noble Lord Watson of Invergowrie
who was responsible for the legislation banning hunting in Scotland and later
served a prison term for fire-raising in a hotel.

Happily for the interests of the great European ideal, he did not feel too
abashed to attend the upper house and vote for his country's further absorption
into the Brussels federation. Noblesse oblige.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                       June 19, 2008 Thursday 4:54 AM GMT

Lisbon Treaty: Eurocrats start to panic

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 378 words


Full coverage of UK politics
Something has happened to the Euro-integrationists. The fight is leaving them.
They are starting to look scared.

Demonstrating in Strasbourg with my fellow Tory MEP Roger Helmer

"We pro-Europeans have lost our passion," lamented the Socialist leader, Martin
Schulz, in the chamber this morning. "It has all migrated to the other side". He
sounded so forlorn, so bewildered, that I started feeling sorry for the chap.

Needless to say, my sympathy was unreciprocated.I and agroup of Euro-sceptic
MEPs conducted a silent demonstration in the hemicycle today, wearing tee-shirts
emblazoned with "Respect the Irish Vote". It's hard to see how any offence can
be construed from these words, but offence was taken. We were jostled and
shouted at and roundly insulted. We were called "populists" and "fear-mongers"
and "liars" and "a Right-wing rabble".

Euro-MPs are lashing out with the fury of frightened men. They can see things
slipping away from them. As Bruno Waterfield reported, the polls conducted in
Ireland since the vote contain findings that harrow up their souls, make their
two eyes, like stars, start from their spheres, their knotted and combined locks
to part, and each particular hair to stand on end like quills upon the fretful
porpentine. In Ireland, as on the Continent, "Yes" voters are overwhelmingly
over 50. Small wonder that the federalists are panicking.

Angst makes them ratty. They can't be openly rude about their own voters, of
course, so they take it out on us. Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, was delighted
to be named by Brian Cowen before the Dail as the instigator of the "No" vote
as if 862,415 Irish voters could not have made their minds up without being
manipulated by foreigners.

After the French and Dutch "No" votes in 2005, Eurocrats went into denial. The
voters, they convinced themselves, hadn't really meant it. They had been voting
against Turkey, or against Chirac, or against Anglo-Saxon liberalism. This time,
though, the grisly truth is sinking in. Euro-federalists simply can't win
anywhere, ever. No wonder they're in such a foul temper.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               33 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 19, 2008 Thursday

Happy birthday

BYLINE:  Russell Twisk

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg.31

LENGTH: 127 words


Though John Hind, Bishop of Chichester, was appointed seven years ago, he used
his maiden speech in April in the House of Lords to support the Lisbon treaty;
an action which drew fiery criticisms from his local MEP and UKIP. Earlier, the
former secondary schoolteacher and "Bishop of Europe" led the opposition against
the appointment of women bishops. This year he is marking the 50th anniversary
of the death of his controversial predecessor, Bishop George Bell, with talks
and publications. John Hind, who is away, is 63 today. RGT

Other birthdays Aung San Suu Kyi, co-founder, National League for Democracy,
Burma, 63; Boris Johnson, Mayor of London and Editor, The Spectator, 1999 2005,
44; Sir Salman Rushdie, writer, 61; Kathleen Turner, actress, 54.

LOAD-DATE: June 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               34 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday

A clunking, bullying mess;
LETTERS

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 64

LENGTH: 271 words


AS A member of the United Kingdom Independence Party, I'm tired of hearing the
membership described as 'eccentric'.

On holiday lately, I met people from many different parts of Britain. I asked
them if they could tell me how our lives were improved by having been part of
the European Community. Nobody thought that they were.

In view of the huge amounts we hand over each year, could anyone enlighten me by
listing five ways in which we are better off by being part of this wasteful,
gluttonous bullying mess? I'd really like to know.

E. V. CROWTHER, Edinburgh.

THE Irish have had the courage to disobey the EU and their politicians by voting
against the Lisbon Treaty.

According to EU law, this should kill off the Treaty as unanimity is required,
but Gordon Brown has been reported as saying he will go ahead and sign its
ratification.

This would be the culmination of his and Tony Blair's treacherous conspiracy
with the other arrogant and dishonourable EU 'leaders' to impose on Europe the
Constitution rejected by the French and Dutch voters in referendums.

By changing one or two words and calling it a treaty, they said it was not the
same as the rejected Constitution (although the main provisions were retained)
and did not need referendums.

This negated the French and Dutch 'no' votes and enabled Blair and Brown to
renege on Labour's promise to give us a referendum by claiming the Lisbon Treaty
was not the same.

There is no stopping these unscrupulous EU politicians, and they will keep on
trying until they have created a vast EU state with rigid control of every
aspect of our lives.

JOHN G. GREER-SPENCER, Dunfermline..

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               35 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                            June 18, 2008 Wednesday

Fruit-and-veg man sets out his stall as a challenger to 'barmy' David Davis

BYLINE:  Andrew Norfolk, Philip Webster

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.17

LENGTH: 730 words


A fruit-and-veg trader is to pack up his market stall for a month after
announcing himself as the latest challenger to David Davis in the by- election
for his constituency seat.

Eamonn Fitzpatrick, who stood in the 2007 Northampton local election and the
2005 general election, said that he felt compelled to contest the Conservative
former frontbencher's seat of Haltemprice & Howden.

Mr Davis, who was the Shadow Home Secretary, resigned from Parliament in protest
at government plans for 42-day detention of terrorism suspects. Mr Fitzpatrick,
known locally as Fitzy, said yesterday that he felt compelled to act because Mr
Davis's behaviour was barmy. "I think people will back what I say," said Mr
Fitzpatrick, who is not affiliated to a political party. "I'm not a politician,
I'm a fruit-and-veg man, but I'll certainly have a go and I'll do whatever it
takes."

In the absence of Labour, Liberal Democrat and UKIP candidates, the eccentric
list of likely challengers to Mr Davis now includes a pub landlord and
smoking-ban rebel, a political author, an artist and the current holder of the
Miss Great Britain title.

Gordon Brown also took on Mr Davis's argument that 42-day detention was a breach
of civil liberties yesterday by suggesting that terrorists using modern
up-to-date technologies could not be fought with a "head-in-the-sand" approach.

Without mentioning Mr Davis, Mr Brown strongly defended the use of CCTV, ID
cards and the DNA database, declaring that they protected liberties rather than
damaged them. Britain must be ready to use 21st- century solutions to deal with
21st- century threats of global terrorism, he argued.

Downing Street insisted that the speech, to the Institute of Public Policy
Research, was not intended as a riposte to Mr Davis, but sources acknowledged
that Mr Brown believed that some of his critics were clinging romantically to an
earlier age when it came to civil liberties.

Mr Brown said that it was time to write a new chapter in Britain's history that
would protect citizens' secur- ity and individual liberties. He said that those
people threatening security were ready to use the most up-to-date technology and
the challenge was to use technology to counter that. "New technology is giving
us modern means by which we can discharge these duties, but just as we need to
employ these modern means to protect people from new threats, we must at the
same time do more to guarantee our liberties," he said.

"Facing these modern challenges, it is our duty to write a new chapter in our
country's story: one in which we both protect and promote our security and our
liberty, two equally proud traditions."

Mr Davis's decision to force a by-election in Haltemprice & Howden is likely to
cost the public at least £ 95,000. The money will ensure the smooth running of
the democratic process in the East Yorkshire seat. Each candidate will be
entitled to spend up to £ 100,000 of his or her own money, including donations,
on expenses during the forthcoming campaign.

In addition, the Government will foot the bill for all the additional costs
associated with the by-election.

Three years ago, the general election contest in Haltemprice & Howden cost East
Riding of Yorkshire Council £ 95,520, which it was able to reclaim in full.

Staffing payments amounted to £ 40,000, while the printing of poll cards and
ballot papers added a further £ 10,000. Transport costs were £ 6,000 and rooms
were rented for £ 16,000. An additional £ 23,000 was spent on stationery,
postage, telephone and bank charges.

All these costs will have to be met during the by-election campaign, plus
whatever it costs the police to keep an eye on the count, which is likely to be
at a Hull leisure centre.

Mr Davis is eager for an opponent of substance, but not even the British
National Party is willing to add its name to the list of fringe parties standing
against him. Simon Darby, the BNP's deputy leader, said yesterday that the
far-right party shared Mr Davis's opposition to the Government's 42 day
detention plan for terrorism suspects.

"We would argue that these people (jihadist extremists) should not be in the
country in the first place, but if the price we have to pay for the
accommodation of millions of immigrants is the scrapping of our ancient rights,
then it is not a price worth paying," he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               36 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 16, 2008 Monday

Liberal with the lucre;
LETTERS

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 56

LENGTH: 192 words


LIBERAL Democrat MEP Andrew Duff claims his party is 'relatively poor' (Mail).
Really? Before the 2005 General Election, his party accepted £2.4 million from
expatriate businessman Michael Brown, through his Londonregistered shell company
5th Avenue Partners. This was, apparently, the largest amount ever received by a
British party from a single donor.

The Liberal Democrats are still enjoying the benefit of that money, and bank
interest earned on the capital, even though the High Court declared 5th Avenue
Partners fraudulent and Mr Brown himself has been convicted and imprisoned for
fraud.

In striking contrast with its attitude in other cases (most notably their
pursuit of UKIP over a technical error, even after it had been accepted as such
by a judge), the Electoral Commission refuses to pursue the matter or demand the
confiscation of this money and accrued interest, while other criminal charges
are still pending against Mr Brown.

So Liberal Democrat MPs can vote on our laws   and vote to deny us a referendum
on the Lisbon Treaty   despite their election having been largely funded by
illegal donations.

R. I. WALLACE, Caergybi, Ynys Mon..

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               37 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 16, 2008 Monday 3:26 PM GMT

The heroes of the Irish 'No' campaign

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 395 words


Full coverage of UK politics                                              In
thanking Declan Ganley and the other Irish heroes, we should touch our caps,
too, to their allies overseas. Two people worked heroically to ensure that the
message got through that a "No" vote would not leave Ireland friendless. Thomas
Rupp, an amiable and sharp-witted German, who runs the European Referendum
Campaign; and Sharon Bonnici, a wonderful Maltese, who works for the
Euro-sceptic bloc in the European Parliament, the Independence and Democracy
Group (Ind/Dem).

Peter Mandelson worked wonders to secure a "No" vote

It was their efforts that prevented the "Yes" campaign from capitalising on what
the early polls showed to be its greatest asset, namely the fear that a "No"
would marginalise Ireland. Not only did they anticipate this line of attack:
they convinced many Irish voters (correctly) that a "No" vote would make them
the most popular nation in Europe. They did this through various means,
including the embassy vigils that I've already mentioned and a letter-writing
campaign, in which ordinary citizens on the Continent wrote to Irish friends and
acquaintances urging a "No". It worked.

Above all, we should salute the Ind/Dem Group, which includes the charming and
tireless Irish MEP, Kathy Sinnott, as well as UKIP, for distributing quotations
from the Lisbon Treaty throughout Ireland. They did so with money set aside by
the European Parliament explicitly for campaigns of this sort. Obviously, when
they drew up the rules, MEPs hadn't envisaged the possibility of Eurosceptics
using their funds. The parliamentary authorities were furious when they saw what
Ind/Dem was doing, but couldn't stop them, as it was so clearly within the
regulations. Just think how nice it'll be when the Conservatives get their own
Group in the European Parliament, and can do similar things.

Oh, and one more thank you. If a single Brit can claim credit for Ireland's "No"
it is Peter Mandelson  or "Lord Snooty" as the Irish press christened him after
he haughtily told Irish farmers that they had got their facts wrong over trade
talks. His image adorned "No" posters from that day onwards. Well done, Mandy,
old thing: I always knew you'd do something worthwhile one day.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               38 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Independent on Sunday

                                 June 15, 2008
                                 First Edition

Twelve good folk and true ... or Brown's dirty dozen?;
POLITICS;
The unionists and maverick MPs who swung the vote on 42-day terror detention
Labour's way

SECTION: NEWS WEEKLY; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 511 words


Peter Robinson Leader of the Democratic Unionist Party, a post attained after
20-odd years in the large shadow of Ian Paisley. He has had moderate and extreme
phases and will not be as pally as Paisley with Martin McGuinness but is all in
favour of power sharing with Sinn Fein.

Rev Ian Paisley Former leader stepped down after 40 years as Belfast's loudest
politician. Often accused of political incitement, last year he became pacific
elder statesman after agreeing deal with republicans. Grass-roots grumbles cost
him his jobs as head of his party and church.

Nigel Dodds Robinson's deputy and local finance minister, he is known as a dour
personality who had his doubts about sharing power. Is known for his ability -
he has a Cambridge law degree - and his wife is also in politics, one of a
number of DUP family dynasties.

Rev William McCrea A minister of religion known for being on the hard right of
Northern Ireland politics. Bursts into song at the end of his speeches as he is
known for singing both hymns and country and western tunes. Had doubts about
power sharing but has gone for it.

Iris Robinson Peter's wife is an MP and chairman of the health committee in
Belfast. Deferential towards her husband, she once described herself as "not the
brightest bulb in the chandelier". Centre of controversy recently after she
suggested gays need psychiatric help.

Sammy Wilson A long-time friend and colleague of Peter Robinson, he once dated
Paisley's daughter Rhonda. A very humorous speaker, he was outed as a nudist
years ago when a tabloid newspaper got hold of some (very innocent) holiday
snaps.

Jeffrey Donaldson One of Ulster's best vote-getters, he was a thorn in the flesh
of former Ulster Unionist leader David Trimble, until he defected to the DUP. An
effective broadcaster, who is sometimes twitted for his resemblance to Irish
singer Daniel O'Donnell.

David Simpson Well-off businessman from the tough town of Portadown, his chief
claim to fame is that he got his seat by defeating former Ulster Unionist leader
David Trimble. Bit of a hardliner, even in DUP terms.

Gregory Campbell Known for appearing in the 'State of the Union' programme which
caused a BBC crisis in the 1980s, when he was pictured loading his legally held
revolver. He has just been appointed a minister in Belfast.

Lady (Sylvia) Hermon Sole Commons representative of the Ulster Unionist Party,
which was all but wiped out by the Paisleyite steamroller. Married to a former
chief constable, she is known as a particularly moderate unionist.

Ann Widdecombe A member of the Conservative Christian Fellowship who converted
to Catholicism after the Church of England allowed women to be ordained. Her
famous jibe of "something of the night" about Michael Howard caused lasting
damage to the former Tory leader.

Bob Spink Former Tory MP who defected to UKIP last year after his local party
threatened to deselect him. He was the Eurosceptic party's first MP.
Anti-abortion, anti-immigration and in favour of capital punishment. His vote in
favour of 42 days was at odds with UKIP leadership.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: SU


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               39 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                             The Observer (England)

                                 June 15, 2008

7 DAYS: A BAD WEEK FOR: Nigel Farage

SECTION: OBSERVER 7DAYS PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 41 words


The Ukip leader and MEP always knew he couldn't trust bloody Europeans: Nigel,
we were sorry to learn last week, was robbed in Ketje's, a lively bar in
Luxembourg Square in Brussels when someone apparently brushed against his chest
during a kerfuffle.


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               40 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 15, 2008

Real people 1, Eurocrats 0 (After extra time)

BYLINE:  Nicola Smith, Brussels; Stephen O'Brien, Dublin; Matthew Campbell,
Paris; Jonathan Oliver

SECTION: FEATURES; News; Pg.12

LENGTH: 3215 words


The voters of Ireland left the EU's constitutional plans in tatters last week by
rejecting the Lisbon treaty. Now the European political elite is desperately
trying to find a way to get round their verdict.

As celebrations go it was not a typically Irish affair. Late on Friday night the
key figures in the Libertas group, which had led the successful campaign in the
republic for a no vote on the European Union's Lisbon constitutional treaty,
gathered in the bar of the Burlington hotel in the centre of Dublin. The
atmosphere was surprisingly sober.

Declan Ganley, the 39-year-old London-born entrepreneur, had just played a key
role in one of the most crushing defeats that the Irish and European political
establishments had ever suffered. His organisation, a think tank containing no
elected politicians, had come from nowhere to achieve a result that has sent
shockwaves throughout the EU.

Irish politicians, pundits and businessmen had been almost as one in urging the
country's people to support the treaty that would drive forward the federalist
aims of the union. Yet, against all predictions, the voters had refused,
returning a no verdict by the margin of 53.4% to 46.6%.

After that, all Ganley wanted was a soft drink and the chance to chat to family
and friends. He is a teetotaller. The man who had left Europe shaken and stirred
was having nothing stronger than a glass of Coca-Cola.

Even if he were a drinker, he might have held off. He knew that the revellers
were celebrating victory in a battle, not a war. He was still in campaign mode
as the crowd in the hotel bar congratulated him.

"This is just the first part," he said. "There is more to come and this is not
over at all. We are going to have to watch what happens now."

Also present was Jens-Peter Bonde, a bespectacled, jovial, grey-haired Danish
MEP who campaigns for more democracy in Europe. He was one of many non-Irish
campaigners who had travelled to Dublin to add their weight to calls for a no
vote in the final week before Thursday's referendum.

"They will come back to Ireland with more protocols and some changes," Bonde
warned Ganley.

"Don't worry," the Galway businessman replied, reassuring him that he was well
aware of the EU hierarchy's power to protect its interests. "You cut off its
head and it just grows more."

Around them, Libertas campaigners relived the highlights of the campaign and
wondered about what they would do if there were a second referendum on the
treaty. "Our posters would simply read, 'No means No'," one said.

It is an argument that is hard to contradict. But while the only people among
the EU's 27-member nations to be given a vote on the Lisbon treaty have rejected
it, the European political elite was this weekend closing ranks and working out
how best to save it. The question is: can it succeed?

A DEATHLY quiet fell over the European commission building in Brussels on Friday
evening as gloomy Eurocrats hid behind their office doors to receive the
stinging verdict delivered on their project by the voters of Ireland.

"The political reality is a nightmare," said one civil servant propping up the
commission's private bar. "Now the blame game starts."

He was not wrong. The initial official reaction to the result was that the
verdict of the Irish people "should be respected". However, it soon became clear
that they were regarded as having made a terrible mistake. European politicians
queued up to lecture them on the folly of their ways.

"It is not truly democratic that less than a million people can decide the fate
of almost half a billion Europeans," said a dejected Daniel Cohn-Bendit, the
German leader of the European Greens.

"We are incredibly disappointed," said Axel Schafer, a member of the German
Bundestag committee on EU affairs. "We think it is a real cheek that the country
that has benefited most from the EU should do this. There is no other Europe
than this treaty."

Giorgio Napolitano, the Italian president, was equally critical, calling for
states obstructing integration to be left out of the EU. "Now is the time for a
courageous choice by those who want coherent progress in building Europe,
leaving out those who, despite solemn signed pledges, threaten to block it," he
said.

There was even a lesson in group loyalty from the Balkans. "Now that they have
used the accession and structural funds, when they developed enormously, I'm a
little surprised that the solidarity is at an end," said Stipe Mesic, the
Croatian president.

EVEN in Brussels, however, some people was celebrating the result. In the shadow
of the commission's Berlaymont headquarters, Eurosceptics from Ireland, the UK
and France gathered in Kitty O'Shea's, an Irish bar, to down pints of Guinness
and toast the victorious end of their campaign.

As the results trickled through on a large screen showing RTE, the Irish
broadcaster, loud cheers could be heard from the jubilant crowd. "The only
people to have a say on the treaty have kicked it into the long grass," said a
gleeful Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence party. "This means that the
British government must halt the ratification of the treaty."

Emmanuel Bordez, a member of the Mouvement pour la France party, said many in
France welcomed the no vote after feeling "cheated and despised" by their
leaders for ignoring their own rejection of the treaty's proposals in a
referendum.

France and Holland had voted down the European constitution in 2005, only for
95% of the document to reappear as the Lisbon treaty, which was signed last
December.

"We have taken the vampire out of its box and killed it three times now. They
have to listen to us," said Bordez.

There were few signs that "they" were listening. Among heads of state, only one
spoke out against the treaty.

On Friday afternoon, Vaclav Klaus, the Czech president, said the Irish vote
should herald the treaty's death blow. "With today's decision by Irish voters,
the Lisbon treaty project is finished and ratification will not continue," he
said.

His government yesterday reiterated its intention to ratify the treaty - it is
one of eight countries other than Ireland not yet to have done so - but his
assessment of the Irish referendum's outcome will not be ignored by those
fighting for the public's right to have their say. It was, he said, "a victory
of freedom and common sense over artificial, elitist projects and European
bureaucracy".

Such sentiments will haunt the meeting of European leaders at a summit in
Brussels which will begin on Thursday. What should have been a pleasant two day
summer summit discussing the roles of the new EU president and foreign minister
has become a fraught meeting that must wrestle with a seemingly insoluble
problem.

The Lisbon treaty requires all 27 countries to sign up to it if it is to become
law. Until then all its provisions are pending. Simply put, Ireland must ratify
it to make it law. And the Irish constitution requires that any such changes
must be put to the people in a referendum. With that not a prospect in the
immediate future, the EU could fall into stasis.

While the EU ground to a halt in 2005 after the French and Dutch no votes,
forcing the bloc into a "period of reflection", the buck has this time been
passed to Ireland to sort out its own "domestic problem".

Yesterday Alain Lamassoure, a French MEP and spokesman on European affairs for
President Nicolas Sarkozy, said it was up to the Irish to find a way out of the
impasse.

"The solution must be proposed by the country that creates the problem," he
said. "It was the French, responsible for the crisis in 2005, who pushed the
treaty of Lisbon. Now the ball is in the Irish court."

ON Friday, Jose Manuel Barroso, president of the European commission, had
expressed the same view. "The responsibility of ratification is a national one,"
he said.

The Irish, however, have indicated that a second referendum is unlikely. The
Nice treaty, which received a no vote in June 2001, was put to the Irish people
again the following year with a positive result. But politicians are wary of the
long-term effects of constantly going back to the electorate and inviting them
to change their minds on European affairs.

"The government have to accept the verdict of the people and operate within the
very considerable constraints it imposes upon us in representing Ireland in
other countries," said Brian Lenihan, the finance minister. "We made our best
effort with this particular treaty. We are in uncharted waters."

Brian Cowen, the Irish prime minister, can expect a tough time when he turns up
in Brussels this week. "I remember going to [EU] council meetings after Nice was
voted down," recalled one Irish cabinet minister. "We were not the most popular
guys in the room, I can tell you that. The change in attitude towards us was
incredible."

This weekend it became clear that the "core" European states of France and
Germany were preparing to push on with integration by hook or by crook.

On Friday, Sarkozy issued a joint statement with Angela Merkel, the German
chancellor. "The Lisbon treaty has been signed by the heads of state and
government of 27 member states and the ratification process has been completed
in 18 countries. We therefore hope that the other member states will pursue the
ratification process," it said.

France will play a key role in the forthcoming negotiations as it will assume
the rotating presidency of the EU at the beginning of next month. Yesterday,
speaking at a joint press conference with President George W Bush, Sarkozy said
the Irish vote "won't make my task as president of the EU any easier" but called
the turn of events "fascinating all the same".

The first EU summit he will host had been timed to coincide with the July 14
French national holiday, but now there will be little to celebrate: almost the
entire agenda of the French presidency had been tied to the idea of a "oui" to
the slimmed-down treaty, allowing Europe to push ahead with ambitious defence
projects and name a foreign minister and president. Sarkozy had also planned to
push French ideas on immigration, energy and farming. All that is in doubt.

Now the drive will probably be towards finding a "legal arrangement" whereby the
countries that have ratified the treaty by the deadline of December 31 can push
on with those efforts, with the Irish left on the sidelines.

"There are always possibilities to find specific methods of co-operating," said
Jean-Pierre Jouyet, the French minister for Europe. The aim would be to allow
Ireland to remain a member of the EU and of the single currency, while being
excluded from the creation of an EU president and foreign minister.

Officials emphasised this weekend that there were no firm plans. "There are
different potential solutions," said a French diplomat. "One could be a special
protocol for Ireland or different forms of opt-outs. We are waiting to hear what
Ireland wants to do."

Some EU officials were pointing towards attaching a protocol to the treaty
allowing Irish "opt-outs" on issues such as abortion, tax and defence as the
simplest way of breaking the impasse. The document would then have to be passed
by an Irish referendum.

"It was the method used when the Danes first rejected the Maastricht treaty,"
said an EU official. "The second time round they voted yes."

Another option would be to postpone ratification of the treaty until the
accession of Croatia to the EU next year. An "accession treaty" would then bring
Ireland back into the fold because its constitution does not require a
referendum on such documents. Certain key elements of the existing treaty would
drop out, however.

IN the meantime, secret discussions are expected to continue, as they have done
already, about the finer details of the current treaty and who can fill the new
roles.

Tony Blair is still considered as a candidate for president. Indeed, some
Brussels wags suggested this weekend that he should be encouraged to use the
diplomatic skills that he is forging as a Middle East peace envoy in resolving
the impasse over the Libson treaty.

Securing alternative legal arrangements will be complicated and a political
minefield but the issue is expected to be discussed at a meeting of EU foreign
ministers tomorrow.

Last Friday, just hours after their initial elation about the no vote, even
jubilant Eurosceptics could see the writing on the wall. "Every time there is a
referendum and the answer is no, they still carry on regardless with the EU
project," said Farage.

In Britain the government was desperately trying to hold to its line that
parliament should press ahead with ratifying the treaty. On BBC Radio 4's Today
programme yesterday, Jim Murphy, the Europe minister, insisted that the Lisbon
agreement was not dead. "Only those who previously wished to dance on the grave
of this treaty, even before the Irish referendum, are declaring it dead," he
said.

The minister echoed the mantra of the Brussels establishment that the problem is
an Irish one, not a European one. "The Irish government needs to come to the
European council meeting next week to tell us, the UK government and other
governments in the EU, how they think we should be taking this forward based on
the sovereign decision of the Irish people," he said.

On the same programme William Hague, the shadow foreign secretary, insisted that
the Irish vote should force Gordon Brown to call a halt to Britain's treaty
bill, which is going through its final stages in parliament.

"The British government says that it will respect the result in Ireland. If it
did so it would immediately halt the ratification process in Britain because
there is no reason for other countries to continue ratifying the treaty other
than a hope of bullying Ireland into voting a second time," he said.

Brown is understood privately to be very concerned about the prospect of Ireland
being pressured into accepting a "two-speed Europe", with it put in the slow
lane. He is said to be prepared to tell EU officials that the whole treaty
should be dropped rather than let the Irish be hung out to dry.

He would find support for that view within his party. Dozens of Labour
ministers, backbenchers and policy advisers gathered yesterday at a London
conference organised by the left-wing Compass group. The prevailing view was
that Brown should call a pause in the process to reflect on the implications of
the Irish vote.

Jon Cruddas, the Labour MP for Dagenham who came third in last year's deputy
leadership contest, said: "We can't just press on relentlessly with the treaty
and disrespect what the people have said."

Even ardent pro-Europeans warned that the government could not continue as if
nothing had changed. Keith Vaz, a former Europe minister, said: "We now have to
think very long and hard about what has happened."

Despite the outrage of anti-Brussels campaigners, it seems almost certain that
the treaty bill will complete its final stage in the Lords this week. The
balance of power in the upper house is held by the Liberal Democrats whose
leader, Nick Clegg, has indicated that he will still order his peers to vote
with the government.

The Tories plan a series of Commons skirmishes, with an opposition day debate on
Wednesday and a likely assault on Brown at prime minister's questions. The
government will hope to limp through the week until the EU leaders gather in
Brussels on Thursday - when ministers will be praying that a way out of the
deadlock can be found.

THE TREATY THAT THE VOTERS REJECTED

The key features of the treaty rejected by Irish voters are:

EU president: a powerful new figurehead would replace the rotating six-month EU
presidency and give the bloc more continuity.

EU foreign minister: a new post combining two jobs, intended to give Europe more
political clout on the world stage.

Voting weights: a phased redistribution of voting weights between the 27 member
states. It introduces qualified majority voting based on a "double majority" of
55% of member states, accounting for 65% of the EU's population.

European commission: a smaller EU executive, with fewer commissioners than there
are member states, from 2014.

New powers: for the European commission, parliament and Court of Justice,
particularly in justice and home affairs.

Removal of national vetoes: on budgetary matters, defence co-operation, sport
and culture.

Nine countries have still to ratify the treaty out of a total of 27: the UK,
Ireland, Czech Republic, Holland, Sweden, Spain, Italy, Belgium and Cyprus.

And how Eurocrats may try to wriggle around the no vote:

Heap pressure on the Irish A concerted effort will be made to encourage the
Irish government to put the treaty to the public again. However, Brian Cowen,
the Irish prime minister, indicated this was unlikely, saying there would be "no
quick fix".

Move the goalposts French and German officials are already talking about coming
to an alternative "legal arrangement", which would allow Ireland to remain in
the EU but outside the new provisions introduced by the Lisbon treaty. This will
be a legal and political minefield, but it could involve a protocol giving the
Irish extra assurances on sensitive issues such as abortion, taxation and
defence.

Delay, then fudge The 27 member states could delay the ratification process
until late 2009 or early 2010, when Croatia joins the EU, and then add aspects
of the Lisbon treaty to the "accession treaty" that will bring the Balkan state
into the union. This would allow the Irish government to bypass another
referendum.

The one they will not consider Of course, the treaty could be scrapped
altogether with the current institutional arrangements allowed to carry on.
Critics point out that the EU has functioned perfectly well since the
constitution drafting process began six years ago.

WHY THE IRISH SAID NO

* The victory for the no campaign was truly one for the Irish people rather than
the political class.

Among the parties, only Sinn Fein, which attracted just 5% of votes at the last
general election, was against ratification of the EU treaty.

* Surveys showed that the urban working class, rural dwellers, the Catholic
right and the hard left formed the unlikely alliance that led to the antis
winning.

* The complexity of the treaty meant that its contents were barely debated. Even
Brian Cowen, the prime minister, admitted that he had not read it the whole way
through.

* Other issues relating to Ireland's EU membership were given more prominence
than the treaty itself. Key among them were fears that the country's
advantageous tax regime would be removed by EU diktat and that its military
neutrality might be affected by the proposed EU defence force. There were also
rumblings about the country's loss of an EU commissioner and the halving of its
voting weight on the EU council.

* The Sunday Times had campaigned for a no vote, publishing the treaty in full.
The newspaper has a readership of more than 360,000 people in Ireland. Yesterday
Le Monde, the French daily, laid some of the "blame" for the result at our door.

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: st


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               41 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                 June 15, 2008

Real people 1, Eurocrats 0 (After extra time)

BYLINE:  John Burns and Nicola Smith

SECTION: FEATURES; Eire News; Pg.14

LENGTH: 1538 words


Irish voters have left Brian Cowen to face a hostile interrogation by his
counterparts in Brussels this week, say John Burns and Nicola Smith.

It should have been the perfect entree. On Thursday, Brian Cowen will meet his
European counterparts for the first time at a meeting of EU heads of state at
the Justus Lipsius building in Brussels. Had he brought Ireland's ratification
of the Treaty of Lisbon with him, it would have been smiles all round. Nicolas
Sarkozy, the French president, would have been beaming.

This week's summit was to have been a pleasant two-day summer get-together, with
talks about who might take the roles of the EU president and foreign minister -
positions created by the Lisbon treaty. There might even have been negotiations
about the creation of an EU diplomatic service.

Now the taoiseach faces a hostile interrogation instead. Where did it all go
wrong? What's he going to do about it? Europhile foreign leaders, fearful that
Ireland's No vote might set off a domino effect, will demand that Cowen provide
not just explanations but a solution too.

The French are particularly horrified by the Irish vote. It has cast a shadow of
uncertainty over their six-month presidency of the EU, which starts on July 1.
Sarkozy had been expected to use his elevated status as president of the council
to announce ambitious EU defence projects, and to arrange for suitable people to
fill the new European roles. All that is now in doubt.

France has stayed fairly quiet about its ambitions for European defence,
although some tantalising details have been disclosed. It was told to delay an
announcement until after the Irish referendum, so as not to frighten off Yes
voters who were squeamish about Irish neutrality. So will they risk announcing
anything now?

No wonder Jean-Pierre Jouyet, the French secretary of state for European
affairs, first said he was shattered by the No vote. On reflection, a few hours
later, he was describing it as nothing more than an incident. "Europe has not
broken down," Jouyet said. "Nor is it in crisis. We are sad. We are above all
sad for our Irish friends. But we must go forward."

The sadness and regret about Ireland's No vote struck a much different note to
the talk of political "catastrophe" and "paralysis" that followed the rejection
of the EU constitution by France and the Netherlands in 2005. Behind the scenes
there was little official sympathy for Ireland - which is widely regarded as
being ungrateful after pocketing so much European aid down the years.

There were suggestions that the Irish rejection of the treaty was less important
than the French one, which was supposedly based on more high-minded reasons such
as the retention of the country's social model. "The Irish No is a liberal,
reactionary and isolationist 'no'," said a writer in the left-wing Liberation
newspaper.

Jouyet said another "legal arrangement" with Ireland would have to be found.
"There are always possibilities to find specific methods of co-operating," he
said.

Many European commentators speculated that France and Germany might have already
plotted a plan C. Jean-Claude Juncker, the prime minister of Luxembourg, told
German radio that the Irish rejection showed it was time to press on with a
"club of the few" countries - those most enthusiastic about closer EU
integration.

The Sueddeutsche Zeitung newspaper in Germany also suggested that the Irish vote
could lead to a "two-speed Europe" with a handful of staunchly Europhile
countries developing common policies of their own. The country's foreign
minister, Frank-Walter Steinmeier, told reporters during a trip to China that
the onus was on Ireland to "clear the way" for the EU's other 26 members to
continue developing joint EU policies.

The British government is putting pressure on Ireland. Jim Murphy, the Europe
minister, said it was up to Cowen to devise a way forward.

One Eurocrat plan seems to be to attempt to isolate Ireland: the other 26 should
get on with their ratification by the end of the year, leaving Ireland on its
own in the No camp. As Murphy said yesterday: "When we get to the end of that
process, probably towards the end of this year, it is important to reflect then
- is it 26 governments who have ratified and is it one that hasn't? And then we
discuss the way forward."

EUROPEAN reaction to Ireland's vote was not entirely curmudgeonly, of course. In
the shadow of the European Commission's towering Berlaymont headquarters on
Friday night, Eurosceptics from Ireland, Britain and France mingled in Kitty
O'Shea's pub triumphantly toasting the victorious end of their campaign.

As the results came through on a large screen showing RTE Television, there were
loud cheers from the jubilant crowd. "The only people to have a say on the
treaty have kicked it into the long grass," said a gleeful Nigel Farage, the
leader of the UK Independence party. "This means that the British government
must halt the ratification of the treaty."

Emmanuel Bordez, a member of the Mouvement Pour la France party, said many of
his countrymen would welcome the No vote because they felt "cheated and
despised" by their leaders who ignored France's rejection of the constitution
and then incorporated 95% of the document into the Lisbon treaty.

"We have taken the vampire out of its box and killed it three times now. They
have to listen to us," he said. His party's president supported this view. "The
Irish people have spoken for the French people," said Philippe de Villiers.
"This vote signals a massive rejection of the anti-national and anti- democratic
drift of the Europe of Brussels.

"Each time that people express themselves directly, their message is clear
because they do not want a system that deprives them of sovereignty."

Taking some of the pressure off Ireland, the To Vima newspaper in Greece argued
that the fate of the treaty depended more on what happened in more Eurosceptic
countries such as Britain and the Czech Republic.

If the Conservatives in Britain had their way, Britain would be saying No too.
The Tories say that three No votes should prompt EU leaders to accept that their
blueprint for reform is dead.

"I think our government should have the courage to say to other European
leaders, 'now we have got to recognise reality'," said William Hague, the shadow
foreign secretary and a former Tory leader. "The people of France and the people
of Holland voted against a very similar document, the EU constitution. Now the
people of Ireland have voted against this. It is time to turn away from this
whole centralising project and concentrate on things that really matter."

Philip Bushill-Matthews, a Conservative MEP, said the treaty was dead. "The
European Commission said in advance that if the Lisbon treaty was rejected by
any country there was no plan B," he said. "There should be a Plan B now: B is
for burial. The treaty is finally dead: we should listen to the people and make
sure it is finally buried."

Even Eurosceptics don't really expect that it will be, though. Every time there
was a referendum and the answer was no, the commission still carried on
regardless with the EU project, said Farage. "They can't be allowed to treat
democracy with such contempt."

Positive reaction to the Irish vote wasn't confined to traditional Eurosceptics.
Die Welt, a centre-right German daily newspaper, said the Irish had rejected EU
reform and that was a good thing. "Why should they not vote against a
constitution, the benefits of which no-one could explain to them properly? If
the political elite of Europe are clever, they will not try to force Ireland to
vote again and again until they are happy with the result."

The far left, which opposes European integration, was delighted with the result.
"Thank you to the Irish people," headlined the French Communist daily
L'Humanite.

Der Standard, in Austria, wrote: "Brussels and the governments of EU countries
must finally understand that the citizens do not want an EU where everything is
decided in Brussels. It will now be decisive, whether Europe will choose the
German-French path of integration or the liberal-economic path of Great
Britain."

Ireland even received positive support for its rejectionist stance. Vaclav
Klaus, the president of the Czech Republic, praised Irish voters for dealing a
death blow to the treaty.

"With today's decision the treaty is finished and ratification will not
continue," he said.

Klaus, who is not the only Czech politician to have misgivings about the
European project, described the outcome as "a victory of freedom and common
sense over artificial, elitist projects and European bureaucracy".

The Czechs have yet to ratify the treaty, which is under review by the country's
constitutional court. Irish government sources suggested the Czech position
might be somewhat self-interested. If the treaty does fall and the position of
permanent president of the European Council is not created, the Czechs will
instead assume a six-month presidency next year.

Cowen might not mind what the ulterior motives of the Czechs are. At least he
will have someone to talk to in Brussels this week.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sb


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               42 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 15, 2008 Sunday
                                Scottish Edition

Davis' vote stunt

SECTION: LETTERS; 78

LENGTH: 200  words


I AGREE with David Davis on the 42-day detention law but, nevertheless, I cannot
help but feel that his stunt reeks of hypocrisy.

After all, most of the "insidious, surreptitious and relentless erosion of
fundamental British freedom" to which he refers has come from the European
Union, which his party has unequivocally supported over many years.

"Assault on jury trials" and diminution of habeas corpus, both enshrined in
Magna Carta, are designed to bring our system of justice into line with the
Napoleonic code practised in most European countries.

It was the Conservative Party that took us into the-then Common Market and which
signed the Treaties of Nice, Amsterdam and the Single European Act, all without
referendums. It is only when in Opposition that they show any element of
Euroscepticism. They have not opposed the Treaty of Lisbon, nor committed
themselves to its repeal, only opportunistically called for a referendum.

Does Mr Davis's stand include opposition to the Treaty of Lisbon?

His stance would only have real credibility if he followed his erstwhile
colleague, Dr Bob Spink MP, in joining the UK Independence Party and stood as
its candidate in the by-election.

Mike Smith, Gloucester

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               43 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 15, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Irish hammer another nail in Gordon's coffin;
FOCUS

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan DEPUTY POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 1120  words


GORDON BROWN risks "electoral suicide" if he refuses to back down and give the
British people a say over Europe. He is under pressure to shelve the Lisbon
Treaty and allow Britain a referendum after Irish voters rejected the blueprint
for an ever-closer European Union.

However, ministers insist Britain will forge ahead with the treaty, which will
clear its final parliamentary hurdle in the Lords on Wednesday.

The Irish rejection makes critical Thursday's European Council where leaders
will try to find a way out of the political quagmire.

Rejection by a single member state should halt the process of reform but
European Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso immediately declared the
treaty "still alive" and business as usual. Eighteen nations have ratified the
treaty, to come into force in 2009, but eight, including Britain, have yet to do
so.

Neil O'Brien, director of campaign group Open Europe, warned Mr Brown would not
be forgiven for forging ahead with the project in defiance of the democratic
will of Ireland and the European Union's own rules.

"If supporters of the EU constitution cannot even win in Ireland, one of the
most pro-EU countries in Europe, it is clear that their vision for the future of
Europe is now discredited in a most fundamental way, " he said. "It would be
tantamount to electoral suicide for Gordon Brown to ignore the Irish result and
try to force through the Lisbon Treaty regardless." Open Europe released a new
ICM poll which found that if a referendum were held in Britain voters would
reject the treaty by 51 per cent to 28 per cent.

British voters, still smarting from Labour's refusal to hold a referendum, will
get a chance to punish Mr Brown next year. The UK Independence Party has warned
it will turn the June 2009 European Parliament elections into a "referendum
issue". Conservative candidates too will remind voters how Labour forged ahead
with ratification in defiance of democracy.

The 19 Labour MEPs could be reduced to nine or 10 as a result.

Irish Premier Brian Cowen also risks a battering if he seeks to overturn
Friday's vote - 53.4 per cent to 46.6 per cent - with a second ballot.

Ireland though could create a "legal arrangement" with the European Union,
allowing the other member states to forge ahead with the treaty. Eurocrats will
insist that the interests of 495million European citizens should not be ignored
because of the views of one million Irish voters.

In 2005, France and the Netherlands both rejected the European constitution.
Instead of killing off the reform project, European politicians presented their
plan B, the Lisbon Treaty, which critics called the constitution by any other
name.

Both plans include proposals for an elected European president, an EU foreign
affairs minister and streamlined voting which would see Britain lose its veto in
55 policy areas.

With no effective plan C, Europe's leaders could, for the third time, ignore a
referendum and their own rule book. This arrogant strategy puts all Europe's
leaders at risk of a political backlash from citizens who feel increasingly
alienated from the European project.

An alternative could be the piecemeal adoption of the treaty but that too runs
the risk of accusations of it being a stealthy creep towards a federal Europe.
The EU could abide by its own rule book, declare the treaty dead and carry on
with the voting system currently in place. After all, say campaigners, this
system has not bought the 27-member state union to its knees so far.

Pressure will, however, be placed on European leaders to plough ahead with
wholesale ratification and reform. Mr Barroso urged politicians not to "rush to
conclusions", only to insist that it was for Ireland to find a way out of its
political dilemma, rather than the rest of Europe. "At the European Council we
will want to confer with each other, to hear Prime Minister Cowen's analysis, as
well as his ideas on how to address the concerns expressed by those who chose to
vote No." French President Nicolas Sarkozy and German Chancellor Angela Merkel
rushed out a statement insisting the treaty's reforms were still needed to make
the EU more effective and British Foreign Secretary David Miliband, who meets
with his counterparts tomorrow, said the EU Bill would continue its passage
through Parliament.

"It is right that we follow the view that each country must see the ratification
process to conclusion, " he said. "It is right that we continue with our process
and take up the Irish offer of further discussions about the next steps
forward." Conservative leader David Cameron warned it would be the "height of
arrogance" for Labour to continue the ratification process, adding: "By all
rights it should be declared dead.

"The French said no to it, the Dutch said no to it, then it was brought back and
the only people who have been given a chance to pass judgment on it, the Irish,
have now said no to it. The elites in Brussels have got to listen to people in
Europe who do not want endless powers being passed from nation states to
Brussels. They do not want endless constitutions and treaties.

"If this is not dead, we must be able to have the referendum in this country so
that we have the chance to pass judgment on this treaty and put the final nail
in its coffin." Nigel Farage, leader of Ukip, said it was clear EU bosses would
not allow their project to be derailed by the democratic voice of Ireland. He
said: "The gulf between the EU and its citizens is now a gaping chasm."
Anti-treaty campaigners say the scale of the Irish vote, on a respectable
turnout of 55 per cent, and reasons for it, cannot be ignored.

FEW COUNTRIES have benefited as much from European Union membership as Ireland.

When it first signed up in 1973 it was the poorest country in Europe. Now,
buoyed by .32billion in Brussels grants it is the second richest per head,
behind only Luxembourg but baffled voters emerged from polling booths
complaining they simply did not understand the "legal jibber-jabber" of the
287-page treaty.

Even the Irish Premier admitted he had not read the weighty document while
Ireland's EU Commissioner Charlie McCreevy said no sane person could read it.

By contrast the "dog whistle" No campaign, orchestrated by charismatic
millionaire Declan Ganley and backed by groups such as Justice, touched raw
nerves among voters.

Mr Ganley's Libertas group warned the treaty would eat into farm subsidies,
force a relaxation of Ireland's abortion laws and even threaten Ireland's
neutrality.

He called the result a victory for "common sense" and said Europe's leaders
could not escape the longterm implications of Ireland's verdict, with the
message from the electorate clear: "We do not trust what the Eurocrats are
selling."

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DELIGHT: Members of the Justice group in Dublin celebrate their winning
campaign against the EU treaty
GLOOM: Gordon Brown must listen to the electorate and hold a referendum on the
treaty

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               44 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday

Blonde and the bruiser to stand

BYLINE: Daniel Martin

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 411 words


THE opponents David Davis will be fighting in the Haltemprice and Howden
by-election include a glamour model and a former tabloid editor.

The Liberal Democrats have decided not to field a candidate and Labour are
almost certain to steer clear of the fray.

So it will leave Mr Davis defending his civil liberties position against
pugnacious former Sun editor Kelvin MacKenzie and a candidate from the Miss
Great Britain Party.

For the Tories, a one-to-one fight with Mr MacKenzie, who says he will stand on
a pro-42 day platform if Labour does not, could prove to be nothing short of a
disaster.

The Tory Party wants to regain the support of the Sun, after three elections in
which it backed Labour. But that will become harder, with a candidate from the
paper engaged in a high-profile fight with a Conservative MP and funded by its
owner Rupert Murdoch.

Mr MacKenzie said yesterday: 'I don't feel it's right that he should be allowed
to have a walkover, a major procession.

'I don't feel my civil liberties as being at risk but I view my life as being at
risk if I am on the Tube or the train and some bad guy wants to blow me up or
blow my family up.' Mr Davis is unlikely to get his longed-for reasoned debate
on civil liberties from the Miss Great Britain party, which was set up earlier
this year to campaign for more beautiful women in Parliament.

Miss Great Britain Gemma Garrett stood for the party in the recent Crewe and
Nantwich by-election, where she came bottom with 113 votes. Its policies include
making British politics 'sexy not sleazy', improving childcare for working
mothers, fair pay for the armed forces and the establishment of a 'truly
British' bank holiday.

It meets next week to select a candidate.

For a time it looked like Mr Davis would be facing the unedifying spectacle of a
fight against the BNP and UKIP. But the BNP, which came fourth at the 2005
election, soon announced it would not be putting up a candidate, saying it
agreed with Mr Davis's stand on 42 days.

And UKIP, which came fifth, may also not stand, and one of its MEPs has promised
to campaign in favour of the Tory.

Yesterday on the streets of Howden, a number of voters attacked Mr Davis's
decision to resign. Cake stall owner Lesley Darlington said: 'This is just an
arrogant move and to be honest puts him in a bad light. This is a stunt that
could backfire on him.' Retired civil servant Wesley Paxton, 70, said: 'It is a
bit of an ego trip actually and a total waste of money.'

LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: (1) David Davis: Making a stand (2) Kelvin MacKenzie: Pro-42 days (3)
Gemma Garrett: Beauty platform

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               45 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday

Sarkozy's plan to beat Irish treaty blow

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield and Tom Peterkin

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 530 words


NICOLAS SARKOZY, the French President, is working with European Union officials
and diplomats to plan a special "legal arrangement'' to bypass Ireland's
rejection of the EU treaty.

Mr Sarkozy takes over the EU's rotating presidency next month and will be tasked
with resurrecting, for a second time, the Lisbon Treaty proposals first
contained in the European constitution that was rejected by French and Dutch
voters three years ago.

Officials have no intention of letting the Irish "no'' vote sink a blueprint to
boost the EU's powers on the international stage and to create a President of
Europe.

Yesterday, Gordon Brown telephoned Paris to promise Mr Sarkozy that Britain will
ignore Ireland to continue parliamentary ratification of the treaty.

In a joint statement with the German Chancellor, Angela Merkel, Mr Sarkozy said
last night: "We take note of the democratic decision of the Irish citizens with
all due respect, even though we regret it.

"We hope that the other member states will continue the process of ratification.
We are convinced that reforms contained in the Lisbon Treaty are necessary.''

Jean-Pierre Jouyet, the French Europe minister, has hinted that Paris already
has a legal "fix'', such as plans disclosed in The Daily Telegraph on Wednesday,
to keep the treaty alive.

"The most important thing is that the ratification process must continue in the
other countries and then we shall see with the Irish what type of legal
arrangement could be found,'' he said.

Eight countries are still engaged in parliamentary ratification of the treaty
but are expected to have finished, without any upsets, by the autumn.

Plans to find a "mechanism'' keeping Ireland within the EU but temporarily
outside the treaty will then be tabled at an October or December meeting of
Europe's leaders. Ireland could remain in the euro and be covered by existing
treaties but would be left out of the creation of an EU president and foreign
minister, which would proceed as planned.

By late 2009 or early 2010, when Croatia joins the EU, an amending "Accession
Treaty'' would be signed by all members, including Dublin. Incorporated into it
would be protocol texts giving paper "opt-outs'' on controversial Irish EU
issues, such as taxation powers or greater military co-operation.

Like the rest of the Europe, Ireland does not hold referendums on EU enlargement
treaties and, with new protocol opt-outs, Dublin may get the treaty past the
Irish parliament without another popular vote.

Mr Brown will join other EU leaders at a summit in Brussels next Thursday to vow
that it is business as usual on pushing through the treaty.

However, he will face strong domestic calls for Parliament's ratification of the
treaty to be halted.

The Tories will revive demands for a British referendum as an ICM poll yesterday
found that Britons would vote against the Lisbon Treaty by 51 per cent to 28 per
cent.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, argued that the EU must
honour the Irish vote, the only referendum on the treaty in the EU's 27 member
states.

"The third reading of the treaty in the House of Lords next week must be halted
because the project now has no legitimacy,'' he said.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               46 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday
                                 First Edition

SO, WILL THE REVOLUTION START HERE?;
Save the Magna Carta!;
Ancient rights are under threat - so says David Davis, who has taken a stand
from his Yorkshire constituency. Paul Vallely tours the front line

BYLINE: Paul Vallely

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1429 words


It is no Runnymede. But Haltemprice and Howden is where the Magna Carta is
destined to be defended some 800 years after it was signed.

Tomorrow is the anniversary of the day, in 1215, when the King of England
appended his royal seal to an agreement with his rebellious barons which has
since been held to be the founding document of English liberty. So much so that,
as Tony Benn reached to communicate the significance of the vote to allow the
imprisonment of terrorist subjects for 42 days without trial, he lighted upon
that great charter as his historical reference. "I never thought I would be in
the House of Commons on the day Magna Carta was repealed," he said.

King John and barons met in that picturesque meadow called Runnymede between
Windsor and Staines on the 15th day of June in the 17th year of his reign.
Haltemprice and Howden 2008 does not have quite the same resonance.

The constituency of David Davis, the former Tory shadow home secretary, who is
going to resign his seat to fight a by-election over the 42-day controversy, is
set in the flat featureless countryside of the East Riding of Yorkshire between
the comfortable middle-class suburbs of western Hull and the dull industrial
canal town of Goole - a town once described by a local councillor as "the
arsehole of the universe". (The description so outraged The Goole Times that it
splashed the quote across the front page, delicately and more concisely
recasting the words as "Goole: anus of the world".)

Such an epithet, however, would ill-befit the charming little market town of
Howden (population 3,810) at the heart of Mr Davis's political homeland. Its
architecture is Georgian, though the winding narrow streets betray the medieval
origin of the town. The minster church was begun in 1228, two decades after the
same King John granted the town the right to hold an annual fair.

A fair, by the market cross in the centre of the town yesterday, was an
altogether more modest affair. A trestle table selling plants stood by a stall
covered with homemade cakes and scones and local free-range eggs, hen and goose.
Inside the Shire Hall were stalls selling jewellery and hardware. Lorna Storey,
who was running the jewellery stall, offered her support to Mr Davis. "I'm in
favour of 42 days, but he gives support to things locally, so I'll support him,"
she said.

Across the road, two old ladies were discussing the news that had set the town
abuzz. One in her eighties was leaning on a bicycle. "I'll vote for him," said
the contender for the title of Howden's oldest cyclist.

"I won't," said the second.

"Who else is there to vote for?" asked a third, a mere youngster in her
seventies, joining them.

The Liberal Democrats, who came second at the last election, had announced they
would not field a candidate since they agree with Mr Davis on the 42 days. And
there was talk of Labour boycotting what Gordon Brown described yesterday as Mr
Davis's "stunt that has become a farce".

The only potential opponent so far was Kelvin MacKenzie, the former editor of
The Sun, who that morning had indicated he might stand. "Really," said the third
lady. "I'm a Sun reader, though we get the Yorkshire Post too. But I think I'll
stick with David Davis. I don't agree with him on 42 days but he's done such a
lot for the area even though it's a totally unnecessary election."

"Yes," said one of the others. "I just can't get my head round what he's up to."

On that, she was united with almost every other resident of the town. Whatever
their politics they had that in common. "My politics are Labour," said the lady
selling the bizzy lizzies. "I just don't understand why he's done it at all
because, at the end of the day, the majority of people feel that 42 days is
right. We've all got human rights, including the right not to be blown up."

The elderly man sitting on a foldaway picnic chair with a collecting tin for the
Salvation Army was mystified too. "I'm amazed he's done it as the opinion polls
show he's on to a loser," he said. "There are far more serious issues he could
have resigned over. I'm inclined to spoil my ballot paper."

The lady selling the homemade Bakewell tart and apricot crumble cake was a
Liberal Democrat. "Labour have ridden roughshod over liberties. And though his
gesture is a bit futile - as a bloke he's vain and a bit up himself - I'll have
to vote for him because I don't believe in not voting."

Only a portly Tory supporter at the hardware stall coincided closely with David
Davis's line. "To me, 42 days is totally wrong," he boomed. "They're doing away
with our freedoms. It's a sledgehammer to crack a nut. Anyway, he added,
somewhat spoiling his Shami Chakrabati impression, "they can always find
something to arrest these terrorist suspect for, even if it is inducing them to
assault a police officer".

What was clear was that it was hard for many people to see the coming
by-election as the single issue referendum which Mr Davis has proclaimed it to
be. But then Magna Carta itself wasn't quite as straightforward as it is usually
portrayed. The document which is popularly presented as the cornerstone of the
nation's liberty was less of an iconic declaration of political principle than a
pragmatic solution to a political crisis.

Feudal monarchs were entitled to ask the barons for men and money for their wars
but King John had asked for too much. The barons rebelled. But for all its fine
words - "no free man shall be seized or imprisoned, or stripped of his rights or
possessions, or outlawed or exiled, nor will we proceed with force against him,
except by the lawful judgement of his equals or by the law of the land" - Magna
Carta is essentially a peace treaty by which the king promised to remit unjust
fines, restore seized lands, promised not to force towns to make bridges over
rivers, and much else.

None of that stopped Magna Carta entering the political imagination. The
Levellers, the Chartists and many others embraced what they thought it said for
their own ends, as Tony Benn has admitted in his less purple moments: "Magna
Carta is sometimes spoken of as the birthplace of democracy. It's actually
rubbish. Magna Carta was a struggle between the king and the landowners, it had
nothing to do with the people, the people were entirely excluded."

Still a king had acknowledged, for the first time, that the monarch was subject
to the law. And philosophers might argue that liberty is indivisible. Godfrey
Bloom certainly does. At a previous election he stood against David Davis for
the United Kingdom Independence Party. He is now the MEP for the area. He lives
in the village of Wressle, near a ruined castle built by a baronial family in
the century after Magna Carta.

He, too, lives in a different era, referring to himself as Godders, speaking of
sharing "the occasional sherbert" with Mr Davis, whom he describes as "not
unsimpatico".

"I welcome David's conversion to the issue of the erosion of liberties," he
said. "Now he needs to acknowledge that the greatest source of that erosion is
our surrender of rights to the EU ..." and he was off on a breath-defying
diatribe against the evils of Europe. "If he extends his understanding of the
threat to civil liberties, I'll be out there delivering leaflets for him. If he
remains selective, I may have to stand against him."

Even Godders, however, accepts that Mr Davis will win - "probably on a low
turnout but with a monster majority". But, like the folk in the market square,
he suspects that the MP's career is over. "The whole by-election could become a
silly-season jape. That's the risk he's taken and it may come back to bite him
on the bum."

"He won't get back in the shadow Cabinet," said a Mr Davis supporter at the
hardware stall. "He's thrown his career away."

"It's a pointless gesture," said the cake lady.

"He's probably finished in politics now," said the Sally Army man.

Shakespeare, who saw Magna Carta not as a triumph for liberty but rather as a
shameful attempt to weaken the monarchy, offered a phrase for it in his play
King John: "So foul a sky shall not clear without a storm".

The storm is beginning to break over David Davis's head, so I went to his
aged-brick converted farmhouse home in the constituency to ask him how he was
coping with what was being said by the locals.

"You're on my property, you're invading my privacy," he snapped irascibly when
he came to the door. "Make an appointment before you come here." Quite what else
an experienced politician expected after such a dramatic gesture was unclear.
But then nobody said it would be easy being a guardian of liberty.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               47 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday

Bemused voters stand by their man

BYLINE:  Andrew Norfolk

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.41

LENGTH: 1035 words


Andrew Norfolk meets the people with the final word on the former Shadow Home
Secretary's decision to call a by-election in his constituency

As by-elections go, this one is shaping up to be the wackiest race in memory.

Holding the starting gun is our odds-on favourite, not Dick Dastardly but David
Davis, unbeaten on his home patch for more than 20 years and looking like a
shoo-in.

Our DD is eager for challengers but struggling to find any. No Liberal Democrat
contestant, almost certainly a no-show from Labour. Even UKIP and the BNP have
balked at the course and distance.

Step forward tentatively the former editor of The Sun, Kelvin MacKenzie, no
doubt to be joined by assorted eccentrics. For Penelope Pitstop and the Anthill
Mob read The Miss Great Britain Party and the Monster Raving Loonies - the only
two other confirmed runners so far.

It was small wonder that the voters of Haltemprice & Howden looked a shade
confused yesterday.

Mr Davis, 59, has been the Conservative MP for the East Yorkshire market town of
Howden since 1987. For the first ten of these years his was a largely rural
constituency in the Vale of York, but in 1997 boundary changes created the new
seat.

Howden, a few miles north of Goole, stayed in his patch but the seat now extends
eastwards along the M62 corridor, north of the Humber, to reach into the western
outskirts of Hull.

The constituency is still dominated by huge tracts of farmland, but 70 per cent
of its electorate lives in the big city's middle-class suburbs and a scattering
of affluent dormitory villages near by.

One of these is Cottingham, where lifelong Conservative voters were a large
majority among those attending to their shopping yesterday morning.

With only one exception, those voters who spoke to The Times yesterday were
positive in their assessment of Mr Davis. Many had met him, liked him and
thought he did a fine job for his constituency.

There was, however, a catch. Several said that they would definitely vote for
him in the by-election even though they totally disagreed with his stance
against extended detention for terrorism suspects.

Which would surely defeat the purpose of the exercise.

Bill Thorpe, 73, a retired Crown prosecutor, said that he supported the
Government's 42-day plans but would vote for Mr Davis because he was impressed
that "someone is actually prepared to put his money where his mouth is".

Usually a UK Independence Party voter, Ian Chapman, 57, said he loathed
liberalism "with every ounce of my venom". "I've got nine grandchildren and I'm
worried about about their future," he said. "Longer periods of detention are a
price worth paying for their safety. I see it as a necessary evil."

So Mr Chapman would be voting for Mr MacKenzie, then? Not so.

While he admires Mr Davis as "a man of principle and probity", he "wouldn't let
Kelvin MacKenzie clean my shoes".

Paul Sutton, a small businessman, was "completely in support of 42 days" and
would like the death penalty for terrorism, but intended to cast his vote on the
single issue that mattered most to him: getting rid of Labour.

Back in the courtyard of his converted farmhouse, a few miles from Howden, Mr
Davis talked a good fight as he brushed off all talk of Tory in-fighting,
ambition-fuelled ego trips and vain political stunts.

When asked what message he had for those of his loyal supporters who intended to
vote for him despite opposing the sole issue on which he is standing, he said:
"I will say to them: if you disagree with me, vote against me. That's the
message I'll give them. If I'm wrong, then I'll live by the consequences."

He went on to explain his vision for "a series of big debates" about the erosion
of civil liberties, admitting that he was hoping for a Labour opponent but
pledging to "get some serious people to argue the other side" if no heavyweight
challenger steps forward.

Mr Davis spoke of "astounding levels of support" pouring in from across Britain,
with pledges of donations ranging from £ 25,000 to the widow who phoned to offer
£ 5 once her pension had come in.

Would he not admit to the slightest moment of reflection since Thursday to
consider the possibility that he might end up looking like an heroic failure, or
even worse, a prize chump?

"I knew this was a risk. The consequence is very likely to be deleterious. But
sometimes some of the principled issues matter too much," he said.

"I feel very uncomfortable sounding so bloody self-righteous, but if you talk to
people who have known me for a long time you'll find this is a long standing
concern of mine.

"People think of me as a right-wing Tory, but I was a member of Amnesty
International in my twenties."

Mr Davis would have taken heart had he heard the words of Dorothy Smith, 79, a
retired clerical worker and one of his constituents.

"I think he's being very brave. I thought I supported the 42-day thing, but
since yesterday I've realised that I'd never thought about it too deeply," she
said.

"I thought it was all about keeping us safe from terrorists. I wasn't thinking
about the possibility of locking up innocent people.

"I'd become disillusioned with politics, with all those expenses scandals, and
I'd decided I wasn't going to vote any more. But David Davis is a good man. He's
got principles, he's making a stand and he'll have me on his side."

HALTEMPRICE AND HOWDEN

Geography. A mixture of rural and suburban areas along the M62 corridor, north
of the Humber

Biggest employers. BAE Systems, in Brough; The Press Association, in Howden

Famous former residents Neville Shute, Winifred Holtby,

Sir Brian Rix

Buried there. Philip Larkin

Irrelevant fact. In the television comedy The New Statesman, Rik Mayall's
corrupt Tory MP, Alan B'stard, below, represented a fictional constituency that
was called Haltemprice

2005 General Election result. David Davis, Conservative 22,792 (47.5 per cent)
Jon Neal,

Liberal Democrat 17,676

(36.8) Edward Hart, Labour 6,104 (12.7) Jonathan Mainprize, British National
Party 798 (1.7) Philip Lane, UK Independence Party 659 (1.4) Conservative
majority: 5,116. Turnout: 70.2 per cent

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               48 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 14, 2008 Saturday

'No' verdict ruins Brown's goodweek and gives EU allies amighty headache

BYLINE:  David Charter, Brussels

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.6

LENGTH: 1289 words


Britain to complete ratification next week

Irish voters have given Gordon Brown another thumping political headache just as
his victory on the anti-terrorism vote and the shock resignation of David Davis
had eased his woes.

After picking up the baton from Tony Blair and pushing the Lisbon treaty through
Parliament - against the wishes of the Conservatives and many of his own MPs - a
"yes" vote yesterday would have closed an uncomfortable chapter for the Prime
Minister. For years he has been urging the EU to concentrate on issues that
affect people's lives and he had been hoping that next week's summit in Brussels
would focus on food and fuel prices.

Now he finds himself embroiled in yet another introverted debate about the EU's
institutional structure, the very subject that he believes turns voters against
the EU.

David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, swiftly announced yesterday that Britain
would complete its process of ratification next week. The Bill is almost through
both Houses; after a third reading debate in the Lords on Wednesday, Royal
Assent will follow and it will be on the statute book.

But for what purpose have so many parliamentary hours been exhausted? Without an
Irish "yes" the treaty cannot be implemented. The French and Germans were quick
yesterday to urge every other country to complete its ratification. They seem to
be plotting already to use this pressure to carry on without the Irish; the
French Europe Minister talked of seeking a new "legal arrangement" for Ireland.

When the dust has settled across Europe on the treaty's only referendum verdict,
Paris and Berlin may well find that there is no appetite for another
old-fashioned stitch-up in the corridors of Brussels and that it must be
abandoned.

David Cameron, the Tory leader, said that after the rejection of the EU
constitution by French and Dutch voters in 2005, it was time to accept that the
reform plan was over.

He said that it would be the "height of arrogance" for Gordon Brown to continue
the ratification process in Britain. "By all rights now it should be declared
dead. The French said 'no' to it, the Dutch said 'no' to it, then it was brought
back and the only people who have been given a chance to pass judgment on it,
the Irish, have now said 'no' to it," he said.

When Mr Brown speaks to the long-planned European summit on Thursday, he will
urge the EU not to become mired in a debate about how to react to the Irish
result. They have to discuss what happened but he will tell fellow leaders that
the public expects them to get on to more important matters, and quickly.

Officials say that the emerging consensus between leaders - Mr Brown spoke
yesterday to President Sarkozy, Angela Merkel, the German Chancellor, and Brian
Cowen, the Irish leader - is that at this stage Ireland's Government must decide
what to do.

Like a naughty schoolboy, Mr Cowen will be expected to present his homework when
he attends his first EU summit. Fellow leaders will be looking for clear
guidance on the possibility of a second referendum in the light of previous
remarks that the treaty would not be put to voters again. Although the meeting
will be run by Slovenia, everyone will be looking to Mr Sarkozy for a lead.

France holds the next six-month EU presidency from July and will be expected to
pick up the pieces. Mr Sarkozy finds himself in a similar position to Mr Blair,
who held the presidency in 2005 when the French and Dutch voters sank the
constitution. Mr Sarkozy had plans for a dynamic, ground-breaking presidency. He
is expected to declare that his own agenda for the presidency must continue,
which means pressing ahead with plans to reduce CO2 emissions and with
initiatives on building up European defence systems and a fresh approach to
immigration.

He had wanted to oversee the choice of the new semi-permanent EU president and
foreign minister, posts due to start on January 1 next year. These are now on
ice.

The EU could decide to push ahead with building up its external action service -
the support system of diplomats and embassies for the foreign minister, which
will be like a foreign office for Europe. To do so would require a unanimous
vote of leaders, which could easily be seen as wantonly disregarding the views
of Irish voters and jeopardising chances of a "yes" in a second referendum.

Paris expects some time to elapse before a decision on how to proceed with
Ireland. Pressure on the Irish to put the treaty - in whatever form - to another
vote would be strong if all other states completed ratification, French
diplomats said. Others argued that a more fundamental rethink was needed after
the fiasco of two failed treaties in three years.

Jean-Francois Coppe, parliamentary leader of Mr Sarkozy's Union for a Popular
Movement, said: "There is a gigantic problem between Europe and Europe's
citizens. The citizens have to be reconciled with Europe."

The essential bureaucratic changes required because of the EU's rapid
enlargement from 15 to 27 members since 2004 - such as new voting weights and
fewer commissioners - could be incorporated into the next accession treaty when
Croatia joins in 2010 or 2011.

Some believe that this treaty could be loaded with the remnants of Lisbon, such
as the EU president and foreign minister, waiting until then for a second Irish
referendum.

For Mr Cameron, yesterday's result is a big short-term relief. He has been under
pressure from the Eurosceptics in his party to pledge that a Tory government
would hold a referendum on the treaty even if it had been implemented. He could
not have done so without calling into question Britain's membership of the EU.
That debate will go quiet for a time.

There is a downside. Mr Cameron wanted the debate about Europe's future to go
away just as much as Mr Brown did. Now the chances of it being sorted out by the
time of the next general election campaign - when the last thing he will want is
to focus on an issue that still divides his party - cannot be high.

GLEEFUL AND GLUM

Winners

Declan Ganley, below,

The millionaire businessman behind the Irish "no" campaign

Nigel Farage

Leader of UKIP, who wanted a British referendum and an Irish "no", and every
other Eurosceptic

Benita Ferrero-Waldner

The EU External Relations Commissioner, who gets to keep her job

Sweden, Czech Republic

...and other smaller countries that will be able to chair the EU without losing
out to the EU president

Losers

Brian Cowen

It's a disaster for the Taoiseach in his first month in office

Gordon Brown

He wanted the treaty done and dusted, and now faces more pressure to call a
referendum or to scrap British ratification

David Cameron

A potential long-term headache over Europe

Nicholas Sarkozy

He has to pick up pieces

Angela Merkel

She drove through the treaty

* Such a comprehensive defeat...is an indictment of the distance between the
people and the politics at the top.

www.sluggerotoole.com

Why has one of the most fervently pro-EU nations recanted on its Europhilia? My
feeling is that voters have voted not on the relatively narrow topic of changes
proposed by the treaty, but on the broader one of the EU itself.

www.skipper59.blogspot.com

Just as two years ago in France and the Netherlands...when the people are given
a chance to vote on a further step towards an integrated European state, they
tend to say no.

www.chicagoboyz.net

Many Irish could not comprehend the wording of the treaty, and wisely figured
that a legal agreement should not be signed unless it is understood.

www.htrf-europe.blogspot.com

The EU doesn't need Ireland. Can they be thrown out?

www.hotair.com

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               49 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Top Tory quits over 42 Days

BYLINE: James Chapman

SECTION: SC1; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 950 words


DAVID DAVIS left the Tory Party in turmoil yesterday after he took the
unprecedented step of quitting as an MP to fight a byelection on Labour's
erosion of civil liberties.

The shadow home secretary announced his resignation in protest at a change in
the law that allows police to hold terror suspects for up to 42 days without
charge.

The 59-year-old, a party heavyweight, said it was a 'noble endeavour' to stop
the 'slow strangulation of fundamental British freedoms'.

But the extraordinary gamble with his career and the wider fortunes of the
Conservative Party astonished and infuriated his colleagues. There is also the
risk his decision could backfire if the Labour Party refuses to field a
candidate. The Liberal Democrats have already said they will not fight the
by-election, which could leave Mr Davis in the embarrassing position of debating
only with candidates from fringe parties such as UKIP and publicity-seeking
independents.

There was also dismay in the shadow Cabinet that Mr Davis's oneman mission would
distract attention from Gordon Brown's woes - particularly at a time when the
Tories have established a huge lead in the polls. One colleague described Mr
Davis's decision as 'totally bonkers' and an 'ego-trip'. Another said it was
either a 'masterstroke' or a 'disaster'. Mr Davis, MP for Haltemprice and
Howden, gave David Cameron only a few hours' notice of his plan and did not
discuss it with shadow ministers. He has insisted that the move was not meant as
any sort of leadership

Cameron fears former rival's protest against 42 days could backfire the vote.'
challenge. 'If you think I am picking a fight, I'm picking a fight with the
Labour Party,' he said. Mr Davis had led the Tories' opposition to Government
legislation allowing terror suspects to be held without charge for up to 42
days. Having assured colleagues he would engineer a Labour defeat in the
Commons, he decided to resign after a desperate day of Government horsetrading
ensured a narrow victory on Wednesday night. Mr Davis told the Daily Mail he had
been disgusted that 'bribery and bullying' had seen the 'monstrosity' of 42-day
detention passed.

'This cannot go on,' he said. 'At least my electorate and the nation as a whole
will have had the opportunity to debate and consider one of the most fundamental
issues of our day - the ever-intrusive power of the State into our lives, the
loss of privacy, the loss of freedom and the steady attrition undermining the
rule of law.

The simple truth is that it matters more to me than the job does.' He
acknowledged he was taking a huge risk and said Mr Cameron had warned him what
he was doing 'was not in my own interest'. 'It's my call,' Mr Davis told the
Daily Mail. 'I was hoping that we would win last night but when I saw the nature
of the victory, the shenanigans that went on, the iron entered my soul. We won
the argument but they bought

Mr Cameron, who beat Mr Davis in the Tory leadership race in 2005, praised his
courage but made it clear he could not expect to return to his job. 'We cannot
put home affairs on THE NEW FACE FOUR years ago Dominic Grieve made a citizen's
arrest on a vandal destroying a bus stop. The 52-year-old Beaconsfield MP has
been praised for his parliamentary performances. But some fear he appears too
cerebral when on TV. pause and it is my job to ensure that we have a team that's
ready for government,' he said.

He added that he would help campaign for Mr Davis in the by-election but it was
announced yesterday that Conservative HQ will not bankroll it. Both the Cameron
and Davis camps rejected claims of an 'angry row' between the two and insisted
the Tory leadership had not been split on 42 days. Dominic Grieve, the Tory MP
appointed by Mr Cameron to replace Mr Davis, repeated his predecessor's pledge
to repeal the law if the Tories win power. Labour appeared happy at what the
party sees as an own goal for the

Tories. Justice Secretary Jack Straw said: 'This seems to me a rather odd idea.
'It has been described by Mr Cameron as "personal". He's treated it as a piece
of stinking fish - evidently not something he would have wanted.' But SNP
Westminster leader Angus Robertson said: 'Nobody should be in any doubt that
David Davis is a principled politician when it comes to civil liberties and law
and order, and this is certainly a surprising upshot from last night's vote. 'It
would be impossible for Labour not to contest this byelection, considering their
insistence that public support is with them over extending detention. 'Gordon
Brown will have to put up or shut up.' Comment - Page 14

Yesterday this House decided to allow the state to lock up potentially innocent
people for six weeks without charge. But in truth 42 days is just one example of
the insidious, surreptitious and relentless erosion of fundamental British
freedoms under this Government. We will have the most intrusive identity card
system in the world. A CCTV camera for every 14 citizens. And a DNA database
bigger than that of any dictatorship.

This cannot go on. It must be stopped. I feel that it is incumbent upon me to
take a stand. I will be resigning my membership of this House, and I intend to
force a by-election in Haltemprice and Howden. If they do send me back here it
will be with a single, simple message. That the monstrosity of a law that we
passed yesterday should not stand. That the British people have grown tired of
the inflated, arbitrary and arrogant power accumulated by this Government. And
that the slow but ceaseless encroachment of the state into their daily lives
must come to an end. DAVID DAVIS' STATEMENT ' ' On his way out of Westminster:

David Davis makes his resignation speech outside the Commons

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               50 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Tories in turmoil as Davis resigns;
Cameron fears former rival's protest against 42 days could backfire

BYLINE: James Chapman

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 848 words


DAVID Davis left the Tory party in turmoil yesterday after he took the
unprecedented step of quitting as an MP to fight a by-election on Labour's
erosion of civil liberties.

The shadow home secretary announced his resignation in protest at a change in
the law which allows police to hold terror suspect for up to 42 days without
charge.

The 59-year-old, a party heavyweight, said it was a 'noble endeavour' to stop
the 'slow strangulation of fundamental British freedoms'.

But the extraordinary gamble with his career and the wider fortunes of the
Conservative party astonished and infuriated his colleagues.

There is also the risk his decision could backfire if the Labour party refuses
to field a candidate.

The Liberal Democrats have already said they will not fight the byelection,
which could leave Mr Davis in the embarrassing position of debating only with
candidates from fringe parties such as UKIP and publicity-seeking independents.
There loss of freedom and the steady attrition undermining the rule of law. The
simple truth is that it matters more to me than the job does.' He acknowledged
he was taking a huge risk and said Mr Cameron had warned him what

was also dismay in the shadow Cabinet that Mr Davis's one-man mission would
distract attention from Gordon Brown's woes - particularly at a time when the
Tories have established a huge lead in the polls.

One colleague described Mr Davis's decision as 'totally bonkers' and an
'ego-trip'. Another said it was either a 'masterstroke' or a 'disaster'.

Mr Davis, MP for Haltemprice and Howden, gave David Cameron only a few hours'
notice of his plan and did not discuss it with shadow ministers.

He has insisted that the move was not meant as any sort of leadership challenge.
'If you think I am picking a fight, I'm picking a fight with the Labour party,'
he said.

Mr Davis had led the Tories' opposition to Government legislation allowing
terror suspects to be held without charge for up to 42 days.

Having assured colleagues he would engineer a Labour defeat in the Commons, he
decided to resign after a desperate day of Government horsetrading ensured a
narrow victory on Wednesday night.

Mr Davis told the Daily Mail he had been disgusted that 'bribery and bullying'
had seen the 'monstrosity' of 42-day detention passed.

'This cannot go on,' he said. 'At least my electorate and the nation as a whole
will have had the opportunity to debate and consider one of the most fundamental
issues of our day - the ever-intrusive power of the State into our lives, the
loss of privacy, the he was doing 'was not in my own interest'.

'It's my call,' Mr Davis told the Daily Mail. 'I was hoping that we would win
last night but when I saw the nature of the victory, the shenanigans that went
on, the iron entered my soul.

'We won the argument, but they bought the vote.' Mr Cameron, who beat Mr Davis
in the Tory leadership race in 2005, praised his courage but made it clear he
could not expect to return to his job.

'We cannot put home affairs on pause and it is my job to ensure that we have a
team that's ready for government,' he said.

He added that he would help campaign for Mr Davis in the byelection, but it was
announced yesterday that Conservative HQ will not bankroll it.

Both the Cameron and Davis camps rejected claims of an 'angry row' between the
two and insisted the Tory leadership had not been split on 42 days.

Dominic Grieve, the Tory MP appointed by Mr Cameron to replace Mr Davis,
repeated his predecessor's pledge to repeal the law if the Tories win power.

Labour appeared happy at what the party sees as an own goal for the Tories.
Justice Secretary Jack Straw said: 'This seems to me a rather odd idea.

'It has been described by Mr Cameron as "personal". He's treated it as a piece
of stinking fish - evidently not something he would have wanted.'

Comment - Page 14

THE NEW FACE FOUR years ago Dominic Grieve made a citizen's arrest on a vandal
destroying a bus stop. The 52-year-old Beaconsfield MP has been praised for his
parliamentary performances. But some fear he appears too cerebral when on TV..

DAVID DAVIS' STATEMENT Yesterday this House decided to allow the state to lock
up potentially innocent people for six weeks without charge. But in truth 42
days is just one example of the insidious, surreptitious and relentless erosion
of fundamental British freedoms under this Government. We will have the most
intrusive identity card system in the world. A CCTV camera for every 14
citizens. And a DNA database bigger than that of any dictatorship. This cannot
go on. It must be stopped. I feel that it is incumbent upon me to take a stand.
I will be resigning my membership of this House, and I intend to force a
by-election in Haltemprice and Howden. If they do send me back here it will be
with a single, simple message. That the monstrosity of a law that we passed
yesterday should not stand. That the British people have grown tired of the
inflated, arbitrary and arrogant power accumulated by this Government. And that
the slow but ceaseless encroachment of the state into their daily lives must
come to an end. '

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: On his wat out of Westminster: David Davis makes his resignation speech
outside the commons

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               51 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 670 words


It will be a campaign of the highest principles, encompassing debate about
detention without trial, ID cards and the loss of civil liberties. But if David
Davis's strategically created byelection in Haltemprice and Howden appears to be
running out of momentum, look for the buxom ladies with T-shirts that say "It's
DD for me" - the team deployed during his failed leadership campaign. Democracy
will be the winner. We'll all be proud.

All because Gordon got his way on the 42-day thing. Well, kind of. Now he must
find some way to reward his motley band of saviours, the DUP, Ann Widdecombe,
and the Ukip MP Bob Spink. The PM has already shown his appreciation to aides
who fought valiantly on his behalf by giving them access to the cabinet room,
the better to celebrate their triumph with quantities of scotch. Tom Watson, the
Cabinet Office minister, became so emotional about the day's events that he went
home and slept in his clothes. There are, apparently, photographs of the
jollity. Look great on Facebook.

Did the loyal troops bump into Bob Spink in the voting lobbies. Can't miss him:
grey, balding, Ukip's sole MP. Two months ago, at around the same time as Bob
left the Tories, Ukip released a policy document, Rebalancing Justice. "We
regard detention without trial as an improper state of affairs," it said. But
yesterday, the talisman went his own sweet way. That's politics. That's Ukip.

It was the week of weeks for Gordon, with threats to make, bribes to offer,
tummies to stroke. Nothing would have been achieved by standing still. And on
Monday, the distraction of a dinner in the garden at No 10 to mark the PM's 25
years in parliament. All sorts of old hardcore friends turned up, from Scotland
and London, the obscure, the famous and the infamous. Tony Blair was not there,
though several Blairites did make their way to the event. Call Lord Hutton;
review security.

Hardly any risks are acceptable these days. We shield ourselves from peril.
That's just sensible. But whatever happened to buyer beware? At the Trolley
Gallery in the East End of London, artists have come together for the show Don't
stop me now - the body beyond death, among them the renowned collective Le Gun.
Their installation Died Happy consists of a boxed clay figure in a hole in the
floor, and there is no doubt that he indeed died happy. A protrusion rising to
floor level is testament to that. All was well until one woman stood on this
proof of his happiness. It snapped and she was banned, but she exacted her
revenge. "We got a visit from Tower Hamlets health and safety," explains
director Gigi Giannuzzi. "Apparently someone had reported our exhibit as a
danger to society! No prizes for guessing who." The sculpture endures but it is
surrounded by a fence and hazard tape. Itself a comment on modern life, you
might think.

Perhaps we could all be a bit more robust about these things; like Clarkson and
Littlejohn and Tommy Taylor, the Lib Dem leader of Wear Valley district council
and also the authority's equalities and diversity champion, who looked at a
photograph of three female officers and declared them "three nice bits of
stuff". Inevitably his Labour critics seek to traduce him. Already they want an
apology. Instead, we shall hear his defence. "I take nothing back. They are
three cracking-looking girls," he told the Northern Echo. "I said the district
was lucky to have three bits of stuff going to a presentation to represent us. I
think this is churlish of the Labour group. They will do anything to have a go."
Clearly.

Thanks to those who have so supported the Diary's attempt to compete with the
big boys in securing photographs of the Wayne Rooney wedding and the related
parties. He and Colleen formally tied the knot at a civil ceremony yesterday.
Reports say OK! magazine paid £2.5m for first rights. We haven't got that, but
we hope to be next. If we submit £1m in a padded brown envelope, we're told, our
chances are fair to middling. So far we have the envelope. Tiny steps.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               52 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Comment & Debate: That hum? It's the sound of Labour's zombie-like MPs marching
to disaster: The docile acceptance of 42 days suggests a choice to walk the
plank rather than mutiny. Profound electoral wipe-out awaits

BYLINE: Polly Toynbee

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 1222 words


It's not just Gordon Brown who looks like a dead man walking, Labour now looks
like a party of zombies. Polling lower than ever recorded, with its leader sunk
below any previous floor, no party has ever come back from here before. Bad news
is only replaced by worse every week that passes. It's hard to know if the
living dead walking towards their doom are in denial or have already decided
nothing can save them.

A few Cassandras try to wake the rest from their torpor. But they go unheard:
those voices usually come from outriders of the two edges of the growing divide
between the tax-cutting, devolving marketisers (Hutton, Purnell, MacShane) and
the back-to-core-values-heartlanders (McDonnell and the usuals).

The sleepwalkers can be heard murmuring reassurances to each other as they go
by. Their low hum sounds like this: steady as she goes, don't rock the boat,
don't drop the pilot, carry on governing to July - the summer break always sees
governments rise in the polls when absence makes the heart grow fonder. Refresh
ourselves at the autumn conference, Cameron has no policies, 11 years'
experience is the country's best defence against the current global storm. Be
dull, be solid, don't look down, don't look at the polls, don't look at the
party's £24m debt. Remember, polls can go up as well as down. That's the way
Labour's world risks ending - in a sorry state of delusion.

The whips who arm-twisted so manfully on the 42-day detention vote did Labour no
service: better by far to lose. Those many MPs who voted against their will were
foolish to fear destabilising an already capsized party. What are they trying to
preserve? Whatever the outcome of the bizarre and maverick byelection called by
David Davis, even if it causes Cameron some minor turbulence, for Labour to be
saved by Ukip, Ann Widdecombe and the DUP was a humiliation. It was a personal
shaming of Gordon Brown, who forced his unwilling MPs to pass a bad law born of
crude political miscalculation.

At least when Tony Blair dragged his MPs to war there was no doubt he did what
he thought right, though unpopular: because he was wrong, it was the end of him.
But here Brown knowingly did what was wrong in an absurd attempt to out-tough
the Tories and please a punitive public. The public may have supported it when
asked by pollsters, but it was a low priority they never mentioned
spontaneously. It no more inclined people to vote Labour than when Brown bribed
them with 2p off tax, stolen from the pockets of the lowest earners. Both these
are character-destroying catastrophes from which Brown can never recover,
because they betray dishonourable and dishonest intent - and that has been
rumbled by the voters. He can certainly never mention that old moral compass
again.

Most serious of all, his chancellorship is unravelling. How many times did he
say "No more boom and bust", though wiser heads warned of hubris? Many of us
warned that his wilfully untaxed property bubble would end in tears. Even the
independence of the Bank of England looks a less good idea, or at least the
remit given it too narrow. Unemployment always lags and has jagged up in latest
figures this week, but the Bank is tasked with only considering inflation. Just
when Britain may soon need a Keynesian, FDR response to recession - borrow,
spend and cut interest rates - we may have a whiff of old-fashioned monetarism
in charge at the Bank.

There's a danger Mervyn King will fight the last war against 1970s inflation
with its wages spiral. But what we have now is inflation caused not by wages,
which have hardly moved, but by world food and energy prices. No amount of
raising interest rates and putting people out of work in one small country will
have any useful deflationary effect on prices of global commodities. Meanwhile
the US is cutting interest rates. The bad news hidden away in the income
distribution figures published by the ONS this week explains much of the
rumbling disaffection with Labour in middle England. The real middle England -
at around median earnings of £23,700 - has seen its disposable income barely
rise at all. In the five years from 2001/2 to 2006/7 they had only a 4% rise,
less than 1% a year, while the country was supposed to be booming. Amid the
glitz and self-congratulation of high apparent average growth and obscene
boardroom pay, half the country was left out. Worse still, the bottom third,
which includes skilled manual workers, saw their incomes fall between 2004/5 and
2006/7.

Inequality - its highest since records began in 1961 - makes GDP growth a
virtually meaningless statistic. Ministers apologising for the poverty figures
said they had been running up the down escalator - but they could have
controlled it with a higher minimum wage and a new top tax band for the
explosion of super-wealth. John Hutton can celebrate city bonuses all he wants,
but well over half of the country - what used to be Labour's half - will not
join him.

The miserable child and pensioner poverty figures were entirely predictable
because for three years no extra money was given to them; so next year's figures
will show a third rise. There is one budget left to try to reduce figures before
a May 2010 election. (Ironically a deep recession would improve relative poverty
figures, though absolute poverty would rise.) The £2.7bn Brown spent on a tax
bribe could have been used to nearly reach the child poverty target. But he made
other choices, regressive and effectively irreversible, such as his 3p total cut
in basic income tax, cuts in capital gains and corporation and inheritance tax.
Bad financial luck has dogged his first year but his worst woes are all his own
pigeons flapping home to roost. MPs, supporters and observers like myself were
promised new clarity, purpose and conviction. We should have listened less to
the promises of his myrmidons, but looked more critically at the numbers in his
Treasury accounts.

What's to be done? Too passively, Labour faces its imminent destruction - an
electoral wipe-out of such severity it could last as long as last time.
Ministerial cars and red boxes seem to dull the edge of panic. It's unkind to
kick friends who are down: Labour is caught in the vortex of the media's theatre
of cruelty. But what does it take to wake ministers and MP somnambulists still
dozing despite the Crewe, Boris and local election shocks? The cabinet's docile
acceptance of the pointlessly destructive 42-day vote suggests they prefer to
dumbly walk the plank than to mutiny. If so, the water will close over their
heads in a couple of years with hardly a splash. Never mind them, but what of
the half of the population bound to fare even worse under the Conservatives?

Two years is a long time in politics, Labour ministers keep saying to reassure
themselves. Indeed, waiting for the inevitable may feel interminable. Unless
they seize their last chance. What couldn't you do with two years and a majority
of 66? With the recklessness of those about to die, they could do everything
they never dared for fear of the Daily Mail and the polls. Things couldn't get
worse - that could be liberating. Fearlessness is now the only possible chance
of victory. The question is whether they still have the will to live and the
youthful energy to remember what it was they meant to do.

polly.toynbee@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               53 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

National: Davis resignation: Tory shock turns to anger over one man's 42-day
crusade: Worries in shadow cabinet that byelection may become a 'pantomime'

BYLINE: Nicholas Watt, Patrick Wintour and Martin Wainwright

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1060 words


It was over a late-night plate of fish and chips at his home in west London on
Wednesday night that David Cameron found himself dealing with one of the most
bizarre episodes of his leadership.

As the glasses were being cleared away after a drinks reception in his garden
for 60 of the Tory party's top donors, Cameron made a final half-hearted attempt
over the phone shortly before 10pm to persuade David Davis to reverse his
decision to trigger a byelection.

Cameron is privately irritated that Davis's decision has taken the spotlight off
Gordon Brown at a delicate time in his premiership, but knew that his former
rival for the Tory leadership was unlikely to change his mind. The two had
talked briefly earlier in the evening, and Davis had delivered the bombshell: he
would resign as MP for Haltemprice and Howden, and provoke a byelection to be
fought on the sole issue of his opposition to the government's 42-day detention
plan.

"It is a very odd decision," one senior Tory said. "I can't explain it. How will
this play out if Labour does not stand?"

Cameron maintained his cool during the drinks reception on Wednesday night, and
did not let on, even to some of his closest colleagues, what was about to
unfold. The secrecy practised by Davis, a cloak and dagger operator of the
Westminster old school, irritated his colleagues, who found out more than 12
hours later than did Nick Clegg, the Liberal Democrat leader.

As part of his preparations, Davis held a meeting with Clegg shortly after the
votes on the 42-day plan on Wednesday evening. Davis successfully floated the
idea that the Lib Dems might like to consider not fielding a candidate in the
byelection because they agree on the 42-day issue. He also consulted Shami
Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, who warned him that resigning would be a
dangerous gamble.

Members of the shadow cabinet were furious the party was "bounced" by Davis.
There was virtually no support from senior figures for what was branded a
one-man crusade. Although none of the front bench was prepared to go public, a
number used the cloak of anonymity to express their exasperation.

"If Labour does not put up a candidate this will be a one-man crusade by David
Davis against the Monster Raving Loony party, Ukip and the BNP," one shadow
cabinet member said. "There is a slight hint of self-indulgence and a slight
element of tragedy. David cannot come back in a bigger position. He can only
come back as even more self-righteous. But will he be more morally pure with a
majority of 1,500 over the Monster Raving Loony party? He has walked the plank,
and this risks looking like a pantomime."

Another member of the shadow cabinet said: "I am surprised that, as a former
whip, he broken the key rule of the whips' office: there should never be any
surprises."

"Does he think this byelection will be his Midlothian campaign?" another shadow
minister asked, referring to the comeback by William Gladstone in 1876 which
focused on foreign policy.

Friends of Davis said he had acted in a principled way. He had been thinking
about standing down since the weekend, as he worked through the consequences of
a government victory in the 42-day vote. Davis decided to act because he feared
that Cameron would water down the Tory's opposition to the 42 day plan during
the battle that will now take place when the bill goes before the Lords. He told
friends at the weekend : "If the government wins the vote, this will all blow
up."

Within the shadow cabinet, there had been a debate over the policy last year,
when some members - notably George Osborne, shadow chancellor, and Michael Gove,
shadow schools secretary - had to be persuaded to support Davis's line.

But Cameron said the policy would remain, a position made clear by the promotion
of Dominic Grieve, who is more libertarian than Davis. "We remain fully
committed to our opposition to 42 days, and Dominic Grieve will step up our
efforts to fight against it in parliament," he said.

Only a handful of senior Tories voiced support for Davis. One of his most loyal
supporters said: "David is more Cavalier than Roundhead. He feels passionately
about this issue, and was bored with sitting in his observation post turning his
sights on the enemy. He has decided to saddle up and take a scalp. David will
come back, and he can come back as shadow home secretary. Grieve is an admirable
figure. But is he a longterm bet as home secretary?"

The decision by Davis has left Cameron with a challenge. He does not want the
focus on Brown to be disrupted by a "pantomime" byelection. But he knew if he
cut Davis adrift, the headlines would be even more damaging to the party.

In discussions with aides overnight, the Tories decided on a simple strategy:
depict Davis's decision as personal; let him stand as an official Conservative
candidate; but make clear that he cannot expect funds to be lavished on his
byelection campaign.

In a terse statement appointing Grieve, Cameron said: "This is a personal
decision for David Davis. He is a friend and colleague and I will be happy to
campaign for him in his constituency. I pay tribute to the campaign he has been
waging on behalf of the party on 42 days. But we cannot put home affairs on
pause; and it is my job to ensure that we have a team that's ready for
government."

In Davis's rural Yorkshire constituency by the Humber estuary, the debate on
civil liberties began immediately. "It's a strange decision he's made," said
Dale Evans, who runs a hydraulics company on the edge of Howden, the market town
at the centre of the area's villages and farms. "I think the 42 days is right.
They should be kept in that long. It's a personal decision, I guess, but it will
cost him some support."

Tory councillor Caroline Fox said local Tories would be loyal to Davis.
Discussing the news with a group of students in the square, she said: "He's such
a good MP and deservedly popular. This principled decision will increase that
respect."

Susan Bowden, who was having an afternoon drink with her husband, Peter, in
Howden's Wellington pub, disagreed. "I'll always vote for him because he's a man
I respect," she said. "But I think you've got to give the police a long time to
question some of these people. The threat we face is so serious, and it takes a
long time for them to puzzle everything out."

Julian Glover, page 39 >=

Leader comment, page 40 >=

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               54 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 13, 2008 Friday
                                 3 Star Edition

D-DAY DAVID DAVIS BEGINS HIS ASSAULT ON TORY LEADERSHIP BY QUITTING AS MP OVER
42 DAYS' DETENTION;
TORIES IN TURMOIL

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1334 words


THE Tories were last night facing civil war over shadow home secretary David
Davis's decision to stand down as an MP and force a by-election.

Davis, 59, astonished Westminster yesterday by announcing he was quitting to
focus attention on the "slow strangulation" of Britain's civil liberties after
the government won its Commons battle to detain terror suspects for up to 42
days.

But some claimed the right-winger's "noble endeavour" was merely a
cynically-disguised leadership challenge to David Cameron.

And they predicted the Tories would be split into a pro-Davis camp fighting
under the banner of preserving traditional British freedoms and Cameron
loyalists who are terrified of being seen as soft on terror.

A source close to Davis, 59, said there was "no bust-up, no row and no argument"
with Cameron - but admitted many would see him as a direct rival to the Tory
boss if, as expected, he wins the by-election.

Cameron himself, who beat Davis to the leadership, did little to hide his
irritation.

He said the resignation was "an unusual step" - and lost no time in appointing a
replacement.

Cameron said: "It is a personal decision and one he has made, not the shadow
cabinet or the Conservative party. My responsibility is to make sure we have the
strongest and most permanent team to take on the government and offer an
alternative. I am appointing Dominic Grieve as shadow home secretary."

And a Conservative source who was asked if Davis could return to the post some
time in the future, bluntly said: "No."

News of the resignation came hours after Gordon Brown won a Commons victory on
the 42-day issue by nine votes. More than 30 Labour MPs rebelled and the
government had to rely on the votes of Ulster's Democratic Unionist MPs to avoid
defeat.

Davis, speaking outside Parliament yesterday, said: "42 days is just one,
perhaps the most salient example of the insidious, surreptitious and relentless
erosion of fundamental British freedoms. We will have shortly the most intrusive
identity card system in the world, a CCTV camera for every 14 citizens, a DNA
database bigger than any dictatorship, with thousands of innocent children and a
million innocent citizens on it.

"This cannot go on. It must be stopped. And for that reason, today I feel it is
incumbent upon me to take a stand."

Davis later revealed Cameron thought his decision to resign was "very risky".

However, he said there was no chance that the Tory leader could talk him out of
it.

The Lib Dems, who oppose the 42-day law, have said they will not stand against
Davis in his Yorkshire constituency of Howden and Haltemprice. Neither will
UKIP.

Some Labour MPs want to snub the contest, too. They say it will expose Davis's
resignation as a stunt. If he is unopposed he will be automatically returned as
an MP.

But others insist a high-profile fight will highlight the differences between
Davis and Cameron and damage the Tories at a time when they are riding high in
the polls.

Shami Chakrabarti of human rights group Liberty praised Mr Davis's stand for
showing "courage and conviction".

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said it merely proved the Tories were in "total
disarray."

Security sources yesterday claimed the terror threat to the UK had been
deliberately kept at a "severe" level to avoid embarrassing the government
before the 42 day vote.

They said the threat was significantly lower than it had been a year ago - but
the Joint Terrorism Analysis Centre still insisted an attack was "highly
likely."

The sources said there was widespread suspicion they had delayed downgrading the
threat to "substantial" until after the vote.

BOB ROBERTS

DAVID Davis does not want to be a minister in a Cameron government.

He wants to be Prime Minister in a David Davis government.

Of course he is passionate about fighting what he calls "relentless erosion of
traditional British freedoms".

But he also knows he is playing a massive political gamble. If he loses, or just
does badly, he will be finished.

If he wins the Tories will have a man of principle and passion waiting in the
wings if David Cameron fails.

The adrenaline junkie, who once served with the territorial SAS, is following
the motto: Who Dares Win

KEVIN MAGUIRE

VAINGLORIOUS David Davis is guilty of the mother of all bad political stunts.

Gordon Brown cannot believe his luck, the Tories now ex-home affairs chief's
ill-judged wheeze is a gift to Gord.

Davis scored an own goal more spectacular than any we're likely to see in Euro
2008.

He thumped the ball into the back of David Cameron's net, who didn't even see it
coming.

The crowd heckling the Premier 24 hours ago has switched to insulting Cam's
leadership.

Make no mistake, David's humbled Dave exposing his socalled boss as too weak to
control a divided Tory team.

Mutterings of Tory tensions over opposing 42 days' detention are now out in the
open, the united front shown to be a sham.

What is clearly a point of principle for Davis is just another position for a
Cameron, who'd sell his nanny if he thought there were a few votes in it.

The passion of Davis for historic liberties is not in doubt and I agree strongly
with him on 42 days.

He clearly won the argument if not the vote on Wednesday. But his brainstorm is
a distraction from issues he champions.

Still, Brown was due a change of luck while cocky Cameron's been taken down a
peg or three.

THE RIVALS

Davis

THE 59-year-old grafted his way to the top from humble origins.

Born to single mum Betty Brown, he grew up in a council flat in South London,
where he attended Bec Grammar School.

He left with poor A-level grades but after retaking them got into Warwick
University before studying at London Business School and Harvard. He joined the
Territorial Army SAS and worked as an insurance clerk to fund his studies.

After a 17-year rise through the ranks he became boss of Tate & Lyle and was
elected MP for Boothferry, East Yorks, in 1987.

In 2001 he lost out in a leadership contest to Iain Duncan Smith. The following
year he was sacked as party chairman but bounced back as shadow home secretary
in 2003 under Michael Howard.

A right-winger, he attacked EU expansion and voted against homosexuality being
promoted in schools. He was tough on law and order and hit out at plans for ID
cards and a DNA database.

But Davis lost his second campaign to be Conservative leader when smooth-talking
David Cameron shot to victory in 2005.

The dad-of-two's image was dented when he admitted on Radio 4 that he fancied
blondes over brunettes.

He quickly added: "I shouldn't have said that, my wife's brunette."

This year Davis was dragged into a row after a pounds 20,000 donation to his
2005 leadership campaign was registered in smaller separate sums.

THE RIVALS

Cameron THE old Etonian has battled to dispel his posh image but he's true blue
from head to toe. The son of a stockbroker, Cameron grew up in swanky Kensington
and Chelsea.

After boarding at Britain's most elite school, he went to Oxford University
where he was a member of the men-only Bullingdon dining club. Now 41, he dodges
questions on whether he did drugs.

After graduating, Cameron got a job as a Tory researcher, working with Davis
briefing MPs for TV interviews. Ex-Chancellor Norman Lamont poached him as a
political adviser and together they faced Black Wednesday in 1992 when the pound
crashed out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.

In the 1990s Cameron spent seven years as a PR for Carlton TV. Bosses loved his
boardroom manner but one journalist, voicing the view of many, said he was a
"poisonous, slippery individual".

Cameron became MP for Witney, Oxfordshire, in 2001. As leader he branded himself
a modern Tory riding a bike to work. The Mirror revealed a car followed him to
Parliament with his papers.

The dad-of-three says he prefers real ale to champagne. But with Oxford chum
George Osborne as shadow chancellor, critics slammed him for elitism. Labour's
Hazel Blears said: "You have to wonder about a man who surrounds himself with so
many people who went to the same school."

Voice of Mirror: Page 10

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANNOYED David Cameron yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               55 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                              June 13, 2008 Friday
                                 1 Star Edition

D-DAY;
TORIES IN TURMOIL DAVID DAVIS BEGINS HIS ASSAULT ON TORY LEADERSHIP BY QUITTING
AS MP OVER 42 DAYS' DETENTION

BYLINE: BY BOB ROBERTS POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1294 words


THE Tories were last night facing civil war over shadow home secretary David
Davis's decision to stand down as an MP and force a by-election.

Davis, 59, astonished Westminster yesterday by announcing he was quitting to
focus attention on the "slow strangulation" of Britain's civil liberties after
the Government won its Commons battle to detain terror suspects for up to 42
days.

But some claimed the rightwinger's "noble endeavour" was merely a cynically
disguised leadership challenge to David Cameron.

And they predicted the Tories would be split into a pro-Davis camp fighting
under the banner of preserving traditional British freedoms and Cameron
loyalists who are terrified of being seen as soft on terror.

A source close to Davis, 59, said there was "no bust-up, no row and no argument"
with Cameron - but admitted many would see him as a direct rival to the Tory
boss if, as expected, he wins the by-election.

Cameron himself, who beat Davis to the leadership, did little to hide his
irritation. He said the resignation was "an unusual step" and lost no time in
appointing a replacement.

Cameron said: "It is a personal decision and one he has made, not the shadow
cabinet or the Conservative party. My responsibility is to make sure we have the
strongest and most permanent team to take on the Government and offer an
alternative. I am appointing Dominic Grieve as shadow home secretary."

A Conservative source who was asked if Davis could return to the post some time
in the future, bluntly said: "No."

News of the resignation came hours after Gordon Brown won a Commons victory on
the 42-day issue by nine votes. The Government had to rely on the votes of
Ulster's Democratic Unionist MPs to avoid defeat.

Davis, speaking outside Parliament yesterday, said: "42 days is just one,
perhaps the most salient example of the insidious, surreptitious and relentless
erosion of fundamental British freedoms. We will have shortly the most intrusive
identity card system in the world, a CCTV camera for every 14 citizens, a DNA
database bigger than any dictatorship, with thousands of innocent children and a
million innocent citizens on it.

"This cannot go on. It must be stopped. And for that reason, today I feel it is
incumbent upon me to take a stand."

Davis later revealed Cameron thought his decision to resign was "very risky".

However, he said there was no chance that the Tory leader could talk him out of
it.

The Lib Dems, who oppose the 42-day law, have said they will not stand against
Davis in his Yorkshire constituency of Howden and Haltemprice.

Neither will UKIP. Some Labour MPs want to snub the contest, too. They say it
will expose Davis's resignation as a stunt.

If he is unopposed he will be automatically returned as an MP.

Others insist a fight will show the differences between Davis and Cameron and
hit the Tories when they are riding high in the polls.

Shami Chakrabarti of human rights group Liberty praised Mr Davis's "courage and
conviction".

Home Secretary Jacqui Smith said it merely proved the Tories were in "total
disarray."

Security sources yesterday claimed the terror threat to the UK had been
deliberately kept at a "severe" level to avoid embarrassing the Government
before the 42-day vote.

BOB ROBERTS

DAVID Davis does not want to be a minister in a Cameron government.

He wants to be Prime Minister in a David Davis government.

Of course he is passionate about fighting what he calls the "relentless erosion
of traditional British freedoms".

But he also knows he is taking a massive political gamble. If he loses, or just
does badly, he will be finished.

If he wins, the Tories will have a man of principle and passion waiting in the
wings if David Cameron fails.

The adrenaline junkie, who once served with the territorial SAS, is following
the motto: Who Dares Wins.

KEVIN MAGUIRE

VAINGLORIOUS David Davis is guilty of the mother of all bad political stunts.

Gordon Brown cannot believe his luck, the Tories now ex-home affairs chief's
ill-judged wheeze is a gift to Gord.

Davis scored an own goal more spectacular than any we're likely to see in Euro
2008.

He thumped the ball into the back of David Cameron's net, who didn't even see it
coming.

The crowd heckling the Premier 24 hours ago has switched to insulting Cam's
leadership.

Make no mistake, David's humbled Dave, exposing his so-called boss as too weak
to control a divided Tory team.

Mutterings of Tory tensions over opposing 42 days' detention are now out in the
open, the united front shown to be a sham.

What is clearly a point of principle for Davis is just another position for a
Cameron, who'd sell his nanny if he thought there were a few votes in it.

The passion of Davis for historic liberties is not in doubt and I agree strongly
with him on 42 days.

He clearly won the argument if not the vote on Wednesday. But his brainstorm is
a distraction from issues he champions.

Still, Brown was due a change of luck while cocky Cameron's been taken down a
peg or three.

THE RIVALS

Davis

THE 59-year-old grafted his way to the top from humble origins.

Born to single mum Betty Brown, he grew up in a council flat in South London,
where he attended Bec Grammar School.

He left with poor A-level grades but after retaking them got into Warwick
University before studying at London Business School and Harvard. He joined the
Territorial Army SAS and worked as an insurance clerk to fund his studies.

After a 17-year rise through the ranks he became boss of Tate & Lyle and was
elected MP for Boothferry, East Yorks, in 1987.

In 2001 he lost a leadership contest to Iain Duncan Smith. The following year he
was sacked as party chairman but bounced back as shadow home secretary in 2003
under Michael Howard.

A right-winger, he attacked EU expansion and voted against homosexuality being
promoted in schools. He was tough on law and order and hit out at plans for ID
cards and a DNA database.

But Davis lost his second bid to be Tory leader when smooth-talking David
Cameron won in 2005.

The dad-of-two's image was dented when he admitted on Radio 4 that he fancied
blondes over brunettes.

He quickly added: "I shouldn't have said that, my wife's brunette."

This year Davis was dragged into a row after a pounds 20,000 donation to his
2005 leadership campaign was registered in smaller separate sums.

THE RIVALS

Cameron

THE old Etonian has battled to dispel his posh image but he's true blue from
head to toe.

The son of a stockbroker, Cameron grew up in swanky Kensington and Chelsea.

After boarding at Britain's most elite school, he went to Oxford University
where he was a member of the men-only Bullingdon dining club.

Now 41, he dodges questions on whether he did drugs.

After graduating, Cameron got a job as a Tory researcher, working with Davis
briefing MPs for TV interviews. Ex-Chancellor Norman Lamont poached him as a
political adviser and together they faced Black Wednesday in 1992 when the pound
crashed out of the European Exchange Rate Mechanism.

In the 1990s Cameron spent seven years as a PR for Carlton TV. Bosses loved his
boardroom manner but one journalist said he was a "poisonous, slippery
individual".

Cameron became MP for Witney, Oxfordshire, in 2001. As leader he branded himself
a modern Tory riding a bike to work. The Mirror revealed a car followed him to
Parliament with his papers.

The dad-of-three says he prefers real ale to champagne. But with Oxford chum
George Osborne as shadow chancellor, critics slammed him for elitism. Labour's
Hazel Blears said: "You have to wonder about a man who surrounds himself with so
many people who went to the same school."

'We will have shortly the most intrusive identity card system in the world, a
CCTV camera for every 14 citizens, a DNA database bigger than any dictatorship
has.. This cannot go on. It must be stopped'

DAVID DAVIS YESTERDAY

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ANNOYED David Cameron yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               56 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

World - Comment - Didn't he do well?

LENGTH: 514 words


Gordon Brown succeeded in steamrollering his "aren't I tough?" proposal to lock
up suspects for six weeks through Parliament, but it was at best a Pyrrhic
victory.

There is no legal or security justification for suspects to be held for such a
long time, but it was a subject chosen arbitrarily by the Prime Minister to show
what a no-nonsense leader and unremitting scourge of terrorism he is.

It has done the opposite.

It has confirmed his weakness and susceptibility to unprincipled deal making.

Mr Brown insists, as do the nine Democratic Unionist Party MPs, that their
rallying to his banner was due simply to their appreciation of the scale of the
threat to internal security rather than a promised £200 million.

And the same goes for left-wing MPs from mining areas, who may have been
expected to oppose 42 days but were promised help for arthritis-crippled former
miners.

Or for Compass MPs whose acquiescence was bought by pledges that the PM would
oppose European Union attempts to fall in line with the US blockade against
Cuba.

And heaven only knows what Tory crank Ann Widdecombe, Bob Spink of UKIP or Dai
Davies of Blaenau Gwent People's Voice were offered, or thought that they had
been offered, to secure their pro-government votes.

However, no-one should take these statements at face value. They are a fig leaf
to cover prime ministerial embarrassment.

Remember Mr Brown's response to last autumn's Conservative Party announcement,
during his "will he, won't he call a snap election?" period, of a proposal to
slash inheritance tax?

He panicked by putting out his own wealth tax proposal, insisted that his
government had already been working on it, called off the planned election
because his polling figures were dropping and then, preposterously, denied that
it was his lower ratings that had brought about the change of mind.

After a promising start to his term in office, reacting well to floods and
terrorism, his dithering and duplicity showed that it was to be the same old new
Labour image and spin.

And, since then, despite the utterly phoney efforts by a handful of Tony Blair's
close allies to imply that Mr Brown was turning his back on the new Labour
neoliberal project, he has surpassed himself in stopping at nothing to favour
big business and the rich over working people.

His latest announcement that the government will deploy troops to undermine a
planned strike of oil tanker drivers, members of Unite, will further alienate
Labour's working class base.

Yet he believes that his image will be enhanced by standing up to human rights
campaigners for the right to bang people up without charge.

This approach didn't work when the Prevention of Terrorism Act was pushed
through Parliament in jig time to deal with the IRA bombing campaign in England
in the mid-1970s.

And, unlike then, the Labour government doesn't have the support of the House of
Commons opposition parties and the House of Lords.

This was not a swift, surgical victory that allows the PM to move on. It will
drag on, it will be messy and it will surely foreshadow further humiliation at
the polls.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               57 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Britain - MPs look to Lords to throw out 42-day detention;
Fight far from over after Brown's 'hollow' Commons win

BYLINE: Louise Nousratpour

LENGTH: 444 words


Left MPs and civil rights campaigners vowed to take the fight against 42-day
detention to the Lords yesterday in the wake of the government's "hollow"
Commons victory.

Prime Minister Gordon Brown was forced to deny that he had used threats and
bribes to secure Wednesday night's vote on extending pre-charge detention from
28 to 42 days.

A revolt by 36 Labour backbenchers left the government relying on the votes of
UKIP MP Bob Spink, Tory Ann Widdecombe and the Democratic Unionist Party as the
proposal scraped through by just nine votes.

Labour rebel Diane Abbott accused the government of "trading ancient civil
liberties in a grubby bazaar," while her colleague Bob Marshall-Andrews called
the vote the "worst conceivable result" for Mr Brown.

Fellow rebel John McDonnell said: "Any attempt to present this as some sort of
victory for the government will ring absolutely hollow.

"This is no way to run a government. Securing votes by threats, bribes and
personal pleading demeans the role of the Prime Minister."

Former attorney-general Lord Goldsmith, one of the highest-profile critics of
42-day detention, said: "I have no doubt it's going to get a very rough ride in
the Lords and I will be one of those who will be opposed to this measure.

"The government doesn't have an inbuilt majority in the Lords."

Amnesty UK director Kate Allen called the vote "dangerous and disappointing,"
rejecting government concessions as "meaningless."

She vowed: "Amnesty will now take the fight to the Lords."

Even hardened Westminster players were taken aback by the ferocity of the
government operation to secure victory.

Some backbenchers claimed that they had been threatened with removal of
privileges, while Ann Clwyd was reportedly told that she would lose her role as
special human rights envoy to Iraq.

But, alongside the big stick, there were plenty of juicy carrots.

Some left MPs, such as Jon Cruddas, were enticed with the prospect of Britain
lobbying to ease EU sanctions against Cuba, while others were promised
compensation for sick miners.

Austin Mitchell backed the government at the last minute, admitting that he had
voted "to save Gordon for the nation."

THE ONES WHO HELD FIRM

Wednesday night's Labour rebels were:

Diane Abbott

Richard Burden

Katy Clark

Harry Cohen

Frank Cook

Jeremy Corbyn

Jim Cousins

Andrew Dismore

Frank Dobson

David Drew

Paul Farrelly

Mark Fisher

Paul Flynn

Neil Gerrard

Ian Gibson

Roger Godsiff

John Grogan

Dai Havard

Kate Hoey

Kelvin Hopkins

Glenda Jackson

Lynne Jones

Peter Kilfoyle

John McDonnell

Andrew MacKinlay

Bob Marshall-Andrews

Michael Meacher

Julie Morgan

Chris Mullin

Doug Naysmith

Gordon Prentice

Linda Riordan

Alan Simpson

Emily Thornberry

David Winnick

Mike Wood.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               58 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                        June 13, 2008 Friday 1:27 AM GMT

UKIP hint at support for David Davis

BYLINE: By Jonathan Isaby

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 210 words


The Lib Dems aren't standing and all signs are that Labour won't give David
Davis the fight he seeks.

So who will stand in Haltemprice and Howden?

The UK Independence Party are saying that they will not field their own
candidate and back Davis - but only if he makes the threat to liberty and
freedom from the European Union part of his campaign.

Yorkshire's UKIP MEP, Godfrey Bloom, lives in the very constituency himself and
has just issued this statement:

"I applaud David Davis's stand in defence of our fundamental British rights and
freedoms. I hope, of course, that this includes the Treaty of Lisbon, which
represents a much larger threat than any laws being debated in Westminster. In
this case, I would be happy to campaign for David Davis in this by-election."

So will Davis do a deal with UKIP which will satisfy their demands? If so, then
it's hard to see who else will put up against him apart from the Monster Raving
Loonies and one of the models from the Miss Great Britain Party.

But if he doesn't pursue a line which UKIP will sign up to, then the contest
could descend into an unseemly battle over the technicalities of membership of
the European Union and where the parties stand on that issue - which is clearly
not the road Davis wants to go down.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               59 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 13, 2008 Friday

Quixotic mission is likely to meet scant opposition

BYLINE:  Andrew Norfolk, Sam Coates

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.7

LENGTH: 342 words


Nearly 800 years after Magna Carta was sealed on the banks of the Thames, David
Davis will use the suburbs of Hull to launch a civil liberties revolution to
defend promises made by King John in 1215.

Unfortunately for Mr Davis, much of his soaring rhetoric on the steps of
Parliament went over the heads of the voters of Haltemprice & Howden, as they
discovered that from early next week they will be without an MP.

In a sign of the bizarre things to come, potential candidates for the by
election were melting away last night in an attempt to allow Mr Davis as small a
contest as possible. The Liberal Democrats, who would need just a 6 per cent
swing, have already declared that they will not put up a candidate, while Labour
is certain to do the same. Even the UK Independence Party suggested that it was
unlikely to stand.

There were rumours last night that an independent candidate with unofficial
backing from Labour might stand in order to challenge Mr Davis's opposition to
42 days. However, his principal opponent is just as likely to be a candidate
from "Beauties for Britain" - a small party fronted by Miss Great Britain that
fielded candidates in Crewe & Nantwich and Henley.

Although it seems unlikely that Mr Davies would lose the seat, his constituents
may be reluctant to participate in a single-issue referendum forced upon them by
one man's personal crusade for their civil liberties.

Mr Davis is a popular figure in the East Yorkshire market town of Howden, which
he has represented since he was elected to the constituency of Boothferry in
1987. The seat became extinct in 1997, when the town became part of a new
constituency stretching from the outskirts of Goole to the middle class western
suburbs of Hull.

By-elections cost the taxpayer up to £ 80,000. This pays for the hire of the
council buildings for the count, polling stations and staff to adminster the
election. It excludes the cost of campaigning, which Mr Davis will have to raise
himself as he is not being funded centrally by the Conservative Party.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               60 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

AND HOW HE BOUGHT OFF THE REBELS

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 191 words


The Prime Minister was forced to offer more than £1billion in 'bribes' to get
MPs to back his plans after dozens of Labour backbenchers deserted him over the
42-day vote.

COMPENSATION to suspects held for more than 28 days but later released without
charge will be in line for payouts.

COST: £3,000 per day, capped at £42,000.

BOUGHT: Two or more Labour MPs.

EXTRA cash for the Northern Ireland Executive over the next three years. Funded
by allowing Stormont to keep proceeds from assets sales and letting it keep
revenue from water rates, rather than it going to the Treasury.

COST: £1.2billion.

BOUGHT: Nine Democratic Unionist MPs.

INCREASED payouts to ex miners with lung disease.

COST: £200,000.

BOUGHT: At least two Labour MPs..

CONCESSION to count arthritis in the knee as an industrial injury to boost
compensation deals.

COST: £100,000 BOUGHT: Some northern MPs.

BACKING for lifting EU sanctions on Cuba.

COST: Caved in to Leftwingers at risk of damaging UK-US relations. BOUGHT: Fewer
than ten backbenchers.

TALKING to UKIP.

COST: Opening lines of communication with the eccentric eurosceptic party.
BOUGHT: Turncoat Tory MP Bob Spink, now a Ukip member..

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Defence of the realm: New terror measures

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               61 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

MUTINY IN THE RANKS

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 113 words


LABOUR rebels - those who voted against 42 days: Diane Abbott, Richard Burden,
Katy Clark, Harry Cohen, Frank Cook, Jeremy Corbyn, Jim Cousins, Andrew Dismore,
Frank Dobson David Drew, Paul Farrelly, Mark Fisher, Paul Flynn, Neil Gerrard,
Dr Ian Gibson, Roger Godsiff, John Grogan, Dai Havard, Kate Hoey, Kelvin
Hopkins, Glenda Jackson Dr Lynne Jones, Peter Kilfoyle, John McDonnell, Andrew
Mackinlay, Bob Marshall-Andrews, Michael Meacher, Julie Morgan Chris Mullin, Dr
Doug Naysmith, Gordon Prentice, Linda Riordan, Alan Simpson, Emily Thornberry,
David Winnick, Mike Wood

CONSERVATIVE rebel - voting in favour of 42 days: Ann Widdecombe

UKIP - voted in favour of 42 days: Bob Spink

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               62 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

Desperate Brown scrapes through: Government forced to rely on Democractic
Unionists for 42 days win: Labour rebels denounce 'grubby bazaar' dealmaking by
PM

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour and Nicholas Watt

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 845 words


A desperate Gordon Brown won his battle last night to let police hold terrorist
suspects for 42 days without charge, but was forced to rely on the support of
the Democratic Unionists and a string of extraordinary concessions to his
backbenchers to save the vote, and possibly his premiership.

Brown was accused of trading civil liberties in a "grubby bazaar", accepting a
shopping list of demands from the Northern Ireland unionists and offering a
range of promises on backbenchers' pet projects, such as compensation for
injured miners, increases in rail investment, the accountability of the
intelligence services and lifting EU sanctions on Cuba.

Brown had staked his personal authority on winning the vote, but 36 of his
backbenchers joined the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats in the No lobby,
slashing his theoretical 66-seat majority. In the end, only the support of the
nine DUP members, Ukip's Bob Spink and the Tory MP Ann Widdecombe saw the
government home by nine votes.

The Tories claimed the vote had cost the government £1.2bn. No 10 denied any
deals, insisting Brown had not known how the DUP would vote. But backbenchers
claimed Brown's backstage bargaining handed peers an excuse to vote the measure
down in the summer.

No 10 said Brown had shown himself in tune with the country and demonstrated
political courage by standing firm on an issue of national security, even if it
endangered his premiership.

This morning Brown will hold a press conference at which he will justify his
tactics and map out his future economic strategy, including G8 and EU summits in
the coming weeks. One Labour backbencher, Austin Mitchell, backed the government
at the last minute and admitted he had voted "to save Gordon for the nation. If
he had lost, he would have been on his way out".

One of the 36 Labour rebels, John Grogan, claimed the narrowness of the vote,
and the dependence on the unionists, was "the worst possible result for the
government" and it would have been "better to have lost on principle". Diane
Abbott, who said Brown had spoken to her for the first time in 20 years, accused
the government of "trading ancient civil liberties in a grubby bazaar".

Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, said: "It is a victory for pork barrel politics,
and nothing to do with principle."Mark Durkan, leader of the SDLP, said: "The
result of all that has gone on here in the last few days is a humiliating
victory."

Gordon Brown's reliance on the DUP last night revived memories of the dying days
of John Major's government when the former Tory prime minister often had to rely
on support from David Trimble's Ulster Unionists, then the biggest party in
Northern Ireland. "This has the whiff of John Major," one veteran of the Major
years said last night.

It was a day of drama, backstage deals, impassioned speeches and frayed nerves.
Conservative whips were speculating on the consequences of a tied vote, and how
the Speaker would be required to use his casting vote. Downing Street insisted
with two hours to go that it was bracing itself for defeat, and Brown's closest
allies despondently admitted they had lost.

But just before the vote, the DUP met the prime minister for talks in his study
and changed their minds. As the stony-faced DUP group left its private meetings,
they were accosted by Tory backbenchers urging them to hold to their opposition
to an extension to 42 days.

The DUP had kept the Labour whips guessing by telling MPs during the debate that
they were worried that extending detention without charge would give the
terrorists the oxygen of publicity.

The government and the DUP claimed their discussions centred solely on the
principles of pre-charge detention and Northern Ireland's history with
internment.

The DUP's Rev William McCrae insisted "hand on heart, it was a principled
decision based solely on security considerations".

But it was privately acknowledged the DUP had also pushed for a financial
package to lift the burden of new water charges, speed up asset sales and
exclude Northern Ireland from the Abortion Act

The DUP is hoping for a Anglo-American package to be announced when George Bush
and Brown visit Northern Ireland on Monday.

Keith Vaz, chairman of the home affairs select committee, was even forced to
deny claims that he had been offered a knighthood for delivering the votes of
two Muslim MPs. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, yesterday wrote to Mohammad
Sarwar MP promising to introduce an ex-gratia payment to any suspect held more
than 28 days and released without charge. The Home Office denied reports that
the compensation would be as high as £3,000 a day.

At prime minister's questions Brown insisted his proposals were not only
popular, but right. "We must take no risks with security," he said. The Tory
leader, David Cameron, said Brown had managed to construct legislation both
draconian and incompetent. "We have a symbolic assault on our liberty that is
unnecessary; and we have a procedure that is unworkable. Is not the only way to
describe what the prime minister is doing today as ineffective
authoritarianism?"

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               63 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 12, 2008

This slice of flat Yorkshire land is sure to re-elect David Davis

LENGTH: 439 words


David Davis will walk it in Haltemprice and Howden in his mantle of a sturdy
independent; there is nothing this slice of flat Yorkshire land beside the
confluence of the Ouse and the Humber likes more.

The constituency houses the only castle in the whole of the East Riding, from
which independent barons could hurl defiance at the centralised powers of London
royalty.

Its ruins stand on the edge of Wressle, which is also home to another blunt man
of the local people, Godfrey Bloom of Ukip.

His influence in the area is such that when he made cheeky remarks about
pregnancy and working women, and journalists like myself went over to vox pop,
the village tried to declare itself a no-go zone for "foreign" journalists.

David has played a similar hand much more subtly.

And his background, as the child of a single mother growing up on a council
estate in nearby York, has won him friends well outside Tory circles.

The Liberal Democrats have been the only opposition in recent years, and they
messed up in 2005 by making Davis too obviously the main target in their
offputting "decapitation" attempt to topple leading political rivals.

Their withdrawal from the field in the coming byelection means that nobody, not
even Bloom and all his village bulldogs, has a chance of stopping Davis.

His very high-profile move will be welcomed, too, as a chance to highlight the
problems of the area, which for all its general prosperity has its share of
deprivation.

The constituency reaches the outskirts of Goole, which has serious drug problems
and relatively lethargic regeneration compared to the rest of Yorkshire.

Inadequate flood defences have also enraged local villages and farms left last
year with uselessly waterlogged crops.

Transport is something which Haltemprice and Howden has also flagged up; one of
the biggest success stories has been the relocation of much of the Press
Association to Howden itself.

That depended a lot on the service of eight trains a day to London from what
many - but not Hull Trains - might see as an unimportant backwater.

The lessons for effective public transport to other places in danger of
isolation will be helped by all the banging which happens on a byelection drum.

One caution: Haltemprice and Howden isn't always the take-off pad for glorious
enterprises. Howden town's greatest claim to fame apart from its beautiful
medieval minster is the fact that Britain's biggest airship factory was
established there after the first world war.

The pride and joy of the place was the R101, which in some ways resembled a
politician at the height of his or her power and fame.

And we all know what happened to that.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               64 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 12, 2008

This slice of flat Yorkshire land is certain to re-elect David Davis

LENGTH: 641 words


David Davis will walk it in Haltemprice and Howden in his mantle of a sturdy
independent; there is nothing this slice of flat Yorkshire land beside the
confluence of the Ouse and the Humber likes more.

The constituency houses the only castle in the whole of the East Riding, from
which independent barons could hurl defiance at the centralised powers of London
royalty.

Its ruins stand on the edge of Wressle, which is also home to another blunt man
of the local people, Godfrey Bloom of Ukip.

His influence in the area is such that when he made cheeky remarks about
pregnancy and working women, and journalists like myself went over to vox pop,
the village tried to declare itself a no-go zone for "foreign" journalists.

David has played a similar hand much more subtly.

And his background, as the child of a single mother growing up on a council
estate in nearby York, has won him friends well outside Tory circles.

The Liberal Democrats have been the only opposition in recent years, and they
messed up in 2005 by making Davis too obviously the main target in their
offputting "decapitation" attempt to topple leading political rivals.

Their withdrawal from the field in the coming byelection means that nobody, not
even Bloom and all his village bulldogs, has a chance of stopping Davis.

His very high-profile move will be welcomed, too, as a chance to highlight the
problems of the area, which for all its general prosperity has its share of
deprivation.

The constituency reaches the outskirts of Goole, which has serious drug problems
and relatively lethargic regeneration compared to the rest of Yorkshire.

Inadequate flood defences have also enraged local villages and farms left last
year with uselessly waterlogged crops.

Transport is something which Haltemprice and Howden has also flagged up; one of
the biggest success stories has been the relocation of much of the Press
Association to Howden itself.

That depended a lot on the service of eight trains a day to London from what
many - but not Hull Trains - might see as an unimportant backwater.

The lessons for effective public transport to other places in danger of
isolation will be helped by all the banging which happens on a byelection drum.

There was no doubting the fierce loyalty to Davis in Howden, the pretty market
town at the centre of his east Yorkshire constituency, but plenty of supporters
disagreed with his views on 42-day detention.

"I think it's a strange decision really. I don't know whether local people are
going to agree with him - in fact I think they probably won't," said Dale Evans,
who runs his own small hydraulics business on the edge of the town.

"Myself, I think the 42 days is quite right. I think they should be kept in that
long. It's a personal decision of his, I guess, but it will cost him some
support."

"I'm very surprised but I think he'll get back in. This is an area with very
strong Conservative support," said Susan Bowden, having an afternoon drink with
her husband, Peter, in the Wellington pub, named after a famous past Tory prime
minister.

"I don't agree with him on this and plenty of others won't, but we'll vote for
him because he's a man everyone respects."

Peter, a bricklayer and dryliner retired through ill health, was also a Davis
supporter, but had a drastic solution to terrorism at odds with the retiring
MP's: "There's a dead simple solution," he said. "Shoot them."

One caution for Davis in his re-election fight: Haltemprice and Howden isn't
always the take-off pad for glorious enterprises. Howden town's greatest claim
to fame apart from its beautiful medieval minster is the fact that Britain's
biggest airship factory was established there after the first world war.

The pride and joy of the place was the R101, which in some ways resembled a
politician at the height of his or her power and fame.

And we all know what happened to that.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               65 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 12, 2008

Desperate Brown scrapes through in 42 days vote

LENGTH: 1025 words


A desperate Gordon Brown won his battle last night to let police hold terrorist
suspects for 42 days without charge, but was forced to rely on the support of
the Democratic Unionists and a string of extraordinary concessions to his
backbenchers to save the vote, and possibly his premiership.

Brown was accused of trading civil liberties in a "grubby bazaar", accepting a
shopping list of demands from the Northern Ireland unionists and offering a
range of promises on backbenchers' pet projects, such as compensation for
injured miners, increases in rail investment, the accountability of the
intelligence services and lifting EU sanctions on Cuba.

Peers warned today that the legislation would be defeated in the House of Lords.
Lord Goldsmith, the former attorney general and one of the most high profile
critics of the 42 day plan, said the bill would suffer a "very rough ride", and
accused the prime minister of pushing it through in order to show his "political
virility".

Brown had staked his personal authority on winning the vote, but 36 of his
backbenchers joined the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats in the No lobby,
slashing his theoretical 66-seat majority. In the end, only the support of the
nine DUP members, Ukip's Bob Spink and the Tory MP Ann Widdecombe saw the
government home by nine votes.

The Tories claimed the vote had cost the government £1.2bn. No 10 denied any
deals, insisting Brown had not known how the DUP would vote. But backbenchers
claimed Brown's backstage bargaining handed peers an excuse to vote the measure
down in the summer.

No 10 said Brown had shown himself in tune with the country and demonstrated
political courage by standing firm on an issue of national security, even if it
endangered his premiership.

This morning Brown will hold a press conference at which he will justify his
tactics and map out his future economic strategy, including G8 and EU summits in
the coming weeks. One Labour backbencher, Austin Mitchell, backed the government
at the last minute and admitted he had voted "to save Gordon for the nation. If
he had lost, he would have been on his way out".

One of the 36 Labour rebels, John Grogan, claimed the narrowness of the vote,
and the dependence on the unionists, was "the worst possible result for the
government" and it would have been "better to have lost on principle". Diane
Abbott, who said Brown had spoken to her for the first time in 20 years, accused
the government of "trading ancient civil liberties in a grubby bazaar".

Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, said: "It is a victory for pork barrel politics,
and nothing to do with principle."

Mark Durkan, leader of the SDLP, said: "The result of all that has gone on here
in the last few days is a humiliating victory."

Gordon Brown's reliance on the DUP last night revived memories of the dying days
of John Major's government when the former Tory prime minister often had to rely
on support from David Trimble's Ulster Unionists, then the biggest party in
Northern Ireland. "This has the whiff of John Major," one veteran of the Major
years said last night.

It was a day of drama, backstage deals, impassioned speeches and frayed nerves.
Conservative whips were speculating on the consequences of a tied vote, and how
the Speaker would be required to use his casting vote. Downing Street insisted
with two hours to go that it was bracing itself for defeat, and Brown's closest
allies despondently admitted they had lost.

But just before the vote, the DUP met the prime minister for talks in his study
and changed their minds. As the stony-faced DUP group left its private meetings,
they were accosted by Tory backbenchers urging them to hold to their opposition
to an extension to 42 days.

The DUP had kept the Labour whips guessing by telling MPs during the debate that
they were worried that extending detention without charge would give the
terrorists the oxygen of publicity.

The government and the DUP claimed their discussions centred solely on the
principles of pre-charge detention and Northern Ireland's history with
internment.

The DUP's Rev William McCrae insisted "hand on heart, it was a principled
decision based solely on security considerations".

But it was privately acknowledged the DUP had also pushed for a financial
package to lift the burden of new water charges, speed up asset sales and
exclude Northern Ireland from the Abortion Act

The DUP is hoping for a Anglo-American package to be announced when George Bush
and Brown visit Northern Ireland on Monday.

Keith Vaz, chairman of the home affairs select committee, was even forced to
deny claims that he had been offered a knighthood for delivering the votes of
two Muslim MPs.

The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, yesterday wrote to Mohammad Sarwar MP
promising to introduce an ex-gratia payment to any suspect held more than 28
days and released without charge. The Home Office denied reports that the
compensation would be as high as £3,000 a day.

Lord Goldsmith said Brown had demonstrated "the right moral commitment" in some
areas, adding: "My fear is that this particular issue over the period of
detention trial without has become a symbol of political virility."He told BBC
Radio 4's Today programme that it sent a "bad message" if the government was
prepared to "pass repressive laws just because we think that one day they might
be needed".

Goldsmith said that peers would be bolstered by the narrow majority in the
Commons, added to which the government has no in-built majority in the Lords and
faced the opposition of some on its own benches.

He also disclosed that he had opposed Tony Blair's attempt to extend the limit
to 90 days within the cabinet and would have quit rather than vote for it. He
criticised the home secretary for suggesting he had changed his mind on the
issue since leaving government.

Lord Carlile, the Liberal Democrat peer who act as the independent reviewer of
the UK's anti-terror legislation, defended the government's bill.

"I am very anxious that the law should be set firmly in place so that we do not
have to be hysterically reactive to some event in the future. We need to have
laws fit for the future," Carlile told the BBC.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               66 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 12, 2008

There were no deals over 42 day vote, insists Brown

LENGTH: 1150 words


Gordon Brown insisted today that he had done "no deal" with the Democratic
Unionist party or Labour rebels to secure the vote that saved him from a
humiliating defeat over his plans to detain terror suspects for up to 42 days.

The prime minister was accused of trading civil liberties in a "grubby bazaar"
after the Commons approved the controversial measure by just nine votes thanks
to the support of the nine DUP MPs.

But he said at his monthly Downing Street press conference: "There was no deal.
There was no deal with the Democratic Unionist party, no deal with the Ulster
unionists generally.

"And I think for people to imply that is to take away from the strength of the
argument about the need to tackle terrorism."

Suggesting the DUP backed the government only because of offered incentives was
"impugning the reputation of people who are concerned about terrorism", he told
reporters.

DUP MP Gregory Campbell also insisted that no "extraneous" matters were
discussed yesterday, although the party hoped for constructive talks in the near
future.

However, his comments suggested that the party was well aware of its powerful
position."We've certainly come out of it pivotal in any future close votes. I
don't think anyone can now dispute that," he told BBC Radio 4's Today programme.

Earlier peers warned Brown that the legislation would be defeated in the House
of Lords. Lord Goldsmith, the former attorney general and one of the most high
profile critics of the 42 day plan, said the bill would suffer a "very rough
ride", and accused the prime minister of pushing it through in order to show his
"political virility".

Brown hit back at his news conference, warning them: "I do not want to have to
come to the House of Commons and tell them that a terrorist incident had
occurred but we have not been properly prepared because we failed to take the
legislative measures necessary."

Lord Goldsmith said Brown had demonstrated "the right moral commitment" in some
areas, adding: "My fear is that this particular issue over the period of
detention trial without has become a symbol of political virility."

He told BBC Radio 4's Today programme that it sent a "bad message" if the
government was prepared to "pass repressive laws just because we think that one
day they might be needed".

Goldsmith said that peers would be bolstered by the narrow majority in the
Commons, added to which the government has no in-built majority in the Lords and
faced the opposition of some on its own benches.

He also disclosed that he had opposed Tony Blair's attempt to extend the limit
to 90 days within the cabinet and would have quit rather than vote for it. He
criticised the home secretary for suggesting he had changed his mind on the
issue since leaving government.

Lord Carlile, the Liberal Democrat peer who act as the independent reviewer of
the UK's anti-terror legislation, defended the government's bill.

"I am very anxious that the law should be set firmly in place so that we do not
have to be hysterically reactive to some event in the future. We need to have
laws fit for the future," Carlile told the BBC.

Brown had staked his personal authority on winning the vote, but 36 of his
backbenchers joined the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats in the No lobby,
slashing his theoretical 66-seat majority. In the end, only the support of the
nine DUP members, Ukip's Bob Spink and the Tory MP Ann Widdecombe saw the
government home by nine votes.

The Tories claimed the vote had cost the government £1.2bn. No 10 denied any
deals, insisting Brown had not known how the DUP would vote. But backbenchers
claimed Brown's backstage bargaining handed peers an excuse to vote the measure
down in the summer.

No 10 said Brown had shown himself in tune with the country and demonstrated
political courage by standing firm on an issue of national security, even if it
endangered his premiership.

One Labour backbencher, Austin Mitchell, backed the government at the last
minute and admitted he had voted "to save Gordon for the nation. If he had lost,
he would have been on his way out".

One of the 36 Labour rebels, John Grogan, claimed the narrowness of the vote,
and the dependence on the unionists, was "the worst possible result for the
government" and it would have been "better to have lost on principle". Diane
Abbott, who said Brown had spoken to her for the first time in 20 years, accused
the government of "trading ancient civil liberties in a grubby bazaar".

Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, said: "It is a victory for pork barrel politics,
and nothing to do with principle."

Mark Durkan, leader of the SDLP, said: "The result of all that has gone on here
in the last few days is a humiliating victory."

Gordon Brown's reliance on the DUP last night revived memories of the dying days
of John Major's government when the former Tory prime minister often had to rely
on support from David Trimble's Ulster Unionists, then the biggest party in
Northern Ireland. "This has the whiff of John Major," one veteran of the Major
years said last night.

It was a day of drama, backstage deals, impassioned speeches and frayed nerves.
Conservative whips were speculating on the consequences of a tied vote, and how
the Speaker would be required to use his casting vote. Downing Street insisted
with two hours to go that it was bracing itself for defeat, and Brown's closest
allies despondently admitted they had lost.

But just before the vote, the DUP met the prime minister for talks in his study
and changed their minds. As the stony-faced DUP group left its private meetings,
they were accosted by Tory backbenchers urging them to hold to their opposition
to an extension to 42 days.

The DUP had kept the Labour whips guessing by telling MPs during the debate that
they were worried that extending detention without charge would give the
terrorists the oxygen of publicity.

The DUP's Rev William McCrae insisted "hand on heart, it was a principled
decision based solely on security considerations".

But it was privately acknowledged the DUP had also pushed for a financial
package to lift the burden of new water charges, speed up asset sales and
exclude Northern Ireland from the Abortion Act

The DUP is hoping for a Anglo-American package to be announced when George Bush
and Brown visit Northern Ireland on Monday.

Labour MPs were said to have been offered a range of concessions including
compensation for injured miners, increases in rail investment and lifting EU
sanctions on Cuba.

Keith Vaz, chairman of the home affairs select committee, was even forced to
deny claims that he had been offered a knighthood for delivering the votes of
two Muslim MPs.

The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, yesterday wrote to Mohammad Sarwar MP
promising to introduce an ex-gratia payment to any suspect held more than 28
days and released without charge. The Home Office denied reports that the
compensation would be as high as £3,000 a day.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               67 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                                 First Edition

Labour wheels out the weak and wounded to save face

BYLINE: Colin Brown, Nigel Morris and Ben Russell

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 569 words


Even wheeling in the walking wounded was not enough. Gordon Brown was forced to
resort to blatant bribes and an alleged deal with the nine Democratic Unionist
Party (DUP) members to save his skin in the biggest Commons cliffhanger since
the days of John Major's government.

Secret MI5 intelligence briefings for the DUP members on the terror threat
facing Britain were said to have been the crucial factor that swung the vote.

After it was announced he had won by nine votes, a relieved Mr Brown embraced
the whips behind the Speaker's chair. But the knife-edge vote left Labour rebels
angry. Alan Simpson summed up their sentiments with the simple assertion: "We
have been DUPed."

The DUP denied a deal but it is understood they were promised a package of
sweeteners, including the right of Ulster to keep the revenue from water
charges, an estimated £100m in financial support for new roads and other
infrastructure projects, and the upgrading of civil service pay.

The Government firmly denied having promised Ulster it could keep £200m raised
from the sale of defence sites in Northern Ireland, but Sir Menzies Campbell,
the former Liberal Democrat leader, denounced it as "Danegeld".

The "spooks" also played a significant role. The DUP was offered a seat on the
PM's Security and Intelligence Committee. Lady Hermon, the lone Ulster Unionist
Party MP, was also invited to security briefings with MI5.

For Mr Brown, closeted away in his private room behind the Speaker's chair, it
was a day of behind-the-scenes arm-twisting and backstairs deals, broken only by
telephone calls to Barack Obama and Nicolas Sarkozy.

For the first time in years, three ailing Labour MPs were brought from their
sick beds to Westminster to be "nodded through" in the vote. Despite suffering
from a serious illness, John McDougall was brought from his Glenrothes seat, as
were John Smith, MP for Vale of Glamorgan, and Betty Williams, MP for Conwy. Jim
Dobbin, MP for Heywood and Middleton, who has had a knee replacement operation,
voted in a wheelchair.

All ministers, including David Miliband, the Foreign Secretary, were told to
cancel trips abroad. Mr Brown ticked off boxes in a left-wing shopping list to
secure enough votes. It was, they said, like raiding the "toffee shop".

Several MPs were offered a bizarre inducement by Mr Brown - a commitment to try
to lift EU sanctions against Cuba for good.

Yorkshire MPs with mining constituencies were offered £200,000 in compensation
for miners with lung disease. A further £100,000 was offered to count arthritis
in the knee as an industrial injury.

Mohammed Sarwar, a Muslim MP, was promised compensation on an ex-gratia basis
for those held for more than 28 days without charge.

Other MPs enjoying their moment in the spotlight was Robert Spink, who recently
left the Tories for the UK Independence Party. He rebuffed the advances of his
former colleagues anxious for his help and voted for the Bill.

How the PM bought votes

*DEMOCRATIC UNIONISTS

DUP offered seat on Security and Intelligence committee, plus £100m in financial
support.

*ULSTER UNIONISTS

Party's sole MP invited to MI5 security briefings.

*MINERS

£200,000 in compensation for miners with lung disease. Plus £100,000 offered to
count athritis in the knee as an industrial injury.

*CUBA

Commitment to try to get EU to lift sanctions against Cuba for good.

*COMPENSATION

Suspects held for more than 28 days without charge to get payout.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               68 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday
                                 Ulster Edition

DAY OF SHAME;
42-DAY RULE THROUGH ON A MAJORITY OF 9 10 UNIONIST MPS SAVE THE LABOUR LEADER

BYLINE: BY MAURICE FITZMAURICE

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 702 words


GORDON Brown saved his premiership last night when he scraped home in a crucial
Commons vote on terror.

Around 35 Labour MPs rebelled over measures to lock up suspects for 42 days
without charge.

The Prime Minister was forced to rely on a coalition of rebel Tories, the DUP
and the UUP's only MP to get through by 315 votes to 306.

Defeat would have plunged the PM into a fresh leadership crisis that could have
seen him ousted from No 10.

Speaker of the House Michael Martin had to restore order after the vote as
members shouted, "You were bought" at new leader Peter Robinson's team.

Last night DUP MPs lined up to deny any deal was done to secure their votes.

But after the result, Tory former leader Iain Duncan Smith accused Brown of a
multi-million pound bribe.

He said: "We understand there has been internal agreement to an extra
expenditure in Northern Ireland of some pounds 1.2billion announced today. I
wonder if you have had notice of an emergency Budget statement concerning
Northern Ireland?"

And SDLP insiders told the Daily Mirror they were offered a deal with Mr Brown
asking them: "What could we do to make you change your mind?"

But speaking outside Parliament Sammy Wilson said there were "no bribes, no
inducements".

The East Antrim MP added: "We did not vote to rescue the PM, we voted to give
police the powers they require if a complex terror threat emerges as a threat to
the UK."

However Commons insiders said Northern Ireland Secretary Sean Woodward was seen
"scurrying" between the Prime Minister's office and that of the DUP before the
vote.

Despite denials of any offers being made to the party speculation was mounting
last night that they may have been offered help with a number of issues
including the PSNI's budget, pending water charges and cash from the sale of
British Army bases in Northern Ireland. In a frantic round of meetings leading
up to the vote, DUP MPs were in talks with the intelligence chiefs as well as
Sean Woodward.

DUP MP Gregory Campbell said: "The good thing for us is it proves that the DUP
MPs are crucial.

"We will be reminding them of that on every occasion that comes into play."

SDLP leader and Foyle MP Mark Durkan said Gordon Brown had achieved a
"humiliating victory".

Speaking from Westminster he added: "Gordon Brown offered the SDLP a deal on
Sunday but we told them we were not prepared to deal in civil liberties.

"He told me he wanted to avoid a humiliating defeat. What he has got is a
humiliating victory."

Mr Brown also needed the votes of Tory rebel Ann Widdecombe and the UK
Independence Party's Bob Spink as 36 Labour MPs defied the party whips to vote
with the Opposition against the measure.

Labour rebel Bob Marshall-Andrews said: "It is absolutely catastrophic. He won
the vote on the back of the Irish vote.

That is going to play very, very badly in the country."

Veteran former Labour MP Tony Benn went further, fuming: "I never thought I
would be in the House of Commons on the day the Magna Carta was repealed."

Shadow home secretary David Davis said: "We won the argument, the Government
bought the votes and the measure is likely to be rejected in the House of
Lords."

Liberal Democrat leader Nick Clegg said it was a "sad day" for traditional
British liberties.

He added: "What we have seen is the sacrifice of principle in order to save the
skin of a sinking Prime Minister."

HOW PM BOUGHT THE VOTE

Millions in cash incentives for Northern Ireland

Up to pounds 3,000 per day for terror suspects released without charge

Promise to back compo for miners with lung disease

Opposition to tighter sanctions against Cuba

THE REBELS

DIANE Abbott, Richard Burden, Katy Clark, Harry Cohen, Frank Cook, Jeremy
Corbyn, Jim Cousins, Andrew Dismore, Frank Dobson, David Drew, Paul Farrelly,
Mark Fisher, Paul Flynn, Neil Gerrard, Dr Ian Gibson, Roger Godsiff, John
Grogan, Dai Havard, Kate Hoey, Kelvin Hopkins, Glenda Jackson, Dr Lynne Jones,
Peter Kilfoyle, John McDonnell, Andrew Mackinlay, Bob Marshall-Andrews, Michael
Meacher, Julie Morgan, Chris Mullin, Dr Doug Naysmith, Gordon Prentice, Linda
Riordan, Alan Simpson, Emily Thornberry, David Winnick, Mike Wood.

I never thought I would be in the House of Commons on the day that Magna Carta
was repealed

TONY BENN

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: DODGY RESULT Brown was blasted on tactics to clinch vote; CONTROVERSY
Vote takes place in the Commons yesterday

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               69 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

Nigel Farage, was robbed in a Brussels bar on Tuesday

BYLINE: Katherine Bergen

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 113 words


MEPS' snouts in the trough is not the only hustle going on in Brussels. MEP and
leader of UKIP, Nigel Farage, was robbed in a Brussels bar on Tuesday. He was in
Ketje's, a popular MEPs' drinking hole in lively Luxembourg Square, when
somebody knocked a chair over and created a stir. Smart-suited Mr Farage
remembers feeling a hand on his breast but only realised later that his Italian
leather wallet containing £ 300 worth of euros and credit cards had gone. He
says: "The woman standing next to me was out of the door in a flash. I
considered running after her but feared I might end up being stabbed by some
criminal gang that was part of what was obviously a major hustle."

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               70 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

£ 160k EU job for conman

BYLINE: David Wooding in Brussels

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 281 words


.. he's in charge of Justice!

A CONVICTED fraudster is to land a £ 160,000-a-year job with the EU - as head of
JUSTICE.

Frenchman Jacques Barrot will have huge power to dictate criminal law, courts
and policing in Britain and Europe.

But his appointment - due to be rubber-stamped next week - has sparked outrage
among critics of the Brussels gravy train.

Mr Barrot, 71, was given an eight-month suspended jail sentence in France in
2000 for swindling government money. He was later pardoned by former French
president Jacques Chirac, a close pal.

Mr Barrot was never barred from holding public office and failed to declare his
past when he joined the European Commission as transport chief in 2000.

Now he is being lined up for a job which will make him the second most powerful
man in the EU.

As Freedom, Security and Justice Commissioner, he will have control over laws on
environmental crime, seizure of terrorist funds, copyright and patents in all 27
EU countries.

The controversial Lisbon Treaty will also give him power to dictate how EU
countries operate criminal law, policing, courts, rules of evidence, immigration
and border controls.

He will even be able to haul national governments before the European Court of
Justice if they fail to comply with his diktats.

MEPs, under fire over lavish expenses, are due to install him on Tuesday.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage said: "What clearer indication can
there be of the corruption and hypocrisy which pervades the entire European
project from the lowest to the highest levels?"

Neil O'Brien, director of think-tank Open Europe, said: "To say this smacks of
poacher turned gamekeeper is an understatement."

d.wooding@the-sun.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               71 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                             June 12, 2008 Thursday

Brown wins this skirmish but he is still fighting for his political life

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.6

LENGTH: 119 words


Labour rebels Diane Abbott,Richard Burden, Katy Clark, Harry Cohen, Frank Cook,
Jeremy Corbyn, Jim Cousins, Andrew Dismore, Frank Dobson, David Drew, Paul
Farrelly, Mark Fisher, Paul Flynn, Neil Gerrard, Ian Gibson, Roger Godsiff, John
Grogan, Dai Havard, Kate Hoey, Kelvin Hopkins, Glenda Jackson, Lynne Jones,
Peter Kilfoyle, John McDonnell, Andrew Mackinlay, Bob Marshall Andrews, Michael
Meacher, Julie Morgan, Chris Mullin, Doug Naysmith, Gordon Prentice, Linda
Riordan, Alan Simpson, Emily Thornberry, David Winnick, Mike Wood Tory rebel Ann
Widdecombe Others who backed Government Lady Sylvia Herman (Ulster Unionist),
all nine Democratic Unionists, Bob Spink (Ukip) David Taylor (Labour) voted in
both lobbies

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               72 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            June 11, 2008 Wednesday

Brown's desperate last-ditch deals to avoid 42-day defeat

BYLINE: James Chapman, James Slack

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 758 words


GORDON Brown will today rely on desperate last-minute negotiations to head off a
crushing Commons defeat on 42-day detention.

With ministers fearing the Prime Minister could be pitched into a full-scale
leadership crisis if he loses the vote, talks aimed at winning over a handful of
rebels, Northern Irish and independent MPs were going to the wire.

Around 35 Labour MPs are expected to vote against the Government - making the
votes of nine undecided Democratic Unionist Party MPs crucial to the outcome.

Although both sides deny any deal is in the offing, it has been claimed that
ministers have offered the Ulster MPs a £200million sweetener in extra funding
to the province.

Mr Brown is personally telephoning key rebels to ask them not to inflict further
damage on the Government after a series of electoral disasters and policy
U-turns.

Labour whips have also warned MPs that a defeat could inflict mortal damage to
Mr Brown, whose approval rating among voters has slumped even below that of
short-lived former Tory leader Iain Duncan Smith.

Tonight, Labour MPs - including those who are recov- ering from operations and
women on maternity leave - have been ordered to vote.

The votes of independent MPs - including former Labour minister Clare Short and
ex-Tory MP Bob Spink, now a member of the UK Independence Party - could also
prove critical.

In another blow to ministers, a powerful joint committee of MPs and peers last
night tore apart the Government's 'safe- guards' designed to protect civil
liberties.

The joint Commons and Lords Human Rights Committee wrote to Home Secretary
Jacqui Smith warning the Government had done nothing to protect against
arbitrary detention.

It also published a letter from Miss Smith admitting that no one had been
detained for more than 14 days under existing legislation in the past 12 months.

Labour MP Andrew Dismore, chairman of the committee, said: 'We do not doubt the
seriousness of the threat from terrorism.

But it is hard to see the necessity for a still more draconian power when it has
not been necessary in the past year to use the existing exceptional power to
detain for more than 14 days.' Sir Ken Macdonald, the Director of Public
Prosecutions, is among senior legal figures who have dismissed the need for any
extension of the present 28-day limit.

However, there are signs a significant number of Labour MPs - reluctant to
deliver Mr Brown's first Commons defeat - have been won over.

Home Office Minister Tony McNulty said he was optimistic 'common sense will
prevail', although he acknowledged the vote would be tight.

Downing Street also questioned suggestions any deal was being offered to the
DUP.

'We are not working on that assumption,' one insider said. 'If you look at the
records, they almost always vote with the Tories on security issues.' Liberal
Democrat leader Nick Clegg said: 'The vote on this illiberal and unnecessary
measure is an event whose consequences will be felt for many years to come. It
is vital everyone taking part is aware of what is at stake.' The Muslim Council
of Britain also argued the legislation would damage community relations and
undermine the UK's moral authority around the world.

Secretary-general Dr Muhammad Abdul Bari said: 'It is our view this legislation
will be counterproductive and will play into the hands of extremist groups.'
Comment - Page 12

THE case to extend the time terror suspects can be held without charge to 42
days has been repeatedly 'sexed up', it was claimed last night.

Ministers and police have cited the example of two men charged with the alleged
airline bomb plot, which went up to the current limit of 28 days.

It has been used to persuade wavering MPs that, in future, there will be a need
to go beyond the limit.

But the civil rights group Liberty yesterday claimed the evidence relied upon to
charge the two suspects was obtained by the police within four and 12 days.

None of the evidence relied upon was encrypted, needed forensic analysis or was
contingent upon foreign intelligence - despite claims the case was one of the
most complex ever encountered.

Liberty Director Shami Chakrabarti said: 'I am shocked, angry and more than a
little disappointed to find ministers have repeatedly sexed up the operational
pressures on the existing 28- day detention limit.

'I hope that the similarities with the infamous Iraq vote will not be lost on
Labour MPs tomorrow.' Shadow Home Secretary David Davis said: 'This is the final
nail in the coffin of the case for 42 days.'

3% of terror arrests have ended in a conviction since 9/11

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               73 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 11, 2008

Desperate Brown scrapes through

LENGTH: 845 words


A desperate Gordon Brown has won his battle to let police hold terrorist
suspects for 42 days without charge, but was forced to rely on the support of
the Democratic Unionists and a string of extraordinary concessions to his
backbenchers to save the vote, and possibly his premiership.

Brown was accused of trading civil liberties in a "grubby bazaar", accepting a
shopping list of demands from the Northern Ireland unionists and offering a
range of promises on backbenchers' pet projects, such as compensation for
injured miners, increases in rail investment, the accountabilty of the
intelligence services and lifting EU sanctions on Cuba.

Brown had staked his personal authority on winning the vote, but 36 of his own
backbenchers joined the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats in the No lobby,
slashing his theoretical 66-seat majority. In the end, only the support of the
nine DUP members, UKIP's Bob Spink and the Tory MP Ann Widdecombe saw the
government home by nine votes.

The Tories claimed the vote had cost the goverment £1.2bn. No 10 denied any
deals, insisting Brown had not known how the DUP would vote. But backbenchers
claimed Brown's backstage bargaining handed peers an excuse to vote the measure
down in the summer.

No 10 said Brown had shown himself in tune with the country and demonstrated
true political courage by standing firm on an issue of national security, even
if it endangered his premiership.

Tomorrow morning Brown will hold a press conference at which he will justify his
tactics and map out his future economic strategy, including key G8 and EU
summits in the coming weeks. One Labour backbencher, Austin Mitchell, backed the
government at the last minute and admitted he had voted "to save Gordon for the
nation. If he had lost, he would have been on his way out".

One of the 36 Labour rebels, John Grogan, claimed the narrowness of the vote,
and the dependence on the unionists, was "the worst possible result for the
government" and it would have been "better to have lost on principle". Diane
Abbott, who said Brown had spoken to her for the first time in 20 years, accused
the government of "trading ancient civil liberties in a grubby bazaar".

Nick Clegg, the Lib Dem leader, said: "It is a victory for pork barrel politics,
and nothing to do with principle."

It was a day of drama, backstage deals, impassioned speeches and frayed nerves.
Conservative whips were openly speculating on the consequences of a tied vote,
and how the Speaker would be required to use his casting vote. Downing Street
insisted with two hours to go that it was bracing itself for defeat, and Brown's
closest allies despondently admitted they had lost.

But just before the vote, the DUP met the prime minister for talks in his study
and changed their minds. As the stony-faced DUP group left its private meetings,
they were accosted by Tory backbench MPs urging them to hold to their previous
opposition to an extension of pre-charge detention from 28 to 42 days.

The DUP had kept the Labour whips guessing by telling MPs during the debate that
they were worried that extending detention without charge would give the
terrorists ill-advised oxygen of publicity.

Government and DUP claimed their discussions centered solely on the principles
of pre-charge detention and Northern Ireland's history with internment.

The DUP's Rev William McCrae insisted "hand on heart, it was a principled
decision based solely on security considerations".

But it was privately acknowledged the DUP had also pushed for a financial
package to lift the burden of new water charges, speed up asset sales and
exclude Northern Ireland from the Abortion Act. The DUP are hoping for a
financial Anglo-American package to be announced when President Bush and Brown
visit Northern Ireland next Monday.

Keith Vaz, chairman of the home affairs select committee, was even forced to
deny claims that he had been offered a knighthood for delivering the votes of
two Muslim MPs. The home secretary, Jacqui Smith, today wrote to Mohammad Sarwar
promising to introduce an ex-gratia payment to any suspect held more than 28
days and released without charge.

The Home Office said the aim was to minimise the alienation of the Muslim
community and denied reports that the compensation would be as high as £3,000 a
day, giving an alleged terrorist £42,000 if they were held for 42 days.

At prime minister's questions Brown insisted his proposals were not only
popular, but right. He said: "I do not want, in a moment of panic, for people to
have to come to the House to bring in emergency legislation. I say in sorrow
rather than anger that it is no use having opposition for opposition's sake. We
must take no risks with security."

The Tory leader David Cameron said that through his complex compromises Brown
had managed to construct legislation that was draconian and incompetent at the
same time.

"We have a symbolic assault on our liberty that is unnecessary; and we have a
procedure that is unworkable. Is not the only way to describe what the prime
minister is doing today as ineffective authoritarianism?"

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               74 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            June 11, 2008 Wednesday
                                 First Edition

Brown enters the final 24 hours of his battle to win vote on 42 days

BYLINE: Andrew Grice and Nigel Morris

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 976 words


Gordon Brown is struggling to head off a Commons defeat tonight over his plans
to allow police to detain suspected terrorists for up to 42 days without charge.

The Prime Minister took personal charge of the last-minute arm-twisting in an
attempt to avert a defeat that would trigger a crisis of confidence in his
leadership. With more than 40 Labour backbenchers threatening to vote against
the Government, one close Brown ally claimed it was "looking grim".

Mr Brown's fate could lie in the hands of about 10 wavering Labour MPs, who may
pull back from voting against him because defeat would inflict further damage on
the party's standing.

Ministers were forced to plead with members of the hard-left Campaign Group,
some of whom Mr Brown has met three times, and the Democratic Unionist Party,
who normally vote with the Conservatives and whose nine MPs could hold the
balance.

The Prime Minister even risked a rift with George Bush on the eve of the US
President's visit to London by promising Labour left-wingers he would back the
lifting of EU sanctions against Cuba if they supported him on 42 days. Mr Bush
wants the sanctions, which include a ban on high-level visits by Cuban
officials, to be maintained but some EU countries, led by Spain, want them
abolished to encourage the new leadership in Cuba.

"It was a tempting offer but I have decided that human rights in Britain are
more important," said one left-winger who was lobbied by Mr Brown.

Whips are pulling out all the stops. One Labour MP, John MacDougall, who is ill
and rarely attends the Commons, will travel from his Glenrothes constituency to
support the Bill.

Whips are warning potential rebels that defeat would inflict terrible damage on
the Government. But Downing Street denied that Mr Brown would call a vote of
confidence if he suffers his first Commons defeat. The Government suffered a
triple setback on the eve of the crunch vote. It was accused of "sexing up" the
need for police to question terror suspects beyond the current 28-day limit.

Ministers have argued that, during Operation Overt, which exposed an alleged
plot at Heathrow airport in 2006, evidence came to light only at the end of the
28-day period. They have claimed it proves the police are "up against the
buffers" and that a longer period will be needed in future terrorism cases.

But the human rights group Liberty accused the Government of making "inaccurate
and misleading" statements about the operation. A lawyer on the case has told
Liberty that the evidence used to charge two suspects at the end of the 28-day
period was obtained by police within four and 12 days respectively. The lawyer
claimed that, during the final 15 days of detention, the interviewing of both
suspects tailed off dramatically, lasting an average of 10 and 16 minutes a day
respectively.

Shami Chakrabarti, the director of Liberty, said: "I am shocked, angry and more
than a little disappointed to find ministers have repeatedly sexed up the
operational pressures on the existing 28-day detention limit. I hope the
similarities with the infamous Iraq vote will not be lost on Labour MPs."

David Davis, the shadow Home Secretary, said the revelations were the "final
nail in the coffin of the Government's case for 42 days". He said: "It is now
clear that, in the most complex counter-terrorism case in British history, we
were nowhere near the 28-day limit. It demonstrates all too clearly why the
prosecuting authorities say that they can manage comfortably with the current
28-day limit."

The Muslim Council of Britain warned the Bill would damage community relations
and undermine Britain's moral authority around the world. Muhammad Abdul Bari,
its secretary general, said: "This legislation will be counterproductive and
will play into the hands of extremist groups."

The Government's majority was slashed by nearly two-thirds in the first
skirmishes over the Bill late last night as Labour rebels joined Tory and
Liberal Democrat MPs to challenge plans to hold inquests without a jury in
sensitive terror cases.

Mr Brown also survived a rebellion led by Andrew Dismore, Labour chairman of the
all-party human rights committee by just 23 votes on the eve of today's crunch
division. The plans were passed by 310 votes to 287.

Jacqui Smith, the Home Secretary, will try to win over Labour MPs in today's
Commons debate by promising compensation for terror suspects held beyond
the28-day limit and then released.

LEADING ARTICLE, PAGE 28

BOBMARSHALL-ANDREWS, PAGE 29

LEGAL OPINION, PAGE 35

In numbers

How the vote could shape up:

FOR

Labour loyalists 300

Conservatives 2

Ulster Unionist 1

UKIP 1

total: 304

AGAINST

Labour rebels 41

Conservatives 190

Liberal Democrats 63

SNP/Plaid Cymru 9

Independents 6

SDLP 3

Respect 1

total: 313

How the detention period would work

Day 1

Police arrest men suspected of plotting a mass attack.

Day 3

Senior officers apply to magistrates to hold suspects for up to seven days under
the 2000 Terrorism Act.

Day 7

Crown Prosecution Service applies for a further seven days' detention.

Day 14

Application made to High Court for another seven days' detention.

Day 21

Application for further seven days.

Day 27

Home Secretary says there is "grave exceptional terrorist threat" to the
country. Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and police agree longer detention
is justified.

Day 28

Home Secretary signs order bringing 42-day limit into force under 2008
Counter-Terrorism Act. Commons Home Affairs Select Committee, Parliamentary
Joint Human Rights Committee and Parliamentary Intelligence and Security
Committee are informed.

Day 29

Home Secretary tells Parliament that emergency powers activated.

Day 35

Deadline for extended detention period to be approved by the Commons and the
Lords. Detention for further seven days needs new consent from DPP and judge.

Day 42

Suspects to be charged or released.

Day 58

Emergency higher detention limit expires.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               75 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                      June 11, 2008 Wednesday 1:50 AM GMT

42 days: did Brown meet Bob Spink?

BYLINE: By

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 299 words


Adam Boulton at Boulton & Co reports that Gordon Brown wooed UKIP MP and Tory
exile Bob Spink to ask for his vote on 42 days. He hears they met one on one,
which if true illustrates the ridiculous situation the PM has got himself into:
pleading for support from the likes of Spink over an issue on which he need
never have gone to the wire.

Brown arrived at 42 days last year only by trying to outflank Cameron and aiming
straight for middle England as the supposed tax-cutter, admirer of Margaret
Thatcher and tough guy on terror ahead of an early autumn election. Backing off
that fight, he was then stuck with several not so wizard wheezes. The tax cut
was a fake, he had decommissioned the T word (Thatcher) as a Labour weapon
against the Tories and 42 days would be difficult to get past his party.

And so he walked into this pointless test of his authority over an illiberal
measure which will be easily twisted by extremist preachers and recruiting
agents. They will lie and say to Muslim youths that this proves Britain hates
Islam so much it is prepared to dump its legal traditions to pursue a vendetta.
If we really want to beat Islamofascism we will have to be cunning, not so nave
as to think that legislation of this type is the answer.

The upside is difficult to divine for the PM. Even if all the polls suggest that
the public is in favour of 42 days, he is getting no credit from the voters.

A win in the vote will help woo back middle England, say his supporters. More
likely is that it will not be noticed by the bulk of an electorate preoccupied
with economic problems and refusing to listen to Labour's story. However, it
will alienate, possibly irretrievably, small 'l' liberal voters who thought
Blair disregarded civil liberties and that Brown promised a different approach.

LOAD-DATE: November 8, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               76 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                             June 10, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

THE MYSTERIOUS MR. NO;
The campaign against the Lisbon Treaty in Ireland is buoyant, thanks in large
part to the zeal of Declan Ganley. But the question remains: who is bankrolling
him? By David McKittrick;
A crucial vote for Europe

BYLINE: David McKittrick

SECTION: WORLD; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1471 words


Outside Dublin's Croke Park traders were selling hats, scarves and T-shirts to
the thousands of fans on their way in to watch Dublin play Louth at Gaelic
football. A well-dressed, well-groomed highly articulate man with an English
accent was on a rather different selling mission, handing out, not sporting
paraphernalia, but copies of the Lisbon Treaty on Europe's future.

The man, Declan Ganley, should be a member of Ireland's elite establishment: he
is after all a millionaire, living in a mansion in Galway and owning a
Rolls-Royce, a Merc and a helicopter. Yet the establishment is intensely fearful
of him, because of the highly effective role he has played in persuading Irish
voters to reject the Lisbon Treaty and send the European Union back to the
drawing board.

They worry in Brussels too, apprehensive that an anti-Lisbon vote would deliver
a huge setback to the entire European project.

While all of Ireland's major political parties are urging the electorate to turn
out and support the Treaty in this Thursday's referendum, 39-year-old Mr Ganley
has been at the centre of the campaign against the document.

His performance seems certain to help notch up the highest negative vote ever
recorded in Ireland's periodic referendums on European issues. The latest
opinion poll puts the Yes campaign only three points ahead: the No people may
even win.

On the surface, Mr Ganley seemed on Sunday to have little enough in common with
the fans streaming into Croke Park. Yet although vendors seemed to be selling
few scarves, Mr Ganley and the other anti-Lisbon campaigners have been doing a
roaring trade in pushing for a No vote.

An unscientific straw poll of fans produced a large anti-Lisbon majority. "I'm
voting No," said one woman. "We had to fight for freedom and I don't like to see
that thrown away."

A young man added: "I'll be voting No. I've heard the tax would go up. It would
affect the money we're earning." A cheerful woman in her fifties, wearing a
jester's cap in Dublin colours, said: "We won't have a proper vote in Europe if
we go with the Yes vote, so we're voting No."

A middle-aged couple shook their heads: "The government is terrible, so we're
voting no. The rich are getting richer and the poor are getting poorer."

A man in his forties, wearing sunglasses, was one of the few Yes supporters:
"Ireland has done very well out of Europe. I know the arguments against but
they're mainly spurious, with people wanting every single axe to grind."

More representative was the young man who declared: "I just don't agree with a
lot of what they're going to do. I would be generally pro-European but not on
this Treaty. It's a step too far as far as I'm concerned."

Many opponents of the Treaty insist they are pro-Europe, but do not feel that
voting No makes them bad Europeans. Mr Ganley repeatedly makes this point:
"Ireland is a pro-European country," he said, raising his voice above the din of
horns from the fans. "We want Ireland to be at the heart of Europe, but we want
a democratic and accountable Europe and the Lisbon Treaty gives us the
opposite."

Lisbon, he contends, is bad for the Irish economy, in particular endangering its
low rate of corporation tax. It would, he says, reduce Ireland's influence and
hand over much power to Brussels.

He can hardly be accused of being insular, since he has amassed his fortune with
international ventures which have taken him to the US, Russia, Bulgaria and
Latvia where he once worked as an adviser to the government. His English accent
comes from the fact that he was born in London, though his Irish-born parents
took the family back to live in rural Co Galway when he was 13.

In some ways he did not fit in, but he compensated with precocious
entrepreneurial flair which emerged in his teens. After school he went from
working on construction sites in London to a lowly position in an insurance
company before going on to build a business career ranging from aluminium in
Russia to forestry in Latvia, telecommunications in Bulgaria and jewellery on
the internet. Some of his concerns have not been huge successes, while others
are said to have been sold on for phenomenal sums. What is clear is that until
this campaign, he was much better known in the business world than in political
activity and that he has concentrated on international rather than Irish
activity.

Some of his many companies do business with the US military-industrial complex -
one supplies emergency response systems to the military - leading some in the
Yes camp to portray him as a shadowy figure with connections to neoconservatives
whose organisation is being bankrolled by sinister money from outside Ireland.
One senior figure asked: "Are they getting it from the CIA, the UK Independence
Party or their friends in the US military?" Certainly, his campaign movement
Libertas has spent plenty of money. On Sunday, for example, he could afford to
have a private plane soar over Croke Park trailing the message "Keep Europe off
the pitch - vote No".

Libertas, which dismisses all such suggestions, is one of a wide range of
anti-Treaty groups ranging from the far-right to the far-left. They concentrate
on different areas affected by the Treaty and indeed in some cases areas which
are, arguably, not affected by it at all. The key word is "arguably" since the
Treaty is almost 400 pages long and so filled with legal complexities as to be
unintelligible to the layperson.

The Prime Minister, Brian Cowen, admitted he had not read it "from cover to
cover". Ireland's European commissioner, Charlie McCreevy, added that "only a
lunatic" would try.

Mr Ganley attracted interest by saying he had gone through it, a feat which
earned him the nickname "The Man Who Has Read the Treaty."

The sheer length and density of the document means that the campaign has ranged
over workers' rights, a European army, Irish neutrality, discharges from
Sellafield nuclear plant, abortion and euthanasia. These are reflected on the
posters enlivening Dublin: "We don't want EU military expansion," proclaimed
one. "Don't vote EU taxation," said another while a third urged: "People died
for your freedom, vote No."

Sinn Fein is prominent in the No campaign, arguing that Lisbon gives Brussels
too much power, would damage the economy, undermine neutrality and drive down
salaries.

A familiar pattern has emerged in this campaign: referendum propositions
generate automatic coalitions of opponents who may have very different and
indeed contradictory reasons for opposing them. One Irish politician remembers
the late British Labour leader John Smith saying privately that the trouble with
referendums is that people often answer questions they weren't asked.

A government supporter, handing out Yes leaflets near Croke Park, complained:
"The Yes campaign has a more difficult task. The No campaign can cherry-pick
areas - but I have to sell the entire Treaty, as it is."

The trouble for the Yes people is that the Lisbon Treaty offers no obvious
reward for supporting it, either in terms of idealism or practical benefits. And
most voters seem to have concluded that there is no real penalty involved if
they vote No.

A further tactical disadvantage for the Yes people is that the No campaign was
much faster out of the traps, becoming active from the start of the year, long
before major parties got organised. Since then almost the entire establishment -
business, farmers, major trade unions, media - have lent their weight to the Yes
campaign. The big political beasts like Mr Cowen are out on the streets and
finally seem to be making up lost ground, though it will take a late swing to
deliver a Yes victory.

But a problem lies in the standing of the political classes themselves, whose
reputation has taken a severe pounding through the years of the corruption
tribunals, still in session after many years of unsettling revelations.

But at a deeper level Irish opinion seems disenchanted with the European project
itself. The elite is still as pro-Brussels as ever, but comments such as Mr
McCreevy's have added to the familiar criticism that people at the top are
becoming more complacent and condescending.

Ireland was once hugely, automatically pro-European, originally in terms of
idealism and later in terms of major funding. But eaten bread is soon forgotten,
and now that monies are diverted to newer EU entrants Irish Euroscepticism is
rising.

This may seem ungrateful, since EU money helped create the Celtic Tiger. And, at
another important level, it has greatly increased national self-respect and
self-assurance.But self-assurance tends to bring a decrease in deference, as the
Irish electorate is showing.

A Yes vote will allow the European project to continue. A No vote would produce
the paradox that the Irish, long so pro-Europe, could hold up the entire thrust
of continental development.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               77 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                              June 9, 2008 Monday

GIVE ME HYDE PARK ANY DAY&;
1) EURO 2008 2) ALAN FRASER S SCREEN TEST The highs and lows of TV

BYLINE: ALAN FRASER

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 76

LENGTH: 522 words


THE sun is shining, the garden is in a full bloom, the sardines are starting to
sizzle on the barbecue and the sound of leather on willow can be heard from a
nearby field. Suddenly, the unmistakable strains of Mozart fill the air.

The idyll is broken with the realisation that the music signals not the perfect
accompaniment to the perfect summer's day but the start of Euro 2008, the
sporting equivalent of joining the UK Independence Party.

Would anyone in their right mind prefer Switzerland v Czech Republic on BBC1 to
factor 30, a 99 ice cream and a 73 bus to Hyde Park? Predictably, both the BBC
and ITV, who are sharing coverage of the 31 matches, relied on Wolfie for their
theme tunes, or the 'local lad', as Gary Lineker called the Austrian composer.

There followed what is destined to remain the worst attempt at humour the
tournament is likely to produce, even though it came before a ball had been
kicked.

'Music by W(H)AM,' Lineker said.

'Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart.

The BBC's highly-paid striker followed up by describing the goal attempt of
Switzerland's Hakan Yakin as lackin' and the Czech Republic's 1-0 victory as a
'win off the shin'. These lame attempts at rhyming wit will have to stop.

Matt Smith, presenting ITV's first match in the absence of Grand Prix-detained
Steve Rider, managed a more sophisticated stab at satire prior to the evening
kick-off. 'Geneva,' he said, 'normally turns the lights out at this time on a
Saturday night.' Unlike Vauxhall in London, where Craig Doyle had been
dispatched.

One suspects that when the former Holiday programme faithful retainer
transferred to ITV Sport he did not think he would end up on a street corner
outside a Portuguese bar interviewing a toddler. The poor child. He had been
warned about never working with animals and Craig Doyle.

ITV benefited in the opening skirmish by drawing Portugal, always worth
watching, and, despite my fears to the contrary, there was a notable
contribution from Manchester United captain Gary Neville. He even managed
something approaching a smile.

His assessment of Ronaldo   an

Old Trafford team-mate and a subject about which he should possess specialist
knowledge   was both insightful and different. We all know about the goals, the
speed, the ball control, the tricks etc. But Neville found something else to
say.

'Left and right footed, built like a light-heavyweight and he heads the ball
like a second division centre half,' the United stalwart declared. There will be
second division defenders still dining out on being compared to Ronaldo come the
start of next season.

Back at the Beeb, Messrs Hansen, Shearer and O'Neill looked as if they would
have preferred to be in a dentist's waiting room. Gordon Strachan sounded his
usual cheerily miserable self, however.

While Arsene Wenger had arrived in Switzerland with his cheque book, Strachan
had brought the famous Celtic biscuit tin. His worry was whether the European
clubs would take Scottish pound notes.

'We're cheering for people who play in the Premiership,' Alan Hansen said.

'Why?' Martin O'Neill responded.

That is precisely how I feel about this tournament. Why? Why watch?

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               78 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                              June 9, 2008 Monday

The cost of EU antics

SECTION: FEATURES; Leading Article; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 376 words


Will the row over Tory MEPs' expenses become a story about Tory sleaze or
Euro-sleaze? A few more revelations about Conservative front-benchers and the
opinion poll revival will be checked, as voters conclude that the Tories are
still guzzling away at the teat of public funds, 1990s-style. If, on the other
hand, Labour and Lib Dem MEPs are also shown to be behaving improperly, then
anger will be directed not at the Conservatives but at the EU - which may
actually boost the Tories, who are seen as the least Euro-enthusiastic of the
three main parties.

Mr Cameron will be hoping for this second scenario, and he may well be
vindicated. After all, the reason that his MEPs are coming under so much
pressure is that they volunteered information about whom they employ. There will
now be pressure on Labour and

Lib Dem MEPs to disclose equivalent information.

A recent survey of Britain's MEPs by the think tank Open Europe asked some very
gentle questions - such as who handled their staff allowances, whether they had
retained any of the money or employed any family members, and so on. Thirteen
out of 28 Conservative MEPs refused to answer. But so did 15 out of 19 Labour
MEPs and eight out of 11 Lib Dems. (Nine out of 10 UKIP members responded, as
did both Greens.) What do these other parties have to hide? Why have they been
so muted in response to the Tories' travails? Could it be that they are up to no
good themselves?

Mr Cameron has asked his party's compliance officer to look at the problem. He
should start by requiring answers to Open Europe from all 28 MEPs. But it is
time that questions were asked, too, of the parties that refuse even to discuss
what they do with what is, after all, public money. There is a growing sense
that MEPs, shielded as they are from the voters by party lists and closed
selections, have become arrogant and lordly, helping themselves to allowances
and disdaining their critics. Nor is this sense confined to Britain. In Ireland,
too, people are waking up to the fact that those who are telling them to vote
for Lisbon are part of a political class paid by Brussels. At least the Irish
have the good fortune to be able to tell their politicians what they think of
them. We hope they take the opportunity on Thursday.

LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               79 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 8, 2008

Why impossible is nothing for the mysterious Mr No

BYLINE:  Richard Oakley

SECTION: FEATURES; Eire News; Pg.13

LENGTH: 958 words


IT'S 1.30am on Thursday and Declan Ganley is sitting in an armchair next to his
full-sized snooker table smoking a Montecristo No 2. There is a well stocked bar
in the games room but the mysterious "Mr No", as he has become known, doesn't
drink. The cigars, he says, are his only vice, writes Richard Oakley.

Despite another long day on the campaign trail, Ganley is still abuzz with all
things Lisbon. "Can you win it?" he is asked. "You know I can," he half-jokes.
"Absolutely. It is possible, but it's nowhere near in the bag."

Earlier that day he spent hours glued to his Blackberry as his Libertas "battle
bus" trundled from the Burlington Hotel in Dublin to Castlebar in Mayo for a
public meeting. He just about had time to order, but not eat, a T-bone steak.
Even though most of the 50 people who attended his talk were already convinced
No voters, he stayed late to mingle with them.

Castlebar town is an hour's drive from Ganley's Moyne Park house in Tuam, Co
Galway. Everyone on the bus - the driver, two volunteers, three foreign
journalists and The Sunday Times - were invited to stay as guests.

The palatial house, once owned by Donovan, the Scottish singer-songwriter, dates
back to 1825. The 39-year-old Ganley bought it in December 1995 and now lives
there with his wife and four children. Huge chandeliers hang from high, ornate
ceilings; paintings adorn the walls; and the wide halls lead to large, spacious
rooms with views of extensive grounds. There was one for everybody on the bus.

Out back there is another building of similar size and an indoor swimming pool.
In the front Ganley's Mercedes S-Class is parked next to his 99 G Rolls Royce.
There is also a man-made lake with its own mini-island.

Ganley's bus is due to return to Dublin at 7am, but he is going ahead by car at
5am. "Declan doesn't really need a lot of sleep," one of his staff explains.
Maybe so, but you can't help wondering why any businessman would give so much
time to a campaign that mainly concerns politicians. Ganley's answer is a
version of the Adidas slogan: "Impossible is nothing."

"Some people look at challenges and they decide that they won't take them on,
because it can't be done," he said. "But for me, if something is a good idea, if
it is right, then it is worth doing.

"I started reading the treaty as a businessman looking for opportunities. I
finished reading it as a father of four worried about my children's future."

Ganley is sharp-witted, knowledgeable, often funny. Energetic, he can also seem
a control freak. He "vets" volunteers, "hates being late" and appears to be
enjoying the attention he is getting.

"After one public meeting, a Fianna Fail person came up to me, told me the party
was watching me, taking down what I said and sending it back to headquarters. I
said 'Good, in that case, tell Brian Cowen he should read the f***ing treaty'."

Ganley has been forced to field questions about the source of his wealth, his
motives and his financial backing. He says his campaign is financed by
contributions, but opponents ask how he can afford to be spending as much as
Euro 1.3m.

When asked about the profitability of Rivada, his US-based communications firm,
he says nothing. Later, after more persistent questioning, he says sales for
this year could be as high as $140m.

Then he takes Euro 200 from an envelope in his pocket. "This is a donation from
a taxi driver," he said. But Euro 1.3m represents a lot of generous taxi
drivers. Ganley has an unusual business history. He didn't go to college but
made money, he says, buying and selling aluminium, privatising sawmills in
Russia and exporting timber before moving into telecommunications, his "number
one interest". After hearing this story in Moyne Park, a Danish journalist
joked: "I wish I sold aluminium."

Ganley likes to name-drop and doesn't deny US links. Al Gore, he says, stayed at
his home and he claims he was once a guest of the Clintons. But he rejects the
conspiracy theories. "Apparently, I'm being backed by the CIA, UKIP and the
American military. What's next? I'm working for Martians? I get advice from
lizards?"

Ganley has struggled to impress during a number of televised debates but given
time at public meetings, he is a clear speaker with a strong conviction. Before
he began talking in Castlebar he was heckled by Mick Connolly, a former oil rig
worker. "Go on, tell us what is wrong with Lisbon, in your English accent," he
was mocked.

Ganley was unfazed. He used the interruption as an excuse to explain his
background as the son of Irish parents who lived in London until they could
afford to return. "Okay, you're sound, now get on with it," Connolly replied.

On this occasion Ganley dwelled less on issues such as abortion and taxation and
concentrated instead on the loss of power and influence he claims Ireland will
suffer if Lisbon is passed. "The Yes side, the government and the elite in
Brussels are taking you to be an awful eejit. They are shoving this treaty down
your throat. Taking you for fools," he said. Connolly seemed converted: "They
want the big jobs in Europe. That man is talking sense," he shouted.

Later, when reminded that he hadn't been asked any difficult questions, Ganley
replied: "I can only bat the balls that are thrown my way".

With four days to go to polling day there will be plenty more batting, but for
Ganley the issues are clear. "It's the choice of the Irish people. If enough
people get enough information, if they understand the treaty, they will
definitely vote No. If they don't get enough information, if they fail to
understand the issues, they should vote No. I would prefer if everyone did the
former, but I will take the latter."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: sb


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               80 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                           The Sunday Times (London)

                                  June 8, 2008

The tycoon taking on the Lisbon 'eejits'

BYLINE:  Richard Oakley

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; News; Pg.21

LENGTH: 569 words


IT'S 1.30am on Thursday and Declan Ganley, leader of the Irish campaign against
the EU treaty, is sitting in an armchair next to his snooker table, smoking a
Montecristo No 2. After another long day on the campaign trail, the 39-year-old
is still abuzz with all things Lisbon.

Why would a UK-born businessman with interests in America give so much time to a
campaign that mainly concerns Irish politicians?

"I started reading the Lisbon treaty as a businessman looking for
opportunities," he says. "I finished reading it as a father of four worried
about my children's future."

Ganley appears to enjoy cocking a snook at the Fianna Fail government and Brian
Cowen, Ireland's new prime minister.

"After one public meeting, a Fianna Fail person came up to me, told me the party
was watching me, taking down what I said and sending it back to headquarters. I
said, 'Good, in that case, tell Brian Cowen he should read the f****** treaty'."

But he has been forced to field questions about the source of his wealth, his
motives and his financial backing. He also faces suspicions that he is not truly
Irish.

He was born in London, the eldest son of west of Ireland emigrants who returned
to Galway when he was 13. He didn't go to college but - after a stint on
building sites in London and a job as a tea boy at an insurance company - he
made money, he says, buying and selling aluminium, privatising sawmills in
Russia and exporting timber before moving into telecommunications.

Having made his money, he moved back in style to Moyne Park House, an early 19th
century mansion in Tuam, Co Galway, with his American-born wife Delia and their
four children.

A devout Catholic, he has what one old acquaintance calls "a touch of more
Irish-than-the-Irish about him". But Rivada, his latest communications venture,
is based in America and supplies emergency response systems to the US military's
Northern Command and other clients. He says sales for this year could be as high
as $140m.

Ganley likes to name-drop and doesn't deny American links. But he rejects the
wild conspiracy theories for his No campaign. "Apparently, I'm being backed by
the CIA, the UK Independence party and the American military. What's next? I'm
working for Martians? I get advice from lizards?"

He has struggled to impress during televised debates, but at public meetings he
is a clear speaker with a strong conviction. At a meeting in Castlebar, Co Mayo,
he was heckled by a former oil-rig worker called Mick Connolly.

"Go on, tell us what is wrong with Lisbon, in your English accent," mocked
Connolly.

Ganley, unfazed, explained how his parents had lived in London until they could
afford to return to Ireland, and then launched an attack on the loss of power
and influence he claims Ireland will suffer if Lisbon is passed.

"The 'yes' side, the government and the elite in Brussels are taking you to be
an awful eejit. They are shoving this treaty down your throat. Taking you for
fools," he said.

Connolly seemed converted. "They want the big jobs in Europe. That man is
talking sense," he shouted.

Ganley said later: "If enough people get enough information, if they understand
the treaty, they will definitely vote no. If they don't get enough information,
if they fail to understand the issues, they should vote no.

I would prefer if everyone did the former, but I will take the latter."

LOAD-DATE: June 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: st


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               81 of 85 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                              June 8, 2008 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Can the EU's revived constitution survive the week or is it all over?;
FOCUS

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan

SECTION: NEWS; 10

LENGTH: 1315  words


LABOUR'S bid to bind Britain closer to Brussels could be foiled this week as the
European Union is forced to face some makeor-break challenges. In what may prove
to be a political watershed, the re-worked European Constitution will be put to
the test with a historic referendum in Ireland.

And the Government's refusal to hold a public vote will come under the spotlight
when it faces a legal and parliamentary challenge.

Defeat in the High Court or House of Lords could force Prime Minister Gordon
Brown to give the British public their long-denied say on the re-named Lisbon
Treaty.

At the same time, a "no" vote in the too-close-to-call Irish referendum would
plunge the European Union into chaos and stall sweeping plans for reform.

The treaty was drawn up to replace the European Constitution that was rejected
by voters in France and the Netherlands in 2005. It must be ratified by all 27
member states in 2008 and is due to come into force in 2009.

The Government, which promised a referendum in its manifesto, insists there is
no need for a public vote.

But campaigners argue the Lisbon Treaty is the Constitution in all but name and
have accused Labour of running scared of a vote it cannot win.

Like the Constitution, the treaty creates a new European President and Foreign
Affairs Minister and signals the end to national vetoes in 55 areas of policy.

The Prime Minister insists no vote is needed because he has agreed safeguards on
sovereignty on key aspects - the so-called "red-line" areas.

But his position will be challenged in the High Court tomorrow and Tuesday by
millionaire spread-betting tycoon Stuart Wheeler.

His judicial review will be heard in a divisional court, with two judges,
including Lord Justice Richards, the Court of Appeals specialist on European
matters.

Ruth Lea, director of the nonpartisan campaign group Global Vision, said: "Next
week is a vital one for the future of the country in the EU.

"If Stuart Wheeler is successful in his judicial review, the British people will
be given their promised referendum on the Treaty.

"Similarly, if the Lords vote for a referendum, this opens up the real
possibility of a referendum. And finally, if the Irish people were to vote "no"
to the Lisbon Treaty, this would, at the very least, hold up the enforcement of
the Treaty and could possibly lead to a period of reflection." In the wake of
the judicial challenge, Mr Brown must also brace himself for a crucial
parliamentary vote on whether the Government should honour its pledge for a
referendum.

In a spectacular U-turn, the Liberal Democrats have abandoned their manifesto
promise to campaign for a referendum. Lib Dem peers have been ordered by Whips
to vote with the Government, suggesting the Bill should squeak through even if
most crossbench peers back a referendum.

The last-ditch stand in the Lords will be followed on Thursday with the
referendum in Ireland - the only one of Europe's 27 nations to give its citizens
the final say.

The results are due on Friday and latest opinion polls suggest the result will
be anything but a walkover for the "Yes" campaign.

On paper, the referendum looked like a certainty in favour of the treaty.

Fianna Fail leader and Ireland's new taoiseach Brian Cowen is still enjoying a
political honeymoon. The country's second largest party, Fine Gael, and the
Labour Party all back the Treaty.

But confusion over what the treaty will mean for the Republic's citizens,
combined with anger over falling house prices, rising inflation and slowing
economic growth has narrowed the gap.

Rejection by the pro-European nation would turn the next EU summit on June 19
into a crisis conference.

It would also increase pressure on Mr Brown to halt the treaty's parliamentary
ratification in its closing stages and declare European reform dead in the
water.

Victory, however, would not leave Mr Brown out of the political woods.

Neil O'Brien, director of the thinktank Open Europe, explains: "Polls suggest
the majority of the British public think the Government lied to them over the
Treaty, so when bad things start happening, things will get very awkward for the
Government. It will come back to haunt them." Ministers' assurances that the
public has nothing to fear from the treaty have done little to convince sceptics
that Labour is not only blind to the EU's true agenda but powerless to prevent
ever closer union.

Critics have long warned that the red-line areas, where Britain retains its
veto, will be eroded in the unceasing march towards a federal Europe.

Lord Howell, the Conservative foreign affairs spokesman in the Lords, warned
last week that assurances Britain would retain control over its diplomatic
service were already being called into question with the creation of the
European External Action Service. He warned that not only was the service "going
ahead apace" even before the treaty had been ratified but many aspects of its
role would be decided by majority voting.

Campaigners warn this is a small but significant example of how the treaty will
differ on paper and in practice. They say if foreign policy is not watertight
there can be no guarantees on areas such as taxation and asylum.

The European Commission is talking about asylum burden-sharing to take the
strain off countries with the highest number of claims - Spain, Malta, Italy and
Greece.

The UK has the power to opt out of this, but the Commission could apply
political thumbscrews by yoking burden-sharing to Britain's right to expel bogus
asylum seekers.

Under the Dublin II agreement Britain can deport 100 bogus claimants each month
to the European country they first arrived in.

Commissioner Franco Frattini has made it clear that he wants Dublin II to be
updated to include burden-sharing. To opt out of that, Britain risks losing a
powerful weapon in the war against bogus claims.

Baroness Hanham, Conservative Home Affairs spokeswoman in the Lords, said:

"The Government claim that the red lines will hold by means of the opt-out
possibility.

"However, what safeguards remain are not easy or often even desirable to
implement. There are clear indications that the UK will be forced to make some
unpalatable decisions as a result of the loss of our veto."

BUT if the Lisbon Treaty is a political headache for Gordon Brown it risks being
a splitting migraine for Conservative leader David Cameron. So far he has
managed to dodge the Euro bullet but, with European elections a year away,
Treaty ratification in Britain will force him to take a stand.

Would an incoming Conservative government simply accept the treaty as a fait
accompli? Would it give us the referendum it says we deserve or seek to pull us
from the treaty - in effect, forcing a renegotiation of our entire relationship
with the Union?

The Eurosceptic wing of the party is demanding answers and has forced a meeting
with party chairwoman Caroline Spelman amid accusations that the Tory European
parliamentary candidates being selected are all pro-European patsies.

But if Britain is denied a referendum next week, the issue will come back to
haunt all three main parties on June 11, 2009 - the date of the European
elections.

UK Independence Party leader Nigel Farage says: "We will be telling the country
that this vote should be the referendum everyone else is denying you.

"When French President Nicolas Sarkozy takes over the European Presidency in
July the whole European project will become much more aggressive. There is a
mood in Brussels of 'Let's get this Treaty ratified and complete the project'.

"Top of the list is the single European army followed by a common immigration
and asylum policy.

"There is no prospect of reforming the Common Agricultural Policy or Common
Fisheries Policy as only eight member states want any serious reform, so even if
all three missiles next week turn out to be duds, far from the European issue
going away it will provoke even greater anger in Britain."

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: SIGNS OF THE TIMES: Ireland is seen as one of the most pro-European
nations but posters including Sinn Fein's, right, suggest this week's poll is
still in doubt
NO HANDOUTS: Gordon Brown will get little from EU chief Manuel Barroso

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               82 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                             June 7, 2008 Saturday

'No risk' paedo migrant to stay

BYLINE: Charlotte Spratt

LENGTH: 191 words


A JUDGE sparked outrage yesterday by ruling that an illegal immigrant who
sexually abused a young girl for three years was "not dangerous" - and free to
stay in Britain.

Pervert Nurul Islam will cost taxpayers more than £ 200,000 after being jailed
for 5 1/2 years.

Indian-born Islam, 35, of Oxford, began preying on the victim when she was 12.
He admitted ten counts of sex acts on a child.

But Judge Julian Hall told him at Oxford Crown Court: "I do not make a
recommendation for deportation and I do not find you are dangerous.

"This is not a man who is going to go out on to the street looking to cause
harm."

The Home Office says criminals from outside Europe should be deported if jailed
for more than 12 months.

The judge's decision was slammed as "outrageous" by UKIP MP Bob Spink last
night.

He said: "This man has broken the law to get into the country, then broken the
law while he is here."

Mark Wallace, of the Taxpayers' Alliance, added: "This sends out an awful
message."

Judge Hall previously jailed a rapist for only two years, saying his ten-year
old victim was dressed provocatively.

The sentence was doubled by Appeal Court judges last year.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved

                               83 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Times (London)

                              June 6, 2008 Friday

Cameron forces resignation of the Tories' leader in Brussels after expenses
scandal

BYLINE:  David Charter, Francis Elliott and Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg.6

LENGTH: 1353 words


Next the spotlight turns on MEPs' chief whip

David Cameron was under pressure to ensure the probity of his MEPs last night
after forcing the resignation of the Conservative party's leader in Europe over
an expenses scandal.

Mr Cameron welcomed publicly the decision of Giles Chichester the MEP who
admitted to breaking European Parliament rules by channeling £ 445,000 of
allowances through a family company.

His position was viewed as untenable partly because he had been given the job of
a sleazebuster by Mr Cameron to ensure the integrity of Tory MEP expenses.

Mr Chichester's decision to quit followed a day of furious behind-the-scenes
exchanges as Conservative central office insisted on his departure. Mr Cameron's
senior officials were desperate to prevent a resurgence of headlines about Tory
sleaze that could damage the party's commanding lead over Labour.

Mr Chichester, 61, was stripped of his leadership job after admitting on Tuesday
that he broke the rules by paying his allowances through Francis Chichester Ltd,
a map company founded by his late father, the round-the-world yachtsman.

He did not help his case by apparently making light of it. "It is embarrassing
not least because I have introduced a new code for my Conservative colleagues
for expenses. Here I am leading that process for the last couple of months and -
whoops a daisy - I am shown up to have made a mistake. OK, hands up, mea culpa,
and I will put it right," he told ITV Westcountry.

Mr Chichester faced more questions yesterday from The Times, not least how he
could account for paying himself £ 5,000 a year in rent from the company for a
Mayfair property that he owns, and how much he and his wife received as the
company's only paid directors.

There was criticism last night of Mr Cameron's decision to allow him to remain a
Conservative MEP and fight the next European election in 2009. Mr Chichester was
reselected earlier this year to stand again in his constituency of the South
West of England and Gibraltar. Mr Cameron's next test will be trying to exert
control over his 28 MEPs in Brussels who have a reputation for defying the
London party and causing headaches for successive party leaders.

Last night the spotlight was also cast on Den Dover, MEP, the Conservative Chief
Whip in Brussels, after he recently admitted paying his entire European
Parliament expenses to a company run by his wife and daughter. A Conservative
spokesman said that Mr Dover had assured the party that there had been no misuse
of public funds.

Mr Chichester left the European Parliament last night heading for his London
home without making a comment to The Times, but issued a resignation statement
after leaving the building. "I apologise once again for the fact that I have
been in breach of the parliamentary rules, he said.

"I wish to allow myself the space to prepare my report to the parliamentary
authorities and demonstrate that monies were properly spent and accounted for."

Although MEPs are encouraged to set up companies to handle their office and
staff expenses, Mr Chichester is understood to have been told earlier this week
by parliamentary officials that he had broken the conflict of interest rule that
prevents MEPs from benefiting or seeming to benefit from those companies. A
detailed inquiry by the Parliament will decide if he has to repay some of the
cash.

Pressure on Mr Cameron to take decisive action grew during the day. By late
morning a Tory spokesman said that Caroline Spelman, the Conservative Party
chairman, was demanding to see all the MEP's accounts within 48 hours. "We want
to see every penny in and every penny out," said a Tory source. The onus would
be on Mr Chichester to prove that he had done nothing wrong, the source added.
The Tory leader had wanted initially to set a 24-hour deadline but had agreed
reluctantly to extend it at Mr Chichester's request.

Faced with the prospect of further revelations by The Times today, the party's
headquarters in London again pressed for early sight of the relevant documents
in early afternoon. Soon after 2pm there was unofficial confirmation that Mr
Chichester would go.

In a statement issued at 5pm the Tory leader said: "Giles Chichester is right to
stand down as leader of our MEPs to prepare a full explanation of how his office
is funded. Just as I expect our MPs to adhere to the highest standards so must
our MEPs.

"The tax-paying public have a right to know how their money is spent and
politicians have a duty to ensure that it is spent properly."

Mr Chichester's resignation is likely to intensify controversy over how he - and
other Tory MEPs - were recently reselected. Fearing defections, Mr Cameron
authorised a tightly controlled ballot that placed incumbents at the head of the
list of candidates automatically. The measure was approved to thwart a
threatened grassroots purge of pro-European MEPs.

Ms Spelman agreed recently to a meeting with activist representatives who are
angry that she is withholding information on the conduct of the election.

There were questions last night over whether Mr Chichester, 61, should be
allowed to continue as Tory MEP and stand in next year's European elections.

Neil O'Brien, director of the Open Europe think-tank, said he should stand down.
He said: "The Conservatives have made the right call. After such a clear breach
of the rules, Chichester's position as leader in the European Parliament was
clearly untenable. If this is serious enough to resign the leadership over, it
is serious enough to warrant resigning as an MEP."

He added: "The Conservatives would not be able to fight the next election as the
anti-sleaze party if they are carrying someone who has been forced to resign
over sleaze."

Nigel Farage, the UKIP leader, added: "The explanation for this case is
insufficient and the public deserves better. Any MEP caught misusing funds
should step down."

Companies House documents show that Mr Chichester appears to have taken £ 5,000
a year in rent for his own home in Mayfair, West London, from the company to
which he pays his European Parliament expenses. Giles Chichester, his wife and
two of his children are registered there on the electoral roll.

Francis Chichester Ltd gave a total of £ 40,000 rent between 1996 and 2003
directly to Mr Chichester, company accounts state. The stated explanation is
that the money was "in respect of office accommodation". Francis Chichester
Ltd's accounts were last audited in 1998. Since then, the company has exercised
its right as a small enterprise to submit unaudited accounts.

One of the directors of Francis Chichester Ltd, at the time these arrangements
were in place, was the late George McWatters, a Conservative activist and heir
to the Harvey's Bristol Cream fortune. Since 2002 Giles Chichester and his wife
have been the map company's only directors.

Mr Dover has admitted recently that he pays his expenses to a family company run
by his wife Kathleen, 68, and his daughter, Amanda, 40. His daughter gets more
than £ 20,000 a year for acting as a part-time helper.

The handwritten declaration was made on April 3, 2008. Mr Cameron imposed an
April deadline on his MEPs to disclose the names and salaries of their staff to
restore public confidence. Mr Dover's declaration about his contract with M P
Holdings states: "My wife manages all my secretarial services. My daughter is a
part-time assistant and is a fully qualified secretary. Both these are required
to work very unsociable hours in Brussels, Strasbourg and throughout the
north-west of England (including all weekends)." M P Holdings has a "turnover"
of £ 125,000 a year and administrative expenses of £ 126,000.

BRUSSELS GRAVY TRAIN

Euro 1.3bn

annual budget of European Parliament

Euro 47,352

annual MEP office allowance

Euro 185,952

annual staff allowance

Euro 134,291

paid to each Italian MEP,

the top earners

Euro 9,276

paid to each Bulgarian MEP,

the lowest earners

Euro 87,358

paid to each British MEP,

the fifth-highest earners

LOAD-DATE: June 6, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: tt


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               84 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                             June 4, 2008 Wednesday

Reply Letters and emails: Labour's efforts to reinvent itself

BYLINE: Dr Peter Gardner

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 102 words


Paul Farrelly MP (Letters, May 31) seriously misunderstands Ukip. At root, we
are concerned about the preservation and regaining of the democracy and
self-government that both Labour and Conservatives have given away to the EU. We
want trade and friendship with our continental neighbours, but we don't want our
government to be subcontracted out to Brussels. It is only in the rather sparse
imagination of the establishment parties that Ukip is xenophobic, though the
concept is also useful to them, along with the barely concealed charge of
racism, to damage the party's image.

Dr Peter Gardner

Chairman, Oxford Ukip

LOAD-DATE: June 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               85 of 85 DOCUMENTS



                               The Sun (England)

                              June 3, 2008 Tuesday

Letter

LENGTH: 64 words


THE EU are trying to stop UKIP and the Independence And Democracy group having a
say in the Euro parliament. Even federalists are alarmed.

EU Commission president Jose Manuel Barroso threatens Ireland "will pay" if they
vote the Lisbon Treaty down. What sort of dictatorship is this? Never has this
country been so betrayed by so few to the detriment of so many.

MIKE HALL

Worksop, Notts

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD
                              All Rights Reserved
