
                               1 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 29, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

An absurd tactical ploy - and the paradox of the new Liberal Democrat leader's
position

BYLINE: Dominic Lawson d.lawson@independent.co.uk

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 40

LENGTH: 1148 words


Nick Clegg is so angry that he has started hurling metaphors.

Following the Speaker's decision not to allow a Parliamentary debate on his
party's suggestion of a referendum on whether to leave the EU, the new leader of
the Liberal Democrats has declared: "It is like allowing the British public to
choose their mode of travel without asking whether they actually want to
continue on the journey at all."

Well, if we are to descend to metaphors, here's another one: Imagine you are at
a restaurant with some friends, sharing the bill. You have all eaten two courses
and are now discussing whether to order some pudding. Suddenly one diner says
that the debate should actually be about whether it was a mistake to have eaten
the previous dishes.

When he is politely told not to be so silly by his companions, he walks out of
the restaurant.

This, it seems to me, is a reasonable description of the Liberal Democrats'
behaviour as they stagily stalked out of the House of Commons after the Deputy
Speaker declared that their suggested amendment really had nothing whatever to
do with the contents of the Lisbon Treaty bill, and therefore would not be put
to a vote.

It is possible to have some sympathy with the Liberal Democrats. Theirs is a
bleak and arduous struggle to capture the attention of the media. Finally they
manage to arrange a notable Parliamentary stunt - and their coup de theatre is
simultaneously and coincidentally trumped by five activists from a group called
Plane Stupid who had clambered onto the roof of the House of Commons. No wonder
Mr Clegg is angry.

Sympathy, however, can only go so far when the victim's claim to be suffering
over an issue of high principle is so obviously absurd: the Liberal Democrats
had followed Gordon Brown in deciding to renege on a manifesto commitment to a
referendum on what was called the European Constitution and now, for entirely
cosmetic reasons, is redesignated as "The Lisbon treaty".

Nick Clegg, in fact, had long been a powerful advocate of a referendum on the
proposed new EU constitution - whose "substance is preserved by the Lisbon
Treaty" according to no less an authority than Angela Merkel.

In a newspaper article chastising Tony Blair for not offering such a referendum
- before the then Prime Minister changed his mind - Mr Clegg wrote: "The real
reason, of course, why the Government does not want to hold a referendum is the
fear that it may lose.

"It is the same fear that led Peter Hain to camouflage the constitution with
comic inaccuracy as nothing more than a tidying up exercise."

Nick Clegg, then a Liberal Democrat MEP, went on to argue that Blair had thereby
"allowed the Europhobes to shift the argument away from the constitution itself
and onto shriller claims about the democratic legitimacy of the whole EU.

"By forcing the phobes to argue on the substance of the text, a referendum [on
the Constitution] would expose the hollow hysteria of their polemic."

This is the same amiable and charming Nick Clegg - I am assured that it is - who
now demands a vote "on the democratic legitimacy of the whole EU" instead of one
on the "substance of the text" of the amended Constitution. Mr Clegg will insist
that, unlike those he calls "phobes", he will argue that the public should
support continued membership of the EU. Yet in this, he is gratuitously picking
a fight with nothing more than the UK Independence Party (UKIP) - hardly an
elevated or highly evolved form of political struggle. Now that The Speaker's
office has understandably decreed that the Liberal Democrat amendment had no
connection to the measures contained within the Lisbon Treaty Bill ( a point
which Mr Clegg airily described as "clapped-out 19th century procedure") it
would be possible for LibDem MPs to vote for, or against, an amendment calling
for a referendum on the Treaty itself. Instead, however, Mr Clegg has imposed a
three line whip on his party not to vote at all on this measure. It seems
unlikely that every single one of the LibDem MPs will obey this extraordinary
attempt to deny them a vote on an issue of such importance.

The party's Justice spokesman, David Heath, has said that he was prepared to
lose his front bench job "if that is a consequence of voting for a referendum on
the treaty."

Such a split would be especially painful for Nick Clegg, since the real reason
why he is adopting this peculiar line is precisely to hold his party together.
In fairness to Mr Clegg, this is a ruse which was hatched by his predecessor,
Ming Campbell, just before his final party conference as leader of the Liberal
Democrats.

The idea of a referendum on the Constitution has had solid support from what one
might describe as the "Liberal" end of the merger between the old Liberal Party
and the Social Democratic Party: their historic strength is in the South West of
England, where a hearty Euroscepticism - provoked above all by the Common
Fisheries Policy - is more or less endemic.

However, the Social Democratic Party was created by ex-Labour MPs - notably Roy
Jenkins and Shirley Williams - horrified by the way in which Tony Benn's
supporters were manoeuvring the Labour Party towards adamantine opposition to
British integration into the European political mainstream.

The old Social Democrats had been shocked when Tony Blair, purely in order to
steal the Conservatives' one distinctive and popular policy, had suddenly agreed
to hold a referendum on the European Constitution.

They knew what Blair, in his characteristically hubristic manner, chose to gloss
over: that the public would most probably vote 'no' to the Treaty - and the so
called 'pro-Europeans' in British politics would thereby suffer a stunning
defeat. I'm told that after Gordon Brown had decided to abandon the Blair
commitment to a referendum Shirley Williams, now Baroness Williams of Crosby and
former leader of the LibDems in the House of Lords, had threatened to resign and
rejoin the Labour Party, unless Ming Campbell likewise abandoned the dangerous
policy of giving the British people a vote on the Lisbon treaty.

The artificial and insincere idea of offering us instead a vote on 'in or out of
the EU' was Ming Campbell's way of wriggling out of the Liberal Democrats'
commitment to a vote on the amended constitutional treaty without making the
party look 'undemocratic'. This was a particular concern given the LibDems'
constant refrain that it is much closer to the grass roots than the two 'old'
parties, which are supposedly more divorced from public opinion (a claim which
seems always to survive the awkward fact of those parties' much greater public
support).

That is one paradox.

The other is that a Liberal Democrat leader who constantly stigmatises "the
narrow politics of Westminster" has been reduced to impotent rage because of the
failure of a contrived policy designed purely to accommodate the divisions in
his own Parliamentary party.

LOAD-DATE: February 29, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               2 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                          February 28, 2008, Thursday

How Europe's gravy train crosses the world

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 594 words


They are the new aristocrats of Europe - elected representatives who enjoy free
summer holidays, dinners at Michelin-starred restaurants, an on-call chauffer
service and generous second pensions entirely funded by the taxpayer.

But MEPs who take full advantage of their well-funded allowances are often not
breaking any rules technically, as a secret audit hushed up by the European
Parliament would show, were it ever to see the light of day.

The shocking truth about the gilded life of some MEPs is that their largesse is
mostly sanctioned by the Brussels Establishment that refuses to publish its own
research into the many possible fiddles or to hold an open debate about root and
branch reform.

One well-known trick involves the overseas travel allowance, an annual pot of
Euro 3,500 a year for trips outside Europe on EU business.

It was too much to resist for the British MEP said to have enjoyed a relaxing
holiday in Thailand.

"I remember him coming back from his summer holiday boasting about how he pulled
a fast one," said one Brussels official yesterday, who refused to name the MEP.

"He went to Thailand for a holiday and made sure that he popped into the
European Commission office in Bangkok for a half-hour meeting. This was
officially recorded and used to claim the whole trip on expenses."

Similar tales are common in the coffee bars of the European Parliament. Another
MEP is said to have used the same method to attend his daughter's wedding in the
United States.

"They have designed a system where it is actually harder to be honest than to be
dishonest," said Jeffrey Titford, a UK Independence Party MEP and one of the few
members of the European Parliament's budget control committee to vote on Tuesday
to publish the secret auditor's report, which is said to have many
recommendations for reforms.

Few MEPs are prepared to discuss openly how the gravy train works, citing the
vilification of one Tory member who cheerfully recounted how he quite
legitimately filled his boots at public expense.

Robert Goodwill was an MEP for Yorkshire and the Humber when he disclosed the
widely used air ticket scam. He would buy flights to Brussels for £ 250 and
claim the allowance for a full-priced ticket of £ 500.

"I can pocket the difference and, as a capitalist, also as a British
Conservative, I see it as a challenge to buy cheap tickets and make some profit
on the system," he said back in 2000. Reform was promised and finally, by 2009,
actual tickets will be used for determining expenses.

European democracy is a hot ticket for many MEPs, especially those from humble
backgrounds in former Iron Curtain countries, who are suddenly able to take
advantage of generous medical insurance for themselves and their families, the
European Parliament on-call chauffeur service for journeys about town worth up
to Euro 50 a week, and the priority boarding pass at Brussels airport. Then
there are the consultancies and the invitations.

"Every British MEP will be invited to a royal garden party and dined at the
finest restaurants," one MEP's assistant said yesterday.MEPs can look forward to
a comfortable retirement. As well as a first pension based on the MPs' system,
they can take out a second pension funded one third by themselves and two thirds
from the public purse to the tune of about Euro 2,000 a month.

Currently, annual pay is the same as the national MP's salary, giving Euro
87,358 a year to British MEPs but only Euro 9,276 to Bulgarian members. They
cannot wait for next year, however, when a new flat rate of about Euro 84,000
will be introduced.

LOAD-DATE: February 28, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               3 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday

Extreme factions gang up on treaty;
LETTERS

SECTION: IRE; Pg. 55

LENGTH: 1039 words


THE coalition of those who oppose the Lisbon Reform Treaty is reaching
ridiculous levels.

Last Wednesday, Mary Lou McDonald in the European Parliament was given an
ovation by UK Independence Party (UKIP) MEPs, each sitting behind their mini
Union Jacks, when she spoke against the Treaty.

UKIP is a small, Right-wing, hardline, Eurosceptic party made up largely of
former Tories who want Britain to leave the EU.

The image of former Tories in UKIP, a former DUP MEP, Sinn Féin and Jean-Marie
Le Pen all banded together to oppose the Lisbon Reform Treaty should remind
voters of just what is at stake. The extreme Right and the extreme Left have
come together to oppose a treaty supported by moderates.

I believe it is a good deal for Ireland and for Europe. The Dáil was kept
involved from start to finish through TDs at the convention and their reports to
the Oireachtas European Affairs Committee, which I chaired.

The fact that Eurosceptics from the Left and Right are coming together to oppose
it should alert voters to the real agenda being pushed by some people in their
attempts to sabotage Europes Lisbon Reform Treaty.

GAY MITCHELL MEP, Dublin 2.

Holiday caution

ID LIKE to offer a warning to any holidaymakers travelling to Spain. The warning
is issued from my experience of living in Spain throughout the summer of 2006
and is aimed primarily at young night-clubbers.

Spanish and immigrant youths are targeting males and females who are the worse
for wear on an evening out. I was witness to the aftermath of these attacks
because it happened to my own family.

My son (19 at the time) went to help two Irish lads and their girlfriends who
were being assaulted outside a club in Benalmadena on the Costa del Sol. A lad
from Newcastle also tried to intervene and he and my son were attacked with
bamboo canes.

The sole intention of the attackers was to rob the vulnerable as they left clubs
in the early hours of the morning. I heard of many similar incidents during my
time in Spain. My children were lucky; others were robbed and beaten, and some
hospitalised. Out of season, these attacks are rare, but as we approach the
holiday season, they increase, because there are so many easy targets.

Dont expect a lot of help from the police, because if you are inebriated they
appear to take the view that it serves you right.

BILL RYAN, Ardlougher, Co. Cavan. of these upstanding members of political life
using that old chestnut we must await the findings of the tribunal, they are
actually saying: We do not give a damn what you, the public, think because we do
not live in the real world and the rules that govern you do not govern us.

And guess what, they are right . . . unfortunately, they are dead right.

ANTHONY McGEOUGH, Dublin 24.

Tackling corruption

ONCE again, Marian Finucane and her carefully selected guests on Radio One
indulged their weekly rant against the Mahon Tribunal how it was costing the
taxpayer so much, prying into the private life of poor Bertie, and so on. Its
the same, tired old Fianna Fáil song, week after week after week.

Leaving aside the fact that the tribunal has more than paid for itself in
recovered taxes, what has emerged clearly from the evidence is that Frank
Dunlop, G.V. Wright, Don Lydon, Liam Lawlor, Colm McGrath and Ray Burke like the
Watergate burglars could not have survived and continued to operate without the
knowledge, protection and, at least, connivance of those at the top of the
party.

We know Charles Haughey was corrupt, but we also know the corruption went on
long after his departure and continues to this day. The allegations now being
investigated implicate Albert Reynolds and Bertie Ahern. Cargo-bridge dealt with
allegations that implicated Mr Aherns likely successor, Brian Cowen.

Unless the link to the top is exposed and excised, the corruption will continue
unabated. It is imperative the tribunal be allowed to continue to do its work
for as long as necessary until the current and future leadership is indicted or
exonerated.

MARY WILSON, Garryowen, Limerick.

Absent Ahern

IT APPEARS the country is going to have an absentee taoiseach for the
foreseeable future.

We are facing a number of serious challenges, not least on the economic and
labour relations front. Our health service is facing a cash crisis and continues
to suffer from a huge lack of public confidence.

There is infighting between the HSE and Department of Education, which are at
loggerheads over a schools autism unit.

A referendum is due to take place on the Lisbon Treaty, which may not be carried
because most of us cannot understand what its about. The Mahon Tribunal
continues to investigate Bertie Aherns financial affairs and requires his
attendance as a witness.

This would be enough to keep any government leader and his ministers feverishly
working round the clock. So what does our Taoiseach do? He will fly off on a
number of foreign trips, and then, of course, theres that oh-so-special address
to the U.S. Congress.

Its plain that this Government, just nine months after a General Election, is
lethargic, bereft of ideas and rudderless.

We have a major crisis of leadership, the likes of which we havent faced since
the Haughey era. The only cure is for the Taoiseach to face reality and resign.
We could then face the future with confidence, assuming, of course, his
successor remains for some considerable time in the country.

JOHN OBYRNE, Dublin 6.

Pale and proud

HOW refreshing to see a celebrity apparently not afraid to let people see her
the way nature intended.

I mean Nicola Roberts of Girls Aloud, whose perfect translucent complexion made
Kimberley Walsh, standing beside her, look cheap and fake.

In the 18th century and before, northern European women prized their pale
complexions so highly that they cheated with white lead powder and even had blue
veins painted on their chests to simulate pale skin. The red-haired English
Queen Elizabeth spent a fortune and probably poisoned herself trying to look
whiter than white.

Now, it seems that white women, uniquely, are ashamed of their natural colouring
and would prefer to risk skin cancer rather than be seen the way nature
intended.

They even seem to prefer the ridiculous orange tones that result from bottled
tan.

STAN BRENNAN, Waterford.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Strange bedfellows: Lisbon Treaty opposition brings together both Gerry
Adams and Jean-Marie Le Pen

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               4 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 26, 2008 Tuesday

Reply: Letters and emails: Haven't we had our say on Europe?

BYLINE: Alan Pavelin and David Green

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 37

LENGTH: 259 words


I find Lib Dem leader Nick Clegg's reasons for a referendum on European Union
membership somewhat bizarre (Ask the under-50s, Comment, February 25). If it is
needed because nobody under 50 has ever had a say, then logically we should hold
a similar referendum every 30 years. Not only on that issue, but presumably on
any other deemed constitutional, such as the present set-up of the UK.

In truth, the public effectively have their say at every general election. For
example, in 1983, the Labour party stood on a platform of quitting the EU and
was resoundingly defeated.

It is not widely known that the Lisbon treaty will, for the first time, enable
any member state that wishes to leave the EU to do so. Were I a Ukip supporter,
I would therefore be furiously campaigning for ratification of the treaty, and I
cannot understand why the anti-EU lobby is actively trying to deny itself the
legal means of achieving its aim.

Alan Pavelin

Chislehurst, Kent

* I would also welcome a referendum on whether we remain in the EU. However,
this proposal has already been tabled in the Commons by the Lib Dems, and was
heavily defeated by 464 votes to 68 on November 14 last year.

Given that we Liberals are habitually obliged to prosecute our politics by the
expression of preferences, can I assume that if Clegg's first preference for a
referendum on the UK's membership of the EU does not find favour, then his
second preference will logically be support for a referendum on the future
direction of the EU as set out in the Lisbon treaty?

David Green

Southport, Lancashire

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               5 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                           February 26, 2008, Tuesday

Secret report reveals 'fraud on massive scale' by MEPs

BYLINE: David Charter in Brussels

SECTION: OVERSEAS NEWS; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 424 words


A report on the misuse of expenses by MEPs is likely to be kept secret by the
European Parliament despite growing calls for it to be made public.

The internal audit exposes money-making scams without naming individuals and
shows "embezzlement and fraud on a massive scale", according to the MEP who
revealed its existence.

But parliament insiders said that today's meeting of the budget control
committee would not result in publication because senior figures were afraid of
setting a precedent on publishing confidential auditors' documents.

The row will be an embarrassment for Hans-Gert Pottering, President of the
parliament, who begins a two-day official visit to Britain today with a meeting
with the Queen.

Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat who revealed the existence of the internal
audit, said: "I don't think it will be made public because the poachers are in
charge of the game park. MEPs might introduce reforms after the next elections
when half of them have changed because it is just too embarrassing for them
now."

The report can be viewed by the budget control committee only on condition that
it goes into a sealed room, does not take notes and does not reveal its
contents.

Neither of the two biggest groups in the European Parliament - the Socialist
group that includes Labour MEPs and the EPP that includes the Conservatives -
would declare an official position on publication last night. The Lib Dems and
the UK Independence Party will both call today for it to be released.

But Chris Heaton-Harris, a Conservative MEP on the committee, said: "It would be
much easier if this discussion was had on the basis of the facts rather than on
hearsay. They are worried about parliament's reputation being damaged but it has
already been damaged."

A parliament insider told The Times: "The report by the internal auditor is
confidential and I am expecting the confidentiality to stay. I expect some MEPs
to call for publication but this is up to the Secretary-General of the
Parliament (Harald Romer, the most senior administrative official of the
parliament) and the Bureau (the president Mr Pottering and 14 vice-presidents,
all senior MEPs). There are a lot of procedures that cannot be circumvented. In
the case of the internal auditor it is standard procedure and publication would
set a precedent."

A request by The Times to all 78 of Britain's MEPs last Wednesday to declare
whether they pay family members using their EU allowances has found that 19 of
54 respondents do so. Of the 24 MEPs who failed to respond, 14 were
Conservatives.

LOAD-DATE: February 26, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               6 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 24, 2008 Sunday

EU Parliament votes not to take any notice of the people's wishes

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 387 words


THERE WERE surreal scenes in Strasbourg last Wednesday as the European
Parliament prepared to ratify the Lisbon Treaty by a huge majority. (It says
something for the reverence in which we hold that parliament that not a single
British national newspaper bothered to report the fact.) Dressed in yellow
chicken suits, three protestors against the refusal of EU governments to allow
referendums on the treaty were chased round the corridors and up and down the
staircases of the futuristic building by 15 burly security men trying to arrest
them.

When Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party and one of the 50 MEPs of
different parties who have been leading the pro-referendum campaign, was
summoned to this fracas, he was interviewed by a television crew. Pointing out
that no officials had intervened last month when the parliament was invaded by
anti-GM Greens dressed as bananas, he asked why it was only pro-democracy
protestors who had to be silenced?

At the end of the interview, Anne-Margrete Wachmeister, head of the parliament's
audio-visual unit, gave orders that Mr Farage' s comments must not be broadcast.
Overhearing this, Shirin Wheeler, presenter of the World Service's Record
programme (and daughter of the distinguished BBC correspondent Charles Wheeler)
intervened to say that, unless this order was withdrawn, the BBC would withdraw
its parliamentary coverage from both Strasbourg and Brussels. The official
backed down.

Meanwhile in the chamber itself the battle continued. When it was proposed that
the parliament "would respect the result of the Irish referendum'', the only one
to be allowed on the treaty, only 129 MEPs (including one Tory, Nirj Deva)
supported it, while 499 (including four Tories) voted that the wishes of the
Irish people should not be respected. But what if they vote in favour of the
treaty? It is good to know that our democracy is in such reliable hands.

* This Wednesday there will be a mass lobby of MPs at the House of Commons
organised by the all-party "I Want A Referendum'' campaign. At 2pm I will be at
the Central Hall, opposite Parliament, to kick off an afternoon of speeches in
support of the campaign, which is also this month staging 10 constituency-wide
referendums involving half a million voters. I hope to see a good many Sunday
Telegraph readers there.

LOAD-DATE: February 24, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               7 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 22, 2008 Friday

MEPs accused of fiddling £100million expenses fund

BYLINE: Ian Drury

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 666 words


EURO MPs have been accused of 'criminally abusing' a £100million expenses fund.

The money is supposed to be used by politicians to pay for staff, but a secret
internal audit exposed alleged widespread irregularities.

British MEPs last night insisted their hands were clean - but they still face
being embroiled in an inquiry by anti-corruption officers.

Senior politicians were accused of trying to cover up the report to avoid a
scandal. But it is now likely to be handed over to OLAF, the EU's anti-fraud
watchdog.

The abuses were revealed by British MEP Chris Davies, who has seen the report
into a random audit of 167 payments. He said the guilty should be jailed.

Each of the parliament's 785 members is entitled to spend up to £125,000 a year
for assistants, a total of almost £100million. The audit, however, without
naming individuals, says MEPs have claimed thousands of pounds even though they
do not employ anyone.

Huge sums were also allegedly funnelled into the coffers of political parties.

In an attempt to keep the report secret, only Euro MPs on the budget control
committee have been allowed to see it. They have to apply to enter a 'secret
room' protected by biometric locks and security guards. They are not permitted
to take notes and must sign a confidentiality agreement - but Mr Davies, who
sits on the budget committee refused to be gagged.

Instead, he memorised crucial details and spoke out.

He said: 'This report is dynamite.

My first reaction was to laugh at the outrageous extent of the abuses. Then that
feeling turned to anger&it's embezzlement and fraud on a massive, massive
scale.' In another development, it emerged that MEPs had been warned in November
last year by the European Court of Auditors that it had grave concerns about
widespread abuse of MEP allowances.

British Labour, Tory and Liberal Democrat MEPs sought to distance themselves
from the fraud allegations. Some politicians said the problem lay with MEPs from
southern European nations, citing Italy and Greece.

The report catalogued alleged abuses of payments for MEP office staff between
late 2004 and early 2006. Most MEPs make the payments to assistants through
'service providers', who are supposed to be accountants, professionals or
companies that specialise in delivering administrative services.

But abuses of that system can see the whole allowance paid to a single
individual - meaning the employee's salary is twice as large as the £61,820 paid
to British Euro MPs. One MEP's assistant received a 'Christmas bonus' which was
19 times their monthly salary.

MEPs can also rake in vast sums for travel expenses, office costs and meals.
Many also use taxpayers' cash to swell private pensions.

Harald Rõmer, the secretary-general of the European Parliament, denied blocking
any corruption investigation.

Having said the report would not be handed to OLAF, he later backtracked and
said he would pass it on if he received a written request from the anti-fraud
agency. OLAF said it had asked for it on Monday.

Alarmingly the system of appointing a 'service provider' is among possible
schemes to be introduced at Westminster in the wake of the scandal over Tory MP
Derek Conway. He was barred from the Commons after it emerged he had paid his
son, Freddie, £50,000 of taxpayers' money as his researcher even though he was a
full-time student.

AnMEP convicted of benefit fraud was branded a hypocrite yesterday for accusing
immigrants of burdening taxpayers.

Ashley Mote, 71, was jailed for nine months last year for falsely claiming
£67,000 in benefits from Chichester Council in West Sussex In a pamphlet titled
J'Accuse, the politician - who was thrown out of UKIP but now sits as an
Independent - claims the benefits system 'pours money into foreign pockets'.

Nick Johnson, of the Institute of Community Cohesion, said: 'He talks about
people coming into the country and taking benefits that should be for people who
are born here. It's hypocritical as well as distasteful and unhelpful.' Comment
- Page 14

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               8 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 22, 2008 Friday

Political briefing: Lisbon debate rings hollow

BYLINE: Michael White

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 451 words


Gordon Brown carried warm words of European solidarity when he took a St
Pancras-to-Brussels awayday on the Eurostar yesterday. But one gift he could not
smuggle through customs was British ratification of the Lisbon reform treaty.
That bill still faces protracted wrangling at Westminster, debate which is a
hollow pretence, critics protest.

The lofty official line is that generous time is being allowed for parliamentary
debate on the EU (amendment) bill precisely because ministers rejected demands
for a referendum: none is needed when the rejected constitution has been
stripped of its grander pretensions.

The political reality is that ministers hope that "Eurobores" on both sides will
drive the debate into the ground, thereby achieving the goal of ratification
without tears. Four small states, plus France, have so far ratified, plus the
European parliament on Wednesday. Only Ireland is holding a referendum; its laws
require it. So far, ministerial worldliness seems to be working. Polls
repeatedly support the public vote David Cameron has demanded. But media
attention has been slight and all but hardcore Eurosceptics seem to be absent
from debate.

On the ground things feel differently too. The Labour MP Phyllis Starkey reports
that a parish referendum in her Milton Keynes constituency produced an
overwhelming no vote, but only on a 4.5% turnout which reflected Ukip's local
strength.

It cost the parish £1,000, which Starkey regrets, though she also hopes it will
make her Tory opponent look a bit obsessive and help her keep her seat.

Honest politicians can disagree about the significance of the reform treaty or
Tony Blair's prospects (slight?) of becoming president of Europe. Nick Clegg's
Lib Dems have havered and now decided to abstain on March 5, when the Tory
referendum amendment is finally voted on. In the Lords, the Hurds will cancel
out the Tebbits. The bill will pass.

What is shocking to the dwindling band of MPs who believe that parliamentary
procedures are there to protect minority views is that the detailed Commons
committee stage of the bill - five of the promised 12 days taken so far - is all
but meaningless. Why? Clever Geoff Hoon, Labour chief whip, has persuaded MPs to
vote to overrule their own standing orders. Instead of line-by-line debate which
explores changes to foreign policy procedures, EU cooperation on crime or
energy, at least half of each day is devoted to a "themed" discussion, with
debate on specific amendments tacked on later.

Does procedure matter? No one would be allowed to change the rules before a
football match or criminal trial. Yet younger MPs on both sides barely grasp
what powers they have given to Whitehall - let alone to Brussels.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               9 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            February 22, 2008 Friday

Britain - Benefit fraud MEP branded a hypocrite

LENGTH: 126 words


The Institute of Community Cohesion branded a right-wing Euro MP convicted of
benefit fraud a "hypocrite" on Thursday after accusing immigrants of burdening
British taxpayers.

Former UK Indepence Party (UKIP) MEP Ashley Mote released a 46-page pamphlet
entitled "J'Accuse" after he was jailed for nine months in September 2007 for
falsely claiming £67,000 in benefits while earning £4,000 a month.

It claimed that the benefits system which he had defrauded "pours money into
foreign pockets."

The institute's director of policy Nick Johnson called the pamphlet
"hypocritical," adding: "He should worry about his own actions rather than
misleading the country about other people."

Mr Mote sits as an independent after he was thrown out of UKIP over the charges.

LOAD-DATE: February 22, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               10 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 21, 2008 Thursday

Consultants and advisers are the only winners in the Northern Rock fiasco

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 100 words


SIR - It is intriguing to compare the Northern Rock pain with that of Black
Wednesday, and to realise that one of the strongest links between the two is the
European Union.

If John Major, Norman Lamont and David Cameron hadn't been so stupid as to try
to enter the ERM, and if Gordon Brown hadn't altered a well-proved regulatory
system for the banks, we wouldn't now be in the position of requiring approval
from the EU for managing the Northern Rock fiasco.

There could be no stronger case for governing ourselves and extricating
ourselves from the clutches of the EU.

Graham Booth MEP (Ukip)

Strasbourg

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 21, 2008 Thursday

Brussels hushes up Euro-MPs' 'criminal abuse' of expenses

BYLINE: Bruno Waterfield in Brussels

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 1

LENGTH: 573 words


A SECRET European Parliament report has uncovered "extensive, widespread and
criminal abuse'' by Euro-MPs of staff allowances worth almost pounds 100 million
a year.

Senior Euro-MPs and European Union officials have tried to hush up an internal
audit that found severe problems and endemic misuse of funds worth at least
pounds 98.4 million a year, more than pounds 125,000 for each of the 785
Euro-MPs.

Such is the extent of the abuse found in a sample group of 167 Euro-MPs that
"terrified'' parliamentary authorities have shrouded the report in secrecy and
security. Harald Rømer, the secretary-general of the European Assembly, was
asked late on Monday night by Hans-Gert Pöttering, its president, and a group of
senior Euro-MPs, to take measures to ensure that there was no "collateral
damage'' from the report.

"We want reform but we cannot make this report available to the public if we
want people to vote in the European elections next year,'' said a source close
to the decision.

Only Euro-MPs on the parliament's budget control committee are allowed to see
the report. To do so, they must apply to enter a "secret room'', protected by
biometric locks and security guards. They may not take notes and must sign a
confidentiality agreement. Last night, after an emergency meeting of senior
officials including Mr Rømer and Mr Pöttering, triggered by The Daily
Telegraph's investigation, a spokesman for the parliament denied a cover-up.

"The document is not secret. It is confidential,'' he said. "It can be read by
Euro-MPs on the budget control committee, in the secret room but not generally.
That is not the same as a secret document nobody can read.''

The Daily Telegraph has learned that the report does not name specific
individuals but has uncovered endemic abuse of staff allowances.

Many Euro-MPs are diverting the office payments, worth pounds 125,000 a year, to
"provid-

ers'', which are supposed to

be accountants, professionals or companies delivering administrative services.

But in many cases the whole allowance is paid to a single individual or
Euro-MP's member of staff, suspicious payments that are twice as large as the
annual pounds 61,820 salary paid to a British Euro-MP.

One source who read the report said: "The abuse is extensive. I felt the police
should be reading this. Public finances are being skimmed off and there is every
indication this is more widespread than anticipated.''

The internal auditor found that some Euro-MPs claiming the allowance had no
employees or just one member of staff. Another source who had also read the
report said: "Some service providers simply do not exist. Others are individuals
that work for or are dependent on the Euro-MP.''

Chris Davies, a British Liberal Democrat Euro-MP on the budget control
committee, has complained to the EU's anti-fraud watchdog, OLAF, over the
"disgraceful'' handling of the report. He wrote to Mr Rømer that the findings
"most definitely fall within OLAF's terms of reference'', adding: "They are so
serious that it should be assumed that criminal proceedings may follow.''

OLAF anti-fraud officials have demanded a copy of the report and have warned
that they expect the full co-operation of Euro-MPs and the parliamentary
authorities.

Jeffrey Titford, a UK Independence Party Euro-MP also on the budget control
committee, said: "We were elected to represent the interests of constituents,
not to cover up the illegal activities of our colleagues.''

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               12 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                           February 21, 2008 Thursday

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN LEADER PAGES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 691 words


He's "Blinker Brown", the Mail on Sunday headline said. "Tony Booth has put his
foot in it again by lifting the lid on the tensions between the former prime
minister and his successor." And indeed Mr Blair's father-in-law did seem to
have volunteered some titbits. Brown refused to let Cherie carpet his half of
the corridor linking No 10 and No 11, the story said.

And he humiliated Blair at John Smith's funeral. "When Tony arrived he found
himself in a pew behind a big pillar while Brown and the rest had prime
positions." All of this resulted, the paper said, from "an extraordinary
knockabout interview with the Mail on Sunday". Steph Booth, Tony's wife, tells
it differently. "A man turned up on our doorstep claiming to be from the British
Nuclear Test Veterans Association. He asked Tony if he would become their
patron. My husband let the man in, listened to his stories and, being
good-hearted, agreed to become involved. They then spent quite some time
chatting. Tony being sociable and not on his guard was, to put it mildly,
indiscreet. He even made a cup of tea and got out the chocolate biscuits. Turns
out the chap, whoever he was, must have been recording the conversation. It
appeared in last Sunday's Mail on Sunday." The chap, it transpires, was Alan
Rimmer, a freelance journalist who doubles as press officer for the British
Nuclear Test Veterans Association. He was scrupulous about making his dual roles
clear, says the paper. No he wasn't, say the Booths, who have passed the matter
to their lawyers. Of course, it was the Mail on Sunday that revealed Cherie's
controversial purchase of properties in Bristol and her entanglements with
Carole Caplin. When Tony opened his heart, it was bound to be to them.

Our firefighters have the toughest job. They risk life and limb when disaster
strikes. And sometimes, in their quest to prevent fires from starting, they
enter peoples homes to give advice and wise counsel. But this too, we learn, is
dangerous work. For those who request such visits are being told that they must
provide a "smoke-free environment" lest they damage the health of the attendant
fire crews. "Where the occupants are smokers, we ask that they refrain from
smoking both during the visit and for a period prior to the visit. We suggest a
period of one hour," an internal memorandum to London firefighters says.
Householders are also warned to "ventilate the dwelling before the visit to
clear any tobacco smoke". If the environment is not smoke-free, "the crew will
complete a risk assessment and consider whether the visit should proceed". And
if the house is just too smoky, "the crew manager will provide general fire
safety advice to the occupant and endeavour to make a new appointment at a time
when they are able to provide a smoke-free environment". All quite right, but
does it go far enough? Hose 'em all down, we say. Cure the habit at a stroke.

For all his advocacy of the peace process and powersharing, Martin McGuinness
can't help attacking British institutions. It's in the bloodstream. And now the
former IRA chief-of-staff turned peacemaker has a new target in his crosshairs:
EastEnders. Speaking at the opening of a British-Irish Council summit in Dublin,
the Sinn Fein chief told the conference that a soap like EastEnders encourages
young people to drink because it's set in a bar. It also goes out, he
complained, before the watershed. The McGuinness of yesteryear would have struck
a particular fear into all involved, but that was then. No going back to the old
ways.

Forward, onward, strike out - like Rustie Lee, the TV chef turned EastEnders
star who is now with Ukip and has her sights on the wacky end of the European
parliament. Should we warn them about her or her about them? Which is worse? Who
can say?

So did Gordon spend his 57th birthday having the "quiet family evening"
predicted by his spokesman? Or was he half-comatose, having been up at 4am
fleshing out his vision, as suggested yesterday by the parliamentary lobby?
David Cameron wished the PM a happy birthday as did the political journalists.
We merely wish him a nourishing night's sleep.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 21, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               13 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                                telegraph.co.uk

                    February 20, 2008 Wednesday 11:18 PM GMT

MEPs have outlived their usefulness

BYLINE: By Daniel Hannan

SECTION: BLOG

LENGTH: 353 words


The European Parliament has just voted through the European Constitution Lisbon
Treaty by a margin of 85 per cent to 15 per cent. After the vote, the Speaker
solemnly announced that the vote "gave expression to the will of the citizens of
Europe". I would have assumed he was joking except that a) he is German and b)
MEPs are forever coming out with this sort of humbug.

Too chicken for a referendum? Protesters at the European Parliament

The chamber, needless to say, burst into thunderous applause. Euro-MPs love to
be told that they speak for the people. It makes them feel better about the fact
that the people keep voting "No". It reassures them that they are not alone.

By the same token, they hate being reminded of what their electorates really
think. And they usually take out their frustration on the handful of
Euro-sceptics in the chamber.

I and a handful of MEPs marked the passage of the Bill by wearing tee-shirts
with the word "referendum". A group of UKIP members had an amusing variant on
the theme. They wore bright yellow tops with a picture of a hen, and the caption
Too chicken for a referendum?

You can imagine how this went down. Most MEPs, of course, are chicken. They
supported referendums until it became clear that they would lose them. Then,
overnight, they switched to making hilarious speeches about how each nation had
the sovereign right to ratify in its own way. The last thing they want is to be
physically reminded of what they had previously promised. We Euro-sceptics are
their bad conscience, which is why they so often lose their tempers and resort
to playground insults. (Today, the Speaker said that the parents of the
pro-referendum MEPs would be ashamed of them. A few weeks ago, the Liberal and
Socialist leaders called us Nazis).

Still, if nothing else, the episode demonstrates the utter illegitimacy of the
European Parliament. As Oliver Cromwell told an earlier parliament: "You have
sat here too long for any good you have been doing. Depart, I say, and let us
have done with you. In the name of God, go!"

LOAD-DATE: October 26, 2012

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Web Publication

JOURNAL-CODE: WEBDTB


                  Copyright 2008 Telegraph Media Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               14 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                           February 19, 2008 Tuesday
                                 First Edition

Pandora;
Armagh God! Another blow to the good family Paisley

BYLINE: OLIVER DUFF

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 781 words


Not three weeks since that political first, an elected member resigning to spend
less time with his family (D Conway), and we have a second incidence. Perhaps it
is a contagion.

Ian Paisley Junior, the youngest son of Dr "No" Ian, the First Minister of
Northern Ireland, yesterday tendered his resignation as a junior minister to his
father.

He is stepping down from the Executive because he hasn't done anything wrong -
but other people keep banging on about his links to the property developer
Seymour Sweeney (also a member of the Democratic Unionist Party). They allege
that he lobbied on Sweeney's behalf over a £50m government land deal in his
North Antrim constituency.

The last 10 months had "not been without controversy", said Paisley Jnr, 41, who
was beaten by the Bishop of Hereford in the gay rights group Stonewall's 2007
Bigot of the Year poll.

"Unfounded allegations, innuendo and attacks on me personally, followed by
ombudsman's reports that have cleared me.

"The criticism has been a distraction. I cannot express strongly enough that I
am not going because of some hidden or some revealed wrongdoing."

Unionism's royal family abides by the motto "the family that prays together
stays together". But it had a little local difficulty two years ago when Paisley
Snr's daughter, Rhonda, launched a legal action against him, the DUP and her
brother Ian Jnr, accusing them of sexual discrimination. Feck! It's enough to
drive a man to sup the Devil's buttermilk.

Cough up Campbell! Naomi's cheeky pull

Naomi Campbell has mellowed over the past year - although it's all relative, of
course; just remember the projectile mobile phones. So it is reassuring to see
that she still knows how to stick up two fingers at the Establishment as she
breezes moodily past.

The temperamental model was amidst the air-kissing throng at the Elle Style
Awards. Backstage in the event's press room, and despite the strict ban on
smoking inside the venue, one source nervously claims to have seen Campbell
chuffing away on a cigarette. "We were too scared to say anything."

While the pro-gasping lobby will applaud her defiance, a spokeswomaninsists my
mole's eyes must have been mistaken. "I didn't see her smoking," says the
publicist. "I don't think she does."

Strange. When at the Vaudeville Theatre in October, Pandora spotted a shivering
Campbell by the front door, sucking away on what I could swear was a crafty
cancer stick.

Amy's night for reflection

Amy Winehouse is out of rehab yet her behaviour remains eccentric. The singer,
right, enjoyed a night at the media hangout Shoreditch House at the weekend. I
am told she was bowling with Carl Barat, frontman with the Dirty Pretty Things,
while perched atop a pair of high heels - as you do.

"She rushed over and asked: 'Alright girls, who's got a mirror I can use?',"
says a fellow partygoer. "We couldn't help, so she marched into the toilets. I
followed. She asked a girl there for a mirror, even though there was one on the
wall. The last time I saw her she was heading for the men's. It was strange."

What could Winehouse have wanted? Her spokesman insists all is tickety-boo.
"Amy's doing pretty well. She is under medical supervision. When she's out she
is on the water."

Dead worried

An alarm (Second World War air raid siren?) has gone off at the UK Independence
Party. Several ill-sighted Telegraph readers called Ukip after seeing the
party's cheroot-waving leader Nigel Farage gurning on the paper's obituaries
page on Saturday. Turns out Farage has not taken one too many Strasbourg bar
crawls (Pandora passim). The obit was for a Ukip supporter. A case of mortal,
maybe, but not mort.

We were told that George (ne Gideon) Osborne was part of the "Jam Generation".
He smashed this cred yesterday by reminiscing on Radio 2 about A-ha's seminal
1985 hit "Take On Me". Osborne, then 14, was too busy dancing around his bedroom
pretending to be Morten Harket to notice the miners' strike.

Quiet Man pumps up the volume

Iain Duncan Smith once styled himself as the "quiet man" of British politics,
but regular users of his gymnasium claim he is anything but. The former
Conservative Party leader is a fixture in the Commons sweatshop, where he likes
to indulge in a bit of body sculpting.

One fitness enthusiast claims IDS is guilty of breaching that great unwritten
rule of workout etiquette: exercising quietly. "He does a lot of work on the
lateral pull-down machine," I'm told. "He obviously likes to whack on a fair
amount of weight, because I can hear him from right across the room. It's less
than a roar; more a sort of off-putting, Rafael Nadal-style grunt. I don't want
a set-to. If you could ask him to keep it down, I'd be grateful."

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               15 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                               Daily Star Sunday

                               February 17, 2008
                                U.K. 1st Edition

BROWN FLAGS UP EUROPE DAY ROW;
EU banner in Downing St

BYLINE: by STEPHEN PAUL

SECTION: NEWS TYPE=ARTICLE LINK=1; 2

LENGTH: 327 words


LAW changes have been pushed through by Gordon Brown so the Union Flag over
Downing Street can be pulled down and replaced with that of the European Union.

And fuming Tory MPs fear that our treasured flag could be replaced by the blue
banner with 12 gold stars as early as May 9.

The Daily Star Sunday has obtained evidence that the Prime Minister has already
tried unsuccessfully to replace the Union Flag over Downing Street with the EU
banner.

An application to Westminster City Council asked for "consent to fly the
European flag on May 9 2006".

It was made by Number 11 when Mr Brown was Chancellor.

The date - Europe Day - marks the anniversary of the creation of what is now the
EU in 1950.

But we can reveal that rule changes buried in Government consultation documents
last summer gave the EU flag the same status as a national flag.

And that means this Europe Day will be the first one where Downing Street will
NOT need to ask permission before flying the EU flag from its rooftops.

Eric Pickles, inset, Conservative Shadow Secretary of State for Local
Government, said: "We already knew that Gordon Brown had raised the white flag
of surrender to the EU Constitution.

"Now he has been exposed as trying to fly the EU flag over Downing Street.

"Every day under Labour, British identities and traditions are being eroded and
the front door opened to a European super-state."

Other parties are also furious. Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence
Party, said: "If anything illustrates this Government's commitment to driving
this country into a nation called Europe then this is it."

Anti-EU campaigner Neil Herron, who has fought an eight-year battle over the
right to sell fruit in British weight measures, said: "It's an absolute
disgrace.

"The EU is not the country nor is it the nation state.

"The flag should remain subordinate."

Old laws meant only national flags could be flown without planning permission
but as of last summer all flags can now be flown.

LOAD-DATE: February 19, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: A FLUTTER: How EU flag would look in Downing St

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               16 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                           The Sunday Times (London)

                               February 17, 2008

I'm Joan - I might as well just give up now, right?

BYLINE: Joan McAlpine

SECTION: FEATURES; Ecosse with News Review; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 1045 words


Until Jeremy Clarkson's intervention, I seldom gave my name a thought - the
Christian bit, that is. The surname, shared with the first king of a unified
Scotland, is, let's not wallow in false modesty here, pretty distinguished.

But Joan, that's a sort of etymological blank canvas - or so I believed. It is
classless, unfrilly and doesn't do diminutives terribly well... Joanies are a
rare breed.

That was until a fellow columnist singled out my name for the kind of jocular
abuse that has made him the most popular bloke in Britain. The fact that I sit
on top of him, so to speak, is of little comfort. (He is completely unaware of
this fact. We have never met, though I doubt that even living next door and
lending him cups of sugar would have spared me from his mockery).

"Names matter as much as looks," he wrote last week. "Boadicea was not called
Joan, and as a result was able to whip up a sufficient frenzy among her
followers that she defeated the Roman army and laid waste to Colchester. Joan of
Arc, on the other hand, was called Joan and got burnt at the stake. It's not for
nothing that God chose to call his only son Jesus rather than Roy or Nigel."

It cannot be that bad, surely. Am I the female equivalent of Nigel, the guy XTC
made a byword for boring in the song Making Plans for Nigel? The man who was,
the lyrics said, "happy to be spoken to". Has my image of myself all these years
as a bright, bolshie redhead been a sort of deception? It's not only Jeremy who
thinks names matter. Scientists in Edinburgh suggest individuals grow into the
brand their parents bestow on them at birth. So I should be a mild-mannered
loser. When I express mock outrage to a friend over dinner, he smirks knowingly.
Jeremy, I am told, has a point. Another who has read the piece (like every adult
boy of my acquaintance) responds to a text with the words "If only your name
wasn't Joan!".

I am beginning to feel cursed and can only think of the negatives. Where are all
the strong, sexy Joans? Baez was a wimp in an alice band. (Joni Mitchell was
prettier with better songs, but it's too late now to adopt her quirky spelling).

Armatrading wrote some good stuff - but is hardly what you call sassy. Besides,
her work is now in the standard repertoire of the worst sort of street busker.
As for Collins, with her Dynasty shoulder pads and UKIP allegiance, it cannot
get any worse. Or maybe it can. There's Derby's better half, a sweet old lady
tottering towards decrepitude with placid acceptance.

Joan is a victim of her own popularity. She was a top five American baby name in
the 1920s and 1930s. Those romper-suited prewar tots grew up to be the post war
forces brides, along with a lot of Marys and Dorises. (Now imagine being a
Doris, that's really tough.) They were the young mothers of the 1950s, that
decade of elevated domesticity when women were expected to head for the kitchen
after rivetting iron ships and hacking coal seams while their men fought in
Europe. The 1950s saw a huge propaganda campaign intent on refeminising these
girls to get them out of the workforce and into gingham aprons.

The first celebrity Joan I recall was the young mother in the cartoon Tom and
Jerry. You never saw what she looked like above her polka dot drindle skirt, but
sometimes a pretty, manicured hand put down a nice bowl of cream for the cat.
She was always cooing with hubby George in a very chaste manner - an
unthreatening, passive stereotype for her times. Great legs, though.

But a terrible tag doesn't have to mean failure. Overcoming it is like rising to
the top despite humble beginnings. Ronald Reagan was the most popular American
president of the last century, though he could be confused with a fast food
clown.

Eisenhower was also much loved, a natural leader and a winner on the field of
battle - despite being called Dwight. Lots of successful military men prove this
point - Winston and Horatio sound almost as effetely English as, say, Jeremy,
but it didn't stop them doing the business.

You can even be a sex god despite accidents of baptism. It helps to be black -
Marvin Gaye, Otis Redding, Sydney Poitier and Denzel Washington spring to mind.

But it's not essential. Marlon Brando looked good in leather (briefly) despite
being called Marlon. Not-very-normal Norman Mailer became the macho giant of
American literature.

So we shall overcome. The Joans of this world, that is. And we can start with
some positive selection. Boadicea committed suicide because, despite sacking
Colchester, her rebellion failed. She is rarely honoured unless you count a
rather pompous Victorian statue by the Thames and a tedious television film
starring Alex Kingston.

Joan of Arc, on the other hand, was betrayed but stood her ground to the end.
She convinced much of France the voices in her head were messages from the
Archangel Michael. Her bravery shamed the cautious French leadership and led to
liberation.

That mademoiselle had guts. In last year's presidential election her memory was
invoked by the conservative victor, Nicolas Sarkozy, and his defeated socialist
opponent, Segolene Royal. She transcended politics. "Joan is France!" said the
new president.

Just as Jeanne d'Arc defied gender, illiteracy and poverty to save her country,
many of her later namesakes spurn the path set out at their christening. The
funniest woman on the planet, Joan Rivers, belongs to that generation born in
the 1930s and married in the 1950s. But she is no simpering wifie.

"I hate housework," she once quipped. "You make the beds, you wash the dishes
and six months later you have to start all over again." Rivers is as sharp as
her plastic surgeon's knife. She's done us all proud.

Anyway, there are worse things than being called Joan. You could be a man called
Joan. But Miro, the great Barcelona-born artist, never let it get to him.
Perhaps it gave him the strength of character to survive the Spanish civil war
and a nervous breakdown. His giant, abstract murals are among the most
distinctive images of the modern age - the subconscious given form in glorious,
Mediterranean colour.

So let us not succumb to fatalism. It's all in the name you make for yourself.

Something tells me that life as Boadicea McAlpine would not necessarily have
been easier.

joan.mcalpine@sunday-times.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: March 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               17 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                         The Sunday Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 17, 2008 Sunday

A wintry blast greets Charles's 'warmist' speech

BYLINE: Christopher Booker

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 335 words


"SURELY THIS was just the moment in history for which the European Union was
created.'' So said Prince Charles in Brussels on Thursday, as he won a standing
ovation from MEPs for the most overtly pro-EU speech ever made by a British
Royal. To the evident delight of the Foreign Office officials present, he not
only unreservedly praised the European Commission and its President, Jose Manuel
Barroso, for all they are doing to "fight global warming'', but urged them to do
more.

The only MEP who stayed seated during the ovation was Nigel Farage, leader of
the UK Independence Party, who said afterwards: "As a loyal monarchist I was the
first to rise to my feet when the prince entered, because I was paying respect
to a member of the Royal Family. But he then spoke as a politician, making a
highly political speech with which I profoundly disagreed.''

As it happened, the timing of the prince's remarks was impeccable. They came
just when satellite data are confirming that the northern hemisphere (except for
western Europe) has been enduring its coldest winter for decades, with snow
cover at its greatest extent since 1966. January's global temperatures were
lower than their entire 20th-century average. Even as the prince expressed fears
that within seven years summer ice in the Arctic might be gone forever,
Antarctic summer ice was at its highest January level ever recorded, 30 per cent
above normal.

Amid the continuing absence of sunspot activity, many thoughtful climate
scientists now believe that the Earth may be entering on a period of marked
cooling, similar to that which in the 1970s prompted fears of a "new ice age''.

The "warmists'' are already trying to explain that this recent drop in global
temperatures is only "masking the underlying warming trend''. But if such
continued emissions of hot air are to have any practical effect, I am sure that
all those in China, Afghanistan, the USA and elsewhere who have recently been
suffering their worst blizzards in decades will be hugely grateful.

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               18 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                           February 16, 2008 Saturday

Obituary of Colin Merton Musical computer scientist of private means who lived
at the Savile Club and embraced the cause of Ukip

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1106 words


COLIN MERTON, who died on February 7 aged 81, was one of London clubland's few
resident members and a stalwart of the UK Independence Party (Ukip); in earlier
life he was a pioneer in the field of computer programming.

Merton was the presiding spirit of the Savile Club in Brook Street, Mayfair, for
as long as any of his fellow members could recall, and had made it his permanent
London home for the past quarter-century. Edwardian in manner and appearance -
he was tall, alert, quizzical, slightly stooping and beautifully dressed in
suits made for him in his youth - he brought to mind Spy cartoons of the age of
Saki and Beerbohm.

In a club which prides itself on sociability, Merton's courtesy, sprightly
conversation and interest in others, especially the young, made him universally
loved - though he was a stickler for the rule that there should be no
conversation at breakfast. He was the club's honorary librarian; an accomplished
and lifelong musician, he also enjoyed playing the piano in the Savile's ornate
19th-century ballroom, deploying a wide classical repertoire. On warm summer
evenings, his vigorous renditions of Chopin floated down Brook Street towards
Claridge's.

Merton's Right-wing politics differed markedly from those of much of the Savile
membership, but he endured opposing views at the members' table with good grace
and the twin advantages of advancing deafness and a condition which occasionally
caused him to nod off in mid-debate. Disenchanted with the Major government
after the Maastricht treaty, he was swift to join Ukip when it was founded by a
fellow Savilian, Alan Sked, in 1997.

He became one of the party's most dedicated foot-soldiers and conference
attenders, although he admitted sleeping through most of Robert Kilroy-Silk's
notorious speech, in October 2004, calling for the Conservative Party to be
"killed off''. Latterly, Merton had been a strong supporter of Nigel Farage -
not least, he told Farage, because the new Ukip leader's voice was so loud that
even Merton could hear what he said.

Merton was Ukip's parliamentary candidate for the Cities of London and
Westminster in three successive general elections. He cheerfully acknowledged no
hope of victory but was often found, in three-piece tweeds and rosette, politely
proffering his leaflets on the doorsteps of grim tower-block estates regarded by
other candidates as no-go areas. There his campaigning style was refreshingly
unconventional. On the doorstep he would ask: "Would you like a Ukip leaflet?''
Tenant: "Er... '' Merton, hand cupped round ear: "No? Oh well, can't say I blame
you. But good day to you none the less.''

The signatories of his nomination papers included a number of ferociously
Eurosceptic local publicans, perhaps attracted by his campaign pledge to
redirect Britain's EU subventions to pay for more police officers on the beat.
His best result was in the 2001 general election, when he won 464 votes; his
last campaign was in 2006, when he stood for Westminster council.

Colin Ralph Merton was born on December 4 1926 into a family of Jewish descent
whose fortune was made in the 19th-century metal industry in England and
Germany. He was the youngest of five sons of Sir Thomas Merton, who was
Professor of Spectroscopy at Oxford but left the university when still only 38
to work in his own private laboratories, where he invented, among other things,
a range-finding device for shooting down flying bombs, and the "Merton Nut''
used in the manufacture of diffraction gratings for spectrographs. A true
dilettante, Sir Thomas was also a noted collector of Flemish and Italian
Renaissance art, an interest he took up in support of the aspirations of Colin's
eldest brother John, who became a distinguished portrait painter.

Colin was educated at Eton and Trinity College, Cambridge, where he read
Chemistry. After military service at the end of the war, he qualified as a
chartered accountant in London. In 1947 he joined the Savile - each of the five
Merton brothers having been given membership of different clubs by their father.

In 1952 Merton began work in the still very new field of computer programming.
He joined the National Research Development Corporation, a government body set
up to channel funds into scientific projects with commercial potential, where he
came under the wing of Christopher Strachey, who was later the first Professor
of Computation at Oxford.

NRDC worked closely with Ferranti, the electrical engineering company which had
built (for Manchester University) Britain's first working computer. Merton was
one of the group which developed Ferranti's innovative Pegasus computer,
introduced in 1956 and first used to calculate stresses in the tail-plane of a
new vertical-take-off aircraft. Merton eventually moved over to work directly
for Ferranti on the commercialisation of Pegasus, for which there were high
hopes - but only 38 were sold before production ceased in 1962.

A founder member of the British Computer Society, Merton was very well regarded
by his peer group of early programmers. He was modest about his achievements,
but took some pride in being the first person ever to programme a computer to
play music in three-part harmony, which he was able to demonstrate many years
later to visitors to the Science Museum, where a Pegasus machine (No 25) was
preserved and re-activated once a month. In the mid-1960s Ferranti's computer
team, including Merton, was absorbed into a new venture which became, as ICL,
the sole British manufacturer in the field.

Like his father before him, however, Merton had been relieved by inheritance of
any pressing need to earn a living. In later years he returned to part-time
accountancy work for charities. He also continued, as a pastime, to write
computerised musical arrangements, and had recently completed an arrangement for
piano of the second movement of Beethoven's 7th symphony.

After separating from his wife, Merton lived for most of each week in a room at
the Savile piled high with books of musical theory and documents about the
perfidies of the European Union. Weekends were spent at his house at Cookham
Dean, Berkshire, where he kept a beautiful garden.

He also skied into his eighties, and was an inveterate traveller. Four years
ago, on a Savile trip to Egypt, he was run over in Cairo. After a period of
whizzing round the clubhouse in an electric wheelchair he made a full recovery,
but his deafness always made crossing busy roads hazardous.

He was fatally injured when he stepped in front of a milk float in Brook Street.

Colin Merton married, in 1963 (dissolved 1993), Friedrun Kühn; they had a son
and a daughter.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               19 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                           February 16, 2008 Saturday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Kids' crazy cuppa ban

SECTION: NEWS; 2

LENGTH: 88 words


SCHOOLS chiefs were blasted last night over loony plans to ban the serving of
hot tea and coffee to pupils under 16.

The School Food Trust - funded by the Government - is urging the ban because of
"safety risks".

But Mick Brookes, general secretary of the National Association of Head
Teachers, said: "I can understand the anxiety about young people eating
appropriate food, but this nannying really has to end." UK Independence Party
MEP Godfrey Bloom said the idea was "utterly stupid". He added: "Their pettiness
knows no bounds."

LOAD-DATE: February 17, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               20 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           February 16, 2008 Saturday
                                 3 Star Edition

'CUPPA'S TOO RISKY FOR KIDS'

BYLINE: BY JAKE MORRIS

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 144 words


SCHOOLS should not serve tea to pupils under 16 on health and safety grounds, a
watchdog warned yesterday.

The School Food Trust said hot tea and coffee have "minimal" nutritional
benefits and pose a risk.

The Trust - part of the Government drive to improve the food quality in schools
- said it did not want to ban them but will hold a consultation on voluntary
restriction code.

But Mick Brookes, of the National Association of Head Teachers, said: "This
nannying has to end."

And UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom called the idea "utterly stupid", adding: "Their
pettiness knows no bounds.".

Children's Minister Kevin Brennan backed the traditional brew, saying:
"Nutritional standards specifically allow tea and coffee. There is no intention
of banning them."

In a separate statement, the Trust called the issue "a storm in a tea cup",
adding: "The British cuppa is an institution."

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: ATTACK: Bloom

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               21 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                              Daily Mail (London)

                            February 15, 2008 Friday

Charles warns EU of climate 'doomsday'

SECTION: 1ST; Pg. 26

LENGTH: 299 words


PRINCE Charles has demanded urgent EU action to stop the 'doomsday clock of
climate change'.

In an impassioned speech to the Brussels parliament yesterday, he told MEPs it
was their clear duty to show a more 'determined' lead on the issue.

Standing in the heart of the parliament building, Charles claimed that the world
was 'sleepwalking its way to the edge of catastrophe'.

He said: 'The doomsday clock of climate change is ticking ever faster towards
midnight. The lives of billions of people depend on your response and none of us
will be forgiven by our children and grandchildren if we falter and fail.

'Determined and principled leadership has never been more needed. Surely, this
is just the moment in history for which the European Union was created.' The
prince has proposed a global coalition of public and private sectors and
non-governmental organisations as the only effective solution to the crisis.

'Climate change presents such a threat that, uniquely in history, it will surely
require the effort of every nation and every person to find and implement a
solution before it is too late,' he said.

The prince recalled his shock at hearing predictions that the north polar ice
cap could disappear in just seven years. He said: 'We are simply not reacting
quickly enough. We cannot be anything less than courageous and revolutionary in
our approach.' The speech was met with a standing ovation, but UK Independence
Party leader Nigel Farage MEP remained seated in protest at what he claimed was
a push by the prince for increased EU powers.

Anti-monarchist group Republic also attacked Charles's talk as 'extraordinary
pro-EU'.

But the speech was welcomed by Friends of the Earth, who said: 'The EU and other
governments must respond by placing climate change at the heart of
policy-making.'

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Papers


                   Copyright 2008 Associated Newspapers Ltd.
                              All Rights Reserved

                               22 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                            February 15, 2008 Friday

Climate doomsday clock is ticking, warns Prince European parliament told
billions of lives depend on swift response

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 462 words


THE Prince of Wales yesterday warned that the "doomsday clock of climate
change'' was ticking faster and the world faced a catastrophe without a
"revolutionary'' approach.

In his first speech to the European Parliament, the Prince delivered an
apocalyptic warning that time was running out unless there was concerted action.

"For me, the crux of the problem is - and I only pray I will be proven wrong -
that the doomsday clock of climate change is ticking ever faster towards
midnight,'' he said.

"We are simply not reacting quickly enough. We cannot be anything less than
courageous and revolutionary. If we are not, the result will be catastrophe for
all of us, but with the poorest in our world hit hardest of all.

"In this sense, it is surely comparable to war,'' he said.

"The lives of billions of people depend on your response and none of us will be
forgiven by our children and grandchildren if we falter and fail.

"I don't think there is a more urgent issue for any of us to be addressing at
work, at home, and indeed in every facet of our lives, than climate change.'' He
said the EU needed to show stronger leadership by uniting public and private
sectors and non-governmental organisations.

"Determined and principled leadership has never been more needed. Surely this is
just the moment in history for which the European Union was created,'' he said.
"Can that moment not be captured before it slips lifeless from our grasp?''

The Prince praised the EU for measures announced last month to try to cut
emissions of gases that cause climate change by 20 per cent by 2020. But he
warned Europe might have to go even further.

European industry required governments to set "principled long-term policies''
to step up the fight against global warming. "It is a task that calls for the
biggest public, private and NGO partnership ever seen,'' he said.

The first priority would be to try to save the world's tropical rainforests,
which he described as "global utilities'' that provide "essential public
services to humanity on a vast scale''. "We are destroying our planet's air
conditioning system,'' he said.

He was also terrified by the loss of biodiversity. "It has been compared to
burning down a library of precious knowledge without first reading the books.''

Tony Juniper, the director of Friends of the Earth and an adviser to the Prince,
said he had raised "issues of urgent importance that demand immediate political
action''.

The Prince of Wales received a standing ovation at the end of his speech, with
Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, the only MEP to remain in
his seat.

Mr Farage later said his protest was due to the Prince advocating "increased EU
powers at the very time the British government is denying us a referendum

on the Lisbon Treaty''.

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               23 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 15, 2008 Friday
                              Correction Appended

Comment & Debate: Diary

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: GUARDIAN COMMENT AND DEBATE PAGES ; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 668 words


"The UK Independence party believes unreservedly in our institutions - our
democratically elected House of Commons, our constitutional monarchy, our system
of common law and our House of Lords. These institutions deserve our respect . .
. they are part of what is British," their blurb says. And is there anything
that more symbolises Britain, particularly to foreigners, than HRH Prince
Charles? So why, after the prince's landmark speech to the European parliament
yesterday, did Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader, remain grim-faced in his seat,
hands quite still, as others applauded? Was it because, in urging action on
global warming, Prince Charles said: "This is just the moment in history for
which the European Union was created"? Love the monarchy; hate the EU. What a
quandary. What to do?

Make the best of it is probably the answer, even if the repercussions defy
logic. Some hours earlier, Ukip sought to use debating time usually set aside
for emergencies like the crisis in Sudan and massacres worldwide to discuss the
British government's refusal to hold a referendum on the European treaty. Quite
apart from the inappropriateness of the request, this entails asking the EU to
dictate to the elected UK government what it should do on a matter of domestic
policy. They're turning into federalists. Help! Help! Send for the nurse.

Send another one to Toronto, where Conrad Black and Barbara Amiel keep one of
their homes. This is her writing in the Canadian magazine Maclean's about life
sans Conrad, the solace to be found in their many pets and the tribulations of
their 70-year-old German "houseman" Werner. "Werner's kindness to every living
creature from frogs to me is taxed by my insistence on hanging a large portrait
of Joseph Goebbels by Toronto artist Tony Scherman in our living room," she
says. "The picture depicts evil brilliantly and I've renamed it after several
people in my husband's drama. Werner's late father happened to be the night
chauffeur for fellow Rhinelander Reichsminister Doktor Goebbels, and he has a
loathing of Nazism supplemented by a pained look whenever I play Wagner." An
exemplar employer then. Poor Werner.

With all the excitements over Northern Rock, party funding and the reshuffle of
senior jobs in the cabinet, one might expect a clamour for tickets to Labour's
spring conference in Birmingham. The evidence would say otherwise. The party has
hired a sales team to ring former delegates offering free admission to the
event, and pleading with them to turn up. How does the Diary know? Because among
those being called are members of the press. We're going already. We have to.

Bring forth a beverage for Cllr Ahmed Hussain of Tower Hamlets, east London, who
was said on Wednesday to be defecting from Respect to the Tories, a notion he
dismissed. "There are some people who want to jump on any rumour," a press
release explained. But by yesterday the deed was done, completing Cllr Hussain's
passage from the George Galloway wing of Respect to the Tories via the SWP, a
journey only equalled in length and complexity by the astronauts of Apollo 11.
He must be tired. Get him a drink.

And so it's official. Jeremy Hunt, the Tory member for Surrey South West, is the
most fanciable MP. Julie Kirkbride, the member for Bromsgrove, is number two.
Julia Goldsworthy, the Lib Dem from Falmouth and Cambourne, completes the top
three. According to Sky News, which conducted the survey, the Lib Dems are the
sexy party, as its MPs - including leader Nick Clegg - take half of the top 10
places. Labour's Angela Smith, the parliamentary private secretary to the prime
minister, is number seven. Shahid Malik, the minister for international
development, strides in at number 10. The rankings result from votes cast by MPs
themselves, but alas there could be no input from the late Alan Clark, the
ex-minister and lothario, who saw the Commons - indeed the south of England - as
so full of possibilities. Without him, it all seems just a little tame.

diary@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 15, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: February 18, 2008 Monday



CORRECTION: Julia Goldsworthy is the member of parliament for Falmouth and
Camborne, not Cambourne (Diary, page 35, February 15).

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                          The Daily Telegraph (LONDON)

                          February 13, 2008 Wednesday

Stifling of parliamentary debate on the anti-democratic Lisbon Treaty

SECTION: FEATURES; Letters to the Editor; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 128 words


SIR - As veterans of the "trench warfare'' in the House of Commons at the time
of the passage of the Maastricht Treaty, we welcome Philip Johnston's exposé of
the way in which debate on the Lisbon Treaty is being stifled (Comment, February
11).

That the 328 pages of the Consolidated Texts of the EU Treaties as Amended by
the Treaty of Lisbon were not available to MPs until 11.45 on the day that, at
10pm, they voted to give the treaty its Second Reading shows the Government's
contempt for Parliament and its ruthless determination to ratify this
anti-democratic treaty.

Christopher Gill

Hon President, Freedom Association

Roger Knapman MEP (Ukip)

Barry Legg

Hon Chairman, Bruges Group

Bob Spink MP (Cons)

Hon Chairman, Campaign for an Independent Britain

Bridgnorth, Shropshire

LOAD-DATE: February 13, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                     Copyright 2008 Telegraph Group Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                               February 11, 2008

The London mayoral election explained

LENGTH: 267 words



HIGHLIGHT: There are 25 assembly seats up for grabs in the May elections


May 1 will see the third round of assembly elections since the Greater London
Authority was established by an act of parliament in 1999.

The GLA is effectively a tier of regional government consisting of an elected
mayor and the London assembly. Elections for the mayor and the assembly are held
at the same time every four years.

The London assembly is designed to scrutinise the mayor's work. Its ultimate
sanction is the power to block the mayor's budget by a two-thirds majority.

There are 25 assembly seats up for grabs. For the London assembly elections,
London is divided into 14 constituencies, comprising of up to four London
boroughs.

Members are elected to these through the traditional first-past-the-post system
(the candidate with the most votes wins the seat).

A further 11 candidates are elected to London-wide seats using a list system.

The electorate can cast two votes for the assembly: one expressing their
constituency choice and one for the London-wide top-up list.

To stand for the London assembly, candidates must be at least 18 and have lived,
worked or rented or owned property in London in the last 12 months.

The last two sets of elections saw the following political composition in the
assembly:

2004: Conservatives (9), Labour (7) Liberal Democrats (5), Green party (2), UK
Independence party - now One London (2).

2000: Conservatives (9), Labour (9), Liberal Democrats (4), Green party (3)

In the election for mayor, the electorate also has two votes ? first and second
choice. There is no requirement to cast a second vote but it will not harm the
chances of the first choice candidate.

LOAD-DATE: February 11, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2008  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               26 of 32 DOCUMENTS



                            The Independent (London)

                            February 8, 2008 Friday
                                 First Edition

I cheered when the Russians said they did not want to hear Clooney's lecture on
Darfur

BYLINE: DOMINIC LAWSON

SECTION: COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 1117 words


Something quite remarkable has happened. A group of adults, apparently of sound
mind, has told George Clooney that it does not want to see - or hear - from him.
That group was nothing less than the United Nations.

Clooney is the latest of the UN's showbusiness 'ambassadors' and, in that
capacity, had recently travelled to Darfur, witnessing at first-hand the
conditions which - according to many observers - make some sort of UN
peacekeeping force essential.

We are told that this was the message which the great actor was going to give to
the UN's delegates in New York. Certainly the press had descended en masse to
hear Clooney lecture what is invariably called "the international community" on
its duty; but then, just as the lights were about to go on, instead of saying
'Action!' - someone pulled the plug.

More precisely, a group of national delegates - widely suspected to be led by
Russia and France - declared that they had no wish to be lectured on their
political responsibilities by some American actor. Or, as the Russian
spokeswoman put it: "this is not an appropriate forum for Mr Clooney to attend".
Maria Zakharova added - perhaps just in case anyone should think her country was
declaring war on Hollywood: "Russia is fully supportive of the actions of
celebrities in stressing the UN's role". Angelina Jolie will doubtless be
greatly relieved to hear that, not to mention Geri Halliwell.

Now we all know that Russia - and indeed France - conducts its foreign policy
with a studied and remorseless cynicism. We also know that the UN has - despite
half a dozen resolutions - not exactly distinguished itself in its dealings with
Sudan. I suppose we should all be very angry that George Clooney was prevented
from lecturing the General Assembly.

Yet my immediate reaction on hearing of this snub was to give a little cheer. At
last a group of people have turned around and said to one of the growing band of
actors, rock stars and models who think the world must listen to their profound
thoughts (on everything from climate change to nuclear proliferation): we really
don't need to hear from you. Clooney might be right and the Russians might be
wrong, but something rare and wonderful has happened when showbusiness is put in
its place (which is not necessarily the General Assembly of the United Nations).

Perhaps such a rebuff could only have happened at the hands of an emissary of Mr
Putin's government, with its bullish - not to say thuggish - contempt for
everything the West holds dear (and nothing is held more dear than the movie
business). It's certainly hard to imagine any British or American politician
treating showbiz royalty with such lack of consideration.

In this country Gordon Brown and David Cameron frantically compete for the
sympathy and endorsement of those we term "celebrities". Bob Geldof - who is,
admittedly, a substantial figure outside the recording studio - must have lost
count of the times he has been begged to join one or other of our main political
parties. Come to think of it, it seems most unlikely that either the Liberal
Democrats or UKIP would have failed to ask for his blessing, too.

In America there is a completely incestuous relationship between Hollywood and
politics. For example, the stars of The West Wing are now regularly asked, by
apparently serious newspapers, to give their views on the various "real"
Presidential candidates. I suppose there is nothing at all new in this. For
almost 40 years the president of the Motion Picture Association of America - in
other words "Mr Hollywood" - was Jack Valenti. Before arriving in Hollywood Mr
Valenti had been fixer-in-chief for the Democrat President Lyndon Johnson. There
is some evidence to suggest that, invaluable as Johnson found Valenti in the
White House, he was even more useful on Sunset Boulevard.

Los Angeles, like California as a whole, is traditionally seen as fertile
territory for the Democrats, so the scramble by Hillary Clinton and Barack Obama
for the endorsements from Hollywood have taken on a peculiar intensity and
ferocity. In a way, they are absolutely right to care so much. Film stars are
trusted in a way that no politicians are - or indeed no other group in society.
Why they are thought to be such paragons is a mystery to me. Such evidence as we
have suggests that most of Hollywood's greatest names are (and always have been)
either crazed or on drugs - and probably both.

Naturally, we must exclude the ineffably clean-cut George Clooney from these
strictures. Mr Clooney makes a great deal of money appearing in advertisements
for Martini and Budweiser, but these are legal substances without which the
American economy could very easily grind to a halt. It is obviously a public
duty to promote these brands and it in no way detracts from Mr Clooney's very
obvious sincerity as a man interested only in his art and the truth.

Jack Valenti always argued that there was nothing strange in the marriage of
politics and showbusiness: he was fond of saying that "Politicians and movie
stars spring from the same DNA". He had a point. Actors, if they are any good,
have a gift for making an audience believe whatever they want them to believe.
The greatest actors also have the ability to draw on the emotions of the
audience to create an extraordinary bond of intimacy. There can be few
politicians who do not covet those skills - and a very few, such as Tony Blair,
who actually possess them in some small way.

There was, of course, the extraordinary instance of Ronald Reagan, the most
vivid and triumphant example of Jack Valenti's dictum. Reagan, particularly in
this country, is frequently mocked as an illustration of the embarrassing
consequences of actors meddling in politics: it is said that he was just an
empty vessel who would simply emote whatever lines he was given to say, without
really understanding the true significance of any of it.

Actually Reagan was a much greater politician than he was an actor; and far from
being a tabula rasa awaiting the imprint of others' ideas, he was a man of the
most rigid principles. He didn't just act the part of a person with
passionately-held views. Those really were his opinions. So when he referred to
the Soviet Union as "an evil empire" he shocked some of his political advisors,
who rather wished he could have been a little less sincere.

Perhaps George Clooney - despite his evident distaste for everything that Ronald
Reagan stood for - might have emulated the tone of the Fortieth President, when
dealing with the Russians' attack on him last week, instead of just joking that
"I think I've lost my touch". Whatever else, it would have been a wonderful
piece of theatre.

d.lawson@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 8, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper

JOURNAL-CODE: IA


                      Copyright 2008 Independent Print Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved

                               27 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                               The Times (London)

                            February 4, 2008, Monday

Ukip 'will not split eurosceptic vote'

SECTION: HOME NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 96 words


The UK Independence Party will not stand candidates against Eurosceptics from
the Conservatives or Labour in the next general election, its leader Nigel
Farage said yesterday.

Mr Farage said that Ukip would put what it saw as the national interest ahead of
party advantage by standing aside in constituencies where it risked splitting
the eurosceptic vote.

He said he expected Ukip to achieve its highest share of the vote in next year's
elections to the European Parliament, when it will campaign on the back of the
Government's refusal to grant a referendum on the Lisbon Treaty.

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                    Copyright 2008 Times Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               28 of 32 DOCUMENTS

                                   The People

                            February 3, 2008, Sunday

9 RAPES ON 3 BOYS: ROYAL BUTLER HELD;
 EXCLUSIVE QUIZ OVER ATTACKS ON BOYS 1,000S OF IMAGES PROBED

BYLINE: BY JAMES MILLBANK

SECTION: 2 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 264 words

HIGHLIGHT: TRUST: Queen's aide Kidd


A FORMER butler to the Queen was in jail last night after being charged with
raping three young boys.

Paul Kidd, 54 - who knew Princess Diana well - allegedly carried out some of the
sex attacks while rubbing shoulders with Royals as a trusted Palace servant.

He was arrested in London after a threemonth probe and taken for questioning at
Ashton-Under-Lyne police station, Manchester.

Kidd faces allegations of raping and molesting the boys, aged 11 to 16, and
photographing some of them.

The former flunky, who worked for the Royals between 1975 and 1984, was remanded
in custody by Tameside magistrates yesterday.

Kidd, of Stalybridge, Cheshire, faces 18 charges - nine of rape, four of gross
indecency and five of sexual assault. Police acted after a man of 41 recognised
Kidd from the media and alleged that he was molested by him in 1981.

Officers have also seized a computer containing more than 1,000 images of child
porn.

A senior police source said last night: "This man was a senior royal butler.

"The alleged offences go back three decades to when he was working for the
Queen. Police may want to question members of the royal household."

Kidd was the Queen's personal butler for four years from 1976 and was then
senior footman to the Queen Mother. He knew Di's butler Paul Burrell.

Kidd has been seeking £2,000 to £4,000 a time for speaking engagements and stood
as a candidate for the UK Independence Party at last year's local elections.

Do you know Paul Kidd?

Call us on 0207 293 3201

james.millbank@ people.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 4, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                            Copyright 2008 MGN Ltd.

                               29 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            February 1, 2008 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

KILL JOYS LAUNCH PATRIOT MISSILE;
Kids taught: You can't love Britain

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 318 words


CHILDREN are being taught that it is WRONG to be proud of Britain.

Education experts say patriotic lessons about our history should be banned in
schools because of Britain's "morally corrupt" past.

And most teachers agree, with only 9% saying schools should promote patriotism.

But critics hit back last night, insisting that ALL Brits should be proud of
their heritage.

The bizarre "no patriotism" ruling came in a study by the University of London's
Institute of Education.

Researchers Michael Hand and Jo Pearce said Britain should not be "loved"
because it was guilty of dodgy acts in the past.

Dr Hand said: "Gordon Brown and David Cameron have both called for a history
curriculum that fosters loyalty to Britain.

"But the case for promoting patriotism in schools is weak.

Patriotism is love of one's country, but are countries appropriate objects of
love? Loving things can be bad for us when the things we love are morally
corrupt.

"Since all national histories are at best morally ambiguous, it's an open
question whether citizens should love their countries." The researchers also
questioned more than 300 teachers in London.

Three-quarters said they felt they should alert their pupils to the "dangers" of
patriotism, while just 9% thought schools should promote it.

But patriots hit back. Nigel Farage, leader of political party UKIP, said: "Who
are these people who hate Britain? They should be kept well away from our
children. We should be proud of our heritage." And London cabbie Michael
Winterson, 58, said: "I brought my kids up to love Queen and country. If schools
did more of that rather than filling their heads with PC rubbish, the country
would be a better place.

"Britishness isn't about wars 300 years ago, it's about respecting each other.
If there's shame in that, then I'm ashamed to be British."

.IN yesterday's phone vote, 94% of our readers said the PC Brigade had taken
over our schools.

LOAD-DATE: February 2, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO GOOD REASONS: Luscious Lucy. Oh, and your Daily Star.
Above, Havant show the FA Cup is the best

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               30 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                   Daily Star

                            February 1, 2008 Friday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

KILL JOYS LAUNCH PATRIOT MISSILE;
Kids taught: You can't love Britain

BYLINE: by TOM SAVAGE

SECTION: NEWS; 19

LENGTH: 318 words


CHILDREN are being taught that it is WRONG to be proud of Britain.

Education experts say patriotic lessons about our history should be banned in
schools because of Britain's "morally corrupt" past.

And most teachers agree, with only 9% saying schools should promote patriotism.

But critics hit back last night, insisting that ALL Brits should be proud of
their heritage.

The bizarre "no patriotism" ruling came in a study by the University of London's
Institute of Education.

Researchers Michael Hand and Jo Pearce said Britain should not be "loved"
because it was guilty of dodgy acts in the past.

Dr Hand said: "Gordon Brown and David Cameron have both called for a history
curriculum that fosters loyalty to Britain.

"But the case for promoting patriotism in schools is weak.

Patriotism is love of one's country, but are countries appropriate objects of
love? Loving things can be bad for us when the things we love are morally
corrupt.

"Since all national histories are at best morally ambiguous, it's an open
question whether citizens should love their countries." The researchers also
questioned more than 300 teachers in London.

Three-quarters said they felt they should alert their pupils to the "dangers" of
patriotism, while just 9% thought schools should promote it.

But patriots hit back. Nigel Farage, leader of political party UKIP, said: "Who
are these people who hate Britain? They should be kept well away from our
children. We should be proud of our heritage." And London cabbie Michael
Winterson, 58, said: "I brought my kids up to love Queen and country. If schools
did more of that rather than filling their heads with PC rubbish, the country
would be a better place.

"Britishness isn't about wars 300 years ago, it's about respecting each other.
If there's shame in that, then I'm ashamed to be British."

.IN yesterday's phone vote, 94% of our readers said the PC Brigade had taken
over our schools.

LOAD-DATE: February 16, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: TWO GOOD REASONS: Luscious Lucy. Oh, and your Daily Star.
Above, Havant show the FA Cup is the best

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2008 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               31 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                            February 1, 2008 Friday

People

BYLINE: Stephen Bates

SECTION: GUARDIAN HOME PAGES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 381 words


Lord Triesman , pictured, once the Red Dave of Essex University's students'
union, but now parliamentary under-secretary at the Department for Innovation,
Universities and Skills, was recently asked by his alma mater for memories of
the student protests of 1968, during which he was suspended for breaking up a
meeting addressed by a scientist from Porton Down. Alas, government commitments
prevented him attending a seminar on Essex Then and Now, but he did send an
encouraging message. "I am still strongly influenced by the spirit of '68 and am
given to making 'situationist' comments as a government minister in the House of
Lords," he assured the comrades, doubtless wryly - situationism of course being
the ethical view that morality is determined by surrounding circumstances rather
than personal qualities. In proof he sent a quote from a Lords debate in 2006 in
which he described cluster munitions as legitimate weapons if used in accordance
with humanitarian law. O Tempora! O Mores! as Essex alumnae will surely be
thinking.

Who'd have thought it? A survey by UTalkMarketing has found Jamie Oliver is the
celebrity most likely to persuade consumers to buy a product, followed at some
distance by Gary Lineker . Astonishingly, Victoria Beckham and Wayne Rooney are
those least likely to persuade us to buy whatever they're selling.

A second Tory politician in three days has found himself in trouble. Daniel
Hannan , MEP for South East England and a Daily Telegraph columnist, seems to
have offended even his own colleagues in the European parliament by comparing
its president, Hans-Gert Pottering , who used to lead the conservative grouping
to which the Tories supposedly belong, to Adolf Hitler . This was apparently
because of Pottering's attempt to tighten rules to prevent filibustering by the
likes of the UK Independence party. Hannan has apologised but the conservatives
still want him expelled from their faction.

The show's title - Notes in Heels - has a distinctly retro feel, but the
performance at the Duchess theatre in London in April will showcase prominent
American female composers whose work is never usually heard in the West End,
including Georgia Stitt and Zina Goldrich - names beyond even the capacity of PG
Wodehouse to invent.

stephen.bates@guardian.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                   Copyright 2008 Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All Rights Reserved

                               32 of 32 DOCUMENTS


                                  Morning Star

                            February 1, 2008 Friday

Britain - Tory's Hitler remark provokes outrage in Brussels

LENGTH: 185 words


Tory MEP Daniel Hannan caused uproar in the European Parliament on Thursday when
he linked its German president with Adolf Hitler.

South East England MEP Mr Hannan told the chamber during voting in Brussels that
only his personal respect for Hans-Gert Poettering prevented him from comparing
a European Parliament measure to tighten procedural rules with Hitler's law of
1933 which suspended parts of the German constitution and gave him total power.

Mr Poettering was about to be given extra powers by MEPs to curb disruptions in
the chamber which began last week when UK Independence Party MEPs and some
Conservatives pressed for roll-call votes on every issue.

Mr Hannan then complained about the stifling of free expression.

He likened the issue to the Enabling Act in 1933 that gave Hitler unlimited
power.

Joseph Daul, the leader of the centre-right EPP group to which Tory MEPs are
affiliated, immediately disassociated his group from the remarks and threatened
to expel Mr Hannan.

The parliament then voted to give the president the right to overrule MEPs'
tactics designed to disrupt the business of the house.

LOAD-DATE: February 1, 2008

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


               Copyright 2008 People's Press Printing Society Ltd
                              All Rights Reserved
