
                               1 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 31, 2005

EU £1/2M BOX ROW

BYLINE: Michael Lea

LENGTH: 103 words


EU chiefs have spent £575,000 on plastic boxes to ferry paperwork from Brussels
to Strasbourg once a month.

Some 4,000 new trunks costing £91 each were bought to replace £38 metal chests.

They are driven the 530-mile round trip between the European Parliament's two
HQs just 11 times a year.

Officials still have to KEEP old trunks for MEPs on other trips.

UKIP MEP Mike Nattrass said: "This is typical EU inefficiency, which as usual is
costing taxpayers even more."

A spokesman for the parliament insisted the new trunks are stronger, easier to
handle and will last at least ten years.


LOAD-DATE: November 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               2 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 30, 2005, Sunday

MEP in wage row will refund pounds 21,000

BYLINE: BY DANIEL FOGGO

SECTION: News; Pg. 015

LENGTH: 250 words

A BRITISH MEP who claimed pounds 36,000 for a researcher he had agreed to pay
just pounds 6,000 has been forced to refund the extra cash after his actions
were revealed in The Sunday Telegraph.

Last week, this newspaper showed that the UK Independence Party member Tom Wise
has been claiming pounds 3,000 per month from the EU's payments office for
Lindsay Jenkins, even though he was paying her only a fraction of that. The EU
is now investigating, while Mr Wise has said that he will reimburse the
parliament.

Last night he admitted breaching the rules which state that payments to MEPs'
assistants must be made directly to the employees or a third-party "service
provider", not to members themselves.

There was further confusion after The Sunday Telegraph was told by EU sources
that Mr Wise did not use his own name as a service provider, and the money was
paid to an account in the name of Stags.

Mr Wise has told UKIP bosses that he invoiced for the money using the term "Tom
Wise trading as Stags".

Party sources said last night that although Mr Wise's agreement with Ms Jenkins
was to pay her pounds 500 per month, he also gave her an additional pounds 4,000
over the past year for extra work done.

Another payment of pounds 5,000 was channelled to her account from his but this
was for another matter unnconnected to work done for him.

The total discrepancy between what he claimed "in her name" and the amount he
paid to her is pounds 21,000, the sources indicated.

LOAD-DATE: October 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               3 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 22, 2005, Saturday

Policy? David Cameron has lots. He's a new Neo-Con

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: Home news; 6

LENGTH: 1836 words


David Aaronovitch delves deep into the columns, speeches and mutterings of the
man who calls himself a media tart and discovers what the candidate might bring
to Downing Street.

THE ascent of David Cameron has been so sudden that almost no one remembers
having seen the shiny craft when it was being assembled back on the ground. Now
people want to know, what is it made of? How fast can it go? What's its mission?
And who's driving it?

It isn't surprising that two things have happened since Cameron's discovery.

First, that many have doubted whether, in any real sense, he exists at all. And,
second, that various competing and incompatible groups should be claiming that
he most certainly does exist and that he is, emphatically, one of their own. So
he is variously the heir to Clarkeism, he is the Mark III Eurosceptic, he is
Thatcher's grandson, he is Disraeli's direct descendant.

But what does he say? Plenty, for Cameron is, in his own often repeated phrase,
something of a "media tart". Since becoming the MP for the semi-rural
semi-paradise of Witney he has written regularly for his local newspaper, the
Oxford Journal, for Guardian Unlimited, the online presence of the newspaper,
and for various parish publications, as well as making many speeches. So it's
all there if, in the words of Stella Gibbons's Mr Mybug, "You cah to dig".

His utterances show his passage from freshman MP to being a contender, it's just
that in his case the timescale is truncated. Just over two years ago, for
example, we find him -courtesy of some of his more broad-minded constituents -
worrying about the new Sexual Offences Bill.

"Flashing," he writes, "is a disgusting activity which should be a crime...But
my constituents, who happen to be naturists, pointed out -again, quite rightly -
that the Bill had been badly drawn up and would criminalise the perfectly
harmless activity of taking your clothes off on a beach or in a park that is
specifically designed for that purpose." As often happens with Cameron, you
understand the sentiment, if not the detail. Which beach was "specifically
designed" for naturism?

A few months later he is concerned about horses being shipped abroad to make
food for foreigners, and he links it to what he calls the chaos of our
immigration system. "It's odd," he writes, "that while the Government has lost
all control of who comes into Britain, they are considering allowing horses out
of Britain to be eaten on the Continent." Surely one of the least odd political
phenomena ever to be observed.

Country concerns loom large for the early Cameron, making his blood boil and
causing him to barrack anti-hunting MPs in the chamber (a lapse which, with
characteristic good grace, he laments), but they fade rapidly away after the
passage of the anti-hunting legislation. One of his political virtues, it seems,
is not to chase after lost causes. His blood is self-cooling.

His style also evolves. Sixteen months ago it was, "Whoops, reshuffled again".

Some weeks and an unremarked re-reshuffle later, it was: "This week I started a
new job. Michael Howard asked me to become his 'Head of Policy Co-ordination'
between now and the general election...Gulp. Daunting stuff." This
Woosterishness is easily recognised, I think, as Johnsonian self-parody,
committed at the height of Boris's popularity. It has disappeared now.

Less easy to erase is Cameron's liking for Socratic monologue. With the "whoops"
reshuffle, Cameron gets to thinking about what he's going to do. "While my new
job may be a 'shadowy' one," he writes, "there will be lots of questions to ask.
Why is Parliament so bad at scrutinising laws from Europe? Why has the
Government become so big and wasteful? Why do ministers announce policies on the
BBC and not in Parliament? Why do ministers fail to answer questions properly?
How can the Government in Parliament justify not allowing a referendum on the
European constitution? Frankly, I'm looking forward to it." To what? Asking
hundreds of questions and never answering any of them?

Sometimes there is a response to his own query. Try this, from around the same
time. "Does this sound familiar? You're fed up with EU interference in everyday
life.

You're worried that burdens from Brussels will make British business
uncompetitive. You wonder why the EU has a flag, an anthem, a currency -and now
wants a constitution and a president. So you wonder: should I vote UKIP?" The
answer turns out to be, "no".

None of this is surprising. A tyro MP, constantly employed as a shadow
spokes-thing and subject to party discipline, is going to be careful about what
he says. But almost as soon as the 2005 election is over, and he's free to take
up positions on his own behalf, Cameron starts to motor. Some of his definite
positions, however, have been adopted a long time ago.

In 2003 he asks, "Is it time for national identity cards to deal with the
problems of illegal immigration, crime and foreign visitors abusing our NHS? My
answer is 'no'. " Cameron is on the record as being in favour of a mostly
elected House of Lords, he wants membership of select committees to be decided
by a vote of backbenchers, not by the whips, and -most radical of all -he
supports looking at fixed-term parliaments.

That constitutes substance, as far as I can see. His less laissez-faire side
demands that learning English should be compulsory for citizenship applicants,
and would like to "ensure that the tax and benefits system encourages couples to
get together and stay together...". Though given how losing vast sums through
divorce fails to deter millions from splitting up, it's hard to see what
financial incentives would keep them together. And Cameron, a modern man,
understands that there is another problem, and adds the caveat: "But we should
support all families -for example, through childcare -because what matters most
is that children are brought up in stable, loving homes."

Cameron, by his own hand, is a big supporter of public services. You can even
find him boasting of how he lobbied successfully for a traffic warden for
Woodstock (that's the town in Oxfordshire, not the drug-ridden American concert
that took place long before Cameron became an MP), and arguing in a speech last
month that Conservatives "must understand, and sincerely believe (my italics),
that the money we spend on public services is a necessary good, not a
regrettable evil".

In his view the mistake that the Tories made was always seeming to want to help
the middle classes -"those who already have advantages" -to buy their way out of
public provision.

The Boy David wants to continue the expansion of higher education, not the
contraction back to "proper university courses" so beloved of many on the Right
and not a few on the Left. To fund that expansion he wants the Conservatives to
support, and even extend, variable top-up fees. Public service spending comes
before any tax-cutting imperative: "We will never get good schools,
universities, hospitals, transport or police on the cheap." The key is reform.
Reform in the shape of co-payment, where Cameron endorses road pricing as a way
to deal with congestion, and in "good ideas like Foundation Hospitals and City
Academies", which Labour failed to press ahead with because of their own party's
conservatism.

There is also the strong suggestion that Cameron would want to develop a
proposal for education vouchers in the state system. He also, remarkable for a
Tory, advocates making police officers more sackable and allowing the Mayor of
London to appoint the Metropolitan Police commissioner. No substance?

But if you want to track the Cameronian journey, and understand that he is, if
anything, an anti-populist, you have only to look at his views on Iraq. In
February 2003 he opened his article for the Oxford Journal in the inevitable
way: "Has the case for war fully been made? My answer is 'not yet'. I have
received dozens of letters and e-mails from constituents -with some 60 against
war and just a handful in favour. But our job as MPs is not just to listen to
our constituents; it is to question the Government -and to make our own
judgment."

By August this year, and with the Iraq war less popular than ever, Cameron made
a speech to the Foreign Policy Centre. Before the war started, he said: "I had
my concerns about the scale of what is being attempted." He preferred deterrence
to pre-emption, multilateralism to unilateral action, and was worried about the
chances of success.

Then comes a passage of analysis about the global threat that might have been
written by Paul Wolfowitz or Tony Blair, rather than Douglas Hurd or Ken Clarke.

"Jihadism," Cameron said, "feeds into the bewilderment, alienation and lack of
progress felt by many in the Muslim world. The corruption of many states in the
Middle East. The lack of democracy. The concentration of power in the hands of
elites whose lifestyles are noticeably un-Islamic." In other words, until those
regimes are democratised, we will always be at risk from fundamentalism. So, we
in Britain, "share a responsibility...to promote change, reform and
liberalisation".

Cameron, in his own write, is a reforming Neo-Con. Here's a passage worth
quoting to anyone who says they don't know who he is. "Just as there were
figures in the 1930s who misunderstood the totalitarian wickedness of Nazism and
argued that Hitler had a rational set of limited political demands, so there are
people today who try to explain jihadist violence with reference to a limited
set of political goals. If only, some argue, we withdrew from Iraq, or Israel
made massive concessions, then we would assuage jihadist anger. That
argument...is as limited as the belief in the 1930s that, by allowing Germany to
remilitarise the Rhineland or take over the Sudetenland, we would satisfy Nazi
ambitions. A willingness to cede ground and duck confrontation is interpreted as
fatal weakness."

Speech, August 24, 2005, to the Foreign Policy Centre. There, for those who want
it, is the beef.

Matthew Parris, page 21

Alice Miles, page 36

www.timesonline.co.uk/politics -Political news and comment

DAVE'S WISDOM:

"Milton Keynes looked almost inviting." - The Oxford Journal, September 24, 2003

"A week into the job and I've already seen more ceilings than Zsa Zsa Gabor and
hit more floors than Frank Bruno." - Guardian, March 25, 2004

"Do we really want to live in a country where police can ask, 'where are your
papers?' and arrest you if you are not carrying them?" - Printed in the Oxford
Journal, August 27, 2003

"I went from Jeremy Vine on Radio 2 to Andrew Neil on BBC One via Sky News, BBC
News 24, Central Television, Radio 5 Live and lastly, a debut (and completely
terrifying) appearance on Question Time...Apologies for this over exposure. You
will all be pleased to hear that I shall now sink back into obscurity." -
Article for the Parish Pump, October 12/10/2004.


LOAD-DATE: October 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 21, 2005, Friday

I'M SORRY, DARLING, BUT LADIES SHOULD BE BANNED

BYLINE: JEMIMA LEWIS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 796 words


If this is political correctness, I'm all for it. Councillors at Hull City are
in a huff after being told not to use the word 'lady'. New guidelines from the
council's Corporate Equalities Unit suggest that persons of a feminine
persuasion should be referred to simply as women: not ladies, girls or lasses.
Neither should they be addressed with such terms of endearment as pet, duck,
darling, luvvie, flower or sweetheart.

According to the Liberal Democrat councillor Carl Minns, this is " brace
yourself " 'political correctness gone mad. I was brought up to refer to them as
ladies " that is good manners " but will this now be a disciplinary matter?'

Councillor Minns's confusion is, perhaps, a problem of class as well as gender.
Those words that the lower middle classes tend to think are polite " toilet,
pardon, serviette " are often reviled by the upper middle classes, and vice
versa. Thus, while one lot considers 'lady' to be a respectful and genteel form
of address, the other regards it as pretentious and inaccurate. A lady, as my
grandmother drummed into me from childhood, is a woman with a title. Anyone else
who calls herself a lady is a social climber.

Feminists, too, dislike the connotations of 'lady' " though for rather better
reasons. Woman is a straightforward word, a description of gender only lightly
dusted with overtones of maturity and earthiness. Lady, on the other hand, is
saturated with daintiness: it suggests coy glances and batting eyelashes, pencil
skirts, pinnies, manicures, tiny feet, dinner on the table and not a hair out of
place. It means never burping, snorting with laughter or buying a round.

It is no accident that ladies crop up a great deal in modern comedy, from the
mincing transvestite in Little Britain, with his trademark squawk of 'I'm a
laydee', to the Pub Landlord who insists on serving only 'white wine or a
fruit-based drink to the ladies', regardless of what they might actually desire.
In both cases, the joke relies on an understanding that only someone with an
absurdly narrow view of womankind would reduce us all to ladies.

Likewise, terms of endearment such as pet and darling can " in the wrong hands "
be powerfully annoying. I once had a colleague " no, dammit, an employee " who,
as a much older and mildly chauvinist man, disliked the fact that I was his
boss. Most of the time we rubbed along fine; I do believe we quite liked each
other. But if I ever queried a piece of his work he would retaliate by calling
me darling. 'No, darling,' he would sigh, his tone both sympathetic and weary,
as though he were addressing a backward child. 'You just don't get it, do you?'
It was untrue, unfair " and above all, unchivalrous. This is something that the
good burghers of Hull would do well to remember. Political correctness, mad or
otherwise, usually springs from a desire to be polite.

Humans have always used euphemisms and taboos to oil the wheels of social
intercourse; without them, we would be forever trampling on each other's sore
spots.

It is a curious fact that the same people who rail against political correctness
often pride themselves on their gentility in other respects. They would never
dream of causing offence by farting or dying; instead, they break wind and pass
away. They eat with their mouths closed, give their seats up on the train and
open doors for women. Yet as soon as they hear certain buzzwords (women, race,
equal opportunities) their manners desert them.

Godfrey Bloom " the Yorkshire businessmen and UKIP member who got in trouble for
saying that 'no self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right
place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age' " is typical of the breed.
When he was accused of sexism, he protested that, on the contrary, he loved
women and was the soul of chivalry. I dare say he is scrupulous about standing
when a 'lady' enters the room, and perhaps even escorting her into the next room
by guiding her elbow. But unless manners change with the times " to allow, for
example, for the agonies that women suffer over combining motherhood and work "
they soon become redundant.

Of course, not everything that is done in the name of political correctness is
sensible or even necessary. But the downfall of the anti-PC brigade is that "
just like the trend they excoriate " they take everything to extremes. They
regard all of modernity as a crackpot conspiracy foisted upon us by the left.

In the end, all that is required is a little empathy. Some of the words on Hull
council's verboten list " homo, poof, chinky, gypos, pikies " were always
offensive, or have become so with time. Others, like lady, will never be more
than irritating. But good manners should spare us even from that.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 21, 2005, Friday

I'M SORRY, DARLING, BUT LADIES SHOULD BE BANNED

BYLINE: JEMIMA LEWIS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 796 words


If this is political correctness, I'm all for it. Councillors at Hull City are
in a huff after being told not to use the word 'lady'. New guidelines from the
council's Corporate Equalities Unit suggest that persons of a feminine
persuasion should be referred to simply as women: not ladies, girls or lasses.
Neither should they be addressed with such terms of endearment as pet, duck,
darling, luvvie, flower or sweetheart.

According to the Liberal Democrat councillor Carl Minns, this is " brace
yourself " 'political correctness gone mad. I was brought up to refer to them as
ladies " that is good manners " but will this now be a disciplinary matter?'

Councillor Minns's confusion is, perhaps, a problem of class as well as gender.
Those words that the lower middle classes tend to think are polite " toilet,
pardon, serviette " are often reviled by the upper middle classes, and vice
versa. Thus, while one lot considers 'lady' to be a respectful and genteel form
of address, the other regards it as pretentious and inaccurate. A lady, as my
grandmother drummed into me from childhood, is a woman with a title. Anyone else
who calls herself a lady is a social climber.

Feminists, too, dislike the connotations of 'lady' " though for rather better
reasons. Woman is a straightforward word, a description of gender only lightly
dusted with overtones of maturity and earthiness. Lady, on the other hand, is
saturated with daintiness: it suggests coy glances and batting eyelashes, pencil
skirts, pinnies, manicures, tiny feet, dinner on the table and not a hair out of
place. It means never burping, snorting with laughter or buying a round.

It is no accident that ladies crop up a great deal in modern comedy, from the
mincing transvestite in Little Britain, with his trademark squawk of 'I'm a
laydee', to the Pub Landlord who insists on serving only 'white wine or a
fruit-based drink to the ladies', regardless of what they might actually desire.
In both cases, the joke relies on an understanding that only someone with an
absurdly narrow view of womankind would reduce us all to ladies.

Likewise, terms of endearment such as pet and darling can " in the wrong hands "
be powerfully annoying. I once had a colleague " no, dammit, an employee " who,
as a much older and mildly chauvinist man, disliked the fact that I was his
boss. Most of the time we rubbed along fine; I do believe we quite liked each
other. But if I ever queried a piece of his work he would retaliate by calling
me darling. 'No, darling,' he would sigh, his tone both sympathetic and weary,
as though he were addressing a backward child. 'You just don't get it, do you?'
It was untrue, unfair " and above all, unchivalrous. This is something that the
good burghers of Hull would do well to remember. Political correctness, mad or
otherwise, usually springs from a desire to be polite.

Humans have always used euphemisms and taboos to oil the wheels of social
intercourse; without them, we would be forever trampling on each other's sore
spots.

It is a curious fact that the same people who rail against political correctness
often pride themselves on their gentility in other respects. They would never
dream of causing offence by farting or dying; instead, they break wind and pass
away. They eat with their mouths closed, give their seats up on the train and
open doors for women. Yet as soon as they hear certain buzzwords (women, race,
equal opportunities) their manners desert them.

Godfrey Bloom " the Yorkshire businessmen and UKIP member who got in trouble for
saying that 'no self-respecting small businessman with a brain in the right
place would ever employ a lady of child-bearing age' " is typical of the breed.
When he was accused of sexism, he protested that, on the contrary, he loved
women and was the soul of chivalry. I dare say he is scrupulous about standing
when a 'lady' enters the room, and perhaps even escorting her into the next room
by guiding her elbow. But unless manners change with the times " to allow, for
example, for the agonies that women suffer over combining motherhood and work "
they soon become redundant.

Of course, not everything that is done in the name of political correctness is
sensible or even necessary. But the downfall of the anti-PC brigade is that "
just like the trend they excoriate " they take everything to extremes. They
regard all of modernity as a crackpot conspiracy foisted upon us by the left.

In the end, all that is required is a little empathy. Some of the words on Hull
council's verboten list " homo, poof, chinky, gypos, pikies " were always
offensive, or have become so with time. Others, like lady, will never be more
than irritating. But good manners should spare us even from that.

LOAD-DATE: October 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               6 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                October 18, 2005

SOME THONG ELSE TO WHINGE ABOUT

BYLINE: Juliet Lawrence Wilson

SECTION: OPINION

LENGTH: 351 words


I USED to believe I had impeccable manners.

Even in these modern times I've managed a sense of decency and decorum - or so I
thought.

The lovely people at the Good Housekeeping Institute say otherwise. Who works
for them anyway?

I always thought it was full of middle-aged, twin-set wearing, UKIP-voting
ladies who didn't bother their minds with anything more important than baking a
perfectly-risen scone.

Offend

They probably all have maids to do the tiresome housework so they've kindly
published the modern girl's guide to manners.

It's always been a bit of a minefield. I've always found "please", "thank you"
and "sorry" to be all I need to get through life.

But now, thanks to the GH ladies, I can hardly step out the door lest I offend
someone.

For instance, did you know you are not supposed to "discuss intimate details of
your sex life with your girlfriends" or "shout, scream and argue in public".
Well, that's my Saturday night out of the window.

However, there are some good GH manner rules.

"Not indulging in nude stretching or bending in the gym changing rooms". Mind
you it's far more entertaining when you're in the men's.

Also, showing your thong above your waistband is seriously out of order. Which
just about leaves every schoolgirl in the country in need of etiquette lessons.

I must be sure to bear in mind that it is extremely rude "to be late for yoga
class". I heard the other day that yoga classes are supposed to improve your
health and wellbeing.

I always thought they were popular because women wanted to be able to get their
feet behind their heads to impress guys.

I rejoice, however, at the suggestion that it is impolite to talk on your mobile
phone at the dinner table. I have been on dates when my companion has done this
and I've been known to walk out, never to return, whilst they are in
mid-conversation.

Lastly, the GH ladies suggest we gals refrain from ogling other men in front of
our partners.

When men stop ogling women I will follow suit. Until then I will continue to
wolf whistle at men in kilts.


LOAD-DATE: November 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               7 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 17, 2005, Monday

LETTER: UNEQUAL PAY FOR WOMEN IN THE EU

BYLINE: MARY HONEYBALL MEP

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 32

LENGTH: 157 words


Sir: Can I suggest to Godfrey Bloom, UKIP MEP, that instead of saying women
should clean behind fridges and posing with porn magazines (Pandora, 14 October)
that he try and do something about the real problems that he is elected to
solve?

This week, the European Parliament heard that 30 years after equal pay
legislation, the wage gap between men and women across Europe is still between
16 per cent and 33 per cent, and in 17 European Union countries, the risk of
extreme poverty for women greatly exceeds the risk for men.

Might Mr Bloom, instead of fooling himself into thinking that women are
'sneering' at him because he is male, wake up to the fact that real politicians
are trying to redress the gender balance. He should put his energy into creating
a fairer society for future generations, who more often than not, are left to
the care and responsibility of women.

MARY HONEYBALL MEP

(LABOUR, LONDON) LONDON W9

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                October 16, 2005

'WE MUST QUIT EUROPE'; REBEL TORY CALLS FOR A TOTAL WITHDRAWAL

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 409 words


PHILIP Davies has defied party policy to become the first Tory MP to call for
Britain's total withdrawal from Europe.

The new MP for Shipley in Yorkshire, who hit the headlines last week after a
scuffle with a Labour politician, is heading for another dustup with party whips
after declaring that he would not be silenced on his off-message views.

He said it was time for an "honest debate" about Britain's continued membership
of the European Union and called for a new referendum.

He said: "I am a lone voice but I don't think I will be for long.

"People of my generation have not been asked about what they think about the
European Union and the generation before voted for a very different union to the
one we have now."

The 33-year-old backbencher, elected in May, has already made front page news
after an embarrassing brawl with 57-year-old Labour MP Stephen Pound following a
radio interview.

His determination to champion the cause of withdrawal could give the whips
office a fresh headache as the father-of-one dismissed current policy, which
calls for renegotiation of some treaty elements.

Mr Davies' portrayal of a "corrupt, inefficient, bureaucratic and
antidemocratic" organisation may chime with many colleagues.

But not even arch Tory Eurosceptic Bill Cash has called for Britain's pullout -
arguing instead for a complex renegotiation of the relationship.

Mr Davies said: "What I want to see is a referendum on the continued membership
of the European Union.

"We have got to accept that our former leader William Hague's motto of 'in
Europe, not run by Europe' is no longer an option. Being in Europe means being
run by Europe and the only option is withdrawal."

His comments cast doubt on the hopes of Conservative leadership contender Ken
Clarke that Europe will not be a party obsession over the next term.

Mr Davies is a supporter of onetime front-runner David Davis, but stressed that
his views were not shared by the leadership hopeful.

Former supermarket manager Mr Davies said that he had no intention of quitting
the Tories for the UK Independence Party.

But UKIP, the party which advocates withdrawal from Europe, said that it would
welcome Mr Davies into the fold.

A UKIP spokesman added: "There are now only 197 Conservative MPs to go!"

A senior Labour said: "If this is the true voice of Britain's Tory party, it
could mean the death of Britain's economic success."

LOAD-DATE: October 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 16, 2005, Sunday

Young Cameron looks a winner

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 50 words


PARTY POOPER: Apparently Cameron is the man because he is the Tory version of
Tony Blair. I thought we were trying to get rid of Blair. The Tories do not want
a lookalike, or, for that matter, a soundalike. If he gets elected, I'm off to
UKIP.

Clive Brickell Blandford Forum, Dorset


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Letter

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               10 of 27 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                            October 16, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

'We must quit Europe';
Rebel Tory calls for a total withdrawal

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 36

LENGTH: 396  words


PHILIP Davies has defied party policy to become the first Tory MP to call for
Britain's total withdrawal from Europe.

The new MP for Shipley in Yorkshire, who hit the headlines last week after a
scuffle with a Labour politician, is heading for another dustup with party whips
after declaring that he would not be silenced on his off-message views.

He said it was time for an "honest debate" about Britain's continued membership
of the European Union and called for a new referendum.

He said: "I am a lone voice but I don't think I will be for long.

"People of my generation have not been asked about what they think about the
European Union and the generation before voted for a very different union to the
one we have now."

The 33-year-old backbencher, elected in May, has already made front page news
after an embarrassing brawl with 57-year-old Labour MP Stephen Pound following a
radio interview.

His determination to champion the cause of withdrawal could give the whips
office a fresh headache as the father-of-one dismissed current policy, which
calls for renegotiation of some treaty elements.

Mr Davies' portrayal of a "corrupt, inefficient, bureaucratic and
antidemocratic" organisation may chime with many colleagues.

But not even arch Tory Eurosceptic Bill Cash has called for Britain's pullout -
arguing instead for a complex renegotiation of the relationship.

Mr Davies said: "What I want to see is a referendum on the continued membership
of the European Union.

"We have got to accept that our former leader William Hague's motto of 'in
Europe, not run by Europe' is no longer an option. Being in Europe means being
run by Europe and the only option is withdrawal."

His comments cast doubt on the hopes of Conservative leadership contender Ken
Clarke that Europe will not be a party obsession over the next term.

Mr Davies is a supporter of onetime front-runner David Davis, but stressed that
his views were not shared by the leadership hopeful.

Former supermarket manager Mr Davies said that he had no intention of quitting
the Tories for the UK Independence Party.

But UKIP, the party which advocates withdrawal from Europe, said that it would
welcome Mr Davies into the fold.

A UKIP spokesman added: "There are now only 197 Conservative MPs to go!"

A senior Labour said: "If this is the true voice of Britain's Tory party, it
could mean the death of Britain's economic success."

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: FIREBRAND: Philip Davies

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               11 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                October 14, 2005
                              Correction Appended

People

BYLINE: Simon Goodley

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 403 words


Jeremy Deedes, below, has stepped down as vice-chairman of the Telegraph, his
third retirement from the newspaper group where his father, Lord Deedes, and
youngest son, Henry, still work as journalists. The middle Deedes first retired
as the Telegraph's managing director at the age of 60 in November 2003, only to
be called back as chief executive at the request of the then owners, Hollinger.
The company asked Deedes to sell the business in the wake of the controversy
surrounding Lord Black. The group was bought by the Barclay brothers last year
and Deedes retired again, but remained as vice-chairman. "With my father working
there since 1931, the Telegraph has been part of my family life for as long as I
can remember," he said. "You couldn't not miss it when it is that ingrained, but
I'm very excited about our new project." He is behind the Sportsman, a sports
betting daily due to launch next year.

A former aide to Robert Kilroy Silk has launched a group which aims to fight
back at what it views as "Islamofascism". Tony Bennett , who worked as a
researcher for the former politician and television presenter, is recruiting
members for the Active Resistance to Islamification, which plans to "erect one
sign or symbol that is offensive to those sensitive Muslim flowers in our midst
for every one they succeed in removing from our society". Bennett, who believes
Islam is an "evil force" but insists that he "doesn't believe in
discrimination", added: "Last week one Muslim said he was offended by a picture
of a pig and demanded that all things resembling pigs at his work were removed."
In retaliation Bennett painted a St George's cross on a "Welcome to Harlow" road
sign. Last year he left the UK Independence party after describing the prophet
Muhammad as a paedophile.

Dale Djerassi , the producer who was once married to Robert Maxwell's daughter
Isabel, is bringing his play about the tycoon to London. Written by Rod Beacham,
directed by Alan Dossor and starring Philip York, Lies Have Been Told opens at
the New End theatre in Hammersmith on October 25. Djerassi saw the show at last
year's Edinburgh Fringe and liked it so much that he bought a stake in the play
and options on the film and television rights. "Robert Maxwell was an extremely
charismatic and clever bully," he recalled. "The funny thing is that I actually
got on with him."

simon.goodley@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: October 19, 2005

CORRECTION: * New End Theatre, where the play The Lies You Have Been Told opens
on October 25, is in Hampstead and not Hammersmith (People, page 7, October 14).

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               12 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 14, 2005, Friday

PANDORA

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 828 words

HIGHLIGHT:
EDMOND TERAKOPIAN/PA


Blair's secret hotel assignation with Chirac's deadly rival

Tony Blair and Jacques Chirac made efforts to put recent fisticuffs behind them,
when they publicly kissed and made up in Paris last week.

Sadly, relations are now frostier than ever, after the PM decided to invite
Chirac's arch-nemesis, French home affairs minister Nicolas Sarkozy, for a
secret tete a tete in Westminster on Monday.

Although Downing Street initially denied that any meeting had taken place, it
was later forced to issue a 'clarification,' saying that the two had been
involved in 'private discussions'.

Now details have reached Pandora of both the contents of their conversation, and
the extraordinary lengths that Downing Street went to in a bid to prevent the
summit from becoming public.

Initially, I gather that Sarkozy (above left) was due to arrive at Downing
Street at 11am, for talks in the PM's private office. However, he was later
instructed to present himself at the Marriott Hotel next to Westminster Bridge
at 8.30pm. Staff ushered him into a private suite, where Blair spent an hour,
discussing what one French observer has described as the 'British economic
model.'

This marks a severe breach of protocol on both men's part. Sarkozy is Minister
for the Interior " the equivalent of Charles Clarke " so was upstaging Chirac by
discussing economic affairs.

Blair, for his part, should never have held official talks with Sarkozy. In any
case, economics are supposed to be Gordon Brown's baby. His spokesman will say
only: 'It was a private and informal meeting.'

Zilli lands drinking friends in the soup

Following in the recent footsteps of both Gordon Ramsay and Marco Pierre White
another superchef is getting ready to spill the borlotti.

Aldo Zilli, the Italian restaurateur whose colourful private life made headlines
throughout the 1990s, has added his name to the list of culinary heroes writing
their autobiography.

So long as his memory's up to it, the book ought to be a cracker. In years gone
by, Zilli was a regular drinking partner of such hellraisers as Freddie Mercury,
George Michael and Chris Evans.

Although he's now cleaned up his act " and recently lost three stone on the TV
show Celebrity Fit Club " publishing sources say Zilli has promised that nothing
will be off limits.

'Aldo decided to write his book after learning that Chris Evans was also doing
one,' I'm told.

'Evans recently decided to scrap his book, after it turned into a muckraking
exercise, but Aldo ploughed on. George Michael, in particular, will want to read
the results with great interest.'

Brussels or bust for Bloom

This is the UKIP MEP, Godfrey Bloom. You may remember him as the chap who made
headlines last year, for saying " on joining the EU's Equal Opportunities
Committee " that modern women 'don't clean behind the fridge enough'. Yesterday,
he brandished a copy of Busty Beauties at a meeting of the same committee. He'd
earlier purchased it from the parliament's own newsagent. 'I don't think I've
sat through an equal opportunities meeting, ever, without them spending an hour
talking about the exploitation of women,' Bloom tells me. 'They drone on and on
about it, and sneer because I'm a man. And then their own shop is selling this
... It's the hypocrisy I can't stand. This is another example of the double
standards that pervade at the EU.'

Fancy footwork

England cricketer Darren Gough has been slated for boycotting the winter tour of
Pakistan in order to shake a leg in the light entertainment show Strictly Come
Dancing.

Cannily, the Yorkshire bowler " who will be handsomely rewarded for foxtrotting
in front of Bruce Forsyth " is now attempting to claim that the project will
actually improve his long-term contribution to the side.

'I'm working muscles that I haven't used before, and it's a great thing because
I've had a bad leg, which has been really weak since some major operations. It's
feeling much better since I've been doing the cha-cha- cha.'

Notes one cricket writer: 'As far as the England team are concerned, Goughy can
stick his playing career up his ch-ch-chuff.'

Why Guinness is good for Chris

Like many colleagues, the rock 'n' roll pioneer Chris Rea admits to a fondness
for the occasional tipple. Sadly, the Teeside superstar " who was diagnosed with
cancer a few years back " is no longer in possession of his pancreas. But he's
taken the blow in his stride.

'I have to be pretty careful what I eat and drink these days,' he tells me.
'Guinness is fine, and I'm also allowed a bit of wine, thank goodness. But
losing my pancreas was actually a good thing in one way: all it takes now is
four pints of Guinness and I'm away with the fairies for an entire weekend.'

Rea was showing Pandora an exhibition of his paintings at the Cork Street
Gallery in Mayfair yesterday. Being lunchtime, he offered me nothing more
intoxicating than a milky cup of tea.

LOAD-DATE: October 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               13 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            October 9, 2005, Sunday

HE'S YOUNG, HE'S BRIGHT, HE'S BLAIR REBORN. AND THE TORIES KNOW IT

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1110 words


Not many people know this, but Tony Blair is really a time lord. Not only that,
but he is in the process of regenerating, like Dr Who, into a new body. Before
the slightly disbelieving eyes of television viewers, the lines of 11 years of
care are smoothing into peachy young cheeks, the hair is becoming a thicker,
darker, boyish quiff. When he speaks, he sounds a bit different, several grades
posher.

You can tell he is the same person, though, not just because he says the same
kind of things, but from the essential traits of his personality. Just like the
old Tony Blair, the new one is more right-wing than he lets on. Just like the
old one, the new one is slippery on aspects of his personal history about which
he feels insecure. The old Blair denied that he had been a member of CND; the
new one said that he had been an MP for five years until it was pointed out that
this involved rounding up from four years and four months. David Cameron,
suddenly the favourite to win the Conservative leadership, has nearly completed
the transformation.

We are now in the remarkable situation where, assuming there are no shocking
personal revelations to come about the three leading candidates, David Cameron
and David Davis are most likely to go through to the final ballot of party
members " which Cameron is likely to win. I thought Kenneth Clarke won the
warmest applause in Blackpool last week as a form of apology: they love him
dearly, and they know he's good, but selling out to Europe is one thing that
they will not contemplate. And Cameron will win that run-off because, as with
Blair, the party will be told by opinion polls and the media that he is a
winner.

The success with which Cameron carries off the regeneration lies above all in
the fact that he comes across as nice. That was Blair's secret, and that is why
David Davis failed his audition for the part: his use of Blair's language seemed
grafted on, an artificial, calculated construction. That is one of the
unfairnesses of politics. Davis's pitch for 'the many, not the privileged few'
may be more authentic than Cameron's, but Cameron seems to mean it because he
does niceness so well.

Just like the early Blair, Cameron comes across as a sensible member of the
human race. And he is also the high-risk, exciting candidate. Just as the
journalist Hugo Young once described Blair as the 'alarming' candidate for the
Labour leadership in 1994, there is a whiff of danger, and of exhilaration, in
the air around Cameron. Partly, this is because he has risen to contention even
faster than Blair did. Blair had been an MP for 11 years, a member of the shadow
cabinet for six, and had shadowed one of the great offices of state, the home
secretary, before he ran for his party's leadership.

Cameron's student life is only now being subjected to the kind of intensive
journalistic scrutiny that might have developed over the years of a more
conventional ascent. So far, he has passed two important tests. He dealt with
the drugs question when asked about it at a fringe meeting in Blackpool. He had
had 'a normal university experience', he said. He was 'enough of a human' to
have done lots of things at university, but 'too much of a politician' to
discuss them. Private Eye once described Tony Blair as 'the only member of the
Labour Party a normal person could ever vote for'; I suspect Cameron's answer
put him in a similar category.

The other test that he passed last week was the Michael Crick Newsnight profile.
At a similar point in Blair's career, six weeks before the Labour leadership
election, he survived the ordeal of the tenacious Crick digging up old documents
and interviewing people from his school and university days. Cameron even
emerged relatively unscathed from Crick's asking why he had joined a gentlemen's
club, White's, that does not admit women.

Allied with niceness, an easy confidence and a sharp mind can escape pitfalls
that would trap lesser politicians. The important point about Cameron's Oxford
career is that he got a first " along with his contemporary, Ed Balls, the MP
for Normanton and right-hand person to his likely adversary at the next general
election, Gordon Brown. Cameron is the new Blair, therefore, but there are two
important problems with that from the Conservatives' point of view. One is the
fact that Cameron is " as Blair was " more right- wing than he appears.

He has been good at avoiding policy specifics, so far, and at endorsing the sort
of Labour policies that make the Labour Party the most uncomfortable. He says
the right things privately about being prepared, in his push for the centre
ground, to lose some of the Tory core vote to challengers from the right such as
the UK Independence Party. But his political origins are on the Thatcherite
right, as are those of most of his associates. Until as recently as last week,
for instance, Cameron's 'chief of staff' was Alex Deane, a student debating
champion so far out to the libertarian right that he scandalised the Daily Mail
by asking why polygamy should be illegal: 'If I want to marry more than one
person, why should the state stop me?'

True, some of Blair's team were reformed Bennites, but his own ideological
starting point " though he concealed it " was right-wing Labour. The point being
that Blair's tendency to the right pushed the Labour Party towards the centre;
if Cameron tends to the right, it will pull the Tories away. We simply do not
know, until he takes over, how energetically or successfully Cameron will drive
the party towards the centre ground against its instincts, and possibly his own.

The other big difference between Blair 1994 and Cameron 2005 is that the
Conservatives now are not in a similar position to Labour then. When John Smith
died, Labour was already on course to win the coming election. Whatever the
arguments at the time between modernisers and traditionalists, the destruction
of the Tory reputation for economic competence by the ERM debycle meant that the
real choice was between a comfortable majority under Smith or a landslide under
Blair. No such luxury is " yet " available to the Conservatives today. As things
stand, they face the choice between losing badly under Davis or, at the very
best, a hung parliament under Cameron.

So, Cameron is a striking fit as the regeneration of the time-defying hero of
the long-running Blair serial. And his election as Tory leader guarantees the
continuation of the epic struggle between the Doctor and his arch enemy, the
Master, as played by Gordon Brown. But the story still may not end in the way
that the Tory scriptwriters hope.

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               14 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 9, 2005, Sunday

Opportunity comes knocking for the wannabe stars of UKIP

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; News; 21

LENGTH: 102 words


The good news is: you could win £1,000. The bad news is: you have to be a
potential star of the UK Independence party, which is launching its own version
of Pop Idol.

Young stars of the party will compete -speaking on a chosen subject -in 11
regional finals for what's billed as UKIP Opportunity Knocks. "It's important to
identify young talent," says competition organiser Alan Bown. "We called it
Opportunity Knocks because Hughie Green, the presenter, was a big supporter of
the party."

The 11 national finalists also win a free trip to Brussels. Second prize: two
free trips to Brussels.


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atticus

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               15 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            October 9, 2005, Sunday

Kilroy-Silk 'milks' Brussels for perks

BYLINE: Jonathan Calvert, Gareth Walsh and Nicola Smith in Brussels

SECTION: Home news; News; 8

LENGTH: 1161 words


THE MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk has taken advantage of the Euro "gravy train" that he
had pledged to expose by employing his wife and chauffeur at taxpayers' expense.

The former television presenter, who has rarely attended parliamentary meetings
in Brussels or Strasbourg, now stands accused of taking full advantage of
generous perks.

He has surrounded himself with staff paid out of his £125,000 MEP's allowance,
despite being elected on a Eurosceptic platform to sweep away the Brussels
establishment.

After he was elected in June 2004 he promoted Rodney Douglas, his chauffeur, to
the role of MEP's "assistant".

Douglas, whose contract was terminated in June 2005, told The Sunday Times that
despite his new job description, his main role continued to be driving
Kilroy-Silk's Daimler.

The MEP, who no longer belongs to any political party, added Jan, his wife, to
the European parliament's payroll at about the same time that Douglas left.

The politician's income fell sharply when he lost both his BBC television Kilroy
show in 2004 and a Sunday newspaper column at the start of 2005.

At least six other UK MEPs employ their spouses as parliamentary assistants,
which is permitted under the rules of the institution.

Kilroy-Silk, who has a £3m villa in Spain, receives a salary of Pounds 59,000 a
year as an MEP and is entitled to a £32,000 office allowance. He can also claim
generous travel expenses and a day-rate of £185 if he attends parliament.

Yet for a five-month period until late September there is no public record of
Kilroy-Silk attending the full parliament's voting sessions. Until two weeks
ago, he had voted in only 12 of 40 sessions this year.

In his final appearance at the spring session, on April 12, he abstained from a
vote which would have made MEPs' allowances available for scrutiny on the
internet.

When Kilroy-Silk entered the European parliament as a UK Independence (Ukip)
party member last year, he promised to attack the Strasbourg parliament and
expose "the whole edifice ... how they go on the gravy train and spend their
time in restaurants and the rest of it".

Days after, he railed in a newspaper article against the "extravagance and
waste" in Brussels, which he had experienced first-hand.

"MEPs are met at the airport," he wrote. "Eased into an air-conditioned
chauffeur-driven limo and taken to the parliament buildings where they are given
a suite of rooms ... bigger than many of the homes in which my constituents
live.

"It's not difficult to believe that each MEP costs the taxpayers more than £1m a
year."

However, Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP who lives in a Georgian country house
once owned by the singer Ozzy Osbourne, was happy to carry on using his own
chauffeur-driven car. He was also willing to increase his own small burden on
the European budget.

He upgraded Douglas's role from chauffeur to MEP's assistant, giving himself a
driver and helper rolled into one. This meant he could claim the "assistant"
part of Douglas' salary from his parliamentary staff allowance.

Douglas's salary remained "roughly" the same as it had been for the previous
three years while he was employed privately to drive Kilroy-Silk.

Last week he confirmed he had been paid as an "assistant" to the MEP but had
difficulty recalling any of his duties in that role. He had the following
conversation with a reporter: Reporter: "What would you call assistant work?"

Douglas: "If we did TV broadcasting or whatever I was involved in that."

Reporter: "In what way?"

Douglas: "Er. In what way? Erm."

Reporter: "You drove him there and back, presumably?"

Douglas: "Er, yes (laughs) ... I was classed as his assistant. That was it."

Reporter: "But your role was as a driver."

Douglas: "The main role was as a driver, yes."

Reporter: "Was there anything you did as an assistant?"

Douglas: "Well yes, I drove loads of documents around and that type of thing."

Reporter: "Which again is a sort of driver's role, yes?"

Douglas: "Yes."

Reporter: "And there was nothing else, really."

Douglas: "Erm, no."

When Douglas was dismissed he claims that he was given only two weeks' notice
after four years' service.

In the same month Jan Kilroy-Silk was put on the parliamentary payroll for her
work as the MEP's press officer, a job she had done since he was elected.

In addition Kilroy-Silk employs Helen Marks, a secretary who works at an office
in his home in Britain, using his parliamentary staff allowance, as well as a
secretarial assistant in Brussels. Until August, he also employed Tony Bennett,
a lawyer who acted as his researcher.

Bennett says Kilroy-Silk claimed money from the parliament for "political
information activities" as well. He legitimately spent £8,000 of it promoting
himself in newspaper advertisements and running a personal website before the
calling of this year's general election, in which he stood as a candidate.

In August, four MEPs in his Euro-constituency wrote to Josep Borrell, the
parliament's president, to complain that he was doing "little or no work". Last
Friday, Kilroy-Silk, 63, said he had never intended to be "buried" in the
European parliament or attend any Brussels committees.

He said he had been actively pursuing his work outside parliament which he
described as a place where "Nobody listens, nobody takes any notice, nobody
cares."

He had won his seat as a member of Ukip but resigned the whip in October 2004,
left the party in January 2005 and formed Veritas, his own party, in February.
He has since left that party, too.

"I have been in the constituency every week since (the general election). I was
fighting a by-election in July and I had a holiday in August," he said.

He added that his wife was the most hard-working of his staff and was underpaid
for what she did. He had promoted Douglas to become his assistant because he
wished to help to develop the career of an employee who had become a "part of
the family".

His accountants had calculated the amount of money he should pay towards
Douglas's salary for services such as chauffeuring. Only the duties relating to
Kilroy-Silk's work as an MEP were paid by the parliament.

The assistant's duties, he said, included assembling his papers, co-ordinating
and liaising with people at his speaking engagements and organising travel. "He
worked with my secretary and Tony Bennett and he kind of linked them together
and co-ordinated them so they all knew what was happening," he added.

Last night Bennett, who left Kilroy-Silk last August, said Douglas did indeed
help to "link" him to the MEP's secretary.

"He used to deliver documents in his car," he said.

Chris Heaton-Harris, a Conservative MEP in the same constituency, said of
Kilroy-Silk: "I actually thought he had something to offer. But instead of
becoming part of the solution, he has become part of the problem."


LOAD-DATE: October 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Insight

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               16 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 09, 2005, Sunday

Chairman resigns (twice) in furious UKIP row

BYLINE: BY DANIEL FOGGO

SECTION: News; Pg. 006

LENGTH: 891 words

EVERYONE'S talking about party leadership: Tony, Gordon, David, Ken, David (the
other one) and even a Malcolm.

The internecine warfare at the top of the main political parties, however,
cannot rival the self-destructive tendencies of the UK Independence Party.

Last week, as its leadership acknowledged that the party's fortunes had ebbed
severely since the European elections, this minor parliamentary grouping saw the
biggest of political spats among some of its senior figures.

On the eve of its party conference, which ended yesterday, a furious,
expletive-filled exchange of e-mails took place that precipitated the
resignation - twice over - of the party's chairman, Petrina Holdsworth, despite
an apology being issued to her by Roger Knapman, the party's leader.

The UKIP MEP Nigel Farage tried to play down the significance of the resignation
by saying: "You are on-call seven days a week and all you get is aggravation. I
can't blame anybody in a voluntary capacity walking away."

But the row between Ms Holdsworth and Mike Nattrass, the party's deputy leader
and MEP, has scandalised the Eurosceptic movement and left its grassroots
supporters stunned. Although the correspondence at the centre of the row began
innocuously enough, it soon escalated:

September 26

From: Petrina Holdsworth

To: UKIP MEPs and members of the National Executive Committee

"At the moment we have an awful lot of people employed by MEPs over here and I'm
not sure that all of them are fully utilised."

September 28

From: Mike Nattrass

To: Petrina Holdsworth

"Petrina, when you take your swipes at MEPs you should first understand what you
are saying. You suffer from a blind ignorance of the facts and refuse to
understand even when your nose is pushed in it. We are expected to attend
Parliament, make speeches at 10pm, leave our businesses and families to fly
backwards and forwards for UKIP and then look forward to a load of crap from a
chairman who does not even try to understand."

From: Petrina Holdsworth

To: Mike Nattrass

"This sort of reply is not helpful, it is just plain rude. If you are incapable
of keeping a civil tongue in your head you should keep quiet."

From: Mike Nattrass

To: Petrina Holdsworth

"You are the rude one. To send a message of effective 'no confidence' in the way
MEPs employ their staff and copied to the NEC is BLOODY RUDE and DESERVES A RUDE
REPLY."

From: Petrina Holdsworth

To: Mike Nattrass

"Mike, there seems little point in continuing this exchange."

September 28, 8.53pm

From: Petrina Holdsworth

To: Mike Nattrass

"Mike, I revisited your e-mails once the dust had settled and on reflection
believe you have gone completely beyond the bounds of reasonable behaviour both
in your language and in the assertions which you made. I demand an apology as I
do not see that anyone on the National Executive Committee should be subject to
such extraordinary abuse by a fellow member."

September 29

From: Mike Nattrass

To: Petrina Holdsworth

"Petrina it has been increasingly clear that you have a view of what MEPs do and
the benefits they get which is not based on reality. Also you feel that the
membership 'think we have gone native'.

"I want an apology from you on this issue... If you as chairman make these
misguided statements to the National Executive Committee there is no hope."

From: Petrina Holdsworth

To: Mike Nattrass

"I have warned you all of the feeling within the party. What more do you want?
Blood probably. I am still waiting for my apology!"

Shortly after this e-mail, Ms Holdsworth decided to resign, but was persuaded
back from the brink by Roger Knapman, the party leader. He and eight of the
party's other MEPs wrote an open letter addressed to her.

October 2

From: Roger Knapman, Nigel Farage, Jeffrey Titford, Gerard Batten, Godfrey
Bloom, Graham Booth, Derek Clark, Tom Wise and John Whittaker

To: Petrina Holdsworth

"We were very sorry to see the intemperate, inaccurate and unnecessary e-mails
that you were sent. This sort of thing achieves nothing except to damage our
cause. We are, however, delighted that you will stay on as chairman for the last
year of Roger's period as leader."

Ms Holdsworth considered the letter to be adequate, but only as a "holding
statement" pending a more fulsome apology and preferably the removal of Mr
Nattrass from his position. Within days, however, it had all gone wrong again.
By Tuesday, Ms Holdsworth had resigned for a second, and apparently final, time.
She sent an e-mail to the party's NEC members to explain.

October 4

From: Petrina Holdsworth

To: All NEC members

"I was approached by Roger Knapman to rescind my resignation as chairman on the
basis that Roger was willing to remove Nattrass from the deputy leadership for
his recent behaviour. I agreed to that.

"Roger then told me that it would be very difficult to remove it forthwith as
the conferences were so close in time with all the attendant publicity. He said
that he would obtain a letter from the other MEPs apologising for Nattrass's
behaviour.

"I went to London on the 3rd of October. On my return... nothing had been added
to the short holding statement...

"I am left with no alternative in my view but to resign yet again as chairman of
the party and from the NEC in order to preserve my own integrity and
self-respect."

LOAD-DATE: October 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               17 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                October 7, 2005

Killer wins vote for prisoners

BYLINE: STEVE DOUGHTY

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 683 words


CRIMINALS in jail are to be given the right to vote after a controversial order
yesterday by European human rights judges.

In a ruling that overturned 1,000 years of historic English practice, the
Strasbourg court ordered that convicted prisoners should no longer be stripped
of the franchise.

It also demolished a pledge given by Tony Blair less than seven months ago that
the vote would not be given to prisoners under the Labour government.

The judgment followed a fouryear legal battle by 54-year-old axe killer John
Hirst, who claimed he had been wrongly denied the vote while serving 25 years in
jail for the manslaughter of his landlady.

Yesterday Lord Chancellor Lord Falconer conceded he would now be forced to
examine which prisoners should be allowed the vote.

The European ruling, backed by a 12-5 majority among the Strasbourg judges
including a Croatian, an Albanian, another from the tiny republic of San Marino
and a lawyer from Bosnia prompted furious reaction.

Dominic Grieve, the Tory Shadow Attorney General, said: 'Giving prisoners the
vote would be ludicrous.

'The courts have ruled that convicted prisoners, many of them dangerous, cannot
be allowed to take part in normal society for the duration of their sentence.
Why therefore should they have a say in how that society is run?'

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage said the judgment was a 'wholly improper and unwarranted
interference in British democracy which places temptation in the Government's
way and which could lead to accusations that prisoners' votes are being bought'.

Lord Falconer's officials said a review of British law would consider using the
gravity of their offence to decide which prisoners would receive the vote.

That compromise with Strasbourg would mean criminals in jail who are serving
shorter sentences, for example burglars, would be able to take part in
elections.

Meanwhile the most serious criminals, including murderers, rapists and armed
robbers, would continue to be banned.

The review reverses the Government's line laid down when Mr Blair insisted in
March that convicted prisoners would not get the vote.

Lord Falconer told BBC Radio 4's World at One programme: 'The result of this is
not that every convicted prisoner is in the future going to get the right to
vote.

'We need to see whether there are any categories that should be given the right
to vote. It could well be that, having considered it, it is a proportionate
conclusion that all people who are convicted and sent to prison cannot vote.'
Hirst, who was released last year, has become a campaigner for prisoners' rights
and has brought a series of claims before British courts with the help of Pounds
80,000 in legal aid from the taxpayer.

All his cases have been rejected by British judges. But his push for the vote
was backed by prison reformers including former Tory Home Secretary Lord Hurd,
retired Chief Inspector of Prisons Sir David Ramsbotham, and Liberal Democrat
leaders.

Yesterday the Court of Human Rights rejected the last British Government appeal
against Hirst.

The majority of its judges said British law conflicts with a 1952 protocol to
European human rights rules.

This says that elections must 'ensure the free expression of the opinion of the
people'.

The jurists said Westminster had never properly weighed the interests of
prisoners and had not debated their voting rights 'in the light of modern day
penal policy and of current human rights standards'.

The judges overruled British objections that giving the vote to prisoners was '
offensive to many people'.

Hirst was awarded Pounds 16,500 in legal expenses, although the Strasbourg court
said his expenses claims, which included Pounds 300 an hour for his solicitor
and Pounds 8,000 for two days work by a barrister, were ' excessive and
unreasonable'.

Some 48,000 prisoners are currently barred from voting. Inmates who can vote
include those on remand awaiting trial, and those convicted of a limited range
of offences including non-payment of fines and contempt of court.

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               18 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            October 07, 2005, Friday

Your view on the Tory leadership contest The Telegraph's website asked readers
which of the five contenders they thought would make the best leader. This is
what they saidHave your say: who do you think should be the next leader? Join
our debate on this and other matters at telegraph.co.uk/yourview

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 027

LENGTH: 3258 words

CAMERON

I was backing Davis but have switched allegiances to Cameron. He has prime
minister written all over him. If Ken Clarke wins I shall vote for Gordon Brown
because I don't want to be sold to Europe.

Malcolm Bradle, Nottingham CAMERON

I am of the generation that supported Anthony Eden and Harold Macmillan, but my
generation must accept that we have supported the past Conservative governments
and must now give way to a more youthful band of activists. It is up to the "new
generation" of Conservative voters to elect a youthful leader and I am of the
opinion that David Cameron is the right choice. So! He will make mistakes, but
if he did not then I would question if he is doing his job.

Peter Langlois, Canterbury CLARKE

Clarke followed by Cameron without a doubt. Davis is just Mr Hague, Mr Duncan
Smith or Mr Howard with attitude.

It's been tried, and failed, three times with the public.

Come on Conservatives - go for the winners! Mr Clarke will attract all us Iraq
sceptics back into the tent.

Peter Holttum, Poole, Dorset CLARKE

If, as seems likely, Gordon Brown, the present chancellor, will be the next
prime minister, who better to face him across the Dispatch Box but a former
chancellor, who, some say, seeded the economy to give Gordon Brown the free ride
he has had for the last eight years of spend, spend, spend. Kenneth Clarke must
be the choice to head the Conservatives into, and through the next general
election with a manifesto to abolish all means-tested benefits for a fairer,
just, society where individual prudence is rewarded.

Brian Faulkner, Bridgwater, Somerset CAMERON

Clarke is too old and too much of a one-man show to unite the party. Davis is
not up to the top job and the party is realising it in the nick of time. Fox is
too Right-wing to win back many voters who have swung to Blair and the Liberal
Democrats since 1997. Rifkind is a good cabinet minister but lacks mass appeal.
None of these would have done any better than Howard in 2005. It has to be
Cameron, with the even more charismatic Osborne as his running mate.

Mark Howdle, London CLARKE

The young, inexperienced Cameron thinks he will appeal to young Conservatives.
For those of us of a certain age we haven't got time to wait. Without doubt,
there is only one candidate worthy of the position - Kenneth Clarke - and he
should have been nominated long ago, so let's stop wasting time and let him deal
with the unholy mess Blair has got us into.

R E Knowles, Cumbria CAMERON

David Cameron clearly has the Zeitgeist, which these days is very important.
Having him as a leader would mean that the party really has changed and is ready
to accept the demographic and social changes of the latter half of the 20th
century. I like the fact that he's willing to face up to the realities of the
market place and globalisation with regard to drug laws.

John Small, Faversham, Kent CLARKE

We have to ask ourselves of a leader, "who is the most likely to bring back the
voters?", rather than the self-indulgent "who is the closest to my own political
ideology?". How do you plan a Long March? One step at a time! Clarke is the sine
qua non.

David Davidson CLARKE

When will the Tories learn? They keep making the same mistakes as "Old Labour",
electing a leader that they want rather than one the electorate will vote for.
David Davis is about as dynamic as Neil Kinnock. It has been said that they
should go for a younger man like David Cameron. Like they did when they voted
for William Hague? If I was Tony Blair I would be keeping my fingers crossed and
hoping they don't vote for Kenneth Clarke.

Peter F Field, Cheshire CLARKE

The old should yield place to the young after grooming them, but not before. I
think Ken Clarke is the ideal leader. He should take some young members like
David Cameron under his wing and groom them to become the future leaders. David
Davis is placid and will have the same fate as William Hague and IDS.

Sridhar Rao, Bromley, Kent CLARKE / CAMERON

David Davis has a charisma deficit. It has to be Clarke with Cameron if the
Tories are to beat Brown. Full stop!

Simon Gordon CLARKE

Having heard all the speakers, it has to be Ken Clarke, with David Cameron as
his deputy, being a leader for the future. As a lifelong Tory I feel we also
need to have David Davis, Liam Fox, Malcolm Rifkind, as well as William Hague in
a Tory shadow cabinet. What we lack in numbers in comparison to Labour, we more
than make up for in political ability and quality of leadership. Let's unite
behind a first-class shadow cabinet and give New Labour, Blair, Brown et al, the
political hiding they so thoroughly deserve.

Kieran Doran, Dublin FOX

I missed David Cameron's presentation, so I reserve judgment on him. Of the
other four candidates, Liam Fox is without question the only one with sufficient
intellectual substance to be prime minister. He may have appeared mundane to
some. He was not there to provide listeners with entertainment - you can get
that at the Palladium - but to demonstrate to the nation that he has the mental
capacity to grasp the many problems that face the country and its many peoples,
and the world at large. Within the short time limit he addressed many of these
problems, and clearly indicated how, under his leadership, the next Conservative
government would try to deal with them.

Victor Murtough, Boston, Lincolnshire CLARKE

There are a lot of things I don't like about Kenneth Clarke - but he is
associated with many positive aspects of the last Tory government, in a senior
role. Clarke has the gravitas and conviction to offer something to floating
voters which may make them return to the Conservatives. Untried figures are not
going to have the same effect with rhetoric not backed by a track record in
office. Maybe it will take an ex-chancellor to beat an ex-chancellor at the next
general election - starting with an objective comparison of their records.

Simon Coulter CLARKE

As an expatriate (now Canadian) recently returned from the UK I have observed
the clear need for a strong opposition which does, in fact, provide a real
alternative government. This is necessary for a democracy to function properly
and stop a governing party from becoming arrogant. The British Conservative
Party has so far failed to provide this real alternative. Recently a letter
appeared in the Daily Telegraph which exactly captures the attitude of a
majority of the party in stating that the writer felt that they were the
"natural" party to govern and that the voters knew this. Both viewpoints are, of
course, wrong. It does not need a political scientist to know that the bulk of
votes are in the middle and Conservatives can only be elected by appealing to
the centre-Right and centre with some attraction for the centre-Left. The only
leadership candidate likely to achieve this is Kenneth Clarke and he has the
difficult job of persuading his party that those "good" old days are over.

Ken Peatling, Ontario, Canada CLARKE

It has to be Ken Clarke; anyone else will be giving Labour the election on a
plate. Forget the fags, forget the euro, forget his age; he's the only one who's
tough enough to slug it out. Clarke has clout.

Oscar Katz, Floirac, France CAMERON / FOX

As I have been undecided about who I would like as a leader, I have been
watching the speeches at the conference carefully. I have to say that I have
been disappointed with Kenneth Clarke and David Davis. I believe that the best
so far have been David Cameron and Liam Fox. My worry is that by voting for who
I would like best I lose sight of who would be best, in overall electoral terms,
for the party.

J Birtles, Cheshire CLARKE

Like many, I'm a natural conservative. That doesn't mean a flog 'em,
anti-European Right-winger, it means a One Nation, centre-to-Right floating
voter like most people who stopped voting Tory in 1997. Listening to David Davis
and Liam Fox made me groan - can't the Tories see that they are slipping
straight into the Right-wing safety zone yet again? The party are portraying
themselves as obsessed with Europe as usual. It really is their "Clause 4". The
only way that the Tories can show they've moved on and are serious about winning
is going for Ken Clarke. Okay, they'll lose a few of their more extreme
supporters to Ukip (good riddance) - but they'll draw in millions of floating
voters like myself, whose attitudes are intrinsically Conservative.

David Merritt, Herts CLARKE

As a Labour supporter, I support Clarke for Tory leader, even though he will
certainly take votes away from Labour. It's important for the country that Tory
extremists are banished from mainstream politics.

Charles Lowis CAMERON

Clarke would get the electorate's vote, Davis the party's, but no one really
represents true conservative values. Cameron with a flat tax and liberal social
policies while rolling back Brown's benefit state would probably get my vote.

Mark McFarland FOX

At its best the Tory party is a problem-solving, dragon-slaying party. Margaret
Thatcher dealt superbly with the dragon of her time - the unions - but the real
problem now is a social one. The New Labour project has destroyed the family and
tried to replace it in every area with the state. They have also subverted the
very idea of patriotism, pride in our history, genuine faith and anything else
that binds us. The result is a broken society of people that feel no obligation
to each other and increasingly depend on the state. Conservatives can agree on
all sorts of important policies (more prisons, lower taxes etc), but only Liam
Fox seems to have grasped what the fundamental problem facing our nation is.

R Forth, London CAMERON

David Cameron gets my vote as we need a young and mobile leader with some
empathy for the poorer followers of the Tory Party. I could never accept Ken
Clarke as a candidate for leadership after seeing him on the same platform as
Blair and Brown and voting with them for the Euro. I would like to see a leader
who has the nerve to understand the feelings of all the lower-paid members of
society and also to understand the feelings of we expatriate members who have
had their pensions frozen for years because we chose to live in a Commonwealth
land.

J Buchan, Brisbane, Australia CAMERON

I have watched all the conference speeches so far. I am a party member but my
wife isn't and sometimes supports other parties. Our view is: Kenneth Clarke is
too old, too fond of Europe and above all reminds voters of the past - no. David
Davis, a heavyweight frontbencher but not polished enough - no. Sir Malcolm
Rifkind. Who? No. Liam Fox is very likeable but will not capture the centre
ground - no. David Cameron is young, presentable, a good debater and showed guts
in the conference. "New Conservative". He gets our vote.

Christopher Neve, Petersfield, Hampshire CAMERON

I'm for Cameron. It isn't just his fluency, photogenic looks and generational
appeal: he renews and differentiates the brand where all the others evoke and
reaffirm the old brand. Remember that Cameron was the overwhelming and
considered choice of a Newsnight panel which included a majority of non-habitual
Tory voters. Davis in particular baits the IDS trap: he tickles the very zones
in party loyalists where tickling will cause serpigo in the general electorate.

Frank Wintle, London DAVIS / CAMERON

I would vote for either David Davis or David Cameron, both of whom have charisma
and youth on their side, balanced views of the party and clear visions for the
country. Ken Clarke is too old and too European, Liam Fox looks too much like
Gordon Brown and Malcolm Rifkind is a nice chap but no leader-in-waiting.
However, if Brown becomes the next Labour leader, then a monkey on a stick
sporting a blue tie would win the next election.

A Wheatley, Cirencester DAVIS

Has to be Davis. He has clearly done his sums; there is no point in going after
small numbers of under-25 voters or the inner cities - where the party will
always come third to the Liberal Democrats and Labour; the election is to be won
by attracting the over-30s, the suburbs and the countryside. He is not trying to
copy Labour, which is the sure way to defeat, but setting out an alternative to
it.

Greg Wales, London CLARKE

Ken Clarke's speech was that of a seasoned politician who is ready for
leadership. It has been clear to me for some time that he has the broad national
appeal to be a popularly chosen prime minister. The others, ironically, are the
same socially inept and philosophically mean-spirited Tories of yesteryear.

Zia Geelani, London CLARKE

To choose anyone else than Mr Clarke would be a waste of time. Why, here is a
man of conviction who stood up against his own party on many issues, mainly the
Iraq war. And he is right to do so, then and now. He's got the experience to
stand up to the leaders, whoever it is.

Frank Nash CLARKE

I am a Tory party member in my thirties, a family man, extremely concerned about
the environment, sceptical about EU integration and hostile to the euro. In
theory I should be a Cameron supporter, but I can't vote for someone who went
from Eton to Oxford to politics and has never seen or worked in the world
outside. He's a lovely guy - I have friends who know him well - but he needs
more experience. We've had a youthful prime minister concerned with image and
we're heartily sick of it. Bring on the Churchillian Ken Clarke, the perfect
antidote to spin, and let Cameron hone his skills to take over when Ken finishes
his first, and presumably only, term as PM. What the Tories need is a leader,
and beneath him a truly dynamic and inspired hard-hitting team. I think this is
what William Hague has been saying in coded form over the last couple of days.
Come on Hague, back KC and tell Cameron to get behind him, too.

Matthew Hall, Monmouth CAMERON

Whilst Ken Clarke may be the one most feared at the moment by New Labour, one
must remember he will be 70 years of age or thereabouts at the next election.
Given that fact, together with his undiluted and unrepentant enthusiasm for
Europe and the euro, and there is absolutely no chance that the Conservatives
would be elected at the next general election. David Davis is bland and lacking
charisma, displays little enthusiasm and is unable to put across his viewpoint
by word of mouth. He would be eaten alive by Tony Blair and presumably Gordon
Brown as the next prime minister. The Conservative MPs and the party should take
the bold step of missing a generation and selecting David Cameron as the new
leader. Failing that, Liam Fox is the only other alternative. But in any case
the final two names to be put up for the leadership election should be Cameron
and Fox.

D Snowdon, London FOX

Unfortunately I was not able to watch Kenneth Clarke or David Cameron but on the
news clips I found David Cameron's voice singularly lacking in appeal. He needs
to take advice on this, after all, Maggie did early in her premiership. Of David
Davies and Dr Liam Fox there was no contest for me. Liam Fox has the delivery,
gravitas, intelligence and a statesman-like appearance.

I also agreed with everything in his speech, which moved me. He also
demonstrated the sincerity which I find totally lacking every time the present
prime minister pontificates. I can't really believe that old Ken Clarke can be
taken seriously when he has done no work whatsoever for the party while they
have been in opposition.

The reality is, as I see it, that the change in government will come when Gordon
Brown's policies have run their natural course, he has escaped to his new job
and proven to be even more disastrous at that than he has been as a chancellor.

Oppositions don't win elections, governments lose them when their record begins,
at last, to be understood by the masses and disillusionment sets in. This is
inevitable on our present course, but how long it will take remains to be seen.

Richard Avon, North Yate, Bristol NONE OF THE ABOVE

Having heard the rhetoric, my view is unshaken. Cameron, Clarke, Davis? No, no,
no! [Theresa] May, yes!

A Rodriguez, London

Once again, the Tories are being asked to select a leader from a distinctly
uninspiring list of candidates. It is too late to wake up to Ken Clarke, the
nation will not elect a 70-year-old prime minister. This isn't France. David
Davis is limited and too Right-wing, David Cameron could turn out to be anything
from a Tory Tony Blair through to a posher IDS, and Liam Fox doesn't seem to
have the stature, although he does have some interesting ideas.

Andrew Oliver, Brighton

The only one missing for the Tory party leadership battle is Kilroy-Silk.

P J Hood, Basildon

I believe any one of the five candidates would make a good leader of the
opposition. Sadly, none would make a good prime minister. In other words, the
Tory faithful should not waste their votes at a general election. Like many, I
have defected to Ukip, and I would urge others to do the same. In this way, a
clear message would be sent to the Conservative Party, that we want to be
governed by Westminster, not Brussels.

Neil Hannah, Southend-on-Sea

Who gets the nod, matters not a whit. What is immediately required is a strong
policy and unified approach on 1. Immigration 2. Education 3. Health and 4. the
EU. Having watched the Tories trip over themselves over and over again, I am
amazed they don't get it.

Alexandra Taylor, Sydney

I was surprised at how poorly David Davis did in comparison to both Cameron and
Clarke. I have no doubt that Davis would make a fine and punchy home secretary,
but I expect a greater ability to engage an audience from a prime minister. I am
concerned that Clarke may have troubles with the rest of the party, and that
perhaps Cameron is a little young, but I would certainly go a lot further to
help either of those than Mr Davis, who let himself down.

A G Taylor, Heathfield, Sussex

Since analysing the speeches very carefully, David Cameron is streets ahead of
the others and likely to appeal to a larger proportion of the voting public than
any of the others. Ken Clarke is associated with the past - a losing past and
the party must look forward. However, there is one major problem with all the
candidates that are on offer. The best Tory prime minister is not currently at
the conference, but is busy running the Labour Party.

Jules Vowles, Bath

David Cameron sounded the best but it doesn't matter who leads the Tories. Until
they adopt an agenda that addresses the key issues of this century - global
warming, human security and a defence policy that doesn't rely on either the USA
or gross expenditure on weapons - they will continue in their failure to
inspire. They have NO new ideas.

E Dumas, Bushey, Herts

Surely we are all overlooking the one man who's always on form and everybody
likes - self-pitying scousers aside - the mighty Boris Johnson. He's the man for
the job. Marvellous!

Mr Asher, Duntocher

What a difficult choice! I can't see any chance of a Tory revival in the next 20
years, because the membership of the party is not only very old, but they do
seem to be somewhat unintelligent. Otherwise why would the candidates talk to
them as if addressing a primary school assembly? Whoever wins this contest will
have to undo the damage that their baby-talk has done them among the electorate
at large.

Tom Donald, Dumfries

It is as easy as ABC: Anybody But Clarke.

Roger Parkes, Tunbridge Wells

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               19 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 7, 2005, Friday

LETTER: EUROPEAN FLAG AND PLANNING RULES

BYLINE: MARK CROUCHER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 112 words


Sir: Captain Kent (Letters, 4 October) is correct that the Deputy Prime Minister
stated that the EU flag should be treated as a national flag for planning
purposes. However, he failed to enact legislation to make it so.

Despite the best efforts of New Labour to replace parliamentary democracy with
ministerial decree, the words of John Prescott do not carry the force of law; I
suspect that if they did the legal process would prove even more impenetrable
than at present. As for the European Parliament office in London, it continues
to fly a tawdry advertisement in flagrant breach of planning law.

MARK CROUCHER

UK INDEPENDENCE PARTY LONDON SW1

LOAD-DATE: October 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               20 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            October 3, 2005, Monday

PANDORA

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 803 words


Royle Family's Liz is the latest star to fall out with Polanski

Roman Polanski has landed in his fair share of scrapes over the years, but now
he's managed to attract his most fearsome adversary yet: the grande dame of the
British screen, Liz Smith.

Smith, far right, appears to have fallen out in spectacular fashion with the
Oscar-winning film director, right, after landing a cameo in his latest film,
Oliver Twist. She now reckons he's 'unusual' and 'difficult to work with'.

The cause of their falling-out is unclear, but details are expected to feature
heavily in the 83-year-old Smith's autobiography, Our Betty, which is published
early next year.

Friction between the two recently became so great that Smith " star of The Royle
Family " refused to attend the cast screening of Oliver Twist in order to avoid
sharing a room with Polanski.

'I've the greatest admiration and respect for him, but I did find him very
difficult to work with,' Smith said at Thursday's Time Out Eating and Drinking
Awards.

'He's an unusual director. That's all I'll say. I didn't attend the cast showing
of the film in the end. You can read about it in my book.'

Polanski's producer Timothy Burrill says: 'We're very sorry Liz feels this way.
She was perhaps asked to do more than she was able to.'

The Sharon and Terry show won't go on

Mystery surrounds recent reports that Sharon Osbourne has been signed up to
present next month's BBC Children in Need programme.

The supposed appointment " carried in several newspapers last week " came as
news to both Terry Wogan and Gaby Roslin, who (as tradition dictates) have
already been asked to front the show.

In fact, Osbourne, left, has been offered nothing more than a short walk-on part
in the charity programme.

'We suspect Osbourne's publicity machine has been putting it about that she's
headlining as she's got a book to promote,' I'm told.

'In fact, nothing could be further from the case. We've had vague discussions
with her agent about some sort of minor role, but nothing more.'

The BBC has now put out an urgent 'clarification' on the matter: 'Sharon
Osbourne is not co-presenting Children in Need with Terry Wogan this year,' it
reads.

'We are talking to her about doing something, but we are currently talking to
many stars.'

Morrissey to bare all

The actor Neil Morrissey has a colourful extra-curricular CV, having been the
subject of more 'kiss and tell' stories than your average Premiership
footballer.

Splendid, then, to hear that the Men Behaving Badly star has agreed to appear in
a new programme called Stripped in which frisky celebrities are stuck in front
of an audience and quizzed, Monica Lewinsky-style.

'People like me, who've been splashed over the tabloids, just don't care
anymore,' Morrissey, right, tells me. 'There's no question I won't answer, and
you can guess what people are going to ask about. My view is, let's get out
there and tell the truth.'

The show will be broadcast on the Biography Channel, and may make uncomfortable
viewing for (among others) Amanda Holden, with whom Morrissey had an extra-
marital fling a few years back.

Unflagging UKIP

The surreal row over the EU flag outside the European Parliament in Westminster
is still simmering away nicely.

As I revealed last week, the UK Independence Party has discovered that the EP
does not have planning permission for the blue and gold standard to flutter from
its swanky headquarters.

Under UK law, all flags " except national ones " are treated as advertising
material. With this in mind, UKIP made a formal complaint to Westminster
Council, which has confirmed the flag is there illegally.

Planning inspectors will visit shortly, and are likely to demand that the EP
applies for retrospective consent. UKIP say they will object. 'This is a
historic conservation area linked to the British government. As such, this flag
sends out an inappropriate message to the public,' runs their (somewhat bizarre)
argument.

Pietersen stumped by the Blairs

Tony and Cherie Blair never made convincing cricket fans " why should they,
after a decade's allegiance to football? " but the England team's knowledge of
politics is just as shaky.

In their forthcoming book Ashes Victory, an official account of the Summer, the
players recall visiting No 10.

'Kevin Pietersen found the experience somewhat confusing,' it reads. 'He chatted
away with Cherie Blair in his usual upfront fashion, as if he'd known her all
his life. But when she moved on, he turned to Ashley Giles and said: 'Who was
she?"

Apropos of the team's heroic post-victory 'bender', the book adds: 'The PM said
we deserved a day or two on the sauce, and if he says its OK, then its OK.'

TB endorses binge drinking? Naughty!

LOAD-DATE: October 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               21 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 02, 2005, Sunday

Salute Mr Howard

SECTION: Features; Comment; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 369 words

In the past week, there has been much gloating over the rejection of Michael
Howard's proposals to change the rules governing Tory leadership contests. Mr
Howard would be the first to admit that the failure of his proposals is a
disappointment, especially on the eve of his last conference as party leader.
However, it would be a deep injustice if this setback were to eclipse the
tremendous contributions that Mr Howard has made to the Conservative cause.

Apart from a brief period on the backbenches between 1999 and 2001, Mr Howard
has served on the Tory front bench since 1984, when he was made a PPS to the
Solicitor-General. As Home Secretary between 1993 and 1997, he utterly
transformed a job that had traditionally been managerial, and took on the
creaking criminal justice system. His period at the Home Office should be a
model to the next Conservative Government: he showed that Tory principles,
implemented with courage and intellect, can challenge liberal orthodoxy and make
life better for the voters (crime fell by 18 per cent on his watch).

As Tory leader, Mr Howard's achievement was formidable: it is no exaggeration to
say that he saved his party. He inherited a balkanised basketcase, but brought
unity to a party that seemed incapable of such maturity. He surrounded himself
with able advisers, moved the party headquarters and restored professionalism to
Tory politics.

His party, it is true, did not perform as well as he had hoped in this year's
general election: the number of Tory MPs rose from 166 in 2001 to 198. But,
given the shambles Mr Howard inherited and the mere 18 months he was granted in
which to turn round its fortunes, this result was remarkable. He saw off the
threat of UKIP and the Lib Dems' so-called "decapitation" strategy to remove
prominent Conservative MPs. More importantly, he leaves the party in an
electoral position upon which - under new captaincy - it can build confidently.

Mr Howard reminded his colleagues of the importance of clarity and honesty; he
did not, in the end, persuade the public to trust the Tories afresh. But his
example should be an inspiration to his successor. For that, and much else, his
party should salute him this week.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               22 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            October 02, 2005, Sunday

STARS STRUCK EU places illicit ads for itself

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: News; Pg. 012

LENGTH: 267 words

The European Parliament is, as it likes to insist, "a rules-based organisation",
so its office in London was quick to comply last week when, following a
complaint by the UK Independence Party, it was told to haul down the large EU
flag hanging outside its Westminster premises as being in breach of planning
law.

This followed a similar retreat by Wear Valley council in the North-East, which
had been proudly flying the blue and gold "ring of stars" outside its offices,
to honour the fact that its leader, Olive Brown, is a member of the EU's
Committee of the Regions.

On the advice of the North-East campaigner Neil Herron, a local resident, Jim
Tague, pointed out to the council that, under the Town and Country Planning
(Control of Advertisements) Regulation 1992, the EU flag is classified as "an
outdoor advertisement" and requires planning permission. Wear Valley was thus
forced to remove the flag. The parliament has now followed suit.

If similar actions are taken across the country, doubtless few will be more
upset than Kenneth Clarke who, despite his efforts to downplay the "Europe"
issue, is still a vice-president of the European Movement. This Brussels-funded
lobby group urges the flying of the EU flag as widely as possible because, as it
claims on its website, it "advertises the Union as a benevolent, familiar aspect
of our country's identity".

Alas, the website does not advise Europhiles that this may be illegal, and that
to display their "advertisement" without planning permission is viewed in
planning law as no different from putting up a hoarding for Coca-Cola.

LOAD-DATE: October 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                               23 of 27 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 2, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

EU rejection of Turkey 'would boost terrorism'

BYLINE: By Kirsty Buchanan Deputy Political Editor

SECTION: NEWS; 43

LENGTH: 716  words


CRUCIAL talks on Turkey's application to join the EU start today w ith a warning
that failure would "play into the hands of Islamic extremists".

Negotiations have been plunged into crisis by a proposal from Austria to deny
the Muslim nation full-scale membership.

Angry Turkish ministers have vowed to walk away from negotiations if full
membership is not on the table and last night the Muslim Council of Britain
warned that failure to secure a deal would be a huge setback for those seeking
harmony rather than conflict.

Inayat Bunglawala, spokesman for the council said: "Success would send a very
positive signal to the Muslim w orld that we don't believe in a clash of
civilisations, but an alliance of civilisations.

"Failure would play into the hands of extremists within the Islamic community
and the nationalists within Turkey. Islam is Europe's second largest faith group
and and a snub to Turkey would give ammunition to extremists."

Discussions over Turkey's aspiration to join the EU first began more than 40
years ago and were met with European demands for economic reforms and
improvements in human rights.

But though much improvement has taken place and Britain is a firm believer in
Turkish membership there has been growing opposition in Europe - partly because
with its population of 72million Turkey would immediately become one of the
largest EU members.

There are fears that an influx of cheap Turkish labour could flood Europe and
the most recent poll showed 52 per cent opposed Turkey's entry, with only 35 per
cent in favour.

Today's crisis talks in Luxembourg are the first major test of Britain's EU
presidency and were called by Foreign Secretary Jack Straw ahead of the official
negotiations, due to begin tomorrow. Former EU commissioner Chris Patten
yesterday branded Austria's actions "lamentable" and said the collapse of talks
could have "very bad implications".

He said a rejection of Turkey's application would be seen very badly in the
Muslim world and by the many Muslims living in Europe.

He explained: "You hear so much rhetoric about Europe playing a significant role
in the world. What the hell signal do we send to the rest of the world if we
can't accept Turkish accession to the European Union?

"To define Europe today as though it were an introverted, cohesive, medieval
Christian community sends not only awful messages outside, but it actually sends
some pretty dubious messages to the 12million or more Muslims who live within
the European Union."

Britain believes having Turkey in the EU would create a strategic bridge between
Europe and the unstable Middle East regimes. It would also strengthen eastern
borders against the rapidly growing problems of heroin trafficking and human
smuggling.

Diplomats believe rejecting Turkey would only fuel the grievance list of
extremists recruiting the next generation of terrorists.

The country's Prime Minister, Recep Tayyip Erdogan, said: "What do you gain by
adding 99 per cent Muslim Turkey to the EU? You gain a bridge between the EU and
the 1.5billion-strong Islamic world. An alliance of civilisations will start."

But with Britain's chances of resolving the dispute rated no higher than 50-50,
Turkish Foreign Minister Abdullah Gul has warned he will not even travel to
Luxembourg before being sent a copy of the ground rules for negotiations.

Europe Minister Douglas Alexander last night remained cautious about the chances
of success.

He said: "I believe that we will be able to move forward, although there is
clearly a lot of work still to be done."

However, critics warn of the dangers of bolting another country on to a union
already struggling to cope with 25 members.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party, said: "We are the only
British political party which opposes Turkish entry.

"The UK doesn't want or need to be in political union with Turkey, any more than
it wants to be in union with anyone."

Austria's last-minute demands were made in the run-up to today's regional
elections and reflect the unpopularity of Turkish membership in Austria.

They were also a bargaining chip to force membership talks for Vienna's close
ally, Croatia, which has been told it must do more to hand over war criminals to
the UN war crimes tribunal in the Hague before any negotiations over EU
membership can start.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: EUROPEAN DREAM: Chris Patten, left, wants Turkey in the EU. Turkish PM
Recep Tayyip Erdogan promises it would bring 'an alliance of civilisations'

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               24 of 27 DOCUMENTS


                                 Sunday Express

                             October 2, 2005 Sunday
                                U.K. 1st Edition

Blair's EU lays down the laws;
LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: LEADER; 27

LENGTH: 424  words


IT WON'T come as much of a surprise to anyone but yet another pledge from Tony
Blair has turned out to be worthless.

The Prime Minister vowed to reduce EU regulation when Britain took over the
presidency on July 1. But in the three months since he has been in charge the EU
has issued 2,072 legislative instruments, all of which have the force of law in
Britain. That's almost 10 per cent of all the laws passed by the British
Parliament since 1497, when archives began.

While the British Parliament has passed 25,571 public Acts in 500 years, it took
the EU Commission just three months to knock out a whopping 2,072 legislative
instruments. At this rate the EU will surpass the total number of existing
British laws by 2008.

The UK Independence Party is not impressed.

"This sets into perspective the cancellation of 68 EU directives last week, "
says Ukip leader Roger Knapman. "The citizens of Europe are facing a torrent of
restrictive, illiberal legislation, the like of which has never before been
seen. Blair's pledge to reduce EU regulation was in line with almost every other
pledge this Government has made: it was not worth the paper it was written on."

THE latest revelations about David Blunkett's close friendship with a new young
female acquaintance sparked plenty of interest at the Labour conference.

But whatever may be in the Welfare and Pensions Secretary's water these days has
clearly not affected his guide dog Sadie, who turned her nose - and everything
else - up at the whole thing. Surely a pooch of great taste and discernment. . .

Film footage this week showed Tory leadership frontrunner David Davis giving a
speech in the Seventies - and female fans spotted the Shadow Home Secretary's
resemblance to actor Paul Nicholas, star of hit sitcom Just Good Friends.
Meanwhile, Davis has been proving his actionman credentials again. The former
SAS reservist seized the controls on his campaign helicopter the other day.
Luckily, Davis does actually have a pilot's licence - to the relief of staff,
who sat wide-eyed in terror at the back for the entire journey.

TORY treasurers are none too pleased by the security passes worn by delegates at
the Labour conference, attached to ribbons sponsored by politics. co. uk. Could
that be the same website owned by Adam Afriyie, the millionaire Tory MP for
Windsor? The bean counters at Tory HQ are said to be less than chuffed at his
largesse.

JOKE doing the rounds at Labour conference: what has Kate Moss got in common
with the Liberal Democrats? They're both trying to kick Charlie.

LOAD-DATE: November 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS
                              All Rights Reserved

                               25 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 1, 2005, Saturday

Nationalist surge in by-election

BYLINE: Angus Macleod, Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; 34

LENGTH: 312 words


LABOUR breathed a sigh of relief yesterday after it held on to its parliamentary
seat in Livingston in a by-election caused by the death of Robin Cook, the
former Foreign Secretary.

However, its majority fell from the 13,000 achieved by Mr Cook in the general
election in May to one of only 2,680 on Thursday for Jim Devine, Mr Cook's
constituency agent and aide for 23 years. Turnout also fell, from 58 per cent in
May to 38.5 per cent. But the main talking point was a swing of 10.2 per cent to
the Scottish National Party.

If that size of swing were repeated throughout Scotland at the Scottish
Parliament elections in 2007, the SNP would win more than 50 seats at Holyrood,
making it the largest single party and able to form an SNP-led coalition.

However, the nationalists will be disappointed that while Angela Constance,
their candidate, performed well, she did not make the breakthrough that would
have had Labour in Scotland panicking.

In a separate by-election for the Scottish Parliament, the Glasgow Cathcart
constituency won a special and unwanted place in the record books with
Scotland's lowest turnout in a by-election.

Fewer than one in three of the electorate, 31.9 per cent, voted for an MSP to
replace Lord Watson of Invergowrie, who is now serving a prison sentence for
fire-raising. Charles Gordon was elected for Labour with a majority of 2,405.

RESULT

Jim Devine (Lab) 12,319; Angela Constance (SNP) 9,639; Charles Dundas (Liberal
Democrat) 4,362; Gordon Lindhurst (Conservative) 1993; David Robertson (Greens)
529; Steven Nimmo (Scottish Socialists) 407; Peter Adams (UKIP) 108; Melville
Brown (Independent) 55; John Allman (Alliance for Change) 33; Brian Gardner
(Socialist Party of Great Britain) 32.

Labour Majority 2,680

Swing 10.22 Labour to SNP

Electorate 76,376

Turnout 29,477 (38.59 per cent)


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               26 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 1, 2005, Saturday

Relieved Labour survive swing

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 34

LENGTH: 625 words


LABOUR was breathing a huge sigh of relief yesterday after it held on to its
Livingston seat in the by-election caused by the death of Robin Cook.

But the party saw its majority fall sharply from the 13,000 achieved by the
former Foreign Secretary in May's general election to one of only 2,680 for Jim
Devine, Mr Cook's constituency agent and aide for 23 years, and the party's
candidate on Thursday. Turnout also fell dramatically, from 58 per cent in May
to 38.5 per cent.

The main talking point was the swing of 10.2 per cent to the Scottish National
Party, which already has a strong council presence in the area and which had
Labour on the back foot throughout the campaign over the downgrading of the
local hospital.

If that sort of swing was repeated throughout Scotland at the next big electoral
test -the Scottish Parliament elections in 2007 -the SNP would win more than 50
seats at Holyrood, putting it in position to become the largest single party and
able to lead a coalition administration.

But the Nationalists will be disappointed that Angela Constance, their
candidate, did not make the breakthrough that would have had Labour in Scotland
panicking.

The SNP share of the vote was 32.7 per cent, up 11 percentage points on May.

Labour's was 41.8 per cent, down 9.3 per cent on May.

Mr Cook's vote in May held up well because his high profile stance against the
war in Iraq meant that he did not suffer the backlash that Labour in other parts
of Scotland had to endure as voters switched to the Liberal Democrats.

Iraq may still have been a factor in keeping Labour voters away from the
Livingston poll, but all the parties reported that local issues had been a more
dominant campaign theme.

The Liberal Democrats' Charles Dundas came third and kept the 15 per cent share
of the vote his party won in May. The Lib Dems said they were happy with the
result but were privately disappointed that they did not come closer to ousting
the SNP from second place.

Gordon Lindhurst for the Scottish Conservatives polled fewer than 2,000 votes
and was badly squeezed, with his share of the vote dipping from 9 per cent in
May to 6.7 per cent.

Six other candidates, including one from the Scottish Greens and one from the
Scottish Socialists, polled fewer than 1,200 votes between them.

Alex Salmond, the Scottish National Party leader, said that the Livingston
result showed that the Nationalists were the only party challenging Labour in
Scotland and the only party making progress in elections. "On this showing, we
would take 28 first-past-the-post seats at the 2007 Holyrood elections, more
than our target of 20, and put us in the driving seat to win power," he said.

Mr Devine becomes an MP at the age of 52. He backed Mr Cook over Iraq and as a
former senior official with Unison, is now a candidate for the party's "awkward
squad" at Westminster. He attacked his opponents' campaign tactics in raising
concerns about the future of acute services at the town's St John's Hospital. He
added: "I am very, very proud to be going to Westminster to represent the values
of this constituency -full employment, social justice and dignity for our
pensioners. These were Robin's values, these are my values."

LIVINGSTON

RESULT: Jim Devine (Lab) 12,319; Angela Constance (SNP) 9,639; Charles Dundas
(Liberal Democrat) 4,362; Gordon Lindhurst (Conservative) 1,993; David Robertson
(Greens) 529; Steven Nimmo (Scottish Socialists) 407; Peter Adams (UKIP) 108;
Melville Brown (Independent) 55; John Allman (Alliance for Change) 33; Brian
Gardner (Socialist Party of Great Britain) 32.

Labour majority 2,680.

Swing 10.22% Labour to SNP.

Electorate 76,376.

Turnout 29,477 (38.59%).


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               27 of 27 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           October 1, 2005, Saturday

Fewer than one in three turn out

BYLINE: Angus Macleod

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 35

LENGTH: 604 words


GLASGOW CATHCART has won a special and unwanted place in the Scottish electoral
record books as the constituency with the country's lowest- ever turnout in a
by-election.

Only 31.9 per cent, fewer than one in three, of its 48,000 voters bothered to
turn out on Thursday to elect a new MSP to replace Lord Watson of Invergowrie,
the disgraced peer now serving a prison sentence for fire-raising.

The turnout was substantially lower than the previous worst north of the border
- 35.3 in the Falkirk West by-election for Westminster in 1999, and the 38 per
cent who voted in the Holyrood by-election in Glasgow Anniesland in 2000.

In the 2003 Scottish Parliament election, turnout in Cathcart -a constituency
with, by Glasgow standards, a high percentage of professional, owner-occupier
voters -was 45 per cent.

The only bright spot in Glasgow Cathcart was that the turnout was at least 12
points higher than the notorious 19 per cent recorded in Leeds Central in 1999.

The poor turnout overshadowed the result itself, which saw Charles Gordon, the
Labour candidate and a former leader of the city council, hold off the challenge
from the Scottish National Party with some ease.

Mr Gordon won with 5,811 votes, a majority of 2,405 from the SNP's Maire
Whitehead who polled 3,406 votes. The swing from Labour to SNP was 3.66 per cent
and while the SNP increased their share of the vote by over 6 per cent, the
Labour share fell by only 2 per cent.

The Scottish Conservatives came third with 2,306 votes in a seat they used to
hold at Westminster in the 1970s. But the Tories could take comfort from the
fact that Richard Cook, their candidate, saw his share of the vote go up from 13
per cent in 2003 to 15 per cent this time.

Arthur Sanderson, for the Liberal Democrats, was fourth with 1,557 votes but he
also had the consolation of seeing his party's share of the vote rise by 2.3 per
cent to 10.1 per cent. Other candidates who were expected to perform well such
as Pat Lally, the former lord provost of Glasgow, standing as an independent,
and Ronnie Stevenson for the hard-left Scottish Socialist Party, managed fewer
than 1,700 votes between them. The Socialists will be especially disappointed as
they had thought that they would win support in the constituency's sprawling
Castlemilk housing estate. The public fall-out with Tommy Sheridan, their former
leader and most high-profile figure, seems to have alienated supporters.

While Glasgow in recent times has never been a hotbed of voter motivation, all
the parties were taken aback by their failure to attract more interest at the
polling stations. It had been thought that because of the highly unusual
circumstances of the by-election and the presence of some controversial local
issues, such as the future of the infirmary, turnout would at least go as high
as 40 per cent. In reality, the result was a disappointment for the
Nationalists, despite the swing to them from Labour. If that swing was to be
repeated across Scotland in 2007 at the next Scottish Parliament elections, it
would only bring the SNP back to where they were before the 2003 elections when
they lost eight seats.

CATHCART

RESULT: Charles Gordon (Lab) 5,811; Maire Whitehead (SNP) 3,406; Richard Cook
(Conservative) 2,306; Arthur Sanderson (Liberal Democrat) 1,557; Pat Lally
(Independent) 856; Ronnie Stevenson (Scottish Socialist) 819; Chloe Stewart
(Greens) 548; Christopher Creighton (Independent) 59; Bryan McCormack (UKIP) 54.

Labour majority 2,405.

Swing 3.66% from Labour to SNP.

Electorate 48,309.

Turnout: 15,416 (31.91%).


LOAD-DATE: October 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
