
                               1 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 June 30, 2005

GEORGE EUSTACE

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 52 words


FORMER strawberry farmer George Eustace has decided to leave Michael Howard's
Press team and work for Tory hopeful David Cameron in his bid to win the
leadership. What they're keeping mum about is that Eustace was a UK Independence
Party candidate in the European parliamentary elections in 1999. Tricky...


LOAD-DATE: July 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               2 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 28, 2005

Comment & Analysis: If he resists the siren voice of folly, Blair's legacy is
secure: ID cards might yet prove to be the prime minister's greatest undoing

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 24

LENGTH: 1192 words


To be considered an act of folly rather than an act of mere incompetence,
Barbara Tuchman argued, a course of action must have three characteristics: it
must be seen as such by at least some contemporaries; there must be some other
and better course of action available; and the course of action must have been
pursued by a group over more than one generation.

Tuchman's magnificent attack on the march of folly in human affairs was written
during the Vietnam war and her words have been quoted many times since George
Bush embarked on his war on terror and his invasion of Iraq. If she were alive
today, Tuchman would surely be preparing to pen fresh furious pages tonight, as
the president seeks to rally his faltering domestic popularity with summonses of
support for a conflict that, if Donald Rumsfeld is right, will haunt not just
the Bush presidency but the presidency after that, and even the one beyond that.

No nation has a monopoly of folly. Yet it was not Tuchman's words so much as
those of Oscar Wilde that came to mind this weekend when Sir Bob Geldof took the
stage at Glastonbury. "The whole world is watching what we will do," Sir Bob
told the muddy throng, before instructing them to hold hands and so prove that
"once again we have a chance to make a difference". As Wilde said of the death
of Little Nell, one would need a heart of stone not to laugh at such a
preposterous unserious scene.

Yet for a textbook illustra tion of the place of folly in British politics, it
is unnecessary to look further than the government's preoccupation with the
identity cards legislation that returns to the Commons today. That there is a
case for identity cards is no more in doubt than that there is a case for the
invasion of Iraq or for closing your eyes and wishing for poverty to disappear.
The problem - as in these other cases - is that the case is simply not strong
enough and that the government has not made it.

It is difficult for an independent minded person to argue with the approach put
forward by David Davis on this subject when the government first began to paint
itself into a corner in support of an ambitious biometric ID card system more
than a year ago. Any proposal, Davis argued, had to be measured against four
criteria. Will it work to achieve the stated goals? Is the government capable of
introducing such a system? Is it cost effective? And can civil liberties be
safeguarded?

With the best will in the world, it is hard to answer yes to any, never mind
all, of these questions as things stand. The primary purpose of the legislation
- other than to prove to the public that Labour governments are tough - remains
changeable and obscure. The government's track record on major IT-dependent
projects is dismal, as the shambles over tax credits showed last week. The costs
are alarmingly uncertain, as yesterday's LSE report confirmed. And the civil
liberties issues highlighted by the information commissioner this week remain
unsolved.

All of which brings us to a key stage in the evolution of any policy of folly.
Tuchman rightly described this stage as a government's tendency to act
stubbornly and perversely against its own best interests when the opportunity to
avoid doing so exists. Such an opportunity presented itself to the government
when the old ID cards bill fell at the end of the last parliament. There would
have been no better chance to deploy the government's useful new friend, the
period of reflection.

But folly does not allow governments to take the sensible option. Instead of
slowing the process, the government felt pressured -though by whom is a mystery
- to quicken it. At his press conference yesterday, folly drove Tony Blair to
describe ID cards as an idea whose time has come, when that is the exact
opposite of the case.

There are many articulate voices in this country which would argue that the
prime modern example of folly in our politics is the engagement with the
European Union and its predecessors. Once again, using Tuchman's three criteria,
there is certainly a case to be made. Many contemporaries, from right and left,
have argued against Europe. There was no lack of alternatives, ranging from a
free trade association like Norway's to the more defiant Atlanticism of some
Tories or the Little Englandism of Ukip. And the European engagement policy has
certainly been promoted over the span of many generations.

Whether these arguments carry the day is another matter. For all the sometimes
hysterical arguments against the EU, as well as the genuine scepticism on
individual aspects of the project, most people have preferred to stick with the
European option most of the time, including in the 1975 referendum. Even today,
when the EU is reeling from its recent blows, it is not even close to
self-evident that it would be better to abandon the whole project altogether,
and there is nothing approaching a majority for doing so.

This not to say that there are no flashes of folly over Europe. In his speech to
the European parliament last week, Blair trod a delicate line. It was mostly an
excellent speech, spelling out the undesirability and impracticality of an
extreme response to the EU's difficulties. There is no more future in the
nations of Europe simply abandoning their structures of economic, social and
political cooperation than there is them all huddling together pretending that
their structures do not need to change. The only question about change in Europe
is not whether to change, but how and when. No folly there.

Yet at the same time, Blair is clearly seized with the sense that he commands a
large moment in the EU's history. In his time as prime minister, he suggested at
the end of his Brussels speech, Blair had found that "the hard part is not
taking the decision, it is spotting when it has to be taken". Some challenges
can only be managed. Others must be confronted and overcome. This, Blair
concluded, "is such a moment of decision for Europe".

There speaks the siren voice of folly. Not because Blair is wrong about the
importance of this moment for Europe; he isn't. But if Blair thinks he can do
more than manage - perhaps aggressively manage - part of this critical passage
in the EU's development, he risks provoking one or both of the extreme responses
that he rightly wants Europe to avoid. There is a limit to what he can achieve
in Europe in the time that is left to him. Time is not on his side. Beware
folly.

The great irony is that we may nevertheless be watching the achievement of
Blair's most lasting victory at home. He has rarely articulated the modern
balance between economic efficiency and social justice better than he did in
Brussels last week. It has never been clearer than now that his government,
despite all its failings, is successfully securing a viable new definition of
that fundamental relationship at the heart of British public life. If Blair can
resist folly better in this third term than he did in his second - not least on
ID cards - he will secure his domestic legacy far more firmly than most people
have yet grasped.

m.kettle@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             June 28, 2005, Tuesday

DEAR MIRROR: TO THE POINT

BYLINE: LES ARNOTT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 28 words


AS the Tories increased their vote in the South Staffs by-election, where did
UKIP's good showing come from? Disillusioned Labour voters!

Les Arnott, Sheffield

LOAD-DATE: June 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                               4 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 27, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Serve, volley, disillusion in SW19: Wimbledon has become a
bland conspiracy of disappointment

BYLINE: Peter Preston:

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 946 words


The question, as usual, is whether the centre court was half full or empty?
Enter (from Dunblane by way of Barcelona training school) a new British sporting
prodigy amid exceptional ecstasy. Advantage UK. Then wham, bang! No-thank-you
man. And the fourth richest nation in the world, mounting the richest tennis
tournament of the lot, has nobody left to play for a second week. Deuce.

We can all do the Braveheart bit, of course. Sean Connery mugging like fury in
the stands. ("Vote Andy, vote Nat.") Every available Olympic gold medallist on
patriotic show for the cameras in full Chariots of Fire mode. The Scot family
Murray blanketing the airwaves: not just supermum Judy with her tremulous smile,
but dad Willie with his clenched fists and pent-up belligerence (and never
forget dear old Gramps back at home, minding the shop).

Failure doesn't come much better than this. Yet failure is still the operative
word.

That's not Andrew Murray's fault. He's an odd mix of Eminem and John Gordon
Sinclair, and you can see his father in him when he snarls, but he plays a mean,
moody game of tennis. He's part of our sporting life for the next few years.
What he surely isn't, alas, is a future Wimbledon champion.

Three reasons. One is the way he lost on Saturday, just as he lost at Queen's
before: with a trudging ache of exhaustion. If you're tired and cramping after
two sets on a cool June afternoon, then you'll never stay the course through to
a final. He's only 18, they say: still a growing lad. But Maria Sharapova is
only 18, and defending champion, and Rafael Nadal, the French open champion, was
18 when he began his Roland Garros run a few weeks ago.

Only 18? Maybe a fitness drive would help. Maybe Judy's favoured preparation
diet - "Celebrity Love Island and a Pizza Express delivery of bruschetta and
chicken pizza", she tells Telegraph readers - could be sharpened up. (Her
"chocolate cream frappuccino, a cross between a milk shake and a knickerbocker
glory" sounds like a cholesterol panic attack waiting to happen.) Nevertheless:
if you're tired at 18, you'll probably be exhausted at 23.

But fatigue, remember, is much more than a twinge in the thigh. Fatigue is the
killing weight of expectation; and that burden is another good reason for
fearing the worst. The real enemy, yet again, is Wimbledon itself.

A Croat, Chilean or Ukrainian may come to the All England Club in obscurity and
prosper far from home. Any modestly promising British competitor, by contrast,
is an instant victim of that vacuous middle-class hysteria honed over decades by
the BBC. Goodbye Tiger Tim with your impossible dream: hello Murraymania on
Murray Mount (aka Henman Hill) as you strive to make a Murray mint.

The stands fill with strange creatures daubed in red, white and blue: a Ukip
convention on the terraces at West Ham. It's as though, in this genteel world of
strawberries and corporate cream, there's a licence to turn yob for the
duration, to howl and heave in orgasmic nationalism.

Is it like that in Paris or New York? A little: but nowhere near so intense.
Even George Bush's super-patriot crowds can't compete with our decades of stored
frustration. And that, in turn, seems to drain the energy out of the chosen
gladiators. Time to stop sweating and settle. It is enough, apparently, to be
there for a few seasons, to make a headline or three, to be recognised at the
gate by an autograph groupie. Whereupon the after-life beckons.

If you're Andrew Castle, you sit on the GMTV sofa with Fiona. If you're Chris
Bailey or Sam Smith or John Lloyd, there's a seat in some TV box and a pay
cheque waiting. If you're Jeremy Bates, you're in charge of administering
things. The name of this game isn't winning. It is, rather, making a brief
splash then joining the commentariat. There is no penalty for failure. How long
will it be before Henman inherits his microphone and committee seat?

Wimbledon, in short, has become a bland conspiracy of guaranteed
disappointments. It expects too much and settles for too little. It demands only
a brief spell of striving on the circuit before cash and comfort arrive.
Russians may be hungry and driven as they make it from the depths of Siberia,
but Surbiton offers no such incentives. The great nostrum of New Labour
political life - that extra investment equals success - doesn't operate here.
Each year the All England ploughs its fat profits into the British game: and
each year there's nothing to show for it at the grassroots. Catalonia does it
better, as Andy Murray found out.

And the third reason not to get too hopeful about the young blade of Dunblane?
That's Wimbledon again, the surface reason. Murray might do pretty well on clay:
it fits the slicing, probing rhythm of his game. He may make a name on the
predictable Deco Turf of Flushing Meadows one day.

But grass is not his natural environment, just as it is not the natural
environment of most of the world's greatest players. Two weeks of warming up,
two weeks in south London, and that's your grass-court season over. Anomaly
time. The players who love Wimbledon most - like Henman - never quite muster the
strength to succeed elsewhere. The players who Wimbledon's crowds now love most
- like Murray - will do best hundreds of miles from SW19.

It's a dream we all ought to dub impossible now, a familiar serve, volley and
grunt of disillusion. But never lose hope entirely. Could Murray win the French
Open? Yes, if he knocks off the pizzas and crappuccino. Yes, if he toils some
more at Barca. Advantage L'Ecosse. That would be a knickerbocker worth its
weight in glory.

p.preston@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               5 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 June 26, 2005

GPs' cure for obesity in children? Move the clocks forward

BYLINE: RACHEL ELLIS

SECTION: FB; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 413 words


DOCTORS are recommending a bizarre 'cure' for child obesity putting the clocks
forward.

The GPs want Britain to abandon Greenwich Mean Time and, controversially, fall
in line with the rest of Europe giving more daylight after school for children
to play in.

The medics will argue at this week's British Medical Association's conference in
Manchester that by putting the clocks forward one hour in winter and two in
summer, children will burn off more fat.

And they claim lighter evenings would also prevent some of the accidents which
kill or seriously injure 1,800 pedestrians under the age of 16 every year.

Dr Andrew Green, a GP from Hedon, East Yorkshire, who is proposing the change,
said: 'There are two major public health problems in this country: the epidemic
of childhood obesity and the problem of pedestrian road traffic accidents.
Despite this, we arrange our clocks so that for a large part of the year it is
dark when children come home from school and they either sit inside and get fat
or go outside and get run over.

'If we changed our clocks to match the European time zone throughout the year,
we would have an extra hour of daylight in the evenings. It wouldn't make a lot
of difference in the summer or winter, but we would really see the benefits in
spring and autumn at present it is warm enough for the children to go outside
but too dark to play.' If Britain became part of the central European time zone,
it would be in line with 20 European countries which are one hour ahead of GMT.
In the spring, the clocks would still move forward an hour, putting Britain two
hours ahead of GMT.

But this would leave large parts of Scotland in darkness until 10am during the
winter forcing children to go to school before it gets light.

The plan has angered Eurosceptics who claim there is no evidence that Britain
would be any better off by ditching GMT.

And other opponents, including farmers and motoring groups, claim the move would
create a divided Britain.

A UK Independence Party spokesman said: 'Any advantages of changing our time
zone are outweighed by disadvantages, mainly for people in the North of England
and Scotland who would find themselves in hours of darkness.' . BST, then known
as Daylight Saving, was introduced in 1916 to help farmers to produce more food
for lean and hungry wartime Britons. From 1968 to 1971, BST remained in force
throughout the year, but the experiment was abandoned in 1972.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               6 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 26, 2005

EURO MPS GRAB £30M OF YOUR CASH FOR PENSIONS

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 324 words


MORE than £30million of taxpayers money has been grabbed by Euro MPs to plunge
straight into their pension funds.

The smash and grab emerged as MEPs last week voted themselves stonking
retirement funds - without any contributions.

One disgusted MEP last night told the Sunday Express it was being described in
Brussels as "the last squeal of the pigs as they are ripped from the trough".

The unseemly attempt to line their own pockets shows the level of corruption and
cronyism that Tony Blair will be up against when he takes over the Presidency of
the EU this Friday, with calls to reform the Brussels budget.

The MEPs' pension scheme is currently 42million Euros in deficit - around
£30million. But the members are now planning to hand themselves a windfall from
funds not spent on buildings and staff. Suspiciously, the amount of the
underspend on buildings equals the hole in the pension fund.

A vote to prevent the unseemly money grab was overwhelmingly rejected by greedy
MEPs by 434 votes to 100. Only the SNP, UK Independence Party MEPs, one Liberal
Democrat, six Labour members, two Greens and the Welsh Nationalists voted to
prevent the appropriation. The vast majority of Labour and Tory MEPs voted with
their wallets.

MEPs were earlier hailed for their moderation when they finally backed reforms
of their gargantuan expenses regime last week, a move seen as the end of the
notorious gravy train.

In future, they will only be paid the actual price of train tickets, rather than
claim a flat rate allowance that allows MEPs to be refunded for a business-class
air ticket even if they fly economy or travel by car.

But that headline-grabbing move smothered coverage of the fact that the
financial package now means that the European Parliament, funded by taxpayers,
will pay their pension contributions which in the case of UK members have
equalled £520 a month off their £56,000 annual salary.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               7 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 26, 2005

FREE PENSIONS FOR EURO MPS? ALL THOSE IN FAVOUR SAY OINK!

BYLINE: By Tim Shipman

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. , 11

LENGTH: 631 words


MORE THAN £30million of taxpayers' money has been grabbed by Euro MPs to plunge
straight into their pension funds. The astonishing money grab emerged as MEPs
last week voted to give themselves massive retirement funds without having to
make any contributions.

One disgusted MEP last night told the Sunday Express that the double whammy was
being described in Brussels as "the last squeal of the pigs as they are ripped
from the trough".

The unseemly attempt to line their own pockets shows the level of corruption and
cronyism that Tony Blair will be up against when he takes over the presidency of
the EU on Friday with calls to reform the Brussels budget.

The MEPs' pension scheme is currently in deficit £30million. But the members are
now planning to hand themselves a windfall from funds that were not spent on
buildings and staff.

Suspiciously, the amount of the underspend on buildings was exactly equal to the
hole in the pension fund, giving rise to the suspicion that Parliamentary
managers deliberately engineered the deal to line their own pockets.

A vote to prevent the unseemly money grab was overwhelmingly rejected by MEPs by
434 votes to 100.

Only the UK Independence Party, one Liberal Democrat, six Labour members, two
Greens and the Welsh and Scottish Nationalists voted to prevent the
appropriation of the £30million. The large majority of Labour and Tories voted
with their wallets.

MEPs were earlier hailed for their moderation when they finally backed reforms
of their gargantuan expenses regime last week, a move seen as the end of the
notorious gravy train.

In future they will only be paid the actual price of rail and train tickets,
rather than claim a flat rate allowance that allows MEPs to be refunded for a
business-class air ticket even if they fly economy or travel by car.

But that headline-grabbing move smothered coverage of the fact that the
financial package now means the European Parliament, funded by taxpayers, will
pay their pension contributions.

At present, individual states decide on rules for MEPs' pensions and Britain
diverts 10 per cent of its members' salaries into the Westminster-based
parliamentary pension system.

That means MEPs will now be better off than MPs in Westminster because while the
new deal limits their salary to £56,000 - compared with £59,000 in London - they
will not have to make pension contributions of £520 a month as the EU budget
will take care of it.

MEPs can also pay into a secondary fund. It is this that is in deficit. They
qualify for the pension when they turn 63, even if they have long since left the
Parliament, which divides its time between Brussels and Strasbourg.

THE PENSIONS regime was already a murky area. Some MEPs have avoided the
voluntary contribution by claiming it as part of their office expenses.

Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party in Brussels, told the Sunday
Express: "I applaud the decision to reform expenses but the behaviour on
pensions is extraordinary. People seem to have fallen for the view that the
reform package is all marvellous.

"MEPs voted overwhelmingly to reject the amendment which would have prevented
taxpayers' money being used to plug the gap in the pension fund. Politicians
shouldn't be able to use taxpayers' money to bail out their pension scheme."

The pension moves will be agreed by member states on Thursday in the last act of
the Luxembourg presidency.

Reformers hope they will not be blocked, as similar plans were during the Irish
presidency. The plans are due to come into effect in 2009.

British taxpayers will also be contributing to a huge pay hike for many other
MEPs around Europe, whose salaries used to be the same as those of their
national parliaments.

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               8 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 26, 2005

BRIEFLY. . .

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 69

LENGTH: 279 words


IFthe Tories increased their vote in South Staffs and Labour's vote plummeted,
who voted to give Ukip its best ever by-election showing? Answer: disillusioned
Labour voters! Those who think Ukip support is all from ex-Tories are sadly
misinformed.

Les Arnott, Sheffield DESPITE vowing not to, I watched a couple of episodes of
the latest Big Brother. Where do the producers find these creatures with no
ambition other than to be on TV? This year's intake is without doubt the most
ghastly to date.

Stuart Keeping, London ANOTHER weekend of Glastonbury is upon us. Hurrah!

Now we have to put up with blanket coverage from the Beeb, fronted by the ageing
student that is Jo Whiley. As it is a music concert, surely the Beeb could limit
coverage to radio?

Jennifer Brand, Morecambe, Lancs HOW can the awful ITV1 Jerry Springer Show be
called a talk show when all the low-life guests just shout, scream, fight and
point? It's all too much to digest at breakfast.

Come back, Trisha, all is forgiven.

Christopher Lickorish, Leamington Spa, Warwicks WELL done to Bob Geldof and Bono
for working on the Live 8 event. I wish I was rich enough to care about Africa
or the environment.

Dave Graham, Norwich ITwas obvious Tim Henman was going to lose early on at
Wimbledon.

Until we fundamentally change our ideas of winning, future failure is certain.
You have to believe you can win, before you can actually do so.

Anthony Jones, Colchester, Essex WHO is this Faria Alam and why does she think
it acceptable to gain wealth from sexual indiscretion?

Everyone involved, including SvenGoran Eriksson, should be sacked.

Amy Lawson, Cambridge

LOAD-DATE: June 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               9 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 25, 2005, Saturday

MP calls for review of election delays

BYLINE: By George Jones

SECTION: News Pg. 008

LENGTH: 206 words

SIR Patrick Cormack, re-elected early yesterday as Conservative MP for South
Staffordshire seven weeks after the rest of his colleagues, called for a review
of the rules governing delayed polls.

The election in his constituency was postponed from May 5 after the death of the
Liberal Democrat candidate, Jo Harrison, six days before polling day.

Sir Patrick held on to the seat with an 8,847 majority compared with 6,881 in
2001.

The swing since 2001 was 9.1 per cent from Labour to the Tories. Malcolm Hurst,
the Ukip candidate, polled more than 10 per cent and saved his pounds 500
deposit.  Turnout was 38 per cent, compared with 60 per cent at the 2001 general
election.  The result takes the number of Tory MPs to 198.

It was the first general election contest to be delayed in such circumstances
for more than 60 years.

Sir Patrick, 66, said he would be contacting the Electoral Commission about
reviewing the current rules, which meant that an election was automatically
postponed if one of candidates died before polling day.

He said in his victory speech: "One of the candidates got less than 100 votes
tonight. If he had died yesterday we would have had to go through it all over
again. That must be nonsense."

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               10 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 25, 2005

And the winner is ... David

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 331 words


The prospect that the next leader of the Conservative party will be called David
is growing by the day, Tory MPs agreed last night, but David Davis' almost
certain victory has not yet been conceded by supporters of David Cameron and
David Willetts.

As rival candidacies fail to generate enthusiasm Mr Davis' campaign is gaining
momentum and he is wooing supporters with less abrasive tactics than those
associated with him in the past.

In the last week Mr Davis' so-called "velvet bandwagon" has attracted such
unpredicted recruits as MPs Ian Taylor and Damian Green on the left of the
party. As significant is the apparent failure of potential rivals such as the
former foreign secretary, Sir Malcolm Rifkind, to gather support.

A familiar name was added to the parliamentary party's number early yesterday
when the veteran backbencher, Sir Patrick Cormack, won his general election
victory in suburban South Staffordshire with an increased majority.

The poll was delayed by the sudden death of the Liberal Democrat candidate Jo
Harrison and Thursday's low turnout - 37.2% - saw Sir Patrick's majority
increase from 6,881 to 8,847. Michael Howard now leads a party of 198 MPs to
Labour's 355, though there are also 90 minority party MPs, 62 of them Lib Dems.

Many Tory MPs are resisting the inevitability of Mr Davis, but have failed to
find an alternative.

Mr Cameron, 38, and 18 months older than the education secretary, Ruth Kelly,
whom he shadows, has a core of high IQ support, but rivals predict he is on
track to win no more than 40 votes. "There is a growing mood that the next
leader of the Conservative party will be called David," one of the party's big
players said last night. Others concurred.

* Staffordshire South result:

Sir Patrick Cormack (C) 13,343; Paul Kalinauckas (Lab) 4,496; Jo Crotty (Lib
Dem) 3,540; Malcolm Hurst (Ukip) 2,675; Garry Bushell (Eng Dem) 643; Kate
Spohrer (Green) 437

Interview George Osborne, page 32


LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               11 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 June 24, 2005

Modernise or you fail, Blair warns the EU

BYLINE: PAUL EASTHAM

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 896 words


TONY BLAIR issued an impassioned warning yesterday that the EU could collapse if
it fails to heed the 'wakeup' call from voters who rejected its planned
constitution.

He told Euro MPs not to kid themselves it was 'business as usual' after the
resounding defeat in Dutch and French referendums.

His 'change or die' message came in a speech to the European Parliament
outlining his plans for Britain's six-month stint holding the presidency of
Europe which begins on July 1.

Many of the 700 Euro MPs had predicted the Prime Minister would receive a deeply
hostile reception. In fact, there was as much cheering as heckling.

Mr Blair wrong-footed his opponents by telling hecklers: 'I am a passionate
pro-European. I always have been. My first vote was in 1975 in the British
referendum on membership and I voted yes.' But he said Europe faced a 'crisis in
political leadership' in the urgent battle to win back the support of ordinary
people. In a reference to the Biblical story of the Israelites destroying
Jericho, he warned that the people were 'blowing trumpets around the city walls'
of Brussels.

Mr Blair argued the EU would fail 'on a grand scale' if it did not leave the
'comfort zone' of existing policies and face up to globalisation.

His opponents had predicted a strident address demanding the EU switches to
ruthless market capitalism.

But Mr Blair insisted he wanted to modernise Europe's lavish system of workers'
protection, not scrap it. He wanted a gradual switch away from farm subsidies,
not 'overnight abolition'. Above all, he wanted to reinvigorate Europe, not
'wreck' it.

As a result his 30-minute address was punctuated far more often by cross-party
applause than barracking, and it ended with a warm seated ovation. But there was
angry muttering afterwards from the outgoing holders of the presidency,
Luxembourg. They privately mocked Mr Blair's messianic tone and accused him of
trying to be all things to all men.

They pointed to the Premier's insistence that he believed in Europe as a
'political project' and would never accept simply an economic market.

He even claimed the French and Dutch had not actually disliked the constitution,
but had delivered a wider protest vote at the state of affairs in Europe.

Tories also derided his enthusiasm for reform. Spokesman Graham Brady said:
'Only a fortnight ago he was giving precisely the opposite message by supporting
a constitution that would have locked Europe into more regulation, more central
control and more economic failure.' Mr Blair's speech appeared self-consciously
to echo Baroness Thatcher's Bruges speech in which she questioned Europe's
direction. But he also set out to 'demolish' the ' caricature' of the UK as 'in
the grip of some extreme Anglo-Saxon market philosophy that tramples on the poor
and disadvantaged'.

Mr Blair complained that he had sat through innumerable meetings at the end of
which EU communiques claimed to be ' reconnecting Europe to the people.'

But, he asked: 'Are we?' In a sideswipe at French leader Jacques Chirac he said
the debate should not be conducted by ' trading insults'. Mr Blair went on:
'This is not a time to accuse those who want Europe to change of betraying
Europe. It is a time to recognise that only by change will Europe recover its
strength, its relevance, its idealism and its support amongst the people.

'It is not a crisis of political institutions, it is a crisis of political
leadership. It is time to give ourselves a reality check.

'The people are blowing the trumpets around the city walls.

Are we listening? Have we the political will to go out and meet them so that
they regard our leadership as part of the solution, not the problem?' He
dismissed Mr Chirac's claim that he was intransigent, saying he was the only
British Prime Minister to have put the UK rebate on the negotiating table.

Mr Blair went on: 'I believe in Europe as a political project. I believe in
Europe with a strong and caring social dimension. I would never accept a Europe
that was simply an economic market.' He said it was a 'moment of decision' for
Europe, adding: 'The people of Europe are speaking to us.

They are posing the questions.

They are wanting our leadership.

It is time we gave it to them.

'In every crisis there is an opportunity-There is one here for Europe now, if we
have the courage to take it.' As he sat down he was attacked by Nigel Farage of
the UK Independence Party, who sarcastically welcomed his conversion to EU
reform and said he seemed to have been 'mugged by reality.'

But the only sustained attack came from Daniel Cohn-Bendit, former student
revolutionary and now leader of the Green MEPs. He recalled that Mr Blair had
defended the farm subsidy deal in 2002, which 'ensured that your dukes continue
to get subsidies'.

Mr Blair said later he thought people now had a clearer understanding of the
British position.

He hoped that would strengthen Britain's hand in brokering as tight a budget as
possible' for the community.

The tone of his speech contrasted sharply with that of Gordon Brown the previous
day in which the Chancellor aggressively declared that the dream of a European
federal state was dead, and ended any prospect of Britain joining the euro in
the near future.

Comment Page 14 p.eastham@dailymail.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               12 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 June 24, 2005

BLAIR PUTS BOOT INTO BRUSSELS; PM WARNS EURO MPS: EU VE GOT TO CHANGE

BYLINE: by MACER HALL

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 302 words


TONY Blair launched a blistering attack on the failing European Union yesterday.

The Prime Minister read the riot act to Euro-MPs about where the EU is going
wrong.

His dramatic 40-minute speech to the European Parliament was greeted with jeers
and catcalls - but by the end, many Euro-MPs ended up cheering.

In an astonishing showdown, he told them: "It is time to give ourselves a
reality check - to receive the wake-up call."

Mr Blair's overnight conversion to Eurobashing is being seen in Brussels as an
astonishing turnaround.

Even Euro-MPs from the UK Independence Party praised the PM for duffing up the
Eurocrats and UKIP's Nigel Farage branded Mr Blair as "a Europhile who has been
mugged by reality".

Mr Blair said Europe desperately needs to reform and warned that failure could
lead to the spread of Nazi-style parties.

He said: "The people of Europe are speaking to us.

They are wanting our leadership. It is time we gave it to them.

"But are we listening?"

Insiders say his tirade was one of the most straight-talking speeches the
European Parliament had ever heard.

Mr Blair wants the EU to ditch its old ways of cushy subsidies and
jobs-for-life.

He says Europe needs more free markets to compete with the economic threat of
China and India.

The EU has been at war since French voters kicked out the proposed EU
Constitution.

Last night, even the Tories praised Mr Blair's speech.

Shadow Europe Minister Graham Brady said:"We're delighted to hear Tony Blair
talking about the urgent need for reform.

"What we want to see is evidence that Mr Blair really wants powers to come back
to Britain."

It would cost about £76m to hold a referendum on the EU constitution, Baroness
Ashton told the House of Lords. But there are no plans to do so.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               13 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 24, 2005, Friday

Sketch Trumpet power? Or is Tony blowing his own

BYLINE: by Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News Pg. 004

LENGTH: 579 words

TONY Blair sounded like a brilliant but bogus evangelist when he addressed the
European Parliament. He spoke very cleverly, but nothing he said rang quite
true.

In his most arresting phrase, the Prime Minister warned his European
congregation: "The people are blowing the trumpets round the city walls."

Some of us started to feel a bit nervous. We looked around at the walls of the
vast, circular parliament chamber and wondered whether they were about to
collapse.

But try as we might, we could not hear the people blowing their trumpets above
the sound of Mr Blair blowing his own trumpet. The Prime Minister made a
stupendous effort to get the members of the European Parliament to trust him,
but did not succeed. He sounded like a member of an extremist sect - the dreaded
Anglo-Saxons - who was constantly trying to prove that, like most of his
listeners, he is in fact just an ordinary, decent European integrationist. Mr
Blair kept on reciting passages from the European creed: "I believe in Europe as
a political project. I believe in Europe with a strong and caring social
dimension." But the more he said things like that, the more he sounded as if he
was protesting too much.

When he rose to speak for a second time, at the end of the debate, he ventured
one piety too many: "I have always tried to reach consensus at a European
level."

That statement produced groans of disbelief. Some of his listeners were thinking
of the consensus he tried to reach on the Iraq war, while others will have had
Mr Blair's obdurate behaviour at the recent Luxembourg summit in mind. However
much our Prime Minister disclaims any tendency to strike Anglo-Saxon attitudes,
in Brussels he is regarded as the crazed disciple of George Bush and Margaret
Thatcher.

Like the adaptable fellow he is, the Prime Minister quickly rephrased what he
had just said: "Well obviously I haven't reached consensus on that statement."
But as so often when he tries too hard to win round a hostile audience, his
charm was degenerating into smarm.

Mr Blair has an acute ear for his own effects and realised he was in danger of
undermining himself by sounding sycophantic, so he toughened his tone again and
threatened his audience with hell, or at least with the UK Independence Party.
The Prime Minister declared that if MEPs did not let him "reinvigorate" the EU
by reforming it, parties like Ukip would instead seize the chance to wreck the
whole project.

This was a clever way to dissociate himself from Nigel Farage, a Ukip MEP who
had earlier praised Mr Blair for saying "the same sort of thing Ukip's been
saying for the last 10 years... You're a europhile who's been mugged by
reality."

Daniel Cohn-Bendit, who sprang to fame in the student riots in Paris in 1968 and
is now a German Green MEP, attacked Mr Blair for doing an agricultural deal
which "ensured that your dukes could continue to get subsidies" and also
involved vast payments to Britain's largest sugar company, Tate & Lyle. Mr Blair
struck back with a smiling put-down, telling Mr Cohn-Bendit: "It was good to see
you after all these years. A very long time ago I used to listen to your
speeches, and now you listen to mine.

"History will determine whether that is progress or not."

History will also determine whether anyone in Brussels paid serious heed to Mr
Blair's call on them to reform.

To them he is Judas, or at best Pontius Pilate: a man who pretends to be
virtuous but is going to betray them.

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               14 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 June 24, 2005

BLAIR SAVAGES EU'S LEADERS IN CALL FOR REFORM

BYLINE: By Patrick O'Flynn Political Editor

SECTION: U.K. 3rd Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 332 words


TONY Blair took his new Eurosceptic agenda into hostile territory yesterday as
he unleashed a devastating attack on the European Union.

In a speech to Euro MPs in Brussels, the Prime Minister said Europe is facing "a
crisis of political leadership".

And he braved bouts of barracking to berate EU countries for high unemployment,
accusing them of falling backwards in the world prosperity league.

Mr Blair said: "Some have suggested I want to abandon Europe's social model. But
what type of social model is it that has 20 million unemployed in Europe,
productivity rates falling behind those of the USA, that is allowing more
science graduates to be produced by India than Europe?

"It is time to give ourselves a reality check. To receive the wake-up call. The
people are blowing the trumpets round the city walls. Are we listening?

"Have we the political will to go out and meet them so that they regard our
leadership as part of the solution not the problem?"

Mr Blair said the French and Dutch rejected the European Constitution because of
a "wider and deeper discontent with the state of affairs in Europe. It is not a
crisis of political institutions, it is a crisis of political leadership".

Mr Blair also called for a modern EU budget that by 2015 was not spending 40 per
cent of its money subsidising farmers. He insisted he would try to get a deal on
the EU's future finances during his six month Presidency which begins next
month.

Tory spokesman on Europe Graham Brady said: "We're delighted to hear Tony Blair
talking about the urgent need for reform of the EU. But only a fortnight ago he
was giving precisely the opposite message by supporting a constitution that
would have locked Europe into more regulation, more central control and more
economic failure.

"What we want to see is evidence that Mr Blair really wants powers to come back
to Britain."

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage said Mr Blair was "a Europhile who has been mugged by
reality".

LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               15 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 24, 2005

National roundup: Election: BNP ousted from London council seat

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 147 words


The racist British National party has lost its only council seat in London after
a cross-party campaign in Barking, east London.

Labour's Warren Northover captured the Goresbrook ward after a campaign to stop
a BNP push. The Liberal Democrats and Greens withdrew their candidates to give
Labour a clear run.

On a 33% turnout, Labour collected 1,227 votes while the BNP candidate Laurence
Rustem won only 791. UKIP, with 216 votes, pushed the Conservatives, with 167
votes, into fourth.

The decision of the Tories and Ukip to fight meaningful campaigns in a ward they
were unlikely to win may have sapped the BNP vote.

The byelection came after the BNP councillor, Daniel Kelley, stepped down,
citing ill health and having struggled to make any impact on the authority.

Another byelection in the borough, in Becontree on July 14, is expected to be
close.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               16 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 24, 2005

Tories increase majority in general election's final vote

BYLINE: Michael White and Sam Jones

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 13

LENGTH: 440 words


The last unresolved battle of the May 5 general election was decided last night
when the Conservatives increased their majority in the safe seat of South
Staffordshire.

Voting was delayed after the death of the Liberal Democrat candidate, Jo
Harrison, nullified the election campaign of the Tory incumbent, Sir Patrick
Cormack.

Last night, Sir Patrick, who has been the MP for South Staffordshire since 1974,
was returned to the seat after polling 13,343 votes.

Despite a low turnout, he saw his majority rise from 6,881 to 8,847. The Labour
candidate, Paul Kalinauckas, took 4,496 votes, and the Lib Dems' Jo Crotty won
3,540.

It was also announced yesterday that the first byelection of the new parliament
- caused by the death from can cer of Liberal Democrat MP Patsy Calton - will
take place in Cheadle on July 14.

Voters there will be asked next month to elect Mark Hunter, Lib Dem leader of
their local authority - Stockport borough council - as the new MP, almost
certainly opposed by Stephen Day, the former Conservative incumbent whom Mrs
Calton pushed out by just 33 votes in 2001. The parliamentary writ was moved
yesterday.

Both men are well known locally, but neither commands what Lib Dem strategists
believe was the personal vote that Mrs Calton, another local ex-councillor,
gained by dint of attentive constituency work and the sympathy caused by her
long fight against the illness which finally killed her days after she took her
Commons oath from a wheelchair.

It gave her a 4,020 majority over Mr Day, 8.47% of the vote, on May 5. Lib Dems
say most of that was personal to the MP whose memorial service in Stockport's St
George's Church last week drew 1,000 people, including Charles Kennedy.

But turnout is likely to be lower and more rightwing fringe candidates are
expected for the byelection. That may not help the Tory vote.

Mr Day has not been formally nominated, but his telephone canvassing is said to
have started and leaflets have been spotted in Cheadle.

The area has become interestingly marginal in recent years. In 1966 Cheadle was
won for the then Liberals by Michael Winstanley.

After boundary changes, the Tories won back long-term control of the area in
October 1974. They lost neighbouring Hazel Grove in 1997, but retained the
shrunken Cheadle seat until 2001.

Not having defended a byelection since 1988 the Lib Dems are cautious.

Results

Sir Patrick Cormack

Conservative 13,343

Paul Kalinauckas

Labour 4,496

Jo Crotty

Lib Dem 3,540

Malcolm Hurst

Ukip 2,675

Turnout 25,635 (37.28%)

Swing 9.1% Labour to Conservative


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               17 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 24, 2005, Friday

Take a reality check - in Slovenian

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: Features; 31

LENGTH: 546 words


It was a vintage performance. Tony Blair loves having something new to believe
in and it shows. He may have begun his "I have a Eurovision" speech a bit
tentatively, for the Brussels Parliament has all the intimacy of an aircraft
hangar, but soon he was in full flow.

By the end, his hands and arms swooped like gulls over the sea. It was as if he
was dancing with himself. That amount of swooping (not to mention swaying) is
rare for Mr Blair.

In Britain he is much more controlled, and his movements jerkier. Perhaps he was
simply carried away. "I am a passionate European!" he cried, his words
disappearing into the vast space around him. This was met by boos. He claimed
not to mind. In fact, he welcomed them. "It's called demo-cracy," he said. Well,
no, it's called being booed but it certainly sounds better if you call it
democracy.

They didn't boo with any feeling again. Instead the clapping became more and
more frequent. The day before, MEPs had been furious with what one called this
"Blair Witch project". Britain had wrecked the weekend's summit and could not
get away with it.

"Everyone said they were going to give him hell," one MEP said. "But they
didn't."

Well, they didn't give him heaven either. There was applause, but it wasn't the
heavy thwacks heard when an encore is being demanded. It was more than polite,
however, for Mr Blair is hard to resist when he's in one of his "I'm a Believer"
phases.

He had to have written much of the speech himself. There was, for instance, this
unique passage: "It's time to give ourselves a reality check. To receive the
wake-up call. The people are blowing the trumpets around the city walls."

Upon hearing this, people started clasping their earphones with urgency. The
translators looked a bit stunned, not unlike Hansard reporters during a John
Prescott speech, for you can just imagine what all those wake-up calls and
trumpets sounded like after being whipped into Slovenian.

It is fun to watch the translators. They sit in 21 glass booths around the
chamber. The Italian ones gesticulate as if they are singing opera instead of
talking about the Common Agricultural Policy.

The speaking arrangements are brutal. "The gentleman has two minutes," the
president, who is like our Speaker but without the ridiculous outfit, says.

MEPs are not allowed overtime. Someone tried this yesterday. "I've found the
button now, you're going to have to shut up!" the president said. Then he pulled
the plug. Daniel Cohn-Bendit, of the Greens, had more minutes than most. He was
on the barricades in Paris in 1968 and makes everything sound terribly exciting.
"The gauntlet has been thrown down!" he shouted. "The Hundred Years' War is
behind us."

(The French journalist next to me didn't think so.) Every once in a while, he
whipped himself into a mini-frenzy to say: "Welcome to the club, Tony!" Tony,
for his part, stayed in his chair more than three hours. It must be a record.
There was a particularly dicey moment when the man from UKIP claimed him as a
blood brother: "It all sounds like the same thing UKIP has been saying. You are
a Europhile who has been mugged by reality!"

Mr Blair looked appalled but he'd better get used to it, for it's going to be a
wild ride.


LOAD-DATE: June 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               18 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 23, 2005

Parties unite to try to drive BNP off London council

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 505 words


Little has distinguished Warren Northover from any other backroom activist
during his five years in the Labour Party. He has attended meetings, stuck down
envelopes, handed out leaflets and canvassed for two MPs. But today the
silver-haired taxi driver becomes the key figure in a cross-party effort to
resist the drive into London of the racist British National Party and to stop it
gaining a foothold in the south-east.

In today's byelection in the Goresbrook ward of Barking and Dagenham, Mr
Northover, 70, will try to wrest back the BNP's only council seat in the
capital.

It was relinquished when Daniel Kelley, who won the ward last September, stood
down citing ill health. But the extremists see the retention of Goresbrook as
key to a wider plan to capture a block of seats at next year's council
elections. They have the springboard of having secured 16.9% per cent of the
vote in Barking at the general election and the knowledge that 10 council seats
could fall with just a 5% swing.

But other parties are determined to stop them. Both the Liberal Democrats and
the Greens have withdrawn their candidates to give Mr Northover a better chance,
and the Tories have fought a vigorous campaign. The seat will also be contested
by UKIP, which could drain votes away from the far right.

In recognition of the importance being accorded to the contest, the Home Office
minister Hazel Blears visited the ward on Monday. The campaign has been assisted
by a coalition of anti-racist activists, church groups and trades unions.

After an hour spent canvassing amongst the housing estate cul-de-sacs, Mr
Northover said: "No one can tell what the result will be but the signs are
encouraging. We are meeting people who voted BNP as a protest but are coming
back to us. What can the BNP do in an area like this? What did the last
councillor do?"

Indeed, BNP councillor Mr Kelley told a newspaper last year: "There's meetings
that go right over my head and there's little point in me being there. I'm
wasting my time."

The BNP's new candidate is Laurence Rustem, who is half Turkish. His campaign
has continued to circulate the claim that African families are being induced to
move to Barking with grants of £50,000.

The party has also been accused of trying to buy votes by giving voters a free
campaign DVD, the Barking Patriot.

Though keen to show the electorate a respectable face, the extremists have the
sort of problems that mainstream parties rarely encounter.

They go to the polls with their leader Nick Griffin and founding chairman John
Tyndall facing trial on criminal charges of using words or behaviour intended or
likely to stir up racial hatred.

They also campaign with the knowledge that following a landmark ruling by the
Standards Board for England, other politicians can refer to them as "Nazis".

The decision came after the BNP complained about comments made by Liberal
Democrat councillor Gavin Stollar of Epping Forest Council.

guardian.co.uk/politics/farright


LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               19 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 23, 2005

Henman v Tursunov - live!

LENGTH: 3072 words



HIGHLIGHT: Game-by-game report: Follow all the rallies, cries of 'Come on Tim'
and fistpumps as they happen with Sean Ingle.


Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 3-2 After losing the first
point of the game, Henman grits his Dracula teeth and wins the next four points
to hold. "I know what Siobhan means," says Diarmuid Deeney. "My Irish name is
corrected by spellcheckers to Dairymaid."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 2-2 You keep expecting
Tursunov's bludgeoning serve and thumping forehand to malfunction. But while the
Russian has a scare when Henman pulls it back to deuce, his big serve again
saves the day again. "How do you find the time to read all those emails, watch
the game of tennis and write such informative updates?" asks Jon Cox. "Is there
a team with you?" Nope, it's just me, Jon. Not for the first time, I'm flying
solo.

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 2-1 An easy hold for Henman.
He looked like he was struggling in the fourth set, but he seems fine now.
Tiger's also changed drinks from Coke to an orange-looking concoction, which may
explain things. "Like Alastair has problems," says Siobhan Cavanagh. "Predictive
text wants to call me Phobia until I finally hit the mno key. And spellcheckers
want to call me Soybean."

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 1-1 More bad language from
Heman, who shouts a word not disimiliar to duck after yet another Tursunov ace.
The umpire decides not to act, however, and the Russian holds to 30. "The
predictive text also neatly converts pints into shots," points out Simon Denn
(and about 70 others).

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 1-0 Tursunov, to use a
horrible cliche, is a real gunslinger - when he's hot you feel he can't miss.
When he's not ... well, that game was the perfect example. Shots went into the
crowd, the net, everywhere except the court. "Pint, when typed into a text
message, must first go through riot, which seems apposite," says Tom Chivers.
"Pints, meanwhile, pops up as pious, by way of contrast. And I need hardly tell
you the corollary of aunt."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6 Tursunov has the added
advantage of serving with the new balls - more speed, more zip, basically - and
having gone 30-40 down it comes to his aid as he hits a 134mph serve out wide.
The Russian saves another breakpoint before another huge ace seals the set.
Brilliant stuff, this. Meanwhile, more strange spelling corrections. "Predictive
text tries to write 'poisoned' instead of 'Smirnoff', perhaps not unwisely,"
says Mark Rees.

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-5 Another double fault -
Henman's fifth of the day - has Centre Court muttering and tutting at 30-30,
before a thumping serve and a brilliant volley saves the day. "Why is Tim
drinking Coke, anyway?" wonders Csaba Abrahall. "Surely on a day like this, he
should be drinking some of that clever fluid-replacing stuff all sportsmen drink
these days, not some caffeine-filled diuretic? No wonder he isn't very good. And
when did they all stop drinking Robinson's Barley Water?"

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 2-5 The British No1 is bouncing up
and down like a prizefighter, and there's plenty more fighting talk from Henman
(this time directed to the umpire) when Tursunov's serve goes long. Hawkeye
suggests he was right, but the umpire lets the point stand and Tursunov holds to
30. "Borderline totally irrelevant, but I notice that when 'kiss' is entered
into predictive text it comes out as "lips", which I find strangely pleasing,"
says Owen Wilson.

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 2-4 Despite an incredible running
forehand winner from Tursunov, Henman holds to 15. "More likely Tim Henman,
parliamentary candidate, would constantly place in the last four at
bye-elections whilst conspicuously failing to win," suggests Dominic Firth. "
Ukip it is then."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-4 Twice Henman has break-back
points and twce Tursunov responds with meaty aces. And just for good measure he
hits two further aces to hold. The British No1 has had 19 breakpoints and only
converted four of them.

"What is the focus on Tim's background all about today?" asks John Shepherd.
"Leave the posh fellow alone. Do the liberal minority out there not realise that
pictures of Mr Henman Sr. in his RAF baseball cap are seen around the world are
generating millions for the tourism and stereotypical film industry spawned by
Richard Curtis and his brilliantly observed social comedies, set in West
London?"

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-3 After two love service games,
Henman is broken again. .Game-by-game reporter dons anorak. That's four out of
six breakpoints that the Russian has converted now. Meanwhile this from Thomas
Moran. "Impressed as I am by Ms Crabtree's knowledge of olden-day comics, isn't
Henman called Tiger for the same 'hilarious' reason that Robin Hood's mate John
is called 'Little'?" he suggests.

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-2 After a game with even fewer
rallies than at a uber-cool mountain biking race (Does that work?), Tursunov
holds easily. "If Henman ever does write the autobiography that Richard Rouse is
dreading then 'You get the coke but they take away your umbrella' is what it
should be called," suggests Chris Clough. "Alternatively, T-shirts should be
made bearing that legend in time for Tim's next match. It could become the 'you
cannot be serious' for a new generation. On a separate note, does anyone know
what odds I could get on Tim spending his post-retirement years as the Tory MP
for a leafy constituency in Surrey or Sussex?" Well?

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-1 Another blink-and-you'll miss
it game, which Henman wins to love. "This is hardly going to set the world on
fire, but MS Word insists that my name, Alistair, is in fact spelled Aligator,
and tries to autocorrect it through and through," says Alistair (nee Aligator)
Richardson. "Shame it hasn't caused the hilarious mix-ups that would have made
this a truly great anecdote."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 0-1 Tursunov holds comfortably.
"Why Tiger Tim?" asks Judith Crabtree. "Well, Tiger Tim's weekly was a comic
which ran from the 1920s through until paper shortages in the war killed it off.
The front page story was about Mrs Bruin's school, which was attended by Tiger
Tim and his mates - Giraffe, Elephant etc. I can't remember their names, but as
a small child I thought the annual that my father passed on to us was very
funny! My guess is that the nickname Tiger (often given to Tims) derives from
that." So now you know...

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 In a blur Henman holds to love,
finishing the set with an ace. "Re: Henman's moaning. The benefits of breeding
and privilege are coming to the fore," suggests Bruce Jackson. "Once he's got
his coke AND umbrella, he'll effortlessly switch into whinging that he's got no
strawberries when the undeserving oiks in the crowd have. Proud to be British
and all that."

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 5-3 Henman is now having a pop at the
umpire after he didn't spot an obvious netcord. In fairness, that time he had a
point. Finally, after another tense game, full of deuces and breakpoints,
Tursunov sprays his forehand into the net and Henman breaks again. Meanwhile my
brother Martin, who usually spends his time keeping criminals on our streets,
writes: "Spot the south-west London living, 'no need for a car' journalist.
Cooper, Sean, not Coupar."

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 4-3 Loud groans at Centre Court after
Henman double faults (his second of the game) to immediately drop his serve.
Meanwhile at the changeover Tiger Tim is moaning again. "It's one or the other,"
he shouts to no one in particular. "You get the Coke but they take away your
umbrella." Ah diddums.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 4-2 Henman's outpouring of anger at the
changeover is followed by a loud "Jeeeez!" after he misses an easy winner. But
the British No1 soon has something to smile about as Tursunov's forehand
misfires and he breaks to go 4-2 ahead. "Spellcheck in Microsoft Word wants to
change Henman into He-man," says Ben Jackson."Do your readers know of more
inappropriate spelling correction?"

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 3-2 This is still rather scrappy. But
with Tursunov's return misfiring like a broken down Mini Coupar, Henman holds.
At the change of ends, Henman decides to have a pop at the ball girls: "Tell
them to get their heads out of their arses and find me a Coke," he growls.
Charming.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 2-2 Big, big serves from Tursunov - he's
now getting 57% of his first serves in at an average of 127mph. He also looks
the fresher of the two players. Meanwhile, Richard Whitehouse wants to know:
"Why is Henman nicknamed Tiger Tim? He doesn't sound like a tiger and certainly
doesn't look like a tiger - unless, of course, he undergoes a serious
transformation in make-up before he plays and is actually hiding orange and
black stripes, some whiskers and a rather large tail."

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 2-1 As soon as Henman goes 0-15 down,
you can feel the nervous tension on Centre Court. But the blue-rinse brigade
needn't have worried: Henman takes the next four points to hold.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 1-1 Tursunov holds with ease. "If Tim
Henman doesn't like books I assume that he won't be writing an autobiography
with lots of pictures that retails for £18.99 and will come out just before
Christmas the year he retires," says Richard Rouse. "Thank heavens for that."

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 1-0 After watching his serve go into
meltdown in the second set, Tiger Tim holds comfortable to 15. "The charity is
the Sobell House Hospice," says John McClure. "They provide care for people with
life-limiting illness and support for their families. It's a very worth cause.
And I'm off to the deed poll website."

Second set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6 Sorry for the delay, technical problems.
Meanwhile no such worries for Tursunov, who holds to love to win the second set.
"I'm not Tortoise Tim's biggest fan, but no one complained about Bjorn Borg
being an ice-cold emotionless Swede, did they?" points Rob Mansfield. "There is
the small matter of Borg actually winning titles, of course."

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 2-5 Another Henman service game, another
struggle. From 0-30 down he recovers to 40-30, only for the Russian to win the
next three points. Oh dear oh dear oh dear. "Which charity is John McClure
supporting?" asks Luke Williams. "If it's a good 'un, and if the offer is
verifiable, I'll put up £50 notes." Top work, Luke. Anyone else?

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 2-4 Tursunov, who is averaging 126mph on
his first serve, is now surging with confidence - witness the drive volley that
seals a comfortable service hold. "Tim Henman once did an interview where he
said he didn't like books because they were boring," fumes Tom Wooton. "All of
them?"

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 2-3 Henman holds to 30, sealing the game
with a thumping ace down the middle. "Did no one else notice that Andrew
Murray's fist pump when he won a point was exactly the same as Tim's?" asks
David from Waterloo. "Henman's legacy methinks!"

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 1-3 "Come on!" cries Henman as he
recovers from 40-15 down to have a breakpoint. The inevitable screams follow but
it does little good as Tursunov wins the next two points. Henman fights back to
earn another chance, but Tursunov produces an amazing drop volley to hold. The
British No1's response? A loud "Fucccccccccccccccccck!" - but amazingly the
umpire does nothing. Meanwhile John McClure is back. "I'm doing all 136 Olympic
sports", he writes. "If your avid readers can contribute a grand to the charity
I'm doing it for, I'll change my name and enter next year's London marathon as
Troy McClure." Well, any takers?

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 1-2 Silence at Centre Court as Henman
misses four first serves and Tursunov breaks. This is an ugly, messy game of
tennis and the British No1 is in a real fight. Meanwhile more Henman talk. "Tell
that Yank, game six, that she's talking rubbish," says Colin Tunnicliffe.
"Murray showed more passion in one match than Tiger has in a decade. We like
passion and commitment not lifeless robotics. Especially not from someone with a
privileged background. Having said all this I still want him to win, especially
if he's playing a Yank or an Aussie."

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 1-1 Henman speeds into a 15-40 lead, but
then Tursunov hits four 130mph service boomers to hold. "Is there no way you
could turn that picture of Henman on you're your webpage into an animated gif
with his fist pumping?" asks Jascha Elliott. "It could help us all imagine we're
really there." Our team of top Monster-Munch eating techies are working on it as
we speak, Jascha.

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 1-0 Another easy hold for Henman, who
.famous last words alert. looks in complete control. "Can we start a campaign to
raise money for John McClure to change his name to Troy by deed poll?" asks
Adrian Bradley. "He should think of all the celebrity endorsements he can do.
"Hi, you might remember me from infomercials such as "Tiger's done it again'".
Well, if anyone knows how to set up an online poll, I'll post the link here...

First set: Tursunov* 3-6 Henman A horrible missed smash from Tursunov opens the
door for Henman. And while the British No1 feeble fluffs the first of this three
set points, Tursunov sends the next one long and Tiger Tim deservedly goes a set
up. Meanwhile the debate about his qualities continues to rage. "Most people who
slag off Henman are probably so fat they can't even turn their remotes over, let
alone be able to claim to be in the top ten of their field on the planet,"
claims Nick Hood. "Henman is actually a rare winner in a nation of losers."

First set: Tursunov 3-5 Henman* Better serving from Henman, who - for a change -
holds comfortably. "I think more people would get behind 'Henners' (c)
http://www.timhenman.org/) if it wasn't for the gaggle of shrieking housewives
bedecked in Union Jack hats and flags who emerge from the Home Counties
Conservative clubs for two weeks a year purely to yell 'Come on, Tim!' at an
annoyingly loud volume," suggests Chris Clough. "That, and the fist-clenching,
obviously."

First set: Tursunov* 3-4 Henman Already the "Henman! .clap, clap, clap., Henman!
.clap! clap! clap!." chanting is rolling around Centre Court. It doesn't help
the British No1 there, as Tursunov holds to 30. Meanwhile this from Dean. "I
wish Rusedski was as consistent at tennis as he was at using his towel after
every single point," he writes. "I felt for those poor ballboys/boygirls who
were put on towel duty yesterday."

First set: Tursunov 2-4 Henman* After four deuces, a breakpoint, and some
uncharacteristic scowling "Commme On!" at the Centre Crowd (think Delia Smith
sans vino), Henman holds.

Meanwhile Tracey Graham is sticking up for Tiger Tim. "As an American, I don't
get why so many British fans' hate Henman to the extent where they root for him
to lose. It's rather sick. I wonder how you all will feel 10 years or so from
now if Andy Murray fails to live up to his promise? For several years now I've
been rooting for Henman to win Wimbledon -- if only to publicly tell all those
who ridicule him where they can stuff it. The guy has been ranked in the top 10
in the world for something like seven straight years - yet many of you act like
he's a total failure. In fact, many of you seem to prefer that your sporting
teams or players lose. Again, it's weird, if not downright masochistic." Welcome
to the British psyche, Tracey.

First set: Tursunov* 2-3 Henman I'd be lying if I said this was scintillating
feast of tennis - both men are making mistakes, and finding the net more times
than Andrei Shevchenko. However Tursunov holds on, despite facing five
breakpoints in his last two service games. Meanwhile John McClure (see earlier
email is back). "I'm no relation to the Simpson's star, but I have been offered
money to name my first-born 'Troy'," he writes, sadly declining to mention just
how much.

First set: Tursunov 1-3 Henman* Henman holds easily to 30. "Has anyone every
checked out Tim's website?" asks Damian O'Boyle. "He enjoys 'soccer' (no
comment) apparently, but doesn't like to get involved in potentially injury
inducing challenges as he's 'always got his next imminent loss to focus on'
(slightly edited)."

First set: Tursunov* 1-2 Henman With Tursunov suffering a severe case of Centre
Court nerves, Henman races into a 15-40 merely by keeping the ball in court.
Then, suddenly, the Russian's game kicks in: two forehand winners and a
much-improved serve gets him on the scoreboard. "I also hate Tiger Tim," says
Helen Trotter, who adds somewhat unnecessarily: "To be honest, the only reason
I'm following the tennis live is because the OBO commentary on the cricket
doesn't start until 2.30." You certainly know how to make a man feel wanted,
Helen...

First set: Tursunov 0-2 Henman* An easy service hold from Henman, who's already
displaying the sort of natural superiority you'd expect from someone born into a
privileged upper-class home.

First set: Tursunov* 0-1 Henman A nervous opening from Tursunov. He double
faults, hits two forehands halfway down the net and Henman happily takes
advantage to break. Listen to those roars! Meanwhile the messages of support for
the British No1 are already flying in. "I know it's of little consequence to
you, but I have to go on the record and say that I, for one, cannot wait to see
Tiger Tim exit from this fine tournament," says McGillavary. "He's the sporting
equivalent of a wet weekend in Hull. Please, please let it happen today."

We're off! Tursunov to serve. Meanwhile John McClure (who may or may not be
related to the fictional Simpson's character, Troy) is in fighting mood: "Hurry
up, Ingle," he says. "Step away from the strawberries and get with it." Will do,
John. Once they've finished warming up.

Preamble: Tim Henman really should win this at a canter. After all, Dmitry
Tursanov is ranked 138 in the world and is about as confident on grass as Neil
from the Young Ones (although admittedly he did beat an out-of-sorts Marat Safin
last year). Still, this is Tiger Tim and anything could happen...

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               20 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 23, 2005

Henman crashes out in five

LENGTH: 3734 words



HIGHLIGHT: Game-by-game report: Follow all the rallies, cries of 'Come on Tim'
and fistpumps as they happen with Sean Ingle.


Fifth set: Henman loses to Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-8 That's it, it's all
over. The Russian seals the match to 15 with, predictably enough, an ace.
Henman's chances of ever winning Wimbledon surely look over. Not that James
Longhurt agrees. "Over here at epolitix.com we reckon Tim will undoubetly become
MP for Wimbledon," he says. "It was a recent Tory gain and an ageing Tiger would
probably be a shoo-in." I wouldn't bet on it James after his recent showings at
SW19. Thanks for all your emails, sorry I couldn't use them all. Cheers, Sean

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-7 The deathly silence says
it all: Tursunov breaks and will now serve for the match for a second time
(there are no tie-breaks in the final set). At 15-40 Henman had a lucky break
when a serve that was two inches out was called good, but Tursunov came right
back to break. "Is Tim's dad wearing his vulgar baseball cap again?" asks Andy
Tabberer. "Standards are certainly slipping in the Henman house. What next?
Reebok trainers?"

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-6 It's a feverish, almost
post-Diana death atmosphere on Centre Court. The Union Jacks are out, the cries
of "Come on Tim" are long and lusty. But Tursunov is having none of it, and two
big serves - where were they at 5-4, eh? - help take the game to 15. Meanwhile
more predictive texting mistakes. "A friend of mine once received a text saying
'I'm in Debenhams, shopping for white slaves,'" says Thomas Bowtell. "The sender
may have meant plates."

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-5 The adrenaline has kicked
in and Henman is going for everything: second serves, short forehands you name
it. And when Tursunov looks to have hit a scorching cross-court winner the
British No1 makes a amazing get to hold. "Office betting here has Tiger Tim down
for being MP for Henley," says Karl Ratzo, "although they'd elect a Tory pot
plant if there was no one else."

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 5-5 Incredible stuff! Henman
at 40-15 down looks like he's going out, but then Tursunov starts to tighten and
sprays shot after shot out. A double fault at deuce gives Henman advantage and
he breaks back with an easy volley.

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 4-5 Disaster for Henman! Two
sensational Tursunov returns gives the Russian a 0-30 lead, and another
punishing forehand at 15-40 (after a Henman ace and double fault) brings
Tursunov one game from victory. Meanwhile this from Andrew Banks. "On
TimHenman.org, Tim writes. 'I've always been fairly calm on the court, because
that's how I feel like I'm going to play my best tennis' Gosh - nothing like a
good spin doctoring is there."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 4-4 Clever tactics from
Henman, who chips and charges twice on second serve to good effect. But
Tursunov's big serve pulls him through to 30. "My fiancee Anna becomes 'bomb'
with predictive text and she has a short fuse in real life," says Joseph Hind.
"Isn't life strange?"

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 4-3 A huge stroke of luck for
Henman at 30-15 as his serve, clearly long, isn't picked up by Cyclops and is
called an ace. At least that makes him smile for the first time today... "I feel
sorry for Tiger Tim," says Lee Tombs. "How many other Brits have consistently
been one of the ten best performers in a major world sport for the last five
years? "It's not his fault he's dull, posh, and never going to win anything
important."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 3-3 Another audible "furrrk"
from Henman as he sends a makeable forehand into the Royal Box. Then, after a
Tursunov double fault brings it to 40-30, he barks "Towel", with some menace, to
a poor ball girl. No more Mr Nice Guy, clearly. "If you type in Dave into a
mobile, you first get Date, then Fate, then Dave," suggests David Ingham.
"Surely a clincher with the ladies?" Hmmm. Wouldn't count on it.

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 3-2 After losing the first
point of the game, Henman grits his Dracula teeth and wins the next four points
to hold. "I know what Siobhan means," says Diarmuid Deeney. "My Irish name is
corrected by spellcheckers to Dairymaid."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 2-2 You keep expecting
Tursunov's bludgeoning serve and thumping forehand to malfunction. But while the
Russian has a scare when Henman pulls it back to deuce, his big serve again
saves the day again. "How do you find the time to read all those emails, watch
the game of tennis and write such informative updates?" asks Jon Cox. "Is there
a team with you?" Nope, it's just me, Jon. Not for the first time, I'm flying
solo.

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 2-1 An easy hold for Henman.
He looked like he was struggling in the fourth set, but he seems fine now.
Tiger's also changed drinks from Coke to an orange-looking concoction, which may
explain things. "Like Alastair has problems," says Siobhan Cavanagh. "Predictive
text wants to call me Phobia until I finally hit the mno key. And spellcheckers
want to call me Soybean."

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 1-1 More bad language from
Heman, who shouts a word not disimiliar to duck after yet another Tursunov ace.
The umpire decides not to act, however, and the Russian holds to 30. "The
predictive text also neatly converts pints into shots," points out Simon Denn
(and about 70 others).

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 1-0 Tursunov, to use a
horrible cliche, is a real gunslinger - when he's hot you feel he can't miss.
When he's not ... well, that game was the perfect example. Shots went into the
crowd, the net, everywhere except the court. "Pint, when typed into a text
message, must first go through riot, which seems apposite," says Tom Chivers.
"Pints, meanwhile, pops up as pious, by way of contrast. And I need hardly tell
you the corollary of aunt."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6 Tursunov has the added
advantage of serving with the new balls - more speed, more zip, basically - and
having gone 30-40 down it comes to his aid as he hits a 134mph serve out wide.
The Russian saves another breakpoint before another huge ace seals the set.
Brilliant stuff, this. Meanwhile, more strange spelling corrections. "Predictive
text tries to write 'poisoned' instead of 'Smirnoff', perhaps not unwisely,"
says Mark Rees.

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-5 Another double fault -
Henman's fifth of the day - has Centre Court muttering and tutting at 30-30,
before a thumping serve and a brilliant volley saves the day. "Why is Tim
drinking Coke, anyway?" wonders Csaba Abrahall. "Surely on a day like this, he
should be drinking some of that clever fluid-replacing stuff all sportsmen drink
these days, not some caffeine-filled diuretic? No wonder he isn't very good. And
when did they all stop drinking Robinson's Barley Water?"

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 2-5 The British No1 is bouncing up
and down like a prizefighter, and there's plenty more fighting talk from Henman
(this time directed to the umpire) when Tursunov's serve goes long. Hawkeye
suggests he was right, but the umpire lets the point stand and Tursunov holds to
30. "Borderline totally irrelevant, but I notice that when 'kiss' is entered
into predictive text it comes out as "lips", which I find strangely pleasing,"
says Owen Wilson.

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 2-4 Despite an incredible running
forehand winner from Tursunov, Henman holds to 15. "More likely Tim Henman,
parliamentary candidate, would constantly place in the last four at
bye-elections whilst conspicuously failing to win," suggests Dominic Firth. "
Ukip it is then."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-4 Twice Henman has break-back
points and twce Tursunov responds with meaty aces. And just for good measure he
hits two further aces to hold. The British No1 has had 19 breakpoints and only
converted four of them.

"What is the focus on Tim's background all about today?" asks John Shepherd.
"Leave the posh fellow alone. Do the liberal minority out there not realise that
pictures of Mr Henman Sr. in his RAF baseball cap are seen around the world are
generating millions for the tourism and stereotypical film industry spawned by
Richard Curtis and his brilliantly observed social comedies, set in West
London?"

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-3 After two love service games,
Henman is broken again. .Game-by-game reporter dons anorak. That's four out of
six breakpoints that the Russian has converted now. Meanwhile this from Thomas
Moran. "Impressed as I am by Ms Crabtree's knowledge of olden-day comics, isn't
Henman called Tiger for the same 'hilarious' reason that Robin Hood's mate John
is called 'Little'?" he suggests.

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-2 After a game with even fewer
rallies than at a uber-cool mountain biking race (Does that work?), Tursunov
holds easily. "If Henman ever does write the autobiography that Richard Rouse is
dreading then 'You get the coke but they take away your umbrella' is what it
should be called," suggests Chris Clough. "Alternatively, T-shirts should be
made bearing that legend in time for Tim's next match. It could become the 'you
cannot be serious' for a new generation. On a separate note, does anyone know
what odds I could get on Tim spending his post-retirement years as the Tory MP
for a leafy constituency in Surrey or Sussex?" Well?

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-1 Another blink-and-you'll miss
it game, which Henman wins to love. "This is hardly going to set the world on
fire, but MS Word insists that my name, Alistair, is in fact spelled Aligator,
and tries to autocorrect it through and through," says Alistair (nee Aligator)
Richardson. "Shame it hasn't caused the hilarious mix-ups that would have made
this a truly great anecdote."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 0-1 Tursunov holds comfortably.
"Why Tiger Tim?" asks Judith Crabtree. "Well, Tiger Tim's weekly was a comic
which ran from the 1920s through until paper shortages in the war killed it off.
The front page story was about Mrs Bruin's school, which was attended by Tiger
Tim and his mates - Giraffe, Elephant etc. I can't remember their names, but as
a small child I thought the annual that my father passed on to us was very
funny! My guess is that the nickname Tiger (often given to Tims) derives from
that." So now you know...

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 In a blur Henman holds to love,
finishing the set with an ace. "Re: Henman's moaning. The benefits of breeding
and privilege are coming to the fore," suggests Bruce Jackson. "Once he's got
his coke AND umbrella, he'll effortlessly switch into whinging that he's got no
strawberries when the undeserving oiks in the crowd have. Proud to be British
and all that."

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 5-3 Henman is now having a pop at the
umpire after he didn't spot an obvious netcord. In fairness, that time he had a
point. Finally, after another tense game, full of deuces and breakpoints,
Tursunov sprays his forehand into the net and Henman breaks again. Meanwhile my
brother Martin, who usually spends his time keeping criminals on our streets,
writes: "Spot the south-west London living, 'no need for a car' journalist.
Cooper, Sean, not Coupar."

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 4-3 Loud groans at Centre Court after
Henman double faults (his second of the game) to immediately drop his serve.
Meanwhile at the changeover Tiger Tim is moaning again. "It's one or the other,"
he shouts to no one in particular. "You get the Coke but they take away your
umbrella." Ah diddums.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 4-2 Henman's outpouring of anger at the
changeover is followed by a loud "Jeeeez!" after he misses an easy winner. But
the British No1 soon has something to smile about as Tursunov's forehand
misfires and he breaks to go 4-2 ahead. "Spellcheck in Microsoft Word wants to
change Henman into He-man," says Ben Jackson."Do your readers know of more
inappropriate spelling correction?"

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 3-2 This is still rather scrappy. But
with Tursunov's return misfiring like a broken down Mini Coupar, Henman holds.
At the change of ends, Henman decides to have a pop at the ball girls: "Tell
them to get their heads out of their arses and find me a Coke," he growls.
Charming.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 2-2 Big, big serves from Tursunov - he's
now getting 57% of his first serves in at an average of 127mph. He also looks
the fresher of the two players. Meanwhile, Richard Whitehouse wants to know:
"Why is Henman nicknamed Tiger Tim? He doesn't sound like a tiger and certainly
doesn't look like a tiger - unless, of course, he undergoes a serious
transformation in make-up before he plays and is actually hiding orange and
black stripes, some whiskers and a rather large tail."

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 2-1 As soon as Henman goes 0-15 down,
you can feel the nervous tension on Centre Court. But the blue-rinse brigade
needn't have worried: Henman takes the next four points to hold.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 1-1 Tursunov holds with ease. "If Tim
Henman doesn't like books I assume that he won't be writing an autobiography
with lots of pictures that retails for £18.99 and will come out just before
Christmas the year he retires," says Richard Rouse. "Thank heavens for that."

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 1-0 After watching his serve go into
meltdown in the second set, Tiger Tim holds comfortable to 15. "The charity is
the Sobell House Hospice," says John McClure. "They provide care for people with
life-limiting illness and support for their families. It's a very worth cause.
And I'm off to the deed poll website."

Second set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6 Sorry for the delay, technical problems.
Meanwhile no such worries for Tursunov, who holds to love to win the second set.
"I'm not Tortoise Tim's biggest fan, but no one complained about Bjorn Borg
being an ice-cold emotionless Swede, did they?" points Rob Mansfield. "There is
the small matter of Borg actually winning titles, of course."

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 2-5 Another Henman service game, another
struggle. From 0-30 down he recovers to 40-30, only for the Russian to win the
next three points. Oh dear oh dear oh dear. "Which charity is John McClure
supporting?" asks Luke Williams. "If it's a good 'un, and if the offer is
verifiable, I'll put up £50 notes." Top work, Luke. Anyone else?

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 2-4 Tursunov, who is averaging 126mph on
his first serve, is now surging with confidence - witness the drive volley that
seals a comfortable service hold. "Tim Henman once did an interview where he
said he didn't like books because they were boring," fumes Tom Wooton. "All of
them?"

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 2-3 Henman holds to 30, sealing the game
with a thumping ace down the middle. "Did no one else notice that Andrew
Murray's fist pump when he won a point was exactly the same as Tim's?" asks
David from Waterloo. "Henman's legacy methinks!"

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 1-3 "Come on!" cries Henman as he
recovers from 40-15 down to have a breakpoint. The inevitable screams follow but
it does little good as Tursunov wins the next two points. Henman fights back to
earn another chance, but Tursunov produces an amazing drop volley to hold. The
British No1's response? A loud "Fucccccccccccccccccck!" - but amazingly the
umpire does nothing. Meanwhile John McClure is back. "I'm doing all 136 Olympic
sports", he writes. "If your avid readers can contribute a grand to the charity
I'm doing it for, I'll change my name and enter next year's London marathon as
Troy McClure." Well, any takers?

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 1-2 Silence at Centre Court as Henman
misses four first serves and Tursunov breaks. This is an ugly, messy game of
tennis and the British No1 is in a real fight. Meanwhile more Henman talk. "Tell
that Yank, game six, that she's talking rubbish," says Colin Tunnicliffe.
"Murray showed more passion in one match than Tiger has in a decade. We like
passion and commitment not lifeless robotics. Especially not from someone with a
privileged background. Having said all this I still want him to win, especially
if he's playing a Yank or an Aussie."

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 1-1 Henman speeds into a 15-40 lead, but
then Tursunov hits four 130mph service boomers to hold. "Is there no way you
could turn that picture of Henman on you're your webpage into an animated gif
with his fist pumping?" asks Jascha Elliott. "It could help us all imagine we're
really there." Our team of top Monster-Munch eating techies are working on it as
we speak, Jascha.

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 1-0 Another easy hold for Henman, who
.famous last words alert. looks in complete control. "Can we start a campaign to
raise money for John McClure to change his name to Troy by deed poll?" asks
Adrian Bradley. "He should think of all the celebrity endorsements he can do.
"Hi, you might remember me from infomercials such as "Tiger's done it again'".
Well, if anyone knows how to set up an online poll, I'll post the link here...

First set: Tursunov* 3-6 Henman A horrible missed smash from Tursunov opens the
door for Henman. And while the British No1 feeble fluffs the first of this three
set points, Tursunov sends the next one long and Tiger Tim deservedly goes a set
up. Meanwhile the debate about his qualities continues to rage. "Most people who
slag off Henman are probably so fat they can't even turn their remotes over, let
alone be able to claim to be in the top ten of their field on the planet,"
claims Nick Hood. "Henman is actually a rare winner in a nation of losers."

First set: Tursunov 3-5 Henman* Better serving from Henman, who - for a change -
holds comfortably. "I think more people would get behind 'Henners' (c)
http://www.timhenman.org/) if it wasn't for the gaggle of shrieking housewives
bedecked in Union Jack hats and flags who emerge from the Home Counties
Conservative clubs for two weeks a year purely to yell 'Come on, Tim!' at an
annoyingly loud volume," suggests Chris Clough. "That, and the fist-clenching,
obviously."

First set: Tursunov* 3-4 Henman Already the "Henman! .clap, clap, clap., Henman!
.clap! clap! clap!." chanting is rolling around Centre Court. It doesn't help
the British No1 there, as Tursunov holds to 30. Meanwhile this from Dean. "I
wish Rusedski was as consistent at tennis as he was at using his towel after
every single point," he writes. "I felt for those poor ballboys/boygirls who
were put on towel duty yesterday."

First set: Tursunov 2-4 Henman* After four deuces, a breakpoint, and some
uncharacteristic scowling "Commme On!" at the Centre Crowd (think Delia Smith
sans vino), Henman holds.

Meanwhile Tracey Graham is sticking up for Tiger Tim. "As an American, I don't
get why so many British fans' hate Henman to the extent where they root for him
to lose. It's rather sick. I wonder how you all will feel 10 years or so from
now if Andy Murray fails to live up to his promise? For several years now I've
been rooting for Henman to win Wimbledon -- if only to publicly tell all those
who ridicule him where they can stuff it. The guy has been ranked in the top 10
in the world for something like seven straight years - yet many of you act like
he's a total failure. In fact, many of you seem to prefer that your sporting
teams or players lose. Again, it's weird, if not downright masochistic." Welcome
to the British psyche, Tracey.

First set: Tursunov* 2-3 Henman I'd be lying if I said this was scintillating
feast of tennis - both men are making mistakes, and finding the net more times
than Andrei Shevchenko. However Tursunov holds on, despite facing five
breakpoints in his last two service games. Meanwhile John McClure (see earlier
email is back). "I'm no relation to the Simpson's star, but I have been offered
money to name my first-born 'Troy'," he writes, sadly declining to mention just
how much.

First set: Tursunov 1-3 Henman* Henman holds easily to 30. "Has anyone every
checked out Tim's website?" asks Damian O'Boyle. "He enjoys 'soccer' (no
comment) apparently, but doesn't like to get involved in potentially injury
inducing challenges as he's 'always got his next imminent loss to focus on'
(slightly edited)."

First set: Tursunov* 1-2 Henman With Tursunov suffering a severe case of Centre
Court nerves, Henman races into a 15-40 merely by keeping the ball in court.
Then, suddenly, the Russian's game kicks in: two forehand winners and a
much-improved serve gets him on the scoreboard. "I also hate Tiger Tim," says
Helen Trotter, who adds somewhat unnecessarily: "To be honest, the only reason
I'm following the tennis live is because the OBO commentary on the cricket
doesn't start until 2.30." You certainly know how to make a man feel wanted,
Helen...

First set: Tursunov 0-2 Henman* An easy service hold from Henman, who's already
displaying the sort of natural superiority you'd expect from someone born into a
privileged upper-class home.

First set: Tursunov* 0-1 Henman A nervous opening from Tursunov. He double
faults, hits two forehands halfway down the net and Henman happily takes
advantage to break. Listen to those roars! Meanwhile the messages of support for
the British No1 are already flying in. "I know it's of little consequence to
you, but I have to go on the record and say that I, for one, cannot wait to see
Tiger Tim exit from this fine tournament," says McGillavary. "He's the sporting
equivalent of a wet weekend in Hull. Please, please let it happen today."

We're off! Tursunov to serve. Meanwhile John McClure (who may or may not be
related to the fictional Simpson's character, Troy) is in fighting mood: "Hurry
up, Ingle," he says. "Step away from the strawberries and get with it." Will do,
John. Once they've finished warming up.

Preamble: Tim Henman really should win this at a canter. After all, Dmitry
Tursanov is ranked 138 in the world and is about as confident on grass as Neil
from the Young Ones (although admittedly he did beat an out-of-sorts Marat Safin
last year). Still, this is Tiger Tim and anything could happen...

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               21 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 23, 2005

Henman crashes out in five

LENGTH: 3595 words



HIGHLIGHT: Game-by-game report: Follow all the rallies, cries of 'Come on Tim'
and fistpumps as they happen with Sean Ingle.


Preamble: Tim Henman will hope to win this at a canter. After all, Dmitry
Tursanov is ranked 152 in the world and is about as confident on grass as Neil
from the Young Ones (although admittedly he did beat an out-of-sorts Marat Safin
last year). Still, this is Tiger Tim and anything could happen...

We're off! Tursunov to serve. Meanwhile John McClure (who may or may not be
related to the fictional Simpson's character, Troy) is in fighting mood: "Hurry
up, Ingle," he says. "Step away from the strawberries and get with it." Will do,
John. Once they've finished warming up.

First set: Tursunov* 0-1 Henman A nervous opening from Tursunov. He double
faults, hits two forehands halfway down the net and Henman happily takes
advantage to break. Listen to those roars! Meanwhile the messages of support for
the British No1 are already flying in. "I know it's of little consequence to
you, but I have to go on the record and say that I, for one, cannot wait to see
Tiger Tim exit from this fine tournament," says McGillavary. "He's the sporting
equivalent of a wet weekend in Hull. Please, please let it happen today."

First set: Tursunov 0-2 Henman* An easy service hold from Henman, who's already
displaying the sort of natural superiority you'd expect from someone born into a
privileged upper-class home.

First set: Tursunov* 1-2 Henman With Tursunov suffering a severe case of Centre
Court nerves, Henman races into a 15-40 merely by keeping the ball in court.
Then, suddenly, the Russian's game kicks in: two forehand winners and a
much-improved serve gets him on the scoreboard. "I also hate Tiger Tim," says
Helen Trotter, who adds somewhat unnecessarily: "To be honest, the only reason
I'm following the tennis live is because the OBO commentary on the cricket
doesn't start until 2.30." You certainly know how to make a man feel wanted,
Helen...

First set: Tursunov 1-3 Henman* Henman holds easily to 30. "Has anyone every
checked out Tim's website?" asks Damian O'Boyle. "He enjoys 'soccer' (no
comment) apparently, but doesn't like to get involved in potentially injury
inducing challenges as he's 'always got his next imminent loss to focus on'
(slightly edited)."

First set: Tursunov* 2-3 Henman I'd be lying if I said this was scintillating
feast of tennis - both men are making mistakes, and finding the net more times
than Andrei Shevchenko. However Tursunov holds on, despite facing five
breakpoints in his last two service games. Meanwhile John McClure (see earlier
email is back). "I'm no relation to the Simpson's star, but I have been offered
money to name my first-born 'Troy'," he writes, sadly declining to mention just
how much.

First set: Tursunov 2-4 Henman* After four deuces, a breakpoint, and some
uncharacteristic scowling "Come On!" at the Centre Crowd (think Delia Smith on
the vino), Henman holds.

First set: Tursunov* 3-4 Henman Already the "Henman! .clap, clap, clap., Henman!
.clap! clap! clap!." chanting is rolling around Centre Court. It doesn't help
the British No1 there, however, as Tursunov holds to 30. Meanwhile this from
Dean. "I wish Rusedski was as consistent at tennis as he was at using his towel
after every single point," he writes. "I felt for those poor ballboys/boygirls
who were put on towel duty yesterday."

First set: Tursunov 3-5 Henman* Better serving from Henman, who - for a change -
holds comfortably. "I think more people would get behind 'Henners' (c)
http://www.timhenman.org/) if it wasn't for the gaggle of shrieking housewives
bedecked in Union Jack hats and flags who emerge from the Home Counties
Conservative clubs for two weeks a year purely to yell 'Come on, Tim!' at an
annoyingly loud volume," suggests Chris Clough. "That, and the fist-clenching,
obviously."

First set: Tursunov* 3-6 Henman A horrible missed smash from Tursunov opens the
door for Henman. And while the British No1 feeble fluffs the first of this three
set points, Tursunov sends the next one long and Tiger Tim deservedly goes a set
up. Meanwhile the debate about his qualities continues to rage. "Most people who
slag off Henman are probably so fat they can't even turn their remotes over, let
alone be able to claim to be in the top ten of their field on the planet,"
claims Nick Hood. "Henman is actually a rare winner in a nation of losers."

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 1-0 Another easy hold for Henman, who
.famous last words alert. looks in complete control. "Can we start a campaign to
raise money for John McClure to change his name to Troy by deed poll?" asks
Adrian Bradley. "He should think of all the celebrity endorsements he can do.
"Hi, you might remember me from infomercials such as "Tiger's flopped again'".

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 1-1 Henman speeds into a 15-40 lead, but
then Tursunov hits four 130mph service boomers to hold. "Is there no way you
could turn that picture of Henman on you're your webpage into an animated gif
with his fist pumping?" asks Jascha Elliott. "It could help us all imagine we're
really there." Our team of top Monster-Munch eating techies are working on it as
we speak, Jascha.

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 1-2 Silence at Centre Court as Henman
misses four first serves and Tursunov breaks. This is a messy game of tennis and
the British No1 is in a real fight. Meanwhile more Henman talk. "Tell that Yank,
game six, that she's talking rubbish," says Colin Tunnicliffe. "Murray showed
more passion in one match than Tiger has in a decade. We like passion and
commitment not lifeless robotics. Especially not from someone with a privileged
background. Having said all this I still want him to win, especially if he's
playing a Yank or an Aussie."

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 1-3 "Come on!" cries Henman as he
recovers from 40-15 down to have a breakpoint. The inevitable screams follow but
it does little good as Tursunov wins the next two points. Henman fights back to
earn another chance, but Tursunov produces an amazing drop volley to hold. The
British No1's response? A loud "Fucccccccccccccccccck!" - but amazingly the
umpire does nothing. Meanwhile John McClure is back. "I'm doing all 136 Olympic
sports", he writes. "If your avid readers can contribute a grand to the charity
I'm doing it for, I'll change my name and enter next year's London marathon as
Troy McClure." Well, any takers?

Second set: Henman* leads Tursunov 6-3, 2-3 Henman holds to 30, sealing the game
with a thumping ace down the middle. "Did no one else notice that Andrew
Murray's fist pump when he won a point was exactly the same as Tim's?" asks
David from Waterloo. "Henman's legacy methinks!"

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 2-4 Tursunov, who is averaging 126mph on
his first serve, is now surging with confidence - witness the drive volley that
seals a comfortable service hold. "Tim Henman once did an interview where he
said he didn't like books because they were boring," fumes Tom Wooton. "All of
them?"

Second set: Henman leads Tursunov* 6-3, 2-5 Another Henman service game, another
struggle. From 0-30 down he recovers to 40-30, only for the Russian to win the
next three points. Oh dear oh dear oh dear. "Which charity is John McClure
supporting?" asks Luke Williams. "If it's a good 'un, and if the offer is
verifiable, I'll put up £50 notes." Top work, Luke. Anyone else?

Second set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6 Sorry for the delay, technical problems.
Meanwhile no such worries for Tursunov, who holds to love to win the second set.
"I'm not Tortoise Tim's biggest fan, but no one complained about Bjorn Borg
being an ice-cold emotionless Swede, did they?" points out Rob Mansfield. "There
is the small matter of Borg actually winning titles, of course."

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 1-0 After watching his serve go into
meltdown in the second set, Tiger Tim holds comfortable to 15. "The charity is
the Sobell House Hospice," says John McClure. "They provide care for people with
life-limiting illness and support for their families. It's a very worth cause.
And I'm off to the deed poll website."

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 1-1 Tursunov holds with ease. "If Tim
Henman doesn't like books I assume that he won't be writing an autobiography
with lots of pictures that retails for £18.99 and will come out just before
Christmas the year he retires," says Richard Rouse. "Thank heavens for that."

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 2-1 As soon as Henman goes 0-15 down,
you can feel the nervous tension on Centre Court. But the blue-rinse brigade
needn't have worried: Henman takes the next four points to hold.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 2-2 Big, big serves from Tursunov - he's
now getting 57% of his first serves in at an average of 127mph. He also looks
the fresher of the two players. Meanwhile, Richard Whitehouse wants to know:
"Why is Henman nicknamed Tiger Tim? He doesn't sound like a tiger and certainly
doesn't look like a tiger - unless, of course, he undergoes a serious
transformation in make-up before he plays and is actually hiding orange and
black stripes, some whiskers and a rather large tail."

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 3-2 This is still rather scrappy. But
with Tursunov's return misfiring like a broken down Mini Coupar, Henman holds.
At the change of ends, Henman decides to have a pop at the ball girls: "Tell
them to get their heads out of their arses and find me a Coke," he growls.
Charming.

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 4-2 Henman's outpouring of anger at the
changeover is followed by a loud "Jeeeez!" after he misses an easy winner. But
the British No1 soon has something to smile about as Tursunov's forehand
misfires and he breaks to go 4-2 ahead. "Spellcheck in Microsoft Word wants to
change Henman into He-man," says Ben Jackson. Do your readers know of more
inappropriate spelling correction?"

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 4-3 Loud groans at Centre Court after
Henman double faults (his second of the game) to immediately drop his serve.
Meanwhile at the changeover Tiger Tim is moaning again. "It's one or the other,"
he shouts to no one in particular. "You get the Coke but they take away your
umbrella."

Third set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 5-3 Henman is now having a pop at the
umpire after he didn't spot an obvious netcord. In fairness, that time he had a
point. Finally, after another tense game, full of deuces and breakpoints,
Tursunov sprays his forehand into the net and Henman breaks again. Meanwhile my
brother Martin, who usually spends his time keeping criminals on our streets,
writes: "Spot the south-west London living, 'no need for a car' journalist.
Cooper, Sean, not Coupar."

Third set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3 In a blur Henman holds to love,
finishing the set with an ace. "Re: Henman's moaning. The benefits of breeding
and privilege are coming to the fore," suggests Bruce Jackson. "Once he's got
his coke AND umbrella, he'll effortlessly switch into whinging that he's got no
strawberries when the undeserving oiks in the crowd have. Proud to be British
and all that."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 0-1 Tursunov holds comfortably.
"Why Tiger Tim?" asks Judith Crabtree. "Well, Tiger Tim's weekly was a comic
which ran from the 1920s through until paper shortages in the war killed it off.
The front page story was about Mrs Bruin's school, which was attended by Tiger
Tim and his mates - Giraffe, Elephant etc. I can't remember their names, but as
a small child I thought the annual that my father passed on to us was very
funny! My guess is that the nickname Tiger (often given to Tims) derives from
that." So now you know...

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-1 Another blink-and-you'll miss
it game, which Henman wins to love. "This is hardly going to set the world on
fire, but MS Word insists that my name, Alistair, is in fact spelled Alligator,
and tries to autocorrect it through and through," says Alistair (nee Alligator)
Richardson. "Shame it hasn't caused the hilarious mix-ups that would have made
this a truly great anecdote."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-2 After a game with even fewer
rallies than at a uber-cool bike race (Does that work?), Tursunov holds easily.
"If Henman ever does write the autobiography that Richard Rouse is dreading then
'You get the coke but they take away your umbrella' is what it should be
called," suggests Chris Clough. "Alternatively, T-shirts should be made bearing
that legend in time for Tim's next match. It could become the 'you cannot be
serious' for a new generation. On a separate note, does anyone know what odds I
could get on Tim spending his post-retirement years as the Tory MP for a leafy
constituency in Surrey or Sussex?" Well?

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-3 After two love service games,
Henman is broken again. .Game-by-game reporter dons anorak. That's four out of
six breakpoints that the Russian has converted now. Meanwhile this from Thomas
Moran. "Impressed as I am by Ms Crabtree's knowledge of olden-day comics, isn't
Henman called Tiger for the same 'hilarious' reason that Robin Hood's mate John
is called 'Little'?" he suggests.

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 1-4 Twice Henman has break-back
points and twice Tursunov responds with meaty aces. And just for good measure he
hits two further aces to hold. The British No1 has had 19 breakpoints and only
converted four of them.

"What is the focus on Tim's background all about today?" asks John Shepherd.
"Leave the posh fellow alone. Do the liberal minority out there not realise that
pictures of Mr Henman Sr. in his RAF baseball cap are seen around the world are
generating millions for the tourism and stereotypical film industry spawned by
Richard Curtis and his brilliantly observed social comedies, set in West
London?"

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 2-4 Despite an incredible running
forehand winner from Tursunov, Henman holds to 15. "More likely Tim Henman,
parliamentary candidate, would constantly place in the last four at
bye-elections whilst conspicuously failing to win," suggests Dominic Firth. "
Ukip it is then."

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 2-5 The British No1 is bouncing up
and down like a prize-fighter, and there's plenty more fighting talk from Henman
(this time directed to the umpire) when Tursunov's serve goes long. Hawkeye
suggests he was right, but the umpire lets the point stand and Tursunov holds to
30. "Borderline totally irrelevant, but I notice that when 'kiss' is entered
into predictive text it comes out as "lips", which I find strangely pleasing,"
says Owen Wilson.

Fourth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-5 Another double fault -
Henman's fifth of the day - has Centre Court muttering and tutting at 30-30,
before a thumping serve and a brilliant volley saves the day. "Why is Tim
drinking Coke, anyway?" wonders Csaba Abrahall. "Surely on a day like this, he
should be drinking some of that clever fluid-replacing stuff all sportsmen drink
these days, not some caffeine-filled diuretic? No wonder he isn't very good. And
when did they all stop drinking Robinson's Barley Water?"

Fourth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6 Tursunov has the added
advantage of serving with the new balls - more speed, more zip, basically - and
having gone 30-40 down it comes to his aid as he hits a 134mph serve out wide.
The Russian saves another breakpoint before another huge ace seals the set.
Brilliant stuff, this. Meanwhile, more strange spelling corrections. "Predictive
text tries to write poisoned instead of Smirnoff, perhaps not unwisely," says
Mark Rees.

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 1-0 Tursunov, to use a
horrible cliche, looks a real gunslinger - when he's hot you feel he can't miss.
When he's not ... well, that game was the perfect example. Shots went into the
crowd, the net, everywhere except the court. "Pint, when typed into a text
message, must first go through riot, which seems apposite," says Tom Chivers.
"Pints, meanwhile, pops up as pious, by way of contrast. And I need hardly tell
you the corollary of aunt."

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 1-1 More bad language from
Henan, who shouts a word not dissimilar to duck after yet another Tursunov ace.
The umpire decides not to act, however, and the Russian holds to 30. "The
predictive text also neatly converts pints into shots," points out Simon Denn
(and about 70 others).

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 2-1 An easy hold for Henman.
He looked like he was struggling in the fourth set, but he seems fine now.
Tiger's also changed drinks from Coke to an orange-looking concoction, which may
explain things. "Like Alastair has problems," says Siobhan Cavanagh. "Predictive
text wants to call me Phobia until I finally hit the mno key. And spellcheckers
want to call me Soybean."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 2-2 You keep expecting
Tursunov's bludgeoning serve and thumping forehand to malfunction. But while the
Russian has a scare when Henman pulls it back to deuce, his big serve again
saves the day again. "How do you find the time to read all those emails, watch
the game of tennis and write such informative updates?" asks Jon Cox. "Is there
a team with you?" Nope, it's just me, Jon. Not for the first time, I'm flying
solo.

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 3-2 After losing the first
point of the game, Henman grits his Dracula teeth and wins the next four points
to hold. "I know what Siobhan means," says Diarmuid Deeney. "My Irish name is
corrected by spellcheckers to Dairymaid."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 3-3 Another audible "furrrk"
from Henman as he sends a makeable forehand into the Royal Box. Then, after a
Tursunov double fault brings it to 40-30, he barks "Towel", with some menace, to
a poor ball girl. No more Mr Nice Guy, clearly. "If you type in Dave into a
mobile, you first get Date, then Fate, then Dave," suggests David Ingham.
"Surely a clincher with the ladies?" Hmmm. Wouldn't count on it.

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 4-3 A huge stroke of luck for
Henman at 30-15 as his serve, clearly long, isn't picked up by Cyclops and is
called an ace. At least that makes him smile for the first time today... "I feel
sorry for Tiger Tim," says Lee Tombs. "How many other Brits have consistently
been one of the ten best performers in a major world sport for the last five
years? "It's not his fault he's dull, posh, and never going to win anything
important."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 4-4 Clever tactics from
Henman, who chips and charges twice on second serve to good effect. But
Tursunov's big serve pulls him through to 30. "My fiancee Anna becomes 'bomb'
with predictive text and she has a short fuse in real life," says Joseph Hind.
"Isn't life strange?"

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 4-5 Disaster for Henman! Two
sensational Tursunov returns gives the Russian a 0-30 lead, and another
punishing forehand at 15-40 (after a Henman ace and double fault) brings
Tursunov one game from victory. Meanwhile this from Andrew Banks. "On
TimHenman.org, Tim writes. 'I've always been fairly calm on the court, because
that's how I feel like I'm going to play my best tennis' Gosh - nothing like a
good spin doctoring, is there?"

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 5-5 Incredible stuff! Henman
at 40-15 down looks like he's going out, but then Tursunov starts to tighten and
sprays shot after shot out. A double fault at deuce gives Henman advantage and
he breaks back with an easy volley.

Fifth set: Henman* - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-5 The adrenaline has kicked
in and Henman is going for everything: second serves, short forehands you name
it. And when Tursunov looks to have hit a scorching cross-court winner the
British No1 makes a amazing get to hold. "Office betting here has Tiger Tim down
for being MP for Henley," says Karl Ratzo, "although they'd elect a Tory pot
plant if there was no one else."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-6 It's a feverish, almost
post-Diana death atmosphere on Centre Court. The Union Jacks are out, the cries
of "Come on Tim" are long and lusty. But Tursunov is having none of it, and two
big serves - where were they at 5-4, eh? - help take the game to 15. Meanwhile
more predictive texting mistakes. "A friend of mine once received a text saying
'I'm in Debenhams, shopping for white slaves,'" says Thomas Bowtell. "The sender
may have meant plates."

Fifth set: Henman - Tursunov* 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-7 The deathly silence says
it all: Tursunov breaks and will now serve for the match for a second time
(there are no tie-breaks in the final set). At 15-40 Henman had a lucky break
when a serve that was two inches out was called good, but Tursunov came right
back to break. "Is Tim's dad wearing his vulgar baseball cap again?" asks Andy
Tabberer. "Standards are certainly slipping in the Henman house. What next?
Reebok trainers?"

Fifth set: Henman loses to Tursunov 6-3, 2-6, 6-3, 3-6, 6-8 That's it, it's all
over. The Russian seals the match to 15 with, predictably enough, an ace.
Henman's chances of ever winning Wimbledon surely look over. Not that James
Longhurt agrees. "Over here at epolitix.com we reckon Tim will undoubtedly
become MP for Wimbledon," he says. "It was a recent Tory gain and an ageing
Tiger would probably be a shoo-in." I wouldn't bet on it James after his recent
showings at SW19. Thanks for all your emails, sorry I couldn't use them all.
Cheers, Sean.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


       Copyright  2005 Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               22 of 46 DOCUMENTS



                                  Guardian.com

                                 June 23, 2005

Staffordshire finally goes to the polls

LENGTH: 228 words



HIGHLIGHT: The final piece of the 2005 general election jigsaw falls into place
today, as voters in Staffordshire South go to the polls to elect their new MP -
seven weeks behind the rest of the country


The final piece of the 2005 general election jigsaw falls into place today, as
voters in Staffordshire South go to the polls to elect their new MP - seven
weeks behind the rest of the country.

The postponement of the May 5 vote was caused by the death of the original
Liberal Democrat candidate, Jo Harrison, during the campaign.

For the first time in over 50 years, the election in a particular constituency
was thus delayed, meaning that this is not technically a byelection but the
final result of the general election.

A total of eight candidates are standing in the seat, including the tabloid
journalist Garry Bushell, and a campaigner against the proposed expansion of
Wolverhampton Business Airport.

Conservative Sir Patrick Cormack, who has represented the area since 1983, is
defending his 2001 majority of 6,881. He took 50.5% of the vote with Labour
coming second on 32.2% and the Lib Dems on 11.6%.

The seat includes much of Wolverhampton, and the weather forecast is for a hot,
humid day.

The full list of candidates is Joanne Crotty, Liberal Democrat Paul Kalinauckas,
Labour Sir Patrick Cormack, Conservative Malcolm Hurst, UK Independence Party
Katherine Spohrer, Green Party Against Airport Expansion Adrian Davies, Freedom
Party Garry Bushell, English Democrats - Putting England First The Rev David
Braid, Clause 28, Children's Protection Christian Democrats

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


      Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited (© Guardian Newspapers Limited)
                              All rights reserved

                               23 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            June 23, 2005, Thursday

PR VOTING WOULD HAVE LEFT BLAIR IN COALITION

BYLINE: BY MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 501 words


Tony Blair would have failed to win an overall majority had the election been
held under a system of proportional representation, according to a new study.

A simulation of the last election found that Labour would have at least 120
fewer MPs if the seats were in proportion to the number of votes cast.

The study by experts at the London School of Economics and Oxford University has
concluded that there were 'levels of distortion of voters' preferences by the
electoral system that are very high by international standards'.

They found that PR would 'make a huge difference to the patterns of political
representation across Great Britain'. The Liberal Democrat peer Lord Oakeshott
of Seagrove Bay, said the 'analysis shows how Britain's discredited voting
system let Blair scrape back to power'.

'With barely one third of the total votes Tony Blair's authority and legitimacy
is ebbing away,' he said.

Labour gained only 35 per cent of the vote but got 355 MPs because the election
was held under first past the post where the winner takes all in constituencies.

Had the election been held under three different PR systems, Labour's support
would have slipped by at least 120 seats. The Liberal Democrats would have had
at least 80 more MPs.

The Independent's Campaign for Democracy continues to attract support, with
nearly 40,000 readers calling for electoral reform.

Charles Kennedy yesterday challenged the Prime Minister over his refusal to
reform the voting system. In Prime Minister's Questions he asked whether the
election result 'accurately reflects what the British public voted for on 5
May'.

Liberal Democrats tabled a motion calling for 'urgent action ... to restore and
maintain public confidence in the electoral system'.

The research to be published in the book Britain Votes 2005 showed Labour's
number of MPs was disproportionately high given their share of the vote.

Patrick Dunleavy, a professor of politics at the London School of Economics, and
Helen Margetts, a professor at Oxford University, questioned the 'fairness' of
the result. Using the PR system of Germany and New Zealand, Labour would have
234 MPs (down from 355) and the Tories would have 210 MPs (up from 197). The
Liberal Democrats, who won 62 seats, would have 145, forcing Labour into a
coalition pact.

Under the system recommended by Lord Jenkins of Hillhead, in a report
commissioned by Mr Blair, Labour would have had to strike a coalition deal. It
would have 299 seats, rather than 355, the Tories would have had the same result
of 197, and the Liberal Democrats would have taken 107 seats instead of 62.

All three PR systems simulated would see the Greens, UKIP and the BNP win a
handful of seats. Each failed to gain a single seat in the 2005 election.

The study shows overall 'the Conservatives would stand to gain relatively little
from PR' while Labour would lose and the Liberal Democrats and smaller parties
such as the Greens would be big gainers.

LOAD-DATE: June 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               24 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             June 21, 2005, Tuesday

Blair told to be more European or face trouble

BYLINE: By David Rennie in Brussels

SECTION: News; International Pg. 010

LENGTH: 387 words

A LEADING European Union official warned Tony Blair yesterday that the European
establishment would refuse to co-operate with him unless he dropped his
opposition to deeper political integration and "more Europe".

The remarks by Louis Michel, the development commissioner, betrayed the dislike
that many in Brussels harbour for Mr Blair, widely seen in federalist circles as
a Eurosceptic in European's clothing and far too close to President George W
Bush.

Mr Michel, a former Belgian foreign minister, conceded that the Prime Minister,
being newly elected, had an advantage over other leaders in trouble at the
polls, such as President Jacques Chirac, of France, or Chancellor Gerhard
Schrder, of Germany. But he said that Mr Blair still needed help from the
European establishment.

"We will help him," he said, "but on condition that it is all heading in the
direction of more Europe and deeper integration."

Mr Blair's conduct during the EU summit - his defence of the rebate from the
union budget, demand for budget reform and his call for EU leaders to heed the
lesson of the French and Dutch No votes on the constitution - were seen by many
federalists as evidence of a British plot to reduce Europe to a giant free trade
zone. Mr Michel said that if the British presidency of the EU, starting next
month, was only about "constructing or cementing a Europe that is just a free
market then it is going to be difficult for him".

Asked if Europe had made a fatal error in admitting Britain to the Common
Market, he said he would "rather not pass judgment".

Referring to last week's budget row, he defended EU agricultural subsidies. He
said the underlying cause of such squabbling was the EU's inability to raise its
own revenues - a call for a union tax, collected by Brussels.

A British official said: "We don't believe Mr Michel was speaking for the
commission as a whole. On development issues at least, we take him very
seriously."

Mr Blair faces a painful encounter with the European Parliament on Thursday when
he must set out his agenda for Britain's six-month presidency of the EU.

He will have to endure more than two hours of speeches from a score of MEPs
about the failed summit, with likely speakers ranging from leading German
federalists to members of the Ukip and possibly Sinn Fein.

LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               25 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 21, 2005, Tuesday

At last I have a European princess I can rescue. Forward in my quest!

BYLINE: David Aaronovitch

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 1209 words


FRANKLY it's been rubbish to be a pro-European in recent years. Everyone needs
to think that they are fighting for something important, but we champions of the
continental ideal have, for some time now, had the worst of slogans, the most
uninspired of leadership and the most tedious of quests. It's like a boring
knightly adventure through the countryside (say) of Belgium, by scooter, which
terminates in a lengthy attempt to rescue a damsel who is old, unattractive and
largely unintelligible. The only reason you do it is because you really think
you ought to. It's no fun, and very few people want to go with you.

Once it was different. Previous European chevaliers fought for the Princess of
Peace. Later they burnished their armour in the service of the less romantic but
rather more ample Lady of Prosperity. But by the time people like me came along,
the thinning expeditions in rusty breastplates were making for Castle Stability,
on the uninteresting basis that we had to be in there, lest we be left behind.

Ours was the land of headphones, directorates and bossy Luxembourgers.

No wonder that, in Britain at least, the sceps possessed all the passion.

Conjuring dragons from the shadows of gerbils, their fury mounted as our
enthusiasm waned. We had a constitution to defend that looked and sounded like
an explosion in a Soviet economic ministry, but for them the issue was nothing
less than survival. "It doesn't amount to anything," we'd say. And they'd reply:
"The very future of Britain as a sovereign nation is threatened. Aux armes!" It
is the essentially tragic figure of Jacques Chirac -now fulfilling his blind
historic destiny as assassin of all his own hopes -who has changed things,
possibly for ever. He has freed us from the fatalistic belief that Europe is
about nit picking over the exact size of the intolerable subsidy given to
uneconomic agriculture, and instead ensured that it is a place of contention
about the biggest and most fundamental questions. He has demanded of us: "Don't
you want a Europe that is like France, rather than like Britain?" And our answer
is a resounding "Non!" Now not even the fabled, once-invincible alliance of
France and Germany can coerce us back into the fold. Their leaders are too weak,
their polity is too feeble. As Tony Blair put it at the weekend: "I'm not
prepared to have someone tell me there is only one view of what Europe
is...Europe isn't owned by any of them; Europe is owned by all of us." The
flashing eye! The flushed cheek!

So all of a sudden we can say what we want to say. If peasant agriculture is la
vraie France why should we subsidise it at ruinous cost when our own industries
such as coal-mining, surely la vraie Bretagne, all had to go to the wall? And
doesn't the EU in its language and practices ape those of the patrician
political classes of France and Benelux, rather than the more demotic approach
of Britain and the new accession states? Do we really want a Europe that sees
itself as a "political counterweight" to America, chiefly by virtue of its
willingness to do business with unpleasant regimes?

It has been an education to listen to members of the political establishment in
France and Germany blaming the failure of the constitution on the "Anglo
Saxons".

This is particularly rich coming from the Left and Centre Left in those
countries -political forces whose narrow-mindedness and lack of political
courage is largely responsible for the current crisis. It was the French Left,
sniffy with the socialist candidate, Lionel Jospin, who split the vote in the
last presidential elections, ensuring that the result was a victory for the
discredited Chirac over the neo-Fascist Le Pen. Oh, bravo! What can you say
about a supposedly progressive tendency that has as one of its great heroes a
protectionist cheese-maker and the last sensible man on Earth who believes that
Roquefort is better for you nutritionally than Paraquat?

And it was the German Left that opposed Gerhard Schroder's attempts to reform
the German economy and the German welfare system, weakening him and ensuring
that when the axe falls, it will be wielded by the German Right under Angela
Merkel.

When the constitution was run out of France, a crisis was inevitable. The manner
of it, however, was not. Britain would still have wanted a new dispensation, but
would have gone about arguing for it quietly, possibly over- impressed by the
suggestion that too open an advocacy was as likely to offend as to convince. M
Chirac and Herr Schroder put an end to this possibility. Their great
counter-productive achievement has been to force the hands of those leaders who
want something different.

All of a sudden Mr Blair, assaulted over a rebate he couldn't possibly give up,
had nothing to lose. Now, abruptly, we do have a Quest, a princess worth
rescuing.

And, before I describe her, I have to admit to disconcerting feelings in my
European areas: a tingling, a slight but noticeable excitement. There is now a
vision of Europe that I feel like getting out of bed for.

It is the wider, extended, democratic Europe that I'm falling in love with. It
is an entity constructed to enable the peoples of Europe to compete with the
massive economies of the US, China and (soon) India. It is committed to
spreading liberal democracy, in partnership with others.

It is not characterised by possessing a core elite of countries and relegating
the others to supporting roles. It is strategic in attitude, and open in
administration. It is a Europe which can embrace the Balkan countries and, above
all, Turkey, that essential, indispensable bridge between "us" and "them".

I hear a polite coughing at the back. Excuse me, says the first voice, but
haven't we been here before? I seem to remember (it continues) that "wider and
shallower" was precisely the position of John Major and (it then demands) where
were you then, eh? Shouting that we should enter the euro, abandon the veto, and
do just about anything that the French wanted us to do, that's what. Bloody
Johnny-come-lately.

That voice has it partly right. But the problem was that in the hands of the
Conservative Party the Euro- debate was only a defensive battle about
sovereignty. They, the mad bureaucrats of Brussels, wanted us to give it up and
we didn't want to. That was the limit of the vision. Which was why it was
superseded by late-period Thatcherism with its attendant laments and Lamonts, by
the Bruges Group and the UK Independence Party, by Robert Kilroy-Silk and the
proffered chimerical hell of a castrated Britain awash with Romanian Gypsies.

And voice two? That points out that 85,000 Italians reportedly turned out at the
weekend to listen to Umberto Bossi, of the Northern League, demand the return of
the lira and the Polish plumbers. What makes me think that the extended,
immigrant-rich, hypercompetitive Europe of my dreams is going to garner mass
support?

Well, it couldn't do any worse than the old vision, could it? Among all the many
voters saying "yes" or "no" in the recent referendums, who can say that there
wouldn't be a majority for this different Europe? Especially now that it can be
argued for with real passion. Bring it on.


LOAD-DATE: June 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               26 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 18, 2005, Saturday

Straw accused of currying favour

BYLINE: Dominic Kennedy

SECTION: Home news; 7

LENGTH: 736 words


THE ancient electoral offence of "treating", which bans candidates from bribing
voters, is being dusted down by prosecutors after lying unused in law books for
a century.

The first allegations of treating to be investigated by the Crown Prosecution
Service involve the UK Independence Party (UKIP) providing hot beverages to
electors and Jack Straw, the Foreign Secretary, giving curry to Muslims.

The Representation of the People Act forbids "providing meat, drink,
entertainment or provision to any person" for the purpose of corruptly
influencing them to vote.

A prosecution source said: "The wording has never been changed. It's a
throwback.

Dare I say, we are straight into Blackadder."

The first allegation centres on the Lincolnshire seat of Boston & Skegness,
where drinks were served to voters viewing turgid anti-Europe propaganda during
the general election. "The UKIP were encouraging people to sit and watch some
sort of video or TV presentation," a CPS spokesman said. "They had a message
they wanted to get across. People were encouraged to come and watch it. When
there, it has been alleged they were given excessive amounts of tea and coffee."

The treats were even hotter in Mr Straw's Blackburn constituency. He was the
star speaker at a rally hosted by the Muslims for Labour movement at a
conference centre in the town. After listening to a succession of speeches,
guests enjoyed spicy refreshments.

Mr Straw's agent Sir Bill Taylor said: "I understand there were chapatis, some
curry and rice."

A local Labour source said that this was consistent with local custom. Burnley's
Asians, he said, hail from a "fairly rural area" of the Indian sub-continent
where "if you have walked ten miles to see a friend, it's considered rude not to
offer food and drink".

The Independent Burnley candidate Craig Murray, a former ambassador to
Uzbekistan who was recalled after condemning corruption in Tashkent, blew the
whistle on Mr Straw.

"The invitations actually said 'food provided'," Mr Murray said. "This was a
sitdown meal that went on for an hour. It wasn't a sandwich. There is this law
against treating. I can't think of a more obvious example. It couldn't be more
blatant."

Treating dates back to the corrupt election practices of the 18th and 19th
centuries, satirised in Rowan Atkinson's Blackadder comedy.

In the opening episode of the third series, Blackadder decides to buy the rotten
borough of Dunny-on-the-Wold by "treating" its one voter, a farmer, with bribes
of hen food, dog biscuits and cow ointment.

By the mid-19th century, with the extension of the male franchise, candidates
became notorious for getting voters drunk with excessive hospitality. The abuse
was finally abolished in 1883.

The last prosecution was in Yarmouth in 1906, when an MP was cleared after
giving electors whisky. Today, the maximum penalty is two years' imprisonment,
an unlimited fine and a five-year ban from holding public office or voting.

The CPS has been asked for advice about 36 alleged offences arising from the
general and local elections last month. Three involved postal voting, 11 were
other offences and 22 consisted of mere technical breaches such as issuing an
election leaflet without a printer's name.

The UKIP was unapologetic last night. "It's a storm in a teacup," Mark Croucher,
the director of communications, said.

Lancashire Constabulary said that it would be taking no further action on Mr
Straw's chapatis because "it was such a trivial matter that it was not in the
public interest to prosecute".

I HAVE A CUNNING PLAN:

Blackadder: Dunny-on-the-Wold is a tuppenny-ha'penny place. Population: three
rather mangy cows, a dachshund named Colin and a small hen in its late forties.

Only one actual person lives there, and he is the voter. We must buy
Dunny-on-the-Wold at once and thus control the voter. I shall need a thousand
pounds.

Prince George: A thousand pounds? I thought...it was a "tuppenny ha'penny"
place.

Blackadder: The land will cost tuppence-ha'penny, but there are many other
factors to be considered: stamp duty, window tax...cow ointment -the expenses
are endless. The only question is who to choose as MP. What we need is an utter
unknown yet someone over whom we have complete power. A man with no mind, with
no ideas of his own ...

(He rings the servant bell. Enter Baldrick).


LOAD-DATE: June 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               27 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 17, 2005, Friday

PODIUM: VERNON BOGDANOR: 'OUR ELECTORAL SYSTEM FAILED TO REGISTER ALL
SIGNIFICANT MINORITIES';
 FROM A SPEECH BY THE PROFESSOR OF LAW AT GRESHAM COLLEGE, IN THE CITY

BYLINE: VERNON BOGDANOR

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 42

LENGTH: 359 words


The most obvious feature of the recent general election is that the Labour Party
was returned to office with a comfortable working majority of 66 seats on just
35.2 per cent of the vote. This means that nearly 65 per cent of those who voted
" nearly two thirds of the voters " were against it. We thus have, under our
constitution, a government with very considerable, if not untrammelled power,
yet opposed by nearly two-thirds of the voters.

Many definitions of democracy equate it with majority rule. But do we have
majority rule in Britain when the Government is supported by just over 35 per
cent of the voters?

In the 2005 general election, the electoral system failed to yield a government
representing the majority and failed to ensure that all significant minorities
were represented. Instead, it secured a government representing the largest
minority; and it represented some minorities better than others " minorities
voting for parties whose support was concentrated, but not minorities voting for
nationwide parties such as UKIP or the Greens.

The electoral system particularly misrepresented the state of Unionist opinion
in Northern Ireland, making Rev Ian Paisley's DUP appear stronger than it is and
David Trimble's UUP weaker. This could have important political consequences.

The electoral system also has the effect of under-representing major parties in
areas where they are second " the Conservatives in the inner cities and Labour
in rural areas " and this could have important political consequences. It is
possible also that the electoral system bears part of the blame for the low
level of turnout.

The Achilles heel of our electoral system is that, under it, the number of seats
that a party gains depends not only upon the number of votes that it receives,
but also upon how those votes are geographically structured.

A party whose vote is geographically concentrated will win a greater number of
seats than a party with the same vote whose vote is geographically more evenly
spread. Our electoral system makes the number of seats depend not only upon the
number of votes, but also upon geography.

LOAD-DATE: June 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               28 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 16, 2005, Thursday

EU subsidy change 'will shake up the countryside'

BYLINE: By Ambrose Evans-Pritchard

SECTION: City Pg. 031

LENGTH: 394 words

BRITAIN'S countryside is to change profoundly as crop farmers slash production
or switch to other activities under the EU's new subsidy rules, according to a
survey by HSBC bank.

Under new reforms to the Common Agricultural Policy, farmers will receive a fee
of about pounds 70 an acre to husband the land, whether or not they till the
soil.

HSBC found that 51pc of farmers planned to rethink their whole strategy, in many
cases by opting to leave the fields fallow - much to the benefit of the local
wildlife. Two fifths of them said they would plant fewer cereal crops.

EU farm policy has turned vast swathes of Northern France and East Anglia into
ugly "CAP lands", polluting the ground water with nitrates and spoiling bird
habitats. Reform has been blocked over the years by France and Spain, which
receive the lion's share of the euros43billion ( pounds 29billion) farm budget.

The new rules end the subsidies that led to food mountains and distort markets,
undercutting African, Caribbean and Asian farmers.

Under the new Single Payment Scheme, which comes into force this year, farmers
will have to sink or swim as entrepreneurs. There is no incentive to plant
crops, or rear animals, if they cannot turn a profit at prevailing prices.

Farmers still receive a support income, calculated on the basis of past
subsidies. In theory, they will have to keep the land in "good agricultural
condition", maintain hedgerows and ditches, and have to abide by animal welfare
standards.

Nigel Farage, MEP, the leader of the UK Independence Party in Brussels and a
City commodities broker, said the policy would create a "new barony", drawing a
feudal tithe from its land titles. But Brussels insisted the right to subsidy
could not be sold to investors.

"Farmers can't just sit on their backsides and take the money," said Michael
Mann, the commission's farm spokesman. It is up to each state to devise its own
rules, subject to EU guidelines.

Steve Ellwood, head of HSBC Agriculture, said small farmers would have to be far
more creative, switching to tourism or niche products ranging from ostrich or
llama herding to exotic forms of bee-keeping or market gardening.

Over time, the reforms are expected to squeeze out the smaller crop farms,
leading to consolidation into bigger estates above 1,000 acres able to compete
on the world market.  >

LOAD-DATE: June 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               29 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            June 15, 2005, Wednesday

Missing the election? This man is still fighting it

BYLINE: Ann Treneman

SECTION: Features; 12

LENGTH: 454 words


To Staffordshire South then, where the Tory grandee Sir Patrick Cormack is still
fighting the general election. The death of a rival has forced the delay and,
although Sir Patrick is sorry about the situation, his frustration is palpable.

For he is a parliamentarian (pronouncing all syllables, please) without a
Parliament and it is almost painful to behold.

"I pray fervently every night for the good health of my opponents and that none
of them dies," he said, closing his eyes for a long moment. Then he added: "One
has to laugh or else one would fold up!" But he did not laugh.

Instead, he sighed. It is the Rip Van Winkle election and the feeling of being
in a time warp is overwhelming. I knew that I had entered his mostly rural
constituency when I almost crashed my car into a tree with a bright blue CORMACK
CARES sign on it. It was partially covered by a yellow sign for the new Lib Dem
candidate with the memorable name of Crotty. Near by was a poster for the UK
Independence Party. Its slogan was UPIK, UKIP. Labour, at No 2, did not seem to
be trying so hard.

Sir Patrick, 66 and the MP for 35 years, is treating the contest like a
marginal.

He races round in a Land Rover bedecked in blue ribbon as if for a wedding.
"Your election has been delayed!" he cried to the village of Codsall. "Vote for
Cormack on June 23!"

I wonder why he is being quite so assiduous. He is a man who likes to do things
properly but it must also suit him to be busy. He would go mad if he sat around,
watching the Parliament Channel. "Of course, I wish I were safely back in the
House, sitting on my corner seat," he said. Well, I said cruelly, someone else
has been sitting in your seat. Sir Patrick looked startled. (I don't think he is
watching the Parliament Channel.) It is Robert Key, I said.

Sir Patrick looked relieved. "Oh, Robert is a friend. He is just keeping it warm
for me."

His office in Westminster remains sealed and his absence means that he could not
sit on the Tory executive. He insisted that he is still third in line to be
Father of the House. "Oh yes. This is the general election. I have not been
defeated. It is just delayed."

He has had sympathy letters from MPs of all parties. "I would not wish this on
my worst enemy," he said, adding that the law must be changed. He said that, in
America, if a candidate dies the election goes ahead and, if a dead person wins,
there is a by-election. He does not want that, but wants to minimise the delay.

Otherwise, he fears, "strategically placed terminally ill" fringeparty
candidates would run for office, die, and cause constitutional chaos. "It could
happen in the Prime Minister's constituency, you know," he said.


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               30 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 June 14, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Rupert Murdoch may be the man who saved Europe: The anti-EU
conspiracy could yet rescue the project in a more realistic form

BYLINE: Martin Kettle

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1154 words


Most of the time I don't buy into conspiracy theories. I no longer believe, for
instance, that anyone shot JFK from the grassy knoll. Deep down I don't really
think that Harold Wilson was the victim of an MI5 coup either. And I certainly
don't believe the only reason why Gerry Adams isn't part of a power-sharing
government in Belfast today is because the Special Branch will stop at nothing
to prevent it.

In general, I hold more to the view of the historian AJP Taylor that, especially
in times of great crisis, politicians stumble forward like generals in the
proverbial fog of war. Where they emerge when the fog clears is often a complete
surprise to them, though they will quickly claim the credit if things have gone
well. Taylor made his remark about Disraeli's handling of the 1866-7
parliamentary reform crisis, but it applies just as readily to Tony Blair's
handling of Europe, a policy that is now every bit as improvisatory as
Disraeli's was on the franchise, and with scarcely more foreseeable
consequences.

There is, though, one modern conspiracy theory that cannot be so readily
dismissed. This is the suspicion that, in spring 2004, Rupert Murdoch made it
clear to Blair that unless there was a British referendum on the European Union
constitution, the Sun would switch support to the Conservatives in the 2005
general election - and that Blair, at one of the lowest points of his
premiership, agreed to pay Murdoch's price to retain his paper's prized support.

Murdoch's emissary Irwin Stelzer has always denied that he made such a vulgar
threat on behalf of his master. Well he would, wouldn't he? But you do not have
to believe in a grand-guignol version of the encounter - with a devilish Stelzer
peremptorily instructing a cringeing Blair to change the policy or else - in
order to suspect that some sort of mutual understanding to this effect took
shape when Murdoch's man visited Downing Street last year.

There are several compelling reasons for insisting on this. The first is that
Blair had always previously been so absolutely adamant that there would not be a
referendum. A second is that the referendum would (and may yet be) so
politically lethal to him that Blair would naturally wish to avoid it. A third
is that shortly after Stelzer's visit, Blair nevertheless carried out his
extraordinary U-turn. And finally there is the abject conduct of the Sun during
the 2005 election, suppressing every opportunity and instinct to humiliate a
vulnerable Blair.

It is a powerful case. Certainly things could not have turned out much better
for such a conspiracy. The EU constitution is out for the count. What is more,
in an unanticipated triple bonus, the Chirac government is in crisis, the EU is
in budgetary turmoil and there is the possibility of fractures in the eurozone.

Yet things are also evolving very differently from the way traditional
Eurosceptics might have imagined. Even the best-prepared conspiracy has its
limits. Taylor's metaphorical fog, it now appears, is doing just as much to
shape the actual European outcome. Instead of the crisis playing itself out
according to the long-anticipated UK Eurosceptic scenario, with a divided
Britain compelled by the efforts of the anti-Europeans to renounce the EU, a
united Britain is emerging as an engaged sceptic player inside the union, and is
showing no sign of an imminent departure.

An engaged player, what is more, that is suddenly not under domestic political
pressure. In the context of British politics, the most striking single feature
of the past two weeks has been the dramatic transformation in the fortunes of
the prime minister, who has suddenly emerged, perhaps only temporarily, as
something close to a unifying national leader of Britain's cause in the EU,
unchallenged by the opposition parties or even, for a change, from within his
own party.

This is not at all what the dyed-in-the-wool British Eurosceptics wanted or
expected, and it faces them with a difficult set of decisions. Do they now
insist that Britain's European question, as they define it, continues to be the
only one worth answering - in which case they will continue to press for an
increasingly meaningless vote on an increasingly meaningless document? Or do
they swing behind a prime minister who may have launched his referendum U-turn
16 months ago with the call to put Britain "at the centre and heart of European
decision making" but who this week promises a self-consciously Thatcherian
confrontation with the other 24 member states over the EU budget?

The truth is that they have little choice. In Britain the European row has moved
the advantage decisively in the direction of Blair and his new form of
engagement. As a result the Tories, let alone Ukip, have nothing to say on
Europe. The Liberal Democrats, as their spokesman Nick Clegg made clear
yesterday, have cleverly become pragmatic and incremental rather than radical on
the issue. The Sun yesterday even announced that "Britain has a wonderful chance
to control the future shape of the EU".

Quick as ever to scent the political opportunities of a new situation, Peter
Mandelson turned up in London last night to deliver a Fabian lecture that
attempted to define the elements of what he somewhat prematurely dubbed a "new
consensus" for Europe. Mandelson's speech deserves respect though, not least
because he went out of his way to distance his "social justice economy" model of
Europe from the Gaullist (and old left) charge that Britain is promoting a
transatlantic Anglo-Saxon model aimed at Americanising Europe.

Britain's EU commissioner is entitled to deny this lazy nonsense. It is high
time that Blair's critics (including some of his Labour critics) faced up to the
fact that New Labour's blueprint is quite distinct from any US model. It is far
closer to Ludwig Erhard's postwar social market economy than it is to any modern
American neoliberal model.

Mandelson was also right to warn Labour ministers against playing to the
Thatcherite gallery over the EU budget. Yet the fact that he needed to do so was
a reminder that the vaunted strengths of Blair's current position rest on
fragile foundations. Post-Iraq, Blair has far less credibility as Europe's
saviour than the current British tendency to talk him up implies. That he has so
many of the right prescriptions for Europe but that he now lacks the authority
to secure them is his self-inflicted tragedy.

The European debate, though, has rarely been as dynamic and interesting as it is
today. Only good can come of this process in the end. It is by no means
impossible that the anti-EU conspiracy may in the end have the unintended
consequence of preserving the European project in a much more realistic shape
than it would otherwise have had. Rupert Murdoch the man who saved Europe? AJP
Taylor would have enjoyed that.

martin.kettle@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: June 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               31 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 14, 2005, Tuesday

FOOTBALL: THE STATISTICS: CHELSEA'S CASE FOR DEFENCE

BYLINE: BRIAN SEARS

SECTION: First Edition; SPORT; Pg. 63

LENGTH: 197 words


Proof that good teams are founded on defence comes with close examination of the
goals for and against columns. If the Premiership was decided on striking
potency, Arsenal would have won the title by a street, Southampton would be
sitting comfortably in mid-table but Blackburn and Birmingham would be facing
relegation. Everton, meanwhile, would have as much interest in Europe as UKIP.

Ranking the teams by defensive security produces a closer approximation to the
real table. Chelsea are easy winners, Palace, West Brom, Southampton and Norwich
are all in the mire " as would be Fulham.

Surprisingly, Everton are underperforming in this table as well. Somehow,
despite conceding as many goals as Blackburn (14th in the Premiership) and
scoring as many as Portsmouth (16th) they will finish fourth. In fact the number
of 1-0 wins they have enjoyed (nine) has maximised the return David Moyes' side
has enjoyed from the goals they have scored.

On defending ability that Champions' League qualifying position, remarkably
given Kevin Keegan was manager to March, would be Manchester City's.

One team are a picture of consistency: Liverpool, fifth in all tables.

LOAD-DATE: June 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               32 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 13, 2005, Monday

BRITISH MEP CENSURES BARROSO

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 46 words


STRASBOURG Nigel Farage, an MEP and founder member of UKIP, has filed a motion
of censure in the European Parliament to force the dismissal of the European
Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso, over a holiday Mr Barroso had on the
yacht of a billionaire friend.

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               33 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             June 13, 2005, Monday

Why it all depends on Ken

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 1003 words


The Tories have rejected him before, and he will never change -but Clarke still
throws a long shadow.

I AM not a golfer, but I understand that a large tank, parked in the middle of
the fairway, would interfere considerably with the game. That has been the case
with the Conservative Party's leadership contest for the past eight years. The
tank is called Kenneth Clarke.

I share with his fans, who are numerous, a natural affection for Kenneth Clarke
as a human being. In 1992 or 1993 I wanted him to take over the Conservative
leadership from John Major; I shared John Redwood's view, "no change, no
chance", which has proved to be even more justified than Mr Redwood supposed.
But it is clear that Mr Clarke's attitude to Europe cannot be reconciled to that
of his party, either in or out of Parliament.

This situation is not going to change. If he had been willing to bend towards
Euroscepticism, Kenneth Clarke could have become leader in 1997, in 2001 or even
in 2003. On each occasion he made it clear that he put his European principles
ahead of his personal ambitions. Who would criticise him for that? Yet
Conservative voters must also be allowed to put their principles ahead of their
party.

Most Tories believe that further integration into Europe would destroy Britain's
independence, the sovereignty of Parliament and the ultimate rule of British
law; they want to reclaim national powers, not transfer them. They have
throughout been opposed to the euro and the constitution. Ken Clarke was an
advocate of both.

Mr Clarke's friends are now arguing that the French referendum has removed the
European issue from the centre of politics. That is manifestly not the case. It
was a defeat for the United States of Europe, but it has not destroyed the
project. The Franco-German leaders immediately signalled that the French
referendum result was merely an irritating delay. The march could continue.

At the next general election the Labour Prime Minister will presumably be Gordon
Brown. He did more than anyone else to prevent Britain joining the euro; he
never seemed to have any enthusiasm for the European constitution; he wants to
reform the European economy rather than integrate Britain further with a non
competitive, high-unemployment European Union.

If Mr Clarke were to be leader of the Conservative Party, the 2009 election
might well be fought between a Europhile Conservative leader and a relatively
Eurosceptic Labour leader. That would be absurd. Leaving aside the UKIP,
Conservative Eurosceptics would be tempted to vote Labour.

In 2001 the Conservatives had their only democratic leadership election.
Although he was seen to be the stronger of the two candidates, Conservative
members decisively refused to accept Kenneth Clarke's European views. He cannot
now become the Europhile leader of a Eurosceptic party. It will not help to take
away the leadership vote of the members; there would still be constituency
voters, and they would still reject him in at least sufficient numbers to
guarantee another election defeat.

It is, in any case, strange that a party increasingly and rightly committed to
"localism" should be contemplating the reduction of its leadership vote from
300,000 local members to 197 MPs, largely elected in southern England. Scotland
will have only one vote, because it has only one Conservative MP. That is
Conservative devolution for you.

David Davis has emerged as the unquestioned leader of the Eurosceptic, low-tax
wing of the party. This is unlikely to change. The only challenger on that side
is Liam Fox, who used to be my Member of Parliament. He is a useful political
figure, but I do not think he has more than a fraction of the support for David
Davis, either in the House of Commons or the country.

The candidate who has been blocked by Kenneth Clarke's flirtation with another
run for the leadership is not David Davis, who is almost certainly ahead of
Clarke in Parliament and among activists, but David Cameron. He has decided to
campaign as the "compassionate" candidate. He describes himself as a political
pragmatist.

Mr Cameron has the support of a smallish group of like-minded young politicians,
several of whom entered Parliament in 2001, the same year as he did. He has the
more important support of Michael Howard, who is still the leader of the party.
He played a senior role in Michael Howard's Shadow team and would represent
continuity of Conservative policy, rather than a shift to the right or left.

So long as Kenneth Clarke is in the way, David Cameron must be expected to
continue to run third. After only four years in Parliament he has nothing like
the experience or public recognition of Davis or Clarke. His only chance is to
become the "stop Davis" candidate, to unite the support which is scattered
between perhaps as many as seven other candidates.

I doubt whether David Cameron could beat David Davis even so -but he would have
an opening. So long as Kenneth Clarke is thought to be a potential candidate,
Cameron cannot build his coalition to stop Davis. It must be very annoying for
him. For David Davis, Clarke may be more of a shield than a threat. Michael
Howard's clumsy mishandling of his constitutional proposals may be equally
annoying for him. That has delayed what is still Davis's probable victory, but
to no benefit to the Conservative Party.

This leadership contest is important, because the next Conservative leader has
an excellent chance of being the leader of a hung Parliament after 2009 and a
fair chance of becoming Prime Minister thereafter. In 2001 the Conservatives won
33 seats despite their narrow and unsympathetic campaign. Even another 33 seats
in 2009 would probably produce a hung Parliament; redistribution alone will give
the Conservatives up to 30 of them. In May, 2009, David Cameron will be 42,
David Davis will be 60 and Kenneth Clarke will be 68. I would bet on middle age,
though all three look like promising young men to me.


LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               34 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             June 12, 2005, Sunday

THE CRICTIC: FILM : KINGS AND QUEEN;
 ARNAUD DESPLECHIN 153 MINS, 15

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 264 words


This eccentric sprawl of a film was adored by critics in France, in part, no
doubt, because it couldn't be more deeply French if it had a croissant and a
high-tar cigarette for breakfast. That said, it doesn't resemble any one French
film in particular: it resembles eight or nine of them mixed together. The queen
of the title is Emmanuelle Devos, an art gallery curator who visits her stern
intellectual father in Grenoble and learns that he's dying of cancer. Her own
first husband died a decade earlier, so her father's condition makes her worry
about how sparse her young son's family is becoming, and she seeks out her
second husband, Mathieu Amalric. But if Devos's story is a typically French
bourgeois psychological drama, Amalric's is a frenetic farce. He is a viola
player whose penchant for being seen around town in a musketeer's cape has
landed him in a mental institution.

Now he has to rely on a pill-popping lawyer and a domineering psychiatrist to
get him out.

Kings and Queen isn't merely a two-genre film, though. Just when you think
you've got the measure of it, Arnaud Desplechin will introduce a ghost or allude
to a Greek myth or flash back to a scene 10 years earlier. Some of the film's
best scenes are vignettes " an old man violently disarming the three thugs who
try to rob his convenience store, for instance " that have almost no connection
to anything else in it. Viewers will either be beguiled by the film's dream
logic and its ambitious wilfulness or they'll run screaming from the cinema all
the way to their nearest UKIP office.

LOAD-DATE: June 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               35 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 June 12, 2005

HOW EU IS IGNORING THE NO VOTES TO INTRODUCE POLICY BY BACK DOOR; FOCUS FEAR OF
FAILED TREATY GOING AHEAD WITHOUT BRITAIN EVER HAVING SAY

BYLINE: By Julia Hartley Brewer

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. , 11

LENGTH: 1384 words


KEY elements of the failed EU constitution are already being implemented by
stealth, the Sunday Express can reveal.

Vital decisions on areas such as defence and foreign policy contained in the
controversial treaty are going ahead despite its rejection by voters in France
and Holland.

While pro-Europeans wring their hands in horror at the potential collapse of the
constitution after the humiliating poll results, Eurosceptics fear the key
measures of the treaty will still go ahead - even without a referendum in
Britain.

Proposals for an EU diplomatic service headed by EU foreign affairs chief Javier
Solana - the European Foreign Minister in all but name - are already under way.

So, too, are the main elements of the proposed EU defence structure and policy,
including the creation of EU battle groups and the European Defence Agency for
developing and procuring armaments.

The Government announced last week that it had decided to shelve plans for a
British referendum on the constitution next spring, and Foreign Secretary Jack
Straw insisted Labour had no intention of introducing the treaty's provisions by
the back door.

But with three other countries - Denmark, Luxembourg and Poland - still planning
national votes later this year, Tony Blair has left open some ambiguities over
Britain's position.

Eurosceptics fear this may be less about diplomatic niceties and more about
keeping the Prime Minister's options open for a referendum in the future.

The Conservatives, who had hoped a referendum would give them a chance to
inflict a heavy defeat on Labour, are arguing that if any part of the 500-page
treaty is to be enacted British voters must be given their say.

Under European rules, only a unanimous decision by the 25 EU heads of government
can end the constitution process. The French and Germans say the ratification
process should go on until every member state has passed judgment on the
document.

Britain is in a minority pushing for recognition that two No votes already, and
possibly more to come, make it unrealistic to try to keep the deal alive. Yet
some EU leaders have called for selected aspects of the constitution to be
implemented through modifications to existing European rules in a bid to avoid
the legal need for referendums or parliamentary votes to ratify a new treaty.

Ukip MEP Nigel Farage said: "Even though this treaty has been kicked into touch
by the French and the Dutch, even though you could argue that the EU of today
has been rejected, and even though the polls in the UK show that if a referendum
were held, voters would reject it, it doesn't matter - it's still happening.

"The only way we will ever get to grips with this is if the British public are
given a full, free and fair referendum on whether they want to stay part of the
political union which Europe has become or revert to a simple trade deal, which
is what it was meant to be."

The European foreign diplomatic service is already being created. The European
Commission has delegations - treated almost as EU embassies by diplomatic staff
- in some 126 countries, while the British embassy in Sofia is already located
within the European Commission's offices in the Bulgarian capital.

In a handful of countries, the Foreign Office has given up its offices and
merged with the EU office.

European Commissioners are also forging ahead with proposals for a separate EU
military command structure in Brussels in parallel with the existing Nato
structure.

This separate structure was introduced as part of the Maastricht treaty but it
is an integral part of the new constitution rejected by the French and the
Dutch. Under the changes, the EU is setting up battle groups of about 1,500
available for deployment around the world at short notice. The proposal brings
together national forces to fight under the EU flag - and under at least partial
EU control.

The European Defence Agency is also due to come into operation by the end of
this year.

Based in Brussels, it will give the EU a role in deciding Europe's armaments
capabilities, working on joint projects to build equipment.

However, critics claim the agency will be a "recipe for disaster" as Britain has
already lost billions of pounds after numerous doomed joint projects, including
the Eurofighter which has cost UK taxpayers a fortune.

Brigadier Geoffrey Van Orden, a Tory MEP and defence spokesman, said: "The
European Defence Agency is a significant item in the constitution but in fact
they have already agreed to it and so it's established and up and running.

"On the constitution they will try one of three things. Either they will make
some minor adjustments and reintroduce it in 2007, or a group of countries will
decide to go ahead on their own, or they will introduce key elements of the
constitution piecemeal and by stealth."

Ukip's Mr Farage added: "The one thing the pro-Europeans in Brussels all agree
on is that the work of the EU must continue and the process of ever closer union
continues even without the constitution being ratified.

"No one under the age of 47 in the UK has ever been asked whether they want to
be part of European political union. Millions who did vote in the 1975
referendum thought they were voting on a free trade club, not a political
union."

Conservative MEP Chris Heaton-Harris said: "It's obvious now from the actions of
Tony Blair and Co that they are trying to implement parts of the failed
constitution by stealth.

"A huge test will come during the six-month British EU presidency (which starts
in July).

Instead of a period of reflection - which is what everybody wants - we may see a
period of intense clandestine legislation."

Showdown day for Blair and Chirac

TONY BLAIR will face a showdown with the French President over Britain's annual
European Union rebate, at a bruising Brussels summit this week.

But a crucial week for the EU begins today with talks in Luxembourg over the
British rebate - and the future of the constitutional treaty.

Foreign Secretary Jack Straw will meet his fellow foreign ministers for two days
of talks, as the whole future of the EU is in question, after the French and
Dutch referendum rejections of the proposed treaty.

The Prime Minister will engage in a last-minute round of European shuttle
diplomacy before the showdown in Brussels on Thursday.

The treaty crisis coincides with a bitter feud over future EU spending - in
particular, the fate of the controversial rebate, which reduces Britain's
contribution to Europe's running costs by £3billion a year.

It had been hoped that this week's summit would be an opportunity to bring unity
back to the member states after the referendum debacles. That effort is being
undermined by the public disputes over the size of the EU's budget for
2007-2013.

Mr Blair is now embroiled in a slanging match with French President Jacques
Chirac, after demands that Britain should give up the rebate won by Baroness
Thatcher in 1984. He said the rebate could be discussed only if farm subsidies,
which benefit French farmers to the tune of billions, were also up for
negotiation.

President Chirac, who is backed by other EU countries on the rebate question,
has flatly refused to discuss the Common Agricultural Policy, which costs 40 per
cent of the total European Union budget of £70billion.

One EU official said: "It's bad enough trying to work out what to do now about
the constitution, without having to sort out the budget at the same time."

The rebate was granted 21 years ago, when Lady Thatcher argued that Britain did
badly out of the EU's farm subsidies and regional and social grants.

The Government argues that, even with the rebate, London pays two and a half
times more than France towards EU running costs. Without the rebate, Britain
would pay 15 times more than France and 12 times more than Italy.

Shadow Cabinet minister John Redwood said Mr Blair was "being completely
outmanoeuvred by President Chirac, allowing the British rebate to become the
subject of so much ill will".

And a senior Tory Euro-MP, Edward McMillan-Scott, told BBC Radio 4's Today
programme: "The Government has been very slow at making the case for maintaining
the rebate for the UK."

LOAD-DATE: June 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               36 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 11, 2005, Saturday

'A party of idiots, paranoiacs, whores and vagabonds'

BYLINE: By Alexander Waugh

SECTION: Books Pg. 005

LENGTH: 673 words

Cranks and Gadflies: the Story of UKIP by Mark Daniel

304pp, Timewell Press, pounds 16.99

T pounds 16.99 (plus pounds 2.25 p&p) 0870 1557222

Isn't it odd how people who group together under the banner of a shared opinion
always seem to disagree more violently among themselves than with their declared
enemies? It has always been the case. Take, for example, the early Christians.
According to the ancient record of Celsus, written in about 178 AD: "Christians
utterly detest each other, they slander each other constantly with the vilest
forms of abuse... Each sect fills the head of its own with deceitful nonsense
and makes perfect little pigs of those it wins over to its side." And so it is
with UKIP - the United Kingdom Independence Party - whose founding purpose (to
extricate Britain from the European Union) has been subsumed, in the 12 short
years since its formation, by such a torrent of plotting, denouncing, suing,
counter-suing, shrieking, back-stabbing and cussing that one wonders how many of
its members have retained any memory of why they signed up with the party in the
first place.

At a recent National Executive Council meeting one member became so livid with
rage that he suffered a heart attack and died. And what about the time when such
an almighty row broke out over who should be UKIP's leader that the party was
rent in twain and, for a while, two defiant UKIPs ran simultaneously out of two
separate offices?

In his absorbing history of the party, Mark Daniel appears to relish each
scandal as it arises, gleefully relating how UKIP's founder drained the party's
coffers to defend himself against accusations of slander and how a South East
MEP stood for election in 2004 without mentioning that he was facing charges of
housing benefit fraud (which remain subjudice and he denies fiercely).

Daniel also reveals how the party was infiltrated by the BNP activist, Mark
Deavin; how UKIP's Scottish organiser wrote to the newspapers declaring that the
Nazi holocaust was grossly exaggerated; and he describes, with seeming glee, a
party membership that is comprised of "idiots, paranoiacs and conspiracy
theorists... freelance artists... traders, whores and vagabonds".

From the outset, Daniel declares: "I have never been a party member." It might
easily be assumed from this that he is a disaffected party apparatchik whose
sole purpose is to discredit UKIP in such a way that nobody ever votes for it
again. But a couple of seconds of Google espionage reveals that Mark Daniel is
in fact a nom de plume for Mark Fitzgeorge-Parker - who stood as a UKIP
candidate in Exeter at this year's General Election, ending in sixth place with
3.37per cent of the vote. A further scrimmage into the Fitzgeorge-Parker mystery
reveals that the author enjoys something of a maverick past himself. Having been
imprisoned as a young man for issuing duff cheques and pilfering precious books
from Cambridge University libraries he used the Daniel pseudonym for a
fictionalised account of his jail experiences. After his release, he found
himself once again up in court on charges of libel and, in a parallel action,
was sued by his own father for breach of copyright.

Perhaps none of this would be relevant had Daniel not chosen to call his book
Cranks and Gadflies, a phrase drawn directly from Michael Howard's intended slur
on the UKIP membership, or if Nigel Farage, UKIP's second-in-command, had not
stood before the European Parliament denouncing individual members of Jos
Barrosa's Commission as ex-crooks, ex-communists and liars.

Daniel's purpose in this warts-and-all expos is not then, as far as I can tell,
to discredit UKIP but, on the contrary, to make it seem like a quaintly
attractive collective of "real people". "Don't mind me, I'm mad," folks used to
say to endear themselves to their school friends. That ploy didn't work then and
is unlikely to work for UKIP now. And if Daniel's high-risk public relations
experiment backfires it will cost the cranks and gadflies dearly.

LOAD-DATE: June 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               37 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                  June 9, 2005

A sense of proportion

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 58

LENGTH: 906 words


QUESTION Had the General Election been fought under the proportional
representation (PR) system proposed by the Liberal Democrats, how would the
Commons look now?

IT'S impossible to predict exactly what voters would do if confronted with a
system other than firstpastthe-post.

Only one or two party candidates can realistically hope to win in most seats in
the country at present, so many people vote tactically. Under a system by which
virtually all parties could win seats, this wouldn't arise.

Any of the several types of proportional voting systems would have produced a
slightly different result.

Had everyone voted as they did on May 5, a pure PR system (as is used in Israel)
would have given 227 seats to Labour (instead of 355), 209 to Conservatives
(instead of 197), 142 to the Liberal Democrats (62) and 68 to others, including
15 to UKIP and six to the Greens. But this system would destroy the constituency
link and isn't advocated by electoral reformers in the UK.

The system proposed by the Liberal Democrats, backed by the Electoral Reform
Society, is the single transferable vote (STV), as used in Australia and Ireland
- and being introduced for council elections in Scotland.

Voters rank candidates in order of preference and between three and five MPs are
elected in each constituency. Larger constituencies would mean there is no
overall increase in the number of MPs.

This gives voters the choice between candidates of the same party as well as
between parties. It means that there are no 'safe' seats and no need for
tactical voting.

It maintains a constituency link and would mean the vast majority of voters
having an MP from their favourite party.

STV allows voters so much Good PR: Israel's Parliament (Knesset) in session
choice that it's difficult to predict the precise makeup of the Commons, had it
been used.

Our best estimate is that we would have seen about 245 Labour MPs, 214
Conservatives, 145 Liberal Democrats and 42 others. There would probably be
several UKIP MPs and a small number of Greens.

Any broadly proportional system would not have produced an overall majority in
the Commons for any party after last month's vote.

But, considering that Labour won only 36 per cent of the votes cast, it can be
reasonably suggested that no party deserves such a majority.

At about 21 per cent of the entire electorate, this is the lowest vote for a
winning party ever. Most countries which use PR have stable coalition
governments where the best parts of each party's manifesto are put together to
form a programme for government.

The Scottish Parliament, elected by a PR system, has had a stable coalition
government since it was created in 1999.

Alex Folkes, www.electoral-reform.org.uk

QUESTION

Is it 'blue and green' or 'red and green' that 'should never be seen'? Why?

THIS ancient, anonymous maxim runs 'red and green are seldom seen - except upon
a fool' and refers to the quartered colours on the costume of the medieval
jester whose traditional name was Fool.

The two colours are essentially mutually exclusive in terms of harmony, even of
a contrasting variety.

The late Canadian novelist Donald Mackenzie described a female character wearing
red with green as 'aiming desperately for chic, but achieving the effect of a
walking Christmas Tree'.

Bryan Owram, Esholt, W. Yorkshire.

QUESTION I have a vague World War II memory-of a small-arms command: 'Ease
springs!' What exactly did this require?

FURTHER to the earlier answer, some years ago I attended a diningin night in the
Officer's Mess, RAF Coningsby in Lincolnshire. The formalities and tradition of
the occasion meant no one was permitted to leave the tables to answer a call of
nature until given the word.

After the fourth course and several glasses of wine, many were getting rather
uncomfortable until the president rose to his feet and said: 'Ladies may powder
their noses and gentlemen may Ease Springs.' Never before has there been such a
rush to the little rooms.

John Beacock, Old Basing, Hants.

QUESTION What was the cushiest posting one could be given during National
Service days? What was the worst?

FURTHER to earlier answers, my late husband did his National Service training at
Catterick during the cold, bleak winter of 1947.

He was told that he was likely to spend the next two years abroad and was given
all the necessary medical jabs.

Before the off, he was given two weeks' leave to say his goodbyes and, being a
good young lad, he visited his grandmothers and various aunts and uncles, all of
whom made a tearful fuss of him, plying him with food and money for his journey.

He reported back excitedly awaiting his posting, and finally received it -
Hounslow, just six Tube stops from his home in Fulham.

Rosina Males, Fulham, London.

QUESTIONS

Q: Is there anyone in the country with the unfortunate initials MRSA?

Oliver Brown, Bristol.

Q: If Tolkien based The Shire, where the hobbits lived in The Lord Of The Rings,
on Shropshire, where was Mordor?

Jon Holland, Bishopswood, Staffs.

Q: Why were eight of the 12 820ft radio masts at Rugby radio station - which
enabled the world's most powerful transmitter to provide international LF and
VLF radio coverage, 24 hours a day, for more than three-quarters of a century -
recently demolished?

Jeremy Crampton, Melton Mowbray, Leics.

LOAD-DATE: June 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                               38 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 9, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Fathers4Justice: Doing the splits

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 349 words


News that Fathers4Justice has broken into two rival groups makes for
bitter-sweet reading. After two and a half years, the campaign best known for
its high- profile Batman and Santa Claus stunts is splitting - and the divorce
is proving to be ugly. Though united in their view that the present system of
family courts is unfair to fathers, the two wings of F4J now agree about little
else. One believes that it may be time to settle down and negotiate with the
legal establishment. The other prefers to go on dressing up as cartoon heroes,
climbing up famous buildings and handcuffing themselves to prominent public
figures.

Little of this will surprise students of religious and political protest
movements. The angry fathers are following in the footsteps of the nuclear
disarmament movement of the 1950s, which split between the peaceful CND and the
direct action Committee of 100, or the anti-Vietnam war movement, which also
divided between marchers and militants. More bloodily, the IRA provides an
outstanding example; the division between offi cials and provisionals has in
turn given way to a more recent split between the provisionals and the "real"
IRA. The direct action wing of F4J paid tribute to that precedent yesterday by
dubbing itself the "real F4J". Yet beware. If Irish history is any guide, the
two wings of F4J may soon be spending more time attacking one another than their
supposed common enemy.

The byways of political and religious history are littered with the debris of
small, often single-issue sectarian movements whose members have found it
impossible to stay together. The wreck of Veritas, formerly part of Ukip, which
in turn metamophosed from the Referendum party is the most striking recent
example. Splits among leftwing parties are legion. Few can emulate the Socialist
party of Great Britain, which is once said to have expelled people when
membership levels rose, on the grounds that there could not be that many true
socialists in Britain. But F4J is heading down a surprisingly well-trodden road
on which almost anything is possible.


LOAD-DATE: June 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               39 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             June 7, 2005, Tuesday

'TRANSITION TO PR SYSTEM IS INEVITABLE " AND IT HAS BEGUN';
 CAMPAIGN FOR DEMOCRACY

BYLINE: BY MARIE WOOLF CHIEF POLITICAL CORRESPONDEN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 657 words


Britain's leading authority on voting methods believes that moving to a
proportional representation system is now 'inevitable' and that the 'transition'
to reform has already begun.

In a paper to be published next month, Professor Patrick Dunleavy of the London
School of Economics argues that it is only a matter of time until Labour
switches to PR to bolster its declining position. The analysis by Britain's top
academic authority is a boost to The Independent's Campaign for Democracy which
has so far attracted more than 35,000 responses from readers.

By yesterday 20,645 people had filled in forms calling on Tony Blair to
introduce a more proportional system so 'the result of a general election is
more representative of their wishes'. A further 14,704 have signed a petition on
The Independent's website calling for reform.

Professor Dunleavy's analysis of voting patterns found that the establishment of
a 'multi-party' system " which traditionally precedes the move from a
first-past-the-post voting system to PR " 'has already happened' in Britain.

The analysis of voting in the UK, has found that on average five parties " such
as the Greens, Scottish or Welsh Nationalists and UKIP " stand in elections and
attract a significant share of the vote.

Evidence from other countries which have switched to PR show that the
establishment of a multi-party system is the precursor to electoral reform.
Government or 'incumbent elites' delay switching to PR until they 'are forced to
do so by the electorate'.

He warns that if the main political parties continue to resist the introduction
of PR then 'the risk of incumbents losing elections catastrophically will grow'.

It only a matter of time before incumbent elites " currently the Labour Party "
to 'decide that it is in their own interest to avoid the risk of losing out
completely and instead try to stabilise their vote share and legislative
representation by introducing a PR electoral system.'

Professor Dunleavy, professor of political science, who helped to frame the
voting system for the London mayoral elections and advised the Jenkins review on
PR, says that 'some form of transition of representation at Westminster seems
inevitable as existing multi-party politics develops further.'

Professor Dunleavy's analysis, published in next month's Parliamentary Affairs
journal, draws on research showing that, where the shift to PR has occurred
abroad, 'the effective number of parties grows before they make the change, and
does not subsequently grow further after PR.'

In the UK there is now a 'long running trend' to vote for a wide range of
parties in Britain, reducing the share of the vote for the Tories and Labour.

Organisations in favour of electoral reform urged Tony Blair to embrace PR
before the Labour Government is forced into it.

'First past the post worked reasonably well when it was a two-party culture in
Britain, but now we are a multi-party democracy it produces results that are
skewed and unrepresentative of people's views,' said Nina Temple, the director
of Make Votes Count.

'It's time that the Government stopped living in denial and embraced reform as a
positive means of reconnecting politics to the public.'

Labour gained a 67-seat majority in the Commons at the general election last
month with just over 35 per cent of the vote and the support of only 22 per cent
of the electorate.

Dear Mr Blair,

I believe that the result of this month's election, in which your government was
elected with a 67-seat majority on 36% of the popular vote and with the support
of 22% of the electorate, is a subversion of our democracy.

I call on you, in your final term as Prime Minister, to institute urgent reform
of our voting system so that the British people are encouraged to believe that
their votes count and that the result of a general election is more
representative of their wishes.

LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               40 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 6, 2005

EU'S £2M VOTE FLOP

LENGTH: 62 words


EURO chiefs spent £2.1million promoting the EU constitution in France and
Holland -but now claim voters rejected it out of ignorance.

The blitz involved 44 million copies of the treaty sent to every French voter.

But ex-commissioner Lord Kinnock said: "There has been a triumph of ignorance"
UKIP MEP Nigel Farage called the publicity a "shocking waste".


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               41 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                  June 6, 2005

EU'S £2M VOTE FLOP

LENGTH: 78 words


EURO chiefs spent £2.1million promoting the EU constitution in France and
Holland -but now claim voters rejected it out of ignorance.

The blitz involved leaflets, posters and DVDs -and 44million copies of the
constitution sent to every French voter.

But ex-commissioner Lord Kinnock said: "No government has explained what the
European Union does. There's been a triumph of ignorance."

UKIP MEP Nigel Farage called the publicity a "shocking waste".


LOAD-DATE: June 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                               42 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                              June 3, 2005, Friday

THE VOTERS OF EUROPE ARE DEMANDING MORE DEMOCRACY, NOT MORE FREE MARKETS

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 1087 words


The story of this week's Non and Nee votes is like an Agatha Christie thriller
with an especially perplexing twist. We know who the killer is " the French and
Dutch people. We know they knifed something in the ballot box. But the question
is: what exactly did they kill?

Of course, it is the blood of the European constitution that was found at the
scene. A few hardy souls " Jacques Chirac, Bertie Ahern " might try to give
mouth-to-mouth to the corpse, but it is no good: a quick, tearful funeral is
best for everyone. But we all know something else something died with the
constitution. The only problem is that nobody can agree about the identity of
the real victim.

For the most foaming of Eurosceptics, the answer is obvious: the European Union
itself. Roger Knapman, leader of the United Kingdom Independence Party,
describes this vote as 'the beginning of the end for the European project'. The
French and Dutch peoples have killed the very idea of a transnational body
stretching from the shores of the Atlantic to the mountains of the Urals. They
have asserted their desire to return to the Europe of the late 19th century: a
place of sovereign, independent states.

But is this true? The Non and Nee camps (apart from the Le Pennite fringes)
argued that a rejection of this constitution was not a rejection of the EU
itself. The French left campaigned for a pro-European 'no', arguing for a
different Europe, not no Europe at all. The polls show there is no majority for
withdrawal from the EU in France, the Netherlands or indeed any European
country.

Detective Tony Blair has identified a very different victim. Speaking from Italy
on the night of the long Non, he said, 'The question that is being debated by
the people of Europe is how do you, in this era of globalisation, make our
economies strong and competitive?' For Blair, these votes were an expression of
rage against the French and Dutch political elites, because they have failed to
deliver decent employment rates and growth. Stuck in a stagnant economic bog,
the voters simply chose to kick their leaders in the ballots. Never mind the
detail of the constitution; just feel the anger.

So for New Labour, the casualty is the social Europe promoted by the French and
German governments. Say goodbye to a Europe of high regulation, high
tax-and-spend, and slow growth, they say with a smile.

But this is no more plausible than the Eurosceptic denoument. The whole thrust
of the Non campaign was that the proposed constitution would impose
Anglo-American capitalism and crush the wings of France's generous welfare
state.

Whether Blair likes it or not, Western Europe is committed to a different kind
of capitalism than the cold Atlantic model. The peoples of France, Germany and
Spain have understood that " once a certain level of prosperity has been
achieved " scrambling desperately for more, more, more doesn't bring sufficient
increases in human happiness. They do not want to work 60 hours a week, 50 weeks
a year, and rarely see their children. They do not want vertiginous income
inequality, a retreat into gated communities, and 2 million people rotting in
jail. They do not " in other words " want to become like America.

It is a myth to suggest that Europe must strangle its social model if it wants
to succeed. The Swedes have a lavish welfare state married to a healthy economy
and the best social mobility in the world. (Ironically, they are achieving the
American dream far better than America itself. All the figures show a poor
Swedish child is far more likely to become rich in his lifetime than a poor
American kid). German social democracy is in chaos today not because it is
inherently flawed, but because a few years ago it had a collapsing communist
economy bolted on to its side. If Britain had to absorb and subsidise Albania,
do you imagine we would be doing any better?

So, Mesdames et Messieurs, the victim of the events of the past week is not the
EU itself, nor the social model of Western Europe. Mais non! I have gathered you
here in the library today to reveal that the victim is ... Jean Monnet.

You may not recall him. He was the man with the garlic who you saw first at the
beginning of this story, mes amis. Monnet was one of the first exponents of the
European ideal, and his Europe was built on protecting the peoples of Europe
from themselves. He believed in a technocratic, top-down Europe that kept its
functions deliberately vague and was (at best) equivocal about the will of the
people.

Monnet's vision was an important phase in the development of Europe. In a
continent devastated by demagogic Nazism, his cautious Europe of elites was a
necessary antidote. But it has persisted for far too long. Pro- Europeanism has
remained in the paternalistic, people-fearing mould of Monnet, even in the age
of Google and mass referenda. Its powers have raced ahead of the mechanisms of
democratic accountability.

The best arguments offered by the nay-sayers were all about Europe's democratic
deficit. How can we transfer huge powers over the way we live to institutions
unaccountable to us? True, the constitution contained a handful of democratising
measures: the introduction of Swiss-style referenda that permit a million
citizens to force legislation on to the EU agenda, along with greater powers to
national parliamentarians to monitor European legislation. But overall, Valery
Giscard d'Estaing had written a Monnetian constitution: unreadable, technical,
legalistic, and written for a handful of civil servants rather than Europe's 450
million citizens.

The EU is a rolling, rollicking experiment in transnational government. It is
the nature of experiments that they sometimes go wrong and must be put right.
The solution is not to vandalise the European Union itself and return to a
continent of snarling 19th-century states. It is to begin the slow, tough
process of properly democratising the EU " making sure that every decision is
checked by the people's representatives " and building a popular
pro-Europeanism.

It's a gargantuan challenge, but the possibility of continuing with a remote,
technocratic Europe died this week. The EU's soundtrack cannot consist solely of
Monnet's 1950s speeches, spliced with a few tracks of 1980s neo-liberalism. If
we don't begin building a popular democratic EU now, we will be calling on
Hercule Poirot to explain European mysteries at the ballot-box far into the
distant future.

j.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               43 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 3, 2005, Friday

To leaders in Alice's magical land, it was a 'yes'

BYLINE: Anthony Browne, Brussels Correspondent

SECTION: Overseas news; 35

LENGTH: 848 words


THE warped-cross "Berlaymonster" headquarters of the European Commission was
still standing yesterday. The announcements poured out -on the welfare of
broiler chickens, carbon dioxide trading schemes, telephone regulation and
approval for the takeover of a Finnish copper company.

Workmen continued constructing vast new offices for the Council of Ministers.
The subsidised canteens echoed with the polylingual chatter of well-heeled
functionaries.

The EU has been plunged into its deepest crisis for fifty years after two of its
founding members overwhelmingly rejected its proposed constitution. But in
Europe's capital there was little sign that anything had changed. Berlaymont was
a place in denial.

Although 54 per cent of the French voted "non", and 62 per cent of the Dutch
said "nee", few were prepared to admit that Europe's elite had lost touch with
the people, and that in their relentless drive for integration they had left
their citizens far behind. In the Alice-in-Wonderland world of Brussels "no" has
been interpreted as "yes".

As Jean-Claude Juncker, the Prime Minister of Luxembourg, which holds the EU's
rotating presidency, said after the French vote: "If we were to add up all the
votes of those who wanted 'more Europe' as a 'yes', then I think that we would
have had a 'yes' vote."

In her Ikea-furnished office, Margot Wallstrom, the Commission's Swedish
VicePresident, produced a poll showing that 57 per cent of the French who
rejected the constitution actually wanted more European integration. "A majority
who said 'no' are favourable to the whole European project," she insisted. "It
is not that they have said no to the idea of European integration. It is not a
rejection of the European project."

The lesson was that the EU needed to create more European feeling in its
citizens, she said. "We have to build more meeting places. We have to create a
European public space. We need a European debate. There are still hardly any
media that are truly European. For political parties, we need a political system
that can work more at a European level."

Although French and Dutch polls showed that the more people knew about the
constitution, the more likely they were to vote "no", Mrs Wallstrom insisted
that the problem was ignorance. "It is serious when seven out of ten Europeans
still say they know little about Europe. It will take a lot of leadership to
create more knowledge," she said. Mr Juncker said of his tiny country: "We are
like teachers, explaining the ins and outs of the new constitution."

When Francoise le Bail, the Commission spokeswoman, explained to the Brussels
press corps the morning after the French vote why "no" did not really mean "no"
- because people voted "no" for so many different reasons -an American
journalist burst out: "In my country we have a saying, 'What part of no don't
you understand?' You don't seem to understand any part of no."

Three days later, after the Dutch rejected the constitution in far greater
numbers than the French, and in far greater numbers than anyone expected, Jan
Peter Balkenende, the Prime Minister, said: "I am very disappointed, but there
are positive aspects -like the high turnout and the fact we had a debate."

But his Government clearly lost the debate, and the people turned out in high
numbers -twice the rate at last year's European elections -to tell it so. Even
after the Dutch defeat, European political leaders insisted that the vote was
not against the constitution. The European Green Party rushed out a statement
saying: " 'No' in France and Holland does not mean 'no' to the European
constitution."

Grazia Francescato, the party spokesman, added: "It is evident that this 'no'
vote is not a real 'no' against the constitution, but a vote of protest
against...

the neoliberal policies of their governments."

Surveys suggest that the French voted against the treaty because they are
opposed to the EU's free-market economic policies, worried about enlargement and
wanted to punish the unpopular President Chirac. In the Netherlands, surveys
indicated that the Dutch protested against EU enlargement, the euro, the cost of
the EU, its remoteness, its bureaucracy and just about any other EU complaint
they could think of.

But for Mr Juncker this did not mean they or the French were annoyed at the EU.
He said: "We have a range of contradictory reasons behind the 'no' vote. The
arguments in France contradict other arguments in France. Now there are another
set of contradictions between arguments in the Netherlands." His conclusion was
that "we need to continue with our ambitious projects".

An Irish journalist retorted: "This reminds me of the Titanic, where the
orchestra carried on playing." Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence
Party in the European Parliament, hid at the back and listened to the EU
defending itself. "It's wonderful, just wonderful," he laughed. "They just don't
get it, do they? They just don't get it."

Letters, page 18

Leading article, page 19

Gerard Baker, page 21


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               44 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                              June 3, 2005, Friday

Great and the good give their verdicts on European project

BYLINE: Rajeev Syal, Charlotte Newton, Michelle Henery, Grainne Gilmore, Richard
Owen,

SECTION: Overseas news; 36

LENGTH: 2326 words


Now that French and Dutch voters have had their say on the constitution, The
Times asks opinion-formers from all over the continent for their thoughts on the
past, present and future of Europe.

* Lord Lamont of Lerwick, Chancellor of the Exchequer 1990-93, who took Britain
out of the European Monetary System:

"Europe needs to be completely rethought. Is the EU really necessary? What is
its point? The EU has become a bloated, arrogant bureaucracy performing needless
tasks, and always concerned to increase its own power.

"We now have an opportunity to build a freely trading Europe of 25 independent
countries, working together. Power should be restored to national governments.
The powers of the European Commission should be drastically reduced to make them
into a conventional civil service.

"The Europe of 25 should concentrate on its most important task of integrating
the former communist states into the European economy. The single market needs
to be completed, which it never is. Europe should co-operate on foreign affairs
when the interests of different countries coincide."

* Luca Cordero di Montezemolo, head of Fiat and Ferrari and president of
Confindustria (Italian CBI):

"The French and Dutch votes are a negative fact. But as we say in Italian, not
everything bad has a harmful outcome and in this case we, paradoxically, have an
opportunity to relaunch Europe on a different basis. I believe in a strong
Europe, but one that is less bureaucratic and closer to its citizens. We need an
integrated foreign policy, but also an integrated industrial policy, and not
just a commercial policy. I welcome the fact that Britain inherits the rotating
EU presidency on July 1 because Tony Blair is ideally placed to help to get
Europe out of this impasse and to relaunch the European project on a new basis."

* Glenys Kinnock, Labour MEP:

"I think this is clearly the moment when we step back, take a deep breath and
look at the way we manage things. People want more accurate, factual
information. I think things have been going too fast. We all felt a warm glow
when ten new countries joined last year, but there were grave concerns among the
citizens of Europe, which we did not address. I think it would be wrong to
bulldoze on with ratification of the constitution, but we could look at
technical issues, such as voting rights, which we could implement for
efficiency. The EU exists and it has a very important future for all Europeans."

* Stelios Haji-Ioannou, founder of easyJet and easyGroup:

"I think that for business it is really 'business as usual' in Europe. The
rejection of a common European constitution by the French and Dutch electorate
was a vote of protest against their politicians, not against the concept of a
single economic market."

* Felipe Fernandez-Armesto, Professor of Global Environmental History at Queen
Mary, University of London, and author of The Times Illustrated History of
Europe:

"There are two possible courses for the powers that be in Europe. The first is
to use this opportunity to pause because the pace of integration has been too
fast.

The second is to use this as an opportunity for greater enlargement, and think
seriously about including Turkey. I would be in favour of Europhiles such as
myself using this opportunity to pause. It means we can throw away this
constitution, which was ill- conceived, poorly presented and was always bound to
alienate a majority of people.

"The problem was the way the document was drafted. Wild horses had dragged it
into the dust, throwing up enormous clouds of confusion."

* Sir Menzies Campbell, Liberal Democrat foreign affairs spokesman:

"When the dust has settled there will still be a European Union of 25 countries
with a constitutional framework based on the five existing treaties: Rome, the
Single European Act, Maastricht, Amsterdam and Nice. To retreat from a union to
a free trade area, as some are now arguing, would be foolish.

"As presently constituted the Union has become a bulwark of stability and a
beacon of democracy. The future of the former Warsaw Pact countries has been
assured by their membership of Nato and of the EU.

"We must not allow an admitted reverse to undermine the achievements of the last
50 years. In particular, we should be increasing co-operation in foreign affairs
so that Europe can speak with a single voice when its members agree to do so.
What is now needed is a period of calm reflection and not an outbreak of
collective hysteria."

* Angela Merkel, conservative leader of the German Opposition, in a speech after
being nominated to challenge Gerhard Schroder in the autumn general election:

"This shows the alienation between Europe and its people. People are justifiably
worried that the borders of Europe are not clearly defined. This alienation must
be addressed and that is why I am firmly convinced we need an honest discussion
about Turkish membership."

* Lord Brittan of Spennithorne, former Vice-President of the European
Commission:

"The important point is to achieve the right policies for the EU, rather than
seeking to ratify or amend the existing constitution. The first important policy
is to increase free trade and economic liberalisation within the EU and
throughout the rest of the world. The second important policy that the EU should
endeavour to achieve is to strengthen its political role and standing in the
world."

* Paul van Buitenen, independent Dutch MEP:

"People voting 'no' used a wide range of arguments. Most did not appeal to me.

There is no single solution. What is very important for me, but was not
sufficiently emphasised, is that the constitution is a rotten document. It would
have led to a superpower with no democratic framework. It was a huge monster.

Fortunately, the French shot it and the Dutch stabbed it in the back. To
represent it simply would not work."

* Justine Greening, new Tory MP for Putney:

"It was the height of arrogance for European leaders, including our own Prime
Minister, to sign the EU constitution before people had a chance to say whether
they wanted it or not. The French and Dutch 'no' votes should be respected and
acted upon by European leaders, not ignored. That should mean the constitution
is dead."

* Hubert Vedrine, French Foreign Minister 1997-2002:

"The Dutch 'no' shows that the crisis is European and not just French. That
confirms my idea that there is an integrationist elite, in other words a group
of leaders who believe that a forced march is necessary whatever the criticism
from the people.

"There is a gigantic gulf. Maastricht was an early-warning signal. It earned 49
per cent 'no' in France in 1992 but the elites marched on, blaming opposition on
the extreme Right and the nationalists. In the Netherlands, the reasons for the
'no' are more pupulist and linked to the question of immigration than in France
but the two countries have a common desire by the people to retain a degree of
sovereignty. Everything that we have heard from Brussels this week is absurd and
astounding. It is not serious to carry on like this. Ratification does not mean
anything any more and it would be useless and masochistic for Blair to hold a
referendum."

* Miles Templeman, director-general of the Institute of Directors:

"The French and Dutch referendums have taught us two valuable lessons. First, on
the political front, there is a lot of mistrust, confusion and uncertainty, that
seems to span across much of the continent.

"Secondly, economic performance across much of the EU has been poor for some
time, creating a climate of instability. The key to the future, from a British
business point of view, is to take time to rebuild trust again with the people
of Europe."

* Alessandra Mussolini, MEP, leader of the Social Alternative Party,
granddaughter of Il Duce:

"The people of France and the Netherlands have expressed a view held by many of
us: that European integration has been imposed on the peoples of Europe from
above by a self-serving bureaucratic elite, which ignores the opinions of
citizens. I cannot understand why Italians were not given the chance to have
their own say in a referendum on the constitution, or for that matter on the
euro, which has impoverished all social classes. I intend to introduce a Bill in
the European Parliament calling for the euro to be suspended."

* Michael Spencer, chief executive of ICAP, the world's largest money broker:

"I don't think the EU will fall apart over this. The votes will tell the
political elite that there is no public appetite for more centralisation in
Europe. I hope that a move towards a federal European superstate is now over. We
should revisit the original economic ideal for Europe, which encouraged
free-trade."

* Carol Vorderman, television presenter and campaigner against the euro:

"I don't think that we in Britain should now have a vote on the constitution. It
is dead in the water. But I have suspicions that it will come back to us,
slightly modified, because there are many politicians who want to see it
through.

"I believe that we should return to the first principles of the European
project.

The Common Market was originally about free trade. Since then, the EU has has
taken on a life of its own, and politicians in Britain and Brussels have tried
to force upon us all kinds of other rules and regulations without reference, and
on our behalf.

"I don't want people to think that I am small-minded. I am of Dutch origin, my
brother lives in Holland, I am pro-immigration. But I do have problems with our
sovereignty being handed over to an unaccountable body."

* Philippe de Villiers, MP, president of Mouvement pour la France, the main
conservative Eurosceptic group in the French Parliament:

"After the Dutch 'no', the European constitution is like a decapitated duck that
is still running around. France is not isolated since the Netherlands, another
founding member of the Union, has refused the treaty. President Chirac must now
lead four European initiatives: immediate suspension of Turkish entry to the
Union; the re-establishment of quotas on Chinese textile imports; reimposition
of passport controls at internal EU frontiers; send the constitution back to the
drawing board."

* Nigel Farage, leader of the UKIP delegation to the European Parliament:

"Thank God there were referendums. These things are so important they cannot be
delivered by the political class alone. I have no doubt they will halt the
referendum process. To do otherwise would be masochistic."

* Jan Rokita, the leader of Poland's Conservative Opposition:

The future of Europe depends on the ability to reform, to reduce tax, to
deregulate labour markets, to unify service markets and to reduce buraucracy. It
depends on co-operation with the US and on the ability to create common European
foreign policy towards Russia.

We should construct a front of nations which support the internal reform of
Europe and transatlantic co-operation. We should negotiate: prepare a new,
short, understandable text designating how institutions will function. If this
proves impossible then we should give up on the constitution completely.

* Luke Johnson, the chairman of Channel 4:

"There is a huge flaw in the question, 'What now for Europe?' It should be 'What
now for the EU?' The EU has abused the language in its attempts to interchange
EU and Europe. The EU is an artificial construct. It is an anti-democratic
machine, a bureaucratic nightmare. I am pro-Europe, but opposed to the EU, which
is not Europe. It is very difficult to predict what will happen to the
constitution now. The economic problems of the eurozone countries are a major
issue and will continue to weigh heavily on the 'eurozone project' and many of
the issues that these countries are encountering, including whether or not to
break away from the euro, will now be open for debate. Overall, I believe that
the events of this week were wonderful news. It was a true show of democracy by
the people of France and the Netherlands."

* Lucy Powell, campaign director, Britain in Europe:

"The constitutional treaty cannot survive 'no' votes from two founder members of
the EU. It is better to accept that Europe's much improved rulebook will not be
ratified, and move on as best we can. The challenges that led to the need for
institutional reform will not go away, if anything they will become more acute.
It may be possible at a later date for Europe's leaders to make the case for
changing the treaties and bring all their peoples with them."

* Michael Sturmer, author of The German Empire -A Short History and Professor of
History at the University of Erlangen-Nuremberg:

"Economic integration will continue. Any Plan B needs to keep building the
single market and co-operation on security and defence.

"But I would avoid using the term constitution, it sounds too much like a
federal state. Turkey must stay outside the EU at all costs. It would saddle the
EU with the sort of problems the bloc already has on a much smaller scale and
cannot even solve. Turkey would bring a huge poverty problem into the EU, a huge
agricultural problem, the Kurdish problem, the whole bloody burden of the Middle
East."

* Marta Andreasen, the European Commission's former accounting officer,
suspended after "whistle-blowing":

"It does not surprise me that people do not trust the EU's institutions and are
not prepared to give them more power, which is what the constitution would do.

Nothing changes. Europe will continue to operate in the same way for at least
three years. People in the street feel they have no control over the whole
project and no input."

* Interviews: Rajeev Syal, Charlotte Newton, Michelle Henery, Grainne Gilmore,
Richard Owen, Charles Bremner, David Crossland, Rory Watson and Kamil Tchorek


LOAD-DATE: June 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               45 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            June 02, 2005, Thursday

Alliance goes from band to banned

BYLINE: By Henry Deedes

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 021

LENGTH: 300 words

The passion of Countryside Alliance supporters continues to boil over, this time
at Uppingham School in Rutland.

The 400-year-old public school - alma mater of Stephen Fry and radio presenter
Johnny Vaughan - has angered pro-hunting pupils by refusing to allow them to
wear the Alliance's trendy new red and green bracelets, which have been designed
to express support for the organisation.

"It's a disgrace," moans one downtrodden young scamp. "A few of us have been
wearing the bands because we want to express our support for the countryside.

"A lot of the boys here wear wristbands which highlight various other campaigns,
but it's only these specific ones that we've been told we cannot wear. Frankly,
the whole things reeks of chippiness."

When I phone headmaster Stephen Winkley, he appears keen to distance himself
from the row.

"Like a lot of headmasters many things happen here that I'm not fully aware of,"
he says politely.

After Veritas's disastrous showing in the general election, the party's Greater
London Assembly members - and UKIP defectors - Damian Hockney and Peter
Hulme-Cross - are now rather sneakily backtracking by claiming to represent the
UKIP/Veritas party.

The move has understandably drawn an irate response from UKIP's MEP for London,
Gerard Batten.

"You have no authority to use the name UKIP in this way," says a leaked memo to
the pair which has arrived on my desk.  "You may not use the name UK
Independence Party or UKIP in order to form a group in the London Assembly.
Please desist from doing so."

The letter continues much in the same vein, and concludes:"You personally have
no credibility left to offer.  I suggest that the honourable course for you to
take is to resign your seat and make way for a UKIP candidate to take your
place."

LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               46 of 46 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                  June 2, 2005

Election begins in the seat time forgot: Campaigning resumes in Tory stronghold
where the big issue is airport expansion - and where all the candidates are
united in opposition

BYLINE: Tania Branigan Political correspondent

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 800 words


If you thought the general election seemed interminable, spare a thought for the
voters of South Staffordshire. It's not over yet.

This rural constituency is the seat that time forgot: the campaign began on
Tuesday, with the issuing of the election writ, and will not end until the polls
close at 10pm on June 23.

The untimely death of the Liberal Democrat candidate, Jo Harrison, halted the
general election in this seat less than a fortnight before polling day. An
obscure clause of the Representation of the People Act demands that elections
are called again if any candidate dies during the campaign.

Yet South Staffordshire appears unmoved by this drama and immune to election
fever. It is not hard to see why. "It's been Conservative as long as I've been
alive," said John Jones, 28, who will not bother voting. "I couldn't even name
the other candidates."

The Tory grandee Sir Patrick Cormack has held this seat for 35 years; his
majority stands at 7,000. The Lib Dems trail the Labour challengers by a further
10,000 votes. None of this makes for a thrilling contest; and the nature of the
seat, a patchwork of farming areas and dormitory villages for the West Midlands
conurbation, hardly facilitates intense electioneering.

But there is a single, incendiary issue which threatens to consume this
campaign. Speak to a candidate and talk soon turns to the proposed expansion of
the grandly named Wolverhampton Business airport - at present little more than a
runway and industrial estate - to take passenger planes.

This is so unpopular that on a quiet Tuesday morning the Labour candidate, Paul
Kalinauckas, was demonstrating outside it. It is so unpopular that Sir Patrick
is the patron of the anti-expansion campaign. It is so unpopular that Jo Crotty,
the new Lib Dem candidate, cited it as the number one issue for voters. Malcolm
Hurst, the Ukip candidate, insisted he wanted to see it halted even as he stood
inside the airport.

In fact, it is so widely opposed that planning permission was refused. And while
there is concern about proposals for smaller changes at the site, there seems
little imminent prospect of the county council approving those.

In short, it is an issue on which every party agrees. This is welcome news for
Sir Patrick, to whom all opponents are lovely chaps or delightful ladies (he has
yet to meet Ms Crotty, but hastens to add that she "sounds charming", lest she
feel left out).

A long-term advocate of cross-party cooperation, he quotes his friend Tam
Dalyell on a forthcoming leaflet. His idea of cut-throat campaigning is to chide
Ukip and Labour in a press release beginning: "Sir Patrick Cormack today
expressed a degree of amused bewilderment . . . "

"I always fight elections very much on my own manifesto," he says cheerfully. "I
never have any of the Central Office rubbish, and when they produced that
ghastly poster accusing Tony Blair of being a liar, I said, 'We're not having
that in South Staffordshire.' That's not my style."

Sir Patrick has the sonorous tones of an old-fashioned Conservative, but a
maverick CV. True, he served on the executive of the 1922 committee until the
election and has voted consistently against the extension of gay rights.

But he grew up in Grimsby and worked as a teacher before entering parliament as
a self-styled "Disraelian Tory" who opposed the poll tax, the abolition of the
GLC and the restriction of benefits for asylum seekers. He says he has helped
30,000 constituents since taking the seat, then Cannock, from the Labour heroine
Jennie Lee.

Mr Kalinauckas argues that voters still feel short-changed by Sir Patrick.
"South Staffordshire has been underrepresented. A Labour MP can make more
difference, because he can get to the heart of government," he insists.
Curiously, however, he seems more con cerned about the Lib Dems, devoting a page
of his leaflet to the yellow peril.

Supporters stress that "local campaigner" Dr Crotty stood in Eddisbury in the
north-west on May 5. One might surmise that their main concern is defending the
10,000-vote gap between the two parties in light of the national 5% swing from
Labour to the Lib Dems last month.

Dr Crotty, who stresses that she lives in the county, believes she can pick up
votes from both Labour and the Tories, owing to Sir Patrick's support for the
Iraq war. Then again, so does Ukip's Mr Hurst, who points out that the party
took 26% of the regional vote in last year's European elections.

For all these reasons the second, third and fourth places could make interesting
reading. But short of Sir Patrick personally piloting a 747 into Wolverhampton
Business airport, he should be back in parliament before his colleagues break
for the summer recess.

guardian.co.uk/politics


LOAD-DATE: June 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited
