
                               1 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 31, 2005, Monday

Less fudge, more facts about EU constitution

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 21

LENGTH: 194 words

SIR - Denis MacShane's letter (Jan 28) contains one statement magnifying
something of no importance and one statement downplaying something of great
importance. His reference to a greater role for national parliaments presumably
refers to the new measures under subsidiarity contained in protocol two of the
treaty. This provides that, if a third of national parliaments object to a
proposed EU measure, the relevant EU institution must "review" the measure.
Having done this, they can carry on regardless. All they need to do is say why
they disagree with the objections.

Mr MacShane's "simpler decision-making" sounds good, perhaps. What he did not
say is that this will happen because the veto will be removed in around 60 areas
- according to the British Management Data Foundation's analysis. In addition,
the treaty contains six new "passerelle" clauses allowing the Council of
Ministers to vote by unanimity to remove the unanimity requirement in a
particular area. As Mr MacShane says, the EU under the new treaty would be more
flexible. But the price would be a vice-like grip on the member states.

Dr Peter Gardner

Ukip PPC Oxford East

Oxford

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               2 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 31, 2005

THEN AGAIN, HE COULD BE ON TO SOMETHING WITH FREE BROTHELS. . .; HICKEY

BYLINE: HICKEY

SECTION: Scottish Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 15

LENGTH: 101 words


A LETTER from Mr John Houston, the United Kingdom Independence Party's first
candidate in Scotland.

Among his policies are: a restoration of the Empire, killing the criminally
insane and distributing their organs among the needy, and people who work for
the community being entitled to a number of free brothel visits per annum. I
scratch my head. Is this real or a spoof from my second cousin, Sir Albert
Bowker, currently resident in the Limerick Asylum for Nervous Disorders?

But no, it's real and - one swift phone call later - Mr Houston is no longer a
parliamentary candidate for UKIP.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                               3 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 31, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Lessons of the salamander: By invoking the spirit of Enoch
Powell, Michael Howard is attempting to call disillusioned Tories home

BYLINE: Roy Hattersley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 785 words


Michael Howard was clearly expecting more trouble than he got. His Daily
Telegraph advertisement - "I believe we must limit immigration" - conceded that
"some people" would regard his new policy announcement as racist. Yet, as far as
I can make out, no one has alleged, or even implied, that the Tory leader was
motivated by anything other than the most honourable intentions.

The statement has not been described as dishonest - despite its claim that Tony
Blair "believes that immigration should be unlimited". No one has even pointed
out that it was composed with the clear intention to deceive - although it
implies that the "millions of people from other countries who want to come and
live here" will be allowed to do so unless there is a Tory government after May.

There has been a passing mention of the intentional confusion of immigrants and
asylum seekers. But nothing much had been written about the nauseating pretence
that "putting immigration at the heart of the election battle" is "essential to
good community relations". The prime minister did explain that the new Tory
policy would be both expensive and unworkable. That, though no doubt true, is
only a small part of the indictment.

I do not suggest that Michael Howard is a racist. He almost certainly feels only
contempt for those members of Ukip and the British National party who exhibit
the cruder signs of prejudice. But he also fears them. He knows that they are
attracting support from men and women who normally vote Conservative. And his
campaign managers have told him that many hardcore Tories are so demoralised
that they wonder if it will be worth walking to the polling station on a rainy
day. What better way to defend his right flank and hearten his dispirited troops
than a call to come home to the party of Enoch Powell?

Howard's language is less phantasmagoric than Powell's. But both the prediction
of "rivers of blood" and the declaration that "Britain has reached a turning
point" have - and were calculated to have - the same effect. One forecast and
the other fears that, in Lady Thatcher's immortal phrase, Britain is in danger
of being "swamped". The advertisement ends with an assertion that I heard from
every National Front candidate who stood against me in my multi-racial
Birmingham constituency: "Only my party has the courage to tell the truth about
immigration."

The Tory leader must know that the voters with whom his incendiary language has
most resonance have in their minds a typical immigrant and asylum seeker that is
far from the truth. In the backstreet mythology, they are all black or brown,
live off social security and sell drugs. That fantasy will be encouraged by
Howard's insistence that "our communities cannot absorb newcomers at today's
pace". The result would be increased antagonism to everybody who is thought to
be, or to have been, an immigrant.

We are told that some leaders of the ethnic minorities clamour for tighter entry
controls as essential protection for their communities. If so, they damage their
own cause. Good race relations depend on public and politicians retaining a
sense of proportion. Neither immigrants nor asylum seekers impinge on the life
of much of the country - apart from keeping the public services running.

Policy changes may be nec essary, but promoting them in the manner chosen by
Michael Howard can only make life harder for the thousands of wholly British
families who are easy targets for racial hatred.

Yet Howard has escaped much of the criticism which he ought to attract for
touting for votes without concern for the damage he is doing to the black and
Asian British. Charles Clarke - whom I persist in believing is a radical at
heart - actually announced that the Tory leader had raised the issue of
immigration in an entirely proper fashion. The home secretary cannot believe
that to be true. I absolve him - though I would not do the same for all his
cabinet colleagues - of a desire not to antagonise the voters to whom the
Conservative advertisement was meant to appeal. We can only assume that he
thought that keeping the temperature low was the best way to minimise damage to
race relations.

If that was his motive, he made an honourable mistake. Many years ago, my father
told me that at the English College in Rome, young would-be priests were told
about the pagan legend of the Salamander - the mythical lizard that walked into
fire and quenched the flames by the power of its virtue. The story was changed
into a Christian parable with the nostrum: "It is not by running away from evil
that we overcome it, but by going to meet it." Racism, in all its
manifestations, has to be met head on.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 31, 2005, Monday

SATELLITE, CABLE & DIGITAL: PICK OF THE DAY

BYLINE: JAMES RAMPTON

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 164 words


Kilroy: Behind the Tan (9pm BBC3)

Robert Kilroy-Silk (right) may be many things, but publicity-shy is not one of
them. The politician underlines his relish of the limelight by allowing BBC3's
cameras to track him in the months following his election, last June, as an MEP
for the UK Independence Party. Film-maker Emeka Onono certainly witnesses some
eyebrow-raising moments as the former Labour MP and BBC1 chat-show host pledges
to destroy the European Parliament.

The film shows Kilroy at home with his influential wife, Jan, on their
Buckinghamshire estate and at Strasbourg, where in the debating chamber the new
MEP gains a reputation as "a football hooligan" when he disregards requests to
observe order. The programme also captures the struggle within UKIP, as Kilroy
mounts an ultimately unsuccessful leadership bid - he has subsequently announced
his resignation from UKIP. The film offers an intriguing insight into the
day-to-day work of a politician.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Business

                                January 30, 2005

HOWARD IS RIGHT ON IMMIGRATION

BYLINE: Fraser Nelson, Political Editor

SECTION: Pg. 13

LENGTH: 649 words


Michael howard, the Tory leader, can't win. He finally delivers tax cut plans
only to have them dismissed as trivial. He announces a crackdown on immigration,
only to be denounced as xenophobic. Worst, these brickbats are being hurled by
the right.

Even conservatives, it seems, don't much like the Tories. Those expecting a
little pizzazz from the Opposition leader are entitled to laugh at his proposed
rebate: 1% of government spending. But those who oppose him on asylum are
mistaken.

Those who believe in immigration, its multiple economic gifts and the principle
of asylum, should wish Howard well in his scary-sounding crackdown quotas. A
racial tension timebomb is ticking under England, and he is marching off to
defuse it.

First, the facts. Net immigration into Britain is about 160,000 a year and is
here to stay - a function not of government policy, but of the huge number of
jobs that need filling in our growing economy. From every perspective, this is a
blessing. The Treasury estimates immigration will add a quarter-point to the
growth of gross domestic (GDP) growth, relieving wage pressures and keeping
inflation down. We have the jobs, they have the energy: it's a win-win
situation.

Next, the realpolitik. Hostility to immigration is hardening in Britain: an
Economist poll last month showed 74% consider the current flow excessive and 53%
believe incomers place "too much pressure on public services". "Asylum seeker"
and "immigrant worker" have become inter- changeable terms in the UK, whose
hopeless system forces one to pose as the other. Instead of badly-needed
workers, the public sees cheats and, increasingly, criminals.

The result is a country pregnant with racial tension. An increasing number of
MPs from racially mixed constituencies talk about an impending race explosion.

But Britain - unlike France, Austria and The Netherlands - has no far-right
groups in mainstream politics. This is often confused for a sign of racial
harmony. If only this were so. A poll by Ipsos last year found that 60% in
Britain considered immigration a "bad influence" - the highest figure of any
country surveyed in Europe.

The Rowntree Trust's annual State of the Nation report last year found that 18%
say they may vote for the British National Party (BNP), the far-right,
anti-immigration party. In London, this rose to 24%.

The problem is not immigration itself, but the perception of immigration. In the
Economist poll, only 7% thought too many work permits are issued. In the gap
lies suspicion that most immigrants are asylum seekers - a fear fostered by
disastrous government policy. So the first requirement is an honest immigration
system, which accepts the need for mass immigration.

The Conservatives propose adopting Australia's points system: an idea so
sensible that no Labour minister has yet opposed it. Its five-year plan on
immigration is due next month and may well propose the same kind of idea. The
next and more urgent requirement is for someone to reach out and stop Britain's
immigration malcontents thinking the only option is the BNP. This job was partly
done by the non-racist UK Independence Party (UKIP) at the European elections.

But with no Commons presence, it cannot be relied upon as a buffer between
racist parties and mainstream politics. That is why anyone serious about
sustained immigration to Britain should hope the Conservatives sound credible.

The BNP has taken to phoning up newspapers that refer to them as "far-right"-
complaining that a fifth of the nation sympathises with them, so they are pretty
mainstream. This terrifying point is hard to disprove.

Howard's plan to slap a quota on immigration and pull out of the 1951 United
Nations Refugee Convention may have caused uproar - but if he doesn't reach this
huge tract of British electorate, genuinely racist parties will.


LOAD-DATE: February 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                      Copyright 2005 Sunday Business Group

                               6 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

ONE IN THREE WOULD VOTE LIB DEM IF CHANCE OF VICTORY WAS REALISTIC'

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 12

LENGTH: 469 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Charles Kennedy: potential electoral breakthrough


The Liberal Democrats could break through to form a government with a big
majority according to an exclusive opinion poll conducted for The Independent on
Sunday.

While 20 per cent of voters say they currently intend to vote for Charles
Kennedy's party, 37 per cent of those surveyed agreed with the statement: "I
would vote for the Liberal Democrats if they had a realistic chance of winning
in my constituency".

Those who say they would make the switch to the Liberal Democrats include 29 per
cent of Labour supporters, 19 per cent of Conservatives and one- third of those
backing other parties.

If people voted along these lines in winnable constituencies, Mr Kennedy would
become Prime Minister with a majority of 126 over Labour, and the Conservatives
would be reduced to a rump of 56 seats. Six current cabinet ministers would also
lose their seats: Margaret Beckett, Charles Clarke, Patricia Hewitt, Alan
Johnson, Tessa Jowell and Ruth Kelly.

The figures suggest the potential for meltdown in the electoral system if the
Liberal Democrats can persuade voters in their target seats that they have a
"realistic chance" of winning. And they reveal the extent to which Tony Blair's
decision to join the US invasion of Iraq has shaken the kaleidoscope of British
politics.

The Liberal Democrats have already gained support at Labour's expense since the
build-up to war in Iraq, but could yet gain more. The British involvement in
Iraq remains unpopular and there is strong support for bringing the troops home.

The poll, carried out last week by CommunicateResearch, found that 59 per cent
agreed that "British troops should be withdrawn quickly" after today's Iraqi
elections, while 32 per cent disagreed.

However, voters are unlikely to shift their allegiance so dramatically in
practice, and the poll contains good news for the Prime Minister, with Labour's
lead over the Conservatives widening from five points last month to eight
points.

Michael Howard's attack on the Government's record on immigration has failed to
bring a lift to the Conservative Party.

But the potential for the immigration issue to cost the Labour Party votes is
shown by the poll's finding that 71 per cent disagree that "the Government has
the issue of illegal immigration under control", including 60 per cent of Labour
voters.

There is, however, some comfort for Mr Howard in that the UK Independence Party
is nearly off the electoral map on a mere 1 per cent, behind the Green Party on
3 per cent.

CommunicateResearch interviewed a random sample of 1,008 adults by telephone on
26 and 27 January. The results have been weighted to be representative of all
adults. CommunicateResearch is a member of the British Polling Council. Full
details can be found at www. communicateresearch.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               7 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

LIB DEMS COULD WIN ELECTION, POLL SHOWS

BYLINE: JOHN RENTOUL

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 470 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Kennedy: potential electoral breakthrough


The Liberal Democrats could break through to form a government with a big
majority according to an exclusive opinion poll conducted for The Independent on
Sunday.

Although 20 per cent of voters say they currently intend to vote for Charles
Kennedy's party, 37 per cent of those surveyed agreed with the statement: "I
would vote for the Liberal Democrats if they had a realistic chance of winning
in my constituency".

Those who say they would make the switch to the Liberal Democrats include 29 per
cent of Labour supporters, 19 per cent of Conservatives and one- third of those
backing other parties.

If people voted along these lines in winnable constituencies, Mr Kennedy would
become Prime Minister with a majority of 126 over Labour, and the Conservatives
would be reduced to a rump of 56 seats. Six current cabinet ministers would also
lose their seats: Margaret Beckett, Charles Clarke, Patricia Hewitt, Alan
Johnson, Tessa Jowell and Ruth Kelly.

The figures suggest the potential for meltdown in the electoral system if the
Liberal Democrats can persuade voters in their target seats that they have a
"realistic chance" of winning. And they reveal the extent to which Tony Blair's
decision to join the invasion of Iraq has shaken the kaleidoscope of British
politics.

The Liberal Democrats have already gained support at Labour's expense since the
build-up to war in Iraq, but could yet gain more.

The British involvement in Iraq remains unpopular and there is strong support
for bringing the troops home.

The poll, carried out last week by CommunicateResearch, found that 59 per cent
agreed that "British troops should be withdrawn quickly" after today's Iraqi
elections, while 32 per cent disagreed.

However, voters are unlikely to shift their allegiance so dramatically in
practice, and the poll contains good news for the Prime Minister, with Labour's
lead over the Conservatives widening from five points last month to eight
points.

Michael Howard's attack on the Government's record on immigration has failed to
bring a lift to the Conservative Party.

But the potential of the immigration issue to cost the Labour Party votes is
shown by the poll's finding that 71 per cent disagree that "the Government has
the issue of illegal immigration under control", including 60 per cent of Labour
voters.

There is, however, some comfort for Mr Howard in that the UK Independence Party
is nearly off the electoral map on a mere 1 per cent, behind the Green Party on
3 per cent.

CommunicateResearch interviewed a random sample of 1,008 adults by telephone on
26 and 27 January. The results have been weighted to be representative of all
adults. CommunicateResearch is a member of the British Polling Council. Full
details can be found at www. communicateresearch.com

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               8 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

UKIP IS PARTY OF FASCIST NUTTERS' SAYS KILROY-SILK

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 259 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk, the TV presenter turned politician, has dismissed some of
his former colleagues in the UK Independence Party as "bloody right-wing fascist
nutters".

In a BBC3 documentary, Kilroy: Behind the Tan, to be screened tomorrow at 9pm,
he admits he did not know who he was getting involved with when he made his
highly publicised entry into fringe politics last year.

"The trouble is, some are serious and some are nutters," he said. "And you get
the lot. Is this one serious? Or is this another nutter? I didn't know what I
joined. What's been irritating is that I've been defending some of these bloody
right-wing fascist nutters."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's arrival helped to boost Ukip's vote in the European elections,
in which they won 12 seats in the Strasbourg Parliament last May, beating the
Liberal Democrats into third place. But having failed in his bid to take over
the leadership from the little-known former Tory MP Roger Knapman, Mr
Kilroy-Silk launched his own political party earlier this month.

Mr Kilroy-Silk would not allow the documentary-makers to film all of his
interactions with fellow Ukip MEPs, explaining: "I was embarrassed at their
behaviour, their naivety and their immaturity, and I didn't want you to see them
behaving that way."

One scene captured an exchange between Mr Kilroy-Silk and an MEP from the
right-wing League of Polish Families, allied to Ukip, who said he believed
homosexuality is a sin. Mr Kilroy-Silk replied: "I'm relieved. You see, I don't
have to defend them any more."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               9 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

THE BACK PAGE: THE DIARY

BYLINE: EDITED BY CHRISTOPHER SILVESTER

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 954 words

HIGHLIGHT:
True colours: the Saatchi Gallery appears to back painting over other art forms
ANDY PARADISE


Following his ousting last week as a patron of the Malcolm Muggeridge Society,
Conrad Black, the disgraced ex-proprietor of the Telegraph newspaper group, may
soon suffer further humiliations. I gather that Black will no longer be asked to
attend meetings of the Bilderberg Group, the secretive transatlantic discussion
group of power-brokers which meets annually, eschewing media scrutiny, and which
some regard as an anti-democratic conspiracy.

Black prizes highly his long-time membership of the Bilderberg. Lord Carrington,
whom Black appointed to the board of the Telegraph Group, used to chair
Bilderberg; Andrew Knight, another former ally of Black, was its London
recruiting officer. Other former Black associates involved with the Bilderberg
Group include Henry Kissinger, who was a main board director of Hollinger
International, and the neocon Richard Perle, a member of the corporation's
executive committee.

"Bilderberg is for men of achievement," says my source in the group's upper
echelons, "not for men who have lost control of their business and been fighting
off the attentions of corporate lawyers. Some members of the group have found
Lady Black the journalist Barbara Amiel rather heavy going. There is a feeling
at the top of the group that life is too short to have to listen to Barbara. Her
views opposing feminism went down badly with some. She was seen as overbearing
and hectoring. We could also do without Conrad's ponderous presence."

F F F

I have unearthed startling evidence of the prescience of Lord Hurd, the former
Tory foreign secretary, who also dabbles as a writer of political novels. Back
in the late 1960s, Hurd co-wrote (with Andrew Osmond) a novel called Scotch on
the Rocks, about armed revolt by militant Scottish nationalists, in which he
foresaw the merger of Scottish regiments.

In Scotch on the Rocks, Hurd describes a young soldier wearing glengarry and
green battledress, with a plaid stripe down the trousers: "The work of a royal
hand, it had been acclaimed as a masterpiece of modern design and political
expertise, preserving in its flashes, cap badges or complicated tartans vestiges
of all the uniforms of all the Scottish infantry regiments. Old soldiers still
talked of the Black Watch or the Highland Fusiliers, but in the documents of
Whitehall and Nato it now just was the 2nd and 3rd Battalions, Scottish
Division..." This is remarkably close to what has now transpired. Hurd tells me
that his prognostication was "pure fantasy" and he never expected it to come to
pass. "I hope the rest of the book doesn't come true," he adds, "for example,
the sack of Fort William on the Sabbath."

F F F

Contemporary artist Tracey Emin once told ex-boyfriend Billy Childish, a more
traditionalist painter: "Your paintings are stuck, you are stuck! Stuck! Stuck!
Stuck!" As a result of her outburst, Childish started a new art movement called
Stuckism. Now the Stuckists claim that the Saatchi Gallery has accepted their
major contention - that painting is superior to installation or video art. In a
recent announcement, the gallery registers its belief "that throughout a period
when photography, video and installation art has been at the forefront of museum
attention, painting continues to be the most relevant and vital way that artists
choose to communicate". Stuckist leader Charles Thomson is delighted. "It's a
tremendous breakthrough," he says.

F F F

Among the hidden costs to the British taxpayer of the occupation of Iraq is a
gift of £6.2m worth of equipment - including 79 Land Rovers, two luggage X-ray
machines, three large metal detectors, 27 hand-held metal detectors, 15 mirrors
for searching the underneath of vehicles, 774 medium machine guns, five million
rounds of ammunition and 1,150 light machine guns - to the Iraqi interim
government. This is to "reduce the burden on our own forces", but a dozen or so
Labour MPs have objected.

"The country is awash with weapons," says Glenda Jackson. "I cannot see how
getting more of them into Iraq is going to reduce either the violence or the
intimidation."

At least we're not selling them. Maybe that will come.

F F F

Robert Oulds has been deselected as a Tory candidate for Slough after he posed
with (legally owned) guns belonging to a friend. Oulds has since denied that he
intends to defect to UKIP. Perhaps he should try the Labour Party, which has
brought in Mark Penn, an American strategist who used to work for Bill Clinton.
Among Penn's efforts was a pamphlet called "Winning the Gun Vote", which urged
the Democratic Party to embrace gun ownership.

F F F

A 200-company Irish trade delegation hit Shanghai's booming market last week,
led by Prime Minister Bertie Ahern and four ministers. Hustling for Chinese
business is thirsty work, and after the government team had hosted a grand
reception for their Chinese hosts, they fancied a mild libation and repaired to
a private bar in Shanghai's most authentic Irish hostelry, the Blarney Stone.
Bertie ordered ... a Carlsberg. As the Blarney is the only place in Shanghai
serving Irish Guinness, as opposed to the Malaysian brew, the news went down
badly with the regulars, several of whom were potential electors. Hearty
handshakes from the PM on his way out did little to raise his political
standing.

F F F

A cheery little book, Pinter in the Theatre, is to feature the thoughts of those
who have worked with morose Leftie Harold Pinter. It will tell "what it's like
to appear in a Pinter play, direct a Pinter play, be directed by Pinter, to work
alongside Pinter as an actor". How objective will this study be? I ask because
its editor, Ian Smith, is in Pinter's cricket team.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              10 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 30, 2005

Business: Tories have the ammo, but they're still firing blanks

SECTION: Observer Business Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 399 words


The country would love a change, but there's no credible alternative. Or is
there?

New Labour: 358/359

Conservatives: 186/190

Liberal Democrats: 72.4-73

SNP: 5/6

Plaid Cymru: 3.8/4.8

UKIP: 0.5/0.9

Probable election date: Thursday 5 May 2005

WHEN looking at these general election spreads, logic and the weight of money
suggest that New Labour is shooed in with an overall majority of between 75 and
80. The Prime Minister could almost be forgiven for tinkering with his proposals
for a Cabinet reshuffle. The Iraqi elections are due today, so those who will
never forgive the PM for his support of President Bush 22 months ago will be
considering the ramifications of making their cross for the Lib Dems in the
ballot box. Those who have made their retirement homes in the West Country
looking to embrace the benefits of local taxation may join them. In recent weeks
punters have been taking the Lib Dem spread some way above the 52 seats they won
in 2001 - protest votes or disenfranchised New Labour?

What about the Tories? Could they rise like the phoenix from the ashes by
adopting bold and controversial policies? At the moment it seems very unlikely.
The 'centre ground' so cleverly thieved from them by Blair, Mandelson and
Campbell in 1997 and 2001, is already bespoke. Time is not on Michael Howard's
side. The electorate in apathetic and ambivalent about politics, with the young
totally uninterested and likely to remain so until unemployment flips up. About
65 per cent of voters are aged between 48 and 65. With the disenchanted Labour
voter likely to back Charles Kennedy, Howard and his cohorts must rely on the
marginal seats, which encompass about 850,000 votes, to turn their fortunes.
What a lead the North East gave the Conservatives by rejecting a local assembly
with a 72 per cent majority. So 'small' government has plenty of support; so
does the Tory asylum seeker policy.

The UK is against any expansion into Europe, or supporting its constitution, and
the electorate has had a belly-full of rising crime and the dissipation of
pension schemes. If these issues do not provide sufficient ammunition for the
Tories to make a fist of this election, nothing will. Howard must find some
missing passion and portray some warmth, if the government's faltering support
is to be exploited to any effect.

Source: Cantor Spreadfair


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              11 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 30, 2005

News in brief: Ukip candidate suspended

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 52 words


The UK Independence party suspended a general election candidate amid reports
that he advocated the killing of the criminally insane and called for the return
of the Empire. John Houston, 54, had been selected to contest the East Kilbride
seat in Lanarkshire held by Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              12 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 30, 2005

OTV: 31 January: Digital pick of the day

BYLINE: Stephanie Billen

SECTION: Observer Magazine Pages, Pg. 76

LENGTH: 98 words


It's hard to think of anyone more vile that Robert Kilroy-Silk, permatanned
former Labour MP, one-time chat show host and born-again Islamophobe/occasional
Ukip member. Thankfully his complete lack of self-awareness makes him the
perfect subject for a documentary and Emeka Onomo follows him from the European
elections in June to his recent bitter battles with the Ukip leadership. There
are few surprises in that Kilroy-Silk turns out to be as self-righteous and
repellant as expected but some of the footage of the man in action in Europe is
astonishing. Worth catching.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              13 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

Poor UKIP, after Kilroy comes sex and drugs and executions

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; News; 19

LENGTH: 195 words


It scarcely seems possible, but there is yet more embarrassment for the UK
Independence party this weekend. A week after MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk flounced
off and dismissed his former colleagues as "a joke", a general election
candidate has been suspended for his -how can we put this? -unusual views on
policy.

John Houston, selected to fight East Kilbride for UKIP, is thought to support
the execution of the criminally insane, legalisation of drugs and the sex trade,
and the return of the empire. He also wants the organs of executed criminals to
be available to "law-abiding members of the community".

A UKIP spokesman insisted through gritted teeth yesterday: "These policies bear
no relation to UK Independence party policy."

This is far from the first time that an outspoken member of the party has
embarrassed UKIP. Last year MEP Godfrey Bloom said that no sensible business
would employ a woman of child-bearing age, and compounded the offence he caused
by complaining that women didn't clean behind the fridge.

Just to add to the party's discomfort, Godfrey's gaffe will be revisited in
Kilroy - Behind the Tan this Saturday on BBC2.


LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atticus

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                January 30, 2005

BRIEFLY. . .

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LETTERS; Pg. 77

LENGTH: 53 words


I FEEL sorry for those disillusioned members of UKIP who think they will be
joining a democratic party when they join Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritas. He has
made it obvious that he will be the boss. As for the name Veritas, it has been
suggested that Vanitas would be more fitting.

John Croft, Southend-on-Sea

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              15 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

'Fascist nutters' - Kilroy-Silk turns on ex-friends in UKIP

BYLINE: BY PATRICK HENNESSY Political Editor

SECTION: News; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 344 words

ROBERT KILROY-SILK has launched a bitter attack on his former colleagues in the
United Kingdom Independence Party, describing some of them as "bloody Right-wing
fascist nutters." His outspoken comments, in a BBC film to be screened tomorrow,
were made only days after he angrily quit UKIP, describing it as "a joke" and
announcing the formation of a new political party named Veritas.

In the BBC programme, Kilroy: The Man Behind The Tan, Mr Kilroy-Silk hits out
both at his former fellow members and politicians from other Right-wing European
groupings to which UKIP is allied. He tells the programme-maker Emeka Onono:
"The trouble is, some are serious and some are nutters. And you get the lot - is
this one serious? Or is this another nutter? I mean, I didn't know what I
joined. What's been irritating is that I've been defending some of these bloody
Right-wing fascist nutters."

The former Labour MP and television host explains why he sometimes stopped Ms
Onono filming UKIP meetings. "I was embarrassed at their behaviour, their
naivety and their immaturity and their stupidity and I didn't want you to see
them behaving that way."

Nevertheless, the programme, which Ms Onono made in the months after the
elections to the European Parliament in June, in which UKIP won 12 seats and 18
per cent of the vote, is likely to embarrass some of the party's most senior
figures.

A UKIP spokesman said: "We'll admit that we did have a fascist Right-wing nutter
- but he has just left. I am talking about Robert Kilroy-Silk."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's decision to leave followed a bitter row which saw him at first
denying that he wanted to lead the party, then launching an aggressive campaign
to take it over. He fell out with its leader, Roger Knapman, over the direction
of the party, claiming that it was doing nothing to capitalise on its European
election success.

He tells the BBC that he was wrong to have lied over his desire to take charge.
He claims: "I was trying to help the party, and it was the wrong thing to do. I
should have told the truth."

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              16 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

Loony party

BYLINE: BY TIM WALKER

SECTION: News; Mandrake; Pg. 38

LENGTH: 103 words

HERE'S A FUNNY thing. Go into Google and tap in the words "swivel-eyed loons".
Then click on the "I'm feeling lucky" box.

This takes you straight into the official website of the UK Independence Party,
which displays photographs of its stalwart MEPs Roger Knapman and Jeffrey
Titford.

While they may take exception to being associated with such a phrase, Mandrake
considers it marginally less offensive than "Right-wing fascist nutters". That
is how the party's one-time golden boy Robert Kilroy Silk describes some of his
erstwhile colleagues in a documentary on BBC3 tomorrow called Kilroy: Behind the
Tan.

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              17 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 30, 2005, Sunday

UKIP SCANDAL

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 96 words


THE UK Independence Party (UKIP) have suspended one of their General Election
candidates amid reports that he advocated the killing of the criminally insane
with their organs "made available to law-abiding members of the community".

Party bosses said yesterday that 54-year-old John Houston - who was selected in
December to contest the East Kilbride seat in Lanarkshire - was suspended after
his proposals were sent to newspapers.

UKIP spokesman Mark Croucher said that the party was investigating and that
Houston's opinions "bear no relation to UKIP policy".

LOAD-DATE: January 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              18 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 29, 2005

CRACK POTTY; SCOTS UKIP HOPEFUL'S PLAN FOR SHOPS TO SELL COCAINE

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE by MARK HOWARTH

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 297 words


AN ELECTION candidate has been suspended after he backed free sauna sex for
civil servants and special camps for ugly people.

The bonkers policies are part of a manifesto sent out by John Houston, who was
due to stand for the UK Independence Party in East Kilbride.

Officials rounded on the maverick politician when the list of bizarre pledges
surfaced yesterday ahead of May's general election. Houston - who polled 419
votes as an independent candidate in 1997 - also insisted that he would:

KILL mental patients and GUT them for their organs.

open shops selling drugs like CRACK COCAINE.

encourage LESBIAN sex parlours.

Last night a party spokesman confirmed: "These policies formed Mr Houston's
submission to the working party drawing up our election manifesto.

"None of these policies have made it to the final draft. We don't know whether
he sent them out in error or intended to send them. In any case he has been
suspended while an investigation is carried out."

Houston's barking portfolio was meant to highlight the fact he was the first
UKIP member to announce his election plans.

He included letters from UKIP HQ praising his ideas. But then Houston launches
his rant. He states: "Different types of community should be permitted to
appear. Some people will want exclusive communities.

These could be people with a common language or even those with facial
disfigurements." He adds: "Those who are criminally insane should have their
lives ended.

Their organs should be made available."

Houston continues: "Cannabis should be on sale on an equal footing with tobacco
and alcohol. Other drugs may have to be obtained from a specialist outlet."

"Brothels should be available to men and women, heterosexual or homosexual."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              19 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 29, 2005

KILROY ATTACK CHARGE; NEWS IN BRIEF

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24

LENGTH: 62 words


A MAN was charged yesterday with throwing a bucket of slurry over former TV host
Robert Kilroy-Silk.

David McGrath, 37, of Withington, Manchester, will appear in court next week
accused of criminal damage.

Euro MP Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, who recently quit the UK Independence Party, was
attacked as he arrived at a Manchester school to take part in a radio show.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              20 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 29, 2005

SCOTTISH CANDIDATE SUSPENDED BY UKIP OVER NAZI-STYLE RANT; MENTALLY ILL SHOULD
BE EXECUTED - FREE BROTHEL VISITS FOR ALL CIVIL SERVANTS - WORK CAMPS FOR
DISABLED AND UNSKILLED

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Paul Gilbride and Mark Howarth

SECTION: Scottish Edition; NEWS; Pg. 11

LENGTH: 557 words


THE UK Independence Party last night suspended one of its would-be Scottish MPs
after he called for the killing of mental patients and the forced labour of
people with learning disabilities.

In a Nazi-like rant, John Houston, UKIP's candidate to fight East Kilbride in
the May poll, also advocates free brothels and a New World Order led by
"Englishspeaking nations".

The bombshell comes after bitter in-fighting leading to former BBC TV presenter
Robert Kilroy-Silk quitting UKIP last October, while allegations of links
between the far-right BNP and fringe elements of UKIP continue to blight the
party's image.

Houston, who lives alone, attracted just 419 votes when he stood in the
Lanarkshire new town as an Independent candidate at the last Holyrood election
in May 2003.

The East Kilbride MSP is Scottish Executive Health Minister Andy Kerr and its
current MP is Armed Forces Minister Adam Ingram.

Last night UKIP acted to head off the massive damage by saying it had
immediately suspended Mr Houston and a full investigation was being set up.

A spokesman said:"The United Kingdom Independence Party disassociates itself
from these views."

However, the Scottish Daily Express can reveal that Mr Houston was chosen to be
the UKIP candidate in December, four months after he had submitted his
disturbing proposals to party chiefs last August.

Among the bizarre policies he advocates are:A New World Order lead by the
Englishspeaking nations to impose what he calls "Social Order".

The creation of special communities only for people who speak the same language
and for those with facial disfigurements.

Labour-intensive initiatives to provide work for the unskilled and people with
learning difficulties. And Houston adds:

"The situation would of course be different for those with expertise and
specialists."

The killing of the criminally insane with their organs to be "made available to
law-abiding members of the community".

Free availability of cannabis, similar to tobacco and alcohol. Other drugs could
be obtained from specialist outlets.

Legalisation of brothels, saunas and other sexual services to both men and
woman.

Those who do work for the community, such as civil servants, would be entitled
to a number of free visits every year.

Last year it emerged UKIP's Scottish candidate for the EU elections, Peter Troy,
had previously had to stand down from the same position in the North East of
England in a row over allegations of links to the BNP.

Although UKIP scored 16 per cent of the vote in last year's European elections
across Britain as a whole, it only managed 6.7 per cent of the Scottish vote.

Revelations of the UKIP candidate's farright stance come in the week the world
remembers the 60th Anniversary of the liberation of Auschwitz and the horrors of
Nazi death camps in the Second World War.

Last night a UKIP spokesman said: "These policies formed Mr Houston's submission
to the working party drawing up our election manifesto.

"None of these policies have made it to the final draft. Mr Houston has been
suspended while an investigation is carried out."

Last night a spokesman for the Scottish Conservatives said: "It would be
appalling to think he was selected as a candidate if these extremist views had
been known of within the party."

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              21 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 29, 2005, Saturday

THE WEEK IN POLITICS: DOG-WHISTLE POLITICS' EXPLOITS IMMIGRATION FEARS

BYLINE: ANDREW GRICE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 946 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Michael Howard: Trying to see off UKIP challenge


IN AUSTRALIA, they call it "dog-whistle politics": sending a sharp message
which, like a dog whistle that is inaudible to humans, is heard only by the
people at which it is aimed.

In the past week, the dog whistle has been imported into British politics.
Michael Howard's speeches on immigration and asylum on Monday and yesterday
cannot be described as racist. He tapped into a genuine concern among many
people in this country, who put asylum and immigration very high when asked what
issues concern them.

The Tory leader did not mention the colour of people's skin; he didn't need to.
His call for a quota on asylum and a points system for immigration will no doubt
have conjured up black and Asian images in many minds. The reality is different:
the countries from which most economic migrants entered Britain in 2003 were
Ireland, the United States, France, Australia, Italy and Portugal.

Dog-whistle politics has been used successfully by John Howard, Australia's
conservative Prime Minister. He has played the immigration card without making
overtly racist comments. It is no coincidence that the man who ran his four
successful election campaigns, Lynton Crosby, is now Michael Howard's election
campaign director. The Tory leader's carefully chosen words were designed to
strike the right chord with his target audience. Labour strategists fear the
subconscious message will play well in marginal seats in areas such as the West
Midlands and among eurosceptics tempted to vote for the UK Independence Party.

As Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman, told a private meeting last autumn: "If we
had a tougher line on immigration and asylum they defectors to UKIP would come
back."

All week, the Tories anxiously awaited the first opinion polls since Mr Howard's
intervention. Yesterday a YouGov survey for The Daily Telegraph showed that 66
per cent backed the Tory plan for a strict limit on immigration and to withdraw
from the 1951 UN convention on refugees, while only 28 per cent opposed it.

People were less keen about Mr Howard's motives: 58 per cent thought he
desperately wanted to win votes for his party, while 36 per cent said he
genuinely believed immigration should be limited.

I don't doubt for one moment that Mr Howard believes it. But I do find his
policy hard to reconcile with his moving speech at last October's Tory
conference, when he recalled how his Romanian parents fled to Britain to escape
the Nazis and that his grandmother was killed at Auschwitz.

Surely, his policy means that a Tory Government could turn away people fleeing
persecution like his parents once its asylum quota had been reached?

Although immigration is not seen as an issue that persuades people to switch
parties, it might well persuade natural Tories to vote. With many Labour
supporters threatening to stay at home or shop around, turnout at the election
expected on 5 May will be more important than usual.

But the Tories should not be popping the champagne corks just yet. The election
will almost certainly be decided on the economy and public services. YouGov
found Labour well ahead on the economy and the voters preferring higher spending
on public services over tax cuts, the Tory policy. If I were a Tory strategist,
I would much rather be ahead on these issues than on immigration.

Labour will try to close the immigration gap by ensuring the speedy removal of
failed asylum-seekers and highlight the benefits of legal migration to Britain
by many - often highly skilled people - the country needs.

The Tories' policy launch was not as smooth as it looked. I am told there was
near panic in their ranks when the European Commission declared that the planned
quota could be illegal and that Britain had already signed up to a common EU
policy - designed to stop asylum-shopping - that would stop them withdrawing
from the 1951 convention.

The Tories then tried to make Europe the issue, claiming this was always part of
their strategy. It wasn't. They hadn't done their homework about the EU
directives.

Immigration experts say that pulling out of the 1951 convention would not be a
panacea. An asylum-seeker could then lodge a claim under the separate European
Convention on Human Rights. The Tories have not pledged to pull out of that.
Even if they did, a would-be refugee could make his claim in Strasbourg rather
than the British courts.

There are other flaws in the Tories' plan. They want all asylum claims processed
outside Britain, preferably close to the person's country of origin.

They can't say where, but insist that preliminary soundings have been taken. I
doubt the talks have got very far. Under David Blunkett, the Home Office
approached several countries on this. Their reply was that they already had
enough refugee camps and would not be bribed to set up any more.

To pull out of the EU directives on asylum, the Tories would have to give
something back. That is the way the 25-strong club works. But they will already
be trying to "renegotiate" the social chapter and the common fisheries policy.
If they get no joy, they will be on a slippery slope to the exit door.

There would also be a price to be paid in terms of Britain's standing in the
world. No country has withdrawn from the 1951 convention, not even Australia. It
has 145 signatories. What signal would pulling out send to them?

The more you look at the Tory policy, the more it looks like an attempt to prop
up its core vote by a party that knows it cannot win, rather than a coherent
programme for government. As well as whistling for the dog, it really does seem
that poor Mr Howard is whistling in the wind.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              22 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 29, 2005, Saturday

Constitution made simple for voters

BYLINE: Rory Watson in Brussels

SECTION: Overseas news; 46

LENGTH: 441 words


The European Commission is offering to help individual governments with public
information campaigns on the European Union's new constitution as they prepare
for a series of ratification referendums across the Continent.

In a memo to her colleagues released yesterday, Margot Wallstrom, the
commissioner in charge of communication policy, said that the institution would
be "an active partner in informing European citizens about the content of the
constitution and its advantages in relation to the present treaties".

She added that the Commission would "do all it can to ensure the entry into
force of the constitution", and was ready to help member states with "the
development of national strategies".

This assistance could take the form of opinion surveys and media monitoring,
initiatives to stimulate debates, the development of websites and videos, the
production of brochures and the definitive version of the constitution in 20
languages.

The Commission, which was specifically asked by EU foreign ministers last
November to consider what role it could play in the ratification process, says
that it has no intention of becoming involved in domestic political battles. Its
sole function would be to provide factual information in order to foster an
informed debate.

Jose Manuel Barroso, the Commission President, has agreed to make two
appearances in Spain, after being invited by the Government and the Opposition,
before the national referendum on February 20.

But, while the Commission may have a role in some other countries, it is likely
to approach Britain with more caution. A government spokesman said last night:
"Clearly, it would be wrong for substantial Commission or European money to be
spent in support of either side. The referendum is a matter entirely for the
British people."

The UK Independence Party said that it would "be disgraceful if taxpayers' money
were to be used to pay for the 'yes' campaign".

However, Richard Corbett, a British Labour MEP who helped to shape the draft
constitution, says that the Commission has a legitimate role. "Provided it
sticks to information and does not campaign, it can contribute to a
better-informed debate," he said. "If the antiEuropeans do not want that, it
shows what they are up to."

Confirmation of the planned information campaign coincided with the publication
yesterday of the latest EU-wide survey of public attitudes towards the
constitution.

It showed that 89 per cent of those polled knew little or nothing about it.

Support for the treaty is lowest in Britain, with 20 per cent in favour and 30
per cent opposed.


LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 28, 2005

BBC's pro-EU bias

BYLINE: TARA CONLAN; GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: ED_2ND_04; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 560 words



THE BBC has a 'serious problem' with its news coverage of the European Union
because of its failure to be impartial, a damning report revealed yesterday.

The report commissioned by the Corporation itself found there was a 'cultural
bias' in favour of the EU and a 'reluctance to question pro-EU assumptions'.

It called for 'urgent action' to address the impartiality, although it argued
that it was not done deliberately or systematically.

The conclusions were endorsed by focus group research which found that the most
knowledgeable viewers and listeners believed 'the BBC is both pro-Labour and
pro-EU.

Indeed, they tend to feel that the BBC is in the Government's pocket'.

Critics have long complained that the Corporation has an EU bias a claim it has
always denied.

To tackle the criticism, it commissioned an independent report into the issue.

The inquiry, headed by former Cabinet Secretary Lord Wilson, says the problems
are down to 'institutional mindset, oversimplified polarisation of the issues
and stereotyping, ignorance and omission'.

The report declared: 'We do think there is a serious problem.

'Although the BBC wishes to be impartial in its news coverage of the EU it is
not succeeding.' It goes on: 'The BBC must not slip into construing its task as
either one of counterbalancing "ignorant anti-European" prejudice stimulated by
the eurosceptic section of the press, or as taking its agenda from that press.'
It blames the institutional bias on employing staff from 'a homogeneous
professional recruitment base, single employer careers and distaste for
conservative ideas'.

Senior managers were said to be 'insufficiently self-critical' about standards
of impartiality and for passing on this attitude to juniors.

Some presenters are 'ill-briefed', the report claims, and the political
reporting has a 'narrow focus'.

After complaints from the UK Independence Party, the panel agreed the
Corporation has 'failed to reflect a significant minority opinion that the UK
should withdraw from the EU because this does not figure in the policies of the
Westminster parties'.

It concluded that the BBC should monitor its European coverage to check it is
not biased. Other measures suggested include appointing an EU editor, using a
wider range of pundits and more MEPs and more training for
'inadequately-briefed' staff. Last night the Conservatives welcomed the report.
Culture spokesman John Whittingdale said he looked forward to the 'BBC taking
action to remove the bias'.

A spokesman for the Vote No campaign, a coalition of politicians and business
leaders opposed to the EU Constitution, said: 'While BBC reporters are not
trying to be biased, this report makes clear that some journalists fall into the
trap of stereotyping opponents of the EU Constitution.' A BBC spokesman said:
'We are pleased that the group has concluded that there is no deliberate bias in
our reporting of Europe.

'However, we need to consider carefully their view that "there is a perception
of cultural and unintentional bias" in some of our coverage.

'The BBC has an important responsibility to provide accessible, accurate and
fair information and analysis on this subject to all our audiences.' The BBC's
head of news, Helen Boaden, will report back on the findings to the governors
next month.

LOAD-DATE: January 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              24 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 28, 2005

BBC told its news is too pro-Europe

BYLINE: TARA CONLAN

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 341 words


THE BBC has a 'serious problem' with its news coverage of the European Union
because of its failure to be impartial, a damning report revealed yesterday.

The study commissioned by the corporation itself found there was a 'cultural
bias' in favour of the EU and a 'reluctance to question pro-EU assumptions'.

It called for ' urgent action' to address the impartiality, although it argued
that it was not done deliberately or systematically.

The conclusions were endorsed by focus group research which found that the most
knowledgeable viewers and listeners believed 'the BBC is both pro-Labour and
pro-EU.

Indeed, they tend to feel that the BBC is in the Government's pocket'.

Critics have long complained that the BBC has an EU bias a claim it has always
denied. To tackle the criticism, it commissioned an independent report.

The inquiry, headed by former Cabinet Secretary Lord Wilson, says the problems
are down to ' institutional mindset, over- simplified polarisation of the issues
and stereotyping, ignorance and omission'. The report declared: 'We do think
there is a serious problem.

'Although the BBC wishes to be impartial in its news coverage of the EU it is
not succeeding.' It blames the institutional bias on employing staff from 'a
homogeneous professional recruitment base, single employer careers and distaste
for conservative ideas'.

After complaints from the UK Independence Party, the panel agreed the BBC has
'failed to reflect a significant minority opinion that the UK should leave the
EU'.

It concluded that the BBC should monitor its European coverage to check that it
is not biased. Other measures suggested include appointing an EU editor and more
training for 'inadequately-briefed' staff.

The report was last night welcomed by the Conservatives. The party's cculture
spokesman, John Whittingdale, said he looked forward to the 'BBC taking action
to remove the bias'.

Helen Boaden, the BBC's head of news, will report back on the findings to the
governors next month.

LOAD-DATE: February 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 28, 2005, Friday

BBC cleared of EU bias but told staff needs a shake-up

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Commons sketch Pg. 10

LENGTH: 532 words

THE BBC was told last night to take "urgent action" to improve its reporting of
Europe and combat ignorance among its journalists before the referendum on the
European Union constitution, expected next year.

An independent review of the corporation's EU coverage, commissioned by BBC
governors, found evidence of a lack of knowledge about the EU "at every stage"
of the reporting process. That included "ill-briefed" presenters and junior
researchers.

"We were struck by the number of witnesses who complained that they had been
rung up by inadequately briefed junior BBC researchers with ill-judged
preconceptions which gave an impression of bias," said the panel, chaired by
Lord Wilson, the former Cabinet Secretary.

The review, set up to discover whether the BBC was "systematically Europhile",
cleared the BBC of any intentional bias either for or against the EU. But it
said there was a "serious problem", with all parties of various shades of
Euro-opinion feeling the coverage was not impartial.

"Sometimes being attacked from all sides is a sign that an organisation is
getting it right," the report said.

"That is not so here. It is a sign that the BBC is getting it wrong, and our
main conclusion is that urgent action is required to put this right."

Coverage of EU news needed to be made "more demonstrably impartial".

In one of 10 recommendations, the report said ignorance among BBC journalists
needed to be addressed "as a matter of urgency". It said there was a "widespread
perception that it suffers from certain forms of cultural and unintentional
bias".

There were problems at both ends of the spectrum of reporting on the EU, with
coverage of its enlargement having "focused too much on fears of mass
migration".

On the other hand, there was evidence of "distaste for conservative ideas" and
there also appeared to be "overwhelmingly" more complaints from Eurocritics than
from Europhiles.

The UK Independence Party in particular complained that correspondents rarely
met "withdrawalist politicians" although the situation had improved since Ukip's
success in last year's European elections. Lord Wilson's panel urged the BBC not
to think its job was either to counter-balance anti-European prejudice
stimulated by Eurosceptic papers, or to take its lead from that sort of
reporting.

Last night, the BBC responded by setting up a working party to examine the
review and report back by the end of February.

The report said Radio 5 Live and the World Service were more successful at
explaining EU issues than others.

The Today programme on Radio 4 was singled out at one point for broadcasting
unchallenged contentious statements, one from Gordon Brown, in favour of the EU
constitution and one from Liam Fox, the Tory co-chairman, very much against.

The inquiry found evidence of an "institutional mindset" when it came to the EU,
but concluded that was not the same as deliberate bias.

But the BBC needed to reflect the whole range of views on the EU, and not
oversimplify by assuming people were either "wholly in favour of, or wholly
against", everything in the EU. "The BBC should be 'the voices', not 'the
voice', of Britain," the report said.

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              26 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 28, 2005

In brief: Man held over Kilroy attack

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 34 words


A 37-year-old man from Wilmslow, Cheshire, has been arrested for questioning
about a bucket of manure thrown over Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former member of
the UK Independence party, last December.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              27 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 28, 2005, Friday

PANDORA

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 759 words


Labour's flying pigs poster sparks anti-Semitism' row

VAs Tony Blair reflects on Holocaust Memorial Day, his party stands accused of
making anti-Semitic attacks on Michael Howard and Oliver Letwin.

Yesterday, Labour contacted its members, asking for their views on a range of
billboard posters it hopes to use in the forthcoming general election campaign.

One of the designs features Howard, right, and Letwin, left, superimposed on to
the bodies of flying pigs, with the slogan "the day Tory sums add up". Another
sees the Conservative leader hunched over a watch and chain, in a pose
reminiscent of Shylock.

Since Letwin and Howard are both Jewish, this has caused offence. According to
Andrew Mennear, the Tory candidate for Finchley and Golders Green - which has a
large Jewish community - the posters are "tasteless and wrong".

"I'm shocked the Labour Party finds it remotely clever or amusing to impose the
faces of probably the two highest profile Jewish politicians on to the bodies of
pigs," he says. "This has the capacity to offend many people. I urge them to
apologise for this tasteless poster immediately."

Mennear's disquiet is shared by the Board of Deputies of British Jews, which is
thought to have received several complaints. A source there said the posters
"really aren't the wisest things we've ever seen".

Meanwhile, Labour made light of the row. "The posters aren't anti-Semitic,
they're anti-Tory," said a spokesman.

Kim's new show goes global

VKIM CATTRALL'S new West End play looks like joining the growing tide of British
shows to be exported across the Atlantic.

The Sex and the City star, left, has agreed (in principle, at least) to take
Whose Life is it Anyway? to Broadway when its London run finishes in April.

According to Sir Peter Hall, who directed her current show, Cattrall is also
keen to ensure this won't be her last appearance on the London stage.

"We hope to do Whose Life Is It Anyway? on Broadway, and then there's another
play we plan to do back here in a couple of years," he said, at the show's first
night party at Mint Leaf restaurant.

"Kim's a remarkable actress. What the public don't see is that she's led this
company like a real captain.

"All the great actors have that capacity, and the self-indulgent ones don't."

Boris, the toenail'

VBORIS JOHNSON suffered the indignity of having his column "spiked" by The Daily
Telegraph yesterday.

His replacement, Michael Howard - who recently sacked Johnson as a Conservative
frontbench spokesman - wrote a piece extolling the Tory party's immigration
policy.

It could all be seen as a snub, since Bozza's Spectator magazine has heavily
criticised that very policy. But the man himself, above, insists otherwise.

"My column, which was in the process of composition, has been delayed," he
admits. "But I believe there can be no higher honour than to make way for
Michael, who did a mighty fine piece. I am a mere toenail in the great machine
of the Telegraph body politic."

Tanning for Kilroy

VROBERT KILROY-SILK'S tango tan will need to be the thickness of rhino-hide, if
it's to protect his ego over the coming weeks.

Pranksters connected to Orange Gob's former "firm", the UK Independence Party,
are behind an elaborate attempt to hijack the launch of Veritas - his own
political party - next week.

They have created an internet site at www.vanitasparty.com, with spoof versions
of the former chat-show host's manifesto ("We don't like Arabs much, or the
French"), and a campaign slogan: "The future's bright, the future's orange".

"If you go on to the site, your computer will also play a piece of music which
was the marching tune of the first Waffen SS Panzer division," says one of its
creators, with an uncanny knowledge of Nazi history.

VThe socialite Tamara Beckwith was expected in London this week, to publicise So
You Think You Can Teach?, a reality TV show co-starring my colleague, Janet
Street-Porter. But she failed to report for duty. Why?

"Tamara is currently on The World, a cruise liner somewhere in the Indian
Ocean," says her agent. "She telephoned to say that she was going to be late
getting back to the UK because they've been delayed by pirates. It's either an
extremely elaborate lie, or one of the best excuses I've ever heard for missing
work."

Sadly, we'll have to wait a bit to find out. The exclusive ocean liner's
American owners were yesterday unavailable for comment.

pandora@independent.co.uk www.independent.co.uk/pandora

LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 28, 2005, Friday

Will the election Sun shine on Blair or Howard?

BYLINE: Brian MacArthur

SECTION: Business; 60

LENGTH: 548 words


WITH the general election almost certainly only 14 weeks away, there is still no
indication of which leader and which party will be endorsed by The Sun. Many
readers may think it does not matter whom The Sun or any other national
newspaper supports.

But neither Tony Blair nor Michael Howard, the Tory leader, would agree with
them.

It was a triumph for Blair in 1997 when The Sun, the most vociferous of the Tory
tabloids that had been Margaret Thatcher's cheerleader since 1979, endorsed new
Labour.

The result was that Blair, unlike Neil Kinnock, the former Labour leader, was
not roasted for the benefit of the nine million potential voters who read The
Sun.

Since then the Prime Minister has courted its editors and the power brokers at
News International, which owns The Sun and The Times.

As for whether newspapers influence voting, there was evidence in 1992 that The
Sun's hostility to Kinnock may have influenced enough of its readers to vote
Conservative in several crucial marginal seats that were narrowly won by John
Major's Tories. The truth, though, is that it is probably the day-to-day spin in
the mass-market tabloids that sways some voters, particularly those least
interested in politics.

A study of The Sun this year elicits no clues about the newspaper's intentions,
except that it is giving more support to Howard than his two predecessors. It
has devoted three leading articles this week to supporting his plans for
controls on immigration and asylum, arguing that they are not racist but common
sense and have the support of 97 per cent of Sun readers.

Yet Rebekah Wade, the newspaper's Editor, will get conflicting signals if she
studies how her readers say they intend to vote this year (see table). The
research, in which 9,300 people who are certain voters were polled, shows that
more Sun readers intend to vote Labour than Tory. But among all Sun readers
there is an anti-Labour majority. And since 2001 there has been an 11-point fall
in the percentage of readers who say they will vote Labour, as there has also
been among Daily Mirror readers who are the keenest on voting Labour.

Two factors persuade Robert Worcester, of MORI, which conducted the poll, that
Blair's majority is likely to be reduced. Readers of The Sun and the Mirror
represent half the voters who regularly read a national newspaper, but since
2001 there has been a drop of 11 to 14 points among Sun, Mirror and Daily Star
readers who say they will definitely vote. Add that to the fall in support for
Labour since 2001 and the party is on course to lose 40 to 50 seats.

The research also yields some interesting titbits. At least 5 per cent of the
readers of The Sun and the Daily Mail intend to vote for the UK Independence
Party - which would deliver about 700,000 votes to the UKIP - and a remarkable 9
per cent of Guardian readers intend to vote for the Greens.

The most anguished editorial decisions will probably be at The Sun and The
Guardian. I doubt that The Sun will be able to bring itself to endorse Howard's
Tories. And will The Guardian go for Blair's Labour after his record in Iraq or
opt instead for Charles Kennedy's Lib Dems?

After nearly 18 years, this is my last weekly Paper Round. In future it will
appear monthly.


LOAD-DATE: January 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              29 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 27, 2005

EU DECIDE; EUROPE QUESTION IS SET

BYLINE: by MACER HALL

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 227 words


THE historic question every voter will face about the future of Europe was
unveiled yesterday.

Brits will be asked: "Should the United Kingdom approve the treaty establishing
a constitution for the European Union?"

The 14-word question will be at the centre of one of the biggest national
debates since Britain joined the EU - then called the Common Market - 32 years
ago.

Voters will answer "Yes" or "No" in the crucial referendum to decide whether
Brussels needs a new rulebook.

The wording of the question was released by the Foreign Office yesterday.

The ballot is expected in Spring 2006 - but the Daily Star is giving readers a
chance to vote TODAY in an exclusive phone poll.

Tories and Lib Dems yesterday welcomed the question.

The Conservatives' Deputy Leader Michael Ancram said: "The referendum question
seems straightforward."

And LibDem leader Charles Kennedy said:

"That sounds a very neutral, balanced question to me."

But the anti-EU UK Independence Party called for a vote on whether Britain
should quit the EU altogether. UKIP leader Roger Knapman said: "Surely this is
an excellent opportunity to answer the most pressing question of our age and let
the electorate decide who governs Britain."

A "No" vote would be a massive blow to Tony Blair - if he's still Prime Minister
after the next election.

LOAD-DATE: January 31, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              30 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 27, 2005, Thursday

Simple yes or no for voters on EU constitution THE QUESTION Should the United
Kingdom approve the treaty establishing a constitution for the European Union?
MICHAEL HOWARD On Europe and immigration

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 651 words

THE Government cleared the first hurdle for a referendum on the new European
constitution yesterday when the main parties approved a straightforward question
to be put to the voters.

The public will be asked: "Should the United Kingdom approve the treaty
establishing a constitution for the European Union?"

The referendum, expected to be held in the spring of 2006 if Labour is returned
to power at the election - or by the end of this year if there is a Conservative
victory - will be the first national vote on Britain's membership of the EU
since 1975.

The question to go on the ballot papers was disclosed when Jack Straw, the
Foreign Secretary, published the European Union Bill, which provides for
Parliament to ratify the new treaty.

Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, said he accepted the question and
committed a Tory government to holding a referendum within six months of winning
a general election.

Charles Kennedy, the Liberal Democrat leader, said the question sounded "neutral
and balanced".

Gordon Brown, the Chancellor, said he believed that people would see the
question as a straightforward one about whether people supported the EU
constitution.

The constitution is designed to streamline decision making in a newly expanded
25-member EU. It is due to come into force in November next year, provided it is
ratified by all members.

The Government's decision to couple parliamentary approval of the constitutional
treaty with the arrangements for the referendum was criticised by Michael
Ancram, the shadow foreign secretary. He said it was an "underhand trick" of
Tony Blair to seek to confuse the two.

It was a "cheap gesture" to propitiate the pro-Europeans while the Government
ran scared of a debate on Europe that it knew it could not win.

Labour MPs opposed to the constitution said the move was a "diversion" from the
party's election campaign.

Ian Davidson, the Labour MP for Glasgow Pollok, said rebels would move
amendments to try to ensure a fair contest and halt "a flood of taxpayer-funded
propaganda from Brussels and No 10".

John Cryer, the Labour MP for Hornchurch, said: "I don't know why the Government
wanted to put this out in the run-up to an election. It is not helpful because
the constitution is so unpopular in my constituency."

Roger Knapman, the leader of the UK Independence Party, said the question simply
raised another question: what would a No vote mean?

He accused Mr Straw of launching a misinformation campaign that "voting for an
end to self-government is somehow patriotic".

The Government says the referendum is likely to cost the same as an election:
around pounds 80million.

The anti-constitution No Campaign said the Government had employed a PR firm and
tripled its budget on promoting the constitution to pounds 613,000 this year.

"This is an abuse of public funds," it said.

No date for the vote has been set but Mr Straw suggested spring of next year.
The Prime Minister refused to be pinned down, saying it would be held "some time
in 2006 but when, I don't know".

Mr Howard said the No campaign had been helped by the disclosure that the
Government had ceded immigration and asylum controls to Brussels.

The arguments over retaining control over Britain's borders were relevant to the
argument about the constitution because the treaty would hand yet more power to
Brussels, he said.

Mr Howard was involved in heated exchanges in the Commons earlier over
immigration and asylum.

He said that under Labour there was "no limit on immigration, no proper control
of asylum and control of our borders has been given to Brussels". The
Conservatives would introduce a limit on immigration, a quota on asylum and
24-hour security at ports.

Mr Blair said the Tory plans were unworkable and told Mr Howard: "I am not
accusing you of being a racist. You are not a racist; you are just a shameless
opportunist."

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              31 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 27, 2005, Thursday

Smile, Kilroy

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 27

LENGTH: 79 words

Europe minister Denis MacShane has been spying on Robert Kilroy-Silk, the Euro
MP who recently quit the United Kingdom Independence Party.

"I was flying to Strasbourg to meet MEPs last week," says MacShane.

"On the little Air France plane, I noted a slumped, sullen Robert Kilroy-Silk,
not talking to UKIP ex-colleagues. I do not know who has split from whom and do
not much care."

Sit up straight and smile on the next flight, Robert: you are being watched.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              32 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 27, 2005

Leading article: EU constitution: Straight questions

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 27

LENGTH: 437 words


Let battle be joined, Tony Blair ringingly declared to the House of Commons when
he announced Labour's decision to hold a referendum on the EU constitution. That
was fully nine months ago, but the sound of battle has been noticeably subdued
ever since. So sotto voce is the European argument as the general election
approaches that, if you were not paying close attention, you might have missed
the official publication yesterday of the terms on which the historic referendum
will be held. Nevertheless, the European Union bill is a significant milestone,
since it defines the question on which voters will pronounce, probably some time
early next year. It is no exaggeration to say that the answer they give will
shape almost everything else about British politics in the current decade.

The main thing to say about the draft question is that it is a straight one.
When the referendum was first announced there were immediate charges that Labour
would try to twist the wording. In the event, Labour has played it pretty much
by the book. The advice of the independent Electoral Commission to produce a
question that presents the options clearly, simply and neutrally has been
followed. "Should the United Kingdom approve the treaty establishing a
constitution for the European Union?" is a formulation that was duly welcomed
across the parties yesterday. Not only did the Conservatives and Liberal
Democrats give it their approval; so too did Ukip.

Even so, there is still something left to parse. The draft proposes that voters
will not be asked to ratify the constitution, but the treaty that establishes
it. The distinction is unlikely to attract much attention once the campaign
starts. But it is an important one, since it is a reminder that the constitution
is not being wished on voters by the "Brussels" of Europhobic demonology but is
the product of a treaty voluntarily entered into by the EU's 25 member states.

A handful of anti-European Labour rebels protested yesterday that the government
is taking a risk by publishing this bill. But Labour's real risk is the opposite
one. Though rightly committed to the EU constitution (in line with party policy,
it might be added), ministers have decided not to promote the European issue
unduly before polling day. This is a dangerous game. By sidelining the argument
until after the election, they cede the issue to the Tory and media obsession
with Brussels in the meantime, as the latest furore over asylum policy so
clearly illustrates. Until battle really is joined, Labour's approach is making
the task of the yes campaign all the harder.


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 27, 2005

Straw kicks off the great EU debate: Foreign secretary unveils referendum
question that will decide fate of European constitution

BYLINE: Tania Branigan

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 592 words


The foreign secretary yesterday unveiled the euros 64m question which will
decide the fate of the European Union constitution in a referendum.

But while leaders of the opposition parties and Eurosceptics were satisfied by
its "neutral" wording, voters got a first glimpse of the ire it will arouse as
pro- and anti-treaty activists from across the political spectrum began their
debate.

According to the European Union bill, published yesterday by Jack Straw, the
referendum will ask: "Should the United Kingdom approve the treaty establishing
a constitution for the European Union?"

In an accompanying article, he argued it was time for pro-Europeans to "reclaim
the flag", adding: "The real patriotic case is overwhelmingly in favour of
Britain's engagement in the European Union."

But the Tory leader, Michael Howard, warned that the constitution would hand
more power to Brussels and added that the No campaign had been given a boost by
the debate over whether Britain had ceded immigration controls.

He said a Tory government would set a date for the referendum on the first day
after the general election and could hold it within six months.

Charles Kennedy, leader of the Liberal Democrats, told Radio 4's Today
programme: "The sooner we get on with this, the better."

The bill is unlikely to be passed until after the election, predicted for May.
Its passage is expected to be particularly time-consuming because its
constitutional implications mean it must be dealt with on the floor of the
Commons, rather than in committee.

The referendum - one of several to be held by EU members - will probably be held
in the first half of next year, allowing for the 25 member states to ratify the
treaty by the end of 2006. The aim is to streamline EU decision-making as the
union continues to expand.

But there is alarm that the bill would allow the referendum to be held alongside
elections - despite the Electoral Commission's warnings that this can compromise
results. "We believe that referendums on fundamental issues of national
importance should be considered in isolation," said a spokeswoman for the
commission.

"Cross-party campaigning on a fundamental referendum could cause significant
confusion amongst the electorate if combined with normal party election
campaigning. There is (also) a risk that the dominance of the referendum issue
would influence other polls to an extent that may compromise the electorate's
will in those other polls."

Roger Knapman, leader of the UK Independence Party, claimed: "Mr Straw has
already launched the government's misinformation campaign, claiming that voting
for an end to self-government is somehow patriotic. If the consequence of a No
vote is an end to British membership of the EU, then isn't Mr Blair proposing to
ask the wrong question?"

Peter Mandelson, the EU trade commissioner, dismissed Tory claims that the
government could not win, but admitted it would have to overcome public
scepticism to get a Yes vote. "What scepticism means in the dictionary
definition is open to persuasion and I think that is where the overwhelming
majority of British people stand," he told BBC Radio 4's PM programme.

Lucy Powell, campaign director of Britain in Europe, said the question would
offer voters a "stark choice" between ensuring British prosperity or taking a
course "fraught with uncertainty".

Leader comment, page 27

The euros 64m question

Should the United Kingdom approve the treaty establishing a constitution for the
European Union?


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 27, 2005

Budget setback for Livingstone

BYLINE: Hugh Muir

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 14

LENGTH: 416 words


Ken Livingstone's mayoralty suffered a setback yesterday as opposition parties
on the London Assembly struck a historic deal to reject his budget proposals.

After a day of occasionally ill tempered exchanges between the mayor, London's
Tories, the Liberal Democrats, the Greens, and Ukip, Mr Livingstone was told to
moderate his spending ambitions.

The assembly refused to accept the proposed 7.2% increase in the mayor's share
of council tax. He was forced to endure particular criticism of the sums he had
earmarked for Transport for London and for his free newspaper the Londoner,
which assembly members view as a propaganda sheet.

Earlier in the day, Mr Livingstone had raised the temperature at City Hall by
warning there could be further unscheduled increases in bus and tube fares if he
was forced to cut back his budget.

Fares are already scheduled to rise above inflation every year for three years
to pay for infrastructure improvements. Assembly members claim total taxes in
London have risen by 200% since he took office.

The rejection of the budget was notable because the assembly had to muster a
two-thirds majority. Though Mr Livingstone romped home in last year's election,
he no longer has enough Labour support on the authority to ensure his plans
proceed without cross-party support.

He will be particularly annoyed that both Green members on the assembly voted
against his plans. The mayor must re-submit his budget for a final budget making
meeting next month.

Andrew Pelling, a Conservative and chairman of the assembly budget committee,
said: "Today the London Assembly not only bared its teeth, it used them. The
result - lower council tax for Londoners without any cuts in frontline
services."

Graham Tope, leader of the assembly's Lib Dems, said: "This vote sends a clear
warning message to the mayor that Londoners will not put up with further tax
rises above inflation." Damian Hockney, leader of Ukip, said the mayor had to
take heed or risk damaging the credibility of London's government. But Mr
Livingstone said he faced an "incoherent" opposition.

"The real choice that will face the assembly on February 14 will be whether to
vote for cuts in transport spending that would mean either higher fares or
transport improvements cancelled," he said.

"I do not believe that Liberal Democrat and Green voters elected assembly
members to participate in a coalition with Conservative and UKIP members to cut
public transport."


LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              35 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 27, 2005, Thursday

BRIAN READE: FATHERS 4 JUSTICE

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 93 words


FATHERS 4 Justice might be linking up with the Countryside Alliance and the UKIP
to take on Labour at the General Election. What a dream ticket?

Imagine the discussion on your doorstep when the "Fathers 4 Countryside
Independence" candidate (dressed as Batman with wild eyes and a hunting horn)
turns up.

YOU: What will you do if you win power?

MADMAN: Murder foxes for a laugh and repatriate immigrants.

YOU: When do you plan to do it?

MADMAN: On alternate weekends - if that complete bitch who ruined my life lets
me.

YOU: Slam.

LOAD-DATE: January 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              36 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           January 25, 2005, Tuesday

Race for Number 10

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 21

LENGTH: 527 words

Any Tory politician who so much as mentions the words "immigration" or "asylum"
during an election campaign does so in the certain knowledge that he or she will
be accused of "playing the race card" by the Establishment. Michael Howard will
not, therefore, have been surprised that he is now having to endure such
insinuations, not only from his political opponents, but also from the likes of
Sarah Montague, the Today presenter, and spokesmen of the race relations and
human rights industries. Between now and the next election, Mr Howard may expect
plenty more opprobrium from ornaments of church and state. As a first-generation
immigrant himself, he will be accused of hypocrisy and the most cynical
construction will be placed on his motives - namely, to stop himself being
outflanked by UKIP or the BNP.

The one thing that may be overlooked is Mr Howard's policy, which he set out in
detail yesterday. Anybody who bothers to study his proposals is likely to be
struck by their moderation. The Tory leader is not hostile to immigration as
such, merely to unlimited immigration. So is Tony Blair, or so he says. But some
160,000 people - more than twice as many as in 1997 - settle in Britain every
year. Mr Howard believes that these numbers are too large to be absorbed without
undue strain on housing, public services and the quality of life. Most people
agree, including immigrants. It is not extreme to limit asylum, work permits and
family reunion to levels that Parliament deems to be in the national interest.
Migration from eastern Europe means that other states are issuing fewer work
permits to those outside the EU. Why should Britain not do likewise?

Yet Mr Howard faces a formidable task to persuade voters both that his policy of
annual quotas is reasonable and that he is able and willing carry it out. The
fact that it is based on the Australian system suggests that it is neither
illiberal nor impractical. Nobody seriously denies that Australia has prospered
under its strictly enforced controls. Thanks to the judicial activism of our
courts, Britain could adopt Tory policy only if it withdrew from the 1951 UN
Convention on Refugees and parts of the European Convention on Human Rights. By
incurring the wrath of yet more critics abroad, Mr Howard demonstrates that he
is in earnest. There is a question mark over the asylum proposals, which
contravene EU policy.

In the past week or two, the Conservatives have seized the initiative on the key
election issues of tax and immigration. Labour's response has been unconvincing
on both. Attempts to deflect attention on to Tory defections or internal rows -
a tactic that has usually paid off in the past - have fallen singularly flat
this time. It is beginning to look as if Mr Blair will need to do more to gain
re-election than splitting the difference between his own party and the Tories.
Immigration is a tricky issue: a Prime Minister anticipating his third term can
easily sound out of touch. Expect to hear some tough talk from Labour over the
coming weeks. Mr Howard should not be tempted into an auction. His policy is
sound, fair and decent. Let him stick to it.

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              37 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 25, 2005

Immigration debate: 'This is a brave move. I don't think it is right to call it
racist': Reaction Desperation, or too little, too late?

BYLINE: Laura Smith

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 1033 words


Ihtisham Hibatullah, the Muslim Association of Britain

"As a British citizen we all know our government should have an immigration
policy. On the other hand, for an opposition leader to put an advertisement in a
rightwing newspaper and try and launch his election campaign based on hatred for
a community is worrying. The message he is giving out is that he has no interest
in minority votes. It will only alienate the Muslim and other minority
communities.

"We don't need the opposition party leader to inflame the situation. We need all
the parties to talk about issues affecting communities locally - education,
healthcare, transport - rather than continuing to promote themes which are
alienating other minorities.

"If you look at the last 10 years, the country has benefited from its
immigration policy. The people who have come to this country have contributed
positively.

"Michael Howard's policy on immigration can play into the hands of extreme
rightwing organisations and unfortunately the Tory party is heading that way.
This policy will get votes from the right but the larger British audience, more
tolerant and broadminded, won't get behind Mr Howard."

Sir Andrew Green, chair, Migration Watch UK

"The Conservatives have come up with tough and radical proposals. We believe
that an annual limit on immigration is essential to reassure the public, who are
deeply concerned about the present scale of immigration.

"The fact is that immigration has nearly trebled under the present government
and 80% of the public want to see tougher immigration controls. Interestingly,
52% of ethnic minority communities take the same view.

"This is a brave move for Michael Howard. I don't think it is right or sensible
to call it racist. There has been a great reluctance to discuss this subject
because everyone is afraid of being accused of racism. That's really very silly.
When you have a serious problem, a serious public concern, it is important that
you can have an honest debate about it, otherwise you are playing into the hands
of the extremists.

"The major problem caused by immigration is congestion, in housing, transport,
the disposal of waste - the list goes on. And the feeling among many is that
there is a risk of Britain losing its own culture."

Diane Abbott, Labour MP for Hackney North and Stoke Newington

"What the Conservatives have done is blatant political opportunism. They are
doing extremely badly in the polls, they are looking at Ukip's relative success
and this is a very desperate throw of the dice to get the anti-immigration vote.

"In terms of the political debate on immigration, this represents a downward
spiral. It is worrying because New Labour will feel obliged to come out with
tough, anti-immigration stuff in response and get dragged to the right.

"I can see in my own constituency the impact of the kind of scare stories
whipped up in the media which mean that most people completely overestimate the
numbers of immigrants and asylum seekers coming to this country.

"The fact is that without immigrants and asylum seekers we wouldn't have a
health service."

Edie Friedman, Jewish Council for Racial Equality

"I find the timing of this announcement, during the week that we are remembering
people who died in Auschwitz, extremely uncomfortable.

Immigration and asylum are social issues and there are legitimate concerns which
we should debate, but the way figures are used in such an unhelpful and
dishonest way means that it is not a real debate. Asylum seekers cannot be held
responsible for all the ills of this society.

"I certainly see parallels with the experiences of Jewish people arriving in
this country. If you look back to the headlines of the 1880s and the 1930s they
are full of stories about these aliens who don't want to integrate coming and
taking our jobs and upsetting our way of life with their strange habits, beliefs
and dress. It's the same old story.

"There is a danger that Michael Howard's background could legitimise what he is
saying. But his policies go against our history. What he is doing diminishes us
in a way because when you question the concept of asylum then you question our
own history."

Simon Darby, West Midlands organiser for the BNP

"It might be a common sense policy but it is too little, too late. People here
in the West Midlands have long memories of what the Tories did.

"Whatever Michael Howard says will not have any impact. When he was home
secretary he let more asylum seekers in than anyone before him.

"We expected him to play the race card. Immigration has always been an issue.
Now, with the threat of Islam, it's become more complicated. It is not just a
question of immigration or stopping asylum seekers.

"People aren't stupid. They look at what's happened in Holland and realise what
full-blown multiculturalism is all about and it's not very pleasant. We have a
problem and we have to talk about these things. We can't sweep them under the
carpet."

David Butler, political historian

"I don't know that the issue is going to change voters from their settled
positions. Immigration has never been a decisive factor in previous elections.

"If you think of all political parties as normal actors in a strategic board
game, immigration is one of those cards worth thinking about playing if you have
no moral qualms.

"I can think of no general election in which it has been a dominant theme,
although there is no election in which you would not have put it in an opinion
polling question on voting behaviour.

"When Enoch Powell's rivers of blood was spoken about it was one of the biggest
issues in British politics which produced a visible nationwide reaction, like
the poll tax riots.

"Since then it has gone up and down. The National Front had an upsurge in the
1970s and then it subsided. However, you can't ignore the BNP, which has got
significant votes in certain parts of the country.

"Apart from in certain limited areas, I don't see it becoming the dominant theme
in this year's election. It doesn't affect most of us significantly.

"Immigration is not a vote-switching issue."


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              38 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 25, 2005, Tuesday

HIS POLICIES ARE POPULAR, HIS POLL RATINGS ARE POOR. SO WHAT'S GONE WRONG FOR
HOWARD?

BYLINE: STEVE RICHARDS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 1137 words


Michael Howard must wake up some days and wonder what he needs to say or do in
order to make political headway. The Conservatives espouse policies that are
theoretically popular. Yet the party heads for a third landslide defeat. It is a
strange mismatch. Mr Howard speaks for Britain, or a significant part of it, and
the ungrateful country turns away.

Take the case of immigration and asylum seekers. Most voters want tougher
policies. Yesterday Mr Howard promised to get tough. A Conservative government
would withdraw from the UN Refugee Convention, introduce annual quotas, adopt a
points system to identify economic migrants and introduce round- the-clock
security at ports, no doubt beefing up the round-the-clock security that already
exists. Those voters who worry more about this issue than any other, and there
are quite a lot of them, have a party that worries on their behalf.

The contrast is more marked over Europe. Polls suggest a large majority of
voters oppose the new EU constitution. At the same time, most of them want to
remain part of the EU. This is precisely Mr Howard's position. He has promised
an early referendum to put an end to the matter once and for all, but unlike the
United Kingdom Independence Party, would not withdraw from the EU. On this he is
closer to the current national mood than the pro-European Labour party and the
Liberal Democrats. More widely, on international, affairs Mr Howard represents a
significant section of the electorate that supported the war against Iraq, but
conclude now that Mr Blair exaggerated the immediate threat posed by Saddam.

As for the economy, Mr Howard pledges to maintain funding on public services
while setting aside some cash for modest tax cuts. I am told that Mr Howard and
his shadow chancellor, Oliver Letwin, fought off their more excitable
colleagues, who dream of headlines about dramatic tax cuts. Within a day of the
launch, they were rewarded by the active support of former Chancellor, Ken
Clarke. There have been times when Mr Clarke was conspicuous in his defiant
inactivity. But last week he hailed the package as the first signs of a return
to "one nation" conservatism. Mr Howard appears to have cracked it. Yes he
offers tax cuts. With the blessing of Mr Clarke he inserts a dream adjective. He
claims to offer "responsible" tax cuts.

So what has gone wrong? This column believes that taxes need to rise in order to
fund decent public services. Similarly it will put the case for a "yes" vote if
the referendum is ever held on the European constitution, and is relaxed about
immigrants, especially as a lot of them seem to be plumbers and dentists. But
this column does not pretend to speak for Britain and is not standing for
election. It remains a conundrum: why are the Tories doing so badly when their
policies chime with the instincts of many voters and powerful battalions in the
media?

The Conservatives' plight is very different to Labour in the 1980s. Then Labour
was unpopular because of its policies. Once Labour had changed the policies the
party became popular again. The Tories are in the odd position of having popular
policies and yet are deeply unpopular.

One possible explanation is that on immigration, tax and Europe this column does
indeed speak for England. Sadly I do not see much evidence for this. I am of the
view that the electorate could be persuaded to move on all three fronts, but see
little sign of such a shift yet. Still we talk of the "tax burden", as if paying
taxes is a pain that we put up with instead of the route towards better public
services. Europe is so unpopular that no Labour or Liberal Democrat leader will
dare to mention it. Labour leaders were also under instruction to keep their
heads down when the Conservatives launched their immigration proposals yesterday
in case they seemed weak on the issue. I note that when Gordon Brown speaks of
the need for a "progressive consensus" he deploys the future tense, suggesting
there is not one established yet.

The second possible reason for the Conservatives' demise is that Tony Blair has
strode on to their terrain, leaving them with no political space. On issues
relating to immigration, asylum and crime there is something in this. The former
Home Secretary, David Blunkett, under almost daily orders from Downing Street,
never lost an opportunity to be more reactionary than his Conservative
predecessors.

But on other issues Mr Blair has dared to be a little assertive. Although he has
never made it a general election issue, Mr Blair is openly pro- European. On tax
and spend, Mr Blair argues that tax cuts are not his priority - even if he does
not put the case for tax rises. Mr Blair's determination to deprive the
Conservatives of political space is a partial explanation for their conundrum.
Even so, there are still significant dividing lines between the parties - and
quite often it is Mr Howard who sings the more populist tunes.

In my view, there is a much more significant and underestimated factor behind
the Conservatives' decline. After 1997, the experienced stars of the
Conservative Party disappeared in a manner that was wholly unprecedented. A
party needs dynamic and charismatic figures at the top to communicate policies.
It is a romantic myth that parties recover from the bottom up. The opposite is
the case. Charismatic, experienced and credible figures at the top give a party
a sense of purpose, inspiring potential supporters. After the Conservatives'
defeat in 1997 John Major went off to watch cricket, Ken Clarke and Michael
Heseltine went to the backbenches. Michael Portillo and Malcolm Rifkind lost
their seats. Mr Portillo remained in the public eye, but was more likely to be
seen on television lying on a psychiatrists' couch as he explained his love for
Wagner's operas. There was virtually no one of great substance left to fight for
the Conservatives.

Again this is in marked contrast to Labour in the 1980s where the charismatic
titans all stayed on to fight their battles. After 18 years in power the
Conservatives' stars were too exhausted or unpopular to lead a revival. In the
1980s, Labour had political superstars arguing over unpopular policies. Since
1997 the Conservatives had virtually no one to communicate popular policies, or
at least populist policies.

Possibly there is a fourth reason. We obsessively speculate about what will
happen to Blair and Brown in a third term and wonder whether the Liberal
Democrats will make a sensational breakthrough. Yet staring in front of our eyes
is a party putting forward policies that command significant support. Is it
possible that the polls are underestimating the Conservatives' support and they
will perform better than anyone expects? I only ask.

s.richards@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              39 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 25, 2005, Tuesday

WEARING A CRAVAT IS ULTIMATELY A QUESTION OF CLASS

BYLINE: TERENCE BLACKER

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 33

LENGTH: 881 words


It is time for stirring new rallying cries to quicken the pulse of voters as
they prepare for the great electoral battle that lies ahead. "An end to world
poverty!" says Tony Blair. "An end to too many foreigners in our country!" says
Michael Howard. "An end to unfairness, inequality and anything that's nasty!"
Charles Kennedy will almost certainly say.

And now, Britain's newest party Veritas has nailed its colour to the mast before
the Spring offensive. "An end to cravats!" says Robert Kilroy- Silk.

This man is such a political chump that he should be declared a national
treasure and kept in political life as an amusing sideshow. Every move that he
has made in public life has been a useful reminder of what can happen to a
person whose brain has been rotted by appearing too often on TV.

From writing asinine articles about limb-amputating Arabs, to shouting "Oi! Oi!"
to attract the attention of the speaker in the European Parliament, to joining
and then leaving UKIP in a huff because he was not wanted as leader, the Kilroy
way of doing things has been consistently and entertainingly wrong-headed and
stupid.

Since he began to entertain ideas that he could contribute to our political
life, Kilroy-Silk has attempted to counter his image as an android from Planet
Bland by presenting himself as a bit of a bruiser, a character. Now, fatally, he
has gone for humour.

At Veritas headquarters (his front room), a senior party policy adviser (his
wife) must have mentioned that the party where he roosted briefly tended to
appeal to blazered, middle-management types who drink g-and- t's at the 19th
hole while chuntering on about Johnny Foreigner, regional accents on the BBC and
the ghastly four-letter men who go into politics these days. In a misguided
attempt at mockery, Kilroy identified the one aspect of these people which, he
believed, would be amusing: some wear cravats.

A clumsy sort of code is being deployed here. Kilroy likes to present himself as
a man of the people who made his own way up from the slums of Birmingham. The
reference to cravats is as clear an incitement to class contempt as would be the
mention of grouse moors by a Labour traditionalist or of cloth cap and whippets
by a Tory peer.

In his eager, blundering way, Kilroy appears to be telling us all that the party
to which he once belonged is old-fashioned and class-ridden. He judged that,
while sneering at upper-class twits or working-class yobs may no longer be
acceptable among politicians, sneering at a certain type of bufferish Englishman
was just fine.

As usual, he misjudged the situation. A side effect of the success of New Labour
has been that, over the past decade, a superficial classlessness has become de
rigueur among politicians. Until then, the social background of their senior
figures played an important, if unspoken, part in the way political parties
presented themselves and in the way people voted.

Although the Labour Party has always had a few left-leaning toffs among its
leadership, its heart, until recently, was in the union movement that once made
it strong. For the Conservatives, class was an altogether trickier area. It was
all very well dumping the tweedy, Douglas-Home image of the past, but the
party's response to Heath and Major, the jokes about their vowels, suggested
that snobbery lived on among the rank and file.

The classless society announced by Major arrived with Blair - or at least in
Westminster it did. In today's Labour Party, the union connection is played
down; even rough-hewn traditionalists like Prescott have become smoother, more
metropolitan. The opposition floundered about for while, opting first for a
bluff Yorkshireman and then a former Guards officer, before giving in to the new
classlessness. These days, it is Tories who talk with an overtly old-school
accent whose careers are likely to be affected.

The trouble is that while politicians may have gathered in the same great wine
bar in which more or less everyone speaks and dresses in the same way, the
country has lagged behind. Out there, class may be ailing but it is not dead.

Poor old Kilroy failed to see that, for a certain kind of Englishman and his
lady wife, a cravat stands for a way of life and a set of values that are not
entirely contemptible. The appearance of a party led by chaps with names like
Nigel, Gerard and Godfrey who spoke for the old country and distrusted abroad,
reassured them that they were not alone. They voted for UKIP out of instinct and
class solidarity, knowing that the party stood in some vague way for the
standards of the cravat-wearing classes everywhere.

It is not a despicable point of view. As a former cravat-wearer myself, I can
vouch that they are a comfortable, if not terribly attractive, form of neckwear.
The rumour that cravats restrict the flow of blood to the brain and can, in the
long term, cause mental feebleness to those wearing them is almost certainly
untrue.

What Kilroy forgot was that appealing to the cravatistes of British society was
virtually his only chance of getting elected. Now, having managed to insult
them, he looks certain to fall heavily on his Veritas and disappear, sadly for
many of us, from public life.

terblacker@aol.com

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              40 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 24, 2005, Monday

Howard: Why Britain must set quotas on immigration

BYLINE: By George Jones Political Editor

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 841 words

MICHAEL HOWARD will today commit the next Conservative government to ending
Britain's international obligation to take unlimited numbers of asylum seekers
and refugees.

Outlining the toughest restrictions on immigration proposed by any mainstream
party, he will say that a new annual limit on the number of immigrants is
essential.

Quotas would be set for asylum seekers and people entering the country for
family reunion or marriage.

An Australian-style points system would be applied to those arriving on work
permits to make sure that they had the skills Britain needs.

A Tory government would impose 24-hour security at ports to prevent illegal
immigrants, Mr Howard promised.

He said that Britain had reached a turning point. While it should be prepared to
take its fair share of refugees, it could not take everybody.

His uncompromising declaration angered the Commission for Racial Equality.
Trevor Phillips, its chairman, said that his efforts to reach cross-party
agreement not to "stir up race and community tensions" had become the "first
casualty" of the election campaign.

He accused Mr Howard of surrendering to the "provisional wing of his party" by
basing his proposals on the propaganda of some of the "more demented
anti-immigration groups".

Maeve Sherlock, the chief executive of the Refugee Council, was also highly
critical.

She said: "Are we seriously going to tell someone fleeing torture by Mugabe's
secret police, 'Sorry, we have filled our quota for this year - come back next
year.'?"

The Government's response was more cautious. Hazel Blears, a Home Office
minister, said Labour accepted that there were "legitimate concerns" on asylum
and immigration and would announce its plans soon.

Mr Howard signalled his determination to make curbs on immigration a central
plank of the Conservative election campaign with an advertisement in The Sunday
Telegraph, claiming that only the Tories had the "courage to tell the truth
about immigration and the courage to act".

He said that immigration had more than doubled since Tony Blair came to power
and communities could no longer absorb newcomers at today's pace. The
advertisement, which he signed, said that millions of people wanted to come
here.

"Britain cannot take them all," he said.

He rejected criticism that his policies were racist, saying they were common
sense. He cited his background as the son of Jewish refugees who sought escape
from Nazi persecution.

"Britain has always offered a home to genuine refugees and to families who want
to work hard," he said. "I know - my family was one of them."

The most controversial proposal by Mr Howard, which he will make in a speech
today, is that a Conservative government would immediately announce its
intention to withdraw from the 1951 United Nations refugee convention, requiring
Britain to take anyone fleeing from persecution.

Instead, a Conservative government would allow Parliament to set an annual limit
on the number of people coming to Britain. It would be based on information that
included the state of the world refugee crisis as well as unemployment levels
and skill shortages in Britain. The government would then inform the United
Nations high commission for refugees how many refugees Britain would accept -
likely to be between 10,000 and 20,000 a year.

Separate quotas would be set for those entering on work permits and for family
reunions.

The Conservatives have not yet put a figure on the amount of immigration they
would allow but it is likely they would want to cut net immigration to well
below 100,000 a year.

They claim that total net immigration since Labour came to power in 1997 has
averaged 157,000 a year compared with 50,000 a year during the last four years
of the last Tory government.

They say that more than 250,000 failed asylum seekers are living here - the
equivalent of a town the size of Brighton.

In an interview with GMTV's Sunday programme, Mr Howard said there were not
going to be any no-go areas in policy terms for the Conservative Party.
Immigration was causing widespread concern across the country and politicians
had a duty to respond to those worries.

Mr Howard said: "Community relations are at risk because under this Government
immigration is unlimited and out of control."

His comments and proposals brought a stinging response from Charles Kennedy, the
leader of the Liberal Democrat Party.

He said that Mr Howard was trying to woo back Right-wing voters from the UK
Independence Party.

"It is another indication of the desperation within the Conservative Party as
the general election looms large," he told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost
programme.

Alistair Darling, the Transport Secretary, claimed that the Conservatives'
spending plans announced last week would mean nearly pounds 1billion in cuts to
the immigration and nationality service, making it impossible for Mr Howard to
carry out his plans.

"That is not paperclips," Mr Darling told Jonathan Dimbleby on ITV. "That is
actually the people who police it."

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              41 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 24, 2005

ELECTION WAR ON MIGRANT MADNESS; FURORE OVER HOWARD'S VOW TO KICK OUT ALL FAILED
ASYLUM SEEKERS

BYLINE: By Alison Little Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4, 5

LENGTH: 997 words


BRITAIN'S asylum chaos will today be put at the centre of the approaching
general election battlefield.

Tory leader Michael Howard will announce a fast-track scheme to deport failed
asylum seekers under plans to dramatically reduce immigration.

In a blistering crackdown on the number of immigrants and asylum seekers
entering Britain, Mr Howard will spell out measures to stop Britain being an
"easy touch". New powers to speed up the deportation of failed asylum seekers
and streamline the processing of applications are among a raft of measures to
bring about a "substantial" reduction in numbers.

His hardline stance will put the Government's chaotic immigration and asylum
system at the heart of the general election battle.

Rattled Labour ministers were last night scrambling to insist that they, too,
were on the case.

But Mr Howard, whose parents were immigrants, will declare that only the
Conservatives can bring about the dramatic change that Britain needs.

It will involve annual quotas for the numbers of asylum seekers, workers, and
people allowed in for "family reunion" purposes, including marriage.

In a keynote speech in London, Mr Howard will say: "Most people would agree that
Britain has reached a turning point. They know that our communities cannot
successfully absorb newcomers at today's pace.

"But Mr Blair's Government has turned a blind eye to their concerns. We need to
change direction." The Conservatives raised the tempo of the debate by taking
out a full-page advert in a Sunday newspaper, bearing Mr Howard's signature,
under the headline: "I believe we must limit immigration".

Today's speech is designed to flesh out how the Conservative approach,
previously sketched out, will work in practice.

The party will:

Set an annual limit to immigration and a quota for asylum seekers.

Put in place 24-hour security at ports to prevent illegal immigration.

Introduce an Australian-style points system for work permits, giving priority to
people with the skills Britain needs.

"Taken together our proposals will make a substantial reduction in the number of
people coming into the UK, " Mr Howard will say.

The party would pull out of the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees, which the Tories
say was designed for an out-dated era and makes it harder to remove people who
do not have genuine grounds for being here.

Once that was done, the Tories would introduce new powers for the Home Secretary
to make it easier to remove unfounded asylum applicants.

This could involve firmer action against people who claim asylum only after
being discovered by the authorities, rather than on arrival.

There could also be even tougher treatment than already introduced of people who
destroy their documents or do not cooperate with the process of providing them
with new paperwork.

Failed applicants sometimes destroy documents in an attempt to frustrate
deportation, while there could also be scope to scale down appeals.

In the longer term, the Tories would stop anyone claiming asylum once they were
in Britain, on the grounds that every refugee accepted here would have already
been certified genuine by the United Nations High Commission for Refugees
elsewhere.

Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy accused the Tories of pre-election
"desperation". He told BBC1's Breakfast with Frost programme: "It is another
indication of the desperation within the Conservative Party as the general
election looms large.

"They are not making progress and they're increasingly falling back on hardcore
policies, perhaps in this case with a view to those who may have flirted with
the UK Independence Party." "But this will not really address mainstream
concerns of the moderate majority that make up the British public." Maeve
Sherlock, chief executive of the Refugee Council, warned: "Having a quota for
asylum applicants will mean turning our backs on people we know to be facing
torture and oppression." Trevor Phillips, chair of the Commission for Racial
Equality, accused the Tories of basing their policy on "the ill-informed
propaganda of some of the more demented anti-immigration groups".

THE MESS WE'RE IN. . .

BETWEEN 1998 and 2002 under Labour, net immagration - the difference between the
number vof people arriving in Britain and the number leaving - has averaged
157,000 a year compared with 50,000 a year between 1993 and 1997 - the year
Labour came to power

The net number of non-British citizens coming into the country rose from 106,000
in 1997 to 244,000 in 2002

The Government's own forecasts predict that Britain's population will rise by
more than 6.1million over the next 30 years, with immigration accounting for 84
per cent of the increase - more than five million people, which is five times
the size of Birmingham

The proportion of Britain's population born overseas will increase from under
eight per cent now to 16 per cent by the middle of the century

The number of asylum seekers rose from 32,830 in 1994 to 84,130 in 2002, not
including applicants' spouses and children, which would bring the figure up to
103,000

After Tony Blair pledged a clamp-down the number of asylum applications dropped
in 2003 to 49,730 - but this was still 65 per cent higher than it was in 1996

There are more than 250,000 failed asylum seekers - equivalent to the population
of Brighton - living in Britain

Only one in five failed asylum seekers is removed from the UK. Just 17,040 were
deported in 2003 - 40 per cent short of Labour's 30,000 target for that year

The number initially refused us rose from 66 per cent in 2002 to 83 per cent in
2003. But most who are refused asylum go on to appeal

The legal aid budget for asylum and immigration has soared from £26million in
1996-7 to £204million in 2003-4 - a 682 per cent increase

In the past three years there have only been nine prosecutions and three
convictions for employing illegal immigrants

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              42 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 24, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Immigration: Rational debate recedes

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 17

LENGTH: 633 words


Politicians have a right to address people' s fears, but a responsibility to
avoid inflaming ill-informed prejudices. Yesterday in a full-page advertisement
in the Sunday Telegraph Michael Howard exercised his political right to talk
about the need to limit immigration, but in a language that ignored his
responsibility to avoid fanning unfounded fears. Only last week senior
representatives of the three main political parties met at a breakfast
conference of the Commission for Racial Equality (CRE). The aim was a pact under
which this year's election campaign could debate immigration without stirring up
race and community tensions. Given the negative nature of Mr Howard's comments,
the chance of such an agreement now looks remote.

Trevor Phillips, the chair of the CRE, in a rare outburst against a single
political leader declared his disappointment: "It appears that Mr Howard has,
against his own better instincts, and for purely political reasons, surrendered
to the provisional wing of his party to base this campaign, not on measured and
rational debate, but on the ill-informed propaganda of some of the more demented
anti-immigration groups."

If that sounds harsh consider both the current state of community relations and
the language of the advertisement. An opinion poll in 2003 suggested the British
public believed the UK received 23% of the world's refugees. In reality the
entire European Union takes only 3%, with the UK down in eighth place in the EU
league table in terms of refugees per head of population. Tabloid scare stories
clearly have more impact than facts.

Now consider the advertisement. It talked about "millions of people in other
countries who want to come and live here. Britain cannot take them all." It
suggested Labour supported unlimited immigration, which it does not. Ports would
have 24-hour security, though how this would be financed was not stated. It
explained the Conservative quota plan for reducing immigration before declaring
a turning point had been reached, even though net immigration numbers have
stayed steady since 1998 and asylum applications cut by 70% since 2002. It ended
with an assertion, which its earlier claims had already contradicted, that "only
my party has the courage to tell the truth about immigration and the courage to
act".

The message was simple and stark: immigration was out of control. All this from
a man, who, in his time in charge of the Home Office, allowed backlogs of asylum
seekers to climb into the tens of thousands with many having to wait for five
years for a decision. To be fair there was a brief moment earlier this year when
his leadership of the Conservative party seemed to be heading in a constructive
direction. He went to Burnley in February and delivered a stinging attack on the
values of the BNP. Better still he embraced multiculturalism and applauded the
way immigrant communities had held on to their traditions. But then came the
rise of the United Kingdom Independence Party (Ukip) in June's Euro elections.
There followed a private declaration - later leaked - by Liam Fox, Conservative
co-chairman, that the key issue to woo Ukip voters back to the Tories was
immigration and asylum. The new tough Tory line, including withdrawal plans from
two international conventions, followed.

The pattern, alas, is similar to the path followed by William Hague in the run
up to the 2001 election. He began as a compassionate Conservative, but ended up
with a hard anti-immigrant line. It did not do Mr Hague any good. Hopefully, it
will not help Mr Howard. But no one should be complacent. Immigration in the
1992 election, as Andrew Lansley, the then Tory research director later
confessed, played particularly well "in the tabloids and has more potential to
hurt".


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 24, 2005

Countdown to the election: Analysis: Fear mutes response to Tory migrant policy

BYLINE: Patrick Wintour

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 525 words


The notable thing about yesterday's Conservative drive to put immigration at the
top of the agenda was the response it produced from the other mainstream parties
- not outrage or claims that the Tories were playing the race card, but a muted
promise that they too would take action.

The reason is simple. All the political parties know, as Tony Blair puts it,
that although asylum may not be the No 1 issue with many voters it is the No 1
grievance. More than a quarter of voters, according to some polls, regard
immigration as the most important issue facing Britain and no party can afford
to be seen to dismiss the issue with an election coming up.

This is new. In Labour's last two campaigns immigration was a lower profile
issue, but rising migrant numbers and a shift in the national mood will ensure
it is centre-stage this time. Research conducted by academics from Manchester
University, published in the New Statesman last week, claims that one in five
voters in Britain now share at least some views with the far right.

They point to surveys such as the British social attitudes survey showing that
the attitude to immigration is hardening and remark that 21% of the electorate
in last year's European elections voted BNP or Ukip.

With much of the print media happy to run scare stories, and the public willing
to believe them, Labour is nervous. Michael Howard is not as easy a target as
previous Tory leaders since he is from an immigrant family. Simple charges that
the Conservatives are extremists do not wash.

The absence of David Blunkett, the one Labour figure who speaks to the English
working class, has also unsettled No 10.

As a result, the standard allegation that Mr Howard is playing the race card by
proposing an annual cap on immigrants was not wheeled out yesterday by Labour or
the Liberal Democrats.

Charles Kennedy did describe Mr Howard's plans as "a sign of desperation" in the
Tory party, but he added: "There is no doubt whatsoever that there is a public
concern which political parties in parliament need to address about immigration
and asylum policies."

With Labour due to publish its own proposals in the next few weeks, the party
was reduced to attacking Mr Howard's proposals on the grounds they were
unworkable and unfunded, rather than claiming Mr Howard was fomenting a
non-existent crisis.

Hazel Blears, the Home Office minister, said the Tories' planned £35bn spending
cuts would prevent them delivering their promises.

"Everybody agrees with controlled migration," she said. "That requires
investment in both effective border controls and immigration systems. Michael
Howard's words and the Tories' spending plans are at odds."

The difficulty for the government is that few trust the official statistics.
Speaking at a Fabian conference a fortnight ago, Claude Moraes, a Labour MEP,
argued that an independent body should be set up to "restore sanity and balance
in the debate".

He said its figures would have greater public credibility than the Home Office
statistics and prevent the debate being dominated by irresponsible and
misleading media coverage.


LOAD-DATE: January 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              44 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 24, 2005, Monday

MATTHEW NORMAN'S MEDIA DIARY

BYLINE: MATTHEW NORMAN

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 899 words


British newspapers are often regarded as spiteful, carping things, yet there are
times when common decency demands we lay aside the rancour and celebrate one of
our own. The emergence of Robert Kilroy-Silk as a political leader is just such
a case. Other press folk have made their mark in politics - Lord Beaverbrook,
then owner of the very Sunday Express for which Robert writes such a thoughtful
column, sat in Churchill's cabinet - but he may yet surmount them all. Indeed,
in the days since his defection from UKIP to form his own party, political
historians have already come to see him as our most impressive right-wing
ideologue since Roderick Spode founded the Black Shorts. But it is another
literary figure with whom Robert invites comparison. He plans to call his new
movement Veritas, and with such venerable analysts as Anthony Howard and Alan
Watkins going mad trying to work out the inspiration, I'm pleased to be able to
help. The last would-be political leader to launch a party with a Latin name was
Mary Shepherd, better known as Miss Shepherd, but best known as The Lady In The
Van. She was the old girl who spent her last years in a trailer parked first
outside Alan Bennett's North London home, and then in his back garden. In the
1980s, Miss Shepherd informed Mr Bennett that she'd be standing at the next
general election under the Fidelis banner. If the aims and beliefs of Fidelis
tended towards the vague, touch wood the precedent stretches no further. Even
Alan Bennett's patience might not survive the arrival of a camper van containing
Robert Kilroy-Silk outside his house in Camden Town.

Mention of rightist ideologues brings us naturally to Kelvin MacKenzie, and his
ITV vehicle (in this case, sadly, a hearse) Vote For Me. This auditioned wannabe
MPs over a week, finally selecting as its parliamentary candidate an ex-con with
views on race to make Kilroy look like a militant version of Darcus Howe. Even
Kelvin seemed embarrassed, and you wonder if it's now time for him to do what
show winner Rodney Hylton-Potts advises members of ethnic communities, and leave
Blighty for good. He already has a place in France, but after such a fiasco,
even that seems too close for comfort. I've always seen the Cape Town suburb of
Constantia as the dear old chap's ideal retirement venue, and it may be that
Mark Thatcher's looking for a quick sale at a knock-down price. Worth a thought,
at least.

My thanks to Private Eye for confirming last week's item, in light of the Daily
Mail's searing rage towards Prince Harry, about Mail on Sunday executives
attending a 1992 party dressed as Nazis. In strict truth, I wasn't absolutely
sure that I remembered all the details correctly, so it's a relief to see the
them repeated elsewhere. It's come to something when you rely on Private Eye as
your fact-checking service, of course, but there it is and I'm grateful all the
same.

Speaking of journalistic accuracy, we reluctantly return to my so-called rival
media pundit, Stephen Glover. The weekly apology in his Spectator column goes to
The Guardian (last week it was the FT, whose circulation he unilaterally
slashed) over a leader about the bank robbery in Belfast allegedly done by the
IRA. Every time Stephen trots out one of these apologies, invariably laced with
a self-serving sweetener or some pious self-justification, he lets the Spectator
down, he lets the Barclay Brothers down, and he lets the entire guild of media
commentators down. Most of all, of course, he lets himself down. Stephen, I
don't want to tell you this again ... DO. SOME. WORK!

Then again, at least Stephen does make apologies, of sorts, when needs be, which
is more than we can say for the Daily Telegraph sports section. For the last
fortnight, Mihir Bose has been rubbishing this newspaper's reports that Kenneth
Bates was poised to buy Leeds United. This was duly confirmed on Thursday night,
yet oddly it appeared in Friday's Telegraph not as a page lead or even as a
story in its own right, but tacked on at the end of another report about
Chelsea, and even then downgraded from a done deal to ongoing discussions. Poor
show.

I am intrigued to hear that Mark Kermode, a regular on Newsnight's Late Review
but primarily a film critic (he joins the Most Reverend Simon Mayo on Radio 5
Live each Friday), may be a beneficiary of deed poll. Mark, whose teddy-boy hair
and fixation on schlock-horror movies firmly establish him as the Pauline Kael
de nos jours, was apparently known to the roll call of his north London school
as either Mark Fairy, Mark Faery, Mark Fairhy, Mark Faerhee or Mark Fairee. If
anyone has precise details, or better still a birth certificate, please pass
them on.

A vignette of the reality TV age from Celebrity Fit Club. Starring alongside
darts titan Andy Fordham in the current series is Lizzie Bardsley, who came to
the nation's attention as the peculiarly unlovable mother on Wife Swap, earning
herself the Homeric epithet "foul-mouthed benefits scrounger" in the red tops.
Since then Mrs B has been on enough reality shows to establish herself as the
underclass's answer to Brigitte Nielsen. When she turned up for Celebrity Fit
Club, she arrived with her PA.

Finally, a request to editors of all print and broadcast media. A total news
blackout, please, on Ellen MacArthur. It's the only way she's ever going to
stop.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              45 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 24, 2005, Monday

HOWARD'S ASYLUM QUOTAS ATTACKED

BYLINE: BEN RUSSELL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 623 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Michael Howard: It is not racist. It's common sense'


MICHAEL HOWARD came under fire yesterday for publishing a personal statement
placing immigration at the centre of the next general election.

The Conservative leader was accused of basing his policy on "ill-informed
propaganda" as he used a signed full-page newspaper advertisement to promote the
party's proposals for annual quotas on refugees, migrant workers and family
reunions.

Mr Howard will reinforce his message with a speech today promising 24-hour
border patrols and pledging to renegotiate the 1951 UN Convention on Refugees.

Mr Howard's full-page advertisement in the Sunday Telegraph, warned: "There are
literally millions of people in other countries who want to come and live here.
Britain cannot take them all."

Mr Howard, whose father fled to south Wales from Romania in 1939, added:
"Britain has reached a turning point. Our communities cannot absorb newcomers at
today's pace."

His move was attacked as "desperation" by the Liberal Democrat leader, Charles
Kennedy, while immigration groups said his intervention was "dangerous and
irresponsible". Mr Kennedy said: "I think that it's another indication really of
the desperation within the Conservative Party as the general election looms
large.

"They're not making progress and they are increasingly falling back on hardcore
policies, perhaps in this case with a view to those who may have flirted with
the United Kingdom Independence Party in days gone by. But this, at the end of
the day, will not really address mainstream concerns of the moderate majority
that make up the British public."

Trevor Phillips, chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality, criticised Mr
Howard's "negative" campaign. He said: "It appears that Mr Howard has, against
his better instincts and for purely political reasons, surrendered to the
provisional wing of his party to base this campaign, not on measured and
rational debate but on the ill-informed propaganda of some of the more demented
anti-immigration groups.

Maeve Sherlock, the chief executive of the Refugee Council, said: "Having a
quota for asylum applicants will mean turning our backs on people we know to be
facing torture and oppression."

But Labour was more muted in its response, with ministers pledging to publish
their own proposals for strengthening border controls within weeks.

Hazel Blears, a Home Office minister, said Labour accepted there were
"legitimate concerns" over asylum and immigration. "Everybody agrees with
controlled migration. That requires investment in both effective border controls
and immigration systems, but last week the James review committed the Tories to
cutting both," she said.

Alistair Darling, the Transport Secretary, told ITV's Dimbleby programme: "I
think everybody accepts that the whole question of immigration and asylum is
difficult, it shouldn't be treated like a party political football. If people
have got sensible ideas then we ought to look at them, we ought to see what we
can do to handle what is a difficult situation."

Conservatives insisted they were not "playing the race card" and argued that
they were simply responding to public concerns. Mr Howard said: "Some people say
this is racist. It's not. It's common sense."

In his speech today Mr Howard will outline details of the party's immigration
plans, which include setting up an Australian-style points system for economic
immigrants and negotiating to end asylum applications at Britain's borders.

Mr Howard wants to agree to take a fixed number of refugees from the United
Nations High Commission for Refugees, in effect exporting the process of asylum
applications.

Leading article, page 30

Bruce Anderson; Yasmin

Alibhai-Brown, page 31

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              46 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 24, 2005, Monday

DESPERACE;
 HOWARD TO PICK ASYLUM IN CAMPAIGN

BYLINE: ROSA PRINCE POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 392 words

HIGHLIGHT: EMBATTLED: Tory Michael Howard


MICHAEL Howard was yesterday branded "desperate" for promising to curb the flow
of immigrants as key to the Tory's general election campaign.

In a high-profile policy launch today the Conservative leader will repeat old
pledges to tackle immigration with the introduction of a quota system for asylum
seekers.

Yesterday, in a newspaper advert, he wrote: "Britain has always offered a home
to genuine refugees and to families who want to work hard.

"I know - my family was one of them. But... our communities cannot absorb
newcomers at today's pace.

"Immigration must be brought under control. Some people say this is racist. It's
not. It's commonsense."

Mr Howard's family, Romanian Jews, escaped the Nazi gas chambers by taking
refuge in Britain. Liberal Democrat leader Charles Kennedy said Howard was
trying to woo back right-wing voters from UKIP.

He told BBC's Breakfast with Frost: "It is another indication of the desperation
within the Conservatives as the general election looms large."

Transport Secretary Alistair Darling added: "Whatever else, you need the people
to police the system. The Tories announced a reduction of nearly £1billion in
immigration.

"That isn't paperclips, that's actually the people who police it. The whole
question of immigration and asylum is difficult. It shouldn't be treated like a
party political football."

The Tory's have a history of playing the 'race card'. Howard's predecessor
William Hague took a similar lurch to the right shortly before the Tories were
thrashed at the polls four years ago. And in 2003 Iain Duncan Smith slammed the
asylum system in his leader's speech at the Conservative Conference.

Meanwhile the Tories trail Labour in the polls 31 per cent to 34 per cent, with
the Lib Dems on 25 per cent.

IMMIGRATION: A TORY CURSE

The Government has created a situation in which there is sustained and
systematic abuse of our asylum laws.

WILLIAM HAGUE, MAY 18, 2001

JUNE 8, 2001: Hague quits after a disastrous showing by the Tories at the
General Election.

The asylum system is a disaster - spiralling out of control. While Tony Blair
travels the world, the world is travelling here

IAIN DUNCAN SMITH,

OCTOBER 9, 2003

OCTOBER 29, 2003: Tory MPs axe Duncan Smith as leader in a brutal reaction
against his lack- lustre policies.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              47 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 24, 2005

FILL EUR BOOTS

BYLINE: Michael Lea from European Correspondent, in Brussels

LENGTH: 610 words


Exposed: Whopping cash bungs of our Eurocrats

THE monthly take-home pay of fatcat eurocrats is regularly MORE than their gross
salary, The Sun can reveal.

Wage packets of EU "Sir Humphreys" -on up to Pounds 140,000 a year -are swelled
by generous tax-free perks worth thousands.

Those who work directly for EU institutions pay no national taxes -only a levy
to Brussels of around 16 per cent of their BASIC salary.

But this is outweighed by a 16 per cent bonus on the ENTIRE package for expats -
just for working abroad.

Rules state this benefit alone should not be less than Pounds 3,900 a year.

On top of that they enjoy a host of tax-free allowances worth thousands.

Details are in a bonuses bible -known as The Statut -kept close to hand by all
30,000 civil servants.

The Sun has managed to see a copy which outlines perks such as:

* CASH REWARDS for living abroad.

* MONTHLY household and child allowances and PAYMENTS for becoming a parent.

* FREE private education for the kids.

* MOVING and settling in costs.

One official employed by the European Parliament crowed: "It's a package you
would expect to be given to a top executive of a multi-national.

"New EU employees on the same salary they earned at home find themselves
pocketing a massive pay rise."

Article 69 of the gravy train guide says the eurocrats are entitled to an expat
allowance equal to 16 per cent of their basic salary plus household and
dependent child allowances. A household allowance is set at Pounds 110 a month
plus two per cent of the official's basic salary.

For an average earner on Pounds 25,000 a year that works out annually at about
Pounds 1,800 -just for being there.

Each dependent child up to the age of 18 is worth a further Pounds 2,418 a year.

And the payout -on top of a Pounds 2,000-a-year school fees allowance -is
continued until the age of 26 if the child is "receiving educational or
vocational training".

Officials and their families are also insured by the EU against sickness -up to
80 per cent of treatment costs.

They are also members of lucrative pension schemes, which can be worth up to 70
per cent of final salary.

Pensions are linked to years' service. Article 77 states officials qualify for
the payout after ten years.

By contrast 13 million workers in Britain are facing a pensions crisis.

The eurocrats -who get six weeks holiday -are also allowed extra days off if
they get married or move.

Tory MEP Daniel Hannan said: "The system's chief purpose is to look after its
own."

UKIP Euro MP Jeffrey Titford said: "These privileges are beyond the wildest
dreams of the majority of hard-working people in Europe."

TRAVEL

EUROCRATS on business trips get a daily food and accommodation allowance. In
France, where the European Parliament meets four days each month, it amounts to
Pounds 125 a day. In Britain it is Pounds 174.

They are also entitled to one free trip home for themselves and their families
every year.

SCHOOLS

THEY are entitled to Pounds 2,000 a year per child to help pay for private
school education. The allowance can be claimed until a child is 26.

The Sun told in October how Pounds 90million of taxpayers' cash had been set
aside to pay for the top notch education of 19,267 pupils at 13 schools across
Europe.

HOMES

OFFICIALS get an "installation allowance" equal to two months salary to help
them settle in to life abroad. Moving costs are also met.

They also receive two months salary for "resettlement" if they quit their post
and return home -as long as they have been in their job for at least two years.


LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              48 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 24, 2005, Monday

A voter's dilemma

SECTION: Features; 18

LENGTH: 133 words


From Mr Peter Watts

Sir, From the start, I was always against the attack on Iraq and last year I let
my membership of the Conservative Party lapse because I could no longer stomach
the support it gave to the Government over Iraq.

Therefore I could not bring myself to vote Conservative at the next election.

Voting new Labour is unthinkable. The Lib Dems' stance on Iraq might suit but
their facile attitude to Europe alarms me and voting UKIP is unimaginable as I
am a pro-European.

I might visit the polling booth if there is a voting box "for those democracy
supporters registering their inability to choose even a poor alternative to the
present political parties".

Yours sincerely, PETER WATTS, 1 Godolphin Close, Newton St Cyres, Exeter EX5
5BZ.

January 18.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 23, 2005

UKIP MAN A SUCKER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 39

LENGTH: 156 words


THE man behind the rise of the UK Independence Party is a toe-sucking foot
fetishist who romped with a £110-an-hour prostitute.

American Dick Morris, now chief political strategist for the anti-Europe party,
is famous as the man who got Bill Clinton into the White House.

But he resigned as Clinton's adviser when his year-long kinky affair with
high-class hooker Sherry Rowlands was revealed.

Morris, 56, boasted of his close relationship with the Clintons as he squatted
before her, asking that she dominate him and make him lick her feet.

"He loved someone else to be in control after he'd had a trying day, " Sherry
said.

After the scandal broke he became a political expert-for-hire and last week
attended an Exeter training seminar for UKIP election candidates.

UKIP spokesman Mark Croucher said: "There is no denying his outstanding talent
and we would have been silly to overlook his offer of help."

LOAD-DATE: January 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              50 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 23, 2005, Sunday

HOWARD TO RISK RACISM' CHARGE

BYLINE: ANDY MCSMITH POLITICAL EDITOR

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 5

LENGTH: 244 words


Michael Howard will run the risk of being accused of "playing the race card"
tomorrow when he accuses the Government of allowing immigration to get out of
control.

Mr Howard is expected to allege that the Government's immigration policy is
encouraging criminal gangs to engage in people trafficking, and favours
immigrants who have the money to pay the traffickers over those with a genuine
claim to be here.

An advertisement in today's Sunday Telegraph, paid for by the Tory party, claims
that "there are literally millions of people from other countries who want to
come and live here. Britain cannot take them all. Immigration has more than
doubled under Mr Blair. He believes that immigration should be unlimited. The
Liberal Democrats agree."

The Tories claim that an average of 157,000 immigrants have arrived each year
since Labour came to power.

But his critics will say that the advertisement and the speech that Mr Howard
will deliver along the same lines tomorrow are an attempt to recapture votes
that have been lost to the UK Independence Party.

In a pre-recorded interview for today's GMTV Sunday programme, Mr Howard said:
"There are few things that are more important for our country than good
community relations. But they are at risk because under this Government
immigration is unlimited and out of control, immigration has doubled under Mr
Blair.

"There's been no debate about it, no consultation, no discussion."

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              51 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                            January 23, 2005, Sunday

QUOTES OF THE WEEK

SECTION: Final Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 156 words


We should not accept the implicit assumption of Bush's muscular foreign policy
that freedom can be delivered from 38,000ft through the bomb doors

Robin Cook

Former foreign secretary

Well, it looks as though we've lost a member. He's gone, we wanted him to go, it
only remains to break open the champagne

Roger Knapman

UKIP leader, on the departure of the MEP Robert Kilroy-Silk

The shrimp was lousy and the Champagne tasted like water

Ian McShane

Actor, reported to have said in his thank-you speech after winning a prize at
the Golden Globe awards

Everything is easier in France. We pay more taxes, but the hospitals don't kill
you

Kristin Scott Thomas

Actress

In 14 years of international competition, I never lost to a Frenchman and I
don't see why I should start now

Lord Coe

Olympic gold-medallist, on London's chances of beating Paris, the favourite to
host the 2012 Olympic Games

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              52 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 23, 2005

Howard steps up attack on asylum

BYLINE: Gaby Hinsliff, Political Editor

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 485 words


MICHAEL Howard will invoke the spectre of race riots today as he claims that
'uncontrolled immigration' is putting community relations at risk - and pledges
a draconian clampdown on asylum.

Refugees would be banned from applying for asylum on British shores and forced
to do so from abroad under Conservative proposals, which Howard will argue could
help curb people traffickers who prey on vulnerable people.

A quota would also be slapped on how many refugee seekers Britain is prepared to
take, and once the limit was reached even those with genuine claims to
persecution would be rejected. Similar quotas would be set on legal migration
under an Australian-style points system.

The Tory leader's decision to go on the offensive over asylum and immigration -
with a newspaper advert today listing his beliefs about immigration, claiming
Britain has 'reached a turning point' and only his party has the 'courage to
act' - risks charges of playing the race card.

But the party is banking on rising anxiety over immigration to boost its
fortunes - and neutralise the threat from the far right UK Independence Party.

'Our community relations have on the whole been good, better than most other
countries of our size, but they are at risk because under this government
immigration is unlimited and out of control,' Howard says in an interview to be
broadcast today.

'It's been running at an average rate of 160,000 a year, that's the size of
Peterborough every year, and it's forecast over the next 30 years to amount to
over five million people, five times the size of Birmingham. Now I think that is
going to put great strain on our community relations - and you don't have to
take it from me.

'After the Bradford disturbances (race riots during the summer of 2001) the
government set up its own community cohesion panel and it said in its report
that immigration does cause strain.'

He said the Tories would introduce 'proper 24-hour scrutiny' of ports.

The party has been badly stung by previously pledging to process asylum seekers
offshore without explaining where this would happen, prompting taunts of a
'fantasy island' policy. Howard will tomorrow identify detailed plans, expected
to involve the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.

Last night the government, shortly to unveil its own proposals on asylum and
immigration, stopped short of attacking Howard over the policy in a sign both
parties are jittery about the issue. Hazel Blears, the Home Office Minister,
said Labour 'shares people's legitimate concerns over asylum and immigration',
but said the Tories' plans made no financial sense.

A YouGov poll last night for the Sunday Times showed fewer than one in seven
voters believe Tory pledges to cut spending but deliver better services - but
with Labour's poll ratings slipping, there are just three points between the two
parties.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              53 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                January 23, 2005

Comment: Why we're on the wrong flight path: The A380 Airbus is emphatic proof
that we can co-operate with Europe, yet still we prefer to look west

BYLINE: Will Hutton

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 30

LENGTH: 1171 words


FOUR EUROPEAN leaders jointly hailed last week the arrival of a piece of
frontier technology that will transform the lives of millions and has created
and will continue to create tens of thousands of jobs. That it was all through
an act of European co-operation does not fit the British script. Matters
European are, by definition, a failure, bureaucratic, job-destroying and futile.
Success is American.

Yet the A380 Airbus, unveiled in Toulouse last Tuesday, is a bit of a problem
for Eurosceptics. Here is a 550- seater, double-decker aircraft that will ferry
passengers in the same volumes as a big express train with breakthrough levels
of fuel efficiency and at half the noise levels. Already terminals round the
world are being enlarged; the technologically advanced A380, with its
Rolls-Royce Trent 900 engines and British wings, is going to transform and
cheapen air travel, accelerating the pace of globalisation and making the world
smaller just as the Boeing 747 once did. It's a European project that works,
while breaking a former US monopoly.

Yet there's a background chorus of criticism, even mockery; the plane could
never have been built without government subsidy, will pollute the world with
yet more air travel and is doomed to be a white elephant. And it's all based on
a misconception. People don't want to fly cheaply in sky trains from big city to
big city; they want to fly in smaller aircraft from regional city to regional
city. And the appetite for air travel is slowing down.

I think the criticism is wrong on every count. Airports have already outstripped
traditional seaports as centres of both travel and economic activity; the runway
in the 21st century is playing the same critical role as docks and wharves did
in the 19th, the driver of economic development and urban energy alike.

What's more, people are increasingly on the move. Businessmen and women,
scientific researchers and even the ordinary holidaymaker are all attracted by
the cornucopia of opportunity opened up by globalisation.

Big city airports are forming a global network and the world needs big planes to
move people between them. The days in which most people never moved more than
five miles from where they were born are a thing of the distant past - and good
riddance to them.

IN THIS RESPECT , the A380 is Europe's gift to the world rather as the Jumbo was
America's 35 years ago. But no one country or company could have accepted the
risk. From inception to launch, it has cost some £9.5 billion to develop, which
as long as it boosts its sales from the current 149 to more than 300 should be
recouped. At £150 million a plane, the auguries are good, but another terrorist
attack or unforeseen technical failure could still threaten its viability. On
the other hand, if passenger numbers con tinue to grow exponentially, the market
could be a 1,000 planes or more, replacing the Boeing 747 as the workhorse of
the next 20 years,in which case the A380 could become one of the most profitable
industrial projects in history. My hunch is that this is what is set to happen.

And Britain, via its shareholding held by BAE Systems, will be a beneficiary,
although BAE reportedly is considering selling the potential goldmine on which
it is sitting because, strategically, it wants to dissociate itself from Europe
and integrate into the US market. Probably Britain's worst-run industrial
enterprise, this would finally consign it to the dustbin, but its endemically
weak strategic thinking seems to be infected by the same Euroscepticism that
propels Ukip, the Conservatives and Labour's Empire Loyalists, even when it's
directly against its shareholders interests.

In a choice between being a low-level subcontractor to US industry or trying
risk sharing in European aerospace and defence projects - the costs and risks
are too overwhelming to go it alone - BAE Systems can be relied upon to opt
unhesitatingly for the US option.

Indeed, the fact that Britain has a stake in Airbus at all is against the odds;
Labour Eurosceptics, lead by then minister of technology Tony Benn, dropped our
original 37.5 per cent Airbus stake in 1969 to chase what seemed like superior
American collaboration. But when it became obvious that all that was on offer
was the kind of subordinate contracting still offered today, Prime Minister
Callaghan rejoined in 1978 but with a reduced 20 per cent shareholding.

As an act of indecision, it has cost Britain billions of pounds of lost work and
condemned us to a junior role in world civil aerospace. The consolation is that
it could have been worse; if the arguments were rerun in today's ruinous
Eurosceptic climate it would have been.

For not even the once mighty Boeing can fund the kind of risks inherent in big
civilian aerospace projects. Famously, it wagered the company in the late 1960s
by committing $ 6bn in today's money to build and develop the 747; it was a
natural gamble from a company then committed to engineering excellence.

But without support from the then rich US airlines and their government-rigged
price structure, a dodgy system of tax rebates for export sales and lush grants
from the Pentagon for aerospace research, even Boeing couldn't have thrown the
dice.

AS IT WAS, IT very nearly went under, and after being the object of an attempted
asset-stripping takeover bid in 1987, its new priority became maximising
shareholder value rather than building innovative planes. And it has being going
downhill as a centre of engineering and research excellence ever since. Last
year, Airbus outsold it for the second year running.

What European governments are doing by supporting up to a third of Airbus's
costs through long-term repayable grants, the object of a long-standing
vitriolic trade row with the US, is playing the role of long-term, patient and
engaged owner that today's peripatetic, short-term shareholders will not do.

The cycle of investment and return in the A380 will take a generation. Even if
we had aerospace entrepreneurs of the vision and patience of William Boeing
today, the scale of the investment would be beyond them. Governments have to
step in to close the market failure over time and scale; without them, the A380
couldn't have happened either in Europe or the US.

And no European government is large enough to go it alone, forcing them into
collaboration, and the vehicle they have is the European Union. As with civil
aerospace, so with defence and, as we have seen recently with the Huygens space
probe to Titan, space.

It is a sign of how debased the debate over Europe now is that last week too few
leading politicians, businessmen or commentators chose to put their head above
the parapet and argue the merits of European collaboration.

There could be more examples to join the A380 if we wanted, but our preferred
place is to be the US's political and industrial poodle, costing us money, jobs,
technology and pride. It's a very special British tragedy.


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              54 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            January 23, 2005, Sunday

Stand up for proper tax cuts, timid Tories

BYLINE: David Smith

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 1154 words


There is not much call in the world of publishing, understandably, for the
memoirs of economic journalists.

If there were, I would be tempted to call mine (with apologies to the late Spike
Milligan), Opposition Tax Plans: My Part in Their Downfall.

In 1992, a pivotal election that Labour expected to win after 13 years in
opposition, a colleague and I got wind of John Smith's tax-raising shadow budget
before it was unveiled and published details in this newspaper.

The timing was critical. The Tories marshalled their forces, undermined the
shadow budget before it was published and squeaked a narrow victory despite an
economy struggling to emerge from a long recession.

In the run-up to the 2001 election, I wrote suggesting that the Tories could
square the circle of higher spending on health and education with the tax cuts
that had been in the party's DNA since 1979. Labour was raising spending by £68
billion over three years. Why not pledge a still generous £60 billion, leaving
£8 billion for tax cuts?

Nobody was more surprised than me when, a few days later, the £8 billion became
Tory policy, fleshed out in the ensuing weeks as the party demonstrated how it
would eke out savings without harming a hair on the head of public services. If
it had worked Michael Portillo, rather than gracing these pages, might be
plotting his fourth budget from his lair in 11 Downing Street.

We know why it did not happen. Research in the British Election Study tells us
two things about tax and spending. One was that most voters did not believe that
it was possible both to increase public spending and to cut taxes. They were
wrong.

At a time of rapidly rising public spending it is possible to siphon off some
for tax cuts. But most people take a static view on this: the same pound cannot
be used twice.

The second killer blow for the Tories was that the electorate continued its
ideological journey after the 1997 election. Tony Blair's victory was on the
back of a shift from the individualism of the 1980s towards new Labour's soft
collectivism. Tax cuts were out; public spending was in.

However, 1997 was not the high-water mark for that change. Voters continued to
move in the direction of extra spending, perhaps because the government itself
was highlighting the poor state of the National Health Service and state
education.

The Tories were not unaware of this. The debate between the Portillistas and the
Hagueites was over whether the party should abandon tax cuts. The promised £8
billion was not huge but it was too big for the electorate. Detailed poll
evidence shows that Tory tax and spending policies were perceived to be well to
the right of where voters were.

So the Tories have moved again. Of the £35 billion savings uncovered in the
review by company doctor David James, announced last week, two-thirds
(£23billion) will be ploughed into public services, £8billion will go to pay off
government borrowing and £4billion will be used for tax cuts. That does not get
you very far these days: £4billion is worth just over a penny off the basic rate
of income tax.

Oliver Letwin, shadow chancellor, has one of the sharpest brains in parliament
but the political calculations behind these numbers display a childlike
simplicity.

Labour is certain to raise taxes soon after the election and voters are fully
aware of it.

If voters expect Labour tax hikes, therefore, the Tories do not need to promise
much in the way of tax cuts to put some clear water between them and the
government. So £4billion is a step in the right direction.

How will the Tory tax and spending plans play? It is a measure of the party's
lack of ambition that there is a sense of relief that last week's launch,
effectively the start of the election campaign, got coverage. A once-great party
now frets about being ignored.

Blair and Gordon Brown, in attacking the plans yesterday, even did the Tories a
favour by making the proposals seem more radical than they are. The chancellor,
claiming they would mean £50 billion of spending cuts, appears to be up to his
old double-counting tricks.

But the Tories, as in 2001, risk being caught in political no man's land. Once
again, most voters will see the simultaneous promise of tax cuts and public
spending increases as voodoo economics.

At the same time traditional Tory supporters, who will be lured by the likes of
UKIP, Robert Kilroy-Silk or Rodney Hylton-Potts or who do not intend to vote at
all, will not be tempted back into the fold by the promise of a measly Pounds
4billion. Between 1992 and 2001 the Tories lost nearly 6m voters; the majority
of them did not switch to Labour.

What should the Tories do? They hope that by staying close to Labour on public
spending they will be ideally positioned when the government slips up. The
insistence last week by party spokesmen that the Tories have "changed" and now
have a heartfelt commitment to public services -gaining the approval of Kenneth
Clarke, if not Robert Jackson -underlines the point.

It is, however, a blind alley. Pigs will fly before the Tories are trusted more
than Labour on public services. The party will get nowhere by being a pale
shadow of Labour. The difference between the two parties is that Labour taxes
will be 40.2% of gross domestic product and Tory taxes will be 39.9%. Too close
for comfort or to have any effect on voters anxious for an alternative to
another four years of Blairism.

Nick Herbert of the think tank Reform argues persuasively that the Tories have
left themselves with the worst of all worlds. Their offer of a tiny tax cut
looks like a crude last-minute election bribe, while their promises on spending
will continue to look dodgy.

If the Tories believe in lower taxes, Michael Howard and his shadow ministers
should be arguing for them passionately. They should point out the corrosive
effects on economic growth of big government and the invigorating impact on
enterprise of significant tax cuts. If they do not believe it, they barely have
the right to call themselves Conservatives.

The evidence is there. Other Anglo-Saxon economies, not just America but also
Ireland, Australia and New Zealand, are cutting taxes and outstripping growth in
Britain. In eastern Europe countries are introducing flat taxes. The Tories know
the arguments but they are biting their lips.

Letwin will say that whatever the intellectual case for tax cuts, to promise big
reductions now would be suicidal, a guarantee of the party's electoral downfall.

He will say the Tories cannot afford to be seen so far to the right of voters.
But the Tories face a drubbing anyway. They cannot simply wait for the political
pendulum to swing back, condemning the country to another four years without an
effective opposition.

If defeat it is to be, far better to go down fighting.

Rod Liddle is away


LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              55 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                January 23, 2005

WHY I'M NOT GOING TO INVITE CRAVAT MAN TO MY PARTY; BEYOND UKIP. . .KILROY
REVEALS HIS VISION FOR A NEW FORCE IN BRITISH POLITICS

BYLINE: EXCLUSIVE By Tim Shipman

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 16

LENGTH: 670 words


CANDIDATES for Robert Kilroy-Silk's new political party will be banned from
wearing cravats, blazers and "silly hats" in a bid to convince voters they are a
serious political force.

The Sunday Express columnist and former TV presenter has taken a sideswipe at
figures in the UK Independence Party after leaving them last week.

He is determined to distance himself from what he sees as the "crank" reputation
that surrounded Ukip.

And he says his new party, provisionally called Veritas - Latin for "truth" -
will be boosted this week when more than 100 prospective parliamentary
candidates, constituency chairmen, money men and members leave Ukip to join him.

Mr Kilroy-Silk has already received the backing of several Midlands businessmen
to fund a party headquarters, a call centre and literature for a "serious"
general election campaign.

He refuses to comment until the formal launch of the party at a high-profile
event in February, but a source close to the former daytime talk-show host
confirmed he has already written a draft manifesto encompassing everything from
Europe to crime and immigration to pensions.

More than 20 parliamentary candidates have already been vetted with full
criminal record checks, to avoid embarrassments.

And to make sure he gets the people he wants, Mr Kilroy-Silk has also penned a
guide to how candidates should behave on the campaign trail.

A source revealed: "There is a handbook. It says there will be no one wearing
cravats, blazers, funny hats or twirling umbrellas.

Ukip is full of old duffers. All the young people in Ukip will come over to us.
We will only take the people we want."

Mr Kilroy-Silk wants to avoid the maverick atmosphere that surrounds leading
Ukip figures like Nigel Farage, the party's leader in the European Parliament
who is famed for his eccentric headgear, and Godfrey Bloom, the blazer- wearing
MEP who told women to clean behind their fridges.

Wearing a 1920s check cap while campaigning, Mr Farage said: "One of the things
about Ukip is that they don't look and sound like other politicians.

"It is a constant complaint of the public that all politicians come from the
same identikit.

"If there aren't resignations from among the East Midlands party I would be very
surprised, but the number of people that go to Kilroy-Silk because of a cult of
personality will be very small."

Mr Kilroy-Silk's supporters - many frustrated at Ukip being a one-issue group -
say he will win more defectors because he wants to focus on issues other than
his desire to pull out of the European Union.

Prospective parliamentary candidates resigning from Ukip include Frank Leeming,
Martin Bardoe, Ray Dixon, Ray Porter, Mark Harrison, Gill Allen and Ken
Roseblade.

The Veritas source said: "This is a serious venture. Getting out of Europe is
important, but so are crime, pensions and low tax.

Robert will be talking about the culture of British identity."

Alex Stevenson, chairman of the South East Derbyshire branch of Ukip, who has
poured more than £10,000 into party coffers said: "I've been a member of Ukip
for four-and-a-half-years.

I've put in quite a lot of my own money and I am leaving. It was so
disorganised. I kept asking for guidance on policies other than Europe and it
never came. Robert has told me the new party will have a range of policies."

Mr Kilroy-Silk helped boost Ukip in the European elections but fell out when
they refused to make him leader. His supporters say they were ignored by party
bosses. Mr Stevenson added: "I am ashamed to have been part of them. They are
not a democratic party."

YOU READ IT HERE FIRST

As our regular readers know, the Sunday Express continues to break important
stories that other newspapers just haven't spotted.

Our exclusive in last Sunday's paper about the mountain rescue team who were
refused a lottery grant was eventually picked up by our rival the Daily Snail
last Tuesday.

So don't forget - you read it here first.

LOAD-DATE: January 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              56 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            January 23, 2005, Sunday

Kilroy's cruise Rhyme & Reason

BYLINE: by Peter Pindar

SECTION: News; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 144 words

Robert Kilroy-Silk launches new party called Veritas; world cruise ends after
110 miles (With apologies to W S Gilbert and his HMS Pinafore)

I am the Captain of the Veritas;

I won't dock in foreign ports.

I decide on what to do,

With no passengers or crew

To distract my lonely thoughts.

So I'll comb my hair and stare in the glass

At the handsome Captain of the Veritas.

I am the Captain of the Veritas,

Late of HMS Ukip,

Where when utterly at sea

I stirred up a mutiny.

They were grateful when I jumped ship.

Now I'll kill the Tories with my blunt cutlass,

I'm the deadly Captain of the Veritas.

I am the Captain of the Veritas,

Like Aurora under way.

And judging by the past

I'll be lucky if I last,

Still afloat, by polling day.

You can keep the world - it will be all right

If I make it once around the Isle of Wight.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              57 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                 Sunday Mirror

                            January 23, 2005, Sunday

CAROLE MALONE: CHOOSING YOUR POISON

BYLINE: CAROLE MALONE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 67 words


DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon could lose his seat to Robert Kilroy Silk in the
next election. In a strop at not getting his own way in the UK Independence
Party, the execrable ex-TV presenter is setting up his own party called Veritas
and is targeting Hoon's seat in Ashfield, Notts.

Pity the poor voters of Ashfield. It's like being asked to choose between
Ghenghis Khan and Attila the Hun.

LOAD-DATE: January 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              58 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 22, 2005, Saturday

LETTER: MEP MORALS

BYLINE: DR CHRIS GORDON

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 44

LENGTH: 77 words


Sir: I was under the impression that elections to the European Parliament were
by proportional representation and therefore votes were cast for the party
rather than the individual.

As Mr Robert Kilroy-Silk has resigned the whip of UKIP (report, 21 January) and
stories suggest he may leave and start his own party, it is interesting to
speculate whether he has either the moral or legal right to remain an MEP.

DR CHRIS GORDON

Bredbury, Stockport

LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              59 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 22, 2005, Saturday

I am overshadowed by thoughts of rebuttals, rebukes and opprobrium

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Features; 29

LENGTH: 735 words


And they are off. It is 11 o'clock and the boys at Cowley Street predict that
the clock will never strike 13. Sure enough, a couple of hours later it has not.
It is, though, time to hear from the guys at Old Queen Street. They tell us that
we will see pigs flying over Westminster before anyone will believe the fellas
from Victoria Street -our next stop. Their message is that they can give each of
us back about three quid a week and still spend ever increasing sums on schools
and hospitals.

Welcome to Week 1 of my weary trudge through a treacle of claim and counter
claim from Lib Dem to Labour to Tory headquarters. The politicians have had
seared into them the idea that nothing said by your opponent should ever be left
unanswered or unchallenged for more than a few minutes. And so journalists are
invited to hop on Westminster's merry-go-round of "prebuttal", "rebuttal" and
"rebuttal of the rebuttal" news conferences, dossiers and e-mails. It is a
dizzying spin.

Just think, there are only ten weeks until the election campaign proper starts.
I can hardly wait. I plan to fill my waiting hours dreaming up an alternative to
that unattractive word "rebuttal". How about a confutation or a debunk or a
rebuke? No, I think the parties should invite us to attend an "opprobrium". Any
other suggestions?

I WAS struck by how little the Tories' tax plans were "overshadowed" by the news
of yet another Conservative MP defecting to the other side. Overshadowed, I
should tell you, is one of my least favourite bits of journalese. It is
journalists who choose to give more attention to one thing than another. Yet
many use "overshadow" to suggest that they are reflecting a force of nature
beyond their control.

This week, reporters chose not to let the Conservatives' plans be overshadowed.

Was it out of a sense of duty to the electorate, respect for the policy work the
party had done, sympathy for the underdog or fear that killing off the
Opposition this early would be bad for trade? Whichever it was -probably a mix
of all the above -the Tories ended the week rather surprised by how good they
felt.

You might suppose that their mood was the elation of a man who has just survived
falling from a high building -more a matter of confounded expectation than an
objective assessment of their circumstances. There is more to it than that.
Robert Jackson was not particularly popular on his own side. His former
colleagues are delighting at the spectacle of this Fellow of All Souls and
follower of the Old Berkshire Hunt telling his Labour comrades that he has
joined their ranks because they were ready to charge kids to get an education.

The sight of Kenneth Clarke riding to the party's rescue -on these pages -
steadied Tory nerves. He once memorably declared that politics was the ideal
profession for a second-class intellect. This is a test Labour's newest recruit
fails. He was once spotted in the Commons library translating a Times editorial
into Ancient Greek. When asked why, he explained it was "to fill time".

SO THE tally of Tory defectors grows. Eleven who were elected when John Major
took the party to its last victory have now switched sides: five to Labour, four
to the Lib Dems and one each to the UK Independence Party, the Referendum Party
and Ian Paisley's Democratic Unionists. Many of the young ambitious Tory hacks I
knew at university have followed suit. Listen to the ideas emerging from
Labour's manifesto-writing sessions and you can see why. Ideas such as choice
and competition in the NHS, private companies running schools, offering tenants
a stake in their council house take their place alongside a commitment to
positive engagement in Europe and "sound money". Proof once again that
Conservatives lost the electoral battle even as their philosophy won the war.

EVER KEEN to hear evidence that the election may still be a nailbiter that will
prompt people to switch on TV news night after night, I pass on the wisdom of
the people's psephologist -John Curtice. Apparently, if there is an end to the
tactical voting which helped Labour so much in the past two contests, if the
polls are as wrong as they were then and if the Lib Dems get their normal
campaign bounce, the result will be a hung Parliament. See. It is not going to
be boring after all.

Nick Robinson is political editor of ITV News nick.robinson@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 22, 2005, Saturday

Voters who threaten Labour plans to sweep the election board

BYLINE: Tom Baldwin

SECTION: Home news; 34

LENGTH: 1857 words


The terrain on which the next general election campaign will be fought is
starting to come into sharp focus for political insiders, reports Tom Baldwin

ANYONE surveying the frantic political activity of the past week -in which
posters have been unveiled, a defecting MP was paraded by Labour and Tory tax
cut plans were launched -might think the election campaign had already started.
In fact, if not in law, they would probably be right.

But hidden beneath this week's ripples on the Westminster pond, there is a
submerged electoral terrain that could yet have profound consequences for the
coming campaign.

One of Tony Blair's chief strategists talks of the "jagged underwater rocks"
that Labour hopes will remain hidden by a high tide of votes at the next
election.

"We're ahead in the polls, but a turn-out which falls below a certain level
could scupper a whole lot of seats," the source said.

The main political parties are now making efforts to map out -and then navigate
their way around -the hazards lurking beneath these waters.

They have spent millions of pounds on programmes that are designed to identify
the issues motivating individual swing voters.

In the weeks ahead these voters can expect to be bombarded by telephone
canvassers working from new call centres recently established by both Labour and
the Tories, as well as by mobile text messages and direct mail shots.

Labour's campaign will be based around a series of personalised "new offers" of
a better life, while Conservative policies are being presented as a direct
appeal to people who might be persuaded to back them again. This was also
reflected in Mr Blair's visit to Watford on Thursday, his third regional visit
in as many weeks and part of a clear strategy to trawl for votes below the
surface of a hostile national media.

Labour has already announced that it has scrapped the battle bus convoy for
journalists and the daily press conferences of previous campaigns, so that it
can make direct contact with the public, local issues and the regional media.

Private polling shows that the young are less likely to vote than the elderly,
the middle class opposes the war more than the white working class, while the
sexes increasingly disagree across a range of issues.

The issue of asylum-seekers is one of the few on which the Tories have a
decisive lead over Labour. It may also mean that the BNP will get sizeable votes
in some constituencies, such as the northern former mill towns where it has won
council seats.

However, a similar fear that immigration would cost Labour seats in South Coast
ports proved largely unfounded at the last election.

Andrew Cooper, the director of Populus, which conducts polls for The Times,
said:

"People who feel strongly about (immigration) probably are not voting Labour
anyway."

He suggested that hunting is a similar issue, even though the Countryside
Alliance is planning to pour activists into 50 seats where Labour backed the
ban. "Hunting is only a huge issue in areas which are already Tory, like
Oxfordshire and Gloucestershire," he said.

Labour believes its best chance of winning another 100-plus majority in the
Commons is to stay as focused as possible on the national picture. It will tell
reluctant supporters that Mr Howard could slip in through the back door if they
fail to vote. Fraser Kemp, Labour's deputy general election co-ordinator, makes
a distinction between "the ground war and air war" in the coming campaign.

"We will address local issues, but we should never lose sight that this election
is about the economy, the NHS, crime and whether you want Tony Blair or Michael
Howard to run the country," he said.

"People (receive) hundreds of different advertising messages in a day and we
must compete with (those) by being simple, clear and consistent. If we fight
different campaigns on the ground, we (will) confuse the message -and we might
end up sounding like the Lib Dems."

Labour's defeat in the Leicester South by-election last year, as well as a
near-escape in Birmingham Hodge Hill, showed it the capacity of the Liberal
Democrats to come from third place.

Both these seats had large numbers of Muslims and other ethnic minorities, whose
traditional support for Labour has been undermined by the Government's role in
the Iraq war. Some of these votes could go to the Respect party, led by George
Galloway, the former Labour MP who will be standing in Bethnal Green and Bow.

The war also appears to have damaged Labour's "Volvo vote" in middle-class seats
such as Islington South, as well as costing the support of students, who are
already mobilised against the Government over top-up tuition fees.

The Liberal Democrats are targeting constituencies including Edinburgh Central,
Cambridge, Oxford East, Cardiff Central, Bristol West and Leeds North West,
which have huge student and professional populations.

Some of these votes could go to the Greens, who are consistently getting 2 to 3
per cent in the opinion polls. One scenario is that a sharp decline in Labour
support could produce victories for Tories in seats such as Hove -without
needing to pick up a single extra vote themselves.

Much will depend on whether Labour still benefits from tactical voting in seats
where the Conservatives were second in the last election. Lord Rennard, the
Liberal Democrat chief executive, said yesterday that he believed that some of
his party's supporters might yet be persuaded to back Labour against the Tories
"But this will not happen if Labour treat us badly and attack Charles Kennedy."

He said that the apathy that produced a low turnout of 59 per cent in 2001 was
now being replaced by an antipathy towards the Government.

Labour had success in heading off the Liberal Democrat challenge with an
aggressive campaign in last year's Hartlepool by-election. Indeed, there is now
a genuine contest between Labour and the Liberal Democrats across a swath of
urban seats, particularly in the North and the Midlands, which could threaten
the anti-Tory coalition of the past two general elections.

The Liberal Democrats still have their best chance of gaining seats in the Tory
constituencies that represent the overhelming majority of the 109 seats where
they are currently second.

Lord Rennard said that tactical voting will work in their favour in these seats,
which include that of Michael Howard, the Conservative leader, in Folkstone and
Hythe, as well as those of David Davis, Theresa May, Tim Collins and Oliver
Letwin. "There are 10,000 Labour voters in Folkestone and Hythe -will they be
able to resist voting for us?" he asked.

The prospect of a "Tory decapitation" will be further increased if the UK
Independence Party retains some of the votes it won in last year's European
elections. The rise of this minority party is a symptom of the volatility of
voters, writ large by their fascination with the quixotic Robert Kilroy-Silk who
has left it and may stand against Geoff Hoon in Ashfield.

In the event of a high turn-out, some of these factors could help Labour to win
with little more than a one-third share of the national vote.

Leading article, page 29

Brown's Britain

Weekend Review, page 12

* SINGLE-ISSUE SEATS

*EDINBURGH CENTRAL -STUDENT VOTE

Seat held by Alistair Darling, the Transport Secretary, with a 8,142 majority
over the Liberal Democrats. It has a high number of middle-class professionals
and students.

The issue of Iraq, as well the presence of the Scottish Parliament in the
capital, appears to have drained much Labour support

*ISLINGTON STH & FINSBURY -VOLVO VOTE

Seat held by Chris Smith, who is quitting at the election, with a 7,280
majority.

The Lib Dems already control the council in this posh liberal area where Tony
Blair once lived.

*MONMOUTH -HUNTING VOTE

Seat held by Huw Edwards for Labour with a majority of 384 over the
Conservatives.

His support for the ban has made him a top target for Countryside Alliance
activists who point out the combined membership of two local hunts is greater
than his margin of victory over Tories in 2001.

*DORSET WEST -DECAPITATION?

Held by Oliver Letwin, the Shadow Chancellor, with 1,414 majority over Lib Dems.

Presence of the UKIP this time could tip the balance.

*BOSTON & SKEGNESS -UKIP FACTOR

Seat held by Mark Simmonds for Tories with a 505 majority over Lab. In last
year's Euro-elections the UKIP won more votes than any other party and another
good performance could make this a Labour gain.

*BETHNAL GREEN & BOW -MUSLIM VOTE

Held by Oona King, a pro-war Labour MP, with a 10,057 majority. More than 50 per
cent of voters are from ethnic minorities, mostly Bangladeshi Muslims. Last
year's European elections showed it was split evenly between Labour, Liberal
Democrats, Respect and the Conservatives. George Galloway is standing for the
anti-war Respect.

*DOVER -IMMIGRATION VOTE

Seat held by Gwyn Prosser for Labour over Tories with a 5,199 majority, which
was halved at the last election when the problem of asylum-seekers was a big
local issue.

*

*STUDENT SEATS

1 Edinburgh Central Alistair Darling (Lab) 8,142

2 Oxford East Andrew Smith (Lab) 10,344

3 Cardiff Central Jon Owen Jones (Lab) 659

4 Manchester Withington Keith Bradley (Lab) 11,524

5 Bristol West Valerie Davey (Lab) 4,426

6 Hove Ivor Caplin, retiring (Lab) 3,171

7 Cambridge Anne Campbell (Lab) 8,579

8 Leeds North West Harold Best (Lab) 14,935

*HUNTING

9 Worcester Michael Foster (Lab) 5,766

10 Monmouth Huw Edwards (Lab) 384

11 Stroud David Drew (Lab) 5,039

12 Ynys Mon Albert Owen (Lab) 800

*MIDDLE-CLASS URBAN SEATS

13 Islington South & Finsbury Chris Smith, retiring (Lab) 7,280

14 Hampstead & Highgate Glenda Jackson (Lab) 7,876

*PLUS Edinburgh Central; Cambridge; Cardiff Central (see student seats)

*LITTLE ENGLAND

*UKIP could influence:

15 Boston & Skegness Mark Simmonds (Lab) 505

16 Dorset West Oliver Letwin (C) 1,414

*Robert Kilroy-Silks challenge:

17 Ashfield Geoff Hoon (Lab) 13,268

*BNP active in: 18 Keighley Ann Cryer (Lab) 4,005

19 Burnley Peter Pike (Lab) 10,498

*SCOTTISH NATIONALISTS

20 Dundee East Iain Luke (Lab) 4,475

* IMMIGRATION/ASYLUM

21 Dover Gwyn Prosser (Lab) 5,199

22 Medway Bob Marshall-Andrews (Lab) 3,780

23 Norfolk North West Henry Bellingham (C) 3,485

24 West Bromwich West Adrian Bailey (Lab) 11,355

*PLUS Folkestone and Hythe (see decapitation seats)

*DECAPITATION SEATS

25 Dorset West Oliver Letwin (C) 1,414

26 Haltemprice & Howden David Davis (C) 1,903

27 Maidenhead Theresa May (C) 3,284

28 Folkestone & Hythe Michael Howard ( C) 6,322

29 Westmorland & Lonsdale Tim Collins (C) 3,147

* MUSLIM SEATS

30 Bethnal Green & Bow Oona King (Lab) 10,057

31 Dewsbury Ann Taylor, retiring (Lab) 7,449

32 Birmingham Hodge Hill Richard Burden (Lab) 7,798

33 Leicester South Parmjit Singh Gil (Lib Dem) 1,654

34 Blackburn Jack Straw (Lab) 9,249

35 Bradford North Terry Rooney (Lab) 8,969


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              61 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                January 21, 2005

UKIP'S A JOKE - KILROY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 89 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk is to quit the UK Independence Party, he announced last
night.

The talkshow host turned Euro MP said he was now ashamed to be a member.

Mr Kilroy-Silk confirmed he would stand at the general election but refused to
say if he would be setting up a new party.

However, he is widely expected to establish a party called Veritas - the Latin
for truth.

The East Midlands MEP has been locked in a row with UKIP bosses over his
ambitions to be leader.

He said people now saw the party as "a joke".

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                              62 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 21, 2005, Friday

Kilroy-Silk leaves Ukip, saying party is a 'joke'

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; Politics Pg. 14

LENGTH: 580 words

ROBERT KILROY-SILK quit the UK Independence Party last night with a scathing
attack on its "self-serving cabal" of leaders who had failed to turn it into a
mainstream party.

In the first phase of a move which will lead within weeks to the launch of his
own political movement, Mr Kilroy-Silk lambasted Ukip's leadership for betraying
millions of people who backed the anti-EU party in last June's European
elections.

Speaking at a meeting of Ukip activists in the East Midlands, he said the party,
which only recently he hoped to lead, was seen as "a joke".

"I am ashamed to be a member. I shall advise people not to vote for it," said Mr
Kilroy-Silk, 62.

Ukip's lack of desire to become a "mainstream political party" and lack of
General Election ambition was why "I am announcing my resignation from Ukip", he
said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk made clear that he would now seek to unite the Eurosceptic vote
with a broader-based party boasting more than just withdrawal from the EU as its
policy.

"I shall be leading a vigorous campaign for the causes I believe in," said Mr
Kilroy-Silk, who insisted his desire "to see Britain a self-governing democracy"
was undiluted. Mr Kilroy-Silk, already a Euro-MP, confirmed that he would stand
for Parliament in the General Election expected on May 5.

He will almost certainly stand for a seat in the East Midlands area he
represents in Brussels.

Senior Tories privately concede that Mr Kilroy-Silk's high profile may get him
elected, but they are pleased that the Ukip-inspired vote may now split.

Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader on the European Parliament, expressed "massive
relief" at Mr Kilroy-Silk's departure and said it would not dent the party's
General Election push.

Mr Farage also rejected Mr Kilroy-Silk's attacks as nonsense and insisted
supporters defecting from Ukip would not come from the party's main areas in the
south of England.

Mr Kilroy- Silk's new party, named Veritas, Latin for truth, is likely to be
launched in February but as yet has no major financial backers.

Many Ukip activists are expected to defect to the Kilroy-Silk camp. But others
are checking out who Mr Kilroy-Silk is working with to create the new party.

Last night it emerged that the internet domain "veritasparty" was registered on
Dec 30, apparently at the address of a fringe movement called The Commonwealth
Party and led by a Dr Jonathan Lockhart. Mr Kilroy-Silk declined to comment on
the connection.

Last night's resignation ended the former TV presenter's flirtation with Ukip,
which he joined last spring.

Backed by the money of Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire millionaire, and the celebrity
appeal of Mr Kilroy-Silk, the party went on to a breakthrough success in last
June's European elections by winning 12 seats and a 16 per cent share of the
vote.

But almost immediately Mr Kilroy-Silk's belief that Ukip was failing to
capitalise on the success, coupled with his clear ambition to replace Roger
Knapman, the former Tory MP who leads the party, plunged the party into public
infighting.

The hard line of Mr Kilroy-Silk, a one-time Labour MP who last October urged
Ukip to "kill" the Tories, led Mr Sykes to refuse to bankroll the party's
General Election campaign.

Last night Mr Kilroy-Silk told party activists that last June's results "could
have been a turning point in British politics".

Instead, Ukip bosses "went Awol" and "betrayed the millions who were looking for
a very different kind of political leadership".

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              63 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 21, 2005, Friday

Shadow home secretary David Davis ...

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 29

LENGTH: 93 words

Shadow home secretary David Davis is already facing a strong Lib Dem challenge
in his Haltemprice and Howden constituency at the election.

But now, Spy hears, he could have an unwelcome challenger from the UK
Independence Party. "UKIP is about to select a candidate and the short-list
includes one David Davies," I'm told. "With David's thin majority, having this
guy's name above his on the ballot paper could cause quite a headache for him."

Davis dismisses any threat. "My constituents are far too smart to fall for such
dirty tricks," he says.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              64 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 21, 2005

KILROY HINTS AT PARTY TO BEAT UKIP

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 168 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk last night hinted that he will be forming a new political
party, moments after officially quitting Ukip.

The former Labour MP and TV chatshow host boasted he had received countless
calls from Ukip members asking to "join" him.

And Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, also launched a final stinging attack on his former
party - claiming he would not want to poach any of their MEPs.

Speaking moments after resigning, he said: "More than half of Ukip and more than
half its candidates, probably, on the indications I've had in the last couple of
days seem to ring up and say, 'Robert, can we join?'" Despite refusing to
confirm outright that he is about to form his own new Eurosceptic party,
rumoured to be called Veritas, the Sunday Express columnist could not resist the
chance to take a swipe at Ukip's 12 MEPS. He said: "I don't want them.

"I've heard this thing said that the MEPs would not work with me.

I heaved a huge sigh of relief because I frankly do not rate any of them."

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              65 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                January 21, 2005

UKIP'S HIDDEN AGENDA TO SPLIT THE TORY VOTE

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 355 words


LORD DERAMORE asks whether there are any grounds to his gut feeling that the UK
Independence Party now hates the Conservatives more than it loathes Labour and
LibDem. The answer, my lord, is you're quite right but the motive is not hatred.
Under our constitution it is in order for a government to designate a political
movement's agenda as "contrary to British interest".

Once so designated, it is lawful for intelligence agencies to monitor such
organisations. Usually MI5 (internal spooks) are used.

About 10 years ago, even though growing scepticism of the direction of the EU
was a majority view here, Euro-scepticism was so designated.

Under Blair, "monitoring" has become active destabilisation. The spooks' plan
was simple but clever.

Instead of launching a dummy proBrussels party, they penetrated the country's
most anti-EU party, Ukip.

That's why its orientation has been steadily and increasingly to contest the
seats of the Conservatives' most robustly Euro-sceptic MPs and prospective
candidates.

The aim? Split the Tory vote and let Labour or Lib-Dem slip in. This accounts
for Ukip standing against some of the toughest Tory Eurosceptics, so long as
their majority is slim enough to be vulnerable.

Blair's declared aim (The Unfinished Revolution) is to destroy all parties
opposed to him and create his Hundred Years of Blairism.

That is why Ukip chief Roger Knapman (not a bear of enormous brain) is
contentedly unaware that two Government moles are deep inside the fabric of his
party and have been for years, working to Government instructions, which are to
destroy every possible chance of Tories winning seats. So those voting Ukip
against a cracking Tory candidate are happily doing Blair's and Brussels'
business for them.

Please do not be shocked. It is exactly what governments Labour and Tory used to
do to the extreme Left when they were run by the Comintern. All that is new is
that those who love this country more than they appreciate rule by Brussels are
now seen as Blair's enemies and thus Britain's enemies.

OK, Lord Deramore? That is us and a few others!

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              66 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 21, 2005

End of the affair as Kilroy-Silk storms out of 'self-serving' Ukip

BYLINE: Michael White, Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 502 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk threw Britain's rightwing fringe into disarray last night
when he confirmed mounting speculation that he is leaving the UK Independence
party, which he helped snatch third place in the 2004 European elections.

The former daytime TV star, who became one of Ukip's 12 MEPs last June after
being sacked by the BBC for anti-Is lamic remarks, used a well-trailed speech at
Hinckley golf club - part of his east Midlands electoral base - to denounce the
"self-serving cabal" in charge of Ukip for "squandering a golden opportunity".

Mr Kilroy-Silk, whose call at last year's Ukip conference to "kill" off the
Conservatives helped split the party, told supporters: "I will advise people not
to vote for the party. To do otherwise will be dishonest, to pretend the party
has a pur pose - when in fact it is a charade, an empty vessel."

Behind last night's falling-out lies the fact that the so-called "perma-tan"
politician, a former politics lecturer and a Labour MP from 1974-83, had failed
in his demands to be made Ukip's leader - with the clear intention of making
them a force in domestic politics.

Last night's formal split may ease the pressure on Michael Howard, some of whose
MPs wanted him to toughen his stance on EU membership to ward off further
rightwards defections to Ukip.

In media interviews yesterday the 62-year-old MEP ducked earlier indications
that he had sufficient personal and financial backing - apart from his own
fortune as a TV entrepreneur for 15 years - to start his own party, called
Veritas.

Paradoxically, Mr Kilroy-Silk's potential as an anti-establishment candidate
rests on his fame and platform skills.

He has hinted at standing for Westminster again, though speculation about taking
on Geoff Hoon, the defence secretary, in Ashfield is discounted. Instead Mr
Kilroy-Silk accused Ukip colleagues - whose whip he resigned last autumn - of
"betraying millions of people" by squandering the opportunity to become a major
political force. The party received nearly 3m votes in last year's elections.

Instead of taking advantage of a "turning point" when Britain's "silent,
disillusioned majority" finally found its voice, Ukip's leaders repeated the
mistakes of the party's past - "they went Awol," he said.

"They had achieved their goal. They had got elected as MEPs. So off they went to
Brussels, with expense-account lunches and generous subsidies, never to be heard
of again. They were happy," the MEP told supporters.

In a statement, Ukip pointed out that Mr Kilroy-Silk was elected thanks to their
supporters' hard work and expressed "disappointment" that "he felt unable to
work as part of our team". He was urged to "resign his seat so that a genuine
Ukip MEP may take his place to represent what the electorate voted for" - as EU
systems of voting permit.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is almost certain to reply that the boot is on the other foot:
Ukip tripled its representation because of the publicity he generated for it.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 21, 2005, Friday

KILROY SILK QUITS UKIP, BRANDING IT AS A JOKE

BYLINE: BEN RUSSELL POLITICAL CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 211 words


ROBERT KILROY Silk's short and stormy fling with the UK Independence Party
finally ended in an acrimonious divorce last night.

He resigned from the party with a furious swipe at his former comrades as he
declared that he was now "ashamed to be a member".

In a vitriolic resignation speech at a Leicestershire golf club, the former
daytime television presenter stopped short of formally launching his own rival
party, but made it clear that he would be standing at the next general election.

The MEP's new political grouping, which may be launched in the coming weeks, is
likely to be called Veritas, the Latin word for truth.

Mr Kilroy Silk said in his resignation speech yesterday: "I have to say that the
party is regarded by those outside it as a joke. I am ashamed to be a member. I
cannot ask people to vote for it because it has no policies, no spokespersons,
no energy, no vision, no idea of how Britain should be governed.

"Instead I shall advise people not to vote for the party. To do otherwise will
be to be dishonest, to pretend that the party has a purpose when in fact it is a
charade, an empty vessel."

UKIP dismissed Mr Kilroy Silk's charges. A spokesman said: "If we're that duff
why did he want to lead us last week?"

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              68 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                            January 21, 2005, Friday

PAUL ROUTLEDGE: BUFFY SLAYER

BYLINE: PAUL ROUTLEDGE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 146 words


GLAMOUR-boy Robert Kilroy-Sulk (perhaps that should read "Silk") has taken his
bat home.

He's quitting the UK Independence Party to form a new team with the provisional
title of Veritas, a steal of the Latin word for truth.

He threatens to stand against Defence Secretary Geoff "Buff" Hoon in Ashfield,
Nottinghamshire. On the face of things, there is no contest. In 2001, Buff won a
majority of nearly 23,000, making it one of Labour's safest seats. So Mr Vanity
will get a drubbing.

But beware. In 1977, when it was a coal mining constituency, a Labour margin of
almost exactly that size was overturned at a by-election, letting in the Tories.
And the East Midlands is Kilroy-Sulk's favourite stamping ground - he won his
Euroseat here.

If I were Buff, which thank the Lord I'm not sir, I'd give the order to break
out the brown trousers right away.

LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              69 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 21, 2005

KILROY QUITS TO START NEW PARTY

LENGTH: 35 words


Ex-TV host Robert Kilroy-Silk last night quit the UK Independence Party after
failing in his bid to be its leader.

The Euro MP is expected to set up his his own party called Veritas - Latin for
truth.


LOAD-DATE: January 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              70 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 21, 2005, Friday

Smooth as Silk in the media stakes

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 12

LENGTH: 269 words


Now that the smarmy Robert Kilroy-Silk has obligingly quit the United Kingdom
Independence Party its candidates, who are doomed to lose their deposits at the
next election, have had to turn elsewhere for advice on being telegenic.

So it is interesting to read the confidential memo sent to the UKIP's finest, a
copy of which was passed to me, on how to handle the media.

The document tells candidates how to dress (no small task, given the shocking
wardrobes of many of the dandruffy old men who comprise the UKIP hierachy) and
even how to sit in a chair when being interviewed on television.

"Avoid reds," it says (meaning red colours, not communists), "tight stripes or
checks -the strobe, and dark and white, which throw the colour balance."

On the knotty issue of how to sit in a chair, it advises: "Get you back off the
back of the chair and sit UPRIGHT, maybe slightly forward...Try to pretend you
are in your favourite pub and have just got chatting with a stranger."

A party with more than its fair share of swivel-eyed fanatics is told: "Look the
interviewer in the eye. This is very important as wandering eyes look shifty."

Journalists are like nettles, says the memo. "If you get one lot under control,
another will spring up." It also compares the media to a "protection racket".
"Go along with them, give them what they want."

There is the all-important tip on how to cope with hacks on the doorstep in
moments of scandal. "You cannot afford to slam the door or run away. They will
capture this on film and show it as evidence of your guilt." They are learning.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              71 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 21, 2005, Friday

UKIP linked to BNP as Kilroy-Silk finally quits

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 31

LENGTH: 151 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk resigned from the UK Independence Party last night. The
independent MEP intends to contest a seat in the general election after founding
a new party, provisionally called Veritas.

A study showed yesterday that the UKIP shares a voter-base with the British
National Party. Peter John, Professor of Governance at Manchester University,
has studied exit polls from the local, European and London mayoral elections
last year. He said that both parties used the rhetoric of politically incorrect
"truthtelling" as the main part of their appeal. The polls showed that about
half of those who voted BNP in local elections voted for the UKIP in the
European election, said Professor John in the New Statesman.

A spokesman for the UKIP said that the party had no links to the BNP and that if
its voters had previously considered the BNP it was out of a lack of any
alternative.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              72 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 21, 2005, Friday

Time for voices of dissent to find new refrain

BYLINE: Magnus Linklater

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 26

LENGTH: 586 words


IT must count as some sort of success for devolution that the Opposition parties
find life such a struggle. The "big arguments" about Scotland's future, the ones
that should lend weight to a counter-attack against the Executive are harder to
sustain. For all the criticism outside parliament of ministers and their
inadequacies, the alternatives inside it seem less convincing now than they did
five years ago.

Independence, the nationalist flagship, has become almost an embarrassment. For
the Tories, rolling back the power of the state is considered neither an
effective vote-winner nor a good debating gambit. For both parties, trying to
land a telling blow these days is like punching a eiderdown-stuffed pillow. It
makes little impression and leaves you looking stupid.

Yesterday, Nicola Sturgeon tried an argument that might once have thudded home.

What would happen to the £300 million which Scotland gets from central
government to help to fund council taxes? If the tax were to be scrapped, as the
Executive is considering, would we lose the subsidy? Or was London planning to
rob Scotland of its money?

The argument sounded better from the lips of Ms Sturgeon than it looks on paper
now. After all, as Mr McConnell said, if Scotland won independence they would
lose the money anyway. A discussion on hypothetical spending ended as a piece of
windy rhetoric.

"For London to pocket the cash would be highway robbery," Ms Sturgeon retorted.

Time was when this line of attack came hard-edged and full of threat. A
newly-established parliament felt vulnerable to the charge that London pulled
the financial strings. Today the argument is brushed aside. The independence
pitch no longer commands much attention.

So, when Ms Sturgeon repeated: "When will the First Minister start standing up
for Scotland and standing up to London?" Mr McConnell replied: "When will the
SNP stop blaming London and England for everything, and start taking some
responsibility here in Scotland for our own affairs?" It is becoming a question
that even the SNP are having to think about.

As for David McLetchie, the Tory leader, his brand of thinly-veiled sarcasm,
which once had real bite, is beginning to sound a little tired. He was
complaining about the glossy pamphlets which thud on to the desks of primary
schools -3,500 pages of "advice, exhortation and instruction," much of it from
the Executive, last year alone. Teachers, he said, need "less central
interference and more trust and support."

A fair point but it was so easily dealt with that Mr McConnell indulged in a
joke which a less confident performer would have avoided. He said that the
matter had been addressed by the Education Minister last November. "You may have
been on holiday at the time or something like that," he said.

Now, barely a week ago the First Minister was mired in controversy over his
holiday in Majorca with Kirsty Wark. To raise the matter again seemed foolhardy.

Yet here he was, strolling back to the scene of the crime, so cocksure and
insolent that Mr McLetchie seemed suddenly deflated.

"Well, I don't go on as many holidays as the First Minister does," was all he
could think of to say. Mr McConnell replied with a lecture on choice and
personal freedom in schools, which was about as much fun for the Tories to
listen to as a party political broadcast by the UK Independence Party.

"Answer the question," boomed the Tory Phil Gallie.

There was not a chance, and he knew it.


LOAD-DATE: January 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 20, 2005

Comment & Analysis: A defence against glossy rightwing demagoguery: We must
promote parliament above these braying televisual simplicities

BYLINE: Jackie Ashley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 1139 words


In the Midlands, at some point today, there is a good chance that Britain's
latest political party will be born. Robert Kilroy-Silk, so recently elected to
the European parliament for the UK Independence party (Ukip), has decided to set
up his own party, probably to be called Veritas. He has talked in recent days of
being inundated with calls for "something that is fresh and new". It is a
reasonable bet that Kilroy-Silk's idea of fresh and new will not correspond
closely to this newspaper's world view.

Meanwhile, equally fresh and new, ITV's Vote for Me! show, meant to kick-start
interest in politics among disillusioned couch potatoes, came up with Rodney
Hylton-Potts as its victorious potential parliamentary candidate. He called his
pitch the "cabbie's manifesto" - the mandatory castration of paedophiles, a
massive prison-building programme and an immigrant deportation scheme to reduce
the population by 20 million.

So, your starter for 10: what do these men have in common? Double-barrelled
names? Yes. Rather. . . robust views on the right of politics? Correct. Though
Hylton-Potts intends to stand as an independent in the coming election, he may
give Kilroy-Silk, who has strong views on immigrants, a call. But there is one
obvious further connection. Both men rose to some kind of prominence entirely
through the power of television.

Kilroy-Silk was a relatively successful Labour MP on the right of the party
until he quit to reinvent himself as a chat show host. His gleaming teeth,
alarming tan and lean good looks helped make him a populist star, as he prowled
his audience, provoking rows and saying the unsayable. In truth, he was the
nearest thing Britain had to Jerry Springer. Had Kilroy kept the day job, they
might have ended up making an opera. In this case, the BBC took his show off the
air after a vitriolic newspaper column he'd written about Arabs.

Far from denying Kilroy-Silk further publicity for his views, the BBC
unwittingly encouraged it, for his transition from media ranter to politician
was then swift and dramatic. Until he arrived, the UK Independence party was
represented by a collection of dandruff-decorated, rumpled old men in dark suits
who seemed to have been drawn from a provincial solicitors' office in the 1950s.
He brought them charisma. He very nearly brought them sex appeal. He certainly
brought them publicity. Not surprisingly, he thought he ought to be leader. But
the old buffers turned him down, which must have felt like Leonardo Di Caprio
pleading for the favours of a raddled, obese septuagenarian and being told, "Eff
off, you ugly little plug."

Hylton-Potts does not have Kilroy-Silk's charisma. Perhaps, had the ITV show not
featured Kelvin MacKenzie, ex-editor of the Sun, as one of the judges,
Hylton-Potts would not have won. But the other key element in this is that he is
very rightwing, and indeed credited his victory to his anti-immigration views:
"People didn't vote for me, they voted for that policy."

There are different ways of looking at this. You could say that, with the
Conservatives looking dead in the water, trying to sound moderate, and after two
successive Labour terms, there is inevitably going to be an angry splinter on
the right, and that television has merely helped to give it a voice -
unwittingly in the case of the BBC, wittingly over at ITV. In a television
culture, you could argue, this may be regrettable but it is inevitable and even
perhaps a useful populist steam vent.

You could also say that rightwing views and charismatic, shallow, image-based
politics have gone together since Mussolini got his marching boots polished, and
that all we are seeing today is a less alarming version of the self-admiring
macho demagoguery this country experienced when Mosley left the Labour party.

But while that is true, it is also too complacent. The essence of representative
parliamentary politics is that it is not dependent on charismatic, strutting
leadership, or blaringly simplistic views. Television is simple almost by
definition, and does feed off charisma. For a long time there was muted liberal
tut-tutting about the raw populism of the Kilroy television show, but it was
dismissed as politically irrelevant daytime entertainment. Similarly, the
extreme and sometimes vicious exchanges that dominate late-night radio phone-ins
are largely ignored by the political classes. Conversations are taking place
that Westminster simply ignores. Yet, as the shock-jock revolution in the US
showed, views that harden and find their rhetoric on the edges can quite quickly
drive into the mainstream.

On websites, supporters of Kilroy-Silk discuss with fascination the rise to
power of that ultimate creation of television politics, Silvio Berlusconi, and
the TV-driven charismatic leadership of the murdered anti-immigration Dutch
politician Pim Fortuyn. When mainstream parties are struggling to enthuse
voters, the possibility of media-fed outsiders suddenly emerging with populist,
simple solutions always needs to be taken seriously. There are warnings from
abroad.

In Britain, we have some important defences. So long as we retain a strong
public-service element in our broadcasting set-up, there can never be a British
Berlusconi. It would simply not be possible for the country's most powerful
media mogul to lead the country. And in the short term, splits and feuds on the
right of politics are likely only to help mainstream parties. If Kilroy-Silk is
bringing cheer to anyone right now, having divided Ukip, it ought to be the
beleaguered Michael Howard.

There will always be hard-line rightwing views and politicians to express them.
What matters is promoting and defending the parliamentary system, with its
complexity and its compromises, against the "yawn-yawn-aren't-they-all-boring"
brigade - the braying simplicities so easily expressed in broadcasting.
Successful politicians, as perhaps even Kilroy-Silk is beginning to understand,
are those who can finesse, absorb, hold together coalitions of allies and
difficult colleagues, and deal with complicated issues - in short, proper
grown-up parliamentarians.

We have a television culture but that doesn't mean we have to have televisual
simplicities in our politics. The real defence against glossy rightwing
demagoguery is better understanding of how our political system works. So three
things: first, more and better citizenship classes in schools; second,
mainstream politicians should abandon jargon such as "best practice" and
"marketisation", and start to speak in plain English; third, since political
communication is a two-way process, a lot of listening is needed. There is a
crisis of representation out there, which the TV celebrities will be only too
happy to exploit.

jackie.ashley@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              74 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 20, 2005, Thursday

IT'S KILROY VS HOON

SECTION: Scots Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 54 words

HIGHLIGHT: BID: Kilroy-Silk


FORMER chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk is set to stand against Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon at the next election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is expected to quit the right-wing UKIP party today and form his
own political movement called Veritas, the Latin for truth.

Mr Hoon, MP for Ashfield, Notts, has a majority of 13,268.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              75 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 20, 2005, Thursday

IT'S KILROY VS HOON

SECTION: 1 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 76 words


FORMER chat show host Robert Kilroy-Silk is set to stand against Defence
Secretary Geoff Hoon at the next election.

Mr Kilroy-Silk is expected to quit the right-wing UKIP party today and form his
own political movement called Veritas, the Latin for truth.

Mr Hoon, MP for Ashfield, Notts, has a majority of 13,268 - but helped lead
Britain into the Iraq war. A Westminster insider said: "There's a real
possibility Kilroy-Silk could win."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              76 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 20, 2005, Thursday

BRIAN READE: VERITABLY DELUSIONAL

BYLINE: BRIAN READE

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 102 words


ROBERT Kilroy-Silk could bear it no longer. Unable to turn the UKIP from the
Uniting to Kill Immigrants Party into the Ultra-cool Kilroy's Indahouse Party,
he's broken away to form his own party.

Called Veritas. Which is Latin for greasy, bigoted, perma-tanned egomaniac. Or
truth.

Clearly the loony sees himself as an old Roman emperor, out to redraw the map of
Europe in his own vision.

So expect him to spout a couple of Latin slogans in the run-up to the General
Election. What about: "Render unto Kilroy what is Kilroy's."

Or veni, vidi, veni... "I came, I saw myself, I came again."

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              77 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 19, 2005

Hoon could fall victim to Kilroy poll challenge

BYLINE: JAMES CHAPMAN

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 34

LENGTH: 333 words


DEFENCE Secretary Geoff Hoon could lose his Commons seat to Robert Kilroy-Silk.

The former chat show host will tomorrow quit the anti-EU UK Independence Party
and begin moves to create his own political party, expected to be called
Veritas.

The party plans to field candidates in dozens of seats at the election. Mr
Kilroy-Silk, a onetime Labour MP, will stand in a Midlands constituency and is
focusing on Mr Hoon's seat in Ashfield, Nottinghamshire.

He believes he has a good chance of overturning Labour's 13,268 majority.

His campaign is expected to focus on Mr Hoon's role in the Iraq war.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who was elected MEP for the East Midlands last year after
joining UKIP, fell out with the party's senior figures after refusing to abandon
a public bid to oust leader Roger Knapman.

He resigned the party whip in October but has remained a member.

Last night he confirmed he intended to leave UKIP altogether.

'UKIP is regarded by all those outside it as a joke, and it is a joke,' he said.
'We have no policies, we have no spokesmen. I feel ashamed to belong to it.

'There's no way I could ask people in all conscience to vote for UKIP because it
would be defrauding them.

'The party is an empty vessel, it's going nowhere and I will be leaving for that
reason. I'm embarrassed by the people they are associated with.' A statement
from UKIP's leadershipaccused Mr Kilroy-Silk of 'taking part in exactly the sort
of political posturing which he claims publicly to abhor'.

The turmoil in UKIP has delighted the Conservatives, who fear the party could
cost them marginal constituencies at the General Election.

The fledgling party scored its greatest success in June, winning 12 European
Parliament seats and taking 16 per cent of the vote.

Last January Mr Kilroy-Silk, 62, agreed to leave the BBC, which screened his
Kilroy show, after he described Arabs as 'suicide bombers, limb amputators and
women repressors' in a newspaper column.

LOAD-DATE: January 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              78 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                          January 19, 2005, Wednesday

Joan Collins back with the Tories

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 23

LENGTH: 151 words

Good news for the Conservative Party: it seems that Joan Collins is back on
board after her brief dalliance with the UK Independence Party.

Last May, you will recall, she was paraded by Robert Kilroy-Silk as the anti-EU
party's newest (and glossiest) patron, just before the European election.

However, by October, Collins conceded she "might vote Tory" in the next general
election.

Significant, then, that she offered herself up as an auction prize at the
Conservative Party fund-raiser held on Monday night at Frankie's, the
Knightsbridge restaurant owned by Marco Pierre White and Frankie Dettori.

The lot - dinner for eight with Collins at Drones Club in Mayfair - fetched
pounds 8,000 for Tory coffers.

"I asked Joan if she'd be willing to host a dinner and I was delighted that she
agreed to do so," explains MPW.

"She has always supported me and, once again, she didn't let me down."

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              79 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          January 19, 2005, Wednesday

Party games

SECTION: Home news; 21

LENGTH: 44 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk is leaving the UK Independence Party, which he had wanted to
lead but which he now decries as "a joke", to form his own party. He plans to
target the Ashfield, Nottinghamshire seat of Geoff Hoon, the Defence Secretary,
at the election.


LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 18, 2005

Kilroy 'starting rival party to UKIP'

BYLINE: GRAEME WILSON

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 241 words


ROBERT Kilroy- Silk was urged to quit the UK Independence Party last night
following reports that he is about to set up a rival party.

UKIP's leadership accused the former daytime television presenter of 'political
posturing' and demanded he stand down immediately as an MEP.

The rift came as it emerged that Mr Kilroy-Silk may be about to launch a party
called Veritas the Latin word for 'truth' after failing in his attempt to secure
the UKIP leadership.

He told the BBC yesterday: 'I have been inundated for a long time from people
within UKIP and outside saying that we need a new party.

' There is clearly a huge demand across the country for something that is fresh
and new and which will represent Britain's interests.' A statement from the UKIP
leadership said: 'We hope that Mr Kilroy-Silk will do the decent thing and
resign.' And party chairman Petrina Holdsworth said it was clear he was
'throwing mud' at his party when she was interviewed by BBC Radio Four's The
World at One programme.

Insiders have insisted a rival party would attract only a ' smattering' of
members and that the UKIP was 'bigger than one man'.

The row follows Mr Kilroy-Silk's demands that the party should axe leader Roger
Knapman and let him take his place.

The former Labour MP was yesterday backed by UKIP's London Assembly member,
Damian Hockney, who warned that the party faced the 'deepest split in its
history'.

LOAD-DATE: January 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: PARTY ROW: KILROY-SILK

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              81 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 18, 2005

Comment & Analysis: Why Harry's disoriented about empire: The chronic pain of
loss feeds our melancholic attachment

BYLINE: Paul Gilroy

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 20

LENGTH: 822 words


Prince Harry's indiscretions have been seen in the context of the Auschwitz
anniversary and the failure of his elite education. His youth, his ignorance,
poor parenting and a hatred of political correctness have all been offered in
mitigation.

These explanations are insufficient. To leave interpretation of his conduct on
that level would be to miss an opportunity to understand something fundamental
about the cultural life of a post-colonial country that has never dealt with the
consequences of its loss of empire.

Harry's behaviour, rather than just being part of the sub-culture of a group of
toffs, raises mainstream themes. The telling mix of Nazis and colonial fantasy
provides an insight into the core of the two-world-wars-and-one-world-cup
mentality. That nihilistic outlook dictates that conflicts against Hitler and
Hitlerism remain imaginatively close while Britain's many wars of decolonisation
- particularly in Africa, Malaya, Cyprus and Aden - are to be actively
forgotten.

Standing firm against Nazis comforts Brits by making them feel righteous and
perennially innocent. Being forced to reckon with the ongoing consequences of
imperial crimes makes them uncomfortable in equal measure.

This odd pattern has a psychological aspect. Its neurotic repetitions reveal an
insidious blockage in British culture, something that helps in turn to explain
the political resonance of Ukip and the BNP as well as to illuminate the
xenophobia and violence that can co-exist with great compassion as long as its
dusky beneficiaries remain sufficiently distant.

As the generation of 39-45 combatants dies out, we drift towards becoming an
anxious nation that can't get away from the Nazis it pluckily vanquished, or
past the loss of its imperial pre-eminence.

The vanished empire is essentially unmourned. The meaning of its loss remains
pending. The chronic, nagging pain of its absence feeds a melancholic
attachment. This is both to nazism - the unchanging evil we need to always see
ourselves as good - and to a resolutely air-brushed version of colonial history
in which gunboat diplomacy was moral uplift, civilising missions were completed,
the trains ran on time and the natives appreciated the value of stability.

These dream worlds are revisited compulsively. They saturate the cultural
landscape of contemporary Britain. The distinctive mix of revisionist history
and moral superiority offers pleasures and distractions that defer a reckoning
with contemporary multiculture and postpone the inevitable issue of imperial
reparation.

Some old imperial follies are being replayed in Mesopotamia. The substantive
lessons of the colonial period are spurned. The history of empire is trivialised
so that it becomes congruent with the playful mood of the fancy-dress party that
imperial rule always was.

Notwithstanding New Labour's sanctimonious words about the plight of Africa,
this melancholia is a new and very British disease. Here, too, a contrast with
Germany becomes instructive.

Scholars and activists from throughout the world gathered in Berlin recently to
consider the centenary of the mass killing of the Herero people in south-west
Africa, then under German colonial rule. Descendants of Lothar von Trotha, the
architect of that genocidal scheme, joined the conversation, not to divert it
into arid guilt, but to help in making a measure of shame productive.
Understanding that episode was connected to using its history to build a more
hospitable and more just Europe that would not be hostile in the face of aliens
and strangers.

Caroline Elkins's recent book Imperial Reckoning: The Untold Story of Britain's
Gulag in Kenya supplies a devastating indictment of the brutality and duplicity
of British colonial rule in that country. She demonstrates the profound force of
racism in shaping the operations of imperial government during the "emergency".
She then confronts the disturbing and complicated intersections and overlaps
between the results of exported British democracy and the cruel practice of
anti-democratic regimes animated by race-lore, ultranationalism and
civilisationist cant.

In the light of these post-colonial developments, Britain is being challenged to
accept a historical story that can accommodate both nazism and colonialism, that
can explore their complex connections and use a sophisticated grasp of race and
empire to explain them to disoriented young people like Prince Harry.

They will need to understand Britain's colonial history in order to strengthen
its contemporary multiculture. That is the best way to make "never again" the
cornerstone of a more just nation where our civilisation might even be judged
according to its ability to make reparation for those buried, disavowed and
mystified colonial crimes.

Paul Gilroy is chair of the department of African American studies at Yale
University

paul.gilroy@yale.edu


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 106 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                           January 18, 2005, Tuesday

KILROY IN VOTE BID

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 94 words


A SUPPORTER of Robert Kilroy-Silk yesterday challenged the UK Independence Party
to call a leadership election.

The ex-chat show host has been seeking to topple leader Roger Knapman.

UKIP London Assembly member Damian Hockney said without an election, a split was
inevitable.

He said one-third of activists could then defect, adding: "I want to remain in
UKIP, preferably with Robert at its head."

Mr Kilroy-Silk, an MEP who has resigned the party's whip, would not comment
yesterday on reports he plans to set up his own Eurosceptic party.

LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              83 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 18, 2005, Tuesday

Voting on Europe

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 84 words


From Mr John Coutts

Sir, "In this country", writes Mr George Curtis (letter, January 10), "we have
been ruled by consent through parliamentary election since 1688." Which country
does he have in mind? In 1688 Scotland was heading for civil war and Ireland was
soon to suffer under the Penal Laws.

The so-called United Kingdom Independence Party looks like the "English National
Party" in disguise.

Yours sincerely, JOHN COUTTS, 138 Ladysneuk Road, Stirling FK9 5NR.

January 10.


LOAD-DATE: January 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              84 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 17, 2005, Monday

Kilroy-Silk ready to quit Ukip and set up his own rival party

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News Pg. 01

LENGTH: 472 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk is preparing to quit the UK Independence Party and launch his
own political movement, The Daily Telegraph has learned.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, who joined Ukip only last spring, plans to form a party called
Veritas (Latin for truth).

Veritas will seek to take advantage of what he believes is growing public
disillusionment with the main parties. It will campaign for Britain to withdraw
from the European Union. But in an attempt to appeal beyond the usual Ukip vote,
it will include law and order, asylum and tax in its manifesto.

The Kilroy-Silk camp is confident of winning enough support to make a major
impact at the general election expected in May. However, it is believed to have
no major financial backers so far.

Last night Mr Kilroy-Silk's supporters said that only the firm offer of a
leadership contest within Ukip would dissuade the former television presenter
and Labour MP from quitting.

Ukip immediately rejected an appeal from Damian Hockney, the leader of the
party's Greater London Assembly group, to stage such a contest and a party
spokesman laughed off Mr Kilroy-Silk's plans.

"Everybody recognises that the leadership issue is settled," he said. "We are a
party that stands for something, not a party that stands for someone." Almost
from the moment Mr Kilroy-Silk joined Ukip just before last June's European
Parliament elections, he has waged a campaign to wrest control from the
chairman, Roger Knapman, a former Tory MP.

To the fury of the leadership, he said that Ukip was missing a vital opportunity
to capitalise on its breakthrough in the June elections when it won 16 per cent
of the vote and pushed the Liberal Democrats into fourth place.

He has also lambasted the party for failing to develop a wider set of policies
to appeal to a broad section of the disenchanted public.

It appears now that he has given up the idea of transforming Ukip.

In the East Midlands region where Mr Kilroy-Silk stood in the June elections,
Ukip won more than a quarter of the vote.

He has since quit the party's group of Euro-MPs. Mr Kilroy-Silk's aim of
creating a new party could bring much-needed cheer for the Conservatives if it
splits the Ukip-minded, Eurosceptic vote in some vital constituencies.

His supporters predict that it would be a huge blow for Ukip. A party member
said: "Ukip is haemorrhaging support to Robert. I would say that practically all
the members in the East Midlands [where Mr Kilroy-Silk is a Euro-MP] will go
with him."

Mr Kilroy-Silk was not available for comment last night.

But rumours of his plans have gathered pace within the past few days, with one
Ukip branch chairman openly referring to it on an internet forum last Friday.
Using a pseudonym, he wrote: "Robert Kilroy-Silk asked me to come over to his
new party and I have accepted his offer."

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              85 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            January 17, 2005, Monday

Orange alert

SECTION: Features; Leading Article Pg. 21

LENGTH: 192 words

Beware of the man using Latin to promote his cause, as Robert Kilroy-Silk has
just done by launching a party called Veritas.

People who are quick to take refuge in classical languages for everyday purposes
hope to give off all the right mood music about their erudition and sensitivity.
Instead, they just come out as the sort of great, whacking bigheads who like to
show off about their erudition and sensitivity.

It's absolutely no surprise, then, that Mr Kilroy-Silk, the bighead to end all
bigheads, the man who had barely joined UKIP before he was trying to take it
over, has decided to give his party a Latin name.

There are, though, a few Latin words that would have better caught the essence
of Kilroy-Silk, the man. The most closely related to his own choice would have
been vanitas. There was no Latin word for the colour orange; they preferred
purple to signify overweening imperial ambition. But the ancient French city of
Orange was called Arausio; that would work as a nod to Mr Kilroy-Silk's high
melanin quotient.

Or, if you really wanted to get across the genuine Kilroy-Silk message, you
could do worse than "Ego, ego, ego".

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              86 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 17, 2005, Monday

Kilroy-Silk to quit UKIP and set up a rival party

BYLINE: Sophie Kirkham

SECTION: Home news; 9

LENGTH: 181 words


ROBERT KILROY-SILK, the former television presenter, is preparing to leave the
UK Independence Party to set up his own political movement (Sophie Kirkham
writes).

The new party called Veritas, from the Latin for truth, could be launched today.

Mr Kilroy-Silk hopes that it will attract what he sees as a growing numbers of
disillusioned voters.

Since joining UKIP last spring, Mr Kilroy-Silk, a former Labour MP, has mounted
a sustained challenge to the party's leadership. In recent weeks he has told
supporters that unless he is given the chance to challenge the control of Roger
Knapman, the chairman, he will set up on his own party.

A senior UKIP source said that there would be no leadership contest until next
year and that Mr Kilroy-Silk had left himself little choice but to go it alone.

"He didn't really have anywhere else to go, and there will be a lot of voters in
the West Midlands who had voted for UKIP and will be left being represented by
this publicity vehicle," the source said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk was unavailable for comment last night.


LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              87 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                January 16, 2005

Canaries fly in face of Clarke

SECTION: FB; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 457 words


SOCCER-MAD Home Secretary Charles Clarke had better have his hands over his jug
ears at the next home match of his beloved Norwich City.

He always groans at the Canaries' fans favourite chant, 'We shoot burglars', in
honour of jailed have-ago Norfolk farmer Tony Martin.

Clarke's retreat over more powers for householders to take on burglars has
enraged them. Sing up lads.

WHEN racing commentator John McCririck is ejected from Celebrity Big Brother,
his best pal, fellow gingerwhiskered racing nut Robin Cook, will be among the
first he calls. Cook is well placed to sympathise. When he stormed out of the
Cabinet, no one missed him either.

BLAIR Babes want more nightlife and cheaper holidays for themselves.

Scots MP Rachel Squire told an inquiry that Commons debates in September must be
axed. 'They force us to take our main holiday in the most crowded, expensive
time of the year,' she whinged. Fellow Labour MP Phyllis Starkey said MPs should
clock off at 7pm so they can 'go to the cinema and theatre'.

Voters can give them a permanent holiday at the Election.

Gong that struck sour note with the Army

WHISKY-loving General Sir Mike Jackson's KCB (Knight Commander of the Order of
the Bath) gong from Tony Blair for ramming through Army cuts has irked brass
hats. They say it stands for Keep Cutting Battalions.

ANSWERING an email from the EU Commission's 'Les Queer Stagiaires' (staff) group
appealing to 'the gay, lesbian, bi-curious, transgender and hetero-flexible
among you', red-blooded UKIP Euro MP Gerard Batten said: 'You've left out an
important group, the try-sexuals, i.e. will try anything sexual. I'm not a
member but we should be as inclusive as possible.'

JCB chief digs them all

CANNY JCB digger boss Sir Anthony Bamford, who, as this newspaper revealed last
week, has given Pounds 1million to Michael Howard's election fund, has both
leaders at his feet. He and wife Lady Carol dined at Chequers on December 11 as
a thank-you from the Blairs for using their Barbados mansion.

WELSH Labour MP Chris Bryant was bemused to receive a text message from
kitten-heeled Tory Theresa May's office staff asking: 'Getting drunk again
tonight, you slag?' DOZY Labour Chief Whip Hilary Armstrong was on a sunbed on a
Maldives beach when the tsunami struck and snoozed on as the wave swept other
loungers 100 yards up the beach.

SHADOW Chancellor Oliver Letwin's aide Henry Macrory took gallons of bottled
water when he went to Sri Lanka for a long-planned New Year holiday.

Frustrated at being unable to find genuine tsunami victims, he announced: 'I'll
give it to the monastery to distribute.' Back came the reply: 'Don't be mad. The
monks are corrupt. They'll sell it.'

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              88 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                January 16, 2005

GAUNTLET LAID DOWN BY UKIP; LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 190 words


IF YOU spot Tony Blair, Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy quaking in their
boots any time soon, now you know why.

The UK Independence Party is threatening to leave a trail of destruction at the
next general election. Dick Morris, the former US presidential adviser who is
now Ukip's chief political strategist, has warned the other party leaders that
they should all be "running scared".

"Ukip is going to register decisively as the fourth party. Britain will become a
four-party state after the general election. I think we are going to do
extraordinarily well. We are going to run in every seat where we have a chance
of winning - and we have an excellent chance in 40 to 50 constituencies."

Morris insists that Ukip will not lose out as a single-issue party.

"You might as well say the American revolutionaries were a singleissue party, "
he explains.

"Ukip can demonstrate that the EU is the hub of the issue and all the other
issues are spokes coming out of that hub.

"If Ukip wins seats, that will change the face of British politics - by
preserving the face of British politics."

You've been warned.

LOAD-DATE: January 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              89 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                            January 16, 2005, Sunday

'I asked myself: do I want Michael Howard or Tony Blair to be Prime Minister?'
Robert Jackson, who will sit on the Labour benches tomorrow, had decided to 'go
quietly' after 45 years in the Tory Party. He tells Melissa Kite why it was
necessary to make public his concern at what he saw as its dangerous new
direction

BYLINE: BY MELISSA KITE

SECTION: News; Pg. 04

LENGTH: 2104 words

ROBERT JACKSON strikes an apologetic tone as he explains his decision to join
the Labour Party.

He wants his Tory friends to know that he is sorry for what he is about to tell
them. Even so, he cannot hide a slight edge of excitement.

"I invite them to put themselves in my position. If I was a private citizen I
would simply switch my vote.

"If you are an MP it is obviously a lot more difficult. We are part of a tribe,
a family and you have obligations and ties. But on the other hand you also have
a responsibility, a public responsibility. That has really led me to the
conclusion that I sort of owe it to people to make clear my dissatisfaction with
the Conservative Party and my satisfaction on the other hand with New Labour."

Speaking at his small apartment in the West End of London, Mr Jackson said that
he made the decision to join Labour while on holiday in South Africa with his
wife, Caroline, over Christmas.

He had already decided, three years ago, to stand down from Parliament, having
made no secret of his disillusion, but had vowed to "go quietly".

The idea of switching allegiance entered his head some months ago when a
colleague asked him during a "despairing" conversation about the future of the
party: "I wonder if any of our wives would vote Conservative if they were not
our wives."

Mr Jackson said: "That set me thinking. I'm not standing again. Would I want to
vote Conservative?"

During the Christmas break it slowly dawned on him that, released from the
constraints of tribal loyalty, he was about to vote Labour in the forthcoming
general election. He wondered whether he ought to come clean and tell the world.

He talked about it at length with his wife, a Tory MEP who, despite remaining in
the party, supports his decision.

Caroline Jackson said: "My husband's decision to leave the party is based mainly
on issues of domestic and Westminster politics and I sit at Strasbourg."

Mr Jackson added, smiling, that he and his wife were now the sort of
"broad-based coalition" he wishes the Tories could be.

He said, however: "I have had sleepless nights. It is an emotional pull. It is
heart and head business, but I think the head ought to rule."

His first concern as he explained his decision to The Sunday Telegraph was for
the party he leaves behind, particularly his constituency friends.

"I think people will be angry and they are entitled to be angry and upset
because I am breaking the customs of the tribe and I understand that and I
regret it and I am sorry to cause hurt. I do feel a wrench. I like my local
party, they have been very supportive and I feel I will be letting them down.

"But on the other hand politics is about people taking responsibility for the
direction of a country and I ask myself which party is going to be best for the
country."

Mr Jackson, a prize fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, strikes a donnish
figure in the softly lit sitting room, which is heaped with books on art and
mythology.

On Monday, he will take his seat on the Labour benches. He does not know where
he will sit. He says he has "lots" of friends in the Labour Party but will not
name them for fear of embarrassing them. He does not know yet who will want to
associate with him.

Labour MPs were hostile when Shaun Woodward defected in 1999 and was parachuted
into the safe Labour seat of St Helens South.

Mr Jackson said: "I have not asked for anything and I have not been promised
anything. I am not going to be seeking adoption as a Labour candidate. I really
am retiring from the Commons and this is about making a point.

"This is the logical consequence of asking myself how I am going to vote. The
bottom line was, do I want Tony Blair or Michael Howard to form the next
government and the answer was - I want Tony Blair."

"What happens if you find that the party you support is moving in the wrong
direction and the party you are opposing is moving in the right direction? What
happens if your tribe is no longer expressing what you believe?"

In a withering letter to his constituency chairman, Mr Jackson said the party
had "dangerous" views on Europe and an "incoherent" approach to public services.

He continued this theme in the interview. "The Conservative Party used to be a
broad based coalition but it is no longer that," Mr Jackson said. "It is much
narrower in its social range, in its aspirational range. That is the phenomenon
the Conservative Party has to face up to. Its share in the polls has not moved
since '92. That is a hell of a long time. The analogy is flatlining which is
drawn from being dead, having no heartbeat."

He believes that the Tories have moved "in an eerie way" to the Right. "The
public notice this and resent it."

Mr Jackson, 58, is known for criticising the leadership. But his views cannot be
entirely discounted. In the mid-80s he was seen as a rising star whose ascent to
the Cabinet was all but certain and whose intellectual stature would be rewarded
with a heavyweight department of state.

Born in Zimbabwe and educated there and at St Edmund Hall, Oxford, Mr Jackson
became a Tory MEP in 1979 and then a political adviser to William Whitelaw. He
was special adviser to Lord Soames as Governor of Rhodesia in 1980, an education
minister in 1987 and an employment minister in 1990. He has been MP for Wantage
since 1983 and is a member of the House of Commons Science and Technology
committee.

If he has a parting message to his party after 45 years it is this: "The
Conservative Party has got to look hard at the lessons of the New Labour project
and then have a strategy of building the widest possible coalition base and
finding the language to talk about it. The longer it fails to do this the longer
it will be out of office." For this election at least he believes "the die is
cast, it is too late".

Mr Jackson believes that the party is in the grip of "a sort of virus, a sort of
disease".

"The British people can read obsessions and fanaticisms and they don't like it.
They detect in the party's attitude to Europe hints and depths of obsession and
fanaticism and the party has to overcome that."

Here he paused and said he wanted to make something clear. "I am not doing this
because I want to bash the Tories," he said.

"But I also feel that what Blair is offering, what New Labour is offering is
actually really positive."

His disillusion has been long-burning. A supporter of Kenneth Clarke, he decided
to bow out when Iain Duncan Smith won the leadership in September 2001. "I
thought, this is not going to be pulled round in my biological lifespan." Ed
Vaizey, a senior aide and speech writer of Mr Howard's was chosen as the new
candidate for Wantage.

"But in the course of this Parliament I think the 'best when boldest' approach
that Blair has been pursuing has been impressive. The thing that got me going
was the university fees issue."

Mr Jackson was the sole Tory to side with Mr Blair in the battle over increasing
tuition fees in January 2004, which the Prime Minister won by a margin of only
five votes and which could have precipitated a crisis if he had lost.

He believes that the Tory approach, to promise to abolish fees and thereby deny
universities the ability to set their own prices, was "a huge mistake", at odds
with the most basic Conservative principles.

"I'm afraid fundamentally it was opportunism. They were offering something for
nothing."

He now has the same reservations about Oliver Letwin's plans to fund tax cuts by
slashing government waste. Although the Shadow Chancellor was fighting a
"gallant battle" to keep the plans reasonable , he believes that the party is
launching "inexorably" to the Right with this strategy.

"If you are going to cut taxes, which the Conservatives say they want to do,
there are only two ways you can go. You can either say we are going to cut taxes
and we are going to do less, or you can say we are going to cut out a whole lot
of waste. Cutting waste is what you say when you are not brave enough to say we
are going to do less.

"They talk about pounds 40billion of waste. I don't believe it. The waste thing
is a fig leaf which is used to avoid talking about the practical implications of
cutting taxes and spending."

But surely Mr Jackson was an education minister under Baroness Thatcher and
people will rightly ask why he could tolerate her views and yet condemn Mr
Howard for being too right-wing.

"Margaret Thatcher actually pursued a very radical agenda and I was very happy
with it. It was a broad-based one and she always found room for the One Nation
tradition. Whilst she wasn't prepared to go too far, she pursued a positive
European policy." Lady Thatcher, he believes, would have been "up for" tuition
fees this time.

He described Michael Howard as "an instinctive right-winger, instinctively and
powerfully anti-European and I think Conservatives should be concerned about
those commitments he has given to act unilaterally to repatriate fishing
rights."

The return of John Redwood to the shadow cabinet was "meant to send a signal to
potential UKIP voters and that is a serious thing. I think what [Howard] intends
if he becomes Prime Minister is to have a crisis with the rest of Europe and I
think it would be very damaging and we would find ourselves isolated."

He was also dismayed at Mr Howard's criticism of the Prime Minister after
initially supporting him over the invasion of Iraq. Mr Jackson claims that the
Tory Leader lost his footing when the Hutton report did not deliver the blow the
Tories had been hoping for.

"The fact is that Michael has wobbled on this. If he became Prime Minister not
only would he have a huge row with our European allies, he would also have a lot
of difficulty with the Americans."

Mr Jackson denied that he had had a personal row with Mr Howard. He had not,
however, told him of his decision before doing this interview and wastes no time
in saying what is wrong with him as leader.

"I think that Michael is privately a nice man. There is a disparity between the
private and the public image. Privately he is humorous and relaxed. Publicly he
only has two registers. One is scorn and the other is anger and that is too
limited a range." By painful contrast, when Mr Jackson talks about Tony Blair I
got the feeling he has to check his enthusiasm lest it overflow.

Asked to choose what he most admires about the Prime Minister, he hesitated
before saying: "Some people are just monotone. He has got a phenomenal register.
He can laugh, joke, make a witty point, he can be grave, serious, he can switch
between.

"This is part of his attraction to the public. They feel here is somebody who is
a human being."

He also admires his personal faith. "Unlike some people I am pleased to have a
Prime Minister who is a Christian."

On wider policy issues,

Mr Jackson said: "I do actually think that Tony Blair is doing a good job. He
has got the right approach on Europe. He has got the right approach on Iraq. And
on the domestic side he has shown the guts to push through a very controversial
policy on universities which was right and reflects a thoroughly considered
judgment.

"And then he is applying this to public services in general, in schools and
hospitals. I think this is broadly the approach I support and to which I want to
make a contribution."

Should Mr Jackson's praise not simply lead us to the conclusion that Mr Blair
has become, or has always been a Tory? "It is not that Tony Blair has turned the
Labour Party into the Tory Party. It is that he has been much more attentive to
middle-ground opinion and that is why he is an attractive leader."

Is there anything on which he disagrees with Labour? "I think the hunting ban is
quite wrong. It was deplorable that the Parliament Act was used."

He insisted that nothing was sought or promised by Labour. Downing Street
insiders said there had been informal talks with Andrew Adonis, the Prime
Minister's senior policy adviser on education, whom Mr Jackson met during the
tuition fees debacle, but that Mr Blair had not been involved.

Mr Jackson said he met Hilary Armstrong, the Labour chief whip, at her Whitehall
office last Tuesday "to ask if I could join the party".

He looks wistfully out of the window on to the hubbub of central London before
declaring: "I have said right from the start that I am a pretty minor cog in the
wheel of politics.

"I don't have a place in the history books. I might get a footnote in the
history of university funding. That is why I have concluded that rather than
going quietly I will say what I think."

He has certainly done that.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              90 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 15, 2005, Saturday

Michael Howard's marginal seat is safe from any of these poll idols

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Features; 23

LENGTH: 444 words


I WAS NOT looking forward to it. Not one little bit. It was inevitable, though,
once someone had noticed that more people had voted in Big Brother than in the
general election. Politics would be bound to be given the Pop Idol treatment.
Our representatives would be chosen not in an election but in a TV talent show.
It would elevate yet another self publicist, eccentric or crank to the status of
instant celebrity. I would then find myself having to report as this media
creation sought to repeat Martin Bell's feat of overturning the established
order by winning a seat in Parliament.

How wrong I was. ITV's Vote for Me was watchable but did not chase ratings; it
was funny without being absurd, and far from threatening the political order it
gave it a boost. Why? Because it demonstrated just how hard it is to make it in
politics. Late last night viewers were invited to pick one potential MP from a
somewhat unusual bunch: Rodney, a convicted fraudster with a double-barrelled
name who wants not just to end all immigration but to cut Britain's population
by a third; Eileen, who insists that her breast cancer was caused by mobile
phone masts and that the country could save not only people but also £2 billion
by felling them all; Julie, whose dream is the creation of a national school bus
scheme; and Irfan, a passionate young doctor who wants a kinder, gentler world,
but is more than a little hazy about how to bring it about.

Vote for Me made life tough by subjecting them to a mock Westminster news
conference. Under this cross-examination the candidates did not struggle -they
bombed. In a by-election not one would have survived more than a day. Before the
series began some Tories feared that the winner might challenge Michael Howard
in his marginal seat. I think he has weightier things to worry about. Vote for
Me did not find the hidden talent to transform British politics. That is not
because outsiders cannot break the hold of the big political parties. There is a
growing place for independents in our national politics, thanks to the spread of
proportional voting systems. The Scottish Socialists led by Tommy Sheridan and
Respect led by George Galloway have filled a gap on Labour's Left and the United
Kingdom Independence Party the gap on the Tories' right. But to win under
first-past-the-post you need a powerful cause and, ideally, celebrity too. Mr
Bell had both. The previously unknown doctor Richard Taylor proved that an
old-fashioned local revolt against a hospital closure can get you to
Westminster.

I cannot see any of the contestants in last night's talent show for budding
politicos succeeding.


LOAD-DATE: January 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              91 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 13, 2005

UKIP in EU protest scuffle

SECTION: ED_3RD_04; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 115 words


A GROUP of UK Independence Party MEPs claim they were assaulted by ushers during
a protest in the European Parliament.

They say their placards were removed and their rights violated ahead of a vote
on the new EU constitution.

They complained to parliament President Josep Borrell after he told them to put
their 'Death of Europe' signs away, or 'they will be put away for you'.

UKIP leader Roger Knapman said that last month Borrell had allowed a group of
MEPs to hold up signs which said 'yes' to Turkey's accession to the EU.

Parliament Vice- President Janusz Onyszkiewicz said the EU assembly was looking
into the matter. The treaty was endorsed in a 500-137 vote.

LOAD-DATE: January 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              92 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           January 13, 2005, Thursday

PANDORA

BYLINE: OLIVER MARRE

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 834 words


Tories copy Blair-Brown row with their own high-level spat

Michael Howard is always accusing Tony Blair of stealing his policies. Now
here's evidence that the Tories are taking a leaf out of Labour's book. For,
mirroring the unseemly squabble between the Prime Minister and his Chancellor, a
feud has developed between Howard, left, and the shadow Home Secretary, David
Davis, right.

Davis - whose designs on the Tory leadership are well documented - is said to be
"hopping mad" at a newly-published article in The Spectator, believed to have
been written with the co-operation of colleagues close to Howard. Condemning his
recent performance on the shadow front bench, the piece controversially suggests
that it might be a deliberate ploy to undermine his party leader. Its appearance
has prompted Davis to institute a witch-hunt at Tory Central Office.

"He's out to get the people responsible for this, and is blaming those around
Howard," says my mole. "Like Blair and Brown, their rival flunkies are causing
most of the trouble. There's now a lot of suspicion between the camps. Davis
believes he could have ensured David Blunkett's resignation sooner, if he hadn't
been held back by the leadership."

The row also has an Alan Milburn figure: Davis's camp is suggesting the
Spectator article is part of an attempt to promote the Tories' election supremo,
David Cameron, as Howard's preferred successor. But Davis isn't giving up.

"He sees this as an act of desperation," adds my source. "And firmly believes
he'll be leader by later this year."

Stone looks to fresh pastures

OLIVER STONE is joining the queue of Hollywood big-hitters who are - presumably
- queuing up at Los Angeles airport for flights to Europe.

First, Robert Redford announced that he wants to move to Ireland; then Dustin
Hoffman said he plans to live in London. Now, Stone, whose mother is French,
tells me he intends to spend more time in her native land. Partly motivated by
the bad reviews that greeted Alexander, the director says he feels he is
increasingly out of kilter with the US movie business.

"Since the Castro movie I did, things have been tough. Everyone was against it,"
he says, of his documentary on the Cuban president that was never shown by the
cable channel HBO, which bought it.

"Then I put my heart into Alexander, which wasn't appreciated either. The right
thing is for me to stay out of America for a while. I'm planning to spend a lot
more time in France."

Lisa B misfires

The new edition of Country Life magazine is published today - and the
time-honoured "Girl in Pearls" slot is filled by an unusually glamorous filly:
the transatlantic model, Lisa B.

But Lisa, left, who recently married property millionaire Anton Bilton, might
regret her decision to appear in the mag if she stops to consider its politics.
CL - unsurprisingly enough - is proudly in favour of hunting. She, on the other
hand, is rather fond of animals.

A couple of years ago, when modelling at the annual Game Conservancy Ball, she
fled the stage in hysterics when she realised that the charity was "pro". She
has also put her name to several animal rights campaigns.

"We didn't discuss the issue with her," explains a spokesman for the magazine.

Kilroy's party of truth

NEWS OF a political power to rival George Galloway's Respect for the smallest
share of the vote at the next election. Robert Kilroy-Silk - having resigned the
UKIP whip in the European Parliament - is preparing to launch his own party.

The former daytime television presenter has confirmed he will stand at the next
general election, and speculation is mounting over the name of his new party,
tipped to be unveiled as early as next week.

"The announcement is imminent," insists a well-placed source. "There was a
feeling that he might do it tomorrow, as that would overshadow UKIP's
candidates' weekend in Exeter, but it's now felt he may leave it until next
week."

So, what will be the name for Kilroy's brainchild? Among the rumoured contenders
is Veritas - the Latin, of course, for "truth". Surely a man as humble as Kilroy
would never dream of opting for something so pretentious?

All kettles were recently removed from MPs' offices because - apparently - they
posed a health and safety risk. Now they have been replaced by wall-mounted hot
water boilers. These, however, have been found perilous by some of the more
traditional MPs, and Anthony Steen, the Conservative member for Totnes, tabled a
question in the House asking for rubber gloves to be provided to protect his
hands.

"It is not considered practical to issue rubber gloves," replied Sir Archy
Kirkwood, the chairman of the Administration Committee. "But the option of new
cool-touch taps is being investigated."

Mr Steen's other plan - to buy himself a kettle - was also thwarted. "I can now
only have a kettle in my office if I go on a course and learn how to use it," he
said.

pandora@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              93 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 12, 2005

Godfrey Bloom MEP

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 113 words


WE are happy to point out that the Cambridge University Women's Rugby Club,
immediately following our story (16 October) about their tour to Brussels,
published this: 'The CUWRFC players would like to distance ourselves from the
claims of Rebecca Bowtell and believe Mr Bloom behaved impeccably for the
duration of the trip. Our players felt it was a wonderful experience to learn
about the EU and visit Brussels and enjoyed the company of our sponsor, Mr
Bloom, at a private function in the evening. We would publicly like to thank Mr
Bloom and all other members of UKIP involved for their hospitality and
generosity in taking an interest in a minority women's sport.'

LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              94 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                January 12, 2005

Warning on pearl poachers

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 340 words


Warning on pearl poachers

PEARL poachers are putting Scotland's freshwater mussel beds in jeopardy,
experts warned yesterday. Scotland has half of the world's population of
freshwater mussels but there are only 61 known breeding sites left in the
country. Fishing for freshwater mussel pearls was outlawed seven years ago to
protect the species from imminent extinction. But Scottish Natural Heritage
licensing officer John Ralston said there is now clear evidence that thieves are
targeting the River Tay's freshwater mussel beds, with three separate incidents
in recent months. He said: 'We are getting more concerned about this as pearl
mussels are a national treasure.' He said freshwater mussels play an 'important
part' in salmon waters as they act as a natural filter that helps to clean the
water.

Godfrey Bloom

MEP WE are happy to point out that the Cambridge University Women's Rugby Club,
immediately following our story (16 October) about their tour to Brussels,
published this: 'The CUWRFC players would like to distance ourselves from the
claims of Rebecca Bowtell and believe Mr Bloom behaved impeccably for the
duration of the trip. Our players felt it was a wonderful experience to learn
about the EU and visit Brussels and enjoyed the company of our sponsor, Mr
Bloom, at a private function in the evening. We would publicly like to thank Mr
Bloom and all other members of UKIP involved for their hospitality and
generosity in taking an interest in a minority women's sport.'

Driver robbed

AN elderly motorist was robbed yesterday as she stopped at a busy roundabout.

The thief opened the door of the 69-year- old's car at the Haudagain roundabout
in Aberdeen, and snatched her handbag which contained a three-figure sum of
money.

Women like it hot

WOMEN prefer to keep the house hotter than men, a study found yesterday. The
survey by energy website uSwitch.com found 36 per cent of men said their
partners preferred the house warmer than they did 18 per cent liking it a lot
warmer.

LOAD-DATE: January 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              95 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 12, 2005

EXTRA POUNDS 2K FOR MEPS PUSHING EU TREATY

BYLINE: Michael Lea, European correspondent

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 152 words


Pro-European MEP Richard Corbett has been handed an extra Pounds 2,200 of
taxpayers' cash - to trumpet the EU Constitution.

It comes on top of his Pounds 57,485 salary and a handsome perks and allowances
package of Pounds 160,000 a year.

And it is separate from the Pounds 2,536 fund for "anywhere in the world on
Parliamentry business".

Four other pro-Euro MEPs are also to get the award - costing a total Pounds
11,000. The payments are disclosed in an official Euro Parliament document seen
by The Sun.

The money is to cover expenses for trips promoting the constitution.

Anti-Euro campaigners were furious last night.

UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom raged: "why is one MEP paid more than another because he
is toeing the party line? This is what business people call a slush fund."

Danish MEP Jens-Peter Bonde asked: "Why doesn't the No side get the same money
to promote their view?"


LOAD-DATE: January 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              96 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                          January 12, 2005, Wednesday

Do television journalists get in the way of rigorous political debate, as
Alastair Campbell has suggested?

SECTION: Features; 61

LENGTH: 941 words


The media and the message

I would not ordinarily agree with Alastair Campbell ("A TV leaders debate? Not
while Marr and Paxman insist on stealing the show", Comment, January 4), but on
the issue of the media's approach to political debate, I do. The television
media's obsession with balance often seems to impinge upon a debate just when it
is getting interesting. How often, for instance, have we heard David Dimbleby on
Question Time lecture his guests on "sticking to the question" when they start
to expand on the issues involved?

The desire of broadcasters to have one politician saying one thing and another
saying the exact opposite in order to produce a spurious notion of balance leads
to sterile political discourse.

Oh what joy it was in June last year to see broadcasters suddenly realising that
so many people see the issue of Europe not in terms of division within the two
main parties, but as a question of whether it is in the national interest to be
in or out of the EU. After the UKIP's success, and for the first time since
1975, the value of EU membership was once more on the agenda.

If there are to be TV debates, the role of the smaller parties will have to be
respected.

Joss Owtram, London SE20 Translation service

What struck me in Alastair Campbell's article is the contradiction that the
media is to blame for the poor quality of political debate on TV. The reason
that we rely on the insight of journalists such as Andrew Marr is that they are
able to see through the fog of political briefings pioneered by spin doctors
like Mr Campbell.

If politicians and their advisers answered the questions put to them clearly and
concisely, then the focus would go back to the issues involved and we would not
need a translation from BBC journalists.

It is laughable, too, that Alastair Campbell argues that "the problem with the
broadcasters was that they were incapable of discussing and negotiating the
detail (of a TV debate) without it all being made public". I can't imagine where
he got that idea.

Neil Pendle, neil@waterscan.com

Loss of trust

Your columnist seems to be suggesting, after years of benefiting from his
manipulation of the media's reporting to suit his and Mr Blair's interests, that
we, "the ordinary voters", should ignore what the media says now that it has
turned hostile to the message he and Mr Blair would like it to report. How
convenient.

Perhaps the disillusionment and weary apathy of the ordinary voter might just
have something to do with the way that new Labour politicians are no longer
perceived as telling the truth or being properly accountable to anything except
their own self-interest.

Alistair Caldicott, alistaircaldicott@hotmail.com

Another planet

Alastair Campbell has donned his most effective blinkers. For him to claim that
politicians are fitted in to suit media comment and/or criticism of the
Government or political process is hypocrisy writ large.

Perhaps he should be questioning much more closely just how it was that a spin
doctor (with no democratically appointed brief whatsoever) could storm into a TV
news studio and verbally assault a senior reporter? Or, indeed, just how it is
that his own former party political boss steadfastly refuses to appear for
public scrutiny and questioning on a nationally broadcast public interest
programme such as Question Time?

Inevitably, the obvious answers to such conundrums are far less than obvious to
those who frequent the upper echelons of politics, divorced as they are from the
humdrum realities back on planet earth.

J. H. White, Loughborough

Head-to-head

It is hard to know whether to laugh or cry after reading Alastair Campbell's
article. I watch Prime Minister's Questions often and have yet to see Tony Blair
engage in any debate. He either ignores the question completely or answers an
entirely different and much easier one that he has posed himself. The Speaker
has been forced to intervene on many occasions to stop his more blatant attempts
to distort the opposition's policies.

It is not the asking of tough questions either by members of the public or
journalists, as Mr Campbell says, but that the answers are truthful and
complete.

The problem with any debate involving the PM is that he is very difficult to
argue with since he either changes his position, denies the truth or gives a
totally misleading answer. He has contaminated politics to such an extent that
all politicians are regarded as routinely mendacious.

To see two people simply swapping misleading statistics will achieve nothing. To
have ordinary members of the public given answers without knowing if they are
true or false will achieve even less.

A head-to-head television debate will work only if the broadcaster appoints
someone to act as a strong mediator. The mediator needs to have three things:
impartiality, the trust of the public and a wide knowledge of government.

Otherwise Blair will simply resort to his usual spin and distortion if he thinks
that it will serve his purpose.

The BBC is the only broadcaster that could do this and be seen as being remotely
fair.

Graham Rawlings, Selby, North Yorkshire

Off-putting

I was dismayed to see an article by Alastair Campbell in your comment columns
recently.

If there is one thing calculated to stop me buying your newspaper it will your
acceptance of him as an authority on anything other than bullying and
misinformation.

As far as I am concerned, this man is utterly discredited and you do your
newspaper no favours by employing him.

Tom Cunliffe, Guildford, Surrey


LOAD-DATE: January 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              97 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                January 10, 2005

Migrant workers: The precarious existence of the thousands in Britain's
underclass: In a ground-breaking investigation, Felicity Lawrence has spent a
year looking into Britain's spreading underworld economy. She has talked to
unions, advice agencies, investigators and the migrant workers themselves. Many
have no papers and are too frightened to talk. But those who do talk tell an
unsettling story of a casualised and unregulated Britain in 2005

BYLINE: Felicity Lawrence

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 3390 words


Soon after dawn, the old causeway road linking the Selsey peninsula to the
prosperous Sussex town of Chichester heaves with traffic. On one side heading
north is a queue of commuters, lone drivers in their empty people carriers,
waiting to get on to the ring road. On the other side hurrying south is a
succession of ageing minibuses, their cargo of smoking migrants crammed into
seats behind tinted windows.

Each morning the two worlds pass each other as they cross the roundabout where a
local campaigner's sign tries to hold back the tide: "Say no to the European
constitution, vote Ukip." They pass but never meet.

And so it is each morning around Britain. Over the last decade the economy here
as elsewhere has built its success on the use of casual migrant labour, much of
it subcontracted for maximum flexibility to labour agencies, or gangmasters as
they are known. This subcontracted migrant labour has provided a workforce that
can be turned on and off at a few hours' notice depending on the workload to
sectors that have seen strong growth - food production and processing,
construction, catering and hospitality, health care and contract cleaning -
enabling the organisations that use it to compete globally. Without migrants
many of the cheap goods and services we enjoy would not be affordable. The
companies using gangmasters and the gangmasters themselves say they take
strenuous efforts to ensure they comply with all employment and immigration
legislation. Yet the system is beset with allegations of exploitation and
illegality - and workers for these agencies paint a very different picture.

Over the last year the Guardian has investigated some of the networks of labour
agencies operating around Sussex, to throw a spotlight on the gangmaster system.
The findings highlight a historic pattern to the allegations of abuse which
suggests the problems may not be isolated but structural to a "flexible"
workforce.

This is a pattern replicated across the UK. The underworld of gangmastered
labour that was glimpsed when 23 cockle pickers died at Morecambe Bay is spread
like a web throughout the country.

One of the leading companies involved in food production in Sussex is Natures
Way Foods. It washes and packs over 14bn salad leaves a year for British
consumers. Set up in 1994 at the suggestion of Tesco to supply all its branches
with salad, it depends on migrant labour. It employs many of its local and
foreign workers direct but it and its sister companies have also used a
succession of agencies or gangmasters over the years. The Natures Way website
boasts of the "phenomenal growth" the company has achieved with backing from
Tesco: "Our first four years were so successful . . . our business doubled in
size every year . . . In December 1999 we were placed 29th in the Fast Track 100
of the country's fastest growing companies."

Between 1996 and 1998, Natures Way was the fastest growing food company in the
UK, a meteoric rise that mirrored the rapid growth in profits at its sponsoring
retailer. It is now also a major supplier of salad to McDonald's. It is owned by
the Langmeads, a large landowning family that have farmed in the Sussex area for
over a century. The two Langmead brothers, David and Robert, have turned their
farming business into an international operation that grows, imports and packs
food all year round through various related companies.

Like many companies that have contributed to the UK's economic success in the
last decade, Natures Way has invested in the latest technology and logistics to
respond to the new business model of "just-in-time" ordering developed by its
customers, the supermarkets and fast food chains. The technique, where nothing
is kept in stock, is used in many sectors and has helped drive prices down and
keep inflation low. It has also enabled British companies to compete in an age
of globalisation with other countries where labour rights are rudimentary.

As a supplier to the supermarkets Natures Way has to cope with huge and often
last-minute fluctuations in orders. This reduces the retailers' risk of under-
or over-supply to a minimum by transferring it down the line. To help it respond
to constantly changing demand, Natures Way, in addition to its substantial
directly employed workforce, has relied upon a flexible workforce, with migrants
prepared to work long and unpredictable hours and gangmasters able to move them
around the country at short notice.

It has also invested heavily in a system of audits and a personnel department to
oversee its employment practices. It says it "strives to achieve the highest
standards in staff recruitment and employment practices and would never
knowingly use illegal labour". Its current gangmasters similarly say that they
work closely with immigration, tax and other authorities to make sure that their
employment practices comply with the law.

But despite these safeguards, it did not take long in Selsey to meet migrant
workers doing shifts at Natures Way who admit working without proper papers
through gangmasters, and who also claim to be victims of some form of abuse.
Migrants working here with legitimate visas or EU rights also claim to be
victims of abusive employment at the hands of gangmasters.

Georgi was among a group of Bulgarian workers interviewed by the Guardian who
were being supplied to Natures Way by one of its principal gangmasters, Advance
Recruitment. They had arrived on business visas for the skilled self-employed
but were packing salad for Tesco. Skilled self-employed business visas were the
subject of a scandal earlier this year when a British diplomat blew the whistle
on scams in Bulgaria and Romania, which famously included a one-legged Romanian
obtaining a visa as a self-employed roofer.

Georgi said he had arranged work before arriving in the UK, having got a phone
number through a friend, although he was supposed to be self-employed. "Because
of my problems with a visa, Advance paid me very low wages, £200 for 72 hours,"
he said. That amounts to £2.77 an hour when the minimum wage at the time was
£4.50. Georgi said he had been working these long hours each week for over four
months on the salad production lines: "The worst is I am never sure that I'm
going to get paid. It happens to a lot of people." He also said he paid no tax
or insurance but had £48 weekly rent deducted from his wages for a bed in a
maisonette he shared in Selsey with six other men. He said he was afraid to talk
about his circumstances. He had handed over the equivalent of nearly £1,000 to a
Bulgarian agency in Sofia to fix his visa.

Advance Recruitment is registered as Advance Employment Services, and its
managing director in Sussex is a Russian ex-military officer called Anatoly
Bespaly. He said that he supplied the Natures Way operation in Selsey with an
average of 150 workers, drawn from 19 nationalities including Chinese, Russians,
Poles, Portuguese, Bulgarians, Iraqis and Afghans.

The Guardian has seen the wage slips of several Chinese workers from Advance
Recruitment showing false names and false national insurance numbers, for work
at Natures Way. Some workers were using photocopied work permits bought for £50.
They said they were frightened to make any complaint and alleged that Mr
Bespaly's organisation used harsh methods to keep workers in order.

Both Chinese workers and the Bulgarian said that they had heard of other workers
being beaten by Mr Bespaly's bodyguards when they complained about their wages
not being paid in full. "Anatoly made deductions from wages. Sometimes people
refused to take it. On one occasion, an Iraqi worker got very upset and started
to argue with Anatoly. Anatoly got four or five Russian men to beat him up," one
Chinese worker said.

Others described hearing of similar incidents with Brazilian and Afghan workers.
They had not been beaten themselves, but - whether their fears were justified or
not - they were still afraid that the same thing might happen to them, and said
Mr Bespaly's managers frequently used threatening language. A house of seven
Chinese workers said they were evicted without notice last year, told they could
no longer work and were forced to leave the area.

Mr Bespaly told us that he was upset by the workers' allegations and that he had
never knowingly employed illegal workers or not paid workers properly. He added
that 95% of his foreign workers' documents were checked with immigration. He
acknowledged that there had been violence when wages were paid out but strongly
denied that he or any of his managers were the perpetrators.

He said he had been forced to call the police on several occasions when workers
became violent and tried to extract money from him that they were not entitled
to. He also strongly denied being involved in any illegal employment practices
or abuse of workers.

Advance is one of a series of gangmasters that have supplied migrant workers to
Natures Way over the years, and similar allegations have been made about
previous suppliers of labour to the company.

One of Natures Ways main gangmasters until the end of September 2004 was MCA or
Monarch Catering Agency. MCA is a Portuguese-owned labour provider based in
London, supplying hundreds of migrant workers across the south of England, East
Anglia and other parts of the UK. They work in office cleaning, agricultural
work, catering, hotels, food packing and processing and in motorway service
stations around the country. Former em ployees of MCA and sources in enforcement
agencies allege that Brazilian workers, arriving in the UK on student visas
which restrict their working hours, or on tourist visas which do not permit them
to work, or with fake Portuguese documents, have worked illegally for MCA.
Immigration and police raids in Selsey on properties housing MCA workers last
year found Brazilians without legitimate papers who have since been deported.

A source has described MCA workers being taken to obtain fake papers from ID
fraudsters in London's Stockwell, Tottenham Court Road and Whitechapel. Sources
also allege there is a system in which a double payroll is operated, one front
payroll showing certain legitimate workers and a back payroll with true numbers
supplied.

Last autumn we witnessed an MCA manager in Sussex signing on a Chinese migrant
who presented himself with false papers carrying a photograph that was clearly
not his. No effort was made to check the man's papers. He was promised work at
Natures Way where he had previously worked through Advance.

Brazilian workers in accommodation provided by MCA in Sussex admitted this
summer that they did not have legitimate papers. Wilma, a Brazilian in her late
20s, who had arrived on a tourist visa, was one of them. She was just getting up
for the nightshift when we visited her on a caravan site in Selsey. She and her
housemates were reluctant to talk at first, saying it wasn't safe, but
eventually she confided: "I do 12-hour shifts for £4 per hour. There aren't any
overtime payments. It's OK but I'm very tired because I haven't had a day off
for over a week."

At the time she was packing salads at a factory owned by Robert Langmead called
Passion Cafe. She said she had been told by her MCA manager that she could get
an Italian visa soon which would make life easier.

MCA also provides large numbers of migrant workers to another Fast Track 100
food company, Oscar Mayer. Based in Chard, Somerset, Oscar Mayer is a main
supplier to Sainsbury's of many of its own label ready meals. Like other
successful companies that have seen rapid growth in the last decade, it has
depended on casual migrant labour to provide a cheap and flexible workforce to
supplement permanent staff.

Similar allegations of identity fraud have been made by workers for MCA in
Somerset. Carla, a Brazilian worker in Chard, said that she was supplied with a
fake Portuguese ID through an MCA manager. The manager offered her help getting
papers and gave her the contact number of a fixer in London. She visited him,
she said, and bought an extremely sophisticated fake Portuguese ID carrying her
real personal details for £80 in cash. She then returned to Somerset to work.
She was reluctant to talk about the identity fraud but said that several
Brazilian friends working with her had acquired documents in the same way.

Officials and advice agencies working with migrant populations employed by other
gangmasters around the country report a pattern of abuse involving alleged
people trafficking and/or ID fraud.

Violence and intimidation in the gangmaster system are also common complaints. A
citizens' advice bureau in Norfolk said it had to call in police when it was
trying to help a group of Portuguese workers because the gangmaster, who was not
related to MCA, had brought along his own "security people". CAB offices have
cata logued problems of migrant workers from Dorset, Bedfordshire,
Cambridgeshire, the Midlands, Norfolk, Suffolk, Bristol, Hampshire and Northern
Ireland. Alleged abuses they have recorded include the use of violence to
enforce conditions, threats of eviction, extortionate rents and dangerous
housing. CAB officers around Britain have also dealt with breaches of health and
safety regulations, wages below the legal minimum and tax deducted from workers'
pay but no record of it reaching the Inland Revenue. These allegations do not
relate to MCA or Advance.

But MCA workers also allege that they have been intimidated by MCA personnel and
that the company uses associates as "enforcers". Vitor Silva, a Portuguese
citizen, described being assaulted after complaining about his conditions while
working for MCA in Chard. He alleges that he was forcibly removed from a bar in
a hotel where MCA's owner Raul da Costa was entertaining an official from the
Portuguese consulate, and then punched by a man called Jorge while an MCA
manager held him by the throat. The police were called and have investigated but
no action was taken. It is understood that the other MCA workers claimed that Mr
Silva started the trouble.

MCA said that the management was aware that there was an incident at a party
involving three individuals who worked for the company, but what workers did
outside hours was a matter for them unless it impinged on MCA's reputation. It
said it did not encourage violence in any shape or form. MCA also categorically
denied any knowledge of workers acquiring false documents or providing any. It
said that although it was aware that some of its workers had been deported by
the immigration authorities, it did everything possible to check the documents
of workers and did not accept photocopies.

Back in Sussex, there is also repeated evidence of tax and VAT avoidance and
evasion among some of Natures Way's former gangmasters, as two examples among
others traced by the Guardian back to the mid-1990s show:

* Phone-a-Worker: a key supplier of foreign labour to the Langmeads in the early
days of the growth of Natures Way was the PAW group. Sources close to Natures
Way and in the enforcement agencies say that the PAW group brought in migrant
workers from southern Africa to supply the farms and packhouses, many of them
working illegally. One of PAW's directors, Roger Verner, then disappeared after
a customs and excise raid. The company closed down owing the authorities over
£1m in unpaid VAT and tax and insurance. Mr Verner - the name is thought to be
an alias - was director of a web of over 300 companies supplying labour and
transport around the country.

* Mr A: Around this time Natures Way was also supplied with labour by Mr A, an
English gangmaster with Lithuanian associates who cannot be named for legal
reasons. He was sent to prison in 2003 for VAT and tax fraud relating to the
supply of migrant workers.

There appears to be a pattern of MCA companies going bust owing huge amounts in
tax, insurance and VAT payments. One of the companies in MCA's extensive
network, MCA International Services, went bankrupt at the beginning of 2002
owing the authorities approximately £1m. In February last year another of its
trading companies, MCA Personnel Ltd, went into administration owing nearly £1m
in unpaid tax and insurance. The same day MCA Personnel Ltd went into
administration, it was sold to MCA Services Europe for a token fee. Following
the sale the name of MCA Personnel was changed to ACM Personnel in
administration. Still on the same day, MCA Services Europe changed its name to
MCA Personnel, completing an elaborate financial manoeuvre and allowing trading
to continue as normal but having relieved the main company of very substantial
debts to the Treasury. When we asked Mr da Costa to explain the purpose of these
changes, which are recorded at Companies House, he said that none of them was
illegal. This is true. Such changes would only be illegal if there was an intent
to defraud.

One of the main frustrations of senior officials in enforcement agencies is that
when they act against one gangmaster, personnel who work for them reappear
elsewhere and continue operations under new names. With chains of subcontracting
and often complex company structures involved, pinning down who is responsible
for any breaches in legislation has often proved difficult.

Natures Way declined to comment on the allegations relating to the PAW group, Mr
A or MCA. "If we identify frequent or major issues, we will cease to use the
agency involved," the company said. It said it was using a new agency called JD
Employment Services along with Advance. Workers for JD and MCA in Sussex talk
about the two companies as though they were interchangeable, with MCA playing
the parent role. An investigator has also alleged that a link between personnel
has been established. Both companies deny this and say they have no connection
whatsoever but are in fact rivals.

Similar allegations against JD of identity fraud and debts have been put to the
Guardian. Chinese workers living in a house in Bognor, West Sussex, told us they
were supplied by JD to Natures Way to pack for Tesco despite having only
photocopied fake papers.

JD is run by a Portuguese man called Fernando Dias. Mr Dias told us he had
worked closely with the immigration department to put a system in place to check
workers' status. The agency insists on seeing original documents, he told us,
and he has never knowingly employed illegal workers. Mr Dias owes nearly
£500,000 in unpaid VAT and tax and insurance payments built up while trading as
a labour agency. He has recently entered an individual voluntary arrangement
under the Insolvency Act.

Natures Way said it requires agencies to keep documentary evidence that they
meet high standards of legality, welfare, pay and accommodation. It conducts
unannounced audits and interviews agency employees to ensure that welfare
requirements are being met. The feedback from immigration authorities and Inland
Revenue had been very positive, it said.

Oscar Mayer said it had spent considerable time auditing MCA accommodation and
recruitment processes to ensure that it operated within a legal framework here
and in Portugal. The process covers random inspections of a wide range of
documents including payslips and immigration checks. It said it had been
satisfied to date.

Tesco said it was surprised by the allegations since a recent independent audit
of Natures Way had not highlighted any of the issues raised. "We take our
responsibilities in this area very seriously and while we don't pretend to get
things right every time we always act swiftly if any issues are identified," the
company said. It denied that supermarket ordering practices had led to poor
practice and said that it had worked to raise standards, including labour
standards, in the industry.

McDonald's said it too expected suppliers to comply with clear codes of practice
on labour and conducted independent audits on their performance but would
investigate the Guardian's findings.

Sainsbury's said it was very concerned to hear of the allegations and had
launched an immediate investigation. An independent audit of the suppliers
highlighted had already been arranged.

Names of workers have been changed to protect identities


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                January 10, 2005

EU FRAUD CHIEF FACES QUIZ

BYLINE: Michael Lea, European Correspondent

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 257 words


THE EU's new anti-fraud Commissioner lied to MEPs over his part in a Pounds
5.5million investment scam, it will be claimed today.

Siim Kallas, 56, was charged with fraud, abuse of power and providing false
information after Pounds 4.4million vanished while he was head of Estonia's
national bank.

He was cleared of any criminal wrongdoing after a three-year legal battle but an
inquiry by the country's Supreme Court found he had failed in his duties. His
role in the episode has already raised questions about his suitability as Neil
Kinnock's successor to steer through an anti-fraud drive.

Now he faces claims that he misled the European Parliament when quizzed by MEPs
before taking up his post. British MEP Nigel Farage told The Sun: "I do not
believe, having dug deeper, that what he said was entirely accurate."

Mr Farage claims to have uncovered evidence that Mr Kallas, pictured, was more
deeply involved than he let on.

The UKIP MEP has drawn up a list of questions to be outlined in a speech to the
parliament in Strasbourg today.

Mr Kallas was governor of the Central Bank of Estonia in the early 1990s when a
Pounds 5.5million oil investment deal with a bogus company collapsed.

As a result of the scam, involving a shady Swiss firm called Paradiso SAL,
Pounds 4.4million vanished. It has never been recovered.

A spokeswoman for Mr Kallas -the EU Commissioner for Administrative Affairs,
Audit and Anti-Fraud -insisted: "He definitely did not mislead, or intend to
mislead, the parliament."


LOAD-DATE: January 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              99 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 10, 2005, Monday

Rule of law in the European Union

SECTION: Features; 16

LENGTH: 389 words


From Mr George Curtis

Sir, The Conservative policies advanced by Bill Cash (Comment, January 5) seem
to me irrational -the political and intellectual equivalent of being half
pregnant.

The Conservatives need to compare the fundamentals of the UK against those of
the EU.

In this country we have been ruled by consent through parliamentary election
since 1688. Politicians do not appoint our judges, the surest route to show
trials.

Judges are tasked to uphold equity, or fairness of treatment, and to seek truth
in pursuit of justice. All stand equal before the law, including every
politician and state employee.

That same law stands equally between every one of us and the overwhelming power
of the State, which, from 1679 to 2003, could not touch anybody save through the
law.

An arresting authority had to produce the arrested before a magistrate in a
public place, within a matter of hours, and there, with argument from both
sides, justify that arrest or release the person. We live as free men under both
the rule and protection of the law, which upholds the rights and liberties of
the ordinary man against all comers, in particular the State, supported by a
free press, whose sources are protected by law.

The rule of law means that the Government in all its actions is bound by rules
fixed and announced beforehand. Thus the individual is free to pursue his
personal ends, certain that the powers of government will not be used
deliberately to frustrate his efforts. It is from this that the prosperity upon
which democracy rises, springs.

In the European Union we are to be ruled by a few thousand unelected,
unaccountable officials who largely appoint each other, cannot be sacked, and
habitually meet in secret. All EU politicians and officials have a lifetime
guarantee of immunity from prosecution in connection with their duties, and are
presided over by a Supreme Court endowed with the power to suspend the rule of
law, effectively at will. Thus, since the law cannot be known with fair
certainty in advance, the EU is technically a lawless state within Europe.

The Conservatives will never regain power until they join the UKIP in defence of
our country, laws and liberty.

Yours faithfully, GEORGE CURTIS, Dalebrook House, Dedham, Colchester, Essex CO7
6AB.

January 5.


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              100 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            January 9, 2005, Sunday

EU reform

SECTION: Features; News; 18

LENGTH: 107 words


The Tories have the air of resignation about them and are not even bothering to
"fight to win" the next election.

As a lifelong Conservative I will vote Ukip because unless Michael Howard
recognises that our (Britain's) biggest problem is the European Union, he will
be shunned by those of us who see beyond the "single market".

Our one hope is that pressure from true Conservatives will yet force Howard and
his shadow cabinet to fight the general election on reform of the EU.

That would bring back into the fold the 4m voters who left the Conservative
party over Maastricht.

Margaret Stringfellow Chetnole, Dorset


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Letter

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              101 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                            January 9, 2005, Sunday

Outrage at Europe's £260,000 MEP party

BYLINE: Nicola Smith Brussels

SECTION: Overseas news; News; 27

LENGTH: 248 words


THE European parliament has been condemned for spending £262,000 on a party to
toast the new European Union constitution in Strasbourg this week.

Conservative and UK Independence party MEPs have expressed "moral outrage" at
the cost. Confidential parliamentary documents reveal that £25,000 will be spent
on inviting two grands penseurs (thinkers) and 20 grandes plumes (columnists)
from states holding referendums on the constitution.

Those invited include Adela Cortina Orts, a Spanish philosopher, and Jeremy
Rifkin, the American author of The European Dream: How Europe's Vision of the
Future Is Quietly Eclipsing the American Dream.

A further £70,000 will be used to bring over 100 regional journalists "to ensure
maximum coverage". Participants will attend a £56,000 "round table event" and a
lavish lunch in the chambers of Josep Borrell, the Spanish president of the
parliament. Other expenditure, such as as £31,000 on internal decorations and
£56,000 on external ones, has amazed even EU officials used to generous
expenses. "There are other things going on in the world at the moment," said
one.

Chris Heaton-Harris, the Tory MEP, said he had written to Borrell urging him to
cancel the event out of respect for the Asian tsunami victims.

"MEPs will be drinking champagne and spending £262,000 while people are
struggling to find water purification tablets in the tsunami region," he said.
"We should be sending this money to southeast Asia."


LOAD-DATE: January 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              102 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 8, 2005, Saturday

Europe warning

SECTION: Home news; 30

LENGTH: 53 words


Tony Blair is leaving it too late to convince voters to back the European Union
constitution, Lord Haskins, a leading member of Labour in Europe, said. "Public
perceptions of Europe have been affected by the strong anti-European tone of
UKIP and the Conservatives," he told The World at One on BBC Radio 4.


LOAD-DATE: January 8, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            January 7, 2005, Friday

Stop making excuses, Tony Blair, and debate with your opponents, US style

BYLINE: Adam Boulton

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 980 words


Turnout at the last general election was a record low. Most politicians wring
their hands about voter apathy and stampede to endorse the latest get-out-the
vote stunt. Labour says that it wants to talk to the people rather than to media
pundits during the coming election campaign. Yet the Government is spurning TV
debates, the best chance for political leaders to make their case directly to
millions of voters.

Worse perhaps, new Labour has rejected the idea when there is the best
opportunity ever to make debates happen. Hitherto, as anyone involved in
political television knows, reluctant politicians have always escaped by playing
off the selfish interests of competing television channels. In The Times this
week, Alastair Campbell complained of (or gloated over?) the hours he had spent
going round in circles with the broadcasters. But such painful negotiations are
no longer necessary. The arrival of multi channel television means that, as in
America, debates can be staged as events available to, but not controlled, by
the television companies. Sky News, ITV News, BBC 24 News and CNN International
are all increasingly important purveyors of continuous news and information. The
terrestrial channels would surely not want to miss out on a television first
after all their talk about public service broadcasting.

During the last general election, The Times generously volunteered to fill the
role of a debates commission and arrange the events. There are other worthy
bodies such as the Hansard Society which could take on the organisational task.
But, ironically, the Government itself has created the body ideally suited to
the job: the Electoral Commission. As a former broadcaster Sam Younger, the
chairman of the commission, has precisely the expertise and authority needed to
deal firmly with both politicians and broadcasters.

If all the leaders would agree in principle to debate, the commission could
choose the format and the moderators. In America top news anchors, such as Jim
Lehrer and Bob Schieffer, took it as an honour to act as self-effacing TV
chairmen, seated with their backs to the audience. For all Mr Campbell's sneers,
there is no evidence that senior British journalists would behave differently.

My own recommendation is for a series of head-to-head debates: Blair-Howard,
Howard-Kennedy, Kennedy-Blair -broadcast early each Sunday evening during the
campaign. These would be proper compensation for Labour's unilateral decision to
cancel the leader's daily news conferences. Labour and Conservatives could make
a strong case for a second Blair-Howard clash on the final Sunday.

New Labour spokesmen have come up with various excuses for not debating. At the
briefing where he unveiled the new avoid-the-press strategy for the election,
Alan Milburn, Labour's campaign supremo, muttered vaguely about the smaller
parties - not a big concern for him at other times. No convincing legal
authority has ever ruled that debates could not take place if the three main
party leaders were willing to participate. And the leaders of the nationalist
parties, the UK Independence Party and others could expect to be more in demand
as pundits on air rather than less.

Tony Blair and Mr Campbell argue that election debates are unnecessary because
the leaders face each other frequently when Parliament is sitting. But, as Mr
Campbell might say, playing in the League has never stopped teams playing in the
cup. Many citizens may be bored and irritated by political argument most of the
time, but it seems an extraordinary act of self-denial for the politicians to
spare them at the very moment when they will willingly listen out of civic duty.

Another Downing Street spin-doctor told me that debates could never take place
because "we can't trust the newspapers to report them straight". This pays
extraordinary homage to the "It was The Sun wot won it" school of election
analysis. So much for trusting the people. It also goes against the evidence. In
the debates before the 1960 US presidential election, television viewers called
it for Kennedy when the pundits plumped for Nixon. In 2004, polls of both
pundits and people gave John Kerry victory in all three debates, but that did
not cost George Bush the White House.

Some in Labour argue against debates because the general election is not a
presidential contest: they would give too much prominence to the party leaders.

This is not the place to discuss Britain's drift towards executive government.

However such lately discovered virtue ill-becomes the only party to put a
portrait of its leader on its manifesto cover for two elections running. More
importantly, evidence from other countries suggests that leaders' debates
encourage community politics by inspiring thousands of local spin-off debates.

Mr Blair's refusal to debate is not new -he refused in 1997 -or unique.

Margaret Thatcher, and John Major in 1992, refused to cede the equal status of
debate rivalry to their opponents or to risk an upset. As Mr Major responded to
Neil Kinnock: "Nice try -why should I?"

But stuff happens: voter interest and trust in politicians is down and TV
debates work. In America, more than 51 million viewers watched the final
presidential debate last year, despite competition from two baseball play-offs.

There are only a few weeks left for the decision. Mr Campbell is right that
debates cannot be agreed in the heat of a campaign. Mr Blair would make
political history if he agreed to debate. Michael Howard and Charles Kennedy are
willing so it is in his gift. Debating would be creditable and consistent for
one who has opened himself up to scrutiny at regular news conferences and select
committee appearances. On that evidence he has little to fear. Just say "yes",
Prime Minister.

Adam Boulton is political editor of Sky News


LOAD-DATE: January 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 5, 2005, Wednesday

No stability, no growth, no pact. It is time to confront the Euro disaster zone

BYLINE: Bill Cash

SECTION: Features; 18

LENGTH: 1014 words


SCARCELY anyone seriously believes that the European constitution would achieves
a "yes" vote in a British referendum. Yet hardly any attention has been given to
the necessity, in any event, to renegotiate the existing European treaties
embedded in the constitution. Already the boundaries of these treaties are being
pushed further forward and European laws are being made, going far beyond what
was anticipated.

The European issue affects almost every aspect of our daily lives: who governs
us and how we are governed. It is not a theological distraction but a practical
question about our democracy and the voters' right to choose their government
and laws in general elections.

It is transparently clear that the European project is failing under the
existing treaties, as Wim Kok's report on the Lisbon agenda amply demonstrates.
There is low growth and high unemployment. No stability, no growth, no pact.
There is endemic fraud and the Court of Auditors has yet again refused to sign
off the European accounts. The immigration and asylum policies under the
existing treaties have broken down and social tensions are breaking out. As the
President of the CBI indicated, overregulation has become intolerable. The Prime
Minister's own Better Regulation Task Force has said that overregulation is
costing British business £100 billion a year -most of this regulation from
Europe.

So where do we go? The Conservative Party is the only party with any realistic
means of reversing this. Certainly it is committed to rejecting the constitution
in principle, but it is on the question of renegotiation that it needs to
clarify and explain its position on the existing treaties. Michael Howard has
rightly called for renegotiation on the Common Fisheries Policy and publicly
stated that if the other member states will not accept renegotiation, we will
legislate at Westminster unilaterally. This policy of renegotiation is, however,
limited to fisheries, foreign aid and the social chapter, but does not tackle
the key question of the wide range of matters that need to be renegotiated,
including the political structure of Europe.

Current opinion polls are distinctly depressing for the Conservative Party but
could be reversed by seizing the high ground on Europe. It is clear from the ICM
poll for the European Foundation in November that 58 per cent of voters,
including 68 per cent of 18 to 24-year-olds, want the existing treaties reduced
to trade and association agreements. Voters assume that there will be a
referendum on the constitution and, as with William Hague's policy on the euro
referendum in the 1997 general election, the political marketplace has largely
discounted the result. The Economist indicated last June that a policy for
associate status could add as much as 8 per cent to the Conservative Party tally
in a general election, even before it is fully explained.

The Prime Minister claims that it is impossible to renegotiate without the
agreement of every one of the other 24 EU member states. He refuses to accept
that the national interest turns on political will and that Westminster, on
behalf of its electorate, can legislate at will. If the other member states
refuse to listen and to act on our proposals for renegotiation, it is open to us
to exercise our political will with a determined threat of withdrawal.

If the EU won't listen we could pass something in line with my Sovereignty of
Parliament Bill which would require judges to give precedence to new British
laws over the European Communities Act 1972.

Where, therefore, does this place the Conservative Party? The Conservatives have
been faced with at least five similar situations over the past 150 years, which
led to splits. These include the Corn Laws, Home Rule, tariff reform,
appeasement and the Thatcher trade union reforms. In every case, those who had
been in the minority before reality set in have won the day. When Kenneth Clarke
on the Queen's Speech argues for the European constitution and against a
referendum, he and his diminutive band demonstrate their irreconcilable
divergence from the party's principles.

In another recent ICM poll 70 per cent of Conservative Party members have
suggested that if the party does not toughen its stance on Europe, people "like
themselves" could vote for the UK Independence Party. The UKIP policy of
unconditional withdrawal requires some form of negotiation. The UKIP cannot
achieve its objective without the Conservatives being in power and the
Conservatives cannot get into power without winning back those who have deserted
to the UKIP. In other words, Eurosceptics face mutually assured destruction,
with the Eurofanatic Labour Party and the Lib Dems winning by divide and rule.

There will almost certainly be an election this year. The Conservative Party
will succeed if it matches its principles and its policies in line with the
great issue of who governs Britain and demonstrates, as can easily be done, the
relationship of this to their daily lives. Some 60 per cent of British laws are
already spawned by the EU, most of which are unpopular. Yet the
focus-group-driven Conservative programme relegates the European issue to
relative obscurity.

The European issue is sometimes low in polling priorities only because it has
never been properly explained. For example, when Gordon Brown and the Prime
Minister taunt the Conservative Party over the high interest rates and high
unemployment of the 1990s, why do we not respond that they too were in favour of
the ERM and that the main reason why Mr Brown can claim a better economy here
than in the eurozone is despite, and not because of, the Government's commitment
to the European economic project?

The European issue is not the only issue before the British people, but it is
the most fundamental. Failure to grapple with the existing treaties before the
next election would become one of the great political mysteries and failures of
our time.

Bill Cash is Conservative MP for Stone and was Shadow Attorney-General 2001 03


LOAD-DATE: January 5, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              105 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            January 4, 2005, Tuesday

THE YEAR THAT WON'T BE - OR WILL IT?

BYLINE: MILES KINGTON

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 620 words


Today, as promised, we bring you the second half of ...

Old Mother Kington's Almanack for 2005!

JULY

Renewed outbreaks of illicit fox-hunting. Police say: "We are powerless. Still,
nothing new about that."

The new Religious Hatred Incitement Act makes it illegal to insult anyone who
holds any beliefs. But a private prosecution against the Prime Minister himself
fails, on the grounds that Tony Blair seems to hold no discernible beliefs.

A large second-hand rowing-boat, sold to a Canadian pleasure lake by the Royal
Navy, sinks in the lake with 14 people on board. Luckily, it is in only three
feet of water. Rowan Williams, Archbishop of Canterbury, says: "Sometimes it
almost makes you feel like believing in God!"

AUGUST

Tony Blair sets off on holiday round, taking up private invitations in five
different countries. Embarrassingly, he arrives at Berlusconi's Corsican
millionaire's hideaway a month early by mistake and is shot and wounded by
security guards. John Prescott, as Deputy Prime Minister, takes over Tony
Blair's holiday roster. "This would never happen if we had regional assemblies",
he says.

Mel Gibson's new film is announced. It is a life of Satan, based on Milton.
Satan will have a Scottish accent and the English will come out of it very
badly.

SEPTEMBER

Following increasing hostility to the Religious Hatred Incitement Act, the
government hastily introduces the Hatred of the Religious Hatred Incitement
Bill, which will make it illegal to incite hatred of any government move to
outlaw hatred. The press condemns this as political correctness gone mad. Robin
Cook condemns it as the Prime Minister gone mad. The Prime Minister smiles a
little, with strangely staring eyes.

More illegal fox-hunting. The Berkshire and Hampshire Hunt makes a takeover bid
for the Black Watch.

OCTOBER

Immense success of new TV reality show, I'm a Fox - Get Me Out Of Here!.
Contestants include Liam Fox, James Fox, Kerry Fox, Sam Fox, Robin Fox Lane, etc
etc.

In a by-election in Lancashire, Labour lose seat to Lib Dems. Taliban third,
followed by Pension Protest Party, SNP, UKIP and Tories, in that order.

Black Watch merges with the Woolwich.

NOVEMBER

In a final wild bid for power, Gordon Brown has Tony Blair sequestered under the
Hatred Act, claiming that Blair has an irrational hatred of fox-hunting, and has
conducted a persecution of those who believe in it.

Tony Blair counter-claims that Gordon Brown has gone mad. Robin Cook says that
this is madness gone mad. John Prescott says this would never have happened with
regional assemblies.

Everyone agrees that it is mad, and that they should break open a new deck of
cards and start the game all over again.

DECEMBER

Ukraine becomes the 45th nation to join the EU.

Burma, the Albania of Asia, finally admits that the country did suffer some
damage during the 2004 Boxing Day tsunami, in that it no longer has a coastline
and most of the country is under water, but refuses to accept any aid, saying
that it is quite capable of looking after itself.

A boy playing King Herod in a Nativity play in Leicestershire is arrested under
the Religious Hatred Incitement Act on the grounds of inciting Christian babies
to be slaughtered 2,000 years ago. In self-defence he pleads political
expediency and calls David Blunkett as witness and a fellow-supporter of tough
measures to stamp out terrorism.

Blunkett is found wandering the cliff-tops at night with the Duke of Gloucester
and Poor Tom, and asks to be left alone.

Christmas. High street shops say they are sure there will be a last-minute rush
of customers.

Boxing Day.

New Year: 2006 greeted with relief.

LOAD-DATE: January 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              106 of 106 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           January 1, 2005, Saturday

Only the best are chosen for prizes in Westminster's hall of infamy

BYLINE: Nick Robinson

SECTION: Features; 19

LENGTH: 684 words


ARBITRARY. Bizarre. Capricious. This is the ABC of the Notebook's Awards of the
Political Year. So, allow your mind to wander ever so briefly from the fight
against that new year hangover and join me for the Napys.

* The Sherlock Holmes Award for Unresolved Mystery.

The winner has to be the extraordinary decision of Tony and Cherie Blair to
spend more than £3.5 million on a house just as the property market was peaking.

Yet in the same year we learnt how seriously Mrs B takes the Chancellor's
injunction to be prudent, when it was revealed that she had bought shoes on eBay
and asked Greg Dyke to get her discounted Man United shirts for the kids.

* The John Moore Award for Political Blight.

Competition was fierce for this award which goes to the politician whose career
has been most blighted by being tipped as a future prime minister. Last year's
winner, David Lammy, recently damaged his prospects further with his botched
defence of the Government's policy on living wills. This year the winner is a
Conservative. It is neither George Osborne nor David Cameron, the Tory twosome
who are constantly compared with new Labour's dynamic duo -Blair and Brown (in
their earlier happier days, of course). The award goes to a man whom Michael
Portillo has tipped as the next Tory prime minister before he has even been
elected to the Commons. It is someone very familiar to readers of this paper
-The Times's Michael Gove. The award, I should add, is more a reflection on the
older Michael's judgement than on the young Michael's undoubted talents.

* The Ian Dowie Bouncebackability Award.

Stiff competition here too. Should the award go to the Scottish National Party
leader, Alex Salmond, the man back in the job he insisted he would never, ever
take again? Or should it be Peter Mandelson, who briefed the media that he was
unsure whether to take a job in Brussels or return to the Cabinet? Or to Alan
Milburn who discovered that there are limits to how much time families want Dad
to spend with them? While all worthy nominees, my runner-up is Iain Duncan Smith
for an impressive parliamentary attack on David Lammy (see above). The winner,
though, has to be Ken Livingstone, who proved that Labour needed him more than
he needed it, when he was allowed back into the party.

* The Ronald Macdonald Award for Best Takeaway.

This goes to Gordon Brown and John Prescott for shunning a Big Mac in favour of
oysters, thus producing enough stories to wrap up a year's supply of fish and
chip suppers. Despite Prezza's claim that he had only been buying kippers for
Alastair Campbell, the Loch Fyne summit took its place alongside that dinner at
Granita.

* The John Prescott Award for the Biggest Gaffe.

Prezza himself should be praised rather than ridiculed for lifting the lid on
the Prime Minister's wobble, when he revealed that the political "plates were
moving".

So, the runner-up is Melvyn Bragg, who blurted out how close his friend had come
to quitting. The winner, however, must be Michael Howard for telling an
interviewer that had he known before the war what he knew now he would not have
voted for it, even though he was still in favour of it.

* The People's Front of Judaea Top Splitter Award.

Only one possible winner here.

Robert Kilroy-Silk who lent the UK Independence Party his glamour, his fame and
Joan Collins; then led it to surprise electoral success, before inspiring
debilitating divisions about who should should lead the party.

* The Frank Field Award for Thinking that You Should Be Thinking the
Unthinkable.

The fiercely bright Lib Dem MP, David Laws, wins this award for producing the
Orange Book. Its launch was cancelled by the party leadership when it emerged
that he had concluded that the NHS was not the best way to provide healthcare.

* The Sven Improbable Love Triangle Award.

Joint winners: David, Kimberly and Mr Quinn.

* The Alastair Campbell Award for Eagerly Awaited Memoirs.

To Sadie, the guide dog, who saw so much, but couldn't steer her master away
from the greatest danger.


LOAD-DATE: January 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
