
                               1 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                   Daily Star

                                 April 30, 2005

DUMBO JUMBO; DOMINIK DIAMOND

BYLINE: DOMINIK DIAMOND

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 17

LENGTH: 100 words


THE new Airbus A380 Superjumbo took off on its maiden flight on Thursday. The
plane is so huge it can carry 555 passengers. Or alternatively Chris Moyles and
Michelle McManus on their honeymoon.

IN spite of a plunge from a pantomime beanstalk by Janette, the Krankies are
ready to tread the boards again at Blackpool this summer. On a more positive
note, we're all going to die some day.

WHAT in the name of God was that UK Independence Party election broadcast about?

Europe as a giant octopus storming the Houses of Parliament?

Maybe Kilroy was right to dump them after all. . .

LOAD-DATE: May 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 Express Newspapers

                               2 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 30, 2005

Election 2005: 5 days to go

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 185 words


Red faces over Greens

It was a case of red faces at Channel 4 after it mistakenly transmitted Ukip
subtitles over the Green party election broadcast.

Channel 4 apologised, but the Green party was "very disappointed". Ukip said:
"It is not very fair if a major national broadcaster cannot get its act together
and broadcast the right subtitles".

Embattled

Lord Goldsmith, the attorney general, has had a difficult week with documents.
Yesterday he called in the police to investigate a forged minute sent to
newsdesks which claimed to be from him to the prime minister. While the document
stated that invading Iraq could be illegal - all very credible so far - the
giveaway was the statement that the war could "pave the way for planned future
conflicts that have been discussed, like Syria, Iran and Saudi Arabia".

On the nose

London-based sculptor Bryan Ellery, unconvinced by Tony Blair's insistence that
he has never lied, has produced a cast bronze coathook (right) showing the prime
minister with a Pinocchio nose, "so that people would have something to remember
him by".


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               3 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 30, 2005

Sport: Sing the Internazionale and keep the Red Star flying

BYLINE: Harry Pearson

SECTION: Guardian Sport Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 845 words


Readers of these pages may not be aware of it, but apparently there's something
called a "General Election" going on at the moment. Last week it merited almost
as much space in this newspaper as the sports section, so clearly somebody must
think it's pretty important.

I wouldn't sully my hands with politics normally, of course, but when I saw that
the Liberal Democrats had billed themselves as "The Real Alternative" I simply
couldn't stand by apathetically any longer. The Real Alternative!

Honestly, I think Charles Kennedy is getting a bit carried away there. After
all, Real have Beckham, Owen, Ronaldo, Roberto Carlos and Zinedine Zidane
whereas the Lib Dems have Sir Menzies Campbell and Lembit Opik. It's hardly an
alternative, is it?

I can see why Mr Kennedy wanted to identify with the galacticos - there's a lot
of reflected glamour there that would certainly help the Lib Dems break into the
lucrative south-east Asian market - but I think he might have opted for
something that reflected the truth a little better. "The Osasuna Substitutes"
perhaps, or "Just A Shade Better Than Rayo Vallecano In Disguise".

No other party has adopted the Liberal Democrats' revolutionary approach of
wooing voters by touting themselves as possible replacements for European
football teams. This was an opportunity missed in my view. UKIP would have
attracted far more attention if it had boasted of being "A Serious Response To
F91 Dudelange", and to what might Mr Tony Blair have suggested himself as
riposte? "Labour - Pretty Much The Only Solution If You're Sick And Tired Of
Lviv".

I don't know to what the Conservatives would have offered themselves as an
alternative. Well, apart from a credible opposition, obviously. Michael Howard
has been a huge disappointment to me. I'm sure I am not alone in looking to the
Tories for a pledge to reintroduce compulsory archery in our schools. After all,
how can we possibly expect to reclaim Calais and Aquitaine from France when all
kids do nowadays is trampolining? What are we going to do, bounce up and down in
front of the Dauphin and the Duc D'Orleans until they start to feel queasy?
That's why I say: Come on Howard, you slacker, let's start turning the clock
back quicker. At the rate you're going it will take us 50 years to make a
welcome return to Tudor times.

In the end, though, it is not about what politics can give sport, but what sport
can give politics. Over the past decade successive governments have borrowed
from football and brought in league tables for schools, hospitals and other
public services. That's all well and good, but surely it's high time they
introduced a knockout competition as well?

Applying the traditional FA Cup format to the public sector would revitalise it
by giving everyone something extra to play for. I'm sure there are secondary
schools and cottage hospitals up and down the country that simply don't have the
depth of squad to mount a sustained campaign for the league title but who, on
their day, are capable of beating anyone.

Imagine the excitement of the draw for the third round proper, folk huddled
around their radio sets in staff rooms across Britain in the hope of a plum tie.
The prime minister and the health secretary draw the fateful balls from the
velvet bag while Jonathan Pearce whispers what it all means.

"And it's No 57."

"And that's the Priory Clinic, very much the favourites."

"Will play . . . No 17."

"Oh, well, well! It's Broadmoor. Would you believe it? And that's really one for
the romantics, isn't it, Mark Bright?"

"Very much so, Jonathan. The Priory with all their stars are the real glamour
boys. They'll start as clear favourites. But I have a sneaky feeling that if
Broadmoor can hold on for a draw they'll fancy their chances in a replay on
their own patch. Because you know, Jonathan, nobody relishes a trip to Broadmoor
in January."

Picture too, if you will, Secondary Education Cup Match of the Day and the
breathless commentary of John Motson, "And . . . I think it is. Yes, the Ofsted
inspector is pointing to Mrs Pargitter! The 57-year-old cello teacher has
clinched it in the dying seconds for the underdogs of Sinkhole Comprehensive!
And would you believe it, Graeme le Saux!"

"It's incredible, Motty. Only this morning she was selling hand-made organic
soaps in the farmers' market to supplement her meagre salary and now her
outstanding, disciplined performance in front of Year Eight has notched up the
points that have denied much-fancied Eton College a place in the fifth round."

"Indeed, Graeme. And what can you say except - heh-heh - it's the magic of the
Cup?"

The public would warm to it, I'm sure. After all, what is more guaranteed to
cheer your five-hour wait for a colonoscopy than the sight of a troop of
grinning senior consultants jogging past with various bits of silverware on
their heads, brandishing their youngest children at the cameras and singing
along to Queen? It's a sure-fire election winner for anyone who's bold enough to
run with it.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               4 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 30, 2005, Saturday

ELECTION 2005; C4 SORRY FOR RUNNING GREENS' BROADCAST WITH UKIP SUBTITLES

BYLINE: BY JAMES STURCKE

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 8

LENGTH: 297 words


Channel 4 has been forced to apologise to the Green Party for mistakenly
transmitting its election broadcast with UK Independence Party subtitles.

The first three minutes of the five minute broadcast, which was aired at 7.55pm
on Thursday in a prime-time slot after the channel's flagship news programme,
was shown with the UKIP script. The blunder led to a furious reaction from the
Green Party, which fears some viewers may confuse UKIP's negative stance on
Europe and immigration with their own policies.

A spokesman for the party said it was 'very disappointed' as it only had one
broadcast " shown on different channels " during the campaign. He added: 'UKIP's
policies are completely alien to Green thinking and progressive politics.'

Channel 4 said: 'It was a rare and honest mistake. The subtitles were stopped
before the end of the programme and replaced with an apology. Only a small
percentage of viewers would have been affected.'

The Green spokesman said Channel 4 had told them human error was responsible. He
added that Channel 4 said it would have to consult its lawyers as to whether the
broadcast could be shown again because of the strict rules governing party
election broadcasts to ensure fairness.

The Greens and other small parties are only allowed one election broadcast,
while the main parties can show three.

A UKIP spokesman said: 'It seems the audience got the UKIP message twice. We
feel sorry for the Greens in as much as it is not very fair if a major
broadcaster cannot get its act together.'

The Green broadcast was directed by Alex Cox and set to a Franz Ferdinand
soundtrack. The broadcast portrayed a dystopian future of war, corporate
domination and curtailed civil liberties under a future Labour government.

LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                               5 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 30, 2005, Saturday

A party not raving but drowning

BYLINE: David Baddiel

SECTION: Features; 25

LENGTH: 938 words


THE OTHER DAY, I was watching a rerun on Channel 4 of the 100 Greatest Kids' TV
Shows, when Timmy Mallett came on. Now, when I was young and carefree, I did a
sketch on The Mary Whitehouse Experience about Timmy, which consisted entirely
of the three words "What a tosser".

Looking at him now, still wearing a comedy baseball hat and enormous glasses
with a rubber mallet attached, I felt almost sorry for him, felt that there was
something almost poignant about his desperation, felt, indeed, slightly ashamed
of myself for the above piece of immature snotty superciliousness. And another
part of me thought: what a tosser.

Because the two most awful words in the English language, terrible enough apart
but suicide-inducing when conjoined, are "wacky" and "zany": and Timmy more than
anyone embodies the struggle of the rigorously humour-free to overcome their
disability by embracing this pairing into their very soul.

The official homeland, however, of wackiness and zaniness in all their horror is
the Monster Raving Loony Party. A quick look at its website reveals a list of
candidates shocking in their commitment to the "I'm Just Mad, Me" school of
unfunniness, clear enough from the pictures of them all in various big,
colourful, and massively tiresome joke-shop costumes, but clearer still from
their names: R.U. Seerius (Erewash), Professor Percifolders (Northampton South),
Hairy Norm (Mid Kent & Faversham), Mad Cow-Girl (Sunderland South), and -well,
they're all of course trying much too hard, but this really takes the
trying-too-hard biscuit -its candidate for Hartlepool, who is called Jedediah
Caleb Bartimaeus Headbanger (Sausage Supremo).

One might hope that the pernicious influence of MRLP is restricted to balding
middle-aged men who work in telesales and are rarely invited to join their
colleagues for drinks in the evening, but, sadly, their website includes a huge
list of candidates in school mock-elections, all similarly festooned with
sub-Comic Relief crazy costumes, and calling themselves things like Rumbustious
Lord Random and Sir Chunky Bible Thwack!!! (exclamation marks -always the
insignia of the overdoing-it -included). This is worrying, as children can
usually be relied upon to provide the litmus test of the actually funny.

And the MRLP gets votes. At the last election, it got 6,655. If you include the
breakaway -yes, it's such a proper political party, it's even got a breakaway
faction -Rock N' Roll Loony Party (clearly formed by those party members
frightened of being discovered as balding middle-aged men with no actual anarchy
in their souls), they got another 2,634 votes, a total of 9,289: well above such
genuine parties as the Scottish Unionists and -God help us all -the Communist
Party, who at 1,003 votes must at some point have considered adding a yellow top
hat and joke springy-eye glasses on to its leaflet pictures of Marx.

Since the real interest of MRLP candidates is to get on television, in order to
be seen behind the returning officer in a costume that the Chuckle Brothers
would reject as too broad, a lot of them are standing in the publicityfocused
key marginals. In Cardiff Central, which Labour won in 2001 with a majority of
659, another breakaway MRLP faction has been formed, called the New Millennium
Bean Party. I phoned its candidate, Captain Beany (real name, changed by deed
poll), a very sweet old Welsh bloke, who spends all his time in orange make-up
and an orange superhero costume, and he told me that his party has 2,000
members. If they, or enough other Cardiff voters, decide to take Brian
Sedgemore's advice to give Tony Blair a bloody nose, and chose to do this by
voting for a man claiming to be a baked bean from outer space, the Lib Dems will
win. In this key seat, Wack and Zane hold the balance of power.

But don't vote for them, there or anywhere else. Please. I know we in the UK are
all saddled with a postPython version of ourselves, but Python was a
masterpiece; the MRLP is a terrible bastardised descendant, sprung from the
heads of those people who could never have written Python but who instead
memorise the words and then say them endlessly to each other as a substitute for
proper conversation. About the only thing more stupid than politics itself is
people who want to make a point about how stupid it is by standing for
Parliament in a stupid way. I would have more respect for you if you told me
that you intended to vote BNP. Even UKIP. Even Respect. Possibly even the
Conservatives.

Screaming Lord Sutch was a genuine gutsy 1960s blues singer. It's something of a
tragedy that his main legacy will be the MRLP. When I think of him in his top
hat and Union Jack colours, I'm reminded of Ken Bailey, the man who used to
dress similarly to go to all England games in my youth. And then I'm reminded
that Ken Bailey, towards the end of his life, was charged with child
molestation. Inside people like Sutch and Bailey and all the Professor
Percifolders and Hairy Norms there is always some deep core of sadness: it's
what they have to cover over with achingly forced eccentricity. There are real
characters in this life, and they are rare, and then there are self-styled
colourful characters, and they are legion. We must, like Satan, put them behind
us. Remember: vote for the Monster Raving Loony Party -and wake up with Timmy
Mallett.

P.S. Those of you who are already sharpening your pencils to write in and say
"If David Baddiel thinks the MRLP is the repository of all things unfunny,
surely he should be a fully paid-up member", the address is on the letters page.


LOAD-DATE: April 30, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                               6 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

Sensible Loonies hedge their bets CAMPAIGN DIARY 2005

BYLINE: By Ben Fenton

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 009

LENGTH: 384 words

Rational gamblers THE Monster Raving Loony Party has not been much in the news
since the sad demise of its founder, Screaming Lord Sutch.

But it is quietly getting on with things and has adopted a worryingly rational
policy to insure against lost deposits.

Kind bookmakers have offered the 17 Loony candidates a hedge against the loss of
their pounds 500 election deposit by promising them sponsorship in the form of
free bets worth pounds 50 or pounds 100.

Rather than the five per cent of the vote that even his Lordship never attained,
all the candidate has to do is reach an agreed target at varying odds.

So, for instance, Lord Toby Jug, standing against Michael Howard in Folkestone,
has used his pounds 100 to back himself at 5-1 to win 150 votes, which is a
great deal more likely than the 900 or so he would need under boring electoral
rules.

The diary applauds a lifeline to loonies, but is this really something of which
Lord S would have approved? Too sensible by half, we think.

By name, not by nature.

If people vote according to their attitudes to this election, then the UKIP
candidate for Richmond Park in south-west London must have a more than fighting
chance.

Peter Dul is, interestingly, a lawyer who has spent "30 years working for a
Protection and Indemnity Association", which sounds like fun. His election
leaflet informs us that he has been fighting against membership of the EU since
it was called the Common Market, which shows the man has a sense of humour.

The diary has thought hard, but cannot come up with a catchier or more seemly
slogan for the 2005 election than his.

Helmsman Watch. Day 29.

More cheering news from the campaign trail of John Prescott, the Great Helmsman,
who has been spreading honest cheer among the contented folk of the East
Midlands.

Here is an update from his campaign's internet diary reporting on a visit by the
GH to an old people's home, built with government help, of course, in Mansfield:
" 'You can feel the warmth, when you walk into these new places', John said.
'But it's not just the new central heating, it's the warmth generated by people
being happy in their homes.' "

The diary feels compelled to repeat its notification of a couple of days ago:
this is not a spoof.

At least, we're pretty sure it's not.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                               7 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 29, 2005

Election 2005: Wandering in the wilderness - how Tories stole Ukip's political
clothes: On the fringe: Support drifts away into nostalgia and conspiracy
theories as other parties crowd in on key policies

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 881 words


The extremists are always elsewhere. "If this was the sort of extreme rightwing
party you've seen caricatured in the press, I wouldn't be here," said Simon
Heffer, the Daily Mail columnist, addressing 70 supporters of the UK
Independence party in a hotel on Ramsgate seafront this week.

The very first audience member approached by the Guardian seemed to undermine
his thesis - "Tell you the truth, I used to be National Front," said Kevin
Munson, a 58-year-old former printworker. And yet even he, apparently, was just
another moderate. "The National Front wasn't as the press depicted it," Mr
Munson insisted. "I was never a rightwing extremist."

Nobody, by their own definition, is ever on the fringes of British politics. And
in Ramsgate at dusk, surrounded by placards promising an end to mass
immigration, a large union flag draped behind the stage, you could see how you
might believe that you were part of a mainstream movement on the verge of
sweeping Britain.

Nigel Farage, by some distance Ukip's most charismatic MEP, and its
parliamentary candidate for South Thanet, which includes Ramsgate, whipped up
the crowd like a Southern preacher. "This is a bogus general election campaign!"
he cried. "Disgusting!" they cried back. "And now they want Turkey - Turkey! -
to join the EU!" he continued. "We've simply got to say enough is enough!"

In truth, though, things have rarely looked bleaker for Ukip. Was any
organisation ever such a victim of its own success? The Conservative campaign
has co-opted its flagship issue, immigration, so emphatically that Ukip - which
received 16% of the national vote in last year's European elections, and 38% in
Thanet South - is struggling to poll 1%. To make the pill more bitter still,
there is the wistful question of how things might have been different with
Robert Kilroy-Silk at the helm.

"What's interesting is how terrified some people in (Tory) central office were a
year and a bit ago - and now that seems a ridiculous thing to think," said
Philip Cowley, a political analyst at Nottingham University. "There was a real
fear that Ukip was going to cost them the election." Today, there seems no
chance that votes lost to Ukip, or to Mr Kilroy-Silk's new party, Veritas, will
be a significant cause of the Tories' probable defeat.

"Look, it was much easier last year, because Europe was the issue, and it was
PR, and we were on a bit of a roll," Mr Farage acknowledged. "Am I nostalgic? It
was terrific fun, and I'm very proud of what we did. But this is a damn sight
tougher."

This new climate is wreaking strange effects on the always strange world of the
anti-European fringe. Robbed of their strongest issue, but with Europe itself
going close to unmentioned by the big parties, Ukip's evangelists edge further
and further into conspiracy theorism.

The entire election is essentially a sham, they explain knowingly, as if
revealing that the moon landings were filmed in the Nevada desert.

Ukip officials and supporters alike murmur about "a plot to change the face of
Britain" through multiculturalism, of Maltese people "flooding the country", of
a friend of a friend who lived in a town where they couldn't put up signs saying
Happy Christmas, because of political correctness. ("Scrap political
correctness" is one of Mr Farage's several ambitious election pledges.)

Mr Kilroy-Silk, too, is struggling to define himself against the Tory focus on
immigration. Sometimes he tries to outdo the Conservatives in hyperbole - Polish
workers undercut their British rivals, he told a reporter recently, because
Poles live "10 to a room" - and sometimes, for variety, he accuses the Tories of
racism. This week, he was promoting his other main policy: a 22% flat tax, but
not particularly energetically. Whether through arrogance, defeatism, or just an
aversion to wet weather, he failed to show up for a scheduled walkabout at the
London Stock Exchange this week, leaving half a dozen of his candidates to get
drenched by a thunderstorm.

Understanding that his celebrity is his party's primary appeal, he has been
focusing not on canvassing, in his constituency of Erewash or elsewhere, but on
lifestyle slots in sympathetic media outlets. He had stopped buying lottery tick
ets, he disclosed to the personal finance section of one newspaper recently,
"since they started giving money to stupid things, like guinea-pig farmers in
Peru".

Celebrity certainly counts for something. But for both Ukip and Veritas, the
core psychological challenge is stark: how on earth do you convince even a
handful of floating voters that all you are advocating is mere common sense,
when only 1% of the population agrees with you? The only viable option is to
preach the message of the religious cult: everybody else is living in a dream
world; only an enlightened few are yet awake.

In the chilly Ramsgate night this week, Ukip supporters gamely signed up for
canvassing, tossed money into a waiting bucket, and collected signs to display
in their windows and front gardens. To be sure, the signs said "We want our
country back" - but apart from that, you might easily have mistaken it for
politics as usual; the ordinary work of local campaigning. Extremism, after all,
is for other people.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                               8 of 175 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 29, 2005

Ukip goes Green in C4 election blunder

LENGTH: 432 words



HIGHLIGHT: 4.45pm: Channel 4 has been forced to apologise to the Green party
after mistakenly transmitting its election broadcast with subtitles from the UK
Independence Party. By Julia Day..


Channel 4 has been forced to apologise to the Green party after mistakenly
transmitting its election broadcast with subtitles from the UK Independence
Party.

Last night's broadcast, promoting the party's vision of a green future, was
directed by Repo Man film-maker Alex Cox and set to a Franz Ferdinand
soundtrack.

But subtitles for a Ukip broadcast, which cursed the European Union, were
screened simultaneously.

The Greens are furious that some viewers may now think they take Ukip's negative
stance on Europe, immigration and political correctness.

"It's pretty awful, It totally lost the message," said a Green party spokesman,
adding that representations are being made to Channel 4 about the mistake.

Channel 4 said overlaying the Ukip subtitles was a genuine mistake that was
rectified during the broadcast, which began at 7.55pm in a prime slot after the
network's flagship news bulletin.

"It was a rare and honest mistake. The subtitles were stopped before the end of
the programme and replaced with an apology. Only a small percentage of viewers
would have been affected," a spokesman added.

The Green spokesman said Channel 4 told his party that the erroneous subtitles -
which ran for three of the broadcast's five minutes - were added as a result of
"human error" at BBC Broadcast, the company responsible for adding the
subtitles. However, the Green election broadcast shown on other channels had the
correct subtitles.

He added that Channel 4 said it would have to consult its lawyers as to whether
the broadcast could be reshown because of the strict rules governing party
election broadcasts to ensure fairness.

Channel 4 was unable to say if any redress will be made to the Green party.

The Greens - in common with other small parties such as Ukip and the British
National party - are only entitled to one election broadcast, unlike the three
afforded to the main parties. The election broadcast represents a single - and
therefore vital - opportunity to attract voters.

Ukip is delighted with the mix-up, however. Its own election broadcast will be
screened tonight and a spokesman for the party said he hoped the extra, albeit
erroneous, exposure its policies received will help attract a few more votes.

"We're not letting .the Greens. put their subtitles on our broadcast, though.
Although we have a green octopus in our broadcast. It swims up the Thames and
swallows the Houses of Parliament," he added.

To contact the MediaGuardian news desk email editor@mediaguardian.co.uk or phone
020 7239 9857

If you are writing a comment for publication, please mark clearly "for
publication".

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                               9 of 175 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 29, 2005

Election briefing: The calm after the storm

LENGTH: 840 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to Guardian Unlimited's free daily election briefing.


Welcome to Guardian Unlimited's free daily election briefing.

Today: The campaign moves on from Iraq to GP appointments, and the Economist
plumps for Blair

>>> ADVERTISEMENT

Labour day, or con job?

Get a free £25 bet when you join Blue Sq and place a bet on the general
election.

Bluesq.com

>>> AT A GLANCE ...

The storm over Lord Goldsmith's advice on Iraq seems to have abated. Gordon
Brown repeated his warnings about the Conservatives' handling of the economy
this morning. Tony Blair, meanwhile, is expected to follow up on the discovery
that some patients are unable to make an appointment with their GP more than 48
hours in advance because of government-imposed targets - a discovery that
embarrassed him somewhat on the Question Time television programme last night.

"It only takes one in 10 of our voters to drift off to the Liberal Democrats and
you end up with a Tory government," he warned voters at the launch of a new
"Forward With Blair and Brown/ Back With Howard and Letwin" poster. The Lib
Dems, who have been emphasising their party's appeal to pensioners this morning,
dispute this.

More on these stories

>>> WHO'S WHERE

Tony Blair is about to visit Shipley in Yorkshire.

Michael Howard is in Portsmouth to inspect a waterbus pontoon.

Charles Kennedy is visiting a residential home near Leeds. He will meet "active
elderly ramblers" on a walkabout in Dumbartonshire East this afternoon.

>>> QUOTES OF THE DAY

"If the Conservatives, or indeed the Liberal Democrats, were offering an
alternative government likely to combine superior fiscal management, fewer
burdens on business, liberal policies on immigration and civil liberties, and a
foreign policy geared toward further progress in the Middle East and a
constructively critical approach to the European Union, the Economist would
switch its endorsement. But such an alternative does not exist. Tony Blair, for
all his flaws, remains the best centre-right option there is." - The Economist
reluctantly endorses Labour

"As people prepare for a long bank holiday weekend, it's time to remind people
what we are going to do and how we are going to do it." - Michael Howard
outlines his plans for the weekend.

"Michael Howard doesn't understand anything about MRSA at all and whenever he is
challenged about it all he does is hide behind the fact that Sandra Paul's
mother died of MRSA. That is not a substitute for scientific evidence. It does
not entitle Michael Howard to talk unscientific piffle about MRSA and to try to
scare Welsh patients from going into hospital to have their treatments. [...]
Howard seems to think it is something to do with this retro-fetishism about
bringing back matron which seems to appeal to a lot of public school boys for
reasons I don't understand." - Welsh first minister Rhodri Morgan

"I believe there is a majority in this country for stability and for low
mortgage rates. And let that not be a silent majority. Let it be, in this
constituency and every constituency in this country, a voting majority. Let that
not be a sit-it-out majority, let that be a voting majority, a majority for Tony
Blair to be our prime minister, not only on May 5 but on May 6 and afterwards,
too." Gordon Brown postpones his ambitions.

>>> WHAT THE PAPERS ARE SAYING

Times: Tony Blair interviewed - Gordon Brown will make an excellent prime
minister

Telegraph: Lord Goldsmith is fearsomely bright and not the type to be "nobbled"

Times: Last night's Question Time debate - Alice Miles keeps score

Guardian: The publication of the March 7 advice shows that Lord Goldsmith caved
into pressure from No 10

Guardian: Robin Cook - "Vulnerable people in Britain must not be made further
collateral damage of the Iraq war by being denied a Labour government"

FT: "Mr Blair's authority continues to shrink"

Independent: Did Blair mislead us? Yes, says Maurice Mendelson QC. No, says
Geoffrey Bindman

Mail: Rory Bremner - "Like a fish, Labour is rotting from the head down. For the
sake of David Kelly and Tom Keys it's time for a decapitation"

Times: Matthew Parris - Out and about with the Tories' gay candidates

Guardian: Polly Toynbee - We need proportional representation now

>>> LATEST POLLS

Telegraph/YouGov: Lab 36 Con 32 LD 24 (Lab lead 4%)

>>> ELECTIONS PAST

"Thirteen years of Conservative rule went out yesterday without a whimper but
with nothing approaching a bang either." Norman Shrapnel reports on Harold
Wilson's victory in 1964.

>>> FROM OUR ELECTION BLOG

Tom Happold on last night's Question Time appearances by the party leaders,
Liane Katz on the solidly Anglo-Saxon origins of the Ukip candidates's surnames,
and Matthew Tempest on a curiously catty remark from the Tories' Liam Fox

All this and more

>>> ON TV TONIGHT

6.55pm, BBC1: Party Election Broadcast: UK Independence Party

"We have a green octopus that looks like Valery Giscard d'Estaing romping up the
Thames and devouring our parliament," explains the Ukip press office. "Then we
have the handsome and talented Roger Knapman explaining our policies, followed
by our chairman explaining why people should vote for Ukip."

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              10 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

PANDORA: KILROY'S HEALTH MAN LEAVES AFTER MAKING A VERITABLE MEAL OF IT

BYLINE: BY GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 790 words


Less than a week before polling day, Robert Kilroy-Silk's Veritas Party has been
dragged into an internal row so bizarre that even his old 'firm', the
perma-feuding UK Independence Party, couldn't make it up.

Kilroy, right, has been forced to sack his health spokesman Tony Green " the
Veritas candidate for Northampton South " from his 'cabinet', for claiming he
would make people carry compulsory food diaries in order to qualify for NHS
treatment.

The policy, outlined in the party's health manifesto, led to widespread
ridicule. 'The first thing that needs to be examined with every patient is their
diet,' it read. 'Patients will need to bring a food diary with them so this can
be evaluated to see where they are contributing to their problems.

'Illness does not just happen: there is always a cause and that cause needs to
be identified and dealt with. Nutrition plays a part in both prevention and
recovery. Lack of nutrition plays a major role in the cause of illness.'

Upon being questioned about the policy, Kilroy " who claims to be confident of
winning a seat at Westminster " is understood to have bawled out Green, and
replaced him with one Grant Allen, candidate for Stoke-on-Trent.

Kilroy wasn't available for comment yesterday, but Green released a statement
saying: 'Whatever the situation is between me and Robert Kilroy-Silk, that is
between me and him. I am not prepared to comment further.'

Naomi's one-stop shop at Tesco

As well as never working with children and animals, there are plenty of
sensitive souls who swear by giving Naomi Campbell a wide berth.

Just ask the good people of Tesco, who hired the tempestuous supermodel, left,
to appear in their latest TV advert, which aired this week.

Sources at the supermarket's ad agency, Lowe, tell me Campbell won't be working
for them again after treating staff on their shoot to one of her trademark
'moments'.

'Naomi arrived half an hour late, which by her standards isn't that bad,' I'm
told. 'But when it came to getting ready, she point-blank refused to change with
other actors.

'We ended up turfing a load of make-up artists out of their studio to make
room.'

A spokesman for Tesco admits they won't be making any more ads with Campbell,
but denies this reflects a falling-out. 'It was always going to be a one- off,'
I'm told. 'As far as we are concerned, she arrived on time.'

A question of spelling

The magisterial quiz-show veteran William G Stewart " anchorman of Fifteen to
One " has decided to step down after 18 months as president of the Media
Society.

His farewell message to members lands on my desk. In it, Stewart, right, manages
to call Rebekah Wade, the editor of The Sun 'Rebeka', and talks of 'stella'
guests on Media Society stages. These are said to include the BBC directors
'Jana Bennet' (no second t) and 'Lorraine Heggersey' (Heggessey to close family
and friends).

Stewart is thought to have dictated the missive to a fat-fingered secretary. But
it makes you wonder how he'd fare on his own show.

'Deepcut' drama

Tim Lott is the latest modish writer to tap into the renaissance of 'political'
theatre. He's just begun a play " his first ever " about recent suicides at the
Army's Deepcut Barracks in Surrey.

'It's for the Tricycle Theatre,' he tells me. 'They asked if I'd write something
about faith, so I've decided to look at the whole Deepcut episode. It's a tricky
area, but I think I have a right to write about controversial subject matter.'

Lott, speaking at the launch of his new book The Seymour Tapes, is happy to dip
his toe in controversial waters.

'The demonstrations that happened about Behzti (the Sikh play that caused riots
at Birmingham Rep) were a disgrace,' he adds.

'Authors have the right to be offensive. I've no sympathy with that strand of
liberalism that says we must tolerate intolerance.'

Dignity comes first for Ms Abbott

Say what you like about Andrew Neil, he's no shrinking violet. The media chief
performs Is this the Way to Amarillo? attired in a purple smoking jacket and
feather boa " on the title sequence to his late-night TV show This Week.

Michael Portillo minces along beside him, but there's no sign of Brillo's other
sidekick, Diane Abbott.

'This isn't for want of trying,' I'm told. 'Diane was asked several times to
take part, but refused; she's got an election to fight, and " unlike Neil and
Portillo " she isn't prepared to sacrifice her dignity to advance a media
career.'

You'd have thought a boulevardier of Neil's standing would brush the karaoke
sequence under the carpet. But instead, he's e-mailed it to chums with the
comment: 'I fear you might have a good laugh at this.' I'll say!

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              11 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: ELECTION DIARY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 29

LENGTH: 309 words


Good day

Dominic Grieve, the shadow Attorney General, who seized on the heart of the Iraq
issue when he said he would not have backed the war if he had known what the
Attorney General had been saying then.

Bad day

Michael Howard, after Professor Sir Bob Worcester, chairman of MORI, warned that
the Conservatives were seen as extreme, out of touch and divided. 'If you were a
poker player and you were dealt that hand, you'd fold,' he said.

Are we nearly there yet?

Playwright and commentator Keith Waterhouse finds the campaign hard going.
'Unless John Prescott thumps somebody, this is going to be the longest week in
politics since last week,' he said.

Match of the day

Gordon Brown and Tony Blair, sported similar spotted burgundy ties yesterday.
Vote Blair, get another bloke in a dodgy tie.

Quote of the day (part one)

'...regime change cannot be the objective of military action.' The Attorney
General Lord Goldsmith in his secret legal advice to Tony Blair.

Quote of the day (part two)

'I took the view then, I take it now, that it was better for this country's
security, and the security of the world, to remove Saddam and put him in prison
rather than have him in power.' Tony Blair yesterday.

Q&A

1: Who said: 'If you think you have done nothing wrong and the people around you
have done nothing wrong that gives you strength.'

2: Which council has to reprint 16,000 postal ballot packs because of a blunder?

3: Who claimed to have 'communication from higher realms' telling her Blair
would not win next week?

Answers

1: Cherie Blair, pressed on the Iraq controversy during a visit to a school in
Kent. 2: Wyre borough council in Lancashire, which blamed 'human error' for the
administrative mistake. 3: The spiritualist Irenea Marriot, who is standing for
UKIP in North Nottingham.

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              12 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

05/05/05 THE ELECTION: BULLSH*TTER

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 25 words


It is a divine inspiration. You get a communication from higher realms.Ukip
spiritualist IRENEA MARRIOTT "knows" Blair will not be re-elected

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              13 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

I don't have voter apathy, I just have voter rage

BYLINE: Jane Shilling

SECTION: Features; Times2; 2

LENGTH: 943 words


Goodness knows, the election campaign so far has been dismally short of jokes.
But Eddie Mayer on the PM progamme does his best with the unpromising material
available to him, and it was there I caught the nearest thing so far to a flash
of comedy, when the sitting candidate in the Devon seat which Boris Johnson's
father is contesting for the Tories, said loftily that "he (Bozza's dad, that
is) doesn't resonate on the doorstep".

Leaving aside for a moment the thought that if there was resonating to be done,
the Johnsons, pere et fils, would surely be the first people you'd think of to
do it, I confess to feeling a bit miffed that there hasn't been more electoral
resonance on my own front doorstep. I am, after all, a member of a group, the
"school gate mums", that has been identified by election strategists as a key
target when it comes to winning votes.

So far, I have received leaflets from the following: Gary Bushell (formerly of
The Sun, now of English Democrats -electoral slogan, Not Right, Not Left, Just
English). Thanks, Gary. I'll bear you in mind.

Then there was the one from UKIP, to which my first reaction as it fluttered
through the letterbox in all its magenta and cadmium yellow glory was that the
entire party is badly in need of a trip to Colour Me Beautiful.

Rather late -as though they'd got more important things to do than canvass my
vote -there came the leaflets of the Conservative and Labour parties. The
Conservative is a fresh-faced youth with a neat blond fringe and a cheery smile.

He looks about 13. My first reaction, were I to find him on my doorstep, would
be to ask if his mummy knew he was out.

At least the rubric on the Tory leaflet begins "I am asking for your vote..."-
in contrast to that of the Labour candidate, who simply assumes that he's going
to get it, and tells me in a series of strangely verb-free bullet points what he
plans to do with it. From the Lib Dems and the Greens, not a squeak. They must
think Greenwich a lost cause.

What makes the lacklustre nature of the election campaign in my constituency
seem particularly bizarre is the fact that every time I turn on the radio or
open a newspaper, I find myself being bullied in the most emphatic terms about
voter apathy. Every single election since I have been entitled to vote, I have
thought hard about whether to do so. I think about the nature of democracy and,
even more painfully, about the suffragettes of my great-grandmothers'
generation, who fought so hard to win me the right to vote. And then I think
about the value of that hard-won vote, and the way in which, if I use it, it
endorses the party for whom I cast it. And it seems to me that refusing to cast
it for anyone is the most powerful statement I can possibly make. It isn't voter
apathy that prevents me from voting. it is voter rage.

The point about political change is that you can't effect it by wishing or
talking about it. You have to put in hours and hours of hard work. I, for
example, have to put in many hours of hard work to earn enough money to send my
son to a private school. I do this because, like the Prime Minister and the
Leader of the Opposition when it came to the schooling of their children, I am
bitterly unhappy with the quality of the state education available to me. The
fact that I spend so much of my taxed income on my son's education means that I
am unable to save and, since I am self-employed, in a couple of decades' time I
shall certainly be joining the "one in four" people reported to be heading for
poverty in retirement.

Meanwhile, the demands on my time have just increased: one of my neighbours, an
elderly Polish man who fought for the Allies in the Second World War, was run
over two years ago. His knee was smashed and he needed an operation. Waiting
list pledges notwithstanding, he still hadn't has the operation, but his health
declined so catastrophically that he had to go into hospital as an emergency. A
couple of weeks ago, he was deposited back on his doorstop by a kindly ambulance
crew. "Ta, ta, Wladislaw, look after yourself," they said. And drove off,
leaving him, confused and unwell, to do exactly that.

My street, as it happens, is full of tough old ladies who keep their front doors
open during the day and look out for one another. So they are cooking and
cleaning for Wladislaw -going in to chat and make sure he's taken his pills -and
so am I.

Between us I suppose we may keep him going until he's well enough to have his
knee done -though it seems perfectly clear that the NHS is, in effect, waiting
for him to do the decent thing and die.

Meanwhile the burden of his care is falling on us, not the politicians with
their grandiose claims. "They don't know nothing about real life, none of them,"
said my neighbour, Katherine, as we made up Wladislaw's bed on the day he came
home. "God forgive me but I'd like to see them in his position."

Which is what I think too. I see the effectiveness of direct action, when a
celebrity such as Jamie Oliver or Bob Geldof embraces a cause with passion.

And when it comes to politics, that's what I, and the ladies in my street, are
doing in our own small way. We haven't got time for grand visions and
Westminster politics, because we are too busy mopping up the messes the
politicians have made on our own doorsteps, and because we feel completely
alienated from them in any case.

Come to think of it, it's probably just as well that none of the candidates has
been round to resonate on my doorstep. By God, he'd go away with a flea in his
ear if he did.

Send your comments to: debate@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              14 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

A quiet Briton thinks he has history on his side

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Home news; 38

LENGTH: 628 words


A quiet Briton thinks he has history on his side, says Damian Whitworth

EUROPE doesn't seem to be a huge issue in this election. Or, at least, that's
what we keep hearing. But I have received enough e-mails from readers banging
the drum for, and sometimes against, the UK Independence Party that I felt
duty-bound to sniff the cordite on one of the anti-EU brigade's West Country
battlefields.

Dorset North feels like the heart of another England. Devoid of cities,
unscarred by motorways, the landscape hasn't changed much since Thomas Hardy
wrote about it.The seat has been Conservative for half a century. At the last
election Robert Walter beat the Liberal Democrats by almost 4,000 votes.

The UKIP says that in the European elections, when it won 12 seats nationally,
it harvested more than 11,000 votes in the area. The question is if that success
will translate into general election glory.

The UKIP candidate in Dorset North is Richard Frampton Hobbs, 41, a Desert Rat
in the Gulf War and a Dorset landowner whose estate has been in the family for
almost a thousand years.

"I come from a naturally very conservative family. We arrested the Tolpuddle
Martyrs," he said. But he now believes that only the UKIP "will give the British
their country back" by withdrawing from the EU.

He denies that the support for the party has reached its high-water mark and
believes that it is better off now that Robert Kilroy-Silk's suntanned face has
departed. "Most of our sympathisers were not prepared to follow an ego."

Mr Frampton Hobbs's line is that Tony Blair is going to win and there is no
point electing a Tory who won't take a hard line on Europe. He claims that Mr
Walter is "fabulously pro-EU" and he is going "to knock him over, full stop". If
he fails to take the seat himself but wins enough votes to hand victory to the
Lib Dem candidate he will have no regrets.

Mr Walter said that he thought it was unlikely that the UKIP would win. "I don't
know where they get the idea I am pro-EU. " Mr Frampton Hobbs is a friendly
fellow but has a somewhat reticent approach to canvassing. In the village of
Stalbridge he hovered at the end of garden paths while his fellow canvassers
rang a few doorbells.

Outside a mini market on the High Street in Blandford Forum he tentatively
proffered a leaflet at a woman carrying shopping bags in each hand. "Have you
got room for one of these?" he said. "Er, no," came the reply.

Eventually a man stopped and said that he had voted for the UKIP in the European
elections but would vote Tory this time. "I don't think the UKIP are big enough
for the national parliament," he said.

"Everyone's got to start somewhere," Mr Frampton Hobbs pleaded.

His campaign manager, Peter Watson, said that a woman wanted a poster in her
window. "OK, so how do I do that?" Mr Frampton Hobbs said. It was almost
endearingly amateurish. To a passing woman he delivered the most unusual line I
have heard throughout the campaign: "If you don't vote for me, vote Green."

Back in the car park after more than an hour on the streets he found, at last, a
UKIP supporter. The man had a solution to the asylum problem: "Stop the f******
coming in."

"If we had another month we would take this seat, because everyone who meets
Richard likes him," Mr Watson said. I suspect that the Frampton Hobbs family may
need to wait a little longer for such a triumph. Another thousand years perhaps.

*DOORSTEP DAMIAN is the reporter at your beck and call
damian.whitworth@thetimes.co.uk

* DORSET NORTH

MP: Robert Walter

since 1997

2001 result

Conservative 22,314

Liberal Democrat 18,517

Labour 5,334

UK Independence 1,019

Lower Excise 391

Independent 246

Majority 3,797


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              15 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 29, 2005, Friday

Out and about - how Conservatives have come to take pride in their gays

BYLINE: Matthew Parris

SECTION: Home news; 33

LENGTH: 1197 words


AUNT Dolly, thou should'st be living at this hour.

It was 35 years ago that I last visited Hove, to see my great-aunt. She was 97.
I was young, Tory -and secretly gay. That was not the kind of thing you
mentioned in Hove, and certainly not to Dolly.

On Wednesday, I returned -to see a young, openly gay Tory campaigning like a
tornado for the Conservative Party. He was the parliamentary candidate. And,
truth to tell, Dolly would have adored him.

On Thursday, I took the Southern Railway to another Sussex constituency, Arundel
& South Downs. And the Tory candidate here? Young, gay, and open about it. Dolly
would have adored him too.

George Orwell once remarked that, in much of the South of England, it was
impossible to throw a brick without hitting the niece of a bishop. Today there
are great swaths of the Home Counties where it is impossible to throw a brick
without hitting a gay Tory parliamentary candidate. Nicholas Boles and his crew
met me at Hove station wearing jeans and jay-blue T-shirts, in a jay-blue
Hyundai driven by Dawn. Within minutes we were met by more blue T-shirts and
more vehicles, though Francis Maude, the former Cabinet Minister, had drawn the
line at the T shirt.

There was even a young man in pink corduroy trousers, but he turned out to be
heterosexual. Don't they dress outrageously?

The area Mr Boles was to canvass was suburban; hardly the preserve of the
exotics or the young-professional set who have moved in along the Hove seafront.
Holmes Avenue and Elm Drive are a mix of smart 1930s semis, flowering dwarf
cherries, mock-Tudor former council-house terraces, door knockers in the shape
of brass rabbits and rather too many hyacinths. The inhabitants, who dine at
seven, park their modest cars on crazy-paving in front of the house and do not
wear shoes indoors, are nurses and teachers, pensioners and self-employed
landscape gardeners. Nice people. Middle-middle-class English.

And they are totally unfazed by the fact that a parliamentary candidate might be
gay. "Who cares about his gender?" said Kath Ross, endearingly, at Number 139.

"I've only had one person who was bothered," said Dawn (Mr Boles's agent). "The
girls all think he's an absolute dreamboat."

With a "Hi!" here and a "Hi there!" there, the absolute dreamboat stalked ahead
of us, well over 6ft tall and easily outpacing his panting team. "Ooh -aren't
you tall!" squealed an elderly resident.

When nobody answered his knock, Mr Boles flicked his "Sorry you were out"
candidates' calling card through the letterbox; except that it didn't look like
a candidates' calling card and it didn't say "Sorry you were out". It bore a
handwritten "Wish you'd been here" and a casual snapshot of the absolute
dreamboat lolling on the Hove waterfront.

I got to a front door in Elm Drive just as Mr Boles had finished a sympathetic
chat with the single mum within. "Is he married?" she whispered as he strode
off.

"He's gay," I said.

Her face fell. "Tell him: 'No problem'," she said -then giggled, "but tell him
I'm disappointed."

"It makes no difference," was the almost universal response.

"What's that got to do with it?" voters would remark reproachfully. Little
Britain may feature the only gay man in Llanddewi Brefi but here on the Sussex
coast we sought an even more elusive character: the only homophobe in Hove.

I never found him. "We'll vote for Mr Boles," said a keen churchgoing couple.
"He came to our Church. We questioned representatives of all three parties. He
was the best."

"Does his being gay bother you?" I asked. The woman's face tightened. She
deferred to her husband. "We do know about that," he said, "but we think he is
...

abstemious."

Another pause. "I mean, I might want to be a shoplifter..."

"But if you don't steal..." said his wife, helpfully.

"Exactly," he said.

"Your face is everywhere," said one lady to the absolute dreamboat -and it seems
Mr Boles's pre-campaign poster campaign, and his work-experience in a local
school, have made an impact. On the doorstep he is chummy, thoughtful,
frighteningly well-informed (he headed a think-tank) and brisk.

Hove is a marginal seat whose Labour MP has quit. Personal dislike of Tony Blair
is widespread and vituperative but Michael Howard was winning nobody over. To be
elected, Mr Boles needs to be better liked in Hove than his leader. My
impression was that he is.

On the train to Pulborough, in the safe Conservative seat of Arundel & South
Downs, I remembered a remark of Mr Maude's the previous evening. "The thing
about canvassing," he said in tones of sad surprise, "is it makes you realise
how nice most people are."

I thought of this as I joined the Tory candidate, Nick Herbert, and his team. It
hardly seems yesterday that Mr Herbert was parachuted in to Arundel after
Michael Howard's summary execution of the former MP, Howard Flight. "Howard
Flight wrote such a nice letter wishing me well," said Mr Herbert, who until
recently was heading his own think-tank.

"It wasn't Nick's fault," said a comforting Colonel Spackman, a retired Gunner
now commanding Mr Herbert's cavassing team. He added: "Nobody blames Nick."

On the doorstep, "Mustn't take it out on Nick" is the order of the day. Less
ruthless on the stump than Mr Boles, Mr Herbert wears his intellect lightly,
chats unhurriedly and looks and sounds right for a well-heeled but fairly gentle
minded country constituency. As a gay Tory he would, in my day, have had to keep
quiet about it and acquire a labrador. Today it is not an issue.

Not with anyone I spoke to in Coldwaltham, anyway, though there was sometimes a
gulp. But Mr Herbert has that elusive quality; pleasantness, which, together
with a sort of anxious sincerity which is rather rare in politicians on the
make, should serve him well here.

Were Graham and Sue Martin (a two-Rover family, poor things) worried about a
candidate's sexuality? "Not bothered a scrap," Sue said.

I decided to tackle Fred Mountfield, 93, on the awkward issues. Mr Mountfield is
very much on the ball. I asked about the axing of Mr Flight. "It's a pity," he
said, and changed the subject.

I asked again.

"Anyway, we're still blue here," he replied.

I steered conversation to the character of the new candidate. Fred could see
where I was heading, and headed elsewhere. "They say Mr Herbert comes from the
North," he observed.

"Does it worry anyone that he's gay," I said.

"Not really Tory country, Sheffield," said Fred.

I gave up. I could hear Aunt Dolly's voice: "Was that question really necessary,
dear?"

Not in Hove, it seems, and not in Arundel & South Downs, praise be.

* HOVE

MP: Ivor Caplin since 1997, standing down at this election 2001 result:

Labour 19,253

Conservative 16,082

Liberal Democrat 3,823

Green Party 1,369

Socialist Alliance 531

UKIP 358

Liberal 316

Free 196

Independent 60

Majority 3,171

* ARUNDEL & SOUTH DOWNS

MP: Howard Flight since 1997 (deselected last month)

2001 result

Conservative 23,969

Liberal Democrat 10,265

Labour 9,488

UK Independence 2,167

Majority 13,704


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              16 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 28, 2005, Thursday

A revealing letter in election week

BYLINE: by Julian Lloyd Webber on Music

SECTION: Features Pg. 020

LENGTH: 795 words

When I formed the Music Education Consortium with Evelyn Glennie and James
Galway, our idea was to put pressure on the Government to bring back music
education in our schools. We were not expecting to receive begging letters from
head teachers inviting us personally to bankroll projects that we believed were
the responsibility of the Government rather than individual taxpayers.

The latest letter -- sent directly to me -- is from one of the top state schools
in the country. It makes interesting reading in the week before a general
election: "I am writing in the hope that you may be able to help us. Many of our
students have to work in 12 demountable classrooms, originally intended for
temporary accommodation but some of which have been in use for 45 years: they
are cramped, leaky and vulnerable to vermin attack. Poorly ventilated and
without insulation, these 'huts' are cold in winter and stifling in the summer.
In addition, the school, which has a very high reputation for its music, has no
specialist music accommodation -- in fact all music lessons have to take place
in those 'huts'.  "We are committed, therefore, to removing the demountables and
replacing them with a purpose-built Music and Careers Centre, but to do this we
need to find pounds 800,000. We have to raise this sum ourselves as most
government funding is denied to us because of our academic success."

Probably you expect me to launch into a diatribe about how shocking it is that
state schools should be penalised for being too successful. Although this is
true, somehow I can't manage it.

Of course, every school would love an pounds 800,000 purpose-built music block
but this is obviously an impossibility, especially when we are spending billions
of pounds waging war.

At least the present government has started to rectify 30 years of decline in
music education -- although things are far from the extraordinarily rosy (and
extremely selective) picture painted by the composer Howard Goodall on a recent
edition of The South Bank Show.

A whole network of largely unsung organisations are beavering away providing an
enviable infrastructure for music-making in this country. For example, how many
people know about the Prince's Trust's Sound Live scheme
(www.princes-trust.org.uk)? It's a six-week residential course -- only open to
the unemployed -- where participants try out different musical styles, play in a
band with others, and give a performance on the final night.

Then there's the Rehearsal Orchestra, which celebrates its 50th anniversary in
2007. This gives students and graduates from our music colleges the chance to
broaden their repertoire before auditioning for professional orchestras. They
also offer soloists an opportunity to play through concertos before important
concerts or recordings.

In Hereford, Music Pool (www.musicpool.org.uk) provides an extraordinary range
of musical activities for all age groups and, in Somerset, the redoubtable
Jackdaws (www.jackdaws.org.uk) performs a similar service for the community.

Organisations such as these are often the brainchild of one inspirational
individual. They are usually desperately short of funds but our musical
landscape would be far bleaker without them.

Did you see the survey asking politicians what music they would be listening to
while electioneering? Party leaders were strangely absent from the poll, so here
are my suggestions for them in the run-up to May 5:

Tony Blair (Labour): I Don't Know How to Love Him -- from Jesus Christ Superstar

Michael Howard (Conservative): Eine Kleine Nachtmusik -- Mozart

Charles Kennedy (Lib Dems): All I Have to Do Is Dream -- Everly Brothers;

Roger Knapman (UKIP): the theme from Little Britain;

Caroline Lucas (Green Party): I Can Hear the Grass Grow -- the Move;

Robert Kilroy-Silk (Veritas): It's My Party (And I'll Cry If I Want To) --
Lesley Gore

Nick Griffin (BNP): A Whiter Shade of Pale -- Procol Harum Democrats): All I
Have To Do Is Dream - Everly Brothers; Roger Knapman (UKIP): Theme from Little
Britain; Caroline Lucas - (Green Party): I Can HeartThe Grass Grow - Move;
George Galloway (Respect): (All I'm Asking Is For A Little) RESPECT - Aretha
Franklin; Robert Kilroy-Silk (Veritas): It's My Party (And I'll Cry If I Want
To) - Lesley Gore; Nick Griffin (BNP): A Whiter Shade of Pale - Procol Harum
Democrats): All I Have To Do Is Dream - Everly Brothers; Roger Knapman (UKIP):
Theme from Little Britain; Caroline Lucas - (Green Party): I Can HeartThe Grass
Grow - Move; George Galloway (Respect): (All I'm Asking Is For A Little) RESPECT
- Aretha Franklin; Robert Kilroy-Silk (Veritas): It's My Party (And I'll Cry If
I Want To) - Lesley Gore; Nick Griffin (BNP): A Whiter Shade of Pale - Procol
Harum

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              17 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 28, 2005, Thursday

Peers forsake UKIP

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 027

LENGTH: 190 words

SIR -- We write as peers who lost the Conservative whip for suggesting that
those who valued our sovereignty should have lent their vote to UKIP in the
European elections last June.

We find it surreal, when the House of Commons has become largely redundant
because most new laws are made in Brussels, that "Europe" features so little in
the election campaign. UKIP is the only party that is telling the British people
the truth about this great matter; withdrawal from the EU is vital to our
national survival.

Yet eventual withdrawal can happen only if it is sanctioned by a vote in the
Commons, and that vote will be delivered only by a refreshed Conservative Party.
There are therefore a number of marginal constituencies where those who wish to
withdraw from the EU should not allow themselves the luxury of voting for UKIP
if by doing so they deny a seat to a Conservative who will help to form a
realistic policy of disengagement from Brussels.

It would be folly indeed if, in pursuit of withdrawal, such candidates were
prevented from sitting in Parliament.

Lord Pearson of Rannoch

Lord Willoughby de Broke

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              18 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 28, 2005, Thursday

Tories put on guard for dirty tricks campaign

BYLINE: By Celia Walden

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 027

LENGTH: 295 words

A week to go before polling day, and news reaches me that Tory strategists are
increasingly worried about a dirty tricks campaign being orchestrated by
opponents.

Earlier this week, Conservative candidates received two memos -- seen by Spy --
from chief whip David Maclean warning of sting operations. "A candidate was
approached by a man, saying that he couldn't decide whether to vote for us or
UKIP," stated the first.  "He gradually started to use racist language and
arguments, but our colleague didn't budge and ended up suggesting the man should
vote UKIP because we don't want racists voting Conservative. The colleague then
noticed what appeared to be a recording device concealed in the man's clothing."

The second memo warned of an e-mail being sent to candidates, declaring: "I am
looking for a more independent candidate and was wondering which aspect of party
policy you would most disagree with."

Needless to say, Maclean's instructions are to the point: "Since we are all
signed up to party policy as Conservative candidates, there is no need to
venture down this speculative divisive route."

Anyone who publicly lights up a cigarette in New York nowadays is likely to be
lynched. But not, apparently, if you're Sean Penn.

Celebrating the launch of his new film, The Interpreter, at the Museum of Modern
Art last week, the actor calmly produced a fag and began puffing away.  "They've
just spent pounds 200 million refurbishing the museum," fumes my man in the Big
Apple. "And there he was, smoking, right in the middle of the bright, shiny new
gem of the New York museum system." No one, it seems, dared tell the notoriously
fiery Penn to put the thing out. "All too often celebrities think the rules
don't apply to them," adds my source.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              19 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 28, 2005

Election: 2005: What really is going on in the marginals: Labour may be enjoying
a comfortable national lead, but the party's private polls - revealed in
yesterday's Guardian - suggest a much closer contest in the all-important
marginals. With a week to go, David Hencke, Anne Perkins and Kirsty Scott ask
Labour candidates fighting to hold their seats how their campaigns are going

BYLINE: David Hencke, Anne Perkins and Kirsty Scott

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 2071 words


Bexleyheath and Crayford

Lab majority 1,472 (3.6%)

Conservative target 21

Labour candidate Nigel Beard

Issues Immigration, particularly when raised by the Tories and by undecided
voters; the economy

Prospects "I've been getting the same warm reception as in 2001 but it will
depend on who comes out," says Beard. "The big problem last time was the BNP
taking a large slice of a Labour estate vote (they got 1,400 votes). This time
they don't seem to be quite as active"

Braintree

Lab majority 358 (O.7%)

Conservative target 4

Labour candidate Alan Hurst

Issues The economy and interest rates among home owners; council tax among the
elderly. "People are pleased about low mortgage rates but elderly home owners
are worried about council tax"

Prospects "I think we will just hang on," says Hurst. "The battle will be
decided in the villages around Braintree. Some of our canvass returns are better
than in 2001 but it depends whether everone turns out"

Broxtowe

Lab majority 5,873 (12%)

Conservative target 96

Labour candidate Nick Palmer

Issues Iraq; immigration - more among traditional working class voters, just as
Michael Howard is saying

Prospects "Hard to predict, tighter than I'd like," according to Palmer, author
of Palmer's Paradox: the Tories can only win if Labour voters think they can't.
Tory campaign is low-key so far, perhaps because Broxtowe is out of reach unless
the national race gets closer

Dorset South

Lab majority 153 (0.3%)

Conservative target 3

Labour candidate Jim Knight

Issues Immigration and council tax - misleadingly linked in a Tory leaflet that
suggests asylum seekers are a burden on local taxpayers

Prospects Knight says he is "more confident than I've been before". He believes
having a Labour and a Lib Dem MP in previously all-Tory Dorset has established
progressive politics there. He admits some are still "very angry" about Iraq but
hopes they'll vote on other issues

Dover

Lab majority 5,199 (11.6%)

Conservative target 93

Labour candidate Gwyn Prosser

Issues Immigration; Tory threat to privatise Dover docks

Prospects "It all depends on the day. Turnout is everything," says Prosser. He
was very nervous about Blair delivering his big immigration speech in the town,
but it was well received in an area that four years ago was on the edge of
disorder. "People felt overwhelmed when 80 or 100 immigrants got off the boats
every day. Now it's only three or four"

Dumfriesshire, Clydesdale, Tweeddale

Lab majority (notional) 5,254 (12.1%)

Conservative target 97

Labour candidate Sean Marshall

Issues Wind farms and nuclear power; health and the pace of change in the NHS in
Scotland, compared with England

Prospects Privately, Labour officials think the Tories may just sneak this seat
from them. "We suspect if the Tories win any seat in Scotland it will be this
one," said one official

Dunbartonshire East

Lab majority (notional) 2,601 (6.3%)

Lib Dem target 12

Labour candidate John Lyons

Issues Council tax levels; antisocial behaviour; improved employment rates

Prospects "It's tight," says Lyons. "Even among close friends, I just say I will
find out on the day . . . It is good in some areas and we are struggling in
others because of the boundary changes. I think we will be able to get the vote
out, though - I think we have got them enthused"

Dundee East

Lab majority (notional) 496 (1.3%)

SNP target 1

Labour candidate Iain Luke

Issues Council tax levels; merger of Scottish regiments; Iraq war; Tony Blair

Prospects "I'm confident, as anyone can be," says Luke. "On 60% turnout, the
polls say I will be about 600 votes ahead. I think there's a group of Labour
doubtfuls who will be the people who will have the most influence on the day. We
have found some Labour voters who will be voting Lib Dem"

Elmet

Lab majority 4,171 (9.1%)

Conservative target 60

Labour candidate Colin Burgon

Issues Very varied locally in geographically large constituency. Asylum and
crime play strongly in all-white areas

Prospects "Voters are far more alert than last time," said Burgon, a factor he
attributes to the threat of Michael Howard. He is enraged that middle-class
voters might risk letting the Tories in by voting Lib Dem because of the war.
Another constituency where the Tories seem to be spending heavily

Falmouth and Cambourne

Lab majority 4,527 (9.7%)

Tory and Lib Dem target

Labour candidate Candy Atherton

Issues Council tax and some social services problems - and "perennial"
difficulties with South West Water

Prospects "Very positive," says a buoyant Atherton. This is a three-way
marginal, although Atherton claims the Lib Dems, 7,000 votes behind, are too far
off the pace to catch up. She admits the Tory vote is "holding up" despite a
clean-out of the local party after workers were accused of helping Ukip

Hastings and Rye

Lab majority 4,308 (10.5%)

Conservative target 78

Labour candidate Michael Foster

Issues Immigration; regeneration of Hastings

Prospects "I am not overly confident. Lord Ashcroft has spent a fortune in the
seat and the Tory candidate has taken out page-sized advertisements in the local
paper every week on asylum and claiming 400 cases of MRSA in the local hospital
(not true). So I am finding Tory posters going up in some of Hastings' council
estates"

Hornchurch

Lab majority 1,482 (4.2%)

Conservative target 24

Labour candidate John Cryer

Issues Law and order; immigration; occasionally Iraq

Prospects "To be honest I don't know whether I will win," Cryer admits. "All the
canvass returns suggest the Labour vote is hardening and the Tory vote is a
little softer with some people possibly going to vote for Ukip. But it will
depend on the day. Tories have spent a lot because their candidate is funded by
Lord Ashcroft"

Hove

Lab majority 3,171 (7.6%)

Conservative target 48

Labour candidate Celia Barlow

Issues Council tax, new Labour candidate, transport

Prospects Barlow was parachuted in on an all-women shortlist from Chichester
after Labour incumbent Ivor Caplin made a late decision to stand down. "It's
going to be a very tight election," she said. "The majority was 3,000 but it
could well be less through a combination of factors"

Monmouth

Lab majority 384 (0.9%)

Conservative target 7

Labour candidate Huw Edwards

Issues Council tax rebanding; the developing world; immigration

Prospects The result is on a knife edge, but Edwards claims to be quietly
confident. "We've got to get the core vote out. If I can talk to them I can win
them round." He thinks Lib Dem activists want him to win. He voted against the
war, and distinguishes his record from the government's: "I think people support
me who might not like Blair . . . I have credibility"

Milton Keynes North East

Lab majority 1,829 (3.9%)

Conservative target 23

Labour candidate Brian White

Issues Iraq; immigration (a Tory leaflet implicitly links asylum costs with the
council tax)

Prospects "It comes down to whether those Guardian readers decide to give Blair
a bloody nose and wake up with a Conservative government, or vote for me," said
White, who did not vote for the war. He fears Tories are focused on
disillusioning the coalition, mainly Lib Dem tactical voters, that got him in in
1997 and 2001

Northampton South

Lab majority 885 (1.7%)

Conservative target 14

Labour candidate Tony Clarke

Issues Education; health; urban expansion into green belt

Prospects "Either I am going to get returned with a large majority or if our
vote doesn't turn out the electorate will wake up on May 6 to a new Tory MP,"
says Clarke, who is facing 10,000 new voters compared to 2001. "Our canvass
returns are good and we are bit surprised that we have not seen much of the
Tories"

Ochil and South Perthshire

Lab majority (notional) 821 (1.8%)

SNP target 2

Labour candidate Gordon Banks

Issues Rail services; windfarms; health

Prospects "We're making a presumption that it's the Labour vote that's under
threat," says Banks, a businessman, who picks up the mantle from Martin O'Neill.

"I am confident . . .I would be very surprised if the margin of victory was
anything more than 2,000. I would not be surprised if it was 200"

Putney

Lab majority 2,771 (8.1%)

Conservative target 52

Labour candidate Tony Colman

Issues The economy - with voters preferring the Blair-Brown team to the
Howard-Letwin one; immigration; Iraq

Prospects "I am nervous," says Colman. "The Labour vote has certainly hardened
since the beginning of the campaign mainly because of Howard appearing to be the
nasty party . . . It depends on persuading the middle classes to vote for me at
general elections"

Redditch

Lab majority 2,484 (6.7%)

Conservative target 42

Labour candidate Jacqui Smith

Issues Demise of MG Rover (though not as much as Smith expected); a little Iraq;
a little Tony Blair

Prospects Privately, some in Labour are not convinced they will manage to hold
on. Smith says the key will be galvanising Labour support. "It's going to be
absolutely about people turning out to vote on the basis of if you value it,
vote for it," she said

Shipley

Lab majority 1,428 (3.1%)

Conservative target 19

Labour candidate Chris Leslie

Issues House prices, healthcare

Prospects Leslie, junior minister in the Department for Constitutional Affairs,
is worried. He is expecting to lose supporters to the BNP and the Lib Dems.
"This is going to be pretty close," he says. "I cannot say it is going to be a
shoo-in. It would be a few hundred votes at most. It is just not about picking
up the core support. We have to have something else to ensure a win"

Sittingbourne and Sheppey

Lab majority 3,509 (9.3%)

Conservative target 65

Labour candidate Derek Wyatt

Issues The economy - "people trust Gordon Brown". Crime, law and order

Prospects Sticky start but looking brighter, according to Mr Wyatt. "Blair was a
problem, but I haven't heard his name for a while and the switchers seem to be
switching back. The campaign has got much better." Immigration came up a lot at
first but "most people don't like Michael Howard even if they're Tory"

South Ribble

Lab majority 3,802 (8.2%)

Conservative target 55

Labour candidate David Borrow

Issues Tories targeting traditional Labour voters on immigration, asylum and
crime

Prospects "It doesn't feel like a Labour landslide," says Borrow. Tories appear
to be investing heavily, running a major offensive that undermines confidence
despite statistics showing 1% unemployment and more police, and millions of
pounds for local schools. Some evidence of Labour-Tory switching, and others
moving to the Lib Dems over Iraq

Stroud

Lab majority 5,039 (9.1%)

Conservative target 62

Labour candidate David Drew

Issues Investment in public services is a strength; immigration, asylum and the
war are more difficult

Prospects "It's quite messy," says Drew. "Party lines are less clear." He is
worried by the dominance of immigration and the way it is presented as an issue
politicians have ignored, reinforcing the impression that they don't listen to
voters. Drew is another marginal MP who opposed the war

Welwyn Hatfield

Lab majority 1,196 (2.8%)

Conservative target 18

Labour candidate Melanie Johnson

Issues Interest rates and the economy; Iraq still causes concern

Prospects In 2001, the Tories bit deep into Johnson's majority and the health
minister thinks it will be "very tight" this time. She will appeal to Lib Dems
to "lend" their support to keep the Tory out. She worries that voters will treat
the election as a referendum on the past, not a choice for the future. Turnout
is crucial

The Wrekin

Lab majority 3,857 (8.6%)

Conservative target 58

Labour candidate Peter Bradley

Issues The economy - tax credits and pensioner credits; immigration

Prospects "The atmosphere is rather like 1992 in reverse," says Bradley. "Then
people grumbled about the Tories in the pubs, but didn't see Mr Kinnock in
Downing Street or believe it was in their wider interest to vote Labour. Now
they might grumble about Labour, but they don't see Mr Howard in No 10 and think
it is in their wider interest to vote Labour"


LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              20 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 28, 2005

HOW TO FIGURE OUT TONY'S EXIT CODE

BYLINE: Sergei Platt

SECTION: SCOTCHA; OPINION

LENGTH: 439 words


IT'S accepted by those in the know that if TONY BLAIR doesn't give up the No10
job in the next Parliament, GORDON BROWN will kill him with his bare hands.

So when will Blair chuck it? As this is Scotcha No 1,000, my head is dizzy with
figures and ciphers, so let's apply a Da Vinci Code-style theory to the
succession.

Consider an exit date of May 6, 2007, Blair's 54th birthday. That would give him
731 more days in power from the result tomorrow week.

The digits add up to 11, and it would leave exactly 11 years to Blair's pension.

The digits of the sixth of the fifth also add up to 11. Brown would be then be
56, ditto. He was first elected for Dunfermline East in '83 and was appointed
Shadow Chancellor in '92 - two further 11s.

That weekend would also mark the 11th year that Brown had been kept next door at
No 11. What better date for elevenses with Gordon - at No 10. Sorted.

I SEE Plaid Cymru chief ELFYN LLYWD and ALEX SALMOND have once again presented a
joint nat front.

That's got to be the classic allure of an Elfyn face and a goblin mouth.

AND that reminds me just what this campaign is missing. Bring back FFION HAGUE.

REMINDS me of a classic misprint in a paper down south, where a shag-happy civic
leader was pictured in a bookshop signing copies of a rotten thriller he'd
written.

The headline was meant to say MAYOR'S PEN IS BUSIEST IN TOWN. Unhappily, the
second and third words ran together.

WANT to escape the election next Thursday? Four channels have results all
through the night, but Channel 4 breaks it up at 2am with mucky Spanish film The
Flower Of My Secret, which, if I remember rightly, would be better titled The
Secret Of My Flower.

IT'S such a lottery whether you get the cops who like a lark or the po-faced
ones. It's fair to assume it was the latter who fined the driver in a Darth
Vader costume who had two Star Wars Stormtroopers in the back of his Nissan
Almera.

Mind you, his opening line on being hauled over: "I am the Dark Lord of the
Sith" couldn't have helped their mood.

MUST have been an awkward moment at Buckingham Palace yesterday when chinless
actress ANNA MASSEY received an award from the QUEEN.

She's one of those who have been "romantically linked" with PRINCE PHILIP.

HELLO, hello, I've been a bit hard on Edinburgh SW UKIP candidate BILLY BOYS.
The landscape gardener is a brainbox who is formally DOCTOR Billy Boys.

And finally...CRACKER is back after 10 years. Wonder if ROBBIE COLTRANE will get
to crack Penhaligon this time? Maybe if he offers to go underneath?

SERGEI PLATT

s.platt the-sun.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              21 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2005, Thursday

Legacy of Iraq war could undo Straw in battle for Blackburn's Muslim vote

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Home news; 33

LENGTH: 677 words


Jack Straw fought two wars in the last Parliament, but neither was as personal
as the battle for Blackburn. For the Foreign Secretary has a fight on his hands
to keep his seat. Some 25,000 of his constituents are Asian Muslims, many of
whom were against the Iraq war.

The Tories are fielding an Asian Muslim candidate; the former ambassador to
Uzbekistan, sacked for his forthright views, is standing as an independent;
there is an antiwar Lib Dem, and a group of radical Muslims running an
anti-Straw campaign.

Although the Foreign Secretary has a majority of 9,249, it would take just a
fifth of the Muslim population to defect to the Tories for him to lose. But the
fragmented nature of the anti-Straw candidates may prove his salvation.

The Conservatives have selected Imtiaz Ameen, a mild-mannered 33-year-old
councillor from Kirklees, who says that he is opposed to the war. In a nice
twist to the notorious "cricket test", local Tory activists claim to be more
worried that he is a Yorkshireman not a Lancastrian, than about the colour of
his skin.

But, at a public meeting in the town hall, there are only five Asians, all
sitting together at the back.

Idris Ali, 34, a businessman, says: "When our fathers came in to work as mill
workers, they were affiliated to Labour because of the unions. But we who were
born here see things differently. I feel the Conservative Party have more in
common with Muslims."

But who are the young Muslims going to vote for? The Tories do not have a free
run either. There is the Lib Dem, Tony Melia, whose party came a poor third in
2001, and Craig Murray, the former ambassador to Uzbekistan.

Mr Murray decided to stand after talking to Andrew Gilligan, the former BBC
reporter whose report on the Iraq dossier led to the David Kelly affair. "By
ejecting the Foreign Secretary from a rock-solid Labour seat, people can send a
message about their rejection of Labour's foreign policy."

He is concerned about Britain's accepting intelligence extracted by torture in
other countries. But he has been shocked by Blackburn's racism and reckons that
many white former Tory voters will defect to the BNP because they do not want to
vote for an Asian candidate.

In Asda, Mr Straw retreats from the rain to talk to shoppers. He writes down
every complainant's name and address -each will receive a handwritten letter
within days.

There is not much evidence of Asians losing faith with Labour. Shaheda Rashid,
32, says: "Most of the community are voting Labour. Labour has always helped
ethnic minorities."

Shamsooddin and Fatema Patel, young parents, agree.

"Labour do more for the community. We've got a SureStart nursery now." And
Mohammed Bilal, a shop assistant, says: "Like Robin Cook said, Tony lied, but
you should still vote Labour because they've done a lot of good work."

Up in Bank Top, a racially mixed ward with sloping streets of terraced houses,
you can see the work done by the local Labour council. The area looks almost
prosperous. Mohammed Hussain, 27, runs the youth forum, which brings white and
Asian teenagers together to play football.

"I think we should concentrate more on local issues," he says. "Look at what
they've done for us round here. This area's going to be really nice."

And even a white, working-class voter obsessed with immigration backs Labour.
Joe Varey, 60, accosts Mr Straw: "You are letting everybody into this country
and giving them everything, Jack. You don't give a shag about the old people."
So will he vote Tory instead? "No, I wouldn't dream of voting against Labour. I
don't want the other buggers back in."

It is that sentiment, and the split opposition, that will probably save Mr
Straw.

BLACKBURN

MP: Jack Straw since 1979

2001 result: Lab 21,808; C 12,559; Lib Dem 3,264; UKIP 1,185; Independent 577;
Soc Lab Party 559; Socialist 532; majority 9,249

OTHER CANDIDATES

Imtiaz Ameen (C); Dorothy Baxter (UKIP); Graham Carter (Green); Nicholas Holt
(BNP); Tony Melia (Lib Dem); Craig Murray (Ind)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              22 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2005, Thursday

A swing of 9% lands Edinburgh top prize

BYLINE: Magnus Linklater

SECTION: Home news; 33

LENGTH: 397 words


There will be mixed feelings among Scottish Tories as they examine their chances
of toppling one of Labour's big guns in Scotland -Alistair Darling, the
Transport Secretary -in Edinburgh South West.

On the one hand, a notional swing of 9 per cent would tilt it in their favour
and give them one of the great prizes of the election. On the other hand, how
much better their prospects would have been if the boundaries had remained the
same as last time, and they were fighting the old Edinburgh Pentlands
constituency as it once was.

This was the seat that Sir Malcolm Rifkind lost in 1997, and stuck with bravely
in 2001, failing to win it back by the tantalising margin of 1,742 votes. Since
then, it has swung further to the Tories, handing David McLetchie, the
Conservative leader in Scotland, a first-past-the-post victory at the Holyrood
elections in 2003.

Now it has been enlarged, like most of the Scottish constituencies, losing two
safe wards to the neighbouring seat of Edinburgh South, and taking on solid
inner-city Labour territory. Gordon Buchan, a 30-year-old consulting engineer
who is the Tory candidate, is optimistic. "I think everyone realises this is a
straight two-horse race, and if they want to unseat Labour, then there is only
way to do it, by voting Conservative," he says.

Mr Darling said: "Edinburgh is traditionally a Tory city but we've been fighting
it very hard and we've got a lot of support. You take nothing for granted in
Edinburgh. Turnout will be the key thing. A lot of effort has gone into it. The
number one issue...is the economy but I've encountered a visceral dislike of
Michael Howard."

Last time around, the Scottish Nationalists and the Liberal Democrats were well
behind, sharing roughly equal support. There is little evidence that they will
improve on this position. Scotland, as a four-party nation, has a long tradition
of tactical voting. There are still many seats where voting Tory goes so firmly
against the grain that it is unthinkable. Edinburgh South West may have changed
- but not that much.

EDINBURGH SOUTH WEST

New constituency: notional 2001 election result Labour win, majority 7,951

2005 CANDIDATES

John Blair-Fish (Green); William Boys (UKIP) ; Gordon Buchan (C); Simon Clark
(Lib Dem); Alistair Darling (Lab): Nick Elliott-Cannon (SNP): Pat Smith Scottish
(Socialist Party)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              23 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 28, 2005, Thursday

New map of Edinburgh could tilt the balance toward Darling of New Labour

BYLINE: Magnus Linklater

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 32

LENGTH: 698 words


THERE will be mixed feelings among Scottish Conservatives as they examine their
chances of toppling one of Labour's big guns in Scotland -Alistair Darling, the
Transport Secretary -in Edinburgh South West. On the one hand, a notional swing
of 9 per cent would tilt it in their favour and hand them one of the great
prizes of the election. On the other hand, how much better their prospects would
have been if the boundaries had remained the same as last time, and they were
fighting the old Edinburgh Pentlands constituency as it once was.

This was the seat that Sir Malcolm Rifkind lost in 1997 and stuck with bravely
in 2001, failing to win it back by the tantalising margin of 1,742 votes. Since
then, it has swung further to the Tories, handing David McLetchie, the
Conservative leader in Scotland, a first-past-the-post victory at the Holyrood
elections in 2003.

Now, however, it has been enlarged, like most of the Scottish constituencies,
losing two safe wards to the neighbouring seat of Edinburgh South and taking on
some fairly solid inner city Labour territory. The Tory candidate, Gordon
Buchan, a 30-year-old engineering consultant, remains optimistic, however. This
is his fourth campaign and he has been working hard in council house areas
-places like Dalry, Wester Hailes and Sighthill.

"I think everyone realises this is a straight two-horse race and if they want to
unseat Labour, then there is only way to do it -by voting Conservative. I am
meeting a lot of people who tell me it's time for a change," he says.

He points to the way that Labour have brought in some heavyweight campaigners -
Gordon Brown twice, Tony Blair and John Prescott -to suggest they are worried
about the result. Issues such as saving the Scottish regiments (there are two
army barracks in the constituency) may influence the outcome and he is surprised
at how often immigration crops up in an area with a relatively small ethnic
population.

Behind Mr Darling's calm and impassive exterior lurks, we are told, an anxious
man who is taken to worrying whether his support is as solid as his aides tell
him.

Because he has had to head up the campaign in Scotland as a whole, he has not
been able to spend as much time in the constituency as he might have liked. That
is not, however, the impression he conveys himself.

"My view is that it is a marginal seat -it's very tight," he said. "Both we and
the Tories have targeted it as a marginal. The turnout will make all the
difference. Edinburgh is traditionally a Tory city but we've been fighting it
very hard and we've got a lot of support. You take nothing for granted in
Edinburgh.

Turnout will be the key thing. A lot of effort has gone into it. The number one
issue I have come across is the economy but I've encountered a visceral dislike
of Michael Howard."

He conceded that there might well be tactical voting, with the Liberal Democrats
picking up some support, but he thought that the Nationalist vote was
"crumbling" and that Mr Howard's decision to attack Mr Blair personally was
back-firing.

"People simply don't like that kind of language," he said.

Last time around the Nationalists and the Lib Dems were well behind, sharing
roughly equal support. There is little evidence that they will improve
significantly on this position, but whether their supporters will bear out Mr
Buchan's prediction and improve the Tory prospects is doubtful. Scotland, as a
four-party nation, has a long tradition of tactical voting. On the other hand,
tactics can work both ways. There are still many Scottish seats where voting
Tory goes so firmly against the grain that it is unthinkable. Edinburgh South
West may have changed -but not that much.

EDINBURGH SOUTH WEST

New constituency, made up of 12 wards from old Pentlands and Central seats. Four
strongly Tory and the rest are Labour-held and include council estates such as
Sighthill. Notional 2001 election result Labour win, majority 7,951

2005 CANDIDATES

John Blair-Fish (Green); William Boys (UKIP) ; Gordon Buchan (C); Simon Clark
(Lib Dem); Alistair Darling (Lab): Nick Elliott-Cannon (SNP): Pat Smith
(Scottish Socialist Party)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              24 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 27, 2005

I don't think my husband digs me at all

BYLINE: PETERBOROUGH

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 68

LENGTH: 957 words


NOW, I never seem to be in the right place at the right time, but never has this
been more apparent than on a day off when I returned from a swim to find my
husband gardening.

'How about a bit of sex?' I asked, positively bursting out of my bikini.

'What?' he answered, his back to me at the time. I would have got the same
reaction if I had asked him to dig me some carrots for dinner.

'Sex,' I shouted. He got out his measuring stick from his pocket and slowly
measured out the exact distance between the rows of potatoes.

Having done this, he gazed skywards for a full half-minute, contemplating.

He stood up, stamped the heavy clods of soil from his boots, brushed his knees
then, having rubbed his palms against each other to rid them of excess earth,
had a swig of tea from a chipped enamel mug.

With a half-turn in my direction, he reckoned he'd be in in about two hours.

My body slunk back into its bikini, deflated.

Now if I'd had another woman to contend with I'd know just what to do.

But a potato? Well, that's unfair competition. Perhaps if I write to Gardeners'
Question Time they might suggest that if I become a cabbage we'll have more in
common.

Christine Bress, Birchington, Kent.

One-line philosophers

I'VE still got it, but nobody wants to see it.

THE person who pays 100 per cent upfront is the customer soonest neglected.

Roger Dembina, Bushey, Herts.

Albert Howard, Dereham, Norfolk.

ALL work and no play makes Jack hell to live with.

Val Fish, Peterborough.

Out of the mouths of babes

AFTER staying overnight at our daughter's house, my husband asked our
granddaughter, Mollie: 'Where's Daddy?' Sevenyearold Mollie replied: 'He's gone
to work, Grandad.' 'He must have left very early,' my husband commented.

'Is he in a seminar today?' After a short pause, Mollie replied: 'No, Grandad,
he's wearing a suit.' Mrs C.A. Nottage, Chatteris, Cambridgeshire.

MY GRANDSON Cameron, aged four, went orienteering with his family to Brimham
Rocks. 'If there weren't any rocks here, it would just be called Brimham,' he
observed.

Ann Doyle, York.

I WAS walking over Maidenhead bridge with my three-year-old daughter.

Looking down at the Thames below, she said: 'Daddy, that's a big bath.' R.

Quilter, Slough, Berks.

Your jokes

A PORTLY bishop in full regalia saw an admiral in full uniform on the railway
station platform.

Recognising him as an old schoolfriend, the bishop asked: 'I say, porter, what
time is the next train due?' Recognising the bishop, but not letting on, the
admiral replied: 'In about ten minutes' time, but should Madam be travelling in
your condition?' M. J. Leftley, Laindon, Essex.

Wordy wise

WOEMAN - she's giving me grief, dude.

Sally Jordan-Kidd, Peterborough.

PLUTONIC - just good friends have explosive affair.

Barry Sheffield, Batley, West Yorks.

INDICAUTION - a take care sign.

Peter Gross, Birmingham.

BEEHIND - a sting in the tail.

Chas Downes, Goudhurst, Kent.

BANNANAS - ridiculous diet excluding fruit.

Peter Butler, Billingshurst, West Sussex.

Today's Poem

MANIFESTO We're the Opposition Party, not Socialist, not Tory, Not Green, not
LiberalDemocrat, that's quite another story.

They all come out with policiesas fast as they can blink, We just say 'No' to
everything, so we don't have to think.

They want to build a bypass 'cause the traffic's getting thicker, And congestion
bringspollution that makeseverybody sicker.

But extra roads mean extra cars, I'm sure it must be true, So we'll go on
protesting, no matter what they do.

They want to put CCTV in theHigh Street in our town, Broken windows and graffiti
get 'most everybody down.

But while they're filming vandals they'll be filming you and me, So we'll oppose
the cameras; they infringe our liberty.

We need more electricity, but how should it be made?

It mustn't be atomic! No,we're all far too afraid.

And fossil fuels make acid rainand lots of CO2, But we'll still oppose the
windfarm, no matter what they do.

I went and bought a mobilephone, the very latest word, But I'm a bit uneasy, for
of perils I have heard.

Still, we stopped the new transmitter.The ambulance can't get through, But masts
cause radiation.I'm sure it must be true.

They want to dose with fluoridethe water in my tap.

The nation's teeth are falling out from eating piles of, um, junk-food.

But fluoride is a poison andpollutes you through and through, I read it on the
internet.I'm sure it must be true.

They say that smoking's bad for you, and try to put us off, But I know it's
nothing serious.

It's just a little cough.

A hundred thousand deaths a year? I'm sure that can't be true, So I'll just go
on smoking,no matter what they do.

We don't like politicians - Michael Howard's lot orTony's.

We think the House ofCommons is a talking shopfor phoneys.

They think they've got the answer, try to stuff it down your throat.

The difference is, we know we're right.That's why we never vote.

We're the Opposition Party, not UKIP, not BNP.

No, we're opposed to everything. It's simple as can be.

So let's take all their policiesand flush them down the sink.

We just say 'No' to everything, and we don't need to think.

Paul Hansford, Stroud, Glos.

... and limerick

His girlfriend's a regular lookerBut Rooney's debauchery shook 'er, So experts
now reckon That rugby might beckon: Wayne's happiest next to a hooker!

Paul Weston, Brighton.

THIS ENGLAND

SPOTTED on Ceefax: 'Bolton manager Sam Allardyce has said he is interested in
singing Alan Stubbs and Neil Lennon as summer begins.' Zig Malendewicz,
Waterlooville, Hants.

LOAD-DATE: April 28, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              25 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 27, 2005

Election 2005: 8 days to go

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 332 words


Rover saviour

Oliver Letwin keeps very quiet about his part in planning the poll tax and Tony
Blair hardly ever mentions the Dome, so three cheers for the Lib Dems' real
alternative for Birmingham Yardley, John Hemming.

In his election address he proudly boasts (four times, in fact) how he saved MG
Rover. Mr Hemming set up the Phoenix Consortium in 2000. Perhaps not the most
sensitive thing to be shouting about.

Ukip silenced

The Ukip candidate for Halesowen and Rowley Regis, Nikki Sinclaire, was removed
from a meeting on gay issues after being excluded from a panel. Five police
officers arrested her and dragged her out of Birmingham's Hippodrome Theatre as
she shouted: "I'm a lesbian, yet I'm being discriminated against by my own
community."

Dark arts

Spotted heading for Tory HQ: Mark Textor, the Aussie pollster sharpening the
party's campaign in target seats. A business partner of Tory strategist Lynton
Crosby, he sends shivers down opponents' spines: in Australia he was accused of
encouraging voters to switch sides by spreading stories about opponents.

Small talk

Charles Kennedy gave a unique insight into his personal habits during the ad
break of ITV's Ask The Leader. Jonathan Dimbleby recalled Enoch Powell had said
that his performances were given a lift if he stopped himself going to the loo.
Mr Kennedy replied: "The last thing I always do before a public performance is
visit the you-know-what."

Alors! C'est le premier

The prime minister was in Bishops Park College, Clacton-on-Sea, yesterday having
a go teaching French. He took pupils through the French words for animals.

Caught out

In Poole, Dorset, an attempt by the Daily Mail to highlight flaws in postal
voting led to a reporter being arrested on conspiracy to defraud by making a
fraudulent voting application. He was given police bail last Thursday after a
night in custody. The application was in the name of Gus Trobevo - an anagram of
Bogus Voter.


LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              26 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 27, 2005, Wednesday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: THE SEE-SAW SEAT IN WHICH A HANDFUL HOLDS SWAY WHERE
LOCAL ISSUES MAY LEAD TO NATIONAL SUCCESS

BYLINE: BY IAN HERBERT NORTH OF ENGLAND CORRESPONDENT

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 1768 words

HIGHLIGHT:
The parliamentary constituency of Cheadle, Cheshire, where the Tories and Lib
Dems are trying to woo an estimated 6,000 Labour voters WARREN SMITH; Liberal
Democrat MP Patsy Calton, left, holds Cheadle by 33 votes from the Conservative
Stephen Day JON SUPER/GETTY IMAGES


'Tories ... no ... Liberals ... no ... Tories.' Over a glass of Australian
chardonnay at the Beluga tapas bar in Bramhall, south Manchester, Jackie Honey,
a businesswoman, is grappling with the question of which political party holds
her local parliamentary seat of Cheadle in Cheshire.

Her hesitancy may have something to do with the fact that while the nation last
went to the polls, on 7 June 2001, Ms Honey, a 50-year-old market research
consultant, was busy getting married. But it is also a reflection of how little
divides the two protagonists in Cheadle. Patsy Calton (Liberal Democrat) and
Stephen Day (Conservative) have already battled it out twice over the last eight
years and were divided by just 33 votes back in 2001 " the most slender margin
in the entire election.

The winner on that occasion was the Liberal Democrat, Mrs Calton having whittled
down Mr Day's majority from 15,000 in 1992 to 3,100 in 1997, before finally
unseating him.

With Mr Day needing just a 0.1 per cent swing to regain the seat, every vote
counts and every detail matters. The minor matter of who has most billboards
takes on a new significance when you're working the tightest constituency in the
country" and Mr Day seems to be edging it. A rough count by The Independent had
him 20-18 to the good in one sample square mile of Cheadle Hulme, a residential
area that the Liberal Democrats must dominate if they are to retain the seat.

As if things weren't difficult enough, Mrs Calton is likely to miss the entire
campaign as she is the midst of treatment for breast cancer and has been told by
doctors to avoid any risk of infection. She is not looking for the sympathy
vote; there is no mention of the illness on her campaign leaflets despite the
recurrence of the disease, after eight years in remission, keeping her away from
Westminster for much of this year. 'It's infuriating " but the voters know what
I've achieved,' she said.

Mr Day, a Eurosceptic, likes to be remembered for his private members' Bill
introducing car seatbelts for children and his work for those caught up in the
Barlow Clowes collapse in the early 1990s. He is delighted to have met a
constituent who, much like Jackie Honey, did not seem aware of the bad news
about 2001. 'He introduced me to his friend as his local MP,' said Mr Day,
drawing on a cigar. The Tory candidate has taken this as a positive sign. His
literature celebrates his achievements as 'the best MP we've ever had', more
than his work in Cheadle during the years since he was ditched. The inference,
reinforced by the Tories' decision to stick with their losing candidate, is that
2001 was an aberration.

But while Mr Day stumbles over boxes in the Conservative Association's pokey
office, Mrs Calton's canvassing machine is purring along. Dozens of enthusiasts
of advanced years are licking address labels in the spacious parish rooms
requisitioned near campaign HQ.

There's a slightly Machiavellian strain to their campaign, too: leaflets
'disguised' to appeal to Labour voters explain that a vote for party, which
secured only 6,000 last time, is a vote lost.

Dirty tricks, says Martin Miller, the Labour candidate. The effort to convert
the vital 6,000 Labour voters is a central aim for both Tories and Liberal
Democrats.

Mrs Calton's has a reputation as a formidable local campaigner; her appeal is
even recognised by avowed Tory voters such as Evelyn Wilson, 55, retired from
her job at a Manchester stockbrokers and preparing to enter the fray with 30
others in a bridge drive at Bramhall Village Club. 'I can't say I'm his biggest
fan,' she says of the Tory candidate, watching her playing partner Margaret
McDermott pull a face at the mention of Mr Day. 'Patsy Calton is much nicer,
really.

'She really went to town on the post offices,' continues Mrs Wilson, who is
evidently in need of some Tory canvassing before Mrs Calton's majority goes up
to 34. Her theme is the closure of post offices in Bramhall and Cheadle Hulme,
more important to voters here than immigration, income tax or Iraq " none of
which warrants a mention.

Back at the Belugas tapas bar, two young mothers-to-be are enthusing about Mrs
Calton's work on the planned A555 south-east Manchester relief road, to link the
M60 at Bredbury and the A6 at Hazel Grove. 'You only have to look out there to
see we need it,' said Sarah Wallace, 30, an events and exhibitions organiser,
glancing towards the traffic jam outside.

Mr Day would disagree, since the go-ahead for the road has not yet been granted
and he considers himself to be its true champion ('We will build the bypass,'
thunders his literature). But when it comes to local issues, Mrs Calton seems to
get the credit. She's earned it after winning back a $ 1m bonus for the local
Stepping Hill Hospital which had been withdrawn by the Department of Health. But
she is also likely to benefit from her party's tightening grip on the local
political infrastructure in south Manchester, which was strengthened when
control of Stockport council was established in 1999 and was subsequently
cemented with surrounding parliamentary seats. As well as Cheadle, the Liberal
Democrats hold neighbouring Hazel Grove and have Manchester Withington in their
sights.

The takeover in south Manchester typifies the growing potency of the Liberal
Democrats as a political force, says Tony Travers of the London School of
Economics. 'They are very, very good at local, pavement politics and it has been
an essential part of their long-term strategy for a number of years to build
their way into local government, then get the chance to win the parliamentary
seat,' he said. 'It has paid huge dividends and Cheadle is a classic example.'

The party assumes the position left when one of the old political beasts has
died out " the Labour Party in Cheadle and the Conservatives in cities such as
Newcastle and Liverpool which have no councillors left and minimal political
infrastructure around which to regroup.

Another element of this long Liberal Democrat tradition is to squeak into
parliamentary seats, then consolidate the party's grip on them. Mark Oaten's
two-vote majority in Winchester in 1997 makes Patsy Calton's seem like a
landslide. But he strengthened it to a 21,000 vote majority in a by-election six
months later (held after the initial result had been challenged). Adrian
Sanders' 12-vote majority in Torbay in 1997 has strengthened to 6,700 votes. The
same applies to Sir Menzies Campbell's Fife North East majority (3,300 in 1992;
around 10,000 ever since).

Of course, the trend is not universal. Andrew Turner won back the Isle of Wight
for the Tories in 2001 after Peter Brand pinched it for the Liberal Democrats in
1997. But it is no coincidence that the party has strengthened its hold in
places where they dominate the local council " Torbay, Southwark and Winchester.

The Liberal Democrats have made no secret of their ambition to progress from
municipal to parliamentary success in other areas of northern England where the
Conservative infrastructure has been swept away.

Liverpool Wavertree, where they reduced the majority of the Labour MP Jane
Kennedy from 19,000 in 1997 to 12,000 in 2001 is now on its hit list, more than
five years after the party ousted Labour from the town hall.

The party's communications director, Lord Rennard, who was born and educated in
the city, cherishes the idea of loosening Labour's near monopoly on its
parliamentary seats.

The Liberal Democrats' municipal control has its drawbacks in Cheadle, where
Hilary Stephenson, Lord Rennard's deputy, is masterminding the campaign.

The council is held responsible for allowing developers in Bramhall to
compensate for a lack of land by knocking down some of the village's large
Edwardian houses " properties which date back to when the new railway line from
Manchester first attracted commuters " and erecting apartments in their place.

Nicola Fisher, who has one child and has another on the way, is one of those
upset by the development. 'We were told it was a conservation area when we moved
in but so much for that,' she said. Ms Fisher is one of the vital 6,000 Labour
voters that both the Tories and the Liberal Democrats are desperate to win over.

The Conservatives will be helped by their proposals for free local car parking,
another cause for agitation among anxious Liberal Democrats. 'We don't know yet
if the Greens will field a candidate. That could split the vote,' fretted one
activist.

With just over a week to go until polling day, Cheadle could hardly be more
finely balanced. Jackie Honey agrees 'there's not much between them' but local
Liberal Democrats can only hope that the outcome of 7 June 2001 will prove more
enduring than it did for Ms Honey. Her marriage has not survived.

Cheadle: the country's most marginal seat

n SITTING MP

Patsy Calton

Liberal Democrat

(majority 33)

n RESULTS

2001 result

Lib Dem 18,477 (42.4%)

Con 18,444 (42.3%)

Lab 6,086 (14%)

UKIP 599 (1.4%)

European Election 1999

Con 43.8%

Lab 16.9%

Lib Dem 21.8%

n HISTORY

Cheadle came to national attention in 1966 when Michael Winstanley won the seat
for the Liberals, overturning a Conservative majority of nearly 9,000. In 1970
Dr Winstanley lost the seat to Tom Normanton, the Conservative candidate. In
2001, Patsy Calton beat the

sitting Tory MP Stephen Day at her third attempt. Her majority of 33 is now the
smallest in the country.

n SOCIAL PROFILE

One of the most middle-class and middle-aged constituencies in the country. Has
the highest proportion of professional and managerial workers north of Watford,
the highest proportion of owner-occupiers and the highest proportion of detached
housing of any seat in the north of England. The electorate has several
top-performing schools such as the independent Cheadle Hulme School. There is
some light industry and office-based employment, but the majority commute to
work in the financial and service sectors of Manchester. Although suffering
large-scale redundancies, British Aerospace has a large development in Cheadle
Heath. Manchester airport, two miles to the south-west is another major
contributor to the economy.

n ISSUES

Transport tops the agenda. One in three people in Cheadle cites road congestion
as the area's biggest problem. The Stockport Chamber of Commerce also blames the
area's congested road system for hampering

economic growth. A second runway at Manchester airport makes the need for a
bypass even more necessary.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              27 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 27, 2005, Wednesday

MEPS' FIXED SALARIES COULD END EXPENSES ROW

BYLINE: BY STEPHEN CASTLE IN BRUSSELS

SECTION: First Edition; FOREIGN NEWS; Pg. 21

LENGTH: 321 words


A new attempt has been made to end almost two decades of wrangling over MEPs'
pay and their legendarily generous expenses.

Under the proposals Euro-MPs would sacrifice a notorious system in which they do
not need to submit receipts for travelling expenses. In exchange, all MEPs would
be paid a salary of EUR7,000 (£4,800) a month.

Previous reform efforts have foundered, leaving the European Parliament with a
system where its members are paid the same as parliamentarians in their own
countries. Differences widened dramatically last year when 10, mainly former
communist countries, joined the EU.

As a result, the parliament's 87 Italian MEPs who earn EUR12,000 a month,
receive four times the income of Spanish members and about 10 times more than
the Baltic states' members.

Usually, MEPs at the bottom of the earnings scale have used the expenses system
to supplement their salaries. Hence the need for an agreed salary.

Last year, a bid to solve the problem failed when the EU foreign ministers
rejected a salary of EUR8,600 after Germany, France, Sweden and Austria said
that would mean an unacceptable pay rise for MEPs at a time of belt- tightening
in national capitals.

Five issues remain outstanding, including pension and health contributions and
no decision was expected last night, partly because several foreign ministers
did not attend yesterday's meeting in Luxembourg. Debate on a single salary
dates back to 1986, but there is optimism public pressure is working.

Meanwhile, Nigel Farage, an MEP for the UK Independence Party, threatened to
table a motion of censure against the European Commission president, Jose Manuel
Barroso, in a row over conflict of interest.

Last week Mr Barroso admitted holidaying last August, before he took up his
post, on a boat belonging to the Greek shipping magnate, Spiro Latsis. But there
is no prospect of a censure motion succeeding.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              28 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 27, 2005

HOWARD WILL GET BLUES IN DEFEAT

BYLINE: Sergei Platt

SECTION: SCOTCHA; OPINION

LENGTH: 418 words


HERE is the news, from the Gnome Service of the BBC. So MICHAEL HOWARD reckons
he's 2-0 down at half-time in the election. Always remember you never see
bookies bumming a fag, and they reckon the Blues are the equivalent of 4-0 down
in the gnome leg with the away leg to come.

WHAT'S in a gnome? My favourites so far among candidates include the impossibly
cool lounge lizard LUKE IVORY (SSP - Caithness, Sutherland, Easter Ross), RHONDA
REEKIE (Green - Aberdeen South) and the Edinburgh SW UKIP hopeful, and I kid you
not, BILLY BOYS.

I FLIRT with gnome rule for Scotland now and again but go off it when I look who
the Cabinet would be.

In particular, I think: That woman will never make a Gnome Secretary.

ODD e-Bay offer of the week - A Topless Picture Of My Mum - "Basicly U get 1 pic
of me mam with her breasts out that I found on the gnome computer she gave me".

I closed it down with the bidding at 99p. At least the wee sh*te wasn't selling
his granny.

IF ROBERT DOWNEY Jnr thought our LORRAINE KELLY's millennium gnomes were
spectacular, he should have seen her belly-dancing during BBC Three's coverage
of Eurovision 2004 in Turkey.

The air disturbance was like the passing of a B52. I reminded her of this the
other day and she confessed she got "carried away". Several passers-by nearly
were.

I'M saddened to hear ex-High Road lady laird dish SHONAGH PRICE is working in
the museum on Chamber Street in Edinburgh, teaching kids about Vikings and such.

It's honest work, but couldn't River City find her a gnome as a posh hooker
fallen on hard times?

TRAGI-COMIC true tale from a Scots hospital. Dutiful husband phones to check on
wife's condition. Nurse offers to take phone to her bedside. Husband overhears
nurse telling patient she's got her husband calling from gnome. Caller overhears
shocked voice saying: "It can't be..." Then trembling voice comes on phone:
"Hullo?" Caller says: "Sorry - she's got the wrong Jean." "Thank Christ," says
patient. "Ma man's been deid ten year."

IRONIC news from Hamburg, where a thousand toads have exploded in the same city
parks where the Abwehr used to frog-march gnome from Holland.

THE new POPE's gnome town is the Bavarian beauty spot of Traunstein, meaning
"touching stone", which is of course a mortal sin.

And finally...THE current Real Madrid gnomepage claims DAVID BECKHAM "likes
tattoos and enjoys trying new models in his spare time." Indeed he does.

SERGEI PLATT

s.platt the-sun.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: May 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              29 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 27, 2005, Wednesday

Tangled web

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein

SECTION: Features; Times2; 2

LENGTH: 106 words


The whoshouldyouvotefor.com website has been very popular during this election,
with so many people wanting to use it that it can take ages to get online.

Sadly, it does not live up to its promise. It informed me that I should vote
UKIP.

It did the same for a pretty left-wing friend of mine. It gives this advice
because it fails to distinguish between opposition to the euro and the new
European constitution (my view) and support for leaving the EU (the UKIP's).

This is a pretty fundamental flaw and despite asking for comments they seem to
be in no mood to correct it.

I wouldn't bother if I were you.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              30 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 27, 2005, Wednesday

After 20 years, it's now or never

BYLINE: David Charter

SECTION: Home news; 31

LENGTH: 619 words


The retirement of a popular Labour MP has given great hope to the Lib Dems in a
marginal seat, David Charter reports

Estelle Morris loves her old constituency. Her old constituency loves her. But
now that she has ended the affair, her longstanding Lib Dem rival is working
hard to win voters' affections.

Birmingham Yardley is the closest marginal in a city where the collapse of Rover
and the scandal over postal vote- rigging are making several Labour candidates
sweat.

The seat is also a textbook case of Lib-Dem targeting. Their candidate, John
Hemming, has steadily raised his profile over 20 years in local politics and
tightened his grip on the constituency through a cadre of city councillors.

Mr Hemming has stood against Ms Morris three times since 1992. As one of his
team admits, with a majority of 2,578 to overturn and a popular Labour incumbent
stepping down: "If John can't win now, he is never going to win it."

Ms Morris is campaigning for her party's candidate, Jayne Innes, 34. But to the
Lib Dems her involvement suggests a lack of confidence. "It is very tight," Ms
Morris admits. "But this is the most atypical constituency I have ever known. It
is a lovely constituency. You can read the polls but you always know that
Yardley is not going to go that way."

Yardley has the lowest ethnic-minority population of the city's seats and has
consistently returned Lib Dem councillors with large majorities while also
backing Ms Morris. Its mixture of middle-class homes and council estates is
sliced in two by the dual carriageway from Birmingham to Coventry.

Mr Hemming said: "Our problem has been her loyalty vote. Now that she has gone
Labour has just collapsed."

Mr Hemming, 54, deputy leader on Birmingham City Council, is well known locally.

He has now gained a national publicity coup by bringing a High Court case to
review postal voting after the recent case against Labour councillors in nearby
areas of Birmingham.

"When you are told your city is a banana republic (as the judge did in the
Birmingham vote-rigging case), that does not go down very well," Mr Hemming
says.

In typical Lib Dem fashion, his leaflets dismiss his opponent as "Labour's
unknown candidate from Coventry...residents say an MP for our area should be
local, not parachuted in from outside." Actually Mr Hemming does not live in the
constituency either (his home is in Moseley), although he is a councillor for
South Yardley.

Mrs Innes, a former teacher who runs a charity helping the unemployed back to
work, said: "I have lived and worked in Birmingham and come May 6 I will be
living in the constituency and he won't."

John Reid, the Health Secretary, has been to help her campaign, as has Lord
Kinnock and Geoff Hoon, the Defence Secretary. She is fighting on Labour's
record on improving local schools and hospitals and campaigning to clean up the
area.

Crime and antisocial behaviour is the big issue in Yardley, to judge by shoppers
at the local Co-op. Frances Taylor, 64, said: "I voted Labour before but I'm
voting for the Lib Dems because John Hemming has done loads for Yardley. He got
security cameras round here." Another middle-aged woman said: "I am a Labour
voter but I am really unsure; Estelle was very good. I am not so sure about this
new one."

Paul Uppal, the Tory candidate, 37, seems to realise he cannot win. "This a seat
where we used to do very well," he says. "This is part of a process of trying to
establish ourselves."

BIRMINGHAM YARDLEY

MP: Estelle Morris since 1992; standing down

2001 result

Labour 14,085

Liberal Democrat 11,507

Conservative 3,941

UKIP 329

Soc Lab 151

Majority 2,576


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              31 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 27, 2005, Wednesday

Tories have raised £1m in a fortnight

BYLINE: David Charter Chief Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 31

LENGTH: 284 words


The Conservatives have attracted donations worth more than £1 million during the
first two weeks of the election campaign.

A big union handout and several large individual donations have helped to swell
Labour coffers by just under £1 million, but the Tories were boosted by the
single largest gift of the election so far of £400,000.

The Transport & General Workers Union gave £273,000 to the Labour campaign and
Jon Aisbitt, who made a reputed £80 million when Goldman Sachs floated, handed
over £250,000.

Sir Maurice Hatter, founder of the electronics giant IMO Precision Controls, and
the manufacturing guru Lord Bhattacharyya have both chipped in Pounds 100,000
towards Labour's total for the campaign fortnight of £970,256.

The donation of £400,000 given to the Tories by Sir Tom Cowie, the 82-year-old
transport millionaire who built up the Arriva group, helped them to a total of
more than £1.3 million.

The Tories have also benefited from £309,000 in Short money, the official
financing given to the Opposition from the taxpayer.

The figures, released yesterday by the Electoral Commission, show that the
Liberal Democrats have attracted just £57,000 in cash and kind since April 5.

Their largest donation was a gift of £32,000 from Lord Jacobs, a Lib Dem life
peer.

The UK Independence Party has received almost £65,000, the second largest gift
being £15,000 from the party's leader, Roger Knapman.

Respect received two donations of £10,000, one from Graham Turner, its own
economic policy adviser.

TBWA, the advertising company producing Labour's campaign posters, declared that
it had donated to the party staff time worth £13,022.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              32 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 27, 2005, Wednesday

Voters try to whip up storm against wind farms

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Home news; 33

LENGTH: 688 words


REPORTER AT YOUR BECK AND CALL

Lounging against a farm gate with two dozen cows sniffing curiously at his
backside, the scion of a famous political and literary family waved at the
"gorgeous and lovely and heavenly" scenery and hoped that a wind of change was
blowing across the country.

The refreshing Atlantic breezes are the subject of intense debate in Devon North
and at the behest of alarmed local readers I had come to see how they were
buffeting the campaign in this exquisite corner of the country.

In a move that will be familar to voters in many constituencies, an application
has been made by a power company to send 22 360ft (110m) turbines marching
across five miles of hillsides at Fullabrook Down. The Government has requested
more information. Local people are suspicious that this was an attempt to put
the matter off until after the election.

Nick Harvey, the Liberal Democrat MP for 13 years, is vehemently opposed to the
wind farm. Orlando Fraser, the Tory candidate, is the son of Lady Antonia Fraser
and the late Tory MP Sir Hugh Fraser and grandson of the Labour minister and
prison reformer Lord Longford. He invited Tim Yeo, the Shadow Environment
Secretary, to Fullabrook to outline a policy that the Tories hope will be a
vote-winner across the country.

Mr Yeo said that the Government had a fixation with onshore wind farms and that
we should instead diversify more into offshore wind farms and tidal power as
well as promoting better energy conservation. "We don't have to cover our
countryside in wind farms," Mr Yeo said. "This election poses the last chance to
save a number of our landscapes."

The Tories plan to hand the decision-making process on big wind farms back to
councils. Mr Yeo referred to Tony Blair's own opposition to a wind farm in his
Sedgefield constituency. "Even he knows how important it is for local people's
views to be taken into account," Mr Yeo said. "But he hasn't told John
Prescott."

The Lib Dems are broadly in favour of wind farms, but say that they have to be
in the right places. "We have a very nice Liberal Democrat MP who makes a lot of
nice noise, which is good, but he won't be able to do anything about it," Mr
Fraser said. Mr Harvey's gentle but pointed retort: "I think people have twigged
that the Tories aren't going to form a government either. It comes down to what
sort of opposition Labour is going to face."

He is an articulate voice on the turbines, claiming that if tourism is hit by
just 1 per cent because of the wind farm there will be a £5 million gap in the
local economy. Mr Harvey is much liked, often because he is sometimes out of
step with his party on such issues as wind farms and hunting, and who even his
opponents admit has been a diligent MP.

Mr Fraser, a single London barrister, is a personable, jolly fellow with just a
touch of Boris Johnson about him. He found himself in trouble a couple of years
ago when he jokingly repeated a comment about North Devon women being
"notoriously hideous".

In one village at the foot of Exmoor he was feted by many voters because of his
support for local fox and staghounds and the Tory plan to rescind the hunting
ban.

Nevertheless, at one house he was on the receiving end of the most splendid
put-down I have seen during this campaign. He was talking over his shoulder to
me as the door was opened. "Good afternoon, Sir," he boomed, turning to discover
that Sir was a glowering battleaxe, who fixed him in her wrathful eye and
replied: "I've never voted in me life and I don't intend to start now on your
account."

He said that his mother, who is not known for her Conservative views, had shown
great support. And his stepfather, Harold Pinter? "We come from almost opposite
ends of the political spectrum, Harold and I, but we meet on having a common aim
of seeing the end of Mr Blair."

DEVON NORTH

MP: Nick Harvey since 1992

2001 result: Lib Dem 21,784; C 18,800; Lab 4,995; UKIP 2,484; Green Party 1,191;
majority 2,984

OTHER CANDIDATES

John Browne (UKIP); Mark Cann (Lab); Orlando Fraser (C); Richard Knight (Green)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              33 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 26, 2005

Comment & Analysis: It is racist to target the bigot's vote: Media and
politicians have created a hysteria without regard for truth

BYLINE: Herman Ouseley

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 26

LENGTH: 785 words


Are you thinking what we think you're thinking? We hope so, because many of our
hopes for taking power are based on the notion that immigration always plays
well at elections. Why change the habit of a near-lifetime? Remember how well
"swamping" worked in 1979?

Right now, there is an anti-asylum-seeker, anti-refugee, anti-immigration and
anti-terrorist mood which can be exploited. The polls tell us that this is a big
issue of concern, which doorstep canvassing confirms as real. Even in those
areas where residents rarely see a black face or experience multicultural
communities, there are calls for urgent action to protect the country from the
"influx of asylum seekers". Most would not recognise an asylum seeker if they
were ever to see one, but they do believe we are being overrun by such an
"invasion". So, why are they thinking what we think they are thinking?

For the past decade, and particularly since 1997, there has been an onslaught of
scare stories in the print media, creating hysteria about refugees and asylum
seekers. An analysis of national newspaper asylum and immigration coverage over
the six months to February 2004 revealed 1,254 articles in the broadsheets and
1,509 in the tabloids. Most of the tabloid coverage could be described as
vitriolic, sensationalist and alarmist, spreading fear and generating hysterical
and bigoted views among readers.

The media will not accept blame for feeding xenophobic and racist prejudices.
But hang on, where do people get their information, if not from politicians and
the news media? Even though surveys reveal that most people do not trust
politicians and newspapers to tell the truth, they remain the only consistent
source of daily information. So, if you are thinking what we think and know what
you are thinking, we also think we know why.

And the New Labour government has not countered any misinformation with facts
over the past eight years. Instead, they have claimed for themselves the tough
guys' role, bringing in more and more legislation to keep "undesirables" out.
Even though they have a rampant deportation machine that removed nearly 15,000
people in the past year, and have clamped down on deficiencies in the shambolic
management inherited from Howard's days in charge of the Home Office, they want
people to be thinking that they're "tough on asylum and tough on immigrants".

New Labour is in a right old bind. They have to be seen to be tough to satisfy
most constituents, but they also want ethnic-minority voters on side. There are
also all those whom Kilroy and his Veritas lot describe as the "metropolitan
elite and multiculturalists", who need to be seduced on issues of fairness,
equality, human rights and justice. Yet to satisfy all the varied demands, you
have to have power, control the government machinery and be the focus of media
attention.

Geoff Mulgan, the former head of policy at 10 Downing Street, stated recently in
a lecture at the London School of Economics: "For many (in the media) it doesn't
much matter whether what they print is true. The net result is that the public
are left with systematically incorrect perspectives on the world, as research
now shows, on issues ranging from Europe and migrants to public services, where
there is a wide gap between what the public believes and the facts . . . This
ethical deficit . . . indirectly promotes the idea that there are no truths,
only strategies and claims."

Truth and ethics should be at the core of democratic politics in our diverse and
complex society as we seek to build tolerance, respect, harmony and
understanding in spite of our differences. While it may not be racist to talk
about immigration, it certainly is to do so with the intention of capturing
every bigot's vote. Michael Howard knows that he cannot win the election without
capturing those votes that were destined for the BNP, Ukip and Veritas. That is
why he cannot let go of the anti-asylum/immigration agenda.

Seeking power irrespective of the morality that should unambiguously underpin
the arguments for election is now a part of the corrupt promises made by
political parties and their leaders. The result is the current high level of
cynicism and mistrust of political parties, politicians and the electoral
process.

It's not that we don't know what you are thinking; it's not that we are not
thinking what you are thinking or vice versa. It's to our shame and disgrace
that, whatever it takes, notwithstanding truth, ethics and morality, having
power is the ultimate prize that must be seized. Don't even think about it.

Herman Ouseley is a former chairman of the Commission for Racial Equality

hermanouseley@aol.com


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              34 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 26, 2005, Tuesday

ELECTION 2005: A TORY ADRENALIN JUNKIE WITH THE STOMACH TO CAMPAIGN ON TWO
FRONTS;
 THEY ARE TWO OF THE CONSERVATIVE BIG GUNS, BOTH CITED AS FUTURE

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: Final Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 2074 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Robert Kirk called on David Davis, his constituency MP, when he was unable to
collect his pension cheque for 10 weeks DAVID SANDISON


Campaigning with shadow Home Secretary David Davis " otherwise known as the
Secretary of State for Haltemprice and Howden " is not for the squeamish. The
first constituency visit begins at 6.30am at Old Hall Farm in the tiny village
of Spaldington deep in the East Riding near Howden. David Jackson, a bluff but
cheery farmer and agricultural adviser, is busy laying out a huge breakfast for
his guest.

Mr Davis, who lives nearby, has been up since before 6am and has already
attacked his rowing machine with awesome gusto. Fried eggs, almost orange in
colour, the likes of which I have not tasted since childhood, draw excited
compliments from the Davis retinue " two minders and a helicopter pilot. The
secret, it appears, is to allow the hens complete free range over the farmyard
so that they can feed off the odd dead rat in the barns. The squeamish among us
recoil but Mr Davis, a former SAS reservist who probably once lived off dead
rats during his training, smiles and continues to tuck in. Four spoons of sugar
are heaped into his mug of tea but, unlike the helicopter standing by in a field
outside, there will be no refuelling stop for Mr Davis for another 14 hours.
During that time he will whirr around England and Wales returning by the
afternoon to resume canvassing in this vast slice of the Vale of York that
stretches to the outer suburbs of Hull.

It is damp, foggy and cold when we take off over Howden's fabulous church. 'It's
a minster " not a church,' he corrects me sharply. By 10am we are in Monmouth, a
Labour marginal, where David Davies, the local Tory parliamentary candidate,
greets Mr Davis as he descends to a boisterous welcome from local party worthies
" all recorded by a motley media scrum. Local Welsh Davies makes much of this
similar name stunt as he welcomes 'the real David Davis'. National Davis plays
ball with local Davies but takes it a bit far when he says to local Davies' wife
'you married the wrong man'. Visits to an old people's home and the high street
last no more than 10 minutes apiece but the photo-op and the media interviews go
well " a bit too well, actually. The BBC is in tow and records an elderly lady
swooning at national Davis saying she would prefer him to Michael Howard as Tory
party leader. This is duly broadcast on the main evening news bulletin "
enabling the locals in Yorkshire to see 'our man' on the telly. This is how the
local Tories think Mr Davis's national duties complement his local profile "
enough to meet the Liberal Democrat challenge.

Soon we are off to Weston-super-Mare, a Liberal Democrat marginal that Tory
candidate John Penrose hope to win back. Mr Penrose takes Mr Davis straight to a
drug rehabilitation centre where they have a cosy chat with two counsellors "
again recorded by a scrum of media ratpackers. Then it's into the lounge to
address 20 former addicts. Here Mr Davis excels with a mixture of praise, charm
and encouragement. 'Taking control of your lives is the most important decision
you have taken by coming here. I congratulate you.' He knows his subject but his
listeners know it even better. They complain that after too short a treatment
time at the centre they might be left to fend for themselves before they are
fully re-habilitated. 'That's why we've pledged 25,000 residential drug care
places that should be for a minimum of six months,' he says, to nods of
approval.

Next stop is Oxford West and Abingdon. But there is no respite during the
journey as a succession of hacks vie for the plethora of profiles and interviews
with the man who might be Home Secretary next week, possibly an ex-MP (were he
to lose his marginal seat) or conceivably a future leader of the Tory party.

He thrives on it and genuinely likes the thrill and excitement. He shouts over
the helicopter headphones that he is 'an adrenalin junkie " as was Mrs
Thatcher'. Although aged 55, he looks trim, with matinee idol looks that make
him appear 10 years younger. A former grammar school boy, he became a director
of Tate and Lyle before entering Parliament in 1987. (Now we know where the
passion for sugar comes from!) He uses military metaphors to illustrate his
political battles. Why did his majority slump at the 2001 election and does he
worry about the Liberal Democrat threat? 'Last time we sent too many troops to
the next-door Labour marginal in Selby but I believe we can win again.'

This time though it's all hands on deck as Jon Neal, 29, the Liberal Democrat
candidate who fought the Haltemprice and Howden seat in 2001 came within 1,903
votes of becoming the MP. Mr Neal lives in Howden. When I ask him whether he is
feeling the strain of being on the campaign trail for nearly a fortnight he
responds sharply that his campaign began a minute after the result was declared
four years ago. He dismisses the suggestion that he is all things to all men and
women and insists that the same message goes to Labour voters 'whose candidate
cannot win' as to soft Tories scared of Michael Howard. On local income tax, Mr
Neal appears better briefed than his leader, but acknowledges there will be some
losers, although he believes they are likely to be Tory voters anyway. He thinks
that a large proportion of pensioners will buy into the policy, while Mr Davis
contends that the Tory discount of up to £500 off the council tax will also be
attractive to this crucial group of voters. But the Tories are angry that Mr
Neal misled voters about a leaflet suggesting that they supported Labour's
tuition fees. He contends it was a mistake and says, 'I'll apologise to Mr Davis
at the count.'

There is no sign of any Labour campaign. They polled 6,898 last time and Mr Neal
is chasing these votes. In the neighbouring Beverley and Holderness
constituency, Labour were only 811 votes behind, with the Liberal Democrats in
third place. I suspect that Labour are leaving the field clear for Mr Neal,
while the Liberal Democrats are reciprocating in the adjacent seat.

Both candidates find it difficult to find voters at home during the day and the
crucial door-knocking does not really get going until late afternoon. This helps
Mr Davis to make the most of his daytime when he is undertaking his national
tours. It's lunchtime when we touch down in Oxford West and Abingdon and link up
in Oxford for a walkabout with the sparky Tory, Amanda McLean, who is trying to
wrest the seat back from the Liberal Democrat, Evan Harris. Ms McLean introduces
Mr Davis to her shock troops " an army of Tory students from the university. He
greets them enthusiastically. 'Get her in or I'll hold you all personally
responsible,' he says with his natural charm. But there is more than a hint of
menace as he orders them into battle.

Within minutes we are off to Kettering, where Labour's Phil Sawford is defending
a wafer-thin majority. The Tory candidate, Philip Hollobone, pitches up with
Andrew Griffiths, standing in neighbouring Corby, and Peter Bone, candidate for
Wellingborough " both Labour marginals " outside the police station for a
photocall with Mr Davis. A homeless young man is about to go inside to report
under his conditions of bail but he seizes the opportunity to lurk around Mr
Davis as the cameras roll. The minders look anxious. But the down and out turns
out to be friend, not foe, and blames Labour for his situation. The exchange is
civil and ends with 'hope you get elected, mate'.

By this time the weather has closed in. We have been flying below pylon level
and one or two of us are turning green. The pilot tells us 'no more helicopter'.
Panic sets in among the minders but Mr Davis coolly commandeers a local worthy
to mercy- dash us to Peterborough where we complete the return to Yorkshire by
train. We end up only 45 minutes behind schedule.

Mr Davis is anxious to get back quickly as he has an appointment with
92-year-old Robert Kirk at his modest but well-kept semi in Hull Road, Howden.
Mr Kirk's wife is in hospital, after a heart attack, but he has been unable to
collect his pension for 10 weeks. The Post Office has botched up his chip and
pin number and he cannot access his money. He tried the helpline, which told him
his date of birth was incorrect on the records. Then he tried Mr Neal 'but I
never heard nothing'. In the end it was time to call the big shot. 'I finished
up having to contact Mr Davis who went to town on the matter.' Mr Davis says he
was also given the run-around by the Post Office which invoked the Data
Protection Act as a reason for giving the politician the brush off. In the end
Mr Davis went to the chairman's office before sanity prevailed. Mr Davis is
fretting about Mrs Kirk's health, and goes to check that the flow of pension
dosh has been restored. Mr Davis is too shrewd (and actually too polite) to
grubbily ask about Mr Kirk's voting intentions but I sense he knows he'll be
suitably thanked on polling day.

Next it's on to North Ferriby, a wealthy village near the Humber Bridge. We end
up at 9pm at an excellent local Italian restaurant worthy of the best in London.
At the dinner table Mr Davis is fielding media bids for the following morning's
Today programme. Over a disgustingly large blow- out he is juggling a BlackBerry
(computer not sweet) and a mobile phone for briefings on crime statistics. At
the next table a group of elegant British Asians has been watching this cabaret
utterly transfixed. As they gingerly approach us on their way out I initially
fear an immigration and asylum moment. But they turn out to be local doctors and
consultants from Hull Royal Infirmary. Again it is a friendly 'good luck' and
'stop all that paperwork when you get in' that rings in Mr Davis's ears as, at
10.30pm, he heads for home. Once indoors he begins his preparation for the joust
with John Humphrys via ISDN telephone link to the BBC after next morning's 8am
news.

In the end this is a two horse race between Mr Davis and Mr Neal. Mr Davis must
have the edge unless Labour voters decide to desert Tony Blair for the Liberal
Democrats. Michael Howard will be watching this result with particular
trepidation. If Mr Davis holds on he will be a serious contender to replace Mr
Howard unless the latter becomes Prime Minister. It would be fun to be a fly on
the wall to see the reaction of the Howard entourage when this constituency's
result is declared.

Haltemprice and Howden

n SITTING MP

David Davis

n HISTORY

A suburban and traditionally Conservative seat created in 1997 but rendered
highly marginal by the rapid advance of the Liberal Democrats.

Most of its acreage but only 30 per cent of the seat's voters are from the old
rural seat of Boothferry, including those in the town of Howden, where David
Davis has enjoyed comfortable majorities since 1987. In 2001, however, the
Liberal Democrats reduced Davis's majority from 7,514 to 1,903, gaining 10 per
cent mainly from Labour.

n SOCIAL PROFILE

More than 40 per cent of the population are in professional, managerial or
technical jobs, many from the middle classes of Hull. The constituency has one
of the highest percentage of high earners in Northern England. The west is
largely rural. Howden is attracting IT businesses and is now home to the
national headquarters of the Press Association.

n EMPLOYMENT

Unemployment is low at 1.8 per cent. The biggest employer is the BAE Systems
military aircraft factory at Brough on the Humber. After the merger with
Marconi, it suffered heavy redundancies in 2000.

n ISSUES

The area's prosperity has created pressure on housing and there is a potential
clash with the Government's targets to restrict greenfield development.

There are also fears that the rising population in the seat may put pressure on
its infrastructure and other resources. Most constituents are dependent on the
Hull Royal Infirmary, which has attracted complaints about its waiting times and
standards.

There are also concerns about ambulance response times. Crime is low but the
chief constable is trying to make policing more visible.

n RESULT 2001

David Davis Cons 18,994 (43.2 per cent)

Jon Neal Lib Dem 17,091 (38.9 per cent)

Leslie Howell Lab 6,898 (15.7 per cent)

Joanne Robinson UKIP 945 (2.2 per cent)

n TURNOUT

65.5 per cent

n CONSERVATIVE MAJORITY

1,903

n CANDIDATES 2005

David Davis Cons

Edward Hart Lab

Philip Lane UKIP

John Mainprize BNP

Jon Neal Lib Dem

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              35 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 26, 2005, Tuesday

ELECTION2005: MAN WHO MIGHT BE HOME SECRETARY (OR OUT ON HIS EAR, COME 6 MAY);
 THEY ARE TWO OF THE CONSERVATIVE BIG GUNS, BOTH CITED AS FUTURE

BYLINE: MICHAEL BROWN

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 20,21

LENGTH: 2074 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Robert Kirk called on David Davis, his constituency MP, when he was unable to
collect his pension cheque for 10 weeks DAVID SANDISON


Campaigning with shadow Home Secretary David Davis " otherwise known as the
Secretary of State for Haltemprice and Howden " is not for the squeamish. The
first constituency visit begins at 6.30am at Old Hall Farm in the tiny village
of Spaldington deep in the East Riding near Howden. David Jackson, a bluff but
cheery farmer and agricultural adviser, is busy laying out a huge breakfast for
his guest.

Mr Davis, who lives nearby, has been up since before 6am and has already
attacked his rowing machine with awesome gusto. Fried eggs, almost orange in
colour, the likes of which I have not tasted since childhood, draw excited
compliments from the Davis retinue " two minders and a helicopter pilot. The
secret, it appears, is to allow the hens complete free range over the farmyard
so that they can feed off the odd dead rat in the barns. The squeamish among us
recoil but Mr Davis, a former SAS reservist who probably once lived off dead
rats during his training, smiles and continues to tuck in. Four spoons of sugar
are heaped into his mug of tea but, unlike the helicopter standing by in a field
outside, there will be no refuelling stop for Mr Davis for another 14 hours.
During that time he will whirr around England and Wales returning by the
afternoon to resume canvassing in this vast slice of the Vale of York that
stretches to the outer suburbs of Hull.

It is damp, foggy and cold when we take off over Howden's fabulous church. 'It's
a minster " not a church,' he corrects me sharply. By 10am we are in Monmouth, a
Labour marginal, where David Davies, the local Tory parliamentary candidate,
greets Mr Davis as he descends to a boisterous welcome from local party worthies
" all recorded by a motley media scrum. Local Welsh Davies makes much of this
similar name stunt as he welcomes 'the real David Davis'. National Davis plays
ball with local Davies but takes it a bit far when he says to local Davies' wife
'you married the wrong man'. Visits to an old people's home and the high street
last no more than 10 minutes apiece but the photo-op and the media interviews go
well " a bit too well, actually. The BBC is in tow and records an elderly lady
swooning at national Davis saying she would prefer him to Michael Howard as Tory
party leader. This is duly broadcast on the main evening news bulletin "
enabling the locals in Yorkshire to see 'our man' on the telly. This is how the
local Tories think Mr Davis's national duties complement his local profile "
enough to meet the Liberal Democrat challenge.

Soon we are off to Weston-super-Mare, a Liberal Democrat marginal that Tory
candidate John Penrose hope to win back. Mr Penrose takes Mr Davis straight to a
drug rehabilitation centre where they have a cosy chat with two counsellors "
again recorded by a scrum of media ratpackers. Then it's into the lounge to
address 20 former addicts. Here Mr Davis excels with a mixture of praise, charm
and encouragement. 'Taking control of your lives is the most important decision
you have taken by coming here. I congratulate you.' He knows his subject but his
listeners know it even better. They complain that after too short a treatment
time at the centre they might be left to fend for themselves before they are
fully re-habilitated. 'That's why we've pledged 25,000 residential drug care
places that should be for a minimum of six months,' he says, to nods of
approval.

Next stop is Oxford West and Abingdon. But there is no respite during the
journey as a succession of hacks vie for the plethora of profiles and interviews
with the man who might be Home Secretary next week, possibly an ex-MP (were he
to lose his marginal seat) or conceivably a future leader of the Tory party.

He thrives on it and genuinely likes the thrill and excitement. He shouts over
the helicopter headphones that he is 'an adrenaline junkie " as was Mrs
Thatcher'. Although aged 55, he looks trim, with matinee idol looks that make
him appear 10 years younger. A former grammar school boy, he became a director
of Tate and Lyle before entering Parliament in 1987. (Now we know where the
passion for sugar comes from!) He uses military metaphors to illustrate his
political battles. Why did his majority slump at the 2001 election and does he
worry about the Liberal Democrat threat? 'Last time we sent too many troops to
the next-door Labour marginal in Selby but I believe we can win again.'

This time though it's all hands on deck as Jon Neal, 29, the Liberal Democrat
candidate who fought the Haltemprice and Howden seat in 2001 came within 1,903
votes of becoming the MP. Mr Neal lives in Howden. When I ask him whether he is
feeling the strain of being on the campaign trail for nearly a fortnight he
responds sharply that his campaign began a minute after the result was declared
four years ago. He dismisses the suggestion that he is all things to all men and
women and insists that the same message goes to Labour voters 'whose candidate
cannot win' as to soft Tories scared of Michael Howard. On local income tax, Mr
Neal appears better briefed than his leader, but acknowledges there will be some
losers, although he believes they are likely to be Tory voters anyway. He thinks
that a large proportion of pensioners will buy into the policy, while Mr Davis
contends that the Tory discount of up to £500 off the council tax will also be
attractive to this crucial group of voters. But the Tories are angry that Mr
Neal misled voters about a leaflet suggesting that they supported Labour's
tuition fees. He contends it was a mistake and says, 'I'll apologise to Mr Davis
at the count.'

There is no sign of any Labour campaign. They polled 6,898 last time and Mr Neal
is chasing these votes. In the neighbouring Beverley and Holderness
constituency, Labour were only 811 votes behind, with the Liberal Democrats in
third place. I suspect that Labour are leaving the field clear for Mr Neal,
while the Liberal Democrats are reciprocating in the adjacent seat.

Both candidates find it difficult to find voters at home during the day and the
crucial door-knocking does not really get going until late afternoon. This helps
Mr Davis to make the most of his daytime when he is undertaking his national
tours. It's lunchtime when we touch down in Oxford West and Abingdon and link up
in Oxford for a walkabout with the sparky Tory, Amanda McLean, who is trying to
wrest the seat back from the Liberal Democrat, Evan Harris. Ms McLean introduces
Mr Davis to her shock troops " an army of Tory students from the university. He
greets them enthusiastically. 'Get her in or I'll hold you all personally
responsible,' he says with his natural charm. But there is more than a hint of
menace as he orders them into battle.

Within minutes we are off to Kettering, where Labour's Phil Sawford is defending
a wafer-thin majority. The Tory candidate, Philip Hollobone, pitches up with
Andrew Griffiths, standing in neighbouring Corby, and Peter Bone, candidate for
Wellingborough " both Labour marginals " outside the police station for a
photocall with Mr Davis. A homeless young man is about to go inside to report
under his conditions of bail but he seizes the opportunity to lurk around Mr
Davis as the cameras roll. The minders look anxious. But the down and out turns
out to be friend, not foe, and blames Labour for his situation. The exchange is
civil and ends with 'hope you get elected, mate'.

By this time the weather has closed in. We have been flying below pylon level
and one or two of us are turning green. The pilot tells us 'no more helicopter'.
Panic sets in among the minders but Mr Davis coolly commandeers a local worthy
to mercy- dash us to Peterborough where we complete the return to Yorkshire by
train. We end up only 45 minutes behind schedule.

Mr Davis is anxious to get back quickly as he has an appointment with
92-year-old Robert Kirk at his modest but well-kept semi in Hull Road, Howden.
Mr Kirk's wife is in hospital, after a heart attack, but he has been unable to
collect his pension for 10 weeks. The Post Office has botched up his chip and
pin number and he cannot access his money. He tried the helpline, which told him
his date of birth was incorrect on the records. Then he tried Mr Neal 'but I
never heard nothing'. In the end it was time to call the big shot. 'I finished
up having to contact Mr Davis who went to town on the matter.' Mr Davis says he
was also given the run-around by the Post Office which invoked the Data
Protection Act as a reason for giving the politician the brush off. In the end
Mr Davis went to the chairman's office before sanity prevailed. Mr Davis is
fretting about Mrs Kirk's health, and goes to check that the flow of pension
dosh has been restored. Mr Davis is too shrewd (and actually too polite) to
grubbily ask about Mr Kirk's voting intentions but I sense he knows he'll be
suitably thanked on polling day.

Next it's on to North Ferriby, a wealthy village near the Humber Bridge. We end
up at 9pm at an excellent local Italian restaurant worthy of the best in London.
At the dinner table Mr Davis is fielding media bids for the following morning's
Today programme. Over a disgustingly large blow- out he is juggling a BlackBerry
(computer not sweet) and a mobile phone for briefings on crime statistics. At
the next table a group of elegant British Asians has been watching this cabaret
utterly transfixed. As they gingerly approach us on their way out I initially
fear an immigration and asylum moment. But they turn out to be local doctors and
consultants from Hull Royal Infirmary. Again it is a friendly 'good luck' and
'stop all that paperwork when you get in' that rings in Mr Davis's ears as, at
10.30pm, he heads for home. Once indoors he begins his preparation for the joust
with John Humphrys via ISDN telephone link to the BBC after next morning's 8am
news.

In the end this is a two horse race between Mr Davis and Mr Neal. Mr Davis must
have the edge unless Labour voters decide to desert Tony Blair for the Liberal
Democrats. Michael Howard will be watching this result with particular
trepidation. If Mr Davis holds on he will be a serious contender to replace Mr
Howard unless the latter becomes Prime Minister. It would be fun to be a fly on
the wall to see the reaction of the Howard entourage when this constituency's
result is declared.

Haltemprice and Howden

n SITTING MP

David Davis

n HISTORY

A suburban and traditionally Conservative seat created in 1997 but rendered
highly marginal by the rapid advance of the Liberal Democrats.

Most of its acreage but only 30 per cent of the seat's voters are from the old
rural seat of Boothferry, including those in the town of Howden, where David
Davis has enjoyed comfortable majorities since 1987. In 2001, however, the
Liberal Democrats reduced Davis's majority from 7,514 to 1,903, gaining 10 per
cent mainly from Labour.

n SOCIAL PROFILE

More than 40 per cent of the population are in professional, managerial or
technical jobs, many from the middle classes of Hull. The constituency has one
of the highest percentage of high earners in Northern England. The west is
largely rural. Howden is attracting IT businesses and is now home to the
national headquarters of the Press Association.

n EMPLOYMENT

Unemployment is low at 1.8 per cent. The biggest employer is the BAE Systems
military aircraft factory at Brough on the Humber. After the merger with
Marconi, it suffered heavy redundancies in 2000.

n ISSUES

The area's prosperity has created pressure on housing and there is a potential
clash with the Government's targets to restrict greenfield development.

There are also fears that the rising population in the seat may put pressure on
its infrastructure and other resources. Most constituents are dependent on the
Hull Royal Infirmary, which has attracted complaints about its waiting times and
standards.

There are also concerns about ambulance response times. Crime is low but the
chief constable is trying to make policing more visible.

n RESULT 2001

David Davis Cons 18,994 (43.2 per cent)

Jon Neal Lib Dem 17,091 (38.9 per cent)

Leslie Howell Lab 6,898 (15.7 per cent)

Joanne Robinson UKIP 945 (2.2 per cent)

n TURNOUT

65.5 per cent

n CONSERVATIVE MAJORITY

1,903

n CANDIDATES 2005

David Davis Cons

Edward Hart Lab

Philip Lane UKIP

John Mainprize BNP

Jon Neal Lib Dem

LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              36 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 25, 2005

Election 2005: The boundaries of race in Britain today: Immigration debate Will
the focus on the asylum issue enhance or damage the Tories' chances?

BYLINE: Gary Younge

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1908 words


The journey from St Ives in Cornwall to East Ham in London starts with a curry
and clotted cream in Enys Wartha's Victorian tea rooms in Penzance and ends with
a Lithuanian waitress offering curried goat roti in a Caribbean restaurant in
the capital.

It is a trip from the constituency with the lowest proportion of ethnic minority
voters in England to the one with the highest that reveals not only the uneven
range of Britain's physical landscape, but its racial landscape too.

Look at the CD racks in towns, the restaurants in the smallest village high
streets or watch a football match on any pub television and you get a sense of
how much British culture has changed as a result of postwar migration. In
contrast, listen to the election debate about immigration and you'll realise how
little our political culture has altered.

Having receded as a decisive electoral issue for the best part of a quarter of a
century, "immigration" is back. In a Populus Tracker poll in the Times last
week, immigration and asylum emerged as the fourth most likely issue to
influence votes. At the same stage in the elections of 2001 and 1997 it did not
rank at all.

And it is back in an ugly manner reminiscent of the racially charged 1960s, when
in the 1964 Smethwick byelection the Conservative, Peter Griffiths, won with the
slogan: "If you want a nigger for a neighbour, vote Labour." Cast an eye over
the 2005 election literature of Bob Spink, Tory candidate for Castle Point in
Essex, which asks: "What bit of 'send them back' don't you understand Mr Blair?"
and it seems little has changed in the intervening years.

In the constituency of St Ives, once a true-blue Tory constituency until the
Liberal Democrats won it in 1997, a black face can still turn heads and twitch
curtains. With around 0.1% of the voters from ethnic minorities the tidal wave
of change that has swept through most of Britain since the arrival of Windrush
almost 60 years ago has barely caused a ripple here.

"A lot of people have not looked at themselves or their organisations for quite
a long time here," says Eileen Bortey, the chairwoman of Cornwall's Council for
Racial Equality. "You still get quite senior people who should know better
referring to 'coloureds' and 'half-castes'." In Padstow, they still take to the
streets in black face and Afro wigs to sing minstrel songs for their annual
Darkie Day celebrations.

Meanwhile the temporary and low-paid jobs that prevail in Cornwall, the poorest
county in Britain, have been filled by up to 20,000 migrants from eastern Europe
and other poorer parts of the EU. "They are mostly in agricultural work, care
homes, hotel and catering," says Jonny Lovell, diversity officer of West
Cornwall Together. "A lot of them do seasonal work and other jobs where there
are not enough local people to fill the vacancies."

So even here, where most migrants are from the home counties, immigration plays
big.

"It's the one resonance issue that's favouring the Tories," says Andrew George,
the Lib Dem candidate for St Ives, who is defending a 10,053 majority. "On the
doorstep people aren't saying: 'I'm voting Conservative because of their tax
spending plans'. People have been saying, 'We only came down here to get away
from the blacks', and there was no self-consciousness about saying it out loud.
I'm very disturbed about it."

In Croydon Central, the Conservative candidate Andrew Pelling's leaflets show a
world map with an arrow pointing to Croydon with the headline "Unlimited
Immigration'.' In Perth, where Douglas Taylor seeks to stop hordes of foreign
jobseekers heading for the north of Scotland, the message is: "Voters face a
clear choice at this election - unlimited immigration under Labour or fair and
controlled immigration with the Conservatives."

Shortages

The question of how to regulate the flow of people into a country with an ageing
population and acute labour shortages in certain areas is an important one. But
the debate in Britain has been chronically misinformed.

A Mori poll from 2003 showed that Britons overestimate the proportion of
immigrants in the country by between three- and four-fold. And asylum and
immigration - two quite separate if related issues - have been conflated in the
national conversation as though they are synonymous.

For many people "immigration" is a code word for non-white people, regardless of
where they are from. "No offence," said a ruddy-faced retired man I met in
Portland, Dorset, just before he caused offence. "You've got a job. You've done
well for yourself. But a lot of them come here with their hand out and there's
got to be limits."

The Conservatives deny they are playing the race card. "Maybe they're not," says
Andrew George. "But they're playing the immigration card and that's right next
to the race card in the deck."

Either way it seems to be having some effect. In the constituency of Dorset
South, with Labour's slimmest majority of just 153, Jim Knight says it plays
well with the pensioners, who may be struggling and feel resources are being
diverted from them. "It could just put enough of our supporters off turning
out."

Mr Knight's opponent, Ed Matts, made national news after he doctored a
photograph of himself that turned a protest supporting a refugee family's right
to stay in the country into one calling for controlled immigration. But no one I
spoke to in Weymouth seemed that bothered by it and, with the exception of a
passing, mocking reference at a hustings in Portland, the issue was not
addressed.

However, over the past week it has become clear that in using the immigration
card the Conservatives may be overplaying their hand.

"I'm surprised at how prominent Michael Howard has made immigration," says Tariq
Modood, a sociology professor at Bristol University and author of Multicultural
politics: Racism, ethnicity and Muslims in Britain.

"When Mrs Thatcher made a great play of immigration she referred to it just
once. She never had to go back to it again. The message was clear. I'm surprised
that Mr Howard feels he has to go on and on about it. He risks alienating some
voters. If people keep calling him a racist then it will have an effect. He
risks losing control of the issue. If you unleash a rottweiler it may go and do
something you didn't want it to do. He may be bolstering the prospects of Ukip
or the BNP."

Senior Tories have started to express their surprise too. They fear that
concentrating on immigration and all it implies will have the same ultimately
negative effect as campaigning against Europe did in 2001.

Steve Norris, the former Conservative mayoral candidate for London, said: "I
think the people who, for example, might agree with the Conservatives on a lot
of issues but who find the concentration on immigration vaguely distasteful, are
just as likely to say, 'No thanks'."

Michael Portillo, the former defence secretary, said: "The most important thing
for the Tories to prove to people is that they have changed. I think that by
having immigration as such a big part of the campaign it suggests to people they
haven't."

The immigration issue may rally the Conservatives' depleted base. But if it
bolsters their reputation as what the former party chairwoman Theresa May calls
"the nasty party", it could repel waverers while motivating disaffected Labour
voters to return to the fold.

Immigration is important to almost a fifth of Tory supporters, three times the
proportion of Labour voters.

But the strategy risks scaring off women voters to whom, polls indicate, the
issue is of far less interest than men. A Populus poll revealed that only 32% of
voters identified with the slogan "Are you thinking what we're thinking?" - the
lowest rating of all the slogans of the three main parties in England.

Mr Modood argues that even though race and immigration did not play a huge role
in 2001 any fragile consensus was breaking down even four years ago.

He says: "2001 was a pivotal year. There were the disturbances in the northern
cities, the appointment of David Blunkett as home secretary, and the terrorist
attacks on September 11. Between them they contributed to a change of tone."

Mr Blunkett conflated immigration and race when responding to the riots in
Bradford with calls for citizenship classes and language lessons, as though
those involved were foreign.

"We have norms of acceptability," he said shortly before the report into the
disturbances was released. "And those who come into our home - for that is what
it is - should accept those norms just as we would have to do if we went
elsewhere."

Last Friday Tony Blair delivered a speech about race in Dover against a backdrop
not just of the white cliffs but of entirely white faces.

Languages

By the time you get to Romford Road in East Ham, where a jumble of different
languages mingle in the air and the shop signs call you in Cyrillic and Arabic
as well as Roman script, the still bay of St Ives could be another country.

According to Operation Black Vote, with 53,166 black and Asian voters East Ham
has the highest number of minority voters in the country - a rich mix of people
of Bangladeshi, African and Caribbean descent.

On the eve of St George's Day, the Conservative candidate, Sarah Macken, is
handing out leaflets outside the Shahjalal mosque, within the sound of Bow
bells. She is attempting to convert Muslims to the Tories, but she doesn't have
a prayer; Labour has a majority of 21,032.

But unlike Humfrey Malins, the Tory immigration spokesman, who put out two
leaflets - one in Urdu to Muslim voters boasting about his record of helping
procure visas and visits, the other to white voters pledging to be tough on
immigration - Ms Macken is handing out only one leaflet and hers does not
mention immigration at all.

"There are good community relations here and for that to endure there has to be
absolute confidence in our immigration controls," is all she will say.

Most people take the leaflets politely, although one man berates her, telling Ms
Macken that a party that supported the war in Iraq and anti-terror legislation
should have more respect than to leaflet a mosque.

Most of those asked say they are definitely not voting Labour because of the
war. Most end up conceding that they did not vote last time either. Nothing much
about the immigration debate seems to have troubled or surprised them. It's as
though the election were taking place in another country, where they just happen
to feature prominently in the national paranoia.

So where immigrants and their descendants are many, immigration barely plays at
all; where they are few the issue plays big.

With a few exceptions, most of the key marginals, including Dorset South, have a
low proportion of minority voters.

So immigration could yet prove decisive - but it's unclear which party the issue
will eventually favour. Since Britons rarely tell the truth about race, to
pollsters or anyone else, it is difficult to tell.

But one thing emerges of the journey from St Ives to East Ham.

The receptive audience the Conservatives have attracted in highlighting
immigration suggests that despite all the contributions of black and Asian
athletes, authors, musicians and midwives over the past 50 years, this nation's
multicultural fabric is not woven half as tight as some might like to believe.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              37 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 25, 2005, Monday

TONY PARSONS: I WILL VOTE FOR BLAIR BUT WITH A BIG SIGH

BYLINE: TONY PARSONS

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 649 words


SO this is how low a democracy can go... we are about to vote for a Prime
Minister we already despise.

That's a new one, isn't it? Traditionally we wait until the other side of a
general election before indifference and loathing set in. This time round, we
are getting our indifference and loathing in early.

The party we are about to elect trot out statistics about the NHS while we
hesitate to take our children to our disease-ridden hospitals, in case they end
up like Lesley Ash.

We read about the wonderful war on crime, while a pregnant, paralysed mother
called Abigail Partridge fights for her life after being stabbed in the spine.

We hear about the latest allegations of lies - Blair was reportedly told by
Attorney General Lord Goldsmith that his attack on Iraq was likely to be
declared illegal - and we don't even blink, because we expect to be lied to by
Tony Blair and crew.

And yet it will be New Labour by default.

Voting for the Lib-Dems, the Greens, UKIP or the Monster Raving Loony Party is
like stuffing your ballot paper down the toilet. And Michael Howard is
discredited already, because he was part of a callous, incompetent regime that
had almost 20 years to make a difference.

I can't vote for a hypocritical party which makes capital out of hating
foreigners, when many prominent Tories (Michael Howard, Boris Johnson) come from
families who jumped off the banana boat only a generation ago.

So in 10 days it's Blair and New Labour again, but Blair with a sigh, New Labour
with no expectations, a government that has already let us down.

Even the prospect of Blair being eventually replaced by Gordon Brown doesn't
fill me with glee - we could be losing a great Chancellor of the Exchequer and
gaining a mediocre Prime Minister.

But this is the general election where the British people really do not expect
things to get better. Has there ever been another where all the parties involved
were so widely despised?

Where are all the posters in the windows

Is my memory playing tricks, or didn't a general election once bring a riot of
red, blue and yellowy-orange posters in every neighbourhood in the land?

And not so long ago.

BLAIR was elected in a blaze of optimism. I blush to recall that as Tone first
stood grinning on the doorstep of No 10, I felt moved to quote Orwell - "when
hope and history rhyme".

What a dopey, sappy thing to say! How naive to think that a long stretch of
Labour would ultimately be any better than 18 years of Tory misrule.

How ridiculous to believe for one second that things could only get better.

It's a sad day because better men than me fought and died and gave their lives
and limbs for this democracy that we no longer cherish.

We owe it to them to try to revitalise our democracy, we owe it to them to learn
again how to value this great gift.

We should start with televised debates. Everyone in this country is a little
Michael Moore, constantly sneering at the Americans and their democracy, but
this general election has nothing to match the brutal drama of George Bush and
John Kerry going face to face on live telly.

I would love to have seen Michael Howard being pushed on live TV about
immigration, when his father only escaped the gas ovens of the Nazis because
this country opened its arms to a desperate foreigner.

And I would love to see Blair squirming on live TV as he defended his decision
to unleash all hell in Iraq because of a dirty little lie.

I am sick of these staged walkabouts, the fawning faithful, the fixed grins.

I want to see the panic in their eyes, the sweat on their armpits, the men
behind the masks. Then we would know who to choose.

As it is, we have nothing to vote for but these tired old parties, these
discredited old men and these pitiful party hacks.

And it is like looking for love in a knocking shop.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              38 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 25, 2005

MUDDY CHEEK!

BYLINE: Michael Lea European Correspondent

SECTION: EXCLUSIVE

LENGTH: 186 words


Saunas, massages and mud baths for MEPs

MEPs and their families get 60 cut-price MUD BATHS a year in a luxury EU health
scheme.

They can also have the same number of therapeutic saunas, massages and whirlpool
baths.

And taxpayers pick up almost all the cost of 30 annual acupuncture sessions.

Subsidised gold teeth, specs, contact lenses, glass eyes and hearing aid
batteries are among other perks available.

Rules allow MEPs to rack up £20,500 in medical benefits a year -without having
to pay in any contributions at all.

All they have to do is file an invoice for the treatment prescribed by a GP to
reclaim 80 per cent of the cost. Last week, MEPs voted to keep details of their
generous allowances secret.

But The Sun can reveal the details -including that in 2004, EU taxpayers footed
a treatments bill totalling £350,000.

UKIP deputy leader and MEP Mike Nattrass said: "It's no wonder they don't want
people to know. Schemes like this are out of the reach of ordinary people."

The Sun has also told how MEPs can get "free" second pensions worth up to
£44,000 a year.


LOAD-DATE: April 26, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              39 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 25, 2005, Monday

Why this baffling silence?

BYLINE: William Rees-Mogg

SECTION: Features; 20

LENGTH: 1012 words


The Tories want to save us from the worst excesses of Europe. So let them speak
up.

NEXT MONTH there will be historic votes both in Britain and France; the British
general election on May 5 and the French referendum on the European
constitutional treaty on May 29. In both countries the Government is in favour
of the European constitution and supports ratification. In Britain, the
Conservatives are the only major party opposed to the constitutional treaty.

In France, the past three months have seen a large and rapid swing of opinion
against the constitution. Earlier in the year the "Yes" vote had a majority of
60 to 40 per cent in the polls; that has been reversed and the "No" campaign is
now in a 60 to 40 majority. In Britain, where the European issue has played
hardly any part in the election campaign, there has been a small increase in the
Government's lead, from around 5 to 6 per cent. The European issue has moved
public opinion massively in France, but the opposition campaign in Britain has
so far failed to prevent a small seepage of support back to Labour.

The European issue has gripped the imagination of France. If there had been a
similar 20 per cent swing in Britain, the Conservatives would be in the lead by
a wide margin. This actually happened last June in the European elections. The
Conservatives came comfortably first. The combined Eurosceptic vote, including
both Conservative and the UKIP, won 45 per cent of the vote to Labour's 23 per
cent.

Europe is a big issue for Britain and for France. Whatever view one takes of the
constitutional treaty, it needs to be argued through. The United Kingdom cannot
lose its liberty in a fit of mere absent-mindedness.

It is argued, mainly by the small minority of Conservative Euro-extremists, that
voters are not interested in Europe, that William Hague's Eurosceptic campaign
in 2001 did not help him much, and that the electorate is content to leave the
euro and the constitutional treaty to future referendums. Since the
Conservatives have refrained from campaigning on the European issue, we may
never know whether these arguments are valid. I doubt it.

I was reporting on the 2001 general election mainly in the West Midlands, but
also in Scotland and the West Country. My view is that the opinion polls at the
time did reflect some reality, though they always exaggerated the Labour lead.
They recorded a huge Labour lead in the middle of the campaign, whittled down in
the last ten days when William Hague was emphasising the issue of the euro. On
May 24, MORI in The Times gave Labour a 25-point lead; on June 7 Labour won the
election but with only a nine-point lead. MORI may have been exaggerating, but
there probably was a big swing to the Tories during the European phase of
Hague's election campaign.

I do not believe that British voters do not care whether they become a province
of a European superstate, whether European integration is taken further, whether
European law is given complete constitutional priority over British law or
whether Britain remains a self-governing democracy.

I can remember 1940; we did not then have time for the general election that was
due. We certainly would not have thought then that the most important political
issues were asylum-seekers and council tax. Yet 1940, if by more violent means,
raised the same issue as the constitutional treaty -is the United Kingdom to
remain an independent, democratic, self-governing country, or are we to become
part of a European superstate?

None of the three main parties is campaigning on this issue. I quite understand
why the Labour Party and the Liberal Democrats do not do so. They are both in
favour of joining the single currency, with the loss of control of our own
currency and interest rates, and of ratifying the constitutional treaty, with
the loss of our national independence. They know that these policies are
extremely unpopular.

Last June the European election gave the Lib Dems only 15 per cent of the vote,
in fourth place below the UKIP. Yet on the same day, in the same polling
stations, the Lib Dems won 30 per cent of the vote in the local government
elections. As their European policies lost the Lib Dems half their support, they
are wise not to talk about them. The same is true for Labour.

It is the Conservative failure to make an election issue of Europe that is
impossible to explain. The Conservative policies are perfectly sound. They are
against joining the euro, which in principle the Government wants to do. They
are against ratifying the constitutional treaty, which the Prime Minister has
already signed. They want to recover powers from Europe, particularly in
fisheries and immigration.

The Conservatives want to remain inside the European Community, as I do, but
they want to limit Europe's pretensions. They are opposed both to the superstate
and to the constitution on which the superstate would be based. The Conservative
approach to Europe is infinitely preferable to that of Labour or the Lib Dems,
even for the most moderate Eurosceptic, indeed for any democrat. Why are the
Conservatives not talking about their most popular and important policy?

Perhaps the reason is that there has been some internal Tory agreement not to
mention Europe; perhaps the agenda has been set by the dreaded focus groups, a
reliable recipe for political imbecility.

Perhaps their Australian campaign director, Lynton Crosby, has told the Tories
to keep it simple and revolve their mantra of the five issues, like a Tibetan
prayer wheel. It is not too late. We should not leave our freedom to be decided
by the French referendum, or by some future British referendums which may be
micro-managed by Alastair Campbell and Peter Mandelson, the twins of darkness.
We should take the decision for liberty every time it presents itself. Labour
and the Lib Dems want to give up British independence; the Conservatives want to
keep it.

That is the central fact of this general election. For many people, it would
justify a vote.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              40 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 25, 2005, Monday

A two-horse race on flight path

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Features; 28

LENGTH: 626 words


Doorstep Damian, the reporter at your beck and call.

THE sun was shining when I met Adam Afriyie on the high street in Eton. "It's a
lovely day. You'll get a suntan," he said. "Hey, I don't want any competition."

If Mr Afriyie is elected next week he will be the first black Conservative MP.

This is a remarkable fact, but he had warned me on the phone that "I only have
about one line to say on that" and so initially I stuck to the burning issue for
many voters in Windsor. No, not Chaz and Milly.

Aircraft noise.

A shy reader, who asked not to be named, said that "all people care about is the
din from the planes. The Queen must hate it, but she can't vote. For the rest of
us it's a case of deciding who will best represent us on this."

For anyone living to the west of London in one of the constituencies close to
the Heathrow flight path, the problem of aircraft noise never goes away. As I
stood with Mr Afriyie on Eton Bridge, a plane dipped over the castle every two
minutes.

The Labour candidate, Mark Muller, is a lawyer who was the model for Mark Darcy
in the film of Bridget Jones's Diary, but is likely to come a distant third.
This is a two-horse, Tory-Lib Dem race and both candidates are saying much the
same things on aircraft. As Antony Wood, the chirpy Liberal Democrat candidate,
put it: "No one is going to say there should be more noise." Mr Wood said he
would "lead people on to the streets" if the number of flights was increased
from the current limit of 480,000 a year. Mr Alfriyie said he would "fight tooth
and nail" to maintain the limit. Both want to see a reduction in night flights
from the present number of 16.

Mr Wood, 62, a former officer in The Queen's Dragoon Guards, is claiming that as
a long-term resident, local councillor and a member of the Windsor Area Aviation
Action Group, he has the strongest track record. Mr Afriyie, 39, a
multimillionaire IT entrepreneur who moved to the constituency after his
selection 20 months ago, believes he would "certainly be the most energetic"
candidate on the issue.

Mr Afriyie is undoubtedly a smooth operator. Wearing a locally made suit and
strong cologne, he oozed charm, whether talking to strident dons in Eton or
adoring elderly ladies in Windsor. He didn't bat an eyelid when one old bird
started banging on about how great Enoch Powell had been. He does not lack
confidence in his ability to woo voters.

"Generally, if you get five minutes with people, they come round," he said. His
web-site contains 90 photographs of him, doing everything from running half
marathons to taking out recycling bins.

"His website is wonderful," said Mr Wood caustically.

Mr Afriyie, who is half Ghanaian, was wary of talking about what his election
will mean for the Tory party. If he is elected he will be famous for being the
first black Tory MP. "I'm more focused on what I'm going to achieve for people,
rather than my status within the party," he said.

There has been a little row over Mr Afriyie's use of a picture of himself in
front of the castle on a postcard he sent out. The Crown Estate was said to have
been unamused that its neutrality was compromised.

Mr Wood said: "He didn't offer an apology. Because I live here I know about that
piece of protocol."

Mr Afriyie said it was "a storm in a teacup". Unless something goes horribly
wrong at the polls, he can expect plenty of tougher political battles in the
years ahead.

* If you live in an interesting constituency please e-mail
damian.whitworth@thetimes.co.uk

WINDSOR:

MP: Michael Trend Windsor & Maidenhead since 1992 (retiring).

2001 result:

Conservative 19,900

Liberal Democrat 11,011

Labour 10,137

UKIP 1,062

Majority 8,889


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              41 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 25, 2005, Monday

Invisible woman reveals herself as a little paranoid

BYLINE: Alice Miles

SECTION: Home news; 29

LENGTH: 847 words


Britain's future will be decided in a handful of seats where the race is
closest. Today Alice Miles reports from the front line in Islington South.

SHE is the most invisible election candidate I almost never met. Emily
Thornberry is Labour's candidate in a seat the party is desperate to hold on to,
it being the place where Tony Blair lived before moving into No 10. But after
four days of trying to meet her, she had become, for me, a bit of a mystery.

A mother of three, she refuses to tell the local paper her age. Her house bears
not a single Labour poster while her campaign literature does not mention Tony
Blair. One leaflet is dominated, oddly, by pictures of daffodils and rhubarb.

Ms Thornberry's web diary repeatedly refers to her cycling, yet her political
opponents claim that she drives around in a 4x4. She told the local paper that
"my children are at school here" but apparently omitted to add "until they leave
primary school, at which point they attend a partially selective state secondary
15 miles away in Potters Bar".

This makes the entry in her web diary for Monday, April 11, when she had a
meeting with Islington Cyclists, striking. "We discussed in some detail how to
make it possible for children to cycle in London. I am very much in favour of
children cycling to school." Must be a hell of a cycle ride up the A1 to Potters
Bar.

Only one thing was clear about Ms Thornberry: she definitely did not want to
speak to The Times.

Often the best way to catch her was on a bike, her press spokesman suggested on
Day Four. "I have a bike," I said, "and I would be happy to cycle around after
her." The offer was not followed up.

Islington South & Finsbury ought to be safe Labour. The retiring MP is Chris
Smith, highly regarded for the past two decades. But resentment at the war in
Iraq in Islington's leafier terraces is threatening Labour's grip and Ms
Thornberry faces a strong challenge from a popular local Lib Dem councillor, the
efficient and energetic Bridget Fox. The Tories are fielding the completely
charming, enthusiastic Melanie McLean, who deserves a seat, but it won't be this
one.

Strangely, given the sensitivities of the area, the local Labour Party has
selected in Ms Thornberry a candidate who, like Mr Blair, is a barrister and who
lives in the same street he inhabited until 1997. As he did, she sends her
eldest child to a school outside the borough.

Islington is two different places: the wealthy crescents and squares, where they
chatter about the Iraq war and local traffic restrictions, and the grimy old
estates that nestle amid them and make this the sixth most deprived local
authority in the country.

Ms Fox understands both Islingtons. But I suspect that the council estates will
win this seat for Ms Thornberry. There is a tremendous reservoir of goodwill
towards Mr Smith.

And that was about as far as I'd got when I received a panicked call from Labour
HQ all but begging me to go and meet Ms Thornberry. They would even pay for a
taxi.

We shook hands outside a primary school, like children being ordered by their
parents to play together. Ms Thornberry was keen to tell me how the local
schools are enormously improved. "Well, since you mention schools ..." I
ventured.

"The decision that I've made is a private one and my children have gone to a
school which was in the borough for 300 years and has moved out," she said
shortly. The school still reserves 20 places a year for Islington children. She
loathes being asked about it.

Fair enough. I wouldn't like it either. Then again, I'm not standing for
Parliament, with a party that has had eight years to improve local schools.

"I've had a bit of a paranoid couple of weeks," she explained. "I feel exposed
being on the front page of the local paper and them (her children) all being
named. It was horrible. I have to say to my children, mummy wants to go into
public life and you have to be exposed in this way. " She is 44. She does ride a
bicycle, but she also drives a Mercedes. Not a 4x4. And you know what? She was
rather nice.

ISLINGTON SOUTH & FINSBURY:

MP: Chris Smith since 1983 (retiring).

2001 result:

Labour 15,217

Liberal Democrat 7,937

Conservative 3,860

Socialist Alliance 817

Independent 267

Stuckist 108

Majority 7,280

CANDIDATES: Emily Thornberry, Lab; Melanie McLean, C;Bridget Fox, Lib Dem; James
Humphreys, Green; Patricia Theophanides, UKIP; Chris Gidden, Independent;Andy
the Hat Gardener, Monster Raving Loony Party TEN TIGHT CONTESTS IN LONDON:

* Orpington: Conservative, maj 269. Lib Dem challenge

* Brent East: Lib Dem, maj 1,118. Lab challenge

* Hammersmith & Fulham Lab, maj 2,015.C challenge

* Ilford North: Labour maj 2,115. C challenge

* Enfield North: Lab, maj 2,291. C challenge

* Putney: Lab, maj 2,771. C challenge

* Finchley & Golders Green: Lab, maj 3,716. C challenge

* Wimbledon: Lab, maj 3,744. C challenge

* Croydon Central: Lab, maj 3,984. C challenge

* Richmond Park: Lib Dem, maj 4,964. C challenge


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              42 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 25, 2005, Monday

Who and where: the candidates and the constituencies

SECTION: Features; 52

LENGTH: 16979 words


KEY: Conservative C; Labour Lab; Labour and Co-operative Lab Co-op; Liberal
Democrat LD; Plaid Cymru PC; Scottish National Party SNP; Green Green; Ulster
Unionist Party UUP; Democratic Unionist Party DUP; Social Democratic and Labour
Party SDLP; Sinn Fein SF; Alliance Alliance; Workers' Party WP;

Alliance for Change AFC; Alliance for Green Socialism Green Soc; Alternative
Party AP;Anti-Corruption Forum Anti-Corrupt; Asian League AL; Blair Must Go
Party BMG;British National Party BNP; British Public Party BPP; Build Duddon and
Morecambe Bridges Bridges; Burnley First Independent Burnley; Campaigning for
Real Democracy CRD; Chairman of Sunrise Radio Sunrise; Christian Democrat Ch D;
Christian Peoples Alliance CPA; Church of the Militant Elvis Party Elvis;
Civilisation Party CP;

Clause 28 Children's Protection Christian Democrats Clause 28; Communist Party
Comm; Communist Party of Britain Comm Brit; Community Community; Community
Action Party CAP; Community Group CG; Countryside Party Country; Croydon
Pensions Alliance Croydon; Death Dungeons & Taxes Party DDTP; Defend The Welfare
State Against Blairism Def Welfare; Demanding Honesty in Politics and Whitehall
Honesty; Democratic Labour Party Dem Lab; Democratic Socialist Alliance - People
Before Profit Dem Soc All; Direct Customer Service Party Customer; English
Democratic Party EDP; English Democrats - Putting England First England; English
Democrats Party Eng Dem; English Independence Party Eng Ind; English
Parliamentary Party EEP; Extinction Club Ext Club; Fancy Dress Party FDP;
Fathers-4-Justice Fathers; Fit Party For Integrity And Trust Fit; Forward Wales
Party FWP; Free Party Free; Free Scotland Party Free Scot; Freedom Party FP; Get
Britain Back Party GBB; Green Green; Grey Party Grey; Imperial Party IP;
Independent Ind; Independent J Ind J;

Independent - Vote for Yourself Party Ind Vote; Independent B Ind B; Independent
Batchelor Ind Batch; Independent Bell Ind Bell; Independent Booth Ind
Booth;Independent Br Ind Br; Independent Braid Ind Braid; Independent Cam Ind
Cam;Independent Community Candidate Empowering Change Community; Independent
Green Ind Green; Independent Haines Ind Haines; Independent Hill Ind Hill;
Independent Hinkles Ind Hinkles; Independent Hunt Ind Hunt; Independent John Ind
John; Independent K Ind K; Independent Keys Ind Keys; Independent Kidderminster
Hospital and Health Concern KHHC; Independent Kl Ind Kl; Independent Labour Ind
Lab;Independent M Ind M; Independent Masters Ind Masters; Independent McBride
Ind McBride; Independent N Ind N; Independent Nazir Ind Nazir; Independent P Ind
P;Independent Pev Ind Pev; Independent Pr Ind Pr; Independent Prachar Ind
Prachar;

Independent R Ind R; Independent Sh Ind Sh; Independent Sib Ind Sib; Independent
Stone Ind Stone; Independent T Ind T; Independent United Unionist Ind
UU;Independent W Ind West; Independent Walsh Ind Walsh; Independent Working
Class Association IWCA; Independent X Ind X; "Iraq War, Not In My Name" Iraq;
Islam Zinda Baad Platform IZB; Isle of Wight Party IOW; Jam Wrestling Party
Wrestling; John Lillburne Democratic Party JLDP; Justice Party JP; Kidderminster
Hospital and Health Concern KHHC; Left Alliance Left All; Legalise Cannabis
Alliance LCA;Liberal Lib; Liberated Party LP; Local Community Party Local; Lower
Excise Duty Party Low Excise; Marxist Party Marxist; Max Power Party Power;
Mebyon Kernow Meb Ker; Monster Raving Loony Party Loony; Motorcycle News Party
MNP; Muslim Party Muslim; National Front NF; New Britain Party NBP; New England
Party NEP; New Millennium Bean Bean;

Newcastle Academy with Christian Values Party NACVP; No description ND; No
description Bardwaj ND Bardwaj; Northern Ireland Unionist NI Unionist; Northern
Progress For You Northern; Open-Forum Forum; Operation Christian Vote OCV;
Pacifist for Peace, Justice, Cooperation, Environment Pacifist; Pathfinders PF;
Peace Party, non-violence, justice, environment PPN-V;Peace and Progress Party
Progress; Pensioner Coalition Pensioner; Pensioners Party Scotland PPS; People's
Choice Choice; People's Justice Party PJP; Personality And Rational Thinking?
Yes! Party PRTYP; Pride in Paisley Party Paisley; Pro Euro Conservative Party
Pro Euro C; ProLife Alliance ProLife; Progress Democratic Party Members Decide
Policy Prog Dem; Progressive Democratic Party PDP; Progressive Unionist Party
PUP; Protest Vote Party Protest; Public Services Not War PSNW; Publican Party -
Free to Smoke (Pubs) Publican; Qari Qari; Rainbow Dream Ticket Party Dream;

Rate Payer RP; Reform 2000 Reform; Reform UK Ref UK; Removal of Tetra masts in
Cornwall Masts; Residents Association RA; Residents and Motorists of Great
Britain Res Motor; Respect the Unity Coalition Respect; Rock & Roll Loony Party
R & R Loony; SOS! Voters against Overdevelopment of Northampton SOS; Save The
National Health SNH; Save the Bristol North Baths Party Baths; Scottish Freedom
Referendum Party Scot Ref; Scottish Independence Party Scot Ind; Scottish Labour
Scot Lab; Scottish Senior Citizens Party Scot Senior; Scottish Socialist Party
SSP; Scottish Unionist Scot U; Seeks A Worldwide Online Participatory Directory
Online; Senior Citizens Party Senior; Silent Majority Party Silent;

Socialist Socialist; Socialist Alliance Soc All; Socialist Alternative Party Soc
Alt; Socialist Environmental Alliance Soc EA; Socialist Labour Party Soc
Lab;Socialist Party Soc; Socialist Unity Network Soc Unity; St Albans Party St
Albans;Stuckist Stuck; Tatton Group Independent Tatton; The Common Good Common
Good; The Millennium Council MC; The Peace Party - non-violence, justice,
environment TPP; The People's Choice Making Politicians Work Work; The
Resolutionist Party The RP; The Speaker Speaker; Their Party TP; Third Way
Third; Tigers eye the party for kids TEPK; Truth Party Truth; UK Community
Issues Party UKC; UK Independence Party UKIP; UK Pathfinders UK Path; UK
Pensioners Party UKPP; United Kingdom Unionist UKU; Unrepresented People's Party
Unrep; Veritas Veritas; Virtue Currency Cognitive Appraisal Party Currency; Vote
for yourself rainbow dream ticket Vote Dream;

WWW.XAT. ORG WWW.XAT.ORG; Wessex Regionalist Wessex Reg; Women for Life on Earth
WFLOE; Women's Coalition Women's Co; Workers' Revolutionary Party WRP; World
Revolutionary Party World Rev; Xtraordinary People Party XPP; Your Party
(Banbury) YPB; familiesfirst.uk.net FFUK; telepathicpartnership.com telepath.
Figures in brackets majority as percentage of turnout.

* A

ABERAVON

Rees-Mogg, A (C); +Francis, H (Lab); Waller, C (LD); Evans, P (PC); La Vey, M
(Green); Wright, W (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,108 (53.36%).

ABERDEEN NORTH

Anderson, D (C); +Doran, F (Lab); Delaney, S (LD); Stewart, K (SNP); Connon, J
(SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,294 (23.66%).

ABERDEEN SOUTH

Whyte, S (C); +Begg, A (Lab); Harris, V (LD); Watt, M (SNP); Reekie, R (Green);
Munro, D (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,931 (9.49%).

ABERDEENSHIRE WEST & KINCARDINE

Johnstone, A (C); Barrowman, J (Lab); +Smith, R (LD); Little, C (SNP); Grant, L
(SSP).

2001 LD Maj: 5,146 (13.44%).

AIRDRIE & SHOTTS

Cottis, S (C); +Reid, J (Lab); Watt, H (LD); Balfour, M (SNP); Coats, F (SSP);
Rowan, J (Scot Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,545 (39.46%).

ALDERSHOT

+Howarth, G (C); Linsley, H (Lab); Collett, A (LD); Cowd, G (Eng Dem); Hope, H L
(Loony); Rumsey, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 6,594 (14.56%).

ALDRIDGE-BROWNHILLS

+Shepherd, R (C); Phillips, J (Lab); Sheward, R (LD); Vaughan, W (BNP); Eardley,
G (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,768 (9.97%).

ALTRINCHAM & SALE WEST

+Brady, G (C); Stockton, J (Lab); Chappell, I (LD); Peart, G (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,941 (6.75%).

ALYN & DEESIDE

Hale, L (C); +Tami, M (Lab); Brighton, P (LD); Coombs, R (PC); Davies, G (Comm);
Armstrong-Braun, K (FWP); Kilshaw, J (Ind); Crawford, W (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,222 (26.04%).

AMBER VALLEY

Shaw, G (C); +Mallaber, J (Lab); Smith, K (LD); Snell, P (BNP); Price, H (UKIP);
Stevenson, A (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,227 (16.24%).

ANGUS

Bushby, S (C); Bradley, D (Lab); Rennie, S (LD); +Weir, M (SNP); Manley, A
(SSP).

2001 SNP Maj: 532 (1.52%).

ANTRIM EAST

+Beggs, R (UUP); Wilson, S (DUP); O'Connor, D (SDLP); McKeown, J (SF); Neeson, S
(Alliance); Kerr, D (Vote Dream).

2001 UUP Maj: 128 (0.36%).

ANTRIM NORTH

McCune, R (UUP); +Paisley, I (DUP); Farren, S (SDLP); McGuigan, P (SF); Dunlop,
J (Alliance).

2001 DUP Maj: 14,224 (28.90%).

ANTRIM SOUTH

+Burnside, D (UUP); McCrea, W (DUP); McClelland, N (SDLP); Cushinan, H (SF);
Ford, D (Alliance).

2001 UUP Maj: 1,011 (2.29%).

ARGYLL & BUTE

McGrigor, J (C); Manson, C (Lab); +Reid, A (LD); Strong, I (SNP); Henderson, D
(SSP).

2001 LD Maj: 3,832 (9.16%).

ARUNDEL & SOUTH DOWNS

Herbert, N (C); Whitlam, S (Lab); Deedman, D (LD); Stack, M (Protest); Moffat, A
(UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 13,704 (29.86%).

ASHFIELD

Inglis-Jones, G (C); +Hoon, G (Lab); Johnson, W (LD); Adkins, R (Ind); Allsop, C
(Ind); Grenfell, E (Ind); Hemstock, S (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,268 (33.72%).

ASHFORD

+Green, D (C); Whitaker, V (Lab); Took, C (LD); Boden, R (Green); Stroud, B (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 7,359 (15.35%).

ASHTON UNDER LYNE

Brown, G (C); +Heyes, D (Lab); Jones, L (LD); Jones, A (BNP); Crossfield, J
(Local); Whittaker, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,518 (43.39%).

AYLESBURY

+Lidington, D (C); Khaliel, M (Lab); Jones, P (LD); Adams, C (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 10,009 (20.39%).

AYR, CARRICK & CUMNOCK

Jones, M (C); +Osborne, S (Lab); Waugh, C (LD); Brodie, C (SNP); Steele, M
(SSP); McDaid, J (Scot Lab); McCormack, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,387 (26.56%).

AYRSHIRE CENTRAL

Clark, G (C); +Donohoe, B (Lab); Kennedy, I (LD); Hanif, J (SNP); Morton, D
(SSP); Cochrane, R (Soc Lab); Groves, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,772 (22.96%).

AYRSHIRE NORTH & ARRAN

Connell, S (C); Clark, K (Lab); White, G (LD); Gurney, T (SNP); Turbett, C
(SSP); McDaid, L (Soc Lab); Pursley, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,140 (27.33%).

* B

BANBURY

+Baldry, T (C); Sibley, L (Lab); Patrick, Z (LD); Duckmanton, A (Green);
Starkey, J (NF); Heimann, D (UKIP); Rowe, C (YPB).

2001 C Maj: 5,219 (10.13%).

BANFF & BUCHAN

Wallace, S (C); Okasha, R (Lab); Anderson, E (LD); +Salmond, A (SNP); Ross, V
(OCV); Will, S (SSP); Kemp, K (UKIP).

2001 SNP Maj: 9,744 (27.37%).

BARKING

Prince, K (C); +Hodge, M (Lab); Wickenden, T (LD); Cleeland, L (Green);
Barnbrook, R (BNP); Panton, D (Ind); Jones, T (UKIP); Saxby, M (WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,534 (37.94%).

BARNSLEY CENTRAL

Morel, P (C); +Illsley, E (Lab); Crompton, M (LD); Broadley, G (BNP); Wood, D
(Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,130 (54.93%).

BARNSLEY EAST & MEXBOROUGH

Abbott, C (C); +Ennis, J (Lab); Brook, S (LD); Robinson, T (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,789 (51.64%).

BARNSLEY WEST & PENISTONE

Watkinson, C (C); +Clapham, M (Lab); Brelsford, A (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,352 (35.74%).

BARROW & FURNESS

Dorman, B (C); +Hutton, J (Lab); Rabone, B (LD); Bell, T (Bridges); Young, H
(Ind); Beach, A (UKIP); Greaves, B (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,889 (25.34%).

BASILDON

Powell, A (C); +Smith, A (Lab Co-op); Thompson, M (LD); Copping, V (Green);
Colgate, E (BNP); Gandy, K (Eng Dem); Blythe, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 7,738 (18.93%).

BASINGSTOKE

Miller, M (C); Harvey, P (Lab); Smith, J (LD); Shirley, D (Green); Robertson, R
(BNP); Macnair, R (MC); Effer, P (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 880 (1.83%).

BASSETLAW

Sheppard, J (C); +Mann, J (Lab); Dobbie, D (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,748 (25.06%).

BATH

Dawson, S (C); Ajderian, H (Lab); +Foster, D (LD); Lucas, E (Green); Cobbe, P
(Ind); Walker, G (Ind); Crowder, R (U

KIP).

2001 LD Maj: 9,894 (21.37%).

BATLEY & SPEN

Light, R (C); +Wood, M (Lab); Bentley, N (LD); Lord, C (Green); Auty, C (BNP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,064 (13.14%).

BATTERSEA

Schofield, D (C); +Linton, M (Lab); Bhatti, N (LD); Charlton, H (Green); Jones,
T (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,053 (13.73%).

BEACONSFIELD

+Grieve, D (C); Sobel, A (Lab); Chapman, P (LD); Fagan, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 13,065 (31.00%).

BECKENHAM

+Lait, J (C); Curran, L (Lab); Foulger, J (LD); Reed, R (Ind); Cartwright, J (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,959 (10.88%).

BEDFORD

Fuller, R (C); +Hall, P (Lab); Headley, M (LD); McCready, J (Ind); Conquest, P (
UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,157 (15.17%).

BEDFORDSHIRE MID

Dorries, N (C); Lindsay, M (Lab); Chapman, M (LD); Foley, B (Green); Ali, S
(Ind); Joselyn, R (UKIP); Martin, H (Veritas).

2001 C Maj: 8,577 (18.96%).

BEDFORDSHIRE NORTH EAST

+Burt, A (C); White, K (Lab); Rutherford, S (LD); May, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,066 (17.29%).

BEDFORDSHIRE SOUTH WEST

+Selous, A (C); Still, J (Lab); Strange, A (LD); Gurney, K (Forum); Wise, T (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 776 (1.77%).

BELFAST EAST

Greer, A (C); Empey, R (UUP); +Robinson, P (DUP); Muldoon, M (SDLP); Devenny, D
(SF); Long, N (Alliance); Bell, J (WP); Gilby, L (Vote Dream).

2001 DUP Maj: 7,117 (19.32%).

BELFAST NORTH

Cobain, F (UUP); +Dodds, N (DUP); Maginness, A (SDLP); Kelly, G (SF); Hawkins, M
(Alliance); Delaney, M (WP); Gilby, L (Vote Dream).

2001 DUP Maj: 6,387 (15.60%).

BELFAST SOUTH

McGimpsey, M (UUP); Spratt, J (DUP); McDonnell, A (SDLP); Maskey, A (SF); Rice,
G (Alliance); Lynn, P (WP); Gilby, L (Vote Dream).

2001 UUP Maj: 5,399 (14.23%).

BELFAST WEST

McGimpsey, C (UUP); Dodds, D (DUP); Attwood, A (SDLP); +Adams, G (SF); Lowry, J
(WP); Kennedy, L (Ind); Gilby, L (Vote Dream).

2001 SF Maj: 19,342 (47.20%).

BERWICKSHIRE, ROXBURGH & SELKIRK

Lamont, J (C); Held, S (Lab); +Moore, M (LD); Orr, A (SNP); Hein, J (Lib);
McIver, G (SSP); Neilson, P (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 10,770 (24.80%).

BERWICK-UPON-TWEED

Elliott, M (C); Reynolds, G (Lab); +Beith, A (LD).

2001 LD Maj: 8,458 (23.30%).

BETHNAL GREEN & BOW

Bakth Faruk, S (C); +King, O (Lab); Dulu, S N I (LD); Foster, J (Green); Etefia,
E (AFC); Pugh, C (Ind); +Galloway, G (Respect).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,057 (26.18%).

BEVERLEY & HOLDERNESS

Stuart, G (C); McManus, G (Lab); Willie, B (LD); Marriott, O (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 781 (1.68%).

BEXHILL & BATTLE

+Barker, G (C); Jones, M (Lab); Varrall, M (LD); Smith, A (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 10,503 (23.45%).

BEXLEYHEATH & CRAYFORD

Evennett, D (C); +Beard, N (Lab); Raval, D (LD); Lee, J (BNP); Dunford, J (UKIP
).

2001 Lab Maj: 1,472 (3.65%).

BILLERICAY

+Baron, J (C); Dodds, A (Lab); Hibbs, M (LD); Robinson, B (BNP); Callaghan, S (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 5,013 (10.99%).

BIRKENHEAD

Morton, H (C); +Field, F (Lab); Kelly, S (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,591 (53.82%).

BIRMINGHAM EDGBASTON

Alden, D (C); +Stuart, G (Lab); Dixon, M (LD); Beck, P (Green); White, S (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,698 (12.45%).

BIRMINGHAM ERDINGTON

Elvidge, V (C); +Simon, S (Lab); Evans, J (LD); Ebanks, S (BNP); Williams, T
(NF); Hepburn, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,962 (32.55%).

BIRMINGHAM HALL GREEN

Hughes, E (C); +McCabe, S (Lab); Harmer, R (LD); Melhuish, D (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,648 (20.09%).

BIRMINGHAM HODGE HILL

Thomas, D (C); +Byrne, L (Lab); Davies, N (LD); Adams, D (BNP); Begg, A
(Progress); Duffen, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,618 (43.90%).

BIRMINGHAM LADYWOOD

Stroud, P (C); +Short, C (Lab); Khan, A (LD); Nazemi-Afshar, L (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 18,143 (57.61%).

BIRMINGHAM NORTHFIELD

Ford, V (C); +Burden, R (Lab); Sword, T (LD); Cattell, M (BNP); Rodgers, R
(Good); Houldey, L (Soc Alt); Chant, G (UKIP); Sweeney, F (WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,798 (26.40%).

BIRMINGHAM PERRY BARR

Khan, N (C); +Mahmood, K (Lab); Hunt, J (LD); Naseem, M (Respect); Clair, R (Soc
Lab); Balu, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,753 (23.39%).

BIRMINGHAM SELLY OAK

Tildesley, J (C); +Jones, L (Lab); Brighton, R (LD); Smith, B (Green); Burnett,
R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,339 (25.78%).

BIRMINGHAM SPARKBROOK & SMALL HEATH

Mirza, S (C); +Godsiff, R (Lab); Hussain, T (LD); Jamieson, I (Green);
Chaudhary, A (Ind); Yaqoob, S (Respect); Brookes, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,246 (44.33%).

BIRMINGHAM YARDLEY

Uppal, P (C); Innes, J (Lab); Hemming, J (LD); Purcell, R (BNP); Yaqub, M (UKIP
).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,576 (8.58%).

BISHOP AUCKLAND

Bell, R (C); Goodman, H (Lab); Foote-Wood, C (LD); Hopson, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,926 (36.12%).

BLABY

+Robathan, A (C); Morgan, D (Lab); Stephenson, J (LD); Robinson, M (BNP); Young,
D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 6,209 (13.03%).

BLACKBURN

Ameen, I (C); +Straw, J (Lab); Melia, T (LD); Carter, G (Green); Holt, N (BNP);
Murray, C (Ind); Baxter, D (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,249 (22.96%).

BLACKPOOL NORTH & FLEETWOOD

Williamson, G (C); +Humble, J (Lab); Bate, S (LD); Hopwood, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,721 (13.44%).

BLACKPOOL SOUTH

Winstanley, M (C); +Marsden, G (Lab); Holt, D (LD); Goodwin, R (BNP); Porter, J
(UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,262 (21.30%).

BLAENAU GWENT

Lee, P (C); Jones, M (Lab); Thomas, B (LD); Price, J (PC); Law, P (Ind);
Osborne, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 19,313 (60.88%).

BLAYDON

Luckhurst, D (C); Anderson, D (Lab); Maughan, P (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,809 (21.06%).

BLYTH VALLEY

Windridge, M (C); +Campbell, R (Lab); Reid, J (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,188 (35.28%).

BOGNOR REGIS & LITTLEHAMPTON

+Gibb, N (C); O'Neill, G (Lab); McDougall, S (LD); Lithgow, A (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 5,643 (14.48%).

BOLSOVER

Imam, H (C); +Skinner, D (Lab); Hawksworth, D (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 18,777 (49.06%).

BOLTON NORTH EAST

Brierley, P (C); +Crausby, D (Lab); Killeya, A (LD); Lowe, L (Soc Lab); Epsom, K
(UKIP); Ainscow, A (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,422 (21.62%).

BOLTON SOUTH EAST

Dunleavy, D (C); +Iddon, B (Lab); Harasiwka, F (LD); Bates, F (UKIP); Jones, D
(Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,871 (37.69%).

BOLTON WEST

Allott, P (C); +Kelly, R (Lab); Perkins, T (LD); Ford, M (UKIP); Ford, M
(Veritas); Griggs, K (XPP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,518 (13.39%).

BOOTLE

Moustafa, W (C); +Benton, J (Lab); Newby, C (LD); Glover, P (Soc Alt); Nuttall,
P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 19,043 (69.01%).

BOSTON & SKEGNESS

+Simmonds, M (C); Kenny, P (Lab); Riley, A (LD); Petz, M (Green); Russell, W
(BNP); Horsnell, R (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 515 (1.28%).

BOSWORTH

+Tredinnick, D (C); Herd, R (Lab); Moore, J (LD); Walker, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,280 (5.05%).

BOURNEMOUTH EAST

Ellwood, T (C); Stokes, D (Lab); Garratt, A (LD); Collier, T (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,434 (9.59%).

BOURNEMOUTH WEST

+Butterfill, J (C); Williams, D (Lab); Renaut, R (LD); Maclaire-Hillier, M (UKIP
).

2001 C Maj: 4,718 (14.02%).

BRACKNELL

+Mackay, A (C); Keene, J (Lab); Glendon, L (LD); Roberts, D (Ind); Pearson, V (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 6,713 (13.64%).

BRADFORD NORTH

Khong, T (C); +Rooney, T (Lab); Ward, D (LD); Schofield, S (Green); Cromie, L
(BNP); Yildiz, U (Respect).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,969 (25.61%).

BRADFORD SOUTH

Carter, G (C); +Sutcliffe, G (Lab); Doyle, M (LD); Curtis, D (Green);
Lewthwaite, J (BNP); Smith, J (UKIP); Muchewicz, T (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,662 (27.50%).

BRADFORD WEST

Rashid, H (C); +Singh, M (Lab); Ali, M (LD); Darr, P (Green); Cromie, P (BNP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,165 (10.85%).

BRAINTREE

Newmark, B (C); +Hurst, A (Lab); Turner, P (LD); Abbott, J (Green); Nolan, B M
(Ind); Lord, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 358 (0.71%).

BRECON & RADNORSHIRE

Davies, A (C); Veale, L (Lab); +Williams, R (LD); ap Gwynfor, M (PC); Phillips,
E (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 751 (2.00%).

BRENT EAST

Kwarteng, K (C); Qureshi, Y (Lab); +Teather, S (LD); Ali, S (Green); Weininger,
M (Ind); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,047 (45.00%).

BRENT NORTH

Blackman, B (C); +Gardiner, B (Lab); Hughes, H (LD); Ahmad, B (Progress); Weiss,
R G (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,205 (30.07%).

BRENT SOUTH

Saha, R (C); Butler, D (Lab); Allie, J (LD); Langley, R (Green); Fernandez, R
(Ind); Wallace, S (Ind); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 17,380 (60.69%).

BRENTFORD & ISLEWORTH

Northcote, A (C); +Keen, A (Lab); Dakers, A (LD); Hunt, J (Green); Andrews, P
(Community); Stoneman, M (NF).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,318 (23.18%).

BRENTWOOD & ONGAR

+Pickles, E (C); Adams, J (Lab); Stollar, G (LD); Appleton, A (Ind); Gulleford,
S (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,821 (6.48%).

BRIDGEND

Baker, H (C); Moon, M (Lab); Warren, P (LD); Clubb, G (PC); Spink, J (Green);
Rajan, K (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,046 (27.15%).

BRIDGWATER

+Liddell-Grainger, I (C); Burchell, M (Lab); Main, J (LD); Graham, C (Green);
Weinstein, R (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,987 (10.42%).

BRIGG & GOOLE

Bean, M (C); +Cawsey, I (Lab); Johnson, G (LD); Martin, S (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,961 (9.65%).

BRIGHTON KEMPTOWN

Symes, J (C); +Turner, D (Lab); Pepper, M (LD); Williams, S (Green); Cooke, E
(Ind); Dobbs, G (Ind); Clarke, P (Soc Alt); McLeod, J (Soc Lab); O'Reilly, C
(TPP); Chamberlain-Webber, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,922 (12.56%).

BRIGHTON PAVILION

Weatherley, M (C); +Lepper, D (Lab Co-op); Thorpe, H (LD); Taylor, K (Green);
Greenstein, T (Green Soc); Jago, K (Ind); Rooke, C (Ind); Fyvie, I (Soc Lab);
Crisp-Comotto, K (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 9,643 (23.68%).

BRISTOL EAST

Manning, J (C); McCarthy, K (Lab); James, P (LD); Krishna-Das, A (Green); North,
P (Respect); Smith, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,392 (33.20%).

BRISTOL NORTH WEST

Watson, A (C); +Naysmith, D (Lab Co-op); Hoyle, B (LD); Blundell, M (EDP);
Jones, G (Soc Alt); Lees, C (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 10,887 (23.42%).

BRISTOL SOUTH

Hill, G (C); +Primarolo, D (Lab); Barnard, K (LD); Bolton, C (Green); Dent, M (
UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,181 (34.61%).

BRISTOL WEST

Martin, D (C); +Davey, V (Lab); Williams, S (LD); Quinnell, J (Green); Reid, D
(Baths); Kennedy, B (Soc Lab); Muir, S (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,426 (7.95%).

BROMLEY & CHISLEHURST

+Forth, E (C); Reeves, R (Lab); Brooks, P (LD); Garrett, A (Green); Hooper, D (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 9,037 (20.90%).

BROMSGROVE

+Kirkbride, J (C); Jones, D (Lab); Haswell, S (LD); Buckingham, P (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,138 (17.81%).

BROXBOURNE

Walker, C (C); Bolden, J (Lab); Porrer, A (LD); Emerson, A (BNP); Harvey, M (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,993 (23.76%).

BROXTOWE

Seely, B (C); +Palmer, N (Lab); Watts, D (LD); Anderson, P (Green); Gregory, M
(Ind); Wolfe, P (UKIP); Hockney, D (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,873 (11.98%).

BUCKINGHAM

+Bercow, J (C); Greene, D (Lab); Croydon, L (LD); Williams, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 13,325 (29.43%).

BURNLEY

Miah, Y (C); Ussher, K (Lab); Birtwistle, G (LD); Starr, L (BNP); Brooks, H
(Burnley); Slater, J (Ind); McDowell, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,498 (28.46%).

BURTON

Pepper, A (C); +Dean, J (Lab); Johnson, S (LD); Russell, J (BNP); Lancaster, P (
UKIP); Buxton, B (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,849 (10.44%).

BURY NORTH

Nuttall, D (C); +Chaytor, D (Lab); Davison, W (LD); Clough, S (BNP); Silver, P (
UKIP); Upton, I (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,532 (14.58%).

BURY SOUTH

Williams, A (C); +Lewis, I (Lab); D'Albert, V (LD); Hossack, Y (Ind);
Greenhalgh, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,772 (32.30%).

BURY ST EDMUNDS

+Ruffley, D (C); Monaghan, D (Lab); Chappell, D (LD); Manning, G (Green);
Howlett, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,503 (4.98%).

* C

CAERNARFON

Opperman, G (C); Eaglestone, M (Lab); ab Owain, M (LD); +Williams, H (PC);
Williams, E (UKIP).

2001 PC Maj: 3,511 (12.08%).

CAERPHILLY

Watson, S (C); +David, W (Lab); Ali, A (LD); Whittle, L (PC); Beard, G (FWP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,425 (37.15%).

CAITHNESS, SUTHERLAND & EASTER ROSS

Ross, A (C); Jamieson, A (Lab); +Thurso, J (LD); Shirron, K (SNP); Campbell, G
(Ind); Ivory, L (SSP).

2001 LD Maj: 4,078 (14.33%).

CALDER VALLEY

Truss, L (C); +McCafferty, C (Lab); Ingleton, L (LD); Palmer, P (Green);
Gregory, J (BNP).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,094 (6.52%).

CAMBERWELL & PECKHAM

Lee, J (C); +Harman, H (Lab); Porter, R (LD); Ingram, P (Green); Sharkey, M (Soc
Lab); Penhallow, D (UKIP); Kulkarni, S (WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,123 (56.26%).

CAMBRIDGE

Lyon, I (C); +Campbell, A (Lab); Howarth, D (LD); Lucas-Smith, M (Green);
Forscey-Moore, S (Ind); Wilkinson, G (Ind); Woodcock, T (Respect); Davies, H (
UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,579 (20.03%).

CAMBRIDGESHIRE NORTH EAST

+Moss, M (C); Costain, F (Lab); Dean, A (LD); Baynes, L (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 6,373 (13.26%).

CAMBRIDGESHIRE NORTH WEST

Vara, S (C); Orhan, A (Lab); Souter, J (LD); Brown, R (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,101 (18.43%).

CAMBRIDGESHIRE SOUTH

+Lansley, A (C); Wilson, S (Lab); Dickson, A (LD); Saggers, S (Green); Page, R (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,403 (17.38%).

CAMBRIDGESHIRE SOUTH EAST

+Paice, J (C); Ross, F (Lab); Chatfield, J (LD).

2001 C Maj: 8,990 (17.33%).

CANNOCK CHASE

Collard, I (C); +Wright, T (Lab); Pinkett, J (LD); Jenkins, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,704 (26.07%).

CANTERBURY

+Brazier, J (C); Hilton, A (Lab); Barnard-Langston, J (LD); Meaden, G (Green);
van de Benderskum, R (LCA); Moore, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,069 (4.58%).

CARDIFF CENTRAL

Mohindra, G (C); +Jones, J O (Lab Co-op); Willott, J (LD); Grigg, R (PC); Beany,
C (Bean); Savoury, A (Ind); Raiz, R G (Respect); Hughes, F (UKIP);
Taylor-Dawson, C (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 659 (1.89%).

CARDIFF NORTH

Morgan, J (C); +Morgan, J (Lab); Dixon, J (LD); Rowlands, J (PC); Hobbs, A
(FWP); Hulston, D (UKIP); Taylor-Dawson, C (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,165 (14.26%).

CARDIFF SOUTH & PENARTH

Green, V (C); +Michael, A (Lab Co-op); Cox, G (LD); Toby, J (PC); Matthews, J
(Green); Taylor, A (Ind); Bartlett, D (Soc Alt); Tuttle, J (UKIP);
Taylor-Dawson, C (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 12,287 (34.37%).

CARDIFF WEST

Baker, S (C); +Brennan, K (Lab); Goldsworthy, A (LD); McEvoy, N (PC); Callan, J
(UKIP); Taylor-Dawson, C (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,321 (33.22%).

CARLISLE Mitchelson, M (C); +Martlew, E (Lab); Tweedie, S (LD); Gibson, L (LCA);
Cochrane, S (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,702 (16.33%).

CARMARTHEN EAST & DINEFWR Davies, S (C); Hendry, R (Lab); Hughes, J (LD);
+Price, A (PC); Whitworth, S (LCA); Squires, M (UKIP).

2001 PC Maj: 2,590 (6.81%).

CARMARTHEN WEST & PEMBROKESHIRE SOUTH Morris, D (C); +Ainger, N (Lab); Allen, J
(LD); Dixon, J (PC); Daszak, A (LCA); Turner, N (ND); MacDonald, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,538 (12.29%).

CARSHALTON & WALLINGTON Andrew, K (C); Theobald, A (Lab); +Brake, T (LD); Steel,
B (Green); Day, F (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 4,547 (11.20%).

CASTLE POINT +Spink, B (C); Akehurst, L (Lab); Sandbach, J (LD); Willis, I
(Green); Hamper, N (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 985 (2.48%).

CEREDIGION Harrison, J (C); Davies, A (Lab); Williams, M (LD); +Thomas, S (PC);
Bradney, D (Green).

2001 PC Maj: 3,944 (11.40%).

CHARNWOOD +Dorrell, S (C); Robinson, R (Lab); King, S (LD); Holders, A (BNP);
Bye, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 7,739 (16.03%).

CHATHAM & AYLESFORD Jobson, A (C); +Shaw, J (Lab); Enever, D (LD); Russell, M
(England); King, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,340 (10.92%).

CHEADLE Day, S (C); Miller, M (Lab); +Calton, P (LD); Chadfield, R (BNP);
Cavanagh, V (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 33 (0.08%).

CHELMSFORD WEST +Burns, S (C); Kennedy, R (Lab); Robinson, S (LD); Wedon, K (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 6,261 (13.01%).

CHELTENHAM Gearson, V (C); Evans, C (Lab); Horwood, M (LD); Bessant, K (Green);
Hodges, R (Ind); Hanks, D (Loony); Warry, T (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 5,255 (12.56%).

CHESHAM & AMERSHAM +Gillan, C (C); Huq, R (Lab); Ford, J (LD); Wilkins, N
(Green); Samuel-Camps, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 11,882 (26.24%).

CHESTER, CITY OF Offer, P (C); +Russell, C (Lab); Jones, M (LD); Abrams, E (Eng
Dem); Weddell, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,894 (15.36%).

CHESTERFIELD Kreling, M (C); Rich, S (Lab); +Holmes, P (LD); Jerram, I (Eng
Dem); Brady, C (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 2,586 (5.82%).

CHICHESTER +Tyrie, A (C); Austin, J (Lab); Hilliar, A (LD); Denny, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 11,355 (22.90%).

CHINGFORD & WOODFORD GREEN +Duncan Smith, I (C); Wright, S (Lab); Beanse, J
(LD); McGough, M (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 5,487 (14.84%).

CHIPPING BARNET Villiers, T (C); Coakley-Webb, P (Lab); Hooker, S (LD); Poppy, A
(Green); Kaye, V (UKIP); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).

2001 C Maj: 2,701 (6.36%).

CHORLEY Mallett, S (C); +Hoyle, L (Lab); Wilson-Fletcher, A (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,444 (17.61%).

CHRISTCHURCH +Chope, C (C); King, J (Lab); Coman, L (LD); Hughes, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 13,544 (27.32%).

CITIES OF LONDON & WESTMINSTER +Field, M (C); Lloyd, H (Lab); Rossi, M L (LD);
Smith, T (Green); McLachlan, J (CPA); Haw, B (Ind); Merton, C (UKIP); Harris, D
(Veritas).

2001 C Maj: 4,499 (13.24%).

CLEETHORPES Vickers, M (C); +McIsaac, S (Lab); Lowis, G (LD); Hardie, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,620 (13.25%).

CLWYD SOUTH Biggins, T (C); +Jones, M (Lab); Burnham, D (LD); Strong, M (PC);
Humphreys, A (FWP); Powell, N (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,898 (26.56%).

CLWYD WEST Jones, D (C); +Thomas, G (Lab); Taylor, F (LD); Williams, E (PC);
James, J (Ind); Keenan, P (Soc Lab); Nicholson, W (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 1,115 (3.22%).

COATBRIDGE, CHRYSTON & BELLSHILL Paterson, L (C); +Clarke, T (Lab); Ackland, R
(LD); Ross, D (SNP); Kinloch, J (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 22,092 (54.55%).

COLCHESTER Bentley, K (C); Bruni, L (Lab); +Russell, B (LD).

2001 LD Maj: 5,553 (12.70%).

COLNE VALLEY Throup, M (C); +Mountford, K (Lab); Wilson, E (LD); Hedges, L
(Green); Fowler, B (BNP); Mumford, I (Loony); Martinek, H (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,639 (9.87%).

CONGLETON +Winterton, A (C); Milton, N (Lab); Key, E (LD).

2001 C Maj: 7,134 (15.82%).

CONWY Bebb, G (C); +Williams, B (Lab); Roberts, G (LD); Rowlinson, P (PC);
Killock, J (Green); Evans, T (LCA); Lloyd Jones, D (Soc Lab); Khambatta, K (UKIP
).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,219 (18.10%).

COPELAND Whiteside, C (C); Reed, J (Lab); Hollowell, F (LD); Mossop, A (Eng
Dem); Earley, B (Ind); Caley-Knowles, E (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,964 (14.28%).

CORBY Griffith, A (C); +Hope, P (Lab Co-op); Radcliffe, D (LD); Morris, J (Ind);
Carey, S (Soc Lab); Gillman, I (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 5,700 (12.07%).

CORNWALL NORTH Formosa, M (C); Acton, D (Lab); Rogerson, D (LD); Cole, D (Meb
Ker); Campbell-Bannerman, D (UKIP); Eastwood, A (Veritas).

2001 LD Maj: 9,832 (18.21%).

CORNWALL SOUTH EAST Gray, A (C); Binley, C (Lab); +Breed, C (LD); Sandercock, G
(Meb Ker); Lucas, D (UKIP); Assheton-Salton, A (Veritas).

2001 LD Maj: 5,375 (10.39%).

COTSWOLD +Clifton-Brown, G (C); Dempsey, M (Lab); Beckerlegge, P (LD); Derieg, J
(Ind); Buckley, R (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 11,983 (26.06%).

COVENTRY NORTH EAST Singh Birdi, J (C); +Ainsworth, B (Lab); Field, R (LD);
Nellist, D (Soc Alt); Sootheran, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,751 (42.27%).

COVENTRY NORTH WEST Connell, B (C); +Robinson, G (Lab); Anderson, I (LD);
Clarke, D (BNP); Downes, N (Soc Alt); List, S (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,874 (25.56%).

COVENTRY SOUTH Wheeler, H (C); +Cunningham, J (Lab); McKee, V (LD); Rooney, J
(FFUK); Rogers, I (Ind); Windsor, R (Soc Alt); Brown, W (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,279 (20.65%).

CRAWLEY Smith, H (C); +Moffatt, L (Lab); Sheard, R (LD); Burnham, R (Dem Soc
All); Khan, A (JP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,770 (17.13%).

CREWE & NANTWICH Moore-Dutton, E (C); +Dunwoody, G (Lab); Roberts, P (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,906 (23.84%).

CROSBY Jones, D (C); +Curtis-Thomas, C (Lab); Murray, J (LD); Braid, D (Clause
28); Bottoms, G (Comm); Whittaker, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,353 (22.66%).

CROYDON CENTRAL Pelling, A (C); +Davies, G (Lab); Hargreaves, J (LD); Golberg, B
(Green); Cartwright, J (Loony); Edwards, I (UKIP); Bowness, M (Veritas); Stears,
J (Work).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,984 (8.69%).

CROYDON NORTH Ahmad, T (C); +Wicks, M (Lab); Gee-Turner, A (LD); Khan, S
(Green); Gibson, P (Croydon); Rasheed, F (Ind); Pearce, H (UKIP); McKenzie, W
(Veritas); Chambers, M (Work).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,858 (40.25%).

CROYDON SOUTH +Ottaway, R (C); Smith, P (Lab); Lawman, S (LD); Feisenberger, J (
UKIP); Dare, G (Veritas); Samuel, M (Work).

2001 C Maj: 8,697 (19.30%).

CUMBERNAULD, KILSYTH & KIRKINTILLOCH EAST Boswell, J (C); +McKenna, R (Lab);
O'Donnell, H (LD); Hepburn, J (SNP); Elliott, P (OCV); O'Neill, W (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,667 (31.79%).

CYNON VALLEY Dunn, A (C); +Clwyd, A (Lab); Phelps, M (LD); Benney, G (PC);
Davies, S (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,998 (48.22%).

* D.

DAGENHAM White, M (C); +Cruddas, J (Lab); Kempton, J (LD); Rustem, L (BNP);
Batten, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,693 (31.52%).

DARLINGTON Frieze, A (C); +Milburn, A (Lab); Adamson, R (LD); Hoodless, J (UKIP
); Davies, D (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,384 (26.03%).

DARTFORD Johnson, G (C); +Stoate, H (Lab); Bucklitsch, P (LD); Tibby, M (NEP);
Croucher, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,306 (7.39%).

DAVENTRY +Boswell, T (C); Hammond, A (Lab); Saul, H (LD); Mahoney, B (UKIP);
Wilkins, B (Veritas).

2001 C Maj: 9,649 (17.02%).

DELYN Bell, J (C); +Hanson, D (Lab); Jones, T (LD); Thomas, P (PC); Williams, N
(Ind); Crawford, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,605 (24.84%).

DENTON & REDDISH Story, A (C); Gwynne, A (Lab); Seabourne, A (LD); Edgar, J
(BNP); Price, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,330 (45.63%).

DERBY NORTH Aitken-Davies, R (C); +Laxton, B (Lab); Beckett, J (LD); Medgyesy, M
(UKIP); Bardoe, M (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,982 (15.85%).

DERBY SOUTH Brackenbury, D (C); +Beckett, M (Lab); Care, L (LD); Black, D (UKIP
); Leeming, F (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,855 (32.16%).

DERBYSHIRE NORTH EAST Johnson, D (C); Engel, N (Lab); Snowdon, T (LD); Perkins,
K (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,258 (29.10%).

DERBYSHIRE SOUTH Spencer, S (C); +Todd, M (Lab); Newton-Cook, D (LD); Joines, D
(BNP); Spalton, R (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,851 (15.11%).

DERBYSHIRE WEST +McLoughlin, P (C); Menon, D (Lab); Dring, R (LD); Kyslun, M
(Ind); Delves, N (Loony); Cruddas, M (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 7,370 (14.57%).

DEVIZES +Ancram, M (C); Charity, S (Lab); Hornby, F (LD); Wood, A (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 11,896 (22.34%).

DEVON EAST +Swire, H (C); Court, J (Lab); Dumper, T (LD); Way, C (Ind T);
McNamee, C (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,195 (17.13%).

DEVON NORTH Fraser, O (C); Cann, M (Lab); +Harvey, N (LD); Knight, R (Green);
Browne, J (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 2,984 (6.06%).

DEVON SOUTH WEST +Streeter, G (C); Mavin, C (Lab); Evans, J (LD); Williams, H (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 7,144 (15.23%).

DEVON WEST & TORRIDGE Cox, G (C); Richards, R (Lab); Walter, D (LD); Christie, P
(Green); Jackson, M (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 1,194 (2.14%).

DEWSBURY Warsi, S (C); Malik, S (Lab); Hill, K (LD); Smithson, B (Green); Exley,
D (BNP); Girvan, A (Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,449 (20.32%).

DON VALLEY Duguid, A (C); +Flint, C (Lab); Arnold, S (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,520 (25.99%).

DONCASTER CENTRAL Kerner, S (C); +Winterton, R (Lab); Wilson, P (LD); Wilkinson,
J (BNP); Simmons, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,999 (35.39%).

DONCASTER NORTH Drake, M (C); Miliband, E (Lab); Pickett, D (LD); Haggan, L
(BNP); Williams, M (CG); Cassidy, M (England); Nixon, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,187 (48.42%).

DORSET MID & POOLE NORTH Hayes, S (C); Murray, P (Lab); +Brooke, A (LD); King, A
(UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 384 (0.88%).

DORSET NORTH +Walter, R (C); Yarwood, J (Lab); Gasson, E (LD); Arliss, R
(Green); Frampton Hobbs, R (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,797 (7.94%).

DORSET SOUTH Matts, E (C); +Knight, J (Lab); Oakes, G (LD); Hamilton, V (LCA);
Kirkwood, A (PRTYP); Parkes, B (Respect); Marchesi, D (Soc Lab); Chalker, H (
UKIP); Bex, C (Wessex Reg).

2001 Lab Maj: 153 (0.34%).

DORSET WEST +Letwin, O (C); Roberts, D (Lab); McGuinness, J (LD); Greene, S
(Green); Guest, L (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 1,414 (2.85%).

DOVER Watkins, P (C); +Prosser, G (Lab); Hook, A (LD); Matcham, V (Ind);
Wiltshire, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,199 (11.56%).

DOWN NORTH Robertson, J (C); +Hermon, S (UUP); Weir, P (DUP); Logan, L (SDLP);
McCrowry, J (SF); Alderdice, D (Alliance); Carter, C (Ind).

2001 UUP Maj: 7,324 (19.69%).

DOWN SOUTH Nesbitt, D (UUP); Wells, J (DUP); +McGrady, E (SDLP); Ruane, C (SF);
Crozier, J (Alliance).

2001 SDLP Maj: 13,858 (26.61%).

DUDLEY NORTH Hillas, I (C); Austin, I (Lab); Lewis, G (LD); Darby, S (BNP);
Davis, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,800 (17.63%).

DUDLEY SOUTH Longhi, M (C); +Pearson, I (Lab); Bramall, J (LD); Salvage, J
(BNP); Benion, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,817 (18.76%).

DULWICH & WEST NORWOOD Humphreys, K (C); +Jowell, T (Lab); Mitchell, J (LD);
Jones, J (Green); Weleminsky, J (Fit); Rose, A (Soc Lab); Atkinson, R (UKIP);
Heather, D (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,310 (32.19%).

DUMFRIES & GALLOWAY +Duncan, P (C); +Brown, R (Lab); Legg, K (LD); Henderson, D
(SNP); Schofield, J (Green); Smith, M (OCV); Dennis, J (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 141 (0.28%).

DUMFRIESSHIRE, CLYDESDALE & TWEEDDALE Mundell, D (C); Marshall, S (Lab); Kenton,
P (LD); Wood, A (SNP); MacTavish, S (SSP); Lee, T (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,254 (12.06%).

DUNBARTONSHIRE EAST Jack, D (C); +Lyons, J (Lab); Swinson, J (LD); Sagan, C
(SNP); Callison, J (Green); Page, P (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,601 (6.29%).

DUNBARTONSHIRE WEST Murdoch, C (C); +McFall, J (Lab Co-op); Walker, N (LD);
Chalmers, T (SNP); Dawson, M (OCV); Robertson, L (SSP); Maher, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 18,169 (39.49%).

DUNDEE EAST Bustin, C (C); +Luke, I (Lab); Sneddon, C (LD); Hosie, S (SNP);
Allison, D (Ind); Duke, H (SSP); Low, D (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 496 (1.29%).

DUNDEE WEST McKinlay, C (C); McGovern, J (Lab); Garry, N (LD); Fitzpatrick, J
(SNP); McFarlane, J (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,410 (22.54%).

DUNFERMLINE & FIFE WEST Smillie, R (C); +Squire, R (Lab); Herbert, D (LD);
Chapman, D (SNP); Archibald, S (SSP); Borland, I (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,845 (36.64%).

DURHAM NORTH Watson, M (C); +Jones, K (Lab); Latham, P (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 18,683 (48.44%).

DURHAM NORTH WEST Devlin, J (C); +Armstrong, H (Lab); Ord, A (LD); Stelling, W
(Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,333 (41.64%).

DURHAM, CITY OF Rogers, B (C); Blackman-Woods, R (Lab); Woods, C (LD); Martin, A
(Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,441 (32.40%).

* E.

EALING ACTON & SHEPHERD'S BUSH Gough, J (C); Slaughter, A (Lab); Malcolm, G
(LD); Burgess, G (Green).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,789 (29.00%).

EALING NORTH Curtis, R (C); +Pound, S (Lab); Fruzza, F (LD); Outten, A (Green);
Lambert, R (UKIP); Malindine, D (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,837 (26.33%).

EALING SOUTHALL Nicholson, M (C); +Khabra, P (Lab); Bakhai, N (LD); Edwards, S
(Green); Bilku, M (WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,683 (29.22%).

EASINGTON Nicholson, L (C); +Cummings, J (Lab); Ord, C (LD); McDonald, I (BNP);
Robinson, D (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 21,949 (66.49%).

EAST HAM Macken, S (C); +Timms, S (Lab); Haigh, A (LD); Bamber, D (CPA); Mian, A
K (Respect).

2001 Lab Maj: 21,032 (56.42%).

EAST KILBRIDE, STRATHAVEN & LESMAHAGOW Lewis, T (C); +Ingram, A (Lab); Oswald, J
(LD); Edwards, D (SNP); Robb, K (Green); Gentle, R (Ind); Houston, J (Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,999 (29.29%).

EAST LOTHIAN Stevenson, W (C); +Picking, A (Lab); Butler, C (LD); McLennan, P
(SNP); Collie, M (Green); Thompson, W (OCV); Galbraith, G (SSP); Robb, E (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,011 (31.73%).

EASTBOURNE +Waterson, N (C); Jones, A (Lab); Lloyd, S (LD); Gross, C (Green);
Meggs, A (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,154 (4.81%).

EASTLEIGH Burns, C (C); Watt, C (Lab); Huhne, C (LD); Murphy, C (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 3,058 (6.43%).

ECCLES Matuk, T (C); +Stewart, I (Lab); Brophy, J (LD); Reeve, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,528 (43.78%).

EDDISBURY +O'Brien, S (C); Green, M (Lab); Crotty, J (LD); Roxborough, S (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,568 (10.29%).

EDINBURGH EAST Brown, M (C); +Strang, G (Lab); Mackenzie, G (LD); Tymkewycz, S
(SNP); Gillespie, C (Green); Harris, B (DDTP); Clifford, P (ND); Grant, C (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,808 (32.56%).

EDINBURGH NORTH & LEITH Whyte, I (C); +Lazarowicz, M (Lab Co-op); Crockart, M
(LD); Hutchison, D (SNP); Sydenham, M (Green); Scott, B (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,688 (21.56%).

EDINBURGH SOUTH Brown, G (C); +Griffiths, N (Lab); MacLaren, M (LD); Sutherland,
G (SNP); Burgess, S (Green); Robertson, M (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,785 (13.95%).

EDINBURGH SOUTH WEST Buchan, G (C); +Darling, A (Lab); Clark, S (LD);
Elliott-Cannon, N (SNP); Blair-Fish, J (Green); Smith, P (SSP); Boys, W (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,951 (17.91%).

EDINBURGH WEST Brogan, D (C); Ghaleigh, N (Lab); +Barrett, J (LD); Cleland, S
(SNP); Spindler, A (Green); Clark, G (SSP).

2001 LD Maj: 5,320 (11.86%).

EDMONTON Zetter, L (C); +Love, A (Lab Co-op); Kilbane-Dawe, I (LD); Armstrong, N
(Green); Rolph, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 9,772 (28.10%).

ELLESMERE PORT & NESTON Hogg, M (C); +Miller, A (Lab); Cooke, S (LD); Crocker, H
(UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,861 (26.15%).

ELMET Millard, A (C); +Burgon, C (Lab); Kirk, M (LD); Andrews, T (BNP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,171 (9.08%).

ELTHAM Drury, S (C); +Efford, C (Lab); Gerrard, I (LD); Roberts, B (BNP);
Graham, A (Ind); Elms, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,996 (20.70%).

ENFIELD NORTH de Bois, N (C); +Ryan, J (Lab); Radford, S (LD); Farr, T (BNP);
Burns, P (Ind); Robbens, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,291 (5.98%).

ENFIELD SOUTHGATE Burrowes, D (C); +Twigg, S (Lab); Kakoulakis, Z (LD); Doughty,
T (Green); Hall, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,546 (13.23%).

EPPING FOREST +Laing, E (C); Charalambous, B (Lab); Heavens, M (LD); Leppert, J
(BNP); Tibrook, R (Eng Dem); Smith, A (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,426 (19.87%).

EPSOM & EWELL +Grayling, C (C); Mansell, C (Lab); Lees, J (LD); Kefford, P (UKIP
).

2001 C Maj: 10,080 (21.61%).

EREWASH Simmonds, D (C); +Blackman, L (Lab); Garnett, M (LD); Graham, S (BNP);
Bishop, D (Elvis); Seerius, R (Loony); Kingscott, G (UKIP); Kilroy-Silk, R
(Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,932 (14.26%).

ERITH & THAMESMEAD Bromby, C (C); +Austin, J (Lab); Toole, S (LD); Ravenscroft,
B (BNP); Thomas, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,167 (33.48%).

ESHER & WALTON +Taylor, I (C); Taylor, R (Lab); Marsh, M (LD); Chinnery, C
(Loony); Cutler, R (Soc Lab); Collignon, B (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 11,538 (25.34%).

ESSEX NORTH +Jenkin, B (C); Hughes, E (Lab); Raven, J (LD); Fox, C (Green);
Curtis, G (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 7,186 (15.99%).

EXETER Cox, P (C); +Bradshaw, B (Lab); Underwood, J (LD); Brenan, T (Green);
Stuart, J (Ind); Danks, M (Lib); Fitzgeorge-Parker, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,759 (22.35%).

* F.

FALKIRK Potts, D (C); +Joyce, E (Lab); Chomczuk, C (LD); Love, L (SNP); Quinlan,
D (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,555 (30.17%).

FALMOUTH & CAMBORNE Crossley, A (C); +Atherton, C (Lab); Goldsworthy, J (LD);
Mudd, D (Ind); Holmes, P (Lib); Smith, R (Masts); Wasley, H (Meb Ker); Mahon, M
(UKIP); Gifford, P (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,527 (9.67%).

FAREHAM +Hoban, M (C); Carr, J (Lab); De Ste-Croix, R (LD); Mason-Apps, P (UKIP
).

2001 C Maj: 7,009 (15.42%).

FAVERSHAM & KENT MID +Robertson, H (C); Bradstock, A (Lab); Naghi, D (LD);
Davidson, N (Loony); Thompson, R (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,183 (10.19%).

FELTHAM & HESTON Bowen, M (C); +Keen, A (Lab Co-op); Khalsa, S K (LD); Anstis, E
(Green); Prachar, W (Ind); Kemp, G (NF); Mullett, L (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 12,657 (34.99%).

FERMANAGH & SOUTH TYRONE Elliott, T (UUP); Foster, A (DUP); Gallagher, T (SDLP);
+Gildernew, M (SF).

2001 SF Maj: 53 (0.10%).

FIFE NORTH EAST Scott-Hayward, M (C); King, T (Lab); +Campbell, M (LD);
Campbell, R (SNP); Park, J (Green); Ferguson, J (SSP); Pickard, D (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 9,686 (26.20%).

FINCHLEY & GOLDERS GREEN Mennear, A (C); +Vis, R (Lab); Garden, S (LD); Lynch, N
(Green); Jacobs, J (UKIP); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,716 (8.51%).


FOLKESTONE & HYTHE +Howard, M (C); Tomison, M (Lab); Carroll, P (LD); Dawe, H
(Green); Hylton-Potts, R (GBB); Jug, T (Loony); Dunn, S (Progress); Leon-Smith,
G (Senior); Holdsworth, P (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 5,907 (12.88%).

FOREST OF DEAN Harper, M (C); Owen, I (Lab); Coleman, C (LD); Tweedie, S
(Green); Morgan, G (EEP); Reeve, A (Ind); Hill, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,049 (4.59%).

FOYLE Storey, E (UUP); Hay, W (DUP); Durkan, M (SDLP); McLaughlin, M (SF);
McCann, E (Soc EA); Reel, B (Vote Dream).

2001 SDLP Maj: 11,550 (23.63%).

FYLDE +Jack, M (C); Parbury, W (Lab); Winlow, B (LD); Akeroyd, T (Lib).

2001 C Maj: 9,610 (21.48%).

* G.

GAINSBOROUGH +Leigh, E (C); Knight, J (Lab); Heath, A (LD); Pearson, S (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,071 (19.07%).

GATESHEAD EAST & WASHINGTON WEST Martin, L (C); Hodgson, S (Lab); Hindle, F
(LD); Batty, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 17,904 (53.26%).

GEDLING Soubry, A (C); +Coaker, V (Lab); Poynter, R (LD); Margerison, A (UKIP);
Johnson, D (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,598 (12.78%).

GILLINGHAM Butcher, T (C); +Clark, P (Lab); Stamp, A (LD); Bryan, G (Ind);
Mackinlay, C (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,272 (5.38%).

GLASGOW CENTRAL Sullivan, R (C); +Sarwar, M (Lab); Nelson, I (LD); Kidd, B
(SNP); Masterton, G (Green); Hamilton, W (BNP); McKenzie, E (Comm Brit); Greig,
T (OCV); Gordon, M (SSP); Johnson, I (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,382 (33.82%).

GLASGOW EAST Thomson, C (C); +Marshall, D (Lab); Jackson, D (LD); McNeill, L
(SNP); Savage, G (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,238 (46.62%).

GLASGOW NORTH Pope, B (C); +McKechin, A (Lab); Rodger, A (LD); McLean, K (SNP);
Bartos, M (Green); Tarlton, N (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,023 (29.36%).

GLASGOW NORTH EAST McLaughlin, J (SNP); McLean, S (BNP); Chambers, J (Ind);
Campbell, G (SSP); Houston, D (Scot U); Kelly, D (Soc Lab); +Martin, M
(Speaker).

2001 Speaker Maj: 15,203 (48.90%).

GLASGOW NORTH WEST Roxburgh, M (C); +Robertson, J (Lab); Graham, P (LD); Hendry,
G (SNP); Wardrop, M (Green); Irwin, A (SSP); Muir, C (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,231 (38.83%).

GLASGOW SOUTH McAlpine, J (C); +Harris, T (Lab); Sanderson, A (LD); MacLean, F
(SNP); Allan, K (Green); Stevenson, R (SSP); Entwistle, D (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,042 (33.15%).

GLASGOW SOUTH WEST Brady, S (C); +Davidson, I (Lab Co-op); Gordon, K (LD);
Dornan, J (SNP); McConnachie, A (Ind Green); Baldassara, K (SSP); Shaw, V (Soc
Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,687 (44.42%).

GLENROTHES Don, B (C); +MacDougall, J (Lab); Riches, E (LD); Beare, J (SNP);
Rodger, G (PPS); Balfour, M (SSP); Smith, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,988 (33.95%).

GLOUCESTER James, P (C); +Dhanda, P (Lab); Hilton, J (LD); Meloy, B (Green);
Phipps, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,880 (8.05%).

GORDON Atkinson, P (C); Brotchie, I (Lab); +Bruce, M (LD); Strathdee, J (SNP);
Paterson, T (SSP).

2001 LD Maj: 6,845 (17.36%).

GOSPORT +Viggers, P (C); Williams, R (Lab); Roberts, R (LD); Smith, A (Green);
Bowles, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,621 (6.59%).

GOWER Murray, M (C); +Caton, M (Lab); Tregoning, N (LD); Caiach, S (PC);
Griffiths, R (Green); Lewis, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,395 (19.80%).

GRANTHAM & STAMFORD +Davies, Q (C); Selby, I (Lab); O'Connor, P (LD); Andrews, J
(CRD); Brown, B (Eng Dem); Rising, S (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,518 (9.76%).

GRAVESHAM Holloway, A (C); +Pond, C (Lab); Parmenter, B (LD); Nickerson, C (Eng
Ind); Coates, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,862 (11.14%).

GREAT GRIMSBY Taylor, G (C); +Mitchell, A (Lab); de Freitas, A (LD); Brooks, D
(Green); Fyfe, S (BNP); Grant, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,484 (34.78%).

GREAT YARMOUTH Fox, M (C); +Wright, A (Lab); Newton, S (LD); Skipper, M (LCA);
Poole, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,564 (11.31%).

GREENWICH & WOOLWICH Craig, A (C); +Raynsford, N (Lab); Le Breton, C (LD);
Sharman, D (Green); Bushell, G (Eng Dem); Nagalingam, P (Ind); Gain, S (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,433 (41.29%).

GUILDFORD Milton, A (C); Landles, K (Lab); +Doughty, S (LD); Pletts, J (Green);
Lavin, V (Ind); Morris, J (PPN-V); Haslam, M (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 538 (1.12%).

* H.

HACKNEY NORTH & STOKE NEWINGTON Hurer, E (C); +Abbott, D (Lab); Blanchard, J
(LD); Borris, M (Green); Vail, D (Ind); Barrow, N (Loony); Sen, N (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,651 (46.09%).

HACKNEY SOUTH & SHOREDITCH Moss, J (C); Hillier, M (Lab Co-op); Bayliss, H (LD);
dan Iyan, I (Green); Goldman, M (Comm); Rae, B (Lib); Ryan, D (Respect); Leff, J
(WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,049 (49.59%).

HALESOWEN & ROWLEY REGIS Jones, L (C); +Heal, S (Lab); Turner, M (LD);
Sinclaire, N (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,359 (18.74%).

HALIFAX Hopkins, K (C); Riordan, L (Lab Co-op); Taylor, M (LD); Wallace, G
(BNP); Holmes, T (NF).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,129 (15.17%).

HALTEMPRICE & HOWDEN +Davis, D (C); Hart, E (Lab); Neal, J (LD); Mainprize, J
(BNP); Lane, P (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 1,903 (4.33%).

HALTON Bloom, C C (C); +Twigg, D (Lab); Barlow, R (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 17,428 (50.56%).

HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM Hands, G (C); Smallman, M (Lab); Bullion, A (LD); Harrold,
F (Green); Fisher, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,015 (4.51%).

HAMPSHIRE EAST +Mates, M (C); Broughton, M (Lab); Bright, R (LD); Samuel, D (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,890 (17.68%).

HAMPSHIRE NORTH EAST +Arbuthnot, J (C); McGrath, K (Lab); Carew, A (LD); Birch,
P (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 13,257 (30.17%).

HAMPSHIRE NORTH WEST +Young, G (C); Mumford, M (Lab); Tod, M (LD); Sumner, P (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 12,009 (24.69%).

HAMPSTEAD & HIGHGATE Wauchope, P (C); +Jackson, G (Lab); Fordham, E (LD); Berry,
S (Green); Nielsen, M (UKIP); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,876 (22.24%).

HARBOROUGH +Garnier, E (C); Evans, P (Lab); Hope, J (LD); King, M (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 5,252 (11.31%).

HARLOW Halfon, R (C); +Rammell, B (Lab); Spenceley, L (LD); Felgate, J (UKIP);
Bennett, A (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,228 (13.03%).

HARROGATE & KNARESBOROUGH Punyer, M (C); Ferris, L (Lab); +Willis, P (LD);
Allman, J (AFC); Banner, C (BNP); Royston, C (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 8,845 (20.97%).

HARROW EAST Ashton, D (C); +McNulty, T (Lab); Nandhra, P (LD); Cronin, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,124 (23.14%).

HARROW WEST Freer, M (C); +Thomas, G (Lab Co-op); Noyce, C (LD); Daver, B (Ind);
Cronin, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,156 (13.20%).

HARTLEPOOL Vigar, A (C); +Wright, I (Lab); Dunn, J (LD); Headbanger, S S
(Loony); Harrison, F (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,571 (38.29%).

HARWICH Carswell, D (C); +Henderson, I (Lab); Tully, K (LD); Humphrey, C (ND);
Tipple, J (Respect); Titford, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,596 (5.40%).

HASTINGS & RYE Coote, M (C); +Foster, M (Lab); Stevens, R (LD); Phillips, S
(Green); Ord-Clarke, J (Loony); Grant, T (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,308 (10.45%).

HAVANT +Willetts, D (C); Bogle, S (Lab); Bentley, A (LD); Dawes, T (Green);
Johnson, I (BNP); Harris, S (UKIP); Russell, T (Veritas).

2001 C Maj: 4,207 (10.40%).

HAYES & HARLINGTON Worrall, R (C); +McDonnell, J (Lab); Ball, J (LD); Outten, B
(Green); Hazel, T (BNP); Goddard, P (Ind); Haley, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,466 (41.56%).

HAZEL GROVE White, A (C); Graystone, A (Lab); +Stunell, A (LD); Ryan, K (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 8,435 (21.92%).

HEMEL HEMPSTEAD Penning, M (C); +McWalter, T (Lab Co-op); Grayson, R (LD);
Newton, B (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 3,742 (8.16%).

HEMSWORTH Mortimer, J (C); +Trickett, J (Lab); Hall-Matthews, D (LD); Burdon, H
(Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,636 (44.39%).

HENDON Evans, R (C); +Dismore, A (Lab); Boethe, N (LD); Williams, D (Green);
Stewart, M (PDP); Smallman, M (UKIP); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,417 (18.16%).

HENLEY +Johnson, A (C); Saeed, K (Lab); Turner, D (LD); Stevenson, M (Green);
Gray-Fisk, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,458 (19.05%).

HEREFORD Taylor, V (C); Calver, T (Lab); +Keetch, P (LD); Lunt, B (Green);
Kingsley, C (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 968 (2.17%).

HERTFORD & STORTFORD +Prisk, M (C); Henry, R (Lab); Lucas, J (LD); Hart, P
(Green); Sodey, D (UKIP); Lemay, D (Veritas).

2001 C Maj: 5,603 (11.88%).

HERTFORDSHIRE NORTH EAST +Heald, O (C); Harrop, A (Lab); Coleman, I (LD);
Hitchman, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,444 (7.71%).

HERTFORDSHIRE SOUTH WEST Gauke, D (C); Cross, K (Lab); Featherstone, E (LD);
Rodden, C (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,181 (17.31%).

HERTSMERE +Clappison, J (C); Tebb, K (Lab); Davies, J (LD); Dry, J (Soc Lab).

2001 C Maj: 4,902 (11.81%).

HEXHAM +Atkinson, P (C); Graham, K (Lab); Duffield, A (LD); Riddell, I (Eng
Dem); Davison, T (IP).

2001 C Maj: 2,529 (5.96%).

HEYWOOD & MIDDLETON Pathmarajah, S (C); +Dobbin, J (Lab Co-op); Lavin, C (LD);
Aronsson, G (BNP); Burke, P (Lib); Whittaker, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 11,670 (30.09%).

HIGH PEAK Bingham, A (C); +Levitt, T (Lab); Godwin, M (LD); Schwartz, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,489 (9.33%).

HITCHIN & HARPENDEN +Lilley, P (C); Orrett, P (Lab); Hedges, H (LD); Rigby, E
(Ind); Saunders, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 6,663 (14.83%).

HOLBORN & ST PANCRAS James, M (C); +Dobson, F (Lab); Fraser, J (LD); Oliver, A
(Green); Weiss, G (Vote Dream).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,175 (35.90%).

HORNCHURCH Brokenshire, J (C); +Cryer, J (Lab); Green, N (LD); Moore, I (BNP);
Brown, M (RA); Williamson, G (Third); Webb, L (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 1,482 (4.17%).

HORNSEY & WOOD GREEN Forrest, P (C); +Roche, B (Lab); Featherstone, L (LD);
Forbes, J (Green); Freshwater, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,614 (24.09%).

HORSHAM +Maude, F (C); Chishti, R (Lab); Sharpley, R (LD); Duggan, J (PJP);
Miller, H (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 13,666 (26.92%).

HOUGHTON & WASHINGTON EAST Devenish, A (C); +Kemp, F (Lab); Greenfield, M (LD);
Richardson, J (BNP).

2001 Lab Maj: 19,818 (58.91%).

HOVE Boles, N (C); Barlow, C (Lab); Elgood, P (LD); Ballam, A (Green); Dobbs, B
(Ind); Ralfe, B (Ind); O'Keefe, P (Respect); Franklin, R (Silent); Bower, S (
UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,171 (7.55%).

HUDDERSFIELD Meacock, D (C); +Sheerman, B (Lab Co-op); Bone, E (LD);
Stewart-Turner, J (Green); Hanson, K (BNP); Quarmby, T (Ind).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 10,046 (28.39%).

HULL EAST Lindsay, K (C); +Prescott, J (Lab); Sloan, A (LD); Siddle, A (BNP);
Noon, R (Ind); Wagner, C (LCA); Toker, J (Lib); Morris, G (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,325 (49.64%).

HULL NORTH Rivlin, L (C); Johnson, D (Lab); Healy, D (LD); Deane, M (Green);
Wainwright, B (BNP); Wagner, C (LCA); Veasey, C (Northern); Robinson, T
(Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,721 (37.44%).

HULL WEST & HESSLE Woods, K (C); +Johnson, A (Lab); Nolan, D (LD); Wallis, S
(Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,951 (37.87%).

HUNTINGDON +Djanogly, J (C); Sartain, S (Lab); Huppert, J (LD); Norman, D (UKIP
).

2001 C Maj: 12,792 (26.06%).

HYNDBURN Mawdsley, J (C); +Pope, G (Lab); Greene, B (LD); Jackson, C (BNP);
Whittaker, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,219 (21.49%).

* I.

ILFORD NORTH Scott, L (C); +Perham, L (Lab); Gayler, M (LD); Levin, M (Ind);
Cross, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 2,115 (5.26%).

ILFORD SOUTH Metcalfe, S (C); +Gapes, M (Lab Co-op); Lake, M (LD); Rana, K
(BPP); Taylor, C (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 13,997 (33.90%).

INVERCLYDE Fraser, G (C); +Cairns, D (Lab); Herbison, D (LD); McMillan, S (SNP);
Landels, D (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,314 (29.06%).

INVERNESS, NAIRN, BADENOCH & STRATHSPEY Rowantree, R (C); +Stewart, D (Lab);
Alexander, D (LD); Thompson, D (SNP); MacLeod, D (Green); Lawson, D (Publican);
MacDonald, G (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 1,134 (2.65%).

IPSWICH West, P (C); +Mole, C (Lab); Atkins, R (LD); Kay, J (Eng Dem); Wainman,
S (Ind); West, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,081 (20.79%).

ISLE OF WIGHT +Turner, A (C); Chiverton, M (Lab); Rowlands, A (LD); Corby, E
(Ind); Tarrant, M (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 2,826 (4.45%).

ISLINGTON NORTH Talbot, N (C); +Corbyn, J (Lab); Willoughby, L (LD); Nott, J
(Green).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,958 (42.88%).

ISLINGTON SOUTH & FINSBURY McLean, M (C); Thornberry, E (Lab); Fox, B (LD);
Humphreys, J (Green); Gidden, C (Ind); Gardner, A T H (Loony); Theophanides, P (
UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,280 (25.80%).

ISLWYN Howells, P (C); +Touhig, D (Lab Co-op); Dillon, L (LD); Criddle, J (PC).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 15,309 (48.31%).

J JARROW Jack, L (C); +Hepburn, S (Lab); Schardt, B (LD); Nettleship, R (SNH);
Badger, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 17,595 (51.03%).

* K.

KEIGHLEY Poulsen, K (C); +Cryer, A (Lab); Fekri, N (LD); Griffin, N (BNP).

2001 Lab Maj: 4,005 (9.24%).

KENSINGTON & CHELSEA Rifkind, M (C); Atkinson, C (Lab); Kingsley, J (LD);
Stephenson, J (Green); Adams, E (Green Soc); Bovill, A (Ind); Eilorat, M (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,771 (31.28%).

KETTERING Hollobone, P (C); +Sawford, P (Lab); Aron, R (LD); Clark, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 665 (1.24%).

KILMARNOCK & LOUDOUN Smith, G (C); +Browne, D (Lab); Lang, K (LD); Coffey, D
(SNP); Kerr, H (SSP); Robertson, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,621 (30.51%).

KINGSTON & SURBITON Davis, K (C); Parrott, N (Lab); +Davey, E (LD); Hayball, J
(Soc Lab); Thornton, B (UKIP); Henson, D (Veritas); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).

2001 LD Maj: 15,676 (31.93%).

KINGSWOOD Inskip, O (C); +Berry, R (Lab); Brewer, G (LD); Burnside, D (Ind);
Knight, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,962 (26.51%).

KIRKCALDY & COWDENBEATH Randall, S (C); +Brown, G (Lab); Cole-Hamilton, A (LD);
Bath, A (SNP); Kwantes, E (Ind); Sargent, P (Ind); West, S (SSP); Parker, J
(Scot Senior); Adams, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,238 (39.91%).

KNOWSLEY NORTH & SEFTON EAST Purewal, N (C); +Howarth, G (Lab); Clucas, F (LD);
McDermott, M (BNP); Whatham, S (Soc Lab).

2001 Lab Maj: 18,927 (50.45%).

KNOWSLEY SOUTH Leadsom, A (C); +O'Hara, E (Lab); Smithson, D (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 21,316 (58.26%).

* L.

LAGAN VALLEY McCrea, B (UUP); +Donaldson, J (DUP); Lewsley, P (SDLP); Butler, P
(SF); Close, S (Alliance).

2001 UUP Maj: 18,342 (39.93%).

LANARK & HAMILTON EAST Pettigrew, R (C); +Hood, J (Lab); Grieve, F (LD); Wilson,
J (SNP); McFarlan, D (Ind); Mawhinney, R (OCV); Reilly, D (SSP); MacKay, D (UKIP
).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,861 (28.59%).

LANCASHIRE WEST Doran, A (C); Cooper, R (Lab); Kemp, R (LD); Braid, D (Clause
28); Garrett, S (Eng Dem); Freeman, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,643 (22.44%).

LANCASTER & WYRE Wallace, B (C); Sacks, A (Lab); Langhorn, S (LD); Barry, J
(Green); Mander, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 481 (0.92%).

LEEDS CENTRAL Cattell, B (C); +Benn, H (Lab); Coleman, R (LD); Fitzgerald, J
(AFC); Collett, M (BNP); Dear, M (Ind); Taiwo, O (Ind); Sewards, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,381 (52.67%).

LEEDS EAST Ponniah, D (C); +Mudie, G (Lab); Tear, A (LD); Socrates, P (Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,643 (43.51%).

LEEDS NORTH EAST Lobley, M (C); +Hamilton, F (Lab); Brown, J (LD); Foote, C
(Green Soc).

2001 Lab Maj: 7,089 (17.82%).

LEEDS NORTH WEST Lee, G (C); Blake, J (Lab); Mulholland, G (LD); Hemingway, M
(Green); Knowles, A (England); Sutton, J (Green Soc).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,236 (12.33%).

LEEDS WEST Metcalfe, T (C); +Battle, J (Lab); Finlay, D (LD); Blackburn, D
(Green); Day, J (BNP); Sewards, D (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,935 (46.54%).

LEICESTER EAST Fernandes, S (C); +Vaz, K (Lab); Cooper, S (LD); Smalley, V (Soc
Lab); Brown, C (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,442 (33.06%).

LEICESTER SOUTH McElwee, M (C); Soulsby, P (Lab); +Singh Gill, P (LD); Follett,
M (Green); Lord, P (Ind); Ridley, Y (Respect); Roberts, D (Soc Lab); Roseblade,
K (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,243 (31.43%).

LEICESTER WEST Richardson, S (C); +Hewitt, P (Lab); Haq, Z (LD); Forse, G
(Green); Score, S (Soc Alt).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,639 (29.02%).

LEICESTERSHIRE NORTH WEST Le Page, N (C); +Taylor, D (Lab Co-op); Keyes, R (LD);
Potter, C (BNP); Blunt, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 8,157 (18.12%).

LEIGH Wedderburn, L (C); +Burnham, A (Lab); Crowther, D (LD); Franzen, I (CAP);
Hampson, T (LCA).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,362 (46.35%).

LEOMINSTER +Wiggin, B (C); Bell, P (Lab); Williams, C (LD); Norman, F (Green);
Venables, P (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 10,367 (22.19%).

LEWES Love, R (C); Black, R (Lab); +Baker, N (LD); Murray, S (Green); Petley, J
(UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 9,710 (21.37%).

LEWISHAM DEPTFORD Cartlidge, J (C); +Ruddock, J (Lab); Blango, C (LD); Johnson,
D (Green); Page, I (Soc Alt); Holland, D (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,293 (52.54%).

LEWISHAM EAST Cleverly, J (C); +Prentice, B (Lab); Thomas, R (LD); Baker, A
(Green); Franklin, B (NF); Tarling, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,003 (29.93%).

LEWISHAM WEST McAnuff, E (C); +Dowd, J (Lab); Feakes, A (LD); Long, N (Green);
Winton, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,920 (38.68%).

LEYTON & WANSTEAD Foster, J (C); +Cohen, H (Lab); Khan, M (LD); Gunstock, A
(Green); Jones, N (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,904 (38.27%).

LICHFIELD +Fabricant, M (C); Gardner, N (Lab); Jackson, I (LD); McKenzie, M (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,426 (10.62%).

LINCOLN McCartney, K (C); +Merron, G (Lab); Gabriel, L (LD); Smith, N (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 8,420 (22.68%).

LINLITHGOW & FALKIRK EAST Veitch, M (C); +Connarty, M (Lab); Glenn, S (LD);
Guthrie, G (SNP); Hendry, A (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,796 (26.46%).

LIVERPOOL GARSTON Rudd, A (C); +Eagle, M (Lab); Keaveney, P (LD); Kearney, K (
UKIP); Oatley, D (WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,494 (38.27%).

LIVERPOOL RIVERSIDE Howatson, G (C); +Ellman, L (Lab Co-op); Marbrow, R (LD);
Cranie, P (Green); Marshall, B (Soc Lab); Irving, A (UKIP).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 13,950 (54.70%).

LIVERPOOL WALTON Buckle, S (C); +Kilfoyle, P (Lab); Reid, K (LD); Wood, D (Lib);
Moran, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 17,996 (63.24%).

LIVERPOOL WAVERTREE Steen, J (C); +Kennedy, J (Lab); Eldridge, C (LD); Filby, P
(Dem Soc All); Theys, G (Soc Lab); Bill, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,319 (38.33%).

LIVERPOOL WEST DERBY Garrett, P (C); +Wareing, R (Lab); Maloney, P (LD);
Radford, S (Lib); Andersen, K (Soc Lab); Baden, P (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 15,853 (51.29%).

LIVINGSTON Ross, A (C); +Cook, R (Lab); Dundas, C (LD); Constance, A (SNP);
Nimmo, S (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,638 (31.88%).

LLANELLI Phillips, A (C); Griffith, N (Lab); Rees, K (LD); Baker, N (PC).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,403 (17.69%).

LONDONDERRY EAST McClarty, D (UUP); +Campbell, G (DUP); Dallat, J (SDLP);
Leonard, B (SF); Boyle, Y (Alliance); Samuel, M (Ind).

2001 DUP Maj: 1,901 (4.77%).

LOUGHBOROUGH Morgan, N (C); +Reed, A (Lab Co-op); Smith, G (LD); Sherratt, B (
UKIP); McVay, J (Veritas).

2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 6,378 (14.41%).

LOUTH & HORNCASTLE +Tapsell, P (C); Hodgkiss, F (Lab); Martin, F (LD); Pain, C (
UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 7,554 (16.99%).

LUDLOW Dunne, P (C); Knowles, N (Lab); +Green, M (LD); Gaffney, J (Green);
Zuckerman, M (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 1,630 (3.78%).

LUTON NORTH Hall, H (C); +Hopkins, K (Lab); Jack, L (LD); Gurney, K (Ind);
Brown, C (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,977 (25.50%).

LUTON SOUTH Stay, R (C); +Moran, M (Lab); Hussain, Q (LD); Scheimann, M (Green);
Ilyas, M (Respect); Lawman, C (UKIP); Lynn, A (WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 10,133 (25.75%).

* M.

MACCLESFIELD +Winterton, N (C); Carter, S (Lab); O'Brien, C (LD); Scott, J
(Veritas).

2001 C Maj: 7,200 (15.79%).

MAIDENHEAD +May, T (C); Pritchard, J (Lab); Newbound, K (LD); Rait, T (BNP);
Lewis, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,284 (7.58%).

MAIDSTONE & THE WEALD +Widdecombe, A (C); Breeze, B (Lab); Corney, M (LD);
Robertson, A (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 10,318 (22.64%).

MAKERFIELD Ranger, K (C); +McCartney, I (Lab); Beswick, T (LD); Shambley, D
(BNP); Franzen, P (CAP); Atherton, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 17,750 (50.92%).

MALDON & CHELMSFORD EAST +Whittingdale, J (C); Tibballs, S (Lab); Lambert, M
(LD); Pryke, J (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 8,462 (19.19%).

MANCHESTER BLACKLEY Ahmed, A (C); +Stringer, G (Lab); Donaldson, I (LD);
Bullock, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,464 (54.53%).

MANCHESTER CENTRAL Jackson, T (C); +Lloyd, T (Lab); Ramsbottom, M (LD); Kemp, R
(NF); Sinclair, R (Soc Lab); Whittaker, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,742 (53.00%).

MANCHESTER GORTON Byrne, A (C); +Kaufman, G (Lab); Afzal, Q (LD); Key, M (The
RP); Beaman, G (UKIP); Waller, D (WRP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,304 (41.51%).

MANCHESTER WITHINGTON Bradley, K (C); +Bradley, K (Lab); Leech, J (LD);
Candeland, B (Green); Benett, I (Ind); Zalzala, Y (Ind); Reed, R (TP);
Gutfreund-Walmsley, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,524 (32.88%).

MANSFIELD Wright, A (C); +Meale, A (Lab); Shelley, R (LD); Rickersey, S (Ind);
Harvey, M (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,038 (29.95%).

MEDWAY Reckless, M (C); +Marshall-Andrews, R (Lab); Juby, G (LD); Oakley, B (
UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 3,780 (9.79%).

MEIRIONNYDD NANT CONWY Munford, D (C); Jones, R (Lab); Fawcett, A (LD); +Llwyd,
E (PC); Wykes, F (UKIP).

2001 PC Maj: 5,684 (26.98%).

MERIDEN +Spelman, C (C); Brown, J (Lab); Laitinen, W (LD); Brookes, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,784 (8.49%).

MERTHYR TYDFIL & RHYMNEY Berry, R (C); +Havard, D (Lab); Rees, C (LD); Turner, N
(PC); Greer, N (FWP); Marsden, I (Soc Lab); Parry, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,923 (47.10%).

MIDDLESBROUGH Flynn-Macleod, C (C); +Bell, S (Lab); Michna, J (LD); Armes, R
(BNP); Elder, J (Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 16,330 (48.43%).

MIDDLESBROUGH SOUTH & CLEVELAND EAST Brooks, M (C); +Kumar, A (Lab); Minns, C
(LD); Groves, G (BNP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,351 (21.26%).

MIDLOTHIAN McGill, I (C); +Hamilton, D (Lab); Mackintosh, F (LD); Beattie, C
(SNP); Gilfillan, N (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,017 (31.29%).

MILTON KEYNES NORTH EAST Lancaster, M (C); +White, B (Lab); Carr, J (LD);
Richardson, G (Green); Vyas, A (Ind); Phillips, M (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 1,829 (3.88%).

MILTON KEYNES SOUTH WEST Stewart, I (C); +Starkey, P (Lab); Stuart, N (LD);
Francis, A (Green); Harlock, G (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 6,978 (15.38%).

MITCHAM & MORDEN Shellhorn, A (C); +McDonagh, S (Lab); Christie-Smith, J (LD);
Walsh, T (Green); Alagaratnam, R (ND); Roberts, A (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,785 (36.31%).

MOLE VALLEY +Beresford, P (C); Bi, F (Lab); Butt, N (LD); Payne, D (UKIP);
Meekins, R (Veritas).

2001 C Maj: 10,153 (21.57%).

MONMOUTH Davies, D (C); +Edwards, H (Lab); Hobson, P (LD); Clark, J (PC);
Bufton, J (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 384 (0.86%).

MONTGOMERYSHIRE Baynes, S (C); Tinline, D (Lab); +Opik, L (LD); ap Gwynn, E
(PC); Easton, C (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 6,234 (21.51%).

MORAY Halcro-Johnston, J (C); Hutchens, K (Lab); Gorn, L (LD); +Robertson, A
(SNP); Anderson, N (SSP).

2001 SNP Maj: 1,852 (5.06%).

MORECAMBE & LUNESDALE Airey, J (C); +Smith, G (Lab); Stone, A (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 5,092 (12.22%).

MORLEY & ROTHWELL Vineall, N (C); +Challen, C (Lab); Golton, S (LD); Beverley, C
(BNP); Finnigan, R (Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 12,090 (31.45%).

MOTHERWELL & WISHAW Finnie, P (C); +Roy, F (Lab); Snowden, C (LD); MacQuarrie, I
(SNP); Carter, D (Free Scot); Thompson, C (OCV); McEwan, G (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 13,778 (36.33%).

* N.

NA H-EILEANAN AN IAR Maciver, A (C); +MacDonald, C (Lab); Davies, J (LD);
MacNeil, A (SNP); Hargreaves, J (OCV); Telfer, J (SSP).

2001 Lab Maj: 1,074 (8.16%).

NEATH Lloyd Davies, H (C); +Hain, P (Lab); Waye, S (LD); Owen, G (PC); Jay, S
(Green); Brienza, G (Ind); Tabram, P (LCA); Falconer, H (Respect).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,816 (42.31%).

NEW FOREST EAST +Lewis, J (C); Roberts, S (Lab); Dash, B (LD); Davies, K (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,829 (9.08%).

NEW FOREST WEST +Swayne, D (C); Hurne, J (Lab); Kaushik, M (LD); Richards, J
(Green); Lawrence, B (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 13,191 (29.92%).

NEWARK +Mercer, P (C); Reece, J (Lab); Thompstone, S (LD); Creasy, C (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,073 (9.02%).

NEWBURY Benyon, R (C); Van Nooijen, O (Lab); +Rendel, D (LD); Cornish, N (Ind);
Singleton, B (Ind); McMahon, D (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 2,415 (4.75%).

NEWCASTLE-UNDER-LYME Lefroy, J (C); +Farrelly, P (Lab); Johnson, T (LD); Dobson,
A (Green); Dawson, J (BNP); Nixon, D (UKIP); Harvey-Lover, M (Veritas).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,986 (25.82%).

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE CENTRAL Morton, W (C); +Cousins, J (Lab); Stone, G (LD);
Hulm, J (Green); Harding, C (NACVP).

2001 Lab Maj: 11,605 (33.28%).

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE EAST & WALLSEND Dias, N (C); +Brown, N (Lab); Ord, D (LD);
Levy, M (Comm Brit); Hopwood, W (Soc Alt).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,223 (43.50%).

NEWCASTLE UPON TYNE NORTH Hudson, N (C); +Henderson, D (Lab); Beadle, R (LD).

2001 Lab Maj: 14,450 (39.73%).

NEWPORT EAST Collings, M (C); Morden, J (Lab); Townsend, E (LD); Asghar, M (PC);
Screen, L (Soc Lab); Thomas, R (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,874 (31.56%).

NEWPORT WEST Morgan, W (C); +Flynn, P (Lab); Flanagan, N (LD); Salkeld, T (PC);
Varley, P (Green); Arjomand, S (Ind); Moelwyn Hughes, H (UKIP).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,304 (26.54%).

NEWRY & ARMAGH Kennedy, D (UUP); Berry, P (DUP); Bradley, D (SDLP); Murphy, C
(SF); Markey, G (Ind).

2001 SDLP Maj: 3,575 (6.43%).

NORFOLK MID +Simpson, K (C); Zeichner, D (Lab); Clifford-Jackson, V (LD);
Fletcher, S (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 4,562 (8.68%).

NORFOLK NORTH Dale, I (C); Harris, P (Lab); +Lamb, N (LD); Appleyard, J (Ind);
Agnew, S (UKIP).

2001 LD Maj: 483 (0.86%).

NORFOLK NORTH WEST +Bellingham, H (C); Welfare, D (Lab); Higginson, S (LD);
Stone, M (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 3,485 (6.81%).

NORFOLK SOUTH +Bacon, R (C); Morgan, J (Lab); Mack, I (LD); Tye, P (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 6,893 (12.32%).

NORFOLK SOUTH WEST Fraser, C (C); Morgan, C (Lab); Pond, A (LD); Hayes, K (Ind);
Hall, D (UKIP).

2001 C Maj: 9,366 (17.69%).

NORMANTON Percy, A (C); Balls, E (Lab Co-op); Butterworth, S (LD); Aveyard, J
(BNP); Harrop, M (Ind).

2001 Lab Maj: 9,937 (29.09%).

NORTHAMPTON NORTH Collins, D (C); +Keeble, S (Lab); Simpson, A (LD); Otchie, A
(CPA); Witherington, P (SOS); Howsam, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 7,893 (19.02%).>
NORTHAMPTON SOUTH Binley, B (C); +Clarke, T (Lab); Barron, K (LD); Webb, T
(CPA); Fitzpatrick, F (Ind); Percival, J (Loony); Harrison, J (SOS); Clark, D (
UKIP); Green, A (Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 885 (1.73%).> NORTHAVON Butt, C (C);
Gardener, P (Lab); +Webb, S (LD); Pinder, A (Green); Beacham, T (Ind); Blake, A
(UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 9,877 (17.71%).> NORWICH NORTH Tumbridge, J (C); +Gibson,
I (Lab); Whitmore, R (LD); Holmes, A (Green); Holden, B (Ind); Youles, J (UKIP
).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,863 (12.85%).> NORWICH SOUTH Little, A (C); +Clarke, C
(Lab); Aalders-Dunthorne, A (LD); Ramsay, A (Green); Constable, C (Eng Dem);
Barnard, D (LCA); Ahlstrom, V (UKIP); Blackwell, R (WRP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,816
(20.70%).> NOTTINGHAM EAST Thornton, J (C); +Heppell, J (Lab); Ghazni, I (LD);
Baxter, A (Green); Ratcliff, P (Soc Unity); Ellwood, A (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
10,320 (34.71%).> NOTTINGHAM NORTH Patel, P (C); +Allen, G (Lab); Ball, T (LD);
Marriott, I (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 12,240 (40.74%).> NOTTINGHAM SOUTH Mattu, S
(C); +Simpson, A (Lab); Sutton, T (LD); Browne, K (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,989
(27.29%).> NUNEATON Pawsey, M (C); +Olner, B (Lab); Asghar, A (LD); Tyson, K (
UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 7,535 (17.40%).> * 0.> OCHIL & PERTHSHIRE SOUTH Smith, E
(C); Banks, G (Lab); Whittingham, C (LD); +Ewing, A (SNP); Baxter, G (Green);
Kelly, M (Free Scot); Campbell, I (SSP); Bushby, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 821
(1.83%).> OGMORE Lloyd-Nesling, N (C); +Irranca-Davies, H (Lab); Radford, J
(LD); Williams, J (PC).> 2001 Lab Maj: 14,574 (48.02%).> OLD BEXLEY & SIDCUP
+Conway, D (C); Moore, G (Lab); O'Hare, N (LD); Sayers, C (BNP); Peters, G
(Ind).> 2001 C Maj: 3,345 (7.94%).> OLDHAM EAST & SADDLEWORTH Chapman, K (C);
+Woolas, P (Lab); Dawson, T (LD); Treacy, M (BNP); O'Grady, P (Ind); Nield, V (
UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 2,726 (6.00%).> OLDHAM WEST & ROYTON Moore, S (C);
Meacher, M (Lab); Bodsworth, S (LD); Corbett, A (BNP); Short, D (UKIP).> 2001
Lab Maj: 13,365 (33.44%).> ORKNEY & SHETLAND Nairn, F (C); Meade, R (Lab);
+Carmichael, A (LD); Mowat, J (SNP); Nugent, B (Free Scot); Cruickshank, P
(LCA); Aberdein, J (SSP); Dyble, S (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 3,475 (20.77%).>
ORPINGTON +Horam, J (C); Bird, E (Lab); Maines, C (LD); Greenhough, J (UKIP).>
2001 C Maj: 269 (0.53%).> OXFORD EAST Morris, V (C); +Smith, A (Lab); Goddard, S
(LD); Sanders, J (Green); Leen, M (IWCA); Blair, H (Ind); Mylvaganam, P (Ind);
Gardner, P (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 10,344 (25.96%).> OXFORD WEST & ABINGDON
McLean, A (C); Bunce, A (Lab); +Harris, E (LD); Lines, T (Green); Watney, M (
UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 9,185 (17.81%).> * P.> PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE NORTH
Lardner, P (C); +Sheridan, J (Lab); Hutton, L (LD); Wilson, B (SNP); McGregor, A
(SSP); McGavigan, K (Soc Lab); Pearson, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 12,417
(29.58%).> PAISLEY & RENFREWSHIRE SOUTH Begg, T (C); +Alexander, D (Lab);
McCartin, E (LD); Doig, A (SNP); Rodgers, R (Ind); Matthew, G (Paisley); Hogg, I
(SSP); Broadbent, H (Soc Lab).> 2001 Lab Maj: 13,968 (36.10%).> PENDLE Ellison,
J (C); +Prentice, G (Lab); Anwar, S (LD); Boocock, T (BNP); Cannon, G (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 4,275 (10.76%).> PENRITH & THE BORDER +Maclean, D (C); Boaden, M
(Lab); Walker, K (LD); Gibson, M (LCA); Robinson, W (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 14,677
(33.17%).> PERTH & PERTHSHIRE NORTH Taylor, D (C); Maughan, D (Lab); Campbell, G
(LD); +Wishart, P (SNP); Stott, P (SSP).> 2001 SNP Maj: 5,020 (11.01%).>
PETERBOROUGH Jackson, S (C); +Clark, H (Lab); Sandford, N (LD); Potter, M (MNP);
Blackham, T (NF); Herdman, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 2,854 (7.17%).> PLYMOUTH
DEVONPORT Cuming, R (C); Seabeck, A (Lab); Jolly, J (LD); Greene, K (Ind);
Staunton, T (Respect); Hawkins, R (Soc Lab); Wakeham, B (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
13,033 (31.24%).> PLYMOUTH SUTTON Colvile, O (C); +Gilroy, L (Lab Co-op);
Gillard, K (LD); Hawkins, R (Soc Lab); Cumming, R (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Co-op Maj:
7,517 (19.24%).> PONTEFRACT & CASTLEFORD Jones, S (C); +Cooper, Y (Lab); Paxton,
W (LD); Cass, S (BNP); Hague, B (Green Soc).> 2001 Lab Maj: 16,378 (52.17%).>
PONTYPRIDD Gwynne Edwards, Q (C); +Howells, K (Lab); Powell, M (LD); Richards, J
(PC); Griffiths, R (Comm); Bevan, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 17,684 (46.16%).>
POOLE +Syms, R (C); Brown, D (Lab); Plummer, M (LD); Pirnie, P (BNP); Barnes, J
(UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 7,166 (18.27%).> POPLAR & CANNING TOWN Archer, T (C);
+Fitzpatrick, J (Lab); Ludlow, J (LD); McGrenera, T (Green); Ademolake, S (CPA);
Rahman, O (Respect); Smith, T (Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 14,108 (41.37%).>
PORTSMOUTH NORTH Mordaunt, P (C); McCarthy-Fry, S (Lab Co-op); Lawson, G (LD);
Smith, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,134 (13.93%).> PORTSMOUTH SOUTH Dinenage, C
(C); Button, M (Lab); +Hancock, M (LD); Pierson, D (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 6,093
(15.54%).> PRESELI PEMBROKESHIRE Crabb, S (C); Hayman, S (Lab); Smith, D (LD);
Mathias, M (PC); Scott-Cato, M (Green); Bowen, T (Soc Lab); Carver, J (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 2,946 (8.01%).> PRESTON Bryce, F (C); +Hendrick, M (Lab Co-op);
Parkinson, W (LD); Lavalette, M (Respect); Boardman, E (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Co-op
Maj: 12,268 (34.04%).> PUDSEY Singleton, P (C); Truswell, P (Lab); Keeley, J
(LD); Daniel, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,626 (12.45%).> PUTNEY Greening, J (C);
+Colman, T (Lab); Ambache, J (LD); Magnum, K (Green); Gahan, A (UKIP).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 2,771 (8.09%).> * R.> RAYLEIGH +Francois, M (C); Ware-Lane, J (Lab);
Cumberland, S (LD); Davies, J (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 8,290 (19.38%).> READING EAST
Wilson, R (C); Page, A (Lab); Howson, J (LD); White, R (Green); Hora, R (Ind);
Lloyd, J (Ind); Lamb, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,595 (12.83%).> READING WEST
Cameron, E (C); +Salter, M (Lab); Gaines, D (LD); Windisch, A (Green); Williams,
P (UKIP); Boyle, D (Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,849 (21.08%).> REDCAR Lehrle, J
(C); +Baird, V (Lab); Swales, I (LD); Harris, A (BNP); McGlade, C (Ind); Taylor,
J (Soc Lab); Walker, E (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 13,443 (35.19%).> REDDITCH Lumley,
K (C); +Smith, J (Lab); Hicks, N (LD); Ison, J P (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 2,484
(6.71%).> REGENT'S PARK & KENSINGTON NORTH> Bradshaw, J (C); +Buck, K (Lab);
Martins, R (LD); Miller, P (Green); Boufas, R (CP); Dharamsey, A (Ind); Perrin,
P (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 10,266 (27.71%).> REIGATE> +Blunt, C (C); Townend, S
(Lab); Kulka, J (LD); Green, H (EDP); Selby, M (Ind); Wraith, J (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 8,025 (20.33%).> RENFREWSHIRE EAST> Cook, R (C); +Murphy, J (Lab);
Macdonald, G (LD); Bhutta, O (SNP); Henderson, I (SSP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,141
(18.90%).> RHONDDA> Stuart-Smith, P (C); +Bryant, C (Lab); Roberts, K (LD);
Jones, L P (PC).> 2001 Lab Maj: 16,047 (47.19%).> RIBBLE SOUTH (SOUTH RIBBLE)>
Fullbrook, L (C); +Borrow, D (Lab); Alcock, M (LD); Jones, K (UKIP).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 3,802 (8.24%).> RIBBLE VALLEY> +Evans, N (C); Davenport, J (Lab); Young, J
(LD); Henry, K (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 11,238 (22.85%).> RICHMOND (YORKS)> +Hague,
W (C); Foster, N (Lab); Bell, J (LD); Rowe, L (Green).> 2001 C Maj: 16,319
(37.06%).> RICHMOND PARK> Forgione, M (C); Butler, J (Lab); Kramer, S (LD);
Page, J (Green); Flower, P (CPA); Harrison, M (Ind); Meacock, R (Ind); Dul, P (
UKIP); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).> 2001 LD Maj: 4,964 (10.10%).> ROCHDALE>
Hussain, K (C); +Fitzsimons, L (Lab); Rowen, P (LD); Chatterjee, S (Green);
Adams, D (BNP); Salim, M (IZB); Whittaker, J (UKIP); Faulkner, C (Veritas).>
2001 Lab Maj: 5,655 (14.35%).> ROCHFORD & SOUTHEND EAST> Duddridge, J (C);
Grindrod, F (Lab); Longley, G (LD); Vaughan, A (Green); Croft, J (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 7,034 (18.78%).> ROMFORD> +Rosindell, A (C); Mullane, M (Lab); Seeff, G
(LD); McCaffrey, J (BNP); Murray, T (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 5,977 (16.74%).>
ROMSEY> Nokes, C (C); Stevens, M (Lab); +Gidley, S (LD); Wigley, M (UKIP).> 2001
LD Maj: 2,370 (4.89%).> ROSS, SKYE & LOCHABER> Hodgson, J (C); Conniff, C (Lab);
+Kennedy, C (LD); Will, M (SNP); Jardine, D (Green); Grant, M (Ind); McLeod, A
(SSP); Anderson, P (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 6,567 (21.26%).> ROSSENDALE & DARWEN>
Adams, N (C); +Anderson, J (Lab); Carr, M (LD); McIver, G (Green); Wentworth, A
(BNP); Duthie, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 4,970 (11.94%).> ROTHER VALLEY>
Phillips, C (C); +Barron, K (Lab); Bristow, P (LD); Cass, N (BNP); Brown, G (
UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 14,882 (40.44%).> ROTHERHAM> Rotherham, L (C); +MacShane,
D (Lab); Gordon, T (LD); Penycate, R (Green); Guest, M (BNP); Cutts, D (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 13,077 (44.55%).> RUGBY & KENILWORTH> Wright, J (C); +King, A
(Lab); Allanach, R (LD); Hadland, B (Ind); Pallikaropoulos, L (Ind); Thurley, J
(UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 2,877 (5.35%).> RUISLIP-NORTHWOOD> Hurd, N (C); Riley, A
(Lab); Cox, M (LD); Lee, G (Green); Ian, E (NF); Courtenay, R (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 7,537 (20.29%).> RUNNYMEDE & WEYBRIDGE> +Hammond, P (C); Greenwood, P
(Lab); Bolton, H (LD); Gilman, C (Green); Collett, A (Loony); Osman, K (UKC);
Micklethwait, A (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 8,360 (19.70%).> RUSHCLIFFE> +Clarke, K
(C); Gamble, E (Lab); Khan, K (LD); Anthony, S (Green); Faithfull, M (UKIP);
Moss, D (Veritas).> 2001 C Maj: 7,357 (13.51%).> RUTHERGLEN & HAMILTON WEST>
Crerar, P (C); +McAvoy, T (Lab Co-op); Robertson, I (LD); Park, M (SNP); Bonnar,
B (SSP); Murdoch, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 18,504 (44.42%).> RUTLAND & MELTON>
+Duncan, A (C); Arnold, L (Lab); Hudson, G (LD); Pender, H (Ind); Baker, P (UKIP
); Shelley, D (Veritas).> 2001 C Maj: 8,612 (18.30%).> RYEDALE> +Greenway, J
(C); Blanchard, P (Lab); Beever, G (LD); Clarke, J (Lib); Feaster, S (UKIP).>
2001 C Maj: 4,875 (11.11%).> * S> SAFFRON WALDEN> +Haselhurst, A (C); Nandanwar,
S (Lab); Tealby-Watson, E (LD); Brown, R (Eng Dem); Tyler, R (UKIP); Hackett, T
(Veritas).> 2001 C Maj: 12,004 (23.99%).> ST ALBANS> Main, A (C); +Pollard, K
(Lab); Green, M (LD); Reynolds, M (Ind); Girsman, J (St Albans); Evans, R (UKIP
).> 2001 Lab Maj: 4,466 (10.21%).> ST HELENS NORTH> Oakley, P (C); +Watts, D
(Lab); Beirne, J (LD); Nightingale, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 15,901 (42.29%).>
ST HELENS SOUTH> Riley, U (C); +Woodward, S (Lab); Spencer, B (LD); Perry, M
(Soc Lab); Hall, S (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,985 (26.58%).> ST IVES> Mitchell, C
(C); Dooley, M (Lab); +George, A (LD); Slack, K (Green); Faulkner, M (UKIP).>
2001 LD Maj: 10,053 (20.41%).> SALFORD> Cash, L (C); +Blears, H (Lab); Owen, N
(LD); Duffy, L (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 11,012 (48.91%).> SALISBURY> +Key, R (C);
Moody, C (Lab); Denton-White, R (LD); Soutar, H (Green); Holme, J (Ind); Howard,
F (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 8,703 (16.54%).> SCARBOROUGH & WHITBY> Goodwill, R (C);
+Quinn, L (Lab); Exley-Moore, T (LD); Dixon, J (Green); Abbott, P (UKIP).> 2001
Lab Maj: 3,585 (7.54%).> SCUNTHORPE> Sturdy, J (C); +Morley, E (Lab); Poole, N
(LD); Baxendale, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 10,372 (30.85%).> SEDGEFIELD>
Lockwood, A (C); +Blair, T (Lab); Browne, R (LD); Cockburn, J (BMG); John, H
(Ind John); Keys, R (Ind Keys); Maroney, B (Loony); Pattinson, T (Senior);
Brown, W (UKIP); Gilham, C (UKPP); Luckhurst-Matthews, F (Veritas).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 17,713 (44.00%).> SELBY> Menzies, M (C); +Grogan, J (Lab); Cuthbertson, I
(LD).> 2001 Lab Maj: 2,138 (4.25%).> SEVENOAKS> +Fallon, M (C); Stanley, T
(Lab); Abbotts, B (LD); Marshall, J (Eng Dem); Ellis, M (UK Path); Dobson, R (
UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 10,154 (23.83%).> SHEFFIELD ATTERCLIFFE> Critchlow, T (C);
+Betts, C (Lab); Moore, K (LD); Jones, B (BNP); Arnott, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
18,844 (52.60%).> SHEFFIELD BRIGHTSIDE> Clark, T (C); +Blunkett, D (Lab);
Harston, J (LD); Hartigan, C (BNP); Clarke, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 17,049
(66.72%).> SHEFFIELD CENTRAL> George, S (C); +Caborn, R (Lab); Qadar, A (LD);
Little, B (Green); Payne, M (BNP); Bowler, M (Respect); Arnott, C (UKIP).> 2001
Lab Maj: 12,544 (41.72%).> SHEFFIELD HALLAM> Pitfield, S (C); Hussain, M (Lab);
Clegg, N (LD); Cole, R (Green); Senior, I (BNP); Cordle, S (CPA); James, N (UKIP
).> 2001 LD Maj: 9,347 (24.44%).> SHEFFIELD HEELEY> Crawshaw, A (C); +Munn, M
(Lab Co-op); Ross, C (LD); Unwin, R (Green); Beatson, J (BNP); Dunnell, M (Soc
Alt); Suter, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 11,704 (34.28%).> SHEFFIELD HILLSBOROUGH>
Doyle-Price, J (C); Smith, A (Lab); Commons, J (LD); Wright, D (BNP); Patterson,
M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 14,569 (34.25%).> SHERWOOD> Laughton, B (C); +Tipping,
P (Lab); Harris, P (LD); Dawkins, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,373 (20.42%).>
SHIPLEY> Davies, P (C); +Leslie, C (Lab); Briggs, J (LD); Deakin, Q (Green);
Linden, T (BNP); Crabtree, D (Iraq).> 2001 Lab Maj: 1,428 (3.10%).> SHREWSBURY &
ATCHAM> Kawczynski, D (C); Ion, M (Lab); Burt, R (LD); Bullard, E (Green);
Gollins, J (Ind); Harris, N (Online); Lewis, P (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 3,579
(7.17%).> SHROPSHIRE NORTH> +Paterson, O (C); Samuels, S (Lab); Bourne, S (LD);
Smith, I (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 6,241 (13.42%).> SITTINGBOURNE & SHEPPEY>
Henderson, G (C); +Wyatt, D (Lab); Nelson, J (LD); Young, M M M (Loony); Dean, S
(UKIP); Cassidy, D (Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 3,509 (9.27%).> SKIPTON & RIPON>
+Curry, D (C); Baptie, P (Lab); English, P (LD); Leakey, R (Currency);
Bannister, I (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 12,930 (26.32%).> SLEAFORD & NORTH HYKEHAM>
+Hogg, D (C); Bull, K (Lab); Harding-Price, D (LD); Croft, G (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 8,622 (17.70%).> SLOUGH> Gunn, S (C); +Mactaggart, F (Lab); McCann, T (LD);
Wood, D (Green); Janik, P (Ind); Khan, A (Respect); Howard, G (UKIP).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 12,508 (32.07%).> SOLIHULL> +Taylor, J (C); Vaughan, R (Lab); Burt, L (LD);
Carr, D (BNP); Moore, A (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 9,407 (19.49%).> SOMERTON & FROME>
Allen, C (C); Pestell, J (Lab); +Heath, D (LD); Lukins, W (UKIP); Beaman, C
(Veritas).> 2001 LD Maj: 668 (1.27%).> SOUTH HOLLAND & THE DEEPINGS> +Hayes, J
(C); Woodings, L (Lab); Jarvis, S (LD); Poll, P (Ind); Corney, J (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 11,099 (24.02%).> SOUTH SHIELDS> Lewis, R (C); +Miliband, D (Lab);
Psallidas, S (LD); Afshari-Naderi, N (Ind).> 2001 Lab Maj: 14,090 (46.28%).>
SOUTHAMPTON ITCHEN> Drummond, F (C); +Denham, J (Lab); Goodall, D (LD); Rose, K
(UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 11,223 (27.13%).> SOUTHAMPTON TEST> MacLoughlin, S (C);
+Whitehead, A (Lab); Sollitt, S (LD); Spottiswoode, J (Green); Day, P (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 11,207 (26.96%).> SOUTHEND WEST> +Amess, D (C); Etienne, J (Lab);
Wexham, P (LD); Moss, J (England); Velmurgan, M (Ind); Anslow, D (Power);
Sampson, C (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 7,941 (21.25%).> SOUTHPORT> Bigley, M (C);
Brant, P (Lab); +Pugh, J (LD); Durrance, T (UKIP); Forster, H (Veritas); Givens,
B (YPB).> 2001 LD Maj: 3,007 (7.31%).> SOUTHWARK NORTH & BERMONDSEY> Branch, D
(C); McNeill, K (Lab); +Hughes, S (LD); Poorun, S (Green); Lawanson, S (CPA);
Winnett, P (NF); Robson, L (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 9,632 (26.13%).> SPELTHORNE>
+Wilshire, D (C); Dibble, K (Lab); James, S (LD); Schwark, C (UKC); Browne, C (
UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 3,262 (7.80%).> STAFFORD> Chambers, D (C); +Kidney, D (Lab);
Stamp, B (LD); Goode, F (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,032 (11.34%).> STAFFORDSHIRE
MOORLANDS> Hayes, M (C); +Atkins, C (Lab); Fisher, J (LD); Povey, S (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 5,838 (13.69%).> STAFFORDSHIRE SOUTH> +Cormack, P (C); Barber, P
(Lab); Harrison, J (LD); Davies, A (FP); Hurst, M (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 6,881
(16.31%).> STALYBRIDGE & HYDE> Boardman, L (C); +Purnell, J (Lab); Bingham, V
(LD); Smee, M (Green); Byrne, N (BNP); Whittaker, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,859
(27.64%).> STEVENAGE> Freeman, G (C); +Follett, B (Lab); Davies, J (LD);
Losonczi, A (Ind); Peebles, V (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,566 (20.18%).> STIRLING>
Kerr, S (C); +McGuire, A (Lab); Holdsworth, K (LD); McGlinchey, F (SNP);
Illingworth, D (Green); McDonald, J (Ind); Willis, M (OCV); Sheret, R (SSP);
Desmond, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,303 (19.28%).> STOCKPORT> Berridge, E (C);
+Coffey, A (Lab); Floodgate, L S (LD); Simpson, R (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 11,569
(32.70%).> STOCKTON NORTH> Baldwin, H (C); +Cook, F (Lab); Hughes, N (LD);
Hughes, K (BNP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 14,647 (41.34%).> STOCKTON SOUTH> Gaddas, J (C);
+Taylor, D (Lab); Barker, M (LD); Allison, S (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,086
(20.55%).> STOKE-ON-TRENT CENTRAL> Baroudy, E (C); +Fisher, M (Lab); Redfern, J
(LD); Coleman, M (BNP); Cessford, J (Soc Alt); Bonfiglio, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 11,845 (41.86%).> STOKE-ON-TRENT NORTH> Browning, B (C); +Walley, J (Lab);
Jebb, H (LD); Cartlidge, S (BNP); Chesters, H (Ind); Braithwaite, E (UKIP);
Taylor, I (Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 11,784 (39.13%).> STOKE-ON-TRENT SOUTH>
Deaville, M (C); Flello, R (Lab); Martin, A (LD); Leat, M (BNP); Benson, N (UKIP
); Allen, G (Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 10,489 (29.11%).> STONE> +Cash, B (C);
Davis, M (Lab); Stevens, P (LD); Nattraff, M (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 6,036
(13.22%).> STOURBRIDGE> Coad, D (C); Waltho, L (Lab); Bramall, C (LD); Pui Chai
Mau, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 3,812 (9.55%).> STRANGFORD> Dick, T (C);
McGimpsey, G (UUP); +Robinson, I (DUP); Boyle, J (SDLP); Kennedy, D (SF);
McCarthy, K (Alliance).> 2001 DUP Maj: 1,110 (2.57%).> STRATFORD-ON-AVON>
+Maples, J (C); Blackmore, R (Lab Co-op); Juned, S (LD); Davies, M (Green);
Cottam, H (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 11,802 (21.49%).> STREATHAM> Sproule, J (C);
+Hill, K (Lab); Sanders, D (LD); Collins, S (Green); Acheng, S (Ind); Stone, P
(Ind Stone); West, R (Ind West); Gittings, T (UKIP); Colvill, W (World Rev).>
2001 Lab Maj: 14,270 (38.57%).> STRETFORD & URMSTON> Hinds, D (C); +Hughes, B
(Lab); Bhatti, F (LD); Krantz, M (Respect); McManus, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
13,271 (34.02%).> STROUD> Carmichael, N (C); +Drew, D (Lab Co-op); Hirst, P
(LD); Whiteside, M (Green); Noble, E (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 5,039
(9.13%).> SUFFOLK CENTRAL & IPSWICH NORTH> +Lord, M (C); MacDonald, N (Lab);
Houseley, A (LD); Wolfe, M (Green); West, J (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 3,469 (7.36%).>
SUFFOLK COASTAL> +Gummer, J (C); Rowe, D (Lab); Young, D (LD); Whitlow, P
(Green); Curtis, R (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 4,326 (8.58%).> SUFFOLK SOUTH> +Yeo, T
(C); Craig, K (Lab); Pollard, K (LD); Carver, J (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 5,081
(11.22%).> SUFFOLK WEST> +Spring, R (C); Jefferys, M (Lab); Graves, A (LD);
Smith, I J (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 4,295 (10.12%).> SUNDERLAND NORTH> Daughton, S
(C); +Etherington, B (Lab); Hollern, J (LD); Hiles, D (BNP); Herron, N (Ind).>
2001 Lab Maj: 13,354 (44.78%).> SUNDERLAND SOUTH> Oliver, R (C); +Mullin, C
(Lab); Kane, G (LD); Guynan, D (BNP); Warner, R (Loony).> 2001 Lab Maj: 13,667
(43.82%).> SURREY EAST> +Ainsworth, P (C); Bridge, J (Lab); Pursehouse, J (LD);
Matthews, W (LCA); Stone, T (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 13,203 (28.06%).> SURREY HEATH>
Gove, M (C); Lowe, C (Lab); Harper, R (LD); Scott, S (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 10,819
(23.99%).> SURREY SOUTH WEST> Hunt, J (C); Sleigh, T (Lab); Cordon, S (LD);
Clark, T (UKIP); Platt, G (Veritas).> 2001 C Maj: 861 (1.74%).> SUSSEX MID>
+Soames, N (C); Fromant, R (Lab); Tierney, S (LD); Piggott, H (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 6,898 (15.05%).> SUTTON & CHEAM> Willis, R (C); Shukla, A (Lab); +Burstow,
P (LD); Weiss, R G (Dream); Wigley, B (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 4,304 (10.84%).>
SUTTON COLDFIELD> +Mitchell, A (C); Pocock, R (Lab); Drury, C (LD); Shorrock, S
(UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 10,104 (23.25%).> SWANSEA EAST> Bland, E (C); James, S
(Lab); Speht, R (LD); Couch, C S (PC); Young, T (Green); Holloway, K (BNP);
Jenkins, T (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 16,148 (53.70%).> SWANSEA WEST> Abdel-Haq, M
(C); +Williams, A (Lab); Kinzett, R (LD); Roberts, H (PC); Shrewsbury, M
(Green); Pank, S (LCA); Williams, R (Soc Alt); Ford, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
9,550 (29.75%).> SWINDON NORTH> Tomlinson, J (C); +Wills, M (Lab); Evemy, M
(LD); Reynolds, E (Ind); Newman, A (Soc Unity); Tingey, R (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
8,105 (19.15%).> SWINDON SOUTH> Buckland, R (C); Snelgrove, A (Lab); Stebbing, S
(LD); Hughes, B (Green); Hayward, A (Ind); Williams, J (Ind); Halden, S (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 7,341 (16.92%).> * T> TAMWORTH> Pincher, C (C); +Jenkins, B (Lab);
Bennion, P (LD); Simpson, T (UKIP); Eston, P (Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 4,598
(11.42%).> TATTON> +Osborne, G (C); Madders, J (Lab); Arnold, A (LD); Gibson, M
(Ind); Bowler, D (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 8,611 (20.86%).> TAUNTON> +Flook, A (C);
Govier, A (Lab); Browne, J (LD); Miles, H (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 235 (0.43%).>
TEIGNBRIDGE> Johnson, S (C); Sherwood, C (Lab); +Younger-Ross, R (LD); Wills, R
(Lib); Coleman, T (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 3,011 (5.08%).> TELFORD> Kyriazis, S
(C); +Wright, D (Lab); Jenkins, I (LD); McCartney, T (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
8,383 (27.15%).> TEWKESBURY> +Robertson, L (C); Mannan, C (Lab); Cameron, A
(LD); Rendell, R (Green).> 2001 C Maj: 8,663 (19.17%).> THANET NORTH> +Gale, R
(C); Johnston, I (Lab); Barnard, M (LD); Stocks, T (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 6,650
(15.88%).> THANET SOUTH> MacGregor, M (C); +Ladyman, S (Lab); Voizey, G (LD);
Green, H (Green); Kinsella, M (Ind); Farage, N (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 1,792
(4.54%).> THURROCK> Hague, G (C); +Mackinlay, A (Lab); Palmer, E (LD); Geri, N
(BNP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,997 (26.76%).> TIVERTON & HONITON> +Browning, A (C);
Bentley, F (Lab); Nation, D (LD); Matthews, C (Green); Collins, R (Lib);
Edwards, R (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 6,284 (11.26%).> TONBRIDGE & MALLING> +Stanley,
J (C); Hayman, V (Lab); Barstow, J (LD); Waller, D (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 8,250
(19.44%).> TOOTING> Bethell, J (C); Khan, S (Lab); Dearden, S (LD); Vitelli, S
(Green); Perkin, I (Ind); Zaidi, A (Respect); McDonald, S (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
10,400 (27.67%).> TORBAY> Wood, M (C); Pedrick-Friend, D (Lab); +Sanders, A
(LD); Booth, G (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 6,708 (14.10%).> TORFAEN> Ramsay, N (C);
+Murphy, P (Lab); Watkins, V (LD); Preece, A (PC); Turner-Thomas, R (Ind);
Rowlands, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 16,280 (46.19%).> TOTNES> +Steen, A (C);
Burns, V (Lab); Treleaven, M (LD); Thompson, M (Ind); Knapman, R (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 3,597 (7.30%).> TOTTENHAM> MacDougall, W (C); +Lammy, D (Lab); Hoban, W
(LD); McAskie, P (Green); Alder, J (Respect); Durrani, J (Soc Lab).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 16,916 (53.53%).> TRURO & ST AUSTELL> Kemp, F (C); Mackenzie, C (Lab);
+Taylor, M (LD); Jenkin, C (Meb Ker); Noakes, D (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 8,065
(16.04%).> TUNBRIDGE WELLS> Clark, G (C); Jedrzejewski, J (Lab); Murphy, L (LD);
Webb, V (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 9,730 (24.20%).> TWICKENHAM> Maynard, P (C);
Whitington, B (Lab); +Cable, V (LD); Gower, H (Green); Gilbert, B (Ind);
Orchard, D (UKIP); Weiss, R G (Vote Dream).> 2001 LD Maj: 7,655 (15.33%).> TYNE
BRIDGE> Fairhead, T (C); +Clelland, D (Lab); Boyle, C (LD); Scott, K (BNP);
Russell, J (Respect).> 2001 Lab Maj: 14,889 (57.19%).> TYNEMOUTH> McIntyre, M
(C); +Campbell, A (Lab); Finlay, C (LD).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,678 (19.77%).>
TYNESIDE NORTH> McLellan, D (C); +Byers, S (Lab); Ferguson, G (LD).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 20,568 (54.89%).> TYRONE WEST> Hussey, D (UUP); Buchanan, T (DUP);
McMenamin, E (SDLP); +Doherty, P (SF); Deeny, K (Ind).> 2001 SF Maj: 5,040
(10.39%).> * U> ULSTER MID> Armstrong, B (UUP); McCrea, I (DUP); McGlone, P
(SDLP); +McGuinness, M (SF); Donnelly, F (WP).> 2001 SF Maj: 9,953 (19.93%).>
UPMINSTER> +Watkinson, A (C); Darvill, K (Lab); Truesdale, P (LD); Collins, M
(Green); Robert, C (BNP); Ower, R (RA); Durant, D (Third); Hindle, A (UKIP).>
2001 C Maj: 1,241 (3.67%).> UPPER BANN> +Trimble, D (UUP); Simpson, D (DUP);
Kelly, D (SDLP); O'Dowd, J (SF); Castle, A (Alliance); French, T (WP).> 2001 UUP
Maj: 2,058 (4.03%).> UXBRIDGE> +Randall, J (C); Marshall, R (Lab); Mahmood, T
(LD); Young, S (Green); Le May, C (BNP); Shaw, P (NF); Kerby, R (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 2,098 (6.28%).> * V> VALE OF CLWYD> Elphick, F (C); +Ruane, C (Lab);
Jewkes, E (LD); Jones, M (PC); Young, M (Ind); Ditchfield, J (LCA); Khambatta, E
(UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,761 (17.81%).> VALE OF GLAMORGAN> Cairns, A (C);
+Smith, J (Lab); Hooper, M (LD); Shaw, B (PC); Langford, K J (Lib); Mules, P
(Soc Lab); Suchorzewski, R (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 4,700 (10.40%).> VALE OF YORK>
+McIntosh, A (C); Scott, D (Lab); Wilcock, J (LD).> 2001 C Maj: 12,517
(25.81%).> VAUXHALL> Heckels, E (C); +Hoey, K (Lab); Anglin, C (LD); Summers, T
(Green); Polenceus, J (Eng Dem); Lambert, D (Socialist); McWhirter, R (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 13,018 (38.99%).> * W> WAKEFIELD> Shelbrooke, A (C); Creagh, M
(Lab); Ridgway, D (LD); Hardcastle, D (Green); Rowe, G (BNP); McEnhill, A
(England); Griffiths, M (Soc Alt); Sheridan, L (Soc Lab); Upex, J (UKIP).> 2001
Lab Maj: 7,954 (19.28%).> WALLASEY> Fraser, L (C); +Eagle, A (Lab); Pemberton, J
(LD); Griffiths, P (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 12,276 (32.87%).> WALSALL NORTH>
Lucas, I (C); +Winnick, D (Lab); Taylor, D (LD); Locke, W (BNP); Smith, P (Dem
Lab); Lenton, A (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,391 (29.06%).> WALSALL SOUTH> Sabar, K
(C); +George, B (Lab); Asmal, M H (LD); Smith, K (BNP); Fazal, N (Respect);
Bennett, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,931 (28.46%).> WALTHAMSTOW> Wright, J (C);
+Gerrard, N (Lab); Ahmed, F (LD); Taaffe, N (Soc Alt); Brock, R (UKIP).> 2001
Lab Maj: 15,181 (44.09%).> WANSBECK> Scrope, G (C); +Murphy, D (Lab); Reed, S
(LD); Best, N (Green).> 2001 Lab Maj: 13,101 (35.01%).> WANSDYKE> Watt, C (C);
+Norris, D (Lab); Coleshill, G (LD); Parkes, G (Ind); Sandell, P (UKIP).> 2001
Lab Maj: 5,613 (11.33%).> WANTAGE> Vaizey, E (C); McDonald, M (Lab); Crawford, A
(LD); Twine, A (Green); Lambourne, G (Eng Dem); Tolstoy-Miloslavsky, N (UKIP).>
2001 C Maj: 5,600 (11.40%).> WARLEY> Bissell, K (C); +Spellar, J (Lab);
Ferguson, T (LD); Smith, S (BNP); Connigale, M (Soc Lab); Matthews, D (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Maj: 11,850 (37.72%).> WARRINGTON NORTH> Ferryman, A (C); +Jones, H
(Lab); Walker, P (LD); Hughes, M (CAP); Kirkham, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 15,156
(38.95%).> WARRINGTON SOUTH> Bruce, F (C); +Southworth, H (Lab); Marks, I (LD);
Kennedy, P (Ind); Kelley, G (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 7,397 (16.26%).> WARWICK &
LEAMINGTON> White, C (C); +Plaskitt, J (Lab); Forbes, L (LD); Davison, I
(Green); Warwick, G (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,953 (11.12%).> WARWICKSHIRE NORTH>
Gibb, I (C); +O'Brien, M (Lab); Roodhouse, J (LD); Mackenzie, M (BNP); Campbell,
I (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,639 (21.71%).> WATFORD> Miraj, A (C); +Ward, C (Lab);
Brinton, S (LD); Rackett, S (Green); Wright, K (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,555
(11.98%).> WAVENEY> Aldous, P (C); +Blizzard, B (Lab); Bromley, N (LD); Elliott,
G (Green); Aylett, B (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 8,553 (18.13%).> WEALDEN> +Hendry, C
(C); Rose, D (Lab); Wigley, C (LD); Salmon, J (Green); Riddle, K (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 13,772 (26.11%).> WEAVER VALE> Mackie, J (C); +Hall, M (Lab); Griffiths, T
(LD); Swinscoe, B (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 9,637 (24.54%).> WELLINGBOROUGH> Bone,
P (C); +Stinchcombe, P (Lab); Church, R (LD); Dixon, A (Soc Lab); Wrench, J (
UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 2,355 (4.62%).> WELLS> +Heathcoat-Amory, D (C); Whittle, D
(Lab); Munt, T (LD); Reed, S (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 2,796 (5.45%).> WELWYN
HATFIELD> Shapps, G (C); +Johnson, M (Lab); Bedford, S (LD).> 2001 Lab Maj:
1,196 (2.79%).> WENTWORTH> Hughes, M (C); +Healey, J (Lab); Orrell, K (LD);
Pygott, J (BNP); Wilkinson, J (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 16,449 (48.70%).> WEST
BROMWICH EAST> Bromwich, R (C); +Watson, T (Lab); Garrett, I (LD); Butler, C
(BNP); Macklin, M (Ind); Sambrook, J (Soc Lab); Grey, S (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
9,763 (29.89%).> WEST BROMWICH WEST> Harker, M (C); +Bailey, A (Lab Co-op);
Smith, M (LD); Lloyd, J (BNP); Walker, K (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 11,355
(35.66%).> WEST HAM> Whitbread, C (C); Brown, L (Lab); Sugden, A (LD); Lithgow,
J (Green); Hammond, S (CPA); German, L (Respect); Mayhew, H (UKIP); Alcantara, G
(Veritas).> 2001 Lab Maj: 15,645 (53.45%).> WESTBURY> +Murrison, A (C); Gibby, P
(Lab); Hames, D (LD); Williams, L (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 5,294 (10.46%).>
WESTMORLAND & LONSDALE> +Collins, T (C); Reardon, J (Lab); Farron, T (LD); Kemp,
A (Ind); Gibson, R (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 3,147 (6.57%).> WESTON-SUPER-MARE>
Penrose, J (C); Egan, D (Lab); +Cotter, B (LD); Courtney, C (BNP);
Hemingway-Arnold, P (Honesty); Human, W (Ind); Spencer, P (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj:
338 (0.72%).> WIGAN> Coombes, J (C); +Turner, N (Lab); Capstick, D (LD);
Williams, K (CAP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 13,743 (40.91%).> WILTSHIRE NORTH> +Gray, J
(C); Nash, D (Lab); Fox, P (LD); Allnatt, P (Ind); Dowdney, N (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 3,878 (7.32%).> WIMBLEDON> Hammond, S (C); +Casale, R (Lab); Gee, S (LD);
Barrow, G (Green); Coverdale, C (Ind); Wilson, A (TEPK); Mills, A (UKIP); Weiss,
R G (Vote Dream).> 2001 Lab Maj: 3,744 (9.11%).> WINCHESTER> Hollingbery, G (C);
Davies, P (Lab); +Oaten, M (LD); Uther Pendragon, A (Ind); Abbott, D (UKIP).>
2001 LD Maj: 9,634 (16.29%).> WINDSOR> Afriyie, A (C); Muller, M (Lab); Wood, A
(LD); Wall, D (Green); Hooper, P (Ind); Black, D (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 8,889
(21.11%).> WIRRAL SOUTH> Cross, C (C); +Chapman, B (Lab); Holbrook, S (LD);
Jones, L (Ind); Scott, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,049 (12.68%).> WIRRAL WEST>
McVey, E (C); +Hesford, S (Lab); Clarke, J (LD); Taylor, R (AP); Moore, J (UKIP
).> 2001 Lab Maj: 4,035 (9.97%).> WITNEY> +Cameron, D (C); Gray, T (Lab);
Leffman, L (LD); Dossett-Davies, R (Green); Wesson, P (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 7,973
(16.20%).> WOKING> +Malins, H (C); Blagbrough, E (Lab); Lee, A (LD); Osman, M
(UKC); Davies, M (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 6,759 (15.75%).> WOKINGHAM> +Redwood, J
(C); Black, D (Lab); Bray, P (LD); Colborne, R (BNP); Owen, T C (Loony);
Carstairs, F (UKIP); Hall, M (telepath).> 2001 C Maj: 5,994 (13.67%).>
WOLVERHAMPTON NORTH EAST> Robson, A (C); +Purchase, K (Lab Co-op); Jack, D (LD);
Simpson, L (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 9,965 (31.64%).> WOLVERHAMPTON SOUTH
EAST> Fairbairn, J (C); McFadden, P (Lab); Murray, D (LD); Simmons, K (UKIP).>
2001 Lab Co-op Maj: 12,464 (45.66%).> WOLVERHAMPTON SOUTH WEST> Verma, S (C);
+Marris, R (Lab); Ross, C (LD); Mullins, E (BNP); Hope, D (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj:
3,487 (8.53%).> WOODSPRING> +Fox, L (C); Stevens, C (Lab); Bell, M (LD); Lewis,
R (Green); Howson, M (BNP); Butcher, A (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 8,798 (18.04%).>
WORCESTER> Harper, M (C); +Foster, M (Lab); Dhonau, M (LD); Lennard, C (Green);
Roberts, M (BNP); Dowson, P (Ind); Chamings, R (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 5,766
(13.04%).> WORCESTERSHIRE MID> +Luff, P (C); Gregson, M (Lab); Rowley, M (LD);
Eaves, T (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 10,627 (23.67%).> WORCESTERSHIRE WEST> +Spicer, M
(C); Bhatti, Q (Lab); Wells, T (LD); Victory, M (Green); Bovey, C (UKIP).> 2001
C Maj: 5,374 (11.99%).> WORKINGTON> Pattinson, J (C); +Cunningham, T (Lab);
Clarkson, K (LD); Peacock, J (LCA); Richardson, M (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 10,850
(25.94%).> WORSLEY> Evans, G (C); Keeley, B (Lab); Clayton, R (LD); Gill, B (
UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 11,787 (33.33%).> WORTHING EAST & SHOREHAM> +Loughton, T
(C); Yates, D (Lab); Doyle, J (LD); Baldwin, C (LCA); Jelf, R (UKIP).> 2001 C
Maj: 6,139 (14.25%).> WORTHING WEST> +Bottomley, P (C); Bignell, A (Lab);
Potter, C (LD); Baldwin, C (LCA); Cross, T (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 9,037 (20.91%).>
WREKIN, THE> Pritchard, M (C); +Bradley, P (Lab); Tomlinson, B (LD); Lawson, B (
UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 3,587 (8.65%).> WREXHAM> Coffey, T (C); +Lucas, I (Lab);
Rippeth, T (LD); Owen, S (PC); Walker, J (BNP); Williams, J (FWP).> 2001 Lab
Maj: 9,188 (30.58%).> WYCOMBE> +Goodman, P (C); Wassell, J (Lab); Oates, J (LD);
Fitton, D (Ind); Davis, R (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 3,168 (7.04%).> WYRE FOREST>
Garnier, M (C); Bayliss, M (Lab); +Taylor, R (KHHC); Oborski, F (Lib); Priest, B
(Loony); Lee, R (UKIP).> 2001 KHHC Maj: 17,630 (45.13%).> WYTHENSHAWE & SALE
EAST> Meehan, J (C); Goggins, P (Lab); Firth, A (LD); Worthington, L (Soc Alt);
Ford, W (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 12,608 (35.97%).> * Y> YEOVIL> Jenkins, I (C);
Rolfe, C (Lab); +Laws, D (LD); Livings, G (UKIP).> 2001 LD Maj: 3,928 (8.16%).>
YNYS MON> Roach, J (C); +Owen, A (Lab); Green, S (LD); Wyn, E (PC); Rogers, P
(Ind); Evans, T (LCA); Gill, E (UKIP).> 2001 Lab Maj: 800 (2.35%).> YORK, CITY
OF> Booth, C (C); +Bayley, H (Lab); Waller, A (LD); D'Agorne, A (Green); Fleck,
D (DDTP); Curran, K (Ind); Hinkles, A (Ind Hinkles); Jackson, R (UKIP).> 2001
Lab Maj: 13,779 (28.72%).> YORKSHIRE EAST> +Knight, G (C); Hoddinott, E (Lab);
Wastling, J (LD); Tresidder, C (UKIP).> 2001 C Maj: 4,682 (10.81%).>

LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              43 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             April 24, 2005, Sunday

05.05.05 ELECTION: OFF MESSAGE; AN ANONYMOUS MP WRITES

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 379 words


Monday Tory billboards appear everywhere. Happy adverts for the glories of
Persil, ISAs, Korean cars and lap dancing all disappear to be replaced by acres
of fake graffiti full of Orwellian gloom. They have a subliminal, cumulative
effect. Immigrants on early prison release are everywhere soiling our hospitals
and raping our daughters. Terror abounds. My constituents appear only in armed
groups wearing masks and surgical gloves. The ghost of Dr Goebbels stalks
Tesco's car park. Does anyone believe this rubbish? No wonder the Tories are
marooned in the polls.

Tuesday The Sun says people should vote for me. Warm gratitude fills me like
bedtime cocoa. Thanks Trevor. You've seen the light (we're winning).

Wednesday Local papers full of grand visits. Mo Mowlem comes to visit me. She is
wonderful, funny and wise and ends up calling bingo at the day centre. Cherie
Blair is on the other side of town. 'Vote for my old friend Bob,' says Mo. 'He's
a fine MP.' Cherie Blair is silent on the subject. Much encouraged.

Thursday My wonderful, amplified soapbox (a gift from Dale Campbell-Savours) is
in need of a new battery. I am sent to acquire it. 'What car's it for then
mate?' says the man in the Quick Fit overalls. 'It's for a soapbox? Never 'eard
of it. Skoda is it?' Very funny. The PM weighs in on immigration. Points out
(rightly) that our controls are about as strict as anyone else and (rightly)
that the numbers game is unreal and unworkable. I am slightly sorry we had to do
it. I thought there was a deliberate policy to let the Tories stew in this
populist stuff while we hammered home the economy and public services. Let's
keep the high ground.

Friday Attend our only public hustings at the Ecumenical Church organised by
Amnesty, Oxfam and World Development. It is a serious and worthy occasion, well
attended by everyone except my Tory opponent. He hasn't replied to repeated
invitations. My nice Lib Dem and Ukip opponents agree about most things except
splendid isolation (Ukip) and assisted dying (Lib Dem). A pity about the Tory.
He could have answered some questions about immigration and asylum instead of
sticking the poisonous stuff on billboards. Soapbox works a treat and can be
heard in Southend. Teddy Taylor beware.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              44 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 24, 2005

Election 2005: Commentary: It's Tory ideals that will win it

BYLINE: Malcolm Rifkind

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 812 words


THE OUTCOME of this general election is less predictable than for many years.
That is because our political allegiances have become far more volatile. No
longer is it only a small minority of the electorate who switch their vote. Now
it must be around a quarter to a third of all voters.

That worked against the Tories in 1997 and 2001. Today Tony Blair is the
liability and Labour loyalties are under strain.

Conversations with Labour campaigners over the past few weeks confirm the
evidence of my own eyes and ears; that Labour have lost a lot of votes compared
to 2001. I have no doubt they will lose a lot of parliamentary seats, too.

Millions of voters are angry with Blair. It is not just that he misled
Parliament and the public over the Iraq war. It is the amoral, cynical and
superfi cial manner in which he presides over government. He deserves to be
punished by the electorate and it is likely he will be.

But the Labour Party is also looking rather tired and jaded. with little to say
and it is not saying it well. They have become defensive and petulant.

That judgment is best confirmed by Labour's truly awful election slogan 'Forward
not Back'. But enough of the Labour Party. Let us look to the future and the
future is not what it used to be.

Michael Howard has announced an impressive range of new policies. They must now
be brought together so that the public can fully understand the priorities of a
Conservative Britain. There are three main themes the Tories can campaign on
over the remaining 10 days.

First, we need to emphasise our common ground with many millions of voters. I
say the common ground and not the middle ground so beloved of many. I have
nothing against the middle ground but I do not know where it is. It can only be
identified by reference to the political creeds and policies of other par ties.
Accordingly, it is constantly shifting and has no basis of principle or
philosophy. If Christopher Columbus had been a Lib Dem I suspect he would have
discovered the Mid-Atlantic.

The common ground is what we identified when we offered millions of council
tenants the right to buy their homes. Most of them had been Labour voters all
their lives but, suddenly, they found they shared more with the Tories than with
the socialists.

Likewise we occupy the common ground with most of the public on Europe. Most
people are against the euro and the new constitution but they do not believe it
sensible to resign from the EU as advocated by UKIP. They want reform and only
the Conservative Party agrees with them.

In a similar vein we support a deep and genuine alliance with the United States
but not the unconditional support that has been the hallmark of Tony Blair's
inexperience and which has antagonised many moderate voters. We occupy common
ground with the British public on immigration. Many people are utterly committed
to good race relations but are unimpressed by the government's efforts in this
sensitive area.

A second theme of a Tory Britain would be a transfer of real power back from
Whitehall to local communities. The problem of excessive centralisation was
evident during the Thatcher years but it has accelerated out of control since
1997. John Prescott has more power over planning decisions in Sussex or
Yorkshire than do their elected county councils.

John Reid imposes targets, penalties and punishments on hospitals and doctors
regardless of local circumstances and needs. Many current Conservative policies
would begin the long march back to local control over local issues. There have
already been announced serious reforms that would benefit schools, hospitals,
universities and local police services.

The third theme of a Tory Britain will be setting the people free. We did it in
1951. It needs a different approach in 2005. Law and order is about convicting
and punishing criminals but it is also about ensuring that the law-abiding
majority can go about their lives without being harassed by the government. The
recent battle between Lords and Commons over the terrorism laws has demonstrated
that liberty is fertile ground for the Tories.

The Tories must always oppose bills that would enable politicians to decide who
is imprisoned. We must be sceptical about the intrusion on privacy by identity
cards and other macho gestures by this authoritarian government.

A Conservative Party that has inherited the mantle of Wilberforce and
Shaftesbury can be content that it is being true to its traditions.

We wish to fight this general election not merely on the failures of the Labour
government but with a programme based on our own ideals of liberty,
responsibility and accountability. That way we will not only win but deserve to
win.

Sir Malcolm Rifkind, a former Foreign Secretary, is the Conservative candidate
in Kensington and Chelsea


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              45 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 24, 2005

Election 2005: Clouds gather over besieged Howard: The polls refuse to shift and
the Conservatives are seen as a single-issue party. So the next few days are
crucial for the party - and its leader

BYLINE: Martin Bentham and Gaby Hinsliff

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 2028 words


IT WASN'T quite the reception a future Prime Minister might expect. As Michael
Howard arrived at a Midlands housing estate on Thursday, Tory press officers
outnumbered the public and the only shouts of acknowledgement were from a gaggle
of Labour protesters. Even a young boy in a pushchair, whose
Conservative-supporting parents had been invited to meet Howard, was crying as
his father chatted to the Tory leader.

Builders working to complete unfinished homes nearby displayed equal disdain,
with most saying they did not plan to vote. One of the few who offered a more
considered view was Rob Renolds, a 22-year-old floor fitter from Redditch, but
his was hardly encouraging. 'I want low taxes, but I don't believe the Tories,'
he said. 'The economy has come forward under Blair so why risk throwing the dice
and having someone else?'

The unenthusiastic response - and Howard's apparent unwillingness to meet
ordinary voters - seemed to typify the uncertainty and lack of confidence which
began to grip the Conservative campaign last week.

Even later in the day, when Howard flew to Leeds to address a rally of the
party's youth movement, Conservative Future, the atmosphere remained muted with
his 200-strong audience hesitating to give a standing ovation as their leader
arrived and applauding only politely throughout much of his speech. The contrast
with 1997, when the then young pretender Tony Blair spoke to often rapturous
acclaim from passers-by, hardly suggested a mood of national change about to
sweep the country.

Among the ranks of Conservative MPs, the doubts were also beginning to grow. As
the week's campaigning drew to a close, the question many were asking was why -
despite the unveiling of tax cutting policies designed to win undecided voters -
their party remained so far adrift in the polls.

The public criticisms aired on Friday by the former ministers Michael Portillo
and Steve Norris, who both attacked the campaign's emphasis on immigration,
added to the troubled atmosphere, as did a humiliating rebuff on the same
subject from the director general of the Confederation of British Industry.

'It's the 2001 campaign all over again, just fought in a more competent way.
There is a great delusion going on that by appealing to our core voters we can
attract enough people to win,' said one senior MP.

The Conservatives' week had begun badly, with the first reports last Sunday of
discontent within the party over its stance on immigration - overshadowing the
next day's potentially vote-winning announcement of greater tax relief and
investment in pensions.

In an attempt to steady nerves, Lynton Crosby, the combative Australian brought
in as chief election strategist, sent a memo to Tory candidates admitting that
they were facing a 'difficult period' of the campaign, but insisting victory was
still attainable.

'At this stage. . . a lot happens. The media get bored and start to look for
stories of division and uncertainty,' Crosby wrote. 'All the research we are
doing shows that people who have a clear view about the issues at stake in this
election intend to vote Conservative.'

Wednesday's pledge that a Conservative government would scrap the planned
council tax revaluation, which, despite Labour's insistence to the contrary, has
prompted fears of large increases in bills was intended to buoy morale and woo
new voters. So too was the promise a day later that stamp duty would not be
levied on homes worth less than £250,000.

As the polls continued to show a strong Labour lead, ranging from 5 to 9 per
cent, some senior MPs began privately to turn against their leader. Several
asserted bluntly that Howard himself was now the party's biggest handicap.

'It's an incredibly personalised campaign centred on Michael, but the problem is
that he's a minus, not a plus,' said one former frontbencher, pointing out that
all opinion polls show Howard's personal rating to be far below Blair's. 'It is
Michael's style to keep everything to himself, but it is a mistake. He has
always had a huge desire to be on the media and when you are party leader you
can get what you want.'

A former minister expressed similar misgivings. 'It's a presidential campaign
where all three parties have got the wrong choice as president.'

Another senior MP echoed concern over Howard's prominence: 'I heard Michael
talking and he used the word "I" six times in three sentences. It goes with the
man. It is crucially important that people think they are electing a government,
a team, not just one man.'

Other Tories pointed the finger at Crosby. They claimed that his aggressive
campaigning strategy, which in Australia helped John Howard, the leader of his
country's Liberal party, to electoral success by appealing to voters' concerns
about immigration and other populist 'dog whistle' issues, were not suited to
Britain.

'Lynton doesn't understand the nuances of British politics,' said one MP. 'In
Australia, it's a two-party system with compulsory voting, so if you scare
people about the other party, they have nowhere else to go but your party. That
isn't the case here.'

To a certain extent, Howard's campaign style has been forced on him - not least
by the Liberal Democrats' 'decapitation' strategy, targeting shadow cabinet
ministers from Theresa May to Oliver Letwin and David Davis in their marginal
seats. Pinned down defending their own backyards, they have largely been absent
from the national campaign.

As the Liberal Democrat campaign chief Lord Razzall says gleefully, that has
left the party looking perilously like a one-man band 'without necessarily the
most appealing conductor'.

But if the wheels are coming off the Tory bandwagon, there is little for Labour
to be complacent about as Harriet Harman discovered last week while campaigning
at a pre-school nursery in Cambridge, a Labour-held marginal.

Crouching on a tiny chair playing dolls, the minister found her party receiving
a less than overwhelming endorsement. Few of those she met that morning were old
enough to vote, but this was what Harman calls the campaign 'beneath the radar',
designed to show voters that things they may take for granted - such as
subsidised childcare - are at stake.

To judge by the reception in Cambridge, it is uphill going. In one elegant
riverside terrace, a well-spoken middle- aged woman greets Harman and the local
MP Anne Campbell with real anguish. She has always voted Labour, agrees much of
what it has done is important, but cannot bring herself to support the party now
because of the war: 'If I vote Labour, I am voting you (Campbell) in - that's
good - but I am also giving implicit support to Tony Blair and I do not feel
able to do that.'

Such reactions help explain why MPs like Campbell - whose majority of over 8,000
is not highly marginal, but who nonetheless finds her seat on a knife-edge - are
nervous. Charles Kennedy will hold a rally in Cambridge on Tuesday night: the
anti-war Liberal Democrats are snapping at her heels here, just as they are in
Hornsey and Wood Green, Cardiff Central and Islington South. Tomorrow, Kennedy
will turn his fire on Blair over Iraq, as all three parties deploy their
strongest cards for the final intensive leg of the campaign.

THE NEXT FIVE days are crucial: at this stage in both 1997 and 2001 the polls
leapt in the Lib Dems' favour, as the 'undecideds' came off the fence and
wavering Tories accepted that John Major and then William Hague could not win.
Razzall believes voters are about to come to the same conclusion about Howard.
'Then they can feel comfortable voting for us without electing a Tory
government.'

Also vital to the coming week is the fourfold increase in postal voting which
means a chunk of voters placing crosses in boxes from this weekend.

One senior Blairite, who describes the mood as 'pretty tough', argues that
Howard could pick up hundreds of thousands of votes cast last time for the UK
Independence Party, now performing less strongly. Even if it held every vote
cast for it in 2001, Labour would still lose up to 13 seats from boundary
changes in Scotland alone. He predicts a Labour majority of just 60 to 70:
'That's what the spread bets are showing, and they're usually more reliable than
the polling.'

That would still be a healthy majority but, as one minister points out, Labour
has not gone backwards electorally since 1983: the shock of losing colleagues
could have a disproportionately unsettling effect on party morale.

For all its problems, the Tory cam paign has still caused Labour a few headaches
this week. Howard's council tax announcement was greeted with barely concealed
envy in Millbank. 'There is an element of "why didn't we think of that?"' admits
one Labour strategist.

Yet it does not seem to have shifted the polls: by the end of the week, Blair
was confident enough to start pushing back into Tory territory, with a speech in
Dover passionately defending the role of immigration in British society. The
second part of what is a long-planned fightback will come this week, when Gordon
Brown delivers a lecture on the nature of Britishness, designed to recapture
patriotism for the left.

On one thing both parties agree: the national polls putting Labour miles in
front do not match the mood on the ground, where fewer doors are being slammed
in Tory faces than in 2001 - and voters' anger is now increasingly turned on the
failings of Labour.

Francis Maude, an MP and former minister, said he believed Conservative
prospects were good. 'I think we are much closer to level pegging than the polls
suggest,' he said. 'I have been campaigning in Crawley, well down our target
list, but we are getting a lot of Labour switchers and I think that we can win.'

Derek Conway, the backbench Tory MP for Old Bexley and Sidcup, was also positive
and dismissed complaints about his party's focus on immigration.

'Immigration is a big issue in cities and suburban areas and I think it's all
very well for comfortably off politicians to take a lofty view when they
themselves haven't experienced housing difficulties or waited for hospital
treatment,' he said. 'The mood on the doorstep is good. Labour is going to have
a lot of difficulty getting its vote out.'

Even the more critical MPs believe the party has strong policies. 'Helping
people with their pensions, cleaning up hospitals and cutting paperwork for the
police are all good and popular ideas,' said one former minister. 'The trouble
at the moment is that the public often doesn't know what we are going to do. We
need to get our message across much better and attract the undecided voters.'

By Friday, however, the Conservative agenda returned to immigration as first
David Davis at the party's morning press conference, and then Howard during the
third of Jeremy Paxman's BBC interviews with the party leaders, hammered home
the message that Labour had lost control of Britain's borders.

Yet the tactic backfired spectacularly when Sir Digby Jones, the director
general of the CBI, tore into the Conservatives' plan to place an annual cap on
new arrivals in Britain, saying it would harm the economy and 'tie businesses'
hands'.

George Osborne, a Conservative Treasury spokesman, appeared on television in an
attempt to limit the damage, but, clearly rattled by the attack from a normally
supportive organisation, he floundered as he spoke outside a country mansion.

As the final full week of campaigning gets under way today, the Tories remain
outwardly confident, however. Howard will appear today on the BBC's Breakfast
with Frost programme and then press home his five key campaign themes -
controlled immigration, lower tax, cleaner hospitals, more police and better
schools - in a series of speeches throughout the week.

His strategists believe it is a message that will ultimately succeed. 'The polls
now are not good, but there is only one that counts and the result then will be
different,' said one Tory aide. 'People tell us they've had enough of Blair, a
lot of people are undecided, and there's everything to play for.'


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              46 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 24, 2005

Comment: How the Vatican can wreak revenge on Dan Brown

BYLINE: Euan Ferguson

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 28

LENGTH: 589 words


SOME BOOKS shouldn't be filmed. Obviously, some books shouldn't even be written
- and perhaps here I can get away with about my fourth snide reference in a year
to the unpickupable Wilbur Smith, for wouldn't life be sunnier if he had a muse,
a fat old rubicund garlicky muse in hobnailed boots, there simply to stamp hard
on his chilblains every time he looked like even thinking of approaching a
keyboard? But there are some good books, some excellent books, in existence
which I think would have been much better just being that, books, cardboardy
little hummocks in your pocket which can be quietly touched and opened up and
yield worlds, ideas, laughter, and all just for you.

Reviews have been affable, if a little mild, for this film of Douglas Adams's
Hitchhiker's' Guide to the Galaxy , and the British makers do deserve large and
dangerous blue drinks for finally getting it to the screen without letting
Hollywood let, for instance, Ben Stiller anywhere near it. But should it ever
have been made? Should the TV series ever have been made? Adams himself was
desperate for the film to come off, so I hesitate to pontificate, but, look,
Adams was quite a geek. He loved shiny new Fender guitars and gadgets and
proselytised for the Apple Mac for several centuries before it actually worked,
so of course he was going to want a film, big boomy modern film, but he
shouldn't have. He should have stopped, at the point when one LA producer told
him that the secret of Life, the Universe and Everything 'couldn't be' just 42.
He should have stopped not because he was dealing with a moron - this was
Hollywood, what else was going to happen? - but because he should have realised,
him with all his brains, that some humour doesn't travel well to film. The book,
as was the original radio series, is stuffed with delightful little conceits,
parentheses and asterisks and knowing throwbacks - it's a succession of wry
smiles rather than a belly-laugh, but what a succession - which rely on you
being complicit, being trusted to get it in your own way, and it worked so well
on radio: but shine arclights and literal minds across much written humour and
it turns from stardust to dust, all that hard-won complicity lost, all the
winning nuances of language rendered down to a gag.

Kingsley Amis's Lucky Jim is generally considered to be one of the funnest
novels written in English (after, of course, Warlock: A Novel of Ancient Egypt
by Wilbur Smith) but has never successfully been adapted for film. This is
because its humour lives only, if splendidly, on the page. Read of Jim Dixon's
inner thoughts as he stumbles through a drunken speech, or his boiling
misanthropic frustration fading to fatalism during an endless bus journey, and
you'll laugh, unless you're hooked up to some serious medical equipment, or a
member of Ukip: but watch someone doing a drunken speech in a film, or a bus
moving very slowly, and you'll just be wondering how long it can be before
Norman Wisdom comes on to do an exaggerated walk into a open manhole.

Mind you, mind you, I've just thought - if the filmic process can ruin good
books, maybe it can successfully ruin bad books too? If they'd just filmed Mein
Kampf , with George Formby in the lead, would we have had Kristallnacht? The
Little Book of Calm , starring John Prescott? Could the Vatican even take the
sting out of The Da Vinci Code 's unfathomable success by buying up the film
rights, then casting Ardal O'Hanlon? Just a thought, Benedict. Just a thought.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              47 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 24, 2005, Sunday

How Kilroy-Silk gave poverty the boot

BYLINE: Natalie Graham

SECTION: Features; Money; 8

LENGTH: 1305 words


The TV presenter turned politician was so poor as a child he had to wear wellies
all year round, he tells Natalie Graham.

ROBERT KILROY-SILK, 62, leader of the Veritas party and MEP for the East
Midlands, is busy canvassing support in the run-up to the general election.

Better known to millions of TV viewers as Kilroy, he was sacked by the BBC in
January 2004 for calling Arabs "suicide bombers, limb-amputators, women
repressors" in a newspaper article.

Kilroy-Silk joined the UK Independence party in May 2004, standing as their lead
candidate for the East Midlands region. The party achieved an average vote of
26.1% across the 44 East Midlands constituencies.

Born in Birmingham, he attended Saltley Grammar School and read economics at the
London School of Economics. He worked as a lecturer at the University of
Liverpool before becoming a Labour MP. He represented Ormskirk in Lancashire
from 1974 and Knowsley North following the l983 boundary review.

In 1986 Kilroy-Silk left politics to present the BBC's Kilroy audience
participation show, which he hosted for 18 years.

He lives in Buckinghamshire with his wife, Jan. They have two children, Dominic
and Natasha, and three grandchildren.

How much money do you have in your wallet?

I usually carry a couple of hundred pounds plus some euros and dollars. But I
hardly ever use cash. I don't take taxis because I have an assistant who drives
me so I can work in the car.

Do you have any credit cards?

I use my Amex British Airways card almost everywhere. I think we've got 500,000
BA miles, but we don't have time to use them. My other one is an Amex Centurion
card, which I use for its equivalent of Air Miles.

Are you a saver or a spender?

I used to be a spender. From l961 to l988 I had a permanent overdraft with
Midland Bank, now HSBC. In the late 1980s we became savers. When I was
borrowing, interest rates were 8% or more, but as soon as we began saving the
rates plummeted to about 4%.

How much did you earn last year?

Not as much as I was earning the year before when I was doing Kilroy, but
enough, certainly in six figures. Until January 2004 I was on a seven- figure
salary -more than £1m -but I am not earning that now. My company was not only
producing Kilroy, but also making documentaries for programmes like Panorama.

Have you ever been really hard up?

Yes, I was very poor as a child and I never had money for clothes when I was an
adolescent. I remember having to wear clothes that did not fit and being
embarrassed that I could not replace them.

I was born in the slums of Birmingham in l942, in a house without a bathroom and
an outside lavatory shared with the neighbours. I used to go to the local baths
once a week and pay a penny for a bath.

My father was killed in the war when I was 18 months old. I was four when my
mother remarried, and my stepfather worked on a car production line in Coventry.
I grew up with my half-sister, Madeleine. I can remember sitting in the dark by
the light of the fire, because we had no money for the gas meter.

What is the most lucrative work you have done? Did you use the fee for something
special?

Presenting Kilroy for 18 years. It was a £6m-a-year contract and I owned the
company that produced the show. I was paid a presenter's fee that was separately
negotiated. I invested most of it in a diverse portfolio, which includes
residential property and stocks.

Do you own a property?

We own our grade-two listed Georgian house, which has eight bedrooms and sixteen
acres of land, with a deer herd. In the 1980s we bought a holiday home in
southern Spain, which we still have.

Do you invest in shares?

Yes, since we became savers in the 1980s. While many people lost fortunes in the
dotcom crash, I bought boring shares such as utilities that increased in value
enormously. Of course I have made mistakes. I paid more than £3 a share for
Vodafone and the price halved. I bought BSkyB shares for a few pounds but didn't
sell them when they went up to £15.

What about Peps and Isas?

Jan and I took out Peps from the outset, and we invested in Isas for three
years.

I've stopped buying Isas in the last year or two because I want more control
over my investments.

Do you have a pension or other retirement plan?

I've got an inflation-proof pension from when I was an MP between 1974 and 1986,
and I have a pension from being an MEP for just under a year. I have paid into
private schemes as well.

Do you believe pensions are a good thing?

In principle they are, but the way Labour has treated them is appalling. Gordon
Brown has robbed people's private pensions of £5 billion a year, and the
situation where companies are going bust just as people are about to retire is
terrifying. I believe all pensions should be underwritten by the state.

What has been your worst investment?

Headhunting a managing director for Kilroy, my television company, with the
intention of breaking into light entertainment. Over 18 months she cost me
£250,000, which included her salary, a car, and salaries for the development
team.

She eventually produced one commission that ran over budget.

And your best?

Jan, my wife. We have been married for 42 years. She is the best thing I ever
got hold of. I would not have been what I am without her.

Do you manage your own financial affairs?

I employ a financial adviser and an accountant. The adviser looks after my
pension but I manage my own stocks and shares portfolio because I prefer to be
in control.

I've learnt it's best to trust your own instincts.

What aspect of our taxation system would you change?

I think too many people on low pay fall within the tax net. I would like to take
them out of tax altogether. Also, raising the basic tax threshold would
encourage people off benefits and into work. It is a scandal that people are
better off on benefits. I would move the 40% threshold up because it is catching
too many people.

I like the idea of a flat 22% tax, which is being implemented in a number of
countries in Europe. It simplifies things and there is evidence that people are
motivated to work harder and the revenue increases because more people are in
work.

If you are a pensioner you should not have to pay tax. People of 65 have
contributed enough already.

What is your financial priority?

To make my kids and grandchildren financially secure. It is a bit ambitious but
that is my fantasy, as Jan and I are secure ourselves. Frankly, it is why I am
working. It would be nice to fund my grandchildren's education, if necessary.

Do you have a money weakness?

Yes, for vintage champagne. I go for Ruinart and Dom Perignon. Ruinart is
anything from £30 a bottle upwards, depending on the year.

What is the most extravagant thing you have ever bought?

When I was earning a lot of money I treated myself to a couple of expensive
watches, but then rationalised it by saying they would go to my grandchildren.

Do you play the lottery?

What if you won?

I haven't played since they started giving money to stupid things, like
guinea-pig farmers in Peru. We used to have a go every week, using our family
birthdays for the numbers.

If I won £5m, I would make the kids and their families financially secure. I
would buy them houses and set up trust funds for the grandchildren. Then I would
buy a new watch and treat Jan to whatever she wanted.

What is the most important lesson you have learnt about money?

I have learnt to look after what money I've got, because capital can go very
quickly. I was grindingly poor many years ago.

I know what it's like to go without heating, food and clothes, and wear
wellingtons in the summer because my parents could not afford new shoes.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Fame and Fortune; Interview; Robert Kilroy-Silk

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              48 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 24, 2005, Sunday

Mandy's island holiday was with Beatles manager

BYLINE: Jon Ungoed-Thomas

SECTION: Home news; News; 5

LENGTH: 414 words


PETER MANDELSON has come under fresh pressure to declare any free holidays after
he enjoyed a Caribbean break with a publicist whose company is engaged by a firm
fighting a case in the European commission.

Mandelson, the European Union trade commissioner, was revealed last week to have
spent new year on the island of St Barthelemy with Peter Brown, who managed the
Beatles after the death of Brian Epstein. Brown founded a public relations firm,
Brown Lloyd James, in 1997.

It was confirmed last week that the firm is "on retainer" from Official Airline
Guide (OAG), a company that compiles airline schedule databases. The business
has lodged a complaint with the European commission that the International Air
Transport Association has been acting uncompetitively.

The complaint was lodged in 2003 but has still not been resolved. The company
has been lobbying British MPs about the delay.

The disclosure will increase pressure on EU commissioners to declare hospitality
they receive. Under current rules, commissioners do not have to declare
hospitality unless they think it represents a conflict of interest. Chris
Davies, the Liberal Democrat MEP, said the commission should set up a public
register for gifts.

Mandelson's aides have already confirmed that during his new year break he
attended a party given by Paul Allen, the billionaire co-founder of Microsoft.

Last year the European Union fined Microsoft £339m for abusing its market
position.

The details of Mandelson's four-day break before an official trip to Trinidad
and Guyana emerged after Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence party
in the European parliament, requested details of hospitality received by
commissioners.

The commission decided not to release the information but it was leaked to the
press.

There is no suggestion that Mandelson has acted improperly. His spokeswoman,
Claude Veron-Reville, said: "He complied with the rules at all times." A
spokesman for Brown Lloyd James said it was on a "small retainer" from OAG but
had not done any work for the company for about six months.

Brown is a highly successful English networker in New York. He began working as
Epstein's assistant and rose to become director of the Apple Corps, the Beatles'
record label. He was immortalised in the John Lennon song The Ballad of John and
Yoko with the lyrics: "Peter Brown called to say, you can make it okay. You can
get married in Gibraltar, near Spain."


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              49 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 24, 2005, Sunday

The Tories undone by their Victor Meldrew manifesto

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: Features; News; 17

LENGTH: 1423 words


Last week Detective Constable Glen Williams accused Michael Howard of pandering
to public fears about immigration and told him to stop using emotive language
and complaining about political correctness. The issue of migrants loomed large
during a week that brought discouraging opinion polls for the Conservatives,
even if many Tory candidates believed that the issue was going down well on the
doorstep, and Howard showed no signs of growing shy about the topic.

Still, it is hard to believe that in the Conservative election plan immigration
was meant to dominate the campaign as it has. The Tories are no longer calling
the shots. Immigration remained in the headlines last week because of
hard-hitting speeches from Jack Straw and then the prime minister. They were
designed to shore up the middle-class Labour vote and make liberal Tories
uncomfortable.

Blair alleged that the Conservatives had become a one-issue party. Certainly in
a boring election campaign in which voters are probably not listening carefully,
the Tory promise to crack down on migrants may be the only one of the party's
policies to cut through.

Some Conservatives will be jubilant about that. Immigration, they argue, is a
huge public anxiety. People are fed up with political correctness and feel
betrayed that until now politicians have been unwilling to speak about it.
Labour voters are as likely as Tories to have strong feelings on the subject, so
some Conservatives see the chance to expand the party's support beyond the core
of 1997 and 2001.

But in that case it is surprising that the Conservatives slipped back in the
polls as the issue became more prominent. Perhaps that is because promises count
for little if sceptical voters doubt that a Conservative government would really
be tougher than Labour.

Maybe it is because when the Tories focus on immigration they send a message
that they have not changed. Contrary to the myth that immigration has been
ignored in the past, in fact it featured prominently in the last Conservative
campaign. "Come with me and I will give you back your country," said the then
leader William Hague. The election result, just to remind you, was another Tory
massacre.

Indeed it is striking how similar this campaign is to the last one. In 2001 the
Tory plans for the economy involved a slightly slower rate of growth in public
spending than Labour's and a correspondingly tiny reduction in taxation. Then as
now the Conservatives promised to spend no less than the government on education
and health. In both campaigns the party has targeted its tax policies on helping
the elderly and encouraging saving.

Four years ago the economic policy (for which I was responsible as shadow
chancellor) was intended to prove that the Tories had moved forward. After a
heavy defeat a party has to show the voters how little it resembles its old
self. By almost matching Labour spending plans the Tories were showing they no
longer opposed generous funding of public services. The promised tax cuts
challenged people's prejudices about the Conservatives because they were not
designed to help the rich.

Nonetheless, it seems that in this election voters look for further proof the
Conservatives have been transformed. The party has not entirely shed the
negative image it acquired in office. Howard shows he recognises that problem
because he proclaims the party is now different. But deploying the same policies
as last time does not help prove it.

According to the pollster Andrew Cooper the party has achieved an unfortunate
double. Its promise of tax cuts is disbelieved but its proposed reductions in
public spending growth are feared.

During this campaign, as in 2001, the Conservatives have seemed too little
interested in public services other than the police. Certainly they call for
cleaner hospitals and more discipline in schools. But they have not proved that
they could make those things better. Voters like a bit of optimism. A Victor
Meldrew manifesto of moans about modern Britain is hardly uplifting.

One thing has changed since 2001. Hague campaigned to save sterling. This time
the Tories have hardly mentioned Europe. They may figure that it is hard to
breathe life into the subject. That's because there will be a referendum on the
constitution (if it is not returned to the drawing board by a "no" vote in
France) and there will be another on the euro, but probably not during the next
parliament.

There is a more substantial reason for Tory reticence. In 2001 the few people
who thought opposing European integration supremely important were drawn to the
UK Independence party rather than the Tories. So for the Conservatives to hype
the issue would be counterproductive.

That shows the Conservatives can learn from experience. There are other
examples.

They have bowed to the inevitable and shifted position on some social issues,
for example by accepting civil partnerships between same-sex couples. They are
now fielding more women, blacks and gays as candidates in target seats.

So the problem with highlighting immigration is not just that it convinces the
electorate that the party is unreformed. It also disguises the progress that the
party has made in other areas. No wonder newspapers have reported unease among
senior Tories about how the issue is crowding out all others.

Howard may have believed that as the son of refugees he could raise the issue
without having his motives questioned. Moving though his parents' story is, it
has not protected him from criticism.

In any case he seems to find it awkward to speak of personal matters. Maybe
being a barrister makes it hard for him to drop his guard. It is striking that
Tony Blair, who is thought to be a less good lawyer, displays a passion that has
somehow survived all his legal training in being dispassionate. Howard, by
contrast, eschews displays of emotion. His grandmother's death in Auschwitz has
presumably influenced him greatly and should be a key to our understanding of
him. Last week he mentioned it on a party election broadcast. It was offered as
evidence that he cannot be racist. But he gives us little hint of how that
family history has shaped him.

Howard's political opponents do not accuse him of racism. But they suggest that
some of those he seeks to attract are racists. A respectable party has to guard
against gathering unrespectable supporters.

That is the issue raised by Williams. He could be dismissed as having a vested
interest because he belongs to the Black Police Association. But perhaps the
Tories should be less contemptuous of political correctness.

Huge numbers in the public services have acquired through their training a
heightened sensitivity to how ethnic minorities may be offended. Teachers, civil
servants, health workers and broadcasters, as well as the police, are now highly
attuned to "inappropriate language". In crude numeric terms more voters may be
repelled than attracted by a political campaign that features immigration (and
gypsies) so prominently.

Despite the tragedies of Howard's family history, on immigration the Tory party
has a perception problem. People expect it to be closer to being racist than
Labour because they have formed a view of the Conservatives over many years. For
that view to be changed, the party would have to act counterintuitively, to
strike positions that were the opposite of what people would expect.

Consider the case of Ed Matts, the Tory candidate in Dorset South who doctored a
photograph for his election address. The genuine picture showed him next to Ann
Widdecombe demonstrating against the deportation of a much-respected immigrant
family. He carried a placard that read "Let them stay". It was altered to read:
"Controlled immigration ... not chaos."

Suppose for a moment that he had decided to print the original. That would have
made voters reassess the Conservatives. It would have suggested that they were
tolerant, humane and flexible, and furthermore that these astonishing qualities
were to be found even in such a previously misjudged creature as Widdecombe.
That would have been clever politics.

Given the size of Labour's majority the Tories never had more than a slim chance
of winning. What lay within their grasp was to use the campaign as a chance to
persuade voters they had changed. While Williams complains about the party's
pandering I worry about its squandering that opportunity.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk

Nick Ray


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              50 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                 Sunday Express

                                 April 24, 2005

STARS ARE OUT FOR YOUR VOTES; LEADER CROSS BENCHER

BYLINE: JULIA HARTLEY-BREWER

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 23

LENGTH: 233 words


AFTER the dazzling array of Britpop stars shunted in by Labour to appeal to
younger voters ahead of the 1997 election, things are rather less stellar this
time around.

Damon Albarn, Noel Gallagher, Peter Gabriel and Mick Hucknall were happy to
hitch up to New Labour's bandwagon eight years ago, but this time its best
offering is TV cook and Norwich City fan Delia Smith.

Labour can also count on Man United boss Sir Alex Ferguson, comic Eddie Izzard,
and actors Liz Dawn (Vera Duckworth in Coronation Street), Prunella Scales,
Maureen Lipman and Richard Wilson.

Lib Dems are counting on former TV agony aunt Claire Rayner, ex-BBC boss Greg
Dyke, Germaine Greer and Nicholas Parsons, while the SNP famously has actor Sean
Connery in its ranks.

The Tories rustled up novelist Frederick Forsyth, Sir Tim Rice, chefs Clarissa
Dickson Wright, Marco Pierre White and Antony Worrall Thompson - and former
Spandau Ballet star Tony Hadley.

They've also managed to win back Joan Collins to the fold after a brief
flirtation with Ukip while Robert Kilroy-Silk was on board.

Kilroy, a celebrity in his own right, can personally endorse his new Veritas
party.

Meanwhile Ukip professes itself unbothered by Collins's defection.

The party has its own celebrity endorsement.

After all, former TV chef Rustie Lee is standing as a Ukip candidate. Is there
no end to the glamour?

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              51 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             April 24, 2005, Sunday

Europe is missing

SECTION: Features; Sunday Comment; Pg. 020

LENGTH: 729 words

Four years ago, William Hague put the slogan "Keep the Pound" at the very heart
of the Conservative election campaign - and was pilloried after his defeat for
taking that strategic decision. It is one of the ironies of this election that
Michael Howard's policies on Britain's membership of the European Union are
considerably more radical than Mr Hague's, but have attracted negligible
interest.

The 2005 Conservative manifesto promises not only that Britain would stay out of
the euro under a Tory Government, but that Prime Minister Howard would negotiate
"the restoration of our opt-out from the Social Chapter" of the Maastricht
Treaty. Most ambitiously, the party pledges to repatriate control of the
nation's fisheries - an entirely desirable step that would certainly involve a
dramatic redefinition of Britain's membership of the EU.

Mr Howard's repositioning of his party on Europe - together, no doubt, with his
tough policy on immigration - has helped to staunch the flow of Tory votes to
the UK Independence Party, a flow that gave the Conservatives justified cause
for alarm in last year's European elections. But in the general election
campaign, the Tory leader has said very little about the issue of Europe. It
doubtless suits both Mr Howard and the Prime Minister that European policy
should not, as pollsters say, be "salient" between now and May 5.

As a veteran of John Major's Cabinet, the Tory leader knows better than most how
divisive the issue can be in his party. Mr Blair, meanwhile, has no desire so
close to polling day to draw attention to his enthusiasm for EU integration - a
deeply felt passion that sets him sharply at odds with mainstream public
opinion.

Our ICM poll today shows that only 4 per cent of voters regard Europe as the
most important issue in the election. That is perhaps to be expected, given its
marginal presence in the campaign. But it would be a shame if European policy
did not play a significant part in voters' deliberations, as it is one of the
areas where there is a pronounced difference between the two main parties. On
the economy, for instance, Labour and the Tories quibble over whether the State
should spend 42 or 40 per cent of the nation's income. But on Europe, Mr Blair
and Mr Howard offer quite different visions.

It has become almost orthodox to assume that if France votes against the EU
Constitution on May 29 then Mr Blair - if he is still Prime Minister - will drop
his plans to hold our own referendum. That is a possible, rather than a certain,
consequence of such an outcome in France. In an interview with The Independent
last week, Mr Blair addressed the question very carefully. "There will be a
referendum in Britain provided there's a constitution... I am assuming there
will be a referendum in Britain."

The British electorate should make the same assumption if it re-elects Labour.
Even if France votes "No", there will be desperate efforts across the EU to
salvage the Treaty and to pile the pressure on the French to change their minds
in a second ballot. Having already promised not to stand for a fourth term, Mr
Blair would have nothing to lose and - as a man obsessed by posterity - much to
gain by sticking with his plan for a referendum.

Mr Howard, in contrast, has given a categorical assurance that the Tories "would
give the British people the chance to reject [the EU Constitution's] provisions
in a referendum within six months of the General Election". Uniquely in British
history, the Government would be calling a referendum and campaigning for a "No"
vote. This would give the British people an opportunity to send a clear signal
to our European partners that they regard the EU Constitution as a step too far
towards the establishment of a European superstate and that Britain will
co-operate no longer in this out-dated and discredited project. In eight years,
Mr Blair has done next to nothing to advance the so-called Lisbon agenda of
market liberalisation in the EU. It is time for a fresh approach.

Mr Howard is absolutely right to focus his attention on the so-called
"bread-and-butter" issues that have a daily impact upon the voters' lives. But
his instincts on Europe are, and have always been, both sound and shrewd. The
translation of those instincts into government policy would be greatly to the
benefit of the people of this country.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              52 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             April 24, 2005, Sunday

Anything to declare, Mr Barroso? A COMMISSION ALL AT SEA

BYLINE: By Christopher Booker

SECTION: News; Pg. 014

LENGTH: 1399 words

When it emerged last week that two EU commissioners, Peter Mandelson and JosI
Manuel Barroso, the Commission's Portuguese president, hadn't declared
hospitality received on the yachts of two billionaires, it was inevitable that
British media attention would centre on Mr Mandelson. But far more serious are
the issues raised by President Barroso's admission that last year, just before
he took office, he spent six days on the yacht of Spiros Latsis, one of the
richest and most powerful businessmen in Greece.

The previous week, all 25 commissioners had agreed that Mr Barroso's holiday
posed no conflict of interest. Yet what they may not have known was the
substantial involvement of Mr Latsis's group of banking, petroleum, engineering
and construction companies in the new Athens International Airport, at pounds
1.6 billion the most expensive airport project in Europe. This was constructed
by a German company Hochtief, with the aid of nearly pounds 900 million-worth of
funding from EU taxpayers and the EU's European Investment Bank (EIB).

Although Hochtief and the Latsis group are partners in a series of
part-EU-funded construction projects in Greece, the European Commission's chief
spokesman said last week that she was "not aware that the group had benefited
from EU funding". Even more relevant is the ongoing controversy over EU funding
of the airport at Spata, near Athens, on which I reported here as long ago as
March 2004, and in which it now emerges that the Latsis group has significant
interests.

For three years, up to the highest level, the EC has been refusing to answer a
stream of questions from MEPs and journalists on how the contract to build and
run the Spata airport was given to Hochtief. Although the German company
contributed only euros133 million ( pounds 90.8 million) to the euros2.28
billion project, it now has the right to manage the airport for 30 years,
through a company of which, although it holds only a 45 per cent stake (the
remaining 55 per cent held by the Greek government), Hochtief can nominate a
majority of the board and appoint the chief executive.

Exhaustive investigation by Basil Coronakis, the editor and owner of the Athens
and Brussels-based journal New Europe, showed that the sub-contractors who
carried out the actual construction work on the airport did not receive more
than euros320 million. This is way below the euros2.28 billion ( pounds 1.6
billion) total cost stated by Hochtief in April 2003. Among the questions raised
by Coronakis since then, and which the Commission has persistently failed to
answer, are:

1) How, in order to qualify to administer a contract representing more than
euros2 billion of public money, did a private, profit-making company set up by
Hochtief come to be designated by the Commission as an "authority" in 1996, when
EU rules make clear that an "authority", responsible for monitoring that the
money has been spent correctly, must be state-owned or at least non-profit
making? How could a recipient private company itself be that "authority"?

2) How did the EIB come to lend euros997 million ( pounds 700 million) to the
project, at a time when its total cost was still being shown as only euros950
million, and when EIB rules allow loans of only 50 per cent of a project's
infrastructure cost?

3) Why in costings accepted by the Commission was a sum of euros416 million (
pounds 290 million), shown as interest, added into the total twice?

4) What happened to the nearly euros2 billion discrepancy between the estimated
actual construction cost and the final costs claimed?

In March 2003, three MEPs, a German, a Dane and a British Conservative, Bashir
Kanbhai, asked Romano Prodi, the Commission President, for an itemised cost
analysis and sight of the invoices. In April, Mr Prodi replied that the European
Court of Auditors was investigating the project.

In July 2003, a senior Commission official of the directorate-general in charge
of the Cohesion Fund (DG-Regio) assured the MEPs that the project was now under
investigation. Nothing has subsequently been heard of any outcome to these
investigations.

At the end of July 2004, according to a Greek version of the airport authority's
annual report, Mr Prodi attempted to close the "Spata dossier", before handing
over to the new Commission under Mr Barroso, by calling a top-level meeting of
three directors-general. They proposed that the Greek government should pay a
penalty of euros12.7 million, under two technical headings, although Cohesion
Fund rules say that such a penalty must be paid by the "authority", not by a
government. No more has been heard of this proposal. But when, last autumn, a
new Greek government was set to investigate the Spata contract, the Commission
sent a list of every EU-funded Greek project other than Spata, with a hint that,
if all these were investigated, the government might have to return to Brussels
billions of euros. Nevertheless the contract is now under investigation by
Greece's public prosecutor.

A further twist to the tale has been provided by Yannis Terezakis, a Commission
official working in DG-Tren, the directorate-general dealing with energy and
transport.

As someone who must travel between Athens and Brussels up to 45 times a year,
often with his family, Mr Terezakis became angered by Spata's exorbitant airport
charges, which cost him nearly pounds 7,000 a year. In November 2003,
emphasising that he was writing as a private citizen, not as an official, Mr
Terezakis lodged a dossier on the airport saga with Olaf, the Commission's
anti-fraud unit.

In April 2004, Mr Terezakis was summoned to Olaf's offices in his official
capacity to answer questions. He refused, on the grounds that his was a private
complaint and that, as an official, Olaf could order him to keep quiet. After
further exchanges, Mr Terezakis applied to the European Court of Justice for his
right under EU law to see key documents on the airport project which the
Commission was withholding. This month he was summoned by the Commission's
administration (DG-Admin) to attend a disciplinary tribunal. Again he refused to
attend, on the grounds that he is not conducting his case as a Commission
employee who can be silenced for a breach of disciplinary rules.

All this shows how, under the Barroso Commission, Spata is still a highly
sensitive issue - which makes it relevant to question the wisdom or otherwise of
Mr Barroso's original refusal to declare as an interest his holiday last August
with Spiros Latsis, whom Mr Barroso explains has been a friend since they met 30
years ago as students in Geneva.

The Latsis commercial empire has been closely involved with Hochtief in both
constructing and managing Spata airport. Through Hellenic Petroleum, Greece's
largest oil company, it holds the contract for all fuel supplies to the airport,
through an EU-funded pipeline built by a Latsis engineering company. Latsis has
a 50 per cent stake in the contract for running most of the airport's
"ground-handling" - almost everything except control of the aircraft themselves.

Latsis's construction arm, Lamda, is a partner with Hochtief in a series of
vast, part-EU funded motorway projects across Greece, as part of the "Trans
European Network". And between 1999 and 2004, during the time when Spata airport
was completed, the Commission last week revealed that the giant EFG Eurobank
Ergasias banking group, controlled by Latsis family interests, held an exclusive
contract to handle all EU structural funds coming to Greece, totalling euros28
billion.

All this evidence might have given Mr Barroso pause to reflect when he was first
asked last February by Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party's
MEPs in Brussels, whether he had taken any holidays that might raise a possible
conflict of interest.

We may also question whether his fellow-commissioners were fully briefed when
this month they endorsed his decision that he had nothing to declare, on the
grounds, as Mr Barroso's spokesman put it, that, as far as she knew, his host
had no "business ties with the EU".

Last Wednesday, in a speech in Geneva, President Barroso reaffirmed his belief
that the European Union should be more "transparent" in its dealings with the
public. He was giving the speech as a guest of the Latsis Foundation.

Additional research by Dr Richard North

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              53 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 23, 2005

Did taxpayer pick up bill for Mandy's 'free' flights?

BYLINE: SAM GREENHILL; NICK CRAVEN

SECTION: ED_1ST; Pg. 18

LENGTH: 321 words


THE cost of Peter Mandelson's New Year Caribbean holiday flights may have been
picked up by the taxpayer, it emerged yesterday.

The EU Commissioner used an official visit to Trinidad and Guyana to stop off
for a five-day private jaunt on the island of St Barthelemy.

Under commission rules, he would have been responsible for paying any extra
costs associated with his personal detour.

But because Pounds 144,000a-year Mr Mandelson gave up the business class seat to
which he was entitled for the transatlantic leg of the journey and flew in
economy, the EU saved around Pounds 2,500.

Last night, critics accused him of doing official business on the cheap in order
to secure himself free flights.

MEP Nigel Farage, leader of the UK Independence Party in Brussels, said: 'Mr
Mandelson is the world's most important trade negotiator and ought to travel
business class because he has a VIP job to do.

'Apparently he chooses not to, in order to save himself money. This is another
example of the abuse of his position, putting his own personal pleasure before
the importance of his job.' Asked who had paid Mr Mandelson's fare, spokesman
Claude Veron-Reville said: 'It was an official trip. When there is an additional
cost, the Commissioner pays.' The Commission's chief spokesman, Francoise Le
Bail, said: 'My understanding is that Mr Mandelson flew the whole way from
Brussels in economy class, when he was entitled to go business, and saved the
Commission almost Pounds 2,500. There is a rule that applies to all
Commissioners and Peter Mandelson applies the code of conduct.' 'Roughing it' is
not Mr Mandelson's usual style.

After his first resignation from the Government in 1999, over a dodgy Pounds
373,000 home loan, the Labour backbencher globe-trotted at other people's
expense. Over nine months, the former Trade Secretary made 13 trips which would
have cost around Pounds 20,000.

LOAD-DATE: April 24, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              54 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 23, 2005

As a ruthless campaign nears its end, both True Blues and Greens can sense
power, the third-force tag is up for grabs and lost-deposit fears mount

BYLINE: JOHN GREECHAN

SECTION: ED_SC1; Pg. 114

LENGTH: 965 words



THERE is, of course, no chance of reasoned debate; absolutely zero possibility
of anyone on either side trying to see the issue from the other's point of view.

'Yah booh sucks!' is about the most sensible argument we can expect to hear, as
those at both ends of the spectrum discard sound logic in favour of braying
point scoring and crude insults.

Who do Old Firm fans think they are, politicians on the stump? Alas, they can be
almost as blinkered and, with several more weeks of this particular campaign
remaining, we shouldn' t expect any sudden consensus to emerge.

The contest to become first among equals in Scottish football, an annual
competition with only two real contenders, has become all- consuming now that
we're entering the silly season.

Tomorrow represents the final head-to-head of the campaign and, though the last
returns won't be in until May 22, few are buying into official attempts to
downplay its importance.

A win for the True (Light) Blues, marshalled by leader Alex McLeish, may just
give them the momentum needed to upset the odds.

Victory for the Greens would, on the other hand, almost guarantee a healthy
majority of the glory once all of the points are counted.

The potential for a six- point swing, just when it can do the most damage, is
enough to make the most coolheaded analyst sound like Peter Snow describing a
landslide victory for UKIP. Or the Lib Dems, if you want to get really
ridiculous.

Incumbent and leading Green candidate Martin O'Neill is flushed with the
achievement of three successful returns in four attempts.

Recent history is on his side.

He presides over a loyal group who follow his every order as if the Chief Whip
was standing over them with particularly incriminating photos and a hotline to
the gossip pages.

But O'Neill does have a few internal political problems - and there are clearly
some trust issues between the public face of the party and the man responsible
for balancing the books. Remind you of anyone?

Offering an alternative to the prevailing power of recent years is McLeish, who
has been forced to rebuild his organisation from the ground up.

A fair few bed-blockers have been shifted out of Murray Park during the tenure
of his leadership, which has been under almost constant scrutiny from the core
constituency.

McLeish has trailed for much of the campaign and, despite capitalising on some
midterm blues and scoring a minor by- election triumph in the Hampden district,
the failings of some frontline activists have undermined his best efforts.

His last spell in power, courtesy of a narrow decision, came two years ago,
though that achievement has been consistently subject to opposition claims that
the Greens were undermined by European issues at the time.

In truth, Europe is a problem area for both main parties, who have reverted to
concentrating on domestic matters for now.

The would-be third forces on the Scottish scene, as you might expect, are almost
insanely pro-Europe. They are desperate to gain entry.

In pole position are the Youth Movement, headed by Tony Mowbray. Capable of
working a crowd like few other leaders, 'Mogga' has so far failed to make an
impact against the established powers, despite significant gains.

Supporters have been turning out in huge numbers for the major tests but,
somehow, the sheer weight of bodies has yet to deliver a tangible reward.

After years in the wilderness, a place at the European table is now the least
they expect.

Competition comes from the Northern Alliance, with Jimmy Calderwood leading and
Jimmy Nicholl riding shotgun.

They are trying to regain the glory days experienced under former union
firebrand Alex Ferguson, now a champagne - or maybe Merlot - socialist at the
richest club in the land. It has not been an easy struggle but early gains
suggest better returns ahead.

Slipping out of the position they've held for so long are the Baltic Front,
formerly known as the Gorgie Independence Brigade.

Depending on the outcome of their debate with the Youth Movement today, the
Baltics may be looking for a new candidate to front up the next campaign,
although Robert Kilroy Silk has denied starting this rumour.

At the head of the whole organisation is a mysterious figure from the east who
talks grandly about challenging for the big prize.

You can almost hear Vladimir Romanov, a big fan of the recount when things don't
go his way, telling his activists to 'go back to your constituencies and prepare
for power!' Though that might not happen any time soon, at least there is no
chance of the Edinburgh-based party losing their deposit. The same cannot be
said for the fringe groups flirting with disaster at the bottom of the polls.

The Tangerine Party have benefited from hefty investment and a change of
leadership has reinvigorated members, though so far they've been outperformed by
old rivals the DDD (that stands for Dee, Dee and, er, Dee).

Athletic Support have suffered awfully from losing key operators at vital stages
of campaigning, while the West Lothian Problem - a party now, as well as a
political conundrum - suffer from the lowest natural support of all, yet they
still manage to achieve targeted victories when needed.

All of the above have shown varying degrees of promise during the course of a
long campaign. Some of these hustling hucksters, however, simply won't be able
to deliver on their promises.

The run-in is going to be loud, uncompromising and deeply unpleasant at times.
But it still beats the hell out of listening to shifty Tony, unctuous Michael,
knackered Charlie and smug Alex delivering their daily dose of claim, counter-
claim and outrageous porkers.

You know, voting only encourages them

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              55 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 23, 2005, Saturday

EU Commissioners should be more open

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 027

LENGTH: 210 words

SIR -- Congratulations for discovering the truth about Peter Mandelson's holiday
meeting with Microsoft billionaire Paul Allen (report, Apr 21). I wrote to all
of the EU Commissioners in February asking for details of hospitality received.
Under the rules, they should have replied within six weeks, but there was a
collective decision to ignore my request, which is typical EU Commission
behaviour.

My reason for asking the question was my concern that big business is allowed to
lavish hospitality on the decision-makers of the EU in secret.

These are companies directly affected by EU law and although there is no
suggestion that Mr Mandelson's evening amounted to a conflict of interest or
wrongdoing, the potential for abuse is obvious. Even my cynical mind cannot
believe that it took Mr Mandelson only six weeks in his new job before this
Caribbean yacht party with the world's seventh richest businessman. I will now
be calling on Commission President Barroso, who denies any wrongdoing in
enjoying a cruise at the billionaire Latsis family's expense, to appear before
the European Parliament and explain his failure to disclose these facts. I am
not optimistic, as the EU seems to be incapable of reform.

Nigel Farage MEP (UKIP)

London SW1

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              56 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 23, 2005, Saturday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: ELECTION DIARY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 9

LENGTH: 238 words


Good day

The serial Labour rebel Bob Marshall-Andrews has won enthusiastic backing from
Mo Mowlam for being a great representative in his Medway seat. Cherie Blair was
there too but was silent on the subject. 'I found that very amusing,' the
dissident QC said.

Bad day

Labour's manifesto has slumped to 4,200 in the Amazon sales ranking. Customers
who bought it also bought, among other things, How Mumbo-jumbo Conquered the
World, by Francis Wheen.

Quote of the day

'My drug is adrenaline.' All-round action man and former part-time SAS commando
David Davis, when asked whether he has ever inhaled.

Gaffe of the day

UKIP internal communications director Quentin Williamson's e-mailed reply to BBC
Radio 4's You and Yours show on parties' attitudes to the disabled is (almost)
biblical. He wrote: 'On disabilities, I am afraid that we do not have specific
plans to alter arrangements for them, although we do question whether the vast
amounts of money spent on making railway stations accessible would not be better
spent on paying for the old, lame and blind to travel by taxi, many of which
will take wheelchairs these days.'

Who knows?

Is screenwriter Russell T Davies having a little joke at the Prime Minister's
expense in the new series of Doctor Who? This week's storyline involves reports
of WMDs which take 45 seconds to launch and become the subject of United Nations
debates.

LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              57 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 23, 2005, Saturday

MEPs call for 'naive' Mandelson to explain

BYLINE: Daniel McGrory

SECTION: Home news; 4

LENGTH: 468 words


EURO MPs plan to summon Peter Mandelson to explain his Caribbean holiday with a
millionaire businessman.

While the embattled Trade Commissioner tried yesterday to brush aside all
questions about his behaviour, prominent groups in the European Parliament are
demanding details of whom he met during his trip over the new year. Mr Mandelson
dismissed talk about his trip as "tittle tattle" and vowed to say no more about
it. He spent yesterday with Russia's Trade Minister.

However, senior MEPs said last night that the former Labour Cabinet Minister
could be censured if they were not satisfied with his explanation.

They also want Jose Manuel Barroso, the Commission President, to tell the
Parliament next month why he accepted a free family holiday on the yacht of a
Greek shipping billionaire. Senhor Barroso is offering only a written
explanation.

A coalition of Socialist, Green and Independent MEPs will tell the two men to
stop taking such potentially embarrassing and compromising "freebies" from those
they may have to deal with professionally.

Timothy Kirkhope, leader of the Conservatives in the European Parliament,
described Mr Mandelson as naive.

Nigel Farage, the leader of the UK Independence Party, who is among the MEPs
setting the agenda for next month's parliamentary session, said: "A growing
number want a full debate on this as they are pretty appalled at Mandelson and
Barroso.

We want a vote on the commissioners' integrity and a change in the rules about
them declaring hospitality."

The Commission said that there was no question of either man doing anything
wrong or of any conflict of interest.

Mr Mandelson's spokesman said: "The matter is closed as far as we are concerned.

We want to discuss serious business like textiles and trade."

Mr Mandelson had refused to reveal the identity of his holiday host, saying only
that he was a "personal friend of long standing".

MEPs discovered yesterday that it was Peter Brown, a PR specialist who once
acted for the Beatles and whose client list includes Lord Lloyd- Webber, Ralph
Lauren and Disney. The two men have been friends for 20 years.

Mr Brown had rented a villa on the island of St Barthelemy for the new year
holidays. Mr Mandelson is understood to have stayed there for five days before
moving to Guyana and Trinidad on Commission business.

Mr Brown is now chairman and chief executive of the PR firm Brown Lloyd James.

From his headquarters in New York he represents the charity Third World Network,
which lobbies on trade rules to help the developing world, and the Corporation
of London, which is affected by commission policies on financial services, and
lobbies for less regulation and harmonisation.

A friend of both men said they did not discuss business.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              58 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 23, 2005, Saturday

Day 18

SECTION: Home news; 31

LENGTH: 329 words


THE DAY IN BRIEF

TONY BLAIR gave his first campaign speech on immigration, accusing the
Conservatives of trying to exploit people's fears. He pledged to introduce a
points system for economic migrants and tagging for asylum-seekers. But as Mr
Blair swept out of the room, Nick Robinson of ITV News, asked: "Why are there
only white faces in the audience?" Mr Blair did not answer, but the insinuation
that hung in the air, which could be summed up as "Labour, forward, not black",
sent his team into a panic

MICHAEL HOWARD admitted that overall taxation would rise under a Conservative
government, despite the tax cuts offered by the party.

Having dodged the issue all week, the Tory leader finally said that the tax
burden would go up if he were Prime Minister, but by far less than under Labour.

His remarks are likely to irritate rightwingers in his party who are
disappointed that he is offering such modest tax cuts, worth only £4 billion. He
also refused to rule out national insurance rises, despite criticising Tony
Blair for doing the same.

THE LIBERAL DEMOCRATS set out plans to tackle discrimination against women,
promising a "maternity income guarantee" of £170 a week for new mothers and a
comprehensive equality Act to target discrimination at work.

THE UK Independence PARTY faced criticism after Quentin Williamson, a senior
official, suggested that funding to make railway stations accessible for
disabled people would be better spent paying for "the old, the lame and the
blind" to travel by taxi

FUEL TAX protesters threatened to disrupt the election with direct action
including refinery blockades and go-slows on major routes. Andrew Spence, a
spokesman for the Fuel Lobby, said it would begin its campaign on May 3 if tax
on fuel was not reduced

TODAY

Michael Howard campaigns in the South East Simon Hughes, Lib Dem president,
meets voters at St George's Day celebrations in Trafalgar Square and Covent
Garden


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              59 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 23, 2005, Saturday

Campbell spin-locum

BYLINE: Philippe Naughton

SECTION: Home news; 40

LENGTH: 287 words


Rogers Cadenhead's experience reminds me of what I love best about the internet:
one cute idea, a few hours' development and suddenly you've got a property.

The biggest hit of the election campaign is the Who Should You Vote For site,
which tapped into a vein of voter uncertainty to become the most visited
political site within a few days of its creation last week.

It presents the visitor with 23 statements, such as "Smoking should be banned in
public places" or "Foxhunting should be made legal again" and asks you to rate
them from strongly agree to strongly disagree. Then it tells you which party you
should be voting for -usually Green, Lib Dem or UKIP, but only because they have
discernibly different policies.

But my favourite has been the Alastair Campbell blog, a beautifully deadpan
parody site. Referring to the Who Should You Vote For quiz, "Mr Campbell"
describes how he tried it on Tony Blair: "No matter how many times he tried to
submit his answers, it kept giving the same response: that he should vote
Conservative. New technology not to be trusted and have fired off rather
colourful e-mail to owners of site telling them so."

There is speculation among political hacks as to who is behind this blog. The
tone is perfect, the content exquisitely restrained; only the spelling is
suspicious - it's just too good. The consensus was that it had to be an inside
job.

So I e-mailed and asked. The reply came: "I'm not a journalist, I'm not a
Parliament insider or connected with politics in any way!!" Interesting,
although it could be a fiendishly postmodern double-bluff from Britain's top
spin doctor.

www.whoshouldyouvotefor.com

www.alastair-campbell.blogspot.com


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              60 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 22, 2005

Mandelson under fire over party on billionaire's yacht

BYLINE: DAVID WILLIAMS; NICK CRAVEN; SAM GREENHILL

SECTION: ED_2ND; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 766 words


EURO MPs last night accused Peter Mandelson of a 'naive error of judgment' after
it emerged he attended a glittering New Year's party on the yacht of Microsoft
billionaire Paul Allen in the Caribbean.

They questioned how the EU Trade Commissioner could have agreed to be a guest of
the Microsoft cofounder when the company is at loggerheads with Brussels in a
longrunning legal wrangle.

Mr Mandelson has shrugged off the criticism as 'tittle-tattle', but yesterday he
faced new demands to explain the visit and the five-day private holiday he had
added to an official trip to Trinidad and Guyana.

Tory MEPs' leader Timothy Kirkhope said yesterday that by joining Mr Allen on
the 414ft superyacht The Octopus for a star-studded soirEe, Mr Mandelson had
shown a 'lapse of judgment' raising 'potential conflicts of interest'.

He added: 'I can't believe he, of all people, could be so naive. It's the
equivalent of a High Court judge enjoying the hospitality of someone on whose
affairs he may be required to deliver a judgment.' At the heart of MEPs'
concerns is the decade-long dispute in which Microsoft was last year fined
Pounds 355million by the EU for allegedly abusing its dominant position in the
home computer market.

Although Mr Allen, 52, no longer has any role in the management of the software
giant he founded with Bill Gates, he remains Microsoft's second-largest
shareholder, with a multibillion-pound stake in the firm.

Mr Mandelson was due to begin an official visit to the Caribbean on January 4 to
discuss trade with the EU, but chose to take a private side-trip to the idyllic
island of St Barthelemy, a favourite of Princess Diana, beforehand.

Arriving on December 30, he stayed as a house guest with flamboyant British PR
man Peter Brown, a longtime friend, at his villa on the island, where a fellow
New Year's guest was Cilla Black.

Last night, Mr Brown diplomatically refused to comment on his holiday guest,
saying: 'I can't confirm that.' Among others on the island were Uma Thurman,
Woody Allen, Denzel Washington, Steven Spielberg and George Lucas.

Several were invited aboard Mr Allen's magnificent yacht, said to be the second
biggest in the world, carrying two helicopters and even its own submarine.

A spokesman for Mr Mandelson admitted last night that he went to the party
hosted by Mr Allen, but added: 'He was among more than 100 guests. He met Mr
Allen but had no conversation with him.' Mr Mandelson's private break only
emerged this week after UK Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage asked for details
of all hospitality received by the 25 Euro Commissioners since their nominations
to the Commission.

They replied that any hospitality was a private matter and they alone would
decide whether it might amount to a conflict of interest. As the row escalated,
Mr Mandelson was inaccurately reported by a German newspaper to have accepted a
free holiday in Jamaica. His office then issued a statement, saying that in fact
he had been on a 'private trip' in advance of his official mission, but refused
to divulge where.

Mr Mandelson, on an official visit to Mali this week, insisted he had done
nothing wrong. Asked if there was a conflict of interest between being a
Commissioner and accepting free hospitality, he said tersely: 'I don't think you
even have to ask that question.' He added: 'There is no record to be put
straight. Now do you want to talk about cotton, about poverty in Africa, about
the needs of developing countries, or do you want to retell Brussels
tittle-tattle?' The EU's chief spokesman Francoise Le Bail insisted yesterday
that there had been no breach of the EU's code of conduct. 'A conflict of
interest is for a Commissioner to have taken part in the business activities of
a company and later to take a decision affecting that company,' she said.

'Having a drink surrounded by 100 people is no basis for a conflict of
interest.' She added that Mr Mandelson would take part in any future discussions
the Commission might have about Microsoft.

The Commission's rules are in marked contrast to those applying to British MPs,
where any gifts or hospitality should be declared.

Mr Farage said: 'Mandelson had hardly been in Brussels for six weeks before he
was up to his old tricks.

'It's outrageous that the EU Commission refused to answer my question properly
only for this information to leak out. Now we know that they were silent because
there was something to hide.' He said he would be calling for a debate in the
Euro parliament and for an overhaul of the code of conduct.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: SUPERYACHT: OCTOPUS HAS TWO HELICOPTERS AND A SUBMARINE. INSET: OWNER
PAUL ALLEN PETER MANDELSON: STAR-STUDDED SOIR E

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              61 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 22, 2005, Friday

Ex-MP muddies the water in Falmouth

BYLINE: By Richard Savill

SECTION: News Pg. 010

LENGTH: 623 words

HE HAS no mobile phone, no leaflets, no megaphone, no website and very little
money.

Yet despite his modest resources, David Mudd is being watched closely by rival
candidates in the three-way fight for the marginal seat of Falmouth and
Camborne.

The Cornish constituency, now held by Labour with a 4,527 majority but once
represented by Sebastian Coe, is one of the Tories' most winnable seats.

Another previous Tory incumbent is Mr Mudd, who held the seat for 22 years in
the 1970s and 1980s.

His surprise announcement this week that he is to stand in his old constituency
at the age of 71 has added to the volatility of a seat where infighting in the
local Tory association recently led to the expulsion of six members of its
committee.

As Mr Mudd re-entered the fray in his old stamping ground, constituents who had
not seen him for 13 years stopped him to shake his hand.  "My father used to
vote for you," said the owner of a shop selling belly button jewellery. "That is
good enough for me."

Twenty years ago Mr Mudd presented Kim Uren, who runs a knitwear shop, with a
dance medal.  "You probably don't remember me," she said, pledging to vote for
him.

Few believe Mr Mudd's claim to be a serious contender for the seat but the
extent of the "Mudd effect" is impossible to predict. He was a popular
constituency MP and observers believe he will undoubtedly "muddy the waters" by
picking up votes from the other parties. The Tories' worry is that he will split
their vote.

Mr Mudd insisted that his decision to seek election was not intended as
criticism of the Tory candidate, Ashley Crossley, but was an attempt to
capitalise on "growing disillusionment" with traditional party politics. He
denied the suspicion that rebel local Tories persuaded him to stand. He said he
had always been "obsessively independent" -- a characteristic that has always
gone down well in the far South West.  "My campaign is based on changing the
political system to prove that people's voices count," he said.

Six members of the local Conservative committee were sacked this year for
allegedly promoting the UK Independence Party. During the bitter row, Mr
Crossley's homosexuality was highlighted and there was an attempt in September
to de-select him.

Mr Crossley, a London barrister with a Cornish upbringing, played down the
significance of Mr Mudd's reappearance.  "It doesn't seem to have affected my
vote on the doorstep," he said. "From the phone calls I have had a lot of people
are even more determined to vote for me." Mr Crossley said his homosexuality had
not been an issue and had been referred to by only two of the many voters he had
canvassed.  "They merely asked if it was true," he said. "There were no
derogatory comments."

The Labour MP, Candy Atherton, 49, a former mayor of Islington, has also been in
the spotlight. She was recently accused at an employment tribunal of asking a
former research assistant to "dig the dirt" on Mr Crossley. She was cleared of
the allegation.

Miss Atherton believes the Tories will be her main challenger.  "I am not
detecting the Mudd effect," she said.

Mr Crossley and Miss Atherton face a strong challenge from Julia Goldsworthy,
26, the Liberal Democrat candidate, who is local. She loves gig rowing, a
popular local sport. She says that Mr Mudd can only boost her chances: "Having a
former Conservative MP standing against an official Conservative is going to
split their vote."

There is also expected to be good support for Ukip, whose candidate, Mick Mahon,
57, is a well-known local fisherman.

But after the ructions in the Tory party, Miss Atherton's employment tribunal
and Mr Mudd's sudden reappearance, Falmouth and Camborne's voters are asking:
"What next?"

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              62 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 22, 2005

Comment & Analysis: My dirty secret is out

BYLINE: John O'Farrell

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 25

LENGTH: 779 words


Late at night, behind closed doors, men across the country are secretly logging
on to certain internet sites and furtively entering a few details. They click
their way through their private predilections and feel a shiver of guilty
anticipation as they wait to see what will pop up on the screen: "Based on your
answers, you are a Liberal Democrat."

Suddenly the door opens and a shocked wife is standing there in her dressing
gown. "What's that you have accessed? 'You are a Liberal Democrat' - urgh, that
is disgusting! How could you sink so low?"

"Darling, it just popped up on the screen! Honestly, all I did was tick the box
saying I was in favour of higher taxes and banning smoking in public . . . "

"What if people find out you have these secret Liberal fetishes? Can the
computer people trace your identity?"

"I'm not a Liberal, honestly, I'm Labour. Although if we had a local income tax
. . . "

"God, you've got it bad, haven't you? You can sleep in the spare room tonight."

One of the unforeseen crazes in this election has been the popularity of
voter-questionnaire websites. One of the most popular is HowShould YouVote.com,
then there is HowShouldIVote.com and ShouldIBotherToVote.com, but not many
people have got to the end of that one. There is also one for teenagers: "Which
party would you support if under-18s could vote in the election: a) Dunno; b)
Beyonce; c) What election?

Because we so enjoy answering questions about ourselves, hundreds of thousands
of voters have done one of these electoral tests and been quite surprised by the
results.

"Oh dear, it says here that according to my answers I should be voting for Ukip
or the BNP!"

"So what's the problem?"

"Well, I'm supposed to be the leader of the Conservative party." (This
embarrassing internet result comes on top of the Tories' other recent technical
problems, when the white hoods were all the wrong size and the burning cross
kept going out.)

On the website The Public Whip I dutifully entered my postcode and as an
experiment entered "don't know" for every single issue. The website told me (and
I'm not joking): "You should vote Conservative in Vauxhall." I actually found
this vaguely reassuring. So that's who all those Tory voters are: the people who
haven't got a clue about anything.

On the site WhoShouldYou VoteFor.com, every single combination of policies seems
to produce a vote for Charles Kennedy. I clicked on the dot for annexing the
Sudetenland, declaring an Anschluss with Austria and invading Poland: "Based on
your responses you should vote Liberal Democrat in this election." These sites
are of course incredibly simplistic: your views on foxhunting are judged to be
of equal value to your views on, say, the economy, education and the health
service, which they are not; I feel far more strongly about abolishing those
crappy little UHT milk capsules, and that doesn't even feature. And not a single
question asking if I was in favour of a weather report on Newsnight. They also
ignore local factors and the tribal nature of our political affiliations. I'm
Labour, that's just part of who I am. Cut me and I bleed red. Oh, hang on,
that's everyone, isn't it?

The world wide web is a wonderful thing. But the internet also has its hazards.
For example, it's ages since I emailed my credit card details to claim that
surprise win in the Nigerian lottery and they still haven't got back to me. And
look at Robert Kilroy-Silk: a warning to us all of the dangers of buying sun
lamps on eBay.

Clicking on buttons in response to 20 questions cannot even begin to penetrate
the complexity of the issues in front of us. Inside the brain of every
thoughtful voter are hundreds of competing concerns and counter arguments: "I
was against the war in Iraq but I'm in favour of Labour's big increases in
overseas aid." "I might be in favour of the Liberals' higher rate of tax, but
I'd rather have Gordon Brown running the economy than - er, actually, who would
it be under them?" "I'm concerned about some of Labour's negative campaigning
but on the other hand I don't want to risk getting that racist vampire as prime
minister."

And finally on May 5 it suddenly ceases to be complex and becomes incredibly
straightforward as your mental cursor hovers over one simple last question: "Who
do you want to run the country for the next four or five years: Tony Blair and
Gordon Brown or Michael Howard and Oliver Letwin?" Why would anyone need a
computer to help them with that one? Though of course under Maggie Thatcher we
never even had the internet. Do we really want to go back to those days?

comment@guardian.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              63 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 22, 2005

G2: The anti-war vote: We marched then . . . but what now?

BYLINE: Helen Pidd

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 2841 words


Two years ago the coming war in Iraq drove hundreds of thousands of people,
manyof whom had never protested about anything before, on to the streets in some
of the biggest demonstrations this country has ever seen. But how will the
widespread anger and disillusionment created by the conflict shape the way
people vote next month? To find out, Helen Pidd tracked down eight men and
womenwho were captured in photographs of these historic marches.

Tony Compton, 64, from Hitchin in Hertfordshire, is retired and attended the
February 15 2003 London march.

'If Labour hadn't gone to war in Iraq, I would have been totally happy voting
for them'

It was the first serious march I'd been on. I was really furious at the way in
which the government was siding with Bush and had not seen through him, and I
thought I ought to go and say something. It was a question of standing up and
being counted, whether it made a difference or not. It was much noisier than I
expected, a lot of whistling and shouting. I was glad I went, but I didn't enjoy
it - I don't like being in large crowds.

I'm what used to be described as "soft left" - considerably to the left of a lot
of people in the Labour party nowadays. I was a member of the party until 1999,
and I have voted for Labour in every election, including the last two - apart
from one failed attempt at tactically voting Liberal a long time ago. I resigned
from the party when it became obvious that Blair was looking happily across the
Atlantic rather than to Europe, when he dropped any idea of proportional
representation, and when Labour started getting at asylum seekers and looking
over its shoulders at the tabloids and so forth.

If the government hadn't gone to war in Iraq, I would have been totally happy
voting for them. Who I vote for hardly matters, though, because our MP is Peter
Lilley, and I can't imagine him being dislodged. I'm very torn as to whether to
cast a protest vote, or whether to vote Labour. The trouble is, the more I see
of Michael Howard, the more I think Blair isn't that bad.

On so many things, Labour really is very good. Economically, I'm very happy, but
there are one or two things I'm not happy about, apart from foreign policy, such
as top-up fees and its attitudes towards asylum seekers. But I think,
privatisation aside, it is doing a good job with the health service and
education.

If I vote Labour in May it will be because it's the least bad possibility. A
small Labour majority, or even a Labour/Liberal Democrat coalition, would be
better for the country than the big Labour majority, and far, far better than
the Tories getting in.

Rosalind Hibbins (circled left), 59, from Holborn, London, is a retired public
servant

As one individual, you don't expect to change history, but I tried to go to
every demo I could, out of a sense of duty. My aim was to continue to show those
who might feel isolated that they're not, and also to show that there are
thousands of people who wish to disassociate themselves from any illegal action,
and also to express sorrow for those who are being killed on all sides.

With earlier demos, there was some kind of feeling of hope, whereas by this
point it was just a bunch of civilised people turning out to disassociate
themselves. This one was particularly difficult because I was nursing a foot
injury from six months before; I joined the march halfway along so I wouldn't
have to walk too far.

My main objection to the war was the illegality of it, and the lack of
rationality displayed. All of us as citizens need to have constraints of
rationality and law, and I feel statesmen have to do the same in order to do
their job. Blair seems to think that if he believes in his convictions more than
anyone else, that makes whatever he does OK. Well, I'm sorry, it's not.

I voted for Blair in 1997, but I can't remember who I went for in 2001. I am the
archetypal floating voter; I really do vote according to what seem to me to be
the merits of the case at any one particular time.

I'd rather not say positively who I'm going to vote for this time, because I do
think that one of the hallmarks of our society used to be the secret ballot. But
I can say very strongly that it will not be Blair, it will not be anyone who
could support him in this way of conducting business. I am in a tricky position,
however, because my MP, Frank Dobson, did oppose the war. So I need to weigh
this very carefully because I'm very disappointed that people like him are not
using their influence to cast a vote of no confidence against Blair. I may feel
that I need to vote even against a good MP in order to have my voice recorded as
one who can have nothing more to do with Blair or anybody else who has anything
to do with him.

If Labour hadn't taken us to war, I would have quite likely voted for them. I
like the way Labour has helped to get people who were alienated from society to
believe that they can provide for themselves and their families, like single
mothers in the inner cities. It has also put a lot of money into the health
service, the results of which we won't see for several years. If Labour does get
in, and I think it may well, I hope it's with a sufficiently decreased majority
so that Labour MPs decide to cast a vote of no confidence in Blair. I think
Robin Cook would be a much better leader.

Phoebe Moore (circled left), 30, a PhD student with dual American-British
nationality, living in Manchester

Although I study and teach politics, before the Iraq war I hadn't ever been on a
demo. I just felt so strongly about this issue and could see through the fact
that it was just a knee-jerk reaction to September 11. I'm half-American and
since the day Bush was elected I knew that things were going to go wrong. I've
never agreed with a single war in my life but it hit closer to home because of
living in Britain. Especially on the first march in London in February 2003, I
really wanted to believe that we still lived in a democracy, that somebody
somewhere was listening.

In 2001 I voted for the Lib Dems, and I'm very leftwing; for me it's the only
thing that makes sense. Aside from the war, I don't think Labour has done a good
job. It hasn't made any effort to change any of Thatcher's institutions or to
improve union relations, and its original manifesto has been completely ignored,
for example with university tuition fees. Blair has contradicted himself, but
it's good to see a lot of in-fighting within his party, because it shows that
there are people who wish him to be held to account. I don't agree with
foundation hospitals either. I don't know if another party could have done
better, but Blair should have turned to the EU rather than the US for a
partnership.

I'm confused, very confused, about who to vote for. I'm not going to vote for
Labour, but I feel that if I vote for the Lib Dems, I'm going to split the vote
and not stop Labour from winning. I'm going to vote though, because I don't
think I have a right to whinge about politics if I don't turn out myself.

Paul Sussman (circled bottom left), 38, an author from south London, who
attended the February 15 2003 march in London with the group Jews for Justice
for Palestinians

I was delighted when Labour won in 1997, although I approach these things with a
certain degree of cynicism. I didn't think that they were going to be most
amazing government that had ever been, but I felt an enormous amount of optimism
when they got in.

My great problem coming up to the election is that Labour has done a pretty good
job. It could have been a bit more radical given its massive majority, and there
are areas where I feel it hasn't delivered particularly well - on identity
cards, for example - but on the economy it has been really good, and I think
Brown has been an excellent chancellor. It has also performed well on issues
such as the health service, education and, to an extent, transport, given the
state the Tories left it in during their years in power. And I do think that
Labour is best-placed to continue managing the economy and public services. But
having said all that, the Iraq war remains a fundamental issue for me, and, I'm
afraid, a fundamental barrier to voting for Tony Blair in this election.

The war has ultimately been beneficial, I can acknowledge that. The world is a
better place without Saddam Hussein, but the fact that Blair hasn't had the
courage to acknowledge that we went to war too soon and on a false prospectus is
for me a fundamental issue of trust and probity. I get very annoyed with Peter
Hain banging on about horrible middle class liberals who are prepared to
sacrifice this country to the Conservatives because of the Iraq war. It's not as
simple as that.

I'm a huge believer in state services and a healthy economy, but above all, I'm
a huge believer in looking to the leader of the country and thinking, yes, this
is someone I can trust, and I can't with Tony Blair. If you can't trust the
leader of your country on something as fundamental as going to war, you suddenly
stop trusting them on other issues too.

If I thought I could vote for the Labour party and against Tony Blair, I
probably would, but our system is such that I can't do that, so I'm probably
going to vote Lib Dem. I certainly won't vote Conservative. They're an utter
shambles.

My MP is Kate Hoey, an exceptionally able and intelligent woman, who opposed the
war. The problem that I have, along with almost every person who is going to
vote against Labour because of the war, is that there is no other democratic way
of making our views heard.

Ruth Powell (circled above left), 23, is a can-can dancer and aerialist from
Brent, London

I've grown up in a leftwing, Labour-voting household, and my grandparents on my
mother's side were members of the Communist party. I was too young to vote in
1997, but it was very important for my family. We were over the moon.

I'm not an activist by profession, but I went on about six Stop the War marches
because I believed that the motives for going to war with Iraq were morally
wrong. I think I did know in my heart of hearts that it would make no difference
whatsoever, though.

I voted for Labour in 2001, but I felt it was the last chance I was going to
give them. It hasn't been a disaster from start to finish, but they've let
themselves down as a party and they've let down where they come from. I'm
disappointed with the way in which they've behaved because I always thought of
Old Labour as being the honest party - the Tories had the sleaze. I hate the
attitude of Blair's government, the spin and the importance placed on public
relations with Alastair Campbell and all that. I think it's a very dishonest
kind of politics.

I voted for Sarah Teather in the Brent byelection in 2003, when the Lib Dems
ousted the Tories, because she opposed the war. So I was thinking of the Liberal
Democrats again, but my mum is panicking that if enough Labour voters who were
against the war vote for the Lib Dems, we might split the vote, and we'd end up
with a Conservative government again. I'm trying to figure out whether I can
stomach voting Labour, because I'd rather have a Labour government than a Tory
one.

Mike Stephenson (circled above), 69, a retired youth worker from Tarving in
Cheshire

When friends found out that I'd gone on the march, they were rather surprised.
I'd never been on one before, and wasn't thought of as a political person. I'd
been given an MBE and had been made a lieutenant of the Royal Victorian Order by
the Queen, which doesn't normally sit alongside being a protester.

Up until the 2001 election, I'd voted Labour all my life, from growing up in a
working-class community in Leeds. I'd describe myself as slightly left of
centre; I'm a humanitarian, I support Nelson Mandela, I read the Guardian rather
than the Daily Telegraph - that's the sort of person I am. When Blair got into
power in 1997, and gave that speech when he said, "We are the servants now, the
people are the masters", I remember saying to my wife, "This is going to be
fine." He was embracing all those women, saying we were going to have a good,
clean government after all that Tory sleaze, and I thought, "Oh, there's some
hope here."

Strangely enough, I feel that the Labour party has done some good things. I
cannot deny it. It has delivered on youth unemployment; the minimum wage was a
good move and generally Brown's handling of the economy has been quite masterly.
But all that has absolutely no significance for me compared to the war. That
overrides everything. The war and Blair's handling of it, and his lies, and
reading how he put his arms around Bush and said, "I'll support you, George",
cancel out all the good things.

I will not vote Labour again as long as Blair is in power. If he'd gone and
Brown had come forward with some sort of apology about Iraq, I would have
definitely gone back to Labour. I can't vote for the Conservatives because they
supported the war really enthusiastically too, so I'm left with the Liberal
Democrats. I've been looking into them and they seem good. I like their foreign
chap, Menzies Campbell. If we were looking for an honest man in politics, we've
found it in him. I'd love him to be foreign secretary. I think it would be
marvellous if we swept the board clean and had a Lib Dem government, but it's
hardly likely, is it?

Brian Matthews (circled right), 57, a vicar from Wrexham, who attended the march
on February 15 2003 in London

I'd describe myself as a thinking voter; I look at the parties and assess their
policies according to what I believe in. I've voted for Labour in most elections
in the past, but I switched to the Lib Dems in 2001 because I didn't think that
there was a real Labour party any more. I come from the Welsh valleys
originally, a real Labour heartland, and what we were getting from Tony Blair
isn't what I had been brought up to believe Labour stood for; Labour should mean
putting people first, before the system.

I travelled down to London for the big march with my wife and daughter because I
felt very, very strongly that the war was wrong. I'm a minister from the
Christian church and am totally against the use of violence to sort out
problems, whether on a personal or an international scale.

Labour has done some good things, notably keeping its word about reducing infant
class sizes, and the tax credits for the poor are excellent. Plus, this is one
of the first governments to keep the economy steady and keep unemployment low.
I'd be willing to pay more in taxes too - you can't have public services without
paying tax, and as long as you get something back for your money, that's OK. But
Iraq is still the big, bad thing for me.

I don't know yet who I'm going to vote for. I'm still very much weighing things
up at the moment, but I think I might vote Lib Dem again because they opposed
the war. If I thought it came down to a choice between Labour and the
Conservatives, though, I might just grit my teeth and vote Labour to stop Howard
getting in - but I wouldn't own up to it.

Peter Halsall, 49, a teacher from Lewisham, London, pictured on a march in
Ormskirk shortly after the war started

In the past, I've voted Labour on the basis that it was the best - or the least
worst - of all available options, but as I am to the left of the party, I've
never voted for them with any illusions. In 1997 I just wanted to get rid of the
Tories and in 2001 there weren't any other viable options.

The war is a big sticking point for me. I just couldn't see any justification
for it whatsoever, which is why I went on the marches - out of a mixture of fear
and anger, I suppose. It's not just the war that will prevent me voting Labour
again, though. I'm appalled by what it has done in taking away people's civil
liberties and with student top-up fees. I recently was a student, studying
social policy for three years, and I found it difficult enough with all the debt
then.

Bridget Prentice is my MP; she's a Blairite, New Labour with a capital "N". She
wrote me quite a nice response to a letter I sent her about the war and top-up
fees, but I can't forgive her. Apart from the main three parties, the only
others fielding candidates in my constituency, as far as I know, are Ukip and
the Greens, so I'll be voting Green. I do agree with their policies more than
anyone else's, but it is basically a protest vote against Labour. I wish we
actually had some sort of choice, like in Spain, where there was a major party
in genuine opposition to the policies of the sitting government.

Realistically, though, I can't see any scenario in which Labour isn't returned
to power, even if I and all the people from the anti-war movement voted against
the government.The best we can hope for is a hung parliament, because it would
tell Blair and New Labour that people aren't satisfied. It would also mean that
the push to the right might stop.


LOAD-DATE: April 25, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              64 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 22, 2005, Friday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: WHERE THE PARTIES STAND

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 2

LENGTH: 217 words


LABOUR

Points system for economic migrants, but no cap on numbers. Permanent residency
for skilled workers with fluent English; 'Britishness test'. Will cut number of
asylum applications through tougher controls. Asylum-seekers lose right to
remain.

CONSERVATIVES

Annual quotas for refugees and economic migrants. Australian-style points system
for economic migrants. Offshore asylum processing centres. New border police and
24-hour monitoring of some ports. Renegotiate UN convention on refugees.

n UKIP

Zero net immigration. Points system for economic migrants, including from EU;
border checks to enter or leave UK. 24-hour surveillance of all ports. 'Welcome'
for genuine refugees but faster removal of others. Citizenship to require a
'Britishness' test.

LIBERAL DEMOCRATS

Annual quotas for economic migrants from outside the EU, based on economy's
needs.

Common EU system to share refugees, but no annual limits. Asylum- seekers would
be allowed to work; failed asylum-seekers could keep benefits.

BNP

Withdraw from refugee treaties; stop asylum-seekers entering United Kingdom. End
immigration from 'Third World' and EU unless Britons cannot fill jobs. Withdraw
from EU. Stringent border controls. White foreigners such as Australians could
still settle.

LOAD-DATE: April 22, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              65 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 22, 2005, Friday

You know that Cherie Blair? She's my cousin

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Home news; 32

LENGTH: 529 words


LET'S get one thing straight from the start: I am not stalking members of the
Blair family.

This week I knocked on the door of the Prime Minister's father, accompanied by a
cheeky Conservative candidate. At Reading, my next stop, I was chatting with
another Tory hopeful in the middle of a park when a man approached with his dog
and started bending the candidate's ear about a crumbling footpath. He told us
that his name was Mike Thompson, from Liverpool, and "Cherie is my cousin" (to
be accurate, he is a first cousin of her father, Tony Booth).

And the bombshell? He would be voting Tory. One of the reasons was that he was
not impressed by attempts to sell the patch of park we were standing on. This
issue is at the heart of the battle for Reading East by a group of campaigners,
one of whom, Isobel Ballsdon, suggested that I visit the constituency.

Reading East was a Conservative seat for 30 years until Jane Griffiths was
elected in 1997. She was a prominent Blair Babe but clashed with members of her
own local party and was deselected. Tony Page, a local councillor, was chosen as
the new candidate.

Mr Page is a councillor for the ward that contains King's Meadow, a large park
and playing fields by the Thames. The Labour-run council wants to sell a corner
of the park to developers. An initial plan for an hotel was scuppered when
English Heritage awarded listed status to the semi-derelict open-air Edwardian
baths on the site. The council is rethinking how to market the land.

Mrs Ballsdon insists that the baths can be reopened and that the green space
around them should remain untouched. The Green Party and the Tories are behind
her. Ms Griffiths backs the campaign but Mr Page, say the campaigners, does not.

Mr Page was too busy to meet me. He agreed to talk on the phone but at the
appointed time he did not answer and did not respond to messages.

A newsletter issued by Reading Labour Party last month said that the Tories had
been "digging dirt" about convictions Mr Page received relating to sexual
activity in public lavatories. He received conditional discharges for two
offences, the most recent in 1995.

"I'm not proud of what happened, but no one bothers nowadays if consenting
adults show affection towards each other. My sexuality is no secret and it has
never affected my ability to represent my constituents," Mr Page told the
newsletter.

"I don't know where he gets the idea we have been digging dirt," Rob Wilson, the
Tory candidate, said. "It's all in the public domain. We would be opposed to
anybody having sex in toilets. It is a matter of public decency and judgment."

And on that note I left Reading to seek obscure members of the Blair clan
elsewhere.

*If you went to school with the great-niece of someone who once met Tony Blair's
grandfather and you live in an interesting constituency, we really ought to
meet.

e-mail me at damian.whitworth@thetimes.co.uk

* READING EAST

MP: Jane Griffiths since 1997 (retiring)

2001 result:

Labour 19,538

Conservative 13,943

Liberal Democrat 8,078

Green 1,053

UK Independence Party 525

Others 488

Majority 5,595


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              66 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 22, 2005, Friday

There's nobody here but us Others

BYLINE: Philip Howard

SECTION: Features; 69

LENGTH: 761 words


UNLIKE his gruesome fictional namesake in The Silence of the Lambs, the great
Carthaginian general Hannibal was not, as far as we know, a cannibal.

He was a real terror in other ways, however. He led elephants over the Alps. He
almost crushed Rome. Like Nelson, he was monocular. And, from the Roman point of
view, he came to a gratifyingly sticky end. In short he was an ideal bogeyman
for Roman parents to frighten their children. He played the part that the Pope
and Boney once played for British children.

In much the same way politicians use external bogeys such as Hannibal, or
immigrants, Gypsies and asylum-seekers, to frighten their electorates like silly
sheep into the pen that they intend to drive them into. For Romans, Hannibal and
his Carthaginians were the Other. Otherness is a fashionable academic template.
We use the Other to define what we are.

The Carthaginians were the Romans' mortal enemies; they represented barbarism,
cruelty, primitiveness, luxury, and everything unRoman. And this was odd,
because Carthage was itself a distorting mirror of Rome.

Both cities had aspirations to empire. Both claimed to have been founded in a
land of primitive barbarians by an exile from the East. Dido came from Tyre to
found Carthage, Aeneas from Troy to found Rome. Both civilisations were
perceived by the other as decadently overcivilised and, at the same time,
barbarously primitive.

Both had a discreditable foundation myth in which the rival suitor served as a
metaphor for the displaced native population. The fear of that native population
remained even after they had become neighbours, allies and citizens. The Other
had its own Other.

We British have even more difficulties than the Romans did in defining who we
are against our Other. Fashionable Others at present include Muslims, though we
forget that many are now third and fourth generation, invited over here from the
Raj to do jobs that we "natives" refused to do.

Mad monocular natives such as UKIP say that Europe is the Other, forgetting that
we are also European, attached to the Continent by centuries of civilisation and
culture. The Germans are still seen as our Other in frequent films.

But Angles, Saxons and Jutes were Germans. English is a slack Teutonic language,
modified by Romance and other influences from around the world. The Romantic
movement and most modern scholarships were initiated in the UK from Germany. Our
best music is German, from our naturalised composer Handel, to Bach, Mozart and
Beethoven, whom we regard as honorary Brits. And the most passionate Wagnerians
I know are British.

But before the Anglo-Saxons, the Romans came to Rye. They brought us baths,
wine, underfloor heating and a thousand other benefits of civilisation that we
were not to rediscover for 14 centuries after they left us. Three quarters of
our vocabulary comes from Latin. We can even tell which Latin words were adopted
by our Teutonic ancestors before they crossed the Channel. For example, such
inchoate Anglo-Latin words retain the more "classical" pronunciation of V as W,
as in "wine" from vinum and "pillow" from pulvinus.

For centuries the French were the Other to the English. But we English are
Norman-French. In spite of the ravings of Otherphobes, France is the most
popular destination for Britons on holiday, emigrating, buying second homes, or
just crossing the Manche to fill our white vans with booze and fags. Much of our
Latinate vocab is mediated to us through Anglo-French. Our culture and
civilisation have advanced in tandem with, and antithesis to, our Others across
the Channel.

Add in centuries of immigration and emigration, from the pink empire's imagined
corners, and we are as much a hotchpotch of Otherness as our Other cousins
across the Atlantic.

America prides itself on being a melting-pot of all nations. So should we pride
ourselves. The Pilgrim Fathers escaped their religious and political Other in
England in order to find a New World, and destroy the ancient civilisation of
the Other that was already there.

If we were to look for the truly native Brits who still survive in these
islands, we should need to find stocky, swarthy folk in Cornwall and Anglesey.
And if the rest of us were to return to whence our ancestors came, I should have
to go to Ithaca, and these islands would become empty.

By the accidents of history, Britain is Everyman's Other. We are all alien
immigrants and asylum-seekers. Our true Britishness is toleration and generosity
to Others. We are the Other.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              67 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

Mandelson's holiday secrets revealed EU trade commissioner was guest at drinks
party aboard Microsoft co-founder 's yacht , reports David Rennie

BYLINE: BY DAVID RENNIE

SECTION: News Pg. 005

LENGTH: 571 words

PETER Mandelson's Caribbean holiday destination, the subject of intense
speculation since his New Year break, was revealed yesterday.

The European trade commissioner was on the island of St Barthelemy, with film
stars, peers, pop musicians and leaders of world business.

Among those whose hospitality he enjoyed was Paul Allen, the co-founder of
Microsoft, and the world's seventh richest man.

Mr Mandelson's spokesman confirmed last night that the commissioner attended a
drinks party given by the software entrepreneur.

The confirmation of Mr Mandelson's party schedule on board Mr Allen's yacht
Octopus is certain to pour new fuel on a debate currently raging in Brussels
over official secrecy, and the commission's newly stated principle that social
ties can never give rise to a conflict of interest.

Mr Mandelson's spokesman, Claude VIron-RIville, said the two men met, but did
not discuss the affairs of Microsoft, which has been involved in a decade-long
legal and regulatory dispute with the European Union.

In March 2004, before Mr Mandelson became a commissioner, the EU fined Microsoft
a record pounds 355 million for allegedly abusing its dominant position in the
computer software market.

Mr Allen no longer has any role in the management of the software firm but
remains Microsoft's second largest shareholder, with a multi-billion-pound stake
in the firm.

A row over hospitality was triggered earlier this week after all 25 EU
commissioners refused to answer a European parliamentary question from the
United Kingdom Independence Party MEP Nigel Farage asking for details of all
hospitality received since their nominations to the commission.

The commissioners asserted in a formal written reply that hospitality they
received from friends was a private matter, and that they alone would decide if
it might amount to a conflict of interest.

Mr Mandelson was thrust into the spotlight by inaccurate German media reports
that he had accepted a free holiday in Jamaica. His office issued a terse
statement on Monday, saying that he had taken a private side trip to the
Caribbean from Dec 30 last year until Jan 3, in advance of an official mission
to Trinidad and Guyana.

At that time, Mr Mandelson's office declined to name his hosts, or even to
discuss where he was, saying only that he had paid the additional costs of his
side trip, and that he was with "personal friends of long standing with no
relation whatsoever to his official position, his official duties, the trade
portfolio or the Commission".

Under the commission code of conduct, conflicts of interest are essentially only
triggered if a commissioner is asked to rule on a matter that touches on a firm
or business entity for which they have worked, in some professional capacity,
the chief commission spokesman, Francoise le Bail, suggested yesterday.

There is no suggestion that, even under a stricter, British-style code of
conduct, Mr Mandelson's evening aboard Mr Allen's yacht amounted to a conflict
of interest, or wrongdoing.

In a letter faxed last night, the commissioner's spokesman, Ms Veron-Reville,
wrote: "Peter Mandelson went to a New Year drinks party given by Paul Allen. He
was among more than 100 guests. He met Mr Allen but had no conversation with
him.  "Mr Allen has no day-to-day role in Microsoft - unlike Bill Gates, with
whom Peter Mandelson had an hour-long meeting in February at the commission."

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              68 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

3,500 candidates take chance

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 009

LENGTH: 146 words

MORE than 3,500 candidates will battle it out for 646 seats in the House of
Commons.

The Tories and Labour are both contesting 627 constituencies, not including
Northern Ireland, with the Liberal Democrats fighting 626. The Scottish National
Party is fielding candidates in all 59 seats in Scotland while Plaid Cymru will
fight all seats in Wales.

The UK Independence Party claims it has 497 candidates, although one -- the
Euro-MP John Whittaker -- is standing in eight constituencies.

Veritas, the new anti-EU party set up by Robert Kilroy-Silk, has announced 65
candidates, not enough to qualify for a television broadcast. But with 118
candidates, the far-Right British National Party will qualify for a broadcast.

Nominations closed on Tuesday with 3,518 candidates. Each must pay a pounds 500
deposit, forfeited if they fail to reach five per cent of the vote.

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              69 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

Voting UKIP and Veritas will take us further into federal Europe

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 027

LENGTH: 139 words

SIR - UKIP and Veritas (both of which appear to have a few, rather extremist
policies) stand for an absolute exit from Europe (report, Apr 20).

I admit to believing that "in Europe but not ruled by Europe" is the sensible
route, but can these two parties not realise that every vote they attract will
make the pro-federal Europe parties smile?

The only alternative that can form any type of Euro-sceptic government is the
Conservative Party. Every vote that does not go the Conservative way will
increase the likelihood of very pro-European integration Lib Dem or Labour
candidates winning seats. A vote for UKIP or Veritas is a vote to go deeper into
Europe because it will return Tony Blair to power with plenty of his Lib Dem
apologists in tow. Is that what these voters really want?

Philip Milton

Barnstable, Devon

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              70 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

Voting UKIP and Veritas will take us further into federal Europe

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 027

LENGTH: 67 words

SIR - The success of the economy in the past few years has been largely due to
interest rates being set by the sober men at the Bank of England.

Even the most manic of Euro evangelists must now realise that were we to join
the currency, Britain would hand over the control of interest rates to
politicians abroad, leaving us on the sidelines with our fingers crossed.

David Watt

Sydenham, Oxon

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              71 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

Voting UKIP and Veritas will take us further into federal Europe

SECTION: Features; Spy Pg. 027

LENGTH: 35 words

SIR -- Does Ferdinand Mount (Comment, Apr 20) not realise that
Blair/Howard/Kennedy cannot talk about foreign affairs because they have handed
over all British decisions to Brussels?

D. E. Nixon

Stafford

LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              72 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 21, 2005

Election 2005: Terror suspect appeals to the ballot box

BYLINE: Anne Perkins

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 547 words


A man held in Belmarsh and wanted in the United States to face terrorism charges
is standing as an election candidate, it emerged yesterday.

Babar Ahmad, a 30-year-old from south London, will only be available to voters
at his extradition hearing in Bow Street magistrates court. He denies raising
funds for terrorism.

Mr Ahmad is standing in Labour-held Brent North as a candidate of the anti-war
Peace and Progress party which was co-founded by the actress Vanessa Redgrave.

Azmat Begg, father of Moazzam, who was released this year from Guantanamo Bay
after three years' detention by the US, is also standing for the party - in the
wafer-thin Labour marginal of Birmingham Hodge Hill.

Other anti-war candidates are standing in Tony Blair's Sedgefield constituency.
He is opposed not only by the independent Reg Keys, whose son was killed in
Iraq, but the sole candidate of the Blair Must Go party.

Sedgefield is the most-contested seat with 11 candidates, including three
different anti-European challengers.

Democracy was revealed in all its variety as the final list of 3,518 candidates
from 125 political parties was published - more candidates than in any general
election except 1997, even after the number of seats in Scotland was cut by 13
because of devolution.

Among the surge of single issue parties, there is the Build Duddon and Morecambe
Bridges candidate in Barrow, the New Millennium Bean in Cardiff Central and the
Jam Wrestling candidate seeking to improve on the 0.3% share of the vote he won
last time in Kensington and Chelsea.

Dr Richard Taylor is standing again in Wyre Forest as the Kidderminster Hospital
and Health Concern candidate. But the Stuckists have come unstuck,
Fathers-4-Justice no doubt feel they have done better through direct action and
the Fancy Dress Party have found another one to go to.

Ukip is fielding 488 candidates, handsomely outnumbering Robert Kilroy-Silk's
breakaway Veritas with 62. There has been an unprecedented surge in English
nationalism - not matched by any agreement on how it should be defined. Twenty-
five candidates are standing for five different English Democratic parties.

The Greens are fighting nearly a third of the seats - 200 - where it had only
145 at the last election. George Gal loway's Respect is fielding 26 candidates.

There are more women candidates and more ethnic minority candidates than ever
before, although only if Labour's share of the vote holds up will there be more
women MPs. Its extensive use of all-women shortlists in the past year means that
it will field a total of 171 women.

Fears that the Conservatives would select more candidates called Philip than
women turned out to be exaggerated. But although they selected 106 women in
England and Wales, they only chose women to replace retiring MPs in two seats,
Chipping Barnet and Mid Bedfordshire.

The Liberal Democrats selected the most candidates from the ethnic minorities
(but only 40). Labour, which has been strongly criticised for failing to reflect
the strength of minorities in its core support, has only 32 and the Tories 39.

In Scotland, Labour's dominance will be challenged not only by the SNP but by
the Scottish Socialist party which is fielding 58 candidates.


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              73 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

ELECTION 2005: ELECTION DIARY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 417 words


Good day

Little Donald Kennedy, who is just a week old, and already more likely to be
Prime Minister than his dad Charles, according to Ladbrokes. Donald remains at
100/1, but the odds on Charles Kennedy reaching No 10 lengthened to 150/1.

Bad Day

John Prescott, who was accused of swearing at a reporter. Mr Prescott, who
mouthed 'fucking pillock' at Labour's manifesto launch, lost it after he was
asked repeatedly about the case of rebel Labour independent Peter Law, Mr
Prescott told the man from the South Wales Argus: 'Bugger off. Get on your bus,
you amateur.'

Clash of the day

Gordon Brown, whose ill-chosen bright pink tie sent the television screens
buzzing against Labour's bright purple backdrop during his campaign speech in
Hatfield.

Bad hair day

Handbags at dawn for Sandra Howard, who poked fun at Cherie Blair's hairdo in
her internet diary. 'I've heard on the grapevine that a certain other leader's
wife has booked arguably the best and certainly the priciest hairdresser in town
for the entire campaigning month; I reckon that gives me some good leverage in
getting across that my hair deserves a look-in, too'.

Scaring the babies

Michael Howard should look out. The four-year-old son of one Tory MP can't see
Mr H on the television without going into a mock horror routine with a sinister
whisper of: 'I won't hurt you, children'.

Lie detector

'It's not the job that's important,' Gordon Brown, when asked whether he
wouldn't really rather be Prime Minister.

Slogan of the day

The Monster Raving Loony Party candidate for Erewash, Mr R U Seerius, is
campaigning on the catchphrase: 'Work harder!! Millions on welfare depend on
you.'

Quote of the day

'It is heartbreaking when you work so long to get a Labour government in power
and then they turn into a Conservative one.' Jessica Haigh, 20, from Leeds, who
confronted Tony Blair yesterday.

Q&A

Q1 How many loonies are standing in the general election?

Q2: Which candidate is standing in no fewer than eight seats?

Q3: How many footsteps has John Prescott taken during the campaign?

Answers

1: You might think there are hundreds, but only 20 are standing for the Monster
Raving Loony Party. The party insists they are 'loonies not nutters'.

2: John Whittaker UKIP: MEP for the North-west. Of course he can only sit for
one seat if he wins.

3: More than 100,000 steps on the personal Prezza pedometer by Monday according
to Labour's campaign diary.

LOAD-DATE: April 23, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              74 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

Confused? You will be

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Features; Times2; 2

LENGTH: 227 words


I am very confused. First I complete The Times questionnaire on the day after
the election is called to plot my own position on the political spectrum. After
scoring maximum points both for tolerance of cannabis and intolerance of EU
regulation, I find that my views are exactly in the centre between left and
right-wing, but skewed towards the libertarian rather than authoritarian axis.

This doesn't help much. All three parties claim to be making a pitch for the
centre ground. And on many issues, such as ID cards -after an initial wobble -
and anti-terrorism measures, the Conservatives have been more libertarian than
Labour.

So I sign on to www.whoyoushouldvotefor.com and, after answering a series of
questions, am told I should vote for the Greens or, failing that, the UKIP! This
is despite my saying that I agreed with the war in Iraq and believe that
foxhunting should be legalised -both stances that the Greens strongly oppose.

I can't think how they came to their conclusions, but I shall have to ignore
them anyway. My constituency is a marginal seat, which is a straight fight
between Labour and the Tories. Voting for a minor party, even the Lib Dems,
would be a pointless indulgence.

I shall have to hold my nose and support one of the two main parties. But it
looks as if no amount of ideological mapping will help.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              75 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

John Whittaker

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Home news; 36

LENGTH: 29 words


If John Whittaker sounds familiar to voters in the North West that is because
the UKIP candidate is standing in eight constituencies. What a lot of deposits
to lose.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              76 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 21, 2005, Thursday

The battle might be lost but the unlikely revolutionary fights on

BYLINE: Alice Miles

SECTION: Home news; 35

LENGTH: 659 words


WYRE FOREST is an unlikely place to foment a revolution. Overwhelmingly white
and wealthy: seven in ten households are detached or semi-

detached, eight out of ten people declare themselves Christian and the front
page of the local paper offers Koi carp for the garden pond.

Yet at the last general election, this constituency to the southwest of
Birmingham, served up a bit of a shock. In one of the most dramatic results of
the night, it ousted the sitting MP in favour of an Independent candidate
fighting on a single issue to save the hospital in Kidderminster.

Richard Taylor, a genial, courteous, kindly gentleman doctor, became the only
Independent MP after the last general election. Dr Taylor has come to embody the
unpredictability of the modern electorate. In Tatton in 1997, Martin Bell sailed
to predictable victory as an Independent against a disgraced "sleazy" MP.

Four years later, Dr Taylor defeated an otherwise blameless Labour minister,
David Lock, whose Government happened to be closing the popular hospital to
build a new one 20 miles away.

Today Dr Taylor, 70, is fighting, under the banner "Independent Kidderminster
Hospital and Health Concern", to save his seat from the resurgent local
Conservatives. Wyre Forest has been Tory for most of the past century. Mark
Garnier, the Conservative candidate, said: "They weren't voting for Richard
Taylor at the last election, they were protesting about the hospital."

("He lives in Chepstow (an hour away)," Dr Taylor said pointedly.)

The Liberal Democrats have stood down for the second successive election and
urged their supporters to back Dr Taylor. Labour is not really in with a chance.
Its candidate, Marc Bayliss, admits to a one-in-four chance of winning, but
claims that there is a drift back towards him. Turnout, among the highest in the
country in 2001 at 68 per cent, may return to something nearer the national
average on May 5, which adds to the unpredictability.

Has the Save Kidderminster Hospital Party become the Save Richard Taylor Party?
After all, the hospital was not saved and Dr Taylor's party has lost the control
it had of the district council. "There is a certain part of me in it, yes," Dr
Taylor condeded. "A flat in London; being in a place where you can get extremely
good food in very nice restaurants. But there is a downside too: travelling to
London on those wretched trains is an absolute bind."

The Tories say that a candidate without a national party is useless to
constituents, which Dr Taylor denied. "A local person who knows local people
well without the influence of a party can represent them very well. You have the
same access to ministers, the same access to writing questions."

His manifesto spans education, crime, immigration as well as health, transport
and local tourism. His annual party conferences take place in his back garden,
where his wife, Christine, provides lunch. Whatever else he may have achieved,
Dr Taylor seems to have failed to change the real face of politics. "I have a
vision", he suddenly proclaimed.

"I have a dream that one day this nation will rise up and live out the true
meaning of its creed..."

"I have a vision of people being bused into the town to do their shopping, going
to the Railway Museum, a trip on the canal down to the rejuvenated Stourport
Docks ..."

The sun set over the Independent candidate in his back garden. This was no
Martin Luther King. If his has been a revolution, it is likely to remain a local
one. But then, Wyre Forest is a most unlikely place to foment a revolution.

* WYRE FOREST

MP: Richard Taylor since

2001

2001 RESULT:

Kidderminster Hospital and Health Concern ... ... ... 28,487

Labour ... ... ... ... . 10,857

Conservative ... ... ... . 9,350

UKIP ... ... ... ... . . 368

Majority ... ... ... ... 17,630

OTHER CANDIDATES:

Marc Bayliss (Lab); Mark

Garnier (C); Rustie Lee (UKIP)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              77 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           April 20, 2005, Wednesday

Kilroy the charmer hands out a lesson in canvassing CAMPAIGN SKETCH

BYLINE: by Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News Pg. 008

LENGTH: 683 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk arrived in Long Eaton, between Nottingham and Derby, in an
old Volvo painted in lurid shades of mauve and purple. The general belief among
the liberal London media is that Mr Kilroy-Silk is himself a lurid, not to say
tasteless and disgusting individual, who deserves to be pilloried.

But while Mr Kilroy-Silk clearly has his weaknesses, including egomania leading
to an inability to get on with colleagues, it would be wrong to allow these to
obscure his strengths. He is very good at canvassing. As he walked down a
pedestrianised shopping street he put a smile on the faces of most of those he
accosted. He knows how to charm these members of the white working class, and is
quick to sense how they are feeling. They enjoyed recognising him from his
television programme, and were amused by his banter, much of which sounds better
than it reads. Take Mr Kilroy-Silk's sally after asking for the vote of an old
man with a stick: "Don't say no while I've got the TV cameras on me. Otherwise
I'll get that stick and wrap it round your neck."

Mr Kilroy-Silk switched to a soft, insinuating, almost soppy tone: "What worries
you about this country? We've had our country stolen from us, haven't we?"

The old man corrected him: "We're giving away our country piecemeal."

Long Eaton is in the Erewash constituency, held for Labour by Liz Blackman, who
has made little impact either nationally or locally, and many Labour voters say
they are determined to vote against the party this time.

It is hard to tell who the main beneficiary will be, but none of these
discontented Labour supporters mentioned the Conservatives, who came second last
time by nearly 7,000 votes. One man said he would vote either for the Greens or
for Mr Kilroy-Silk, who since breaking with the UK Independence Party has set up
his own tiny party, Veritas. Ukip is also standing in Erewash.

Two black men asked Mr Kilroy-Silk: "What do you bring for us?" He replied:
"Straight talk. Telling the truth. End immigration."

One of the men, Bill Gonsalves, who left St Vincent in 1961, gripped Mr
Kilroy-Smith by the hand, leading the candidate to joke: "He won't let go of my
hand. Are you gay? Leave me alone. I want to go home" - the last two phrases
uttered in his little-boy voice.

Mr Gonsalves said he is distressed by "these illegal bloody wars" and added
after Mr Kilroy-Silk had left: "I enjoy watching his programmes on telly; I can
only wish him all the best. I've been voting for the Labour Party since the time
I was in St Vincent. I could never vote for them again."

He intends to vote for the Liberal Democrats, "because people like Charles
Kennedy protested against the war".

Readers who are repelled by Mr Kilroy-Silk's vulgar sentimentality and never
watch the kind of television at which he excels may find this hard to credit,
but to many members of the working class he is a glamorous figure.

A self-employed man, who voted Conservative last time, said: "He's very like the
president of America. He gets on with it. That's the kind of man we want. He's a
bit like Bush, he is. Mind you I like Tony Blair in a way. I'd get rid of
immigrants. We don't need too many people over-crowding this country."

A middle-aged woman ran out of a small shop with a look of delight on her face
and said to Mr Kilroy-Silk: "Keep going. All the best." After he had gone she
said: "I think he's fantastic. Because he tells the truth."

Asked what truth she meant, the woman replied: "The truth about immigration. I
don't want to say anything more about that."

Another man came up to Mr Kilroy-Silk and said: "I'm a fan of yours." Mr
Kilroy-Silk called out in boyish excitement: "I've found one, I've found a fan."

This playful side of him goes down well.

Mr Kilroy-Silk knows how to press the flesh. For his opponents in the political
establishment he poses something of a dilemma: they cannot be as hard-line about
immigration as he is, nor can they match his soft, ingratiating tone. Labour's
working-class support is crumbling, but it does not look like it will go to the
Conservatives.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              78 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           April 20, 2005, Wednesday

There's a big world out there - why is this election ignoring it?

BYLINE: by Ferdinand Mount

SECTION: Features; Comment Pg. 024

LENGTH: 1162 words

As a rule, my synapses do not start to fizz until around elevenses. Before nine
in the morning, areas of turbulence are still passing over my cerebral cortex.
Thus I cannot claim to be on what passes for full alert at that hour.

So it is entirely possible that, at one or other of the party election press
conferences, I may have missed some crucial reference to overseas matters. While
I was staring at Mr Blair's eerie tan, the Prime Minister may have been
launching a vigorous defence of his decision to invade Iraq. Or Michael Howard,
while I was dreaming of the first cappuccino of the day, may have been
explaining to us exactly how he would renegotiate the European fisheries policy.

But I do not think so. On the contrary, so far foreign affairs have been kept
off both parties' menus with Stalinist rigidity. It is as though their leaders
had signed some secret concordat not to mention the war, or indeed the outside
world in any shape or form.

I heard Mr Howard start off yesterday morning with a thumping denunciation of
Blair's lies: the lies about Tory spending plans, the lies about Labour's
pensions policy, the lies about the patient's passport. Terrific stuff, but was
there not one other little area of, shall we say, prime-ministerial
prevarication that earnt some notoriety not all that long ago?

With few exceptions, the media seem happy enough with this weird vacuum. They
will remorselessly quiz the politicians on almost anything else you can think
of: where the Blair tan came from, what Rupert Murdoch thinks of immigration,
the treatment of prostate cancer. But as for the world and Britain's place in
it, for the moment these seem to be no-go areas.

Which is peculiar in the extreme. Because outside the political hothouse, as far
as I can see, people talk of little else. Perhaps for the first time since 1945,
it is two foreign issues -- Iraq and the European Union -- that are foremost in
the minds of the most agitated voters at this election.

Every Leftish person I bump into is obsessed with Blair's lies in the run-up to
war. Every Rightish person is exercised by the latest excesses of Brussels and
in despair at our apparent impotence to undo them, let alone to find a stable
and enduring relationship with the EU, in or out of it. Every tobacconist and
taxi driver is liable to let rip on either front.

There are not one but two elephants in our sitting room. And the politicians are
doing their best to pretend that neither of them is there. In the American
elections, the candidates chewed over every aspect of the Iraq war. In France,
each clause of the EU constitution is being hotly contested. In the British
election campaign to date, zero public debate on either.

Canvassers and candidates will admit if pressed that these questions are indeed
"raised on the doorstep" -- a phrase often deployed with some hauteur, as though
the raising were a somewhat indelicate incident, on a par with Paula Radcliffe's
pit stop. We are, I think, expected to imagine a batty old lady in a cardigan
whimpering about the second UN resolution or a razorhead in a vest, possibly
accompanied by a pit bull, banging on about the bloody Common Market. Civilised
modern-minded people have moved on and put these little matters behind us.

But these are not little matters. On the contrary, the foreign issues in this
election are questions of high principle -- no less crucial because some of
their implications soak through to the grassroots of British life. In fact, the
voters seem to me to be taking this election more seriously than the
politicians.

Take the latest little EU idiocy. A new European directive introduced this month
redefines a bus driver on a route measuring more than 31 miles (50 kilometres to
you) as a long-distance lorry-driver. He must therefore limit his working week
and take longer breaks. Bus operators would thus have to hire more drivers to
run the same level of service, so understandably they are cutting local services
instead. Yet driving a country bus must be one of the less stressful occupations
-- certainly less stressful than brain surgery. Yet brain surgeons may still
volunteer to work up to 50 hours a week.

Such regulations are bedevilling us in all sorts of ways, large and small. They
creep up on us, unheralded and usually irreversible. To want a critical debate
on the system that spews out such stuff is not a sign of knee-jerk
anti-Europeanism. It is a sign of interest in reviving effective democratic
government.

But Blair is avoiding any such debate like the plague, because to draw attention
to Labour's pro-everything-European stance can only lose votes. Thus Labour's
manifesto promises the enthusiasts to "campaign wholeheartedly for a Yes vote"
in the referendum on the EU constitution, but they won't even campaign
half-heartedly for it now.

As for the Conservatives, their promises to get rid of the unappealing bits of
the EU's rules without having to withdraw to its periphery sound rather
unrealistic, so Howard, too, is not keen to enter into too much detail on the
subject.

In the same way, Blair talks about Iraq only when he is forced to because, every
time he does, he cannot help reminding Labour voters how far intelligence
material was exaggerated in order to allow him to stand shoulder to shoulder
with the most Right-wing American President in living memory. Yet again Howard
is not keen to make too much of all this. The Conservatives supported the war
and they have looked foolish and hypocritical every time they claim to have been
conned.

But have any of them any idea what new voters are likely to think of this
apparent gentlemen's agreement to pretend the whole thing never happened?

True, the shame of Suez did not prevent Macmillan from winning a big majority
two years later. And despite Harold Wilson's support for the Americans and the
huge anti-Vietnam demos, the issue did not figure largely in the 1970 election.

But Eden resigned in ignominy after his lie was exposed. In any case
Conservatives then were not much worried by international law. Nasser had stolen
the canal; we had a right to get it back. And Wilson had sent no troops to
Vietnam, nor had he colluded in starting the war. Today, by contrast, Blair is
still in office and there is a convenient receptacle for those who are sick of
him in the shape of the Lib Dems, who also toss in a top tax rate of 50 per cent
to lure homeless socialists.

Perhaps the strategists in the two main parties will manage to stem the tide of
defections. Fear of letting Howard in may override disgust with Blair. And Tory
promises of EU reform may deter their supporters from slipping off to UKIP.

All the same, I am sure that British politics is the poorer for these costive
calculations. For an outward-looking country like ours to go through a whole
election without mentioning the world is a disheartening prospect. We deserve
better than to be turned into one big ostrich farm.

LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              79 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 20, 2005

ePublic: Labour leads on web access

SECTION: Guardian ePublic, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 404 words


Labour may be struggling to retain the level of support it had in the last two
elections, but its appeal to one group of voters - disabled people - could get a
boost thanks to its approach to web design, writes John Lamb

Labour's website has been awarded top marks for its accessibility to disabled
people in a survey of political websites by Abilitynet, a charity that promotes
the use of IT by disabled people.

AbilityNet gave the site, www.labour.org.uk, four out of five stars for its
accessibility to those with a vision impairment, dyslexia or a physical problem
that makes mouse use difficult. The four-star rating is the highest that
AbilityNet has handed out in over two years of testing sites, including those of
banks, supermarkets, airlines and football clubs.

Testers, using a combination of manual checks by disabled users and automated
tools, evaluated the sites of 10 parties for usability and accessibility. Apart
from Labour, only the Tories and the SNP achieved the minimum three-stars
required to meet the needs of disabled people.

Disabled people, who represent one in 10 of the population, are in danger of
being left out if they cannot navigate websites properly. Plaid Cymru, Sinn
Fein, the SDLP, the UKIP, the Ulster Unionist Party and the Ulster Democratic
Union Party all fell short of basic accessibility criteria.

"Labour has done more than the minimum," says Robin Christopherson, AbilityNet's
web consultancy manager, who is blind. "The pages are clear and uncluttered, the
text is sans serif and headings and titles are properly marked and coded. Text
can be resized, apart from some words in picture form, and images are well
labelled so screen readers can pick them up."

The website also avoided adverts and features made of moving images that are
distracting for visitors with a cognitive impairment, and did not use
interactive presentations, which can present problems for visitors who cannot
use a mouse.

"For the millions of people with a disability or dyslexia considering their
electoral choices this spring, the presence of party information on-line may
fulfil a crucial role in the decision-making process," says Christopherson.

The government's Strategy Unit published a digital strategy last month that
acknowledges the evidence of a digital divide and says more should be done for
disabled people.

John Lamb is editor of Ability Magazine


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              80 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 20, 2005

ePublic: Labour leads on web access

SECTION: Guardian ePublic, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 404 words


Labour may be struggling to retain the level of support it had in the last two
elections, but its appeal to one group of voters - disabled people - could get a
boost thanks to its approach to web design, writes John Lamb

Labour's website has been awarded top marks for its accessibility to disabled
people in a survey of political websites by Abilitynet, a charity that promotes
the use of IT by disabled people.

AbilityNet gave the site, www.labour.org.uk, four out of five stars for its
accessibility to those with a vision impairment, dyslexia or a physical problem
that makes mouse use difficult. The four-star rating is the highest that
AbilityNet has handed out in over two years of testing sites, including those of
banks, supermarkets, airlines and football clubs.

Testers, using a combination of manual checks by disabled users and automated
tools, evaluated the sites of 10 parties for usability and accessibility. Apart
from Labour, only the Tories and the SNP achieved the minimum three-stars
required to meet the needs of disabled people.

Disabled people, who represent one in 10 of the population, are in danger of
being left out if they cannot navigate websites properly. Plaid Cymru, Sinn
Fein, the SDLP, the UKIP, the Ulster Unionist Party and the Ulster Democratic
Union Party all fell short of basic accessibility criteria.

"Labour has done more than the minimum," says Robin Christopherson, AbilityNet's
web consultancy manager, who is blind. "The pages are clear and uncluttered, the
text is sans serif and headings and titles are properly marked and coded. Text
can be resized, apart from some words in picture form, and images are well
labelled so screen readers can pick them up."

The website also avoided adverts and features made of moving images that are
distracting for visitors with a cognitive impairment, and did not use
interactive presentations, which can present problems for visitors who cannot
use a mouse.

"For the millions of people with a disability or dyslexia considering their
electoral choices this spring, the presence of party information on-line may
fulfil a crucial role in the decision-making process," says Christopherson.

The government's Strategy Unit published a digital strategy last month that
acknowledges the evidence of a digital divide and says more should be done for
disabled people.

John Lamb is editor of Ability Magazine


LOAD-DATE: April 21, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              81 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 20, 2005, Wednesday

Adultery problems? A handy guide for avoiding those hot-flush moments

BYLINE: Alan Coren

SECTION: Features; 17

LENGTH: 708 words


*EXCITED BY the interview in Monday's Times with H. Cameron Barnes, here from
America to promote his self-help book Affair!, thousands of you have written to
ask me whether there is similar aid for British adulterers eager to kick over
the marital traces without being found out. Alert to your every need, I have
plucked a few forbidden fruit from the Internet ...

*RUBBER BRIDGE Despite the most meticulous timing and calculations, many men,
having slipped from the nuptial sack after the wife has dropped off in
mid-headache, find they are unable to return to it from their little friend's
apartment before dawn breaks. Why not avoid those dangerous cross-town dashes by
bridging your absence with the sensational My Old Man?

My Old Man is, when inflated, a full-size husband: you simply slide out of bed,
slide My Old Man in, carefully pump him up, stick his head under your pillow,
and leave. Should you return after sun-up, your wife will notice nothing! While
she is cooking your breakfast, you can slip back covertly, deflate My Old Man in
seconds, and saunter downstairs without a care in the world. Order NOW from PO
Box 18, Tring, only £49.95 (pyjamas not included).

*CHERCHEZ LA FEMME

Hot flushes are a common female complaint, often brought on by the question:
"What did you do today, I tried to ring you?" Now you can exchange that blush
for a smug smile! Our brilliant RUN OFF MY FEET Compendium offers women a
fabulous range of watertight alibis, including two Tupperware buckets, four
plastic bags (Safeway, Liberty's, Ikea, Bergdorf Goodman), six Odeon stubs,
three dental appointment notices, two failed MoT certificates, a soiled and
numbered marathon vest, a black veil and armband, and a Cordon Bleu diploma on
genuine vellumette with your name embossed in gold!

Ring 08397 166547 for details. No salesman will call, unless you fancy a big
Greek plumber with liquid eyes and a skin like watered silk.

*DO YOU REQUIRE a full-colour set of professional photographs of your affair,
handsomely bound and mailed by us to relatives and friends? If the answer is no,
then a cheque for £1,000, popped in the post right this minute, will instantly
dissuade our crack team of paparazzi from springing out on you (or in on you) in
the small hours.

SNAP DECISIONS, 4a, Grole House, SW9 3HH.

*DIAMONDS ARE FOREVER -which could well be acutely embarrassing. What you should
be after is something that says Thank You My Darling and rots without trace as
soon as possible. For example, why not a psittacosis-riddled macaw? A mere £750,
yet it shrieks "I love you, I love you, I love you" over and over again for
several hours, before dropping dead. Or perhaps your own effigy in Neapolitan
ice-cream, decorated with erotic messages in little silver balls which fall off
into illegibility after five minutes at room temperature, only £50 (hot fudge
sauce extra)?

Don't delay, e-mail today, to syd@briefencounters.co.uk

*FULL MARKS! Nothing is more likely to rock an otherwise sensible, practical,
and numbingly boring marriage than the sudden sight, on one partner or the
other, of inexplicable bruises, carpet-burns, toothmarks, weals, or scratches.

Now you can make them explicable with a wide range of pills and ointments whose
labels clearly state that the bottles contain antidotes for snakebite, old
Turkish remedies for bubonic plague, oral anti-tetanus vaccine for barbed wire
wounds, etc. The contents vary from cold cream to Smarties, and start at only
£7.95 from Placebo Domingo Ltd, Suitcase 9, Oxford Street, W1.

*NEED A FULL-LENGTH VIDEO of a major Hong Kong sales conference so ineptly shot,
wrongly focused, wobbly, and under-exposed as to render all human figures
unrecognisable?

Should you require this incontrovertible proof that your spouse was utterly out
of order in suspecting you of actually being shacked up in the Bide-a-Wee Motel,
Galashiels, during those eight days, we should be delighted to supply it under
plain cover to your nominated post restante. Also available: Desert Rats
Reunion, Geneva Motor Show, Highland Games, UKIP Seminar, Solo Transatlantic
Yacht Race and many more. From £250.

WRITE:Who? Me? Films, 8 Pondicherry Crescent, Uxbridge.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              82 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 20, 2005, Wednesday

Record as nominations close

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 30

LENGTH: 252 words


Nominations for all candidates in the election closed last night, with one man
registering in eight different constituencies. It is expected that this year
will be a record year for independent candidates and alternative and
single-issue parties.

John Whittaker, an MEP for the UK Independence Party, has registered as the UKIP
candidate in eight seats across the North West.

This is legal under Electoral Commission rules but, if elected, he would have to
choose a seat to represent. Dr Whittaker said that he was trying to prove a
point about the need for reform of the electoral system, as well as bumping up
the number of seats in which people can vote for the party.

"It's one way of flagging up the concerns we have about the shortcomings of the
electoral system," Dr Whittaker said.

The total number of seats being contested nationally by the UKIP stands at
around 480, excluding Dr Whittaker's extra ones.

Judith Kilshaw, the woman at the centre of an international baby adoption row,
will fight the North Wales seat of Alyn and Deeside.

Martin Bell and Richard Taylor, two MPs who shook the Westminster party system
as independents, have given their backing to a new group, called the Independent
Network intended to support such challenges to the coming general election. It
is backing candidates such as Reg Keys, father of a military policeman killed in
Iraq, who is planning to stand against Tony Blair.

The full list of candidates will appear in The Times Online.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              83 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 19, 2005, Tuesday

CAMPAIGN DIARY 2005

BYLINE: By Ben Fenton

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 008

LENGTH: 311 words

The truth will set you free

A website called Who Should You Vote For invites websurfers to state their
position on 23 issues and by comparing those answers with party manifestoes
tells them which party is most in tune with their beliefs.

It also asks them which party they think is closest to their views.

More than a quarter of a million people have done so already and here are the
results so far:

Party the user expected: Labour 21% Conservative 20% Lib Dem 37% UKIP 2% Green
6% NONE GIVEN 14% Actual party suggested:

Labour 4% Conservative 9% LibDem 58% UKIP 12% Green 17%

This tells us two things. One, old definitions of left and right are now
officially redundant. Two, Lib Dem supporters are the people who most need to
get off their computer stools and get a life.

50-year-itch "I can't abide them any more" - Agony aunt Claire Rayner who has
voted Labour for 50 years, announcing she has abandoned them for the Lib Dems.

No peerage "I could not vote for a Labour party with Tony Blair as its leader."
- Greg Dyke, former BBC director general, saying he would be voting Liberal
Democrat.

The truth will set you free (again) "I'll be honest with you - I don't know the
answer," Simon Hughes, Lib Dems' president, when asked on BBC Radio 4's Election
Call about the impact of local income tax on second homes.

Cold waters "We fought against Nazi injustice for five years and here we are,
still fighting against injustice, but this time it's Geoff Hoon." - Eddie
Grenfell, 85, announcing decision to run against the Defence Secretary as
protest against refusal to give a campaign medal to Arctic Convoy veterans like
Mr Grenfell.

Hope springs eternal "The Conservative Party has shown this afternoon that its
faltering campaign has moved into a new phase, from cynical opportunism to total
desperation." - Labour party spokesman.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              84 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 19, 2005, Tuesday

Mandelson caught in privacy row over holiday before EC trip

BYLINE: By David Rennie in Brussels

SECTION: News; International Pg. 012

LENGTH: 448 words

PETER Mandelson was at the centre of a row about secrecy in Brussels last night
after he declined to say who hosted a private New Year's break in the Caribbean
he took on the back of an official trip to the region.

The European Trade Commissioner, who is visiting Mali this week, would not name
the old friends who enabled him to enjoy the five-day holiday at an undisclosed
Caribbean location out of respect for their privacy, his office said.

His spokesman said only that they were "personal friends of long standing" with
no connection to his official status, duties, trade portfolio or the Commission.

They were also at pains to state that the side trip, lasting from Dec 30 to Jan
3, had not imposed any extra costs on EU taxpayers, who paid for Mr Mandelson to
visit Trinidad and Guyana from Jan 4 until Jan 6 this year to discuss sugar,
bananas and other issues.

Mr Mandelson's holiday plans were unexpectedly thrust into the spotlight by a
row over open government when the 25 commissioners closed ranks and refused to
answer a question about hospitality in a parliamentary question tabled by Nigel
Farage, the Ukip MEP.

Commissioners are obliged to report all gifts valued at more than 350 euros (
pounds 250). But in a sweeping rejection of transparency, the 25 Commissioners
asserted that "insofar as it falls outside the exercise of normal duties, the
receipt of hospitality is a normal fact of private life".

Hospitality was covered by the right to privacy, said FranGoise le Bail, the
spokesman of the Commission president, Jose Manuel Barroso. There was "a
complete difference" between a present or gift from someone a commissioner did
not know personally, and hospitality from old friends.

The British Parliamentary Register of Members' Interests does not make that
distinction, reserving a category for "Gifts, Benefits and Hospitality",
received by a member or their spouse, that "in any way relate to membership of
the House".

The focus on Mr Mandelson was something of an accident, Ukip sources said. Mr
Farage was actually working on a tip-off that Mr Barroso, last year received a
free holiday from Spiros Latsis, the billionaire Greek banker and shipping
magnate.

Mr Barroso confirmed that he had been a guest of Mr Latsis last August but felt
that there was no conflict of interest as he was an old friend from university.

Mr Barroso then asked each commissioner to consider hospitality they had
received. After duly examining their consciences, all 25 were happy to report
that they were in the clear.

Mr Farage denounced the Commission's decision to police itself for conflicts of
interest. "This proves there is no accountability," he said.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              85 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 19, 2005, Tuesday

Saving for a pension doesn't pay

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 021

LENGTH: 57 words

SIR -- We OAPs would much prefer an increase in the basic state pension of
pounds 25 a week and the halving of council tax. Impossible? It can be done --
by withdrawing from the European Union and saving the pounds 30 million a day we
pay to Brussels. This is in the manifesto of the UK Independence Party.

E. J. Huxley

Thorpe, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              86 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 19, 2005

MANDELSON IN NEW PROBE OVER LUXURY TRIP TO CARIBBEAN

BYLINE: By Kirsty Walker Political Correspondent

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 10

LENGTH: 579 words


TONY Blair's arch-crony Peter Mandelson was at the centre of a fresh political
storm yesterday, this time over a trip to the Caribbean paid for by taxpayers.

Twice-disgraced Mr Mandelson was facing tough questions over a luxury holiday he
spent in Trinidad and Guyana at the turn of the year.

Mr Mandelson, who is now an EU Commissioner, has admitted that he tagged a
four-day break on to the front of a business trip but his officials have refused
to disclose how Mr Mandelson paid for the trip, where he stayed and with whom he
spent the holiday.

The disclosure is likely to cause deep embarrassment for Mr Blair at the height
of the election campaign.

Last year, the Prime Minister ignored a chorus of opposition from his own
Cabinet when he appointed Mr Mandelson to the sought-after post of EU
Commissioner.

He is the only man in modern political history to have been sacked twice from
the same Cabinet.

The decision caused widespread fury as Mr Mandelson is entitled to a salary and
perks of up to £1million over five years.

The latest row over his holiday came as a further 25 EU commissioners were
quizzed in Brussels about their overseas travel arrangements.

Yesterday, UK Independence Party Euro MP Nigel Farage said it was a "disgrace"
that the commissioners were refusing to publicise details of their trips.

He said: "How dare they believe they can refuse to be open and transparent about
such issues?

"We have a right to know whether those who give commissioners hospitality are
themselves involved in a business relationship with the Commission. I will be
pursuing this matter."

Conservative MP Graham Brady, the shadow Europe minister, said: "Mr Mandelson
has an important job to do.

He should make sure he can get on with it by being absolutely open and honest
about his dealings.

"Given his past record, he must know he needs to be above suspicion."

Mr Mandelson, who is currently on a working trip to Mali, added a four-day
holiday in the Caribbean islands on to the working trip for trade talks in
January.

His spokeswoman refused to answer detailed questions about the trip but insisted
Mr Mandelson had played "within the rules".

She said: "Mr Mandelson plays by the rules. He ensures those rules are applied
very strictly."

She added that, if any extra costs had been incurred above the proper cost of Mr
Mandelson's Caribbean trip, he would have paid them himself.

The EU Commission President Jose Manuel Barroso was also in the firing line
after it emerged he had spent a lavish freebie holiday with billionaire shipping
tycoon Spiros Latsis.

Mr Barroso's spokeswoman insisted that details of the holiday should remain
"private" as the two men have a long-standing friendship from their university
days.

She said: "Commissioners are entitled to their privacy just like anyone else, as
long as there is no conflict of interest with their official functions.

"Holidays are part of their private lives and nobody can take away the right to
their private life."

Mr Mandelson was first forced to resign as Trade and Industry Secretary in
December 1999 after it emerged he had secretly borrowed £373,000 from Labour
minister and tycoon Geoffrey Robinson to help him buy a lavish London flat.

Then, after being brought back into the Cabinet as Northern Ireland Secretary,
Mr Mandelson was forced to quit over the application for British passports by
two Indian billionaires.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              87 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 19, 2005

A SNORING THEORY REACHES ITS CLIMAX

BYLINE: David Robson

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 758 words


YOU know how quickly men fall asleep after sex? Of course you do. Well,
according to some survey or other, they fall asleep more quickly in Birmingham
than anywhere else in the country. On average it takes them only three or four
minutes. In Glasgow and Liverpool, by contrast, men stay awake for 20 minutes.
The researchers fail to come up with an explanation but I should have thought
the reason was obvious - infinitely more women in Glasgow and Liverpool can
sustain a decent conversation about football - and what else is there to talk
about? In fact Glasgow and Liverpool are the sort of soccer-mad places where, if
a woman can't talk football, she may never get any sex at all. For millions of
males, sex - even with their long-term beloved - is often a "score 'n' snore"
sort of thing.

But, according to the people who have organised the National Stop Snoring Week,
which began yesterday, snoring is the enemy of sex.

According to them, snoring comes between couples, undermines their love life and
emotional closeness and even drives them into separate beds and separate rooms.
Well they would say that, wouldn't they - they are a single-issue pressure
group. This week is also National Doughnut Week and I have no doubt that they
claim that lack of doughnuts has a devastating effect on your sex life.

Actually, they could be right, but what would you think if the Greens campaigned
on a "no recycling no nookie" ticket and Ukip on "would you ever sleep with
someone who loved the euro"?

At 10.15am yesterday Professor Raj Persaud (who has something to say about
everything) gave National Stop Snoring Week "an insight into just how fragile
our relationships really are, particularly when snoring is an issue." Had I been
invited, I would have given them the benefit of my own insights on the matter.

In particular, I would have introduced them to my new discovery - "The Snorgasm"
- and I shall be further elucidating my theory in a forthcoming book The
Schmysteries Of The Snorgasm. Male behaviour is often misinterpreted to their
disadvantage and this is such a case. The Snorgasm is the moment of true male
fulfilment, when sexual climax and sleep come at precisely the same moment, an
Everest of Ecstasy elusive even in Birmingham.

The Snorgasm is easily misconstrued. Even National Stop Snoring Week would have
to admit that the sounds of male climax and male snoring are more or less
indistinguishable.

Who is to know, even when a man seems in a state of unconsciousness, that he is
not actually at the apogee of love, the ultimate double whammy?

THIS Stop Snoring campaign is lunacy. Certainly some men do snore, some women,
too, but it is largely a masculine pastime. National Stop Snoring Week suggests
that British sex lives are suffering because women are kept awake by their
partner's snoring and are too tired to get intimate or too ratty to feel
affection. I am not a sleep scientist myself - I am simply the discoverer of The
Snorgasm and hence a potential Nobel prizewinner - but, I assure you, if you
believe their guff you'd believe anything. There are many things that can force
couples apart. Loss of affection, mutual contempt, disputes about who has the
remote control. Doubtless the Chest Hair Abolition Society would cite
over-hirsuteness as the culprit.

But I believe that mutual affection conquers all - bad breath, lack of flossing,
sharp toenails. As the Bard wrote in Sonnet 116: "Let me to the marriage of true
minds/Admit no impediments."

He added nothing about snoring.

IN ANY case, what are iPods for, and earmuffs or those rather fetching hairnets
that could easily accommodate cotton-wool earplugs?

Half the population spend most of their day blocking their ears against ambient
noise. Why stop in the bedroom?

The old arguments in favour of premarital sex were always deeply suspect -
especially the one about trying it first to make sure you're compatible.

Couples these days are no more compatible than they were in the days when girls
entered marriage straight from their virginal bed in their mother's house.
Anyway, as we know, sex peters out pretty soon in most relationships.

On the other hand, there is very good reason to check out audio discord. If the
man's breath has to be gossamerlight to allow the woman to sleep, it is as well
for her to know that it doesn't sound like Mallard breaking the steam locomotive
speed record. As for the man, why would he want to shack up with a woman who
can't appreciate the schmiracle of the Snorgasm?

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              88 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 19, 2005

Mandelson denies Caribbean trip was at expense of public

BYLINE: David Gow in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 10

LENGTH: 439 words


Peter Mandelson, the EU trade commissioner and former Labour cabinet minister,
last night denied accusations that he had enjoyed a new year trip to the
Caribbean at the taxpayer's expense.

Friends of Mr Mandelson, who was forced twice to resign from the cabinet,
insisted that he had stuck rigidly to the code of conduct governing
commissioners' activities and had stayed with friends unconnected to his
portfolio.

But officials were unable to say where and with whom Mr Mandelson had stayed, or
to silence criticism that the commission's register of interests was an
inadequate instrument of transparency and account ability. Mr Mandelson, still a
close confidant of Tony Blair, had faced fresh questions about his role when it
emerged that he spent four days privately, somewhere in the Caribbean, before
official meetings with regional ministers in Guyana between January 4 and 6.

Nigel Farage, MEP for the UK Independence party, had posed questions to all 25
commissioners about hospitality received, including holidays.

Mr Farage was told that Jose Manuel Barroso, the president of the European
commission, had spent a cruising holiday with his wife last August on a yacht
belonging to the Swiss-based shipping and banking tycoon Spiros Latsis, a
long-standing friend, who is also the son of John Latsis, one of the
Conservative party's biggest donors in the 1990s.

Mr Farage said: "I'm writing a hand-delivered letter to Mr Mandelson demanding
answers about who he stayed with and what their interests are, whether they have
any interests in bauxite, sugar, bananas or any other commercial activities
touching on his portfolio. Mr Barroso's response is totally unacceptable. He
accepted this hospitality from Mr Latsis and there's been a mass of shipping and
ports legislation through the European parliament in the last few months.

"If it's all as innocent as he says . . . then why did he take so long to
respond to my questions? We know the biggest companies most directly affected by
EU laws are very close to this commission."

But Mr Mandelson's aides said his friends in the Caribbean had no commercial
links with any of his portfolio interests or his official visit. The trip, they
said, had strictly observed EU rules, with flights to and from the official
destination paid by the commission and any extras paid by Mr Mandelson.

Mr Barroso's spokeswoman said: "Commissioners are entitled to see friends as
long as there's no conflict of interest between (that) and official functions."

MEPs last week decided to refuse any public audit of their generous allowances
and expenses .


LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              89 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 19, 2005, Tuesday

'Hello, I'm your MP. Actually no, I'm your candidate. Gosh'

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: Home news; 23

LENGTH: 1018 words


Tailing the Tory candidate Boris Johnson is like becoming trapped in a novel by
P.G. Wodehouse, writes Ben Macintyre

"What ho, Boris," I said.

"What ho," said Boris cheerily, running one hand through his hair to achieve
that trademark just-woke-up-in-a-haystack look.

"How's tricks then?"

"Spiffing. Jolly good, actually. Good, good, good, good, good. Good. We're doing
a spot of canvassing."

"Yes, mind if I lurk in the background?"

"Heavens no. Lurk away. Got to be done."

It is impossible, when tailing Boris Johnson -Conservative incumbent for Henley,
television personality, novelist, Spectator Editor, former Shadow Arts Minister
subplot character in the Kimberly Quinn-David Blunkett imbroglio -to escape the
impression that one has become trapped in a P. G. Wodehouse novel. Boris was on
his best Bertie Wooster form yesterday, surrounded by an air of calculated
vagueness, chaotic hilarity and canny, halfdisguised ambition.

On the outskirts of Henley we entered a small enclave of council houses, where
Charlie Spires was standing on a ladder, cleaning his caravan with a toothbrush.

"You're cleaning your caravan with a toothbrush," Boris said brightly.

Mr Spires, a man with enormous white sideburns, eyed Boris as if he had landed
from another planet. "Will you be voting Conservative?" wondered Boris.

"No way, Jacko," said Mr Spires.

"Right-ho," said Boris. "Jolly good. Carry on toothbrushing."

As we departed Boris observed to nobody in particular: "I think that went VERY
well." Then he started humming (Is This the Way to) Amarillo. Then he did some
knee bends. "Bumf, I've run out of bumf. Bring more bumf." An aide brought more
leaflets.

Everyone knows Boris. Even the voters who don't exactly know who he is know that
they have seen him somewhere. Many, when they see his distinctive crumpled,
tousled form on the doorstep, simply start laughing.

Henley is granite Tory territory but Boris Johnson has a popular following here
that goes beyond politics, to a far more powerful and important factor in
British life: celebrity.

"We're great fans of yours," a woman shouted from her car. (When did you last
hear anyone say that to a Tory or, indeed, any candidate?) Harriet Wynn Jones
stopped her Volvo to climb out and tell the flaxen-haired one: "I'm voting for
you, not the Conservatives. You seem like an individual."

"Great. Good-oh. Fantastic. Would you like some bumf?"

But do not be fooled. Behind the jokes and the bumbling, Boris is plotting his
comeback. Sacked for supposedly failing to come clean about an adulterous
affair, he is plainly awaiting the call to return to the front line. When asked
the question directly, he shimmied away.

"They were very nice to me. But obviously I can't do anything at the moment. Oh
look, there's a Porsche. And a pigeon. Okey cokey."

I tried again. "Are you missing life on the front bench?" He paused, and there
was a flicker of seriousness. "I am, a bit, actually." Then we are off again.
"Box hedges here. Sure sign of Lib Dems."

Similarly, his eyes narrowed when we approached, crab-wise, what Bertie Wooster
would have called "Boris's spot of girl trouble". For those who have forgotten,
Boris was found to have been jolly friendly with someone called Barbarella, or
Salmonella, or something like that, who wasn't absolutely 100 per cent his wife.

"Are you going to see Blunkett, the Opera?" I asked. (Boris and Violoncella are
central characters in this forthcoming extravaganza, which tells the story of
sexual shenanigans at The Spectator.) "The whole thing fills me with horror
really," Boris said. "I need more bumf.

That's a big dog. Onwards and upwards."

Boris is a delight to go campaigning with: irreverent, unpredictable and
bursting with self-irony. All qualities that endear him to the voters and
terrify the party leadership. He simply cannot resist finding the funny side.

By lunchtime we were in Shiplake College, the Henley public school where Boris
was to address sixth-formers. Surrounded by boys in creased suits with fluff on
their collars and exotic, ill-contained haircuts, the Tory candidate blended in
perfectly; indeed, the surroundings seemed to accentuate his schoolboyishness:
"Ah, sandwiches. We will fall on them like Harpies."

He went down a storm. Not because his young listeners were
Tories-bred-in-the-bone, but because nobody plays the anti-politician better
than Boris, while remaining political to the core. Whatever happens in this
election, the Tories must know that he is a huge, if unpredictable, party asset.
I suspect Boris knows it too.

If yesterday was a Wodehousian performance of "What ho, Boris", the sequel is
undoubtedly "Boris in the Offing".

BORIS'S BONS MOTS

Here is a small selection of Boris's bons mots delivered yesterday.

* On siestas:

"Terrible outbreak of afternoon kipping in Henley. Always in their dressing
gowns, hard at it."

* On the Labour Party:

"It's time they were ejected into outer space."

* On Michael Howard: "Howard is a dynamic performer on many levels. There you
are.

He sent me to Liverpool. Marvellous place. Howard was the most effective Home
Secretary since Peel. Hang on, was Peel Home Secretary?"

* On himself:

"Hello, I'm your MP.

Actually I'm not. I'm your candidate. Gosh."

* On drugs:

"I can't remember what my line is on drugs.

What's my line on drugs?"

* On editing The Spectator during an election:

"Not a problem, really.

There are only five or six feature pieces a week.

I did it remotely last time."

* On Classics:

"There is no finer subject.

I say that without prejudice to other subjects, which you can basically read in
your bath."

HENLEY

2001 RESULT:

Conservative............20,466

Liberal Democrat........12,008

Labour...................9,367

UKIP.....................1,413

Green....................1,147

Majority:................8,458

OTHER CANDIDATES:

Kaleem Saeed (Labour); David Turner (Lib Dem); Delphine Gray-Fisk (UKIP); Mark
Stevenson (Green)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              90 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 18, 2005

Blue Joan

BYLINE: RICHARD KAY

SECTION: ED_1ST_04; Pg. 35

LENGTH: 95 words


SEVENTEEN days till the polls open and the bandwagon is scarcely moving for the
UK Independence Party. Already without its only recognisable candidate,
perma-tanned ex-chatshow host Robert Kilroy-Silk, it has suffered another
setback.

Party pinup and 'patron' Joan Collins has finally come clean about her voting
intentions - and she won't be supporting UKIP. 'I will be voting Conservative
because I think the Labour Party just doesn't care about the British people,'
she declares on The Spectator magazine website.'I would never dream of voting
for UKIP.'

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              91 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 18, 2005, Monday

CAMPAIGN DIARY 2005

BYLINE: By Ben Fenton

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 011

LENGTH: 232 words

Who lives longest?

Women of Britain, join the ranks of Conservative candidates at your peril!
According to a survey by an internet magazine, female Tory MPs have a life
expectancy of only 64, 16 years fewer than women in general and 15 years fewer
than Labour's women members.

Men would do best to avoid Tony Blair's parliamentary party because it cuts
their life expectancy to 67, compared with a national average of 75, while Tory
MPs struggle on to 71.

Pugnitas

News from the Veritas campaign front line seems always to feature violence
directed towards its leader by Midlanders.

Last week, Robert Kilroy-Silk was on the receiving end of a tirade of expletives
in Nottingham. Yesterday it was a water bottle over the head in Derbyshire.

A man detained after the former Ukip, former TV presenter and former Labour MP
was clunked on the bonce outside a supermarket in Long Eaton was released with a
formal caution.

Not saying much "He's the most human of the party leaders" -- Lord Rennard, the
Lib Dem chairman, on Charles Kennedy.

Choked "Mr Blair has his hand around the neck of the Labour Party and I am
afraid he is not going to let go until he hears the death rattle" -- George
Galloway.

Well-schooled "I think I am married to an extremely trustworthy, painfully
honest man, as he never forgets to let me know" -- Sandra Howard, wife of the
Conservative leader.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              92 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 18, 2005

AT LAST, A MANIFESTO THAT'S A JOY TO READ

BYLINE: Sir John Nott

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 25

LENGTH: 602 words


I HAVE been a detached observer of politics for 50 years and an active
participant for 17 years in Parliament but until last week I had never read a
political manifesto. They are normally a turgid list of promises, written for
the next day's newspapers and political analysts; I doubt if more than one per
cent of the electorate have ever read a manifesto, which goes to show their good
sense.

Last week I broke my long established habit and read the Conservative Party
manifesto for the first time. I found it admirable, short, concise and dedicated
to a few key issues without waffle, self praise and carping at the other side.
Who is responsible for this new departure I don't know but everyone speaks very
well of Lynton Crosby, the new Australian supremo at Tory HQ.

The Tory (sorry Conservative) campaign is going well and I still hold out the
hope, which I wrote about in my column on December 17 last year, that we could
wind up with a hung Parliament. And even if the Conservatives fail to obtain a
majority there is every prospect of a more balanced Parliament where the key
issues can be properly scrutinised and debated instead of everything being
decided by presidential decree.

Apparently we are not being promised a president this time round but a sort of
joined-up Siamese twin:

part Blair, part Brown. The body will be Blair, the brain Brown, or Red, as the
case may be. Enough has been experienced and said of Brown's grim
Presbyterian-style socialism for me to fear him more than Blair. When I saw the
politburo lined up on stage to launch the Labour manifesto last Wednesday I
thought that Brown would make an admirable general secretary of the Labour Party
of the Socialist People's Republic of Great Britain.

A FRIEND of mine said to me the other day that there are no Big Issues in
politics any more. The country is relatively prosperous;

people have no real belief that politics affect their lives very much. It's true
that whether or not a prime minister can take this country to war against the
instincts of the vast majority of its citizens is a Big Issue - and people will
wreak their revenge at the ballot box as a result.

The other Big Issue is Europe.

At last, the Conservatives have had the courage (and damn the Tory Europhiles of
my generation, now mostly buried in the House of Lords) to come out straight
against the Euro, the European Constitution and Euro-Army. We owe the end of
ambiguity on Europe to the rude shock administered to the political parties by
Ukip in the European elections - they will achieve nothing in the general
election but they have served a useful purpose.

There are important issues, like crime, immigration, the filthy state of some of
our hospitals and pensions.

Each of them deserve debate but the Big Issues of the post-war world, socialism
versus capitalism, poverty and the distribution of wealth may be still with us
but in a muted way.

I remember the 1979 election when state collectivism versus market economics was
a Big Issue. Markets won under Thatcher and the country has grown more
prosperous ever since.

So what is left is impressions of people and astonishment at some of the
stupidity that we read about. In the first category, I place the patronising
Ruth Kelly, the Education Secretary, and the stubble-prone Charles Clarke. In
the latter, the sheer inadequacy of our chief constables as demonstrated last
week by the story that speeding down the Thames Valley motorway merits five
points, catching a burglar or racist gains an award of 10 points.

Ah well, politics have changed.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              93 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 18, 2005

Leading article: Our French connection: Britain and Europe

SECTION: Guardian Leader Pages, Pg. 19

LENGTH: 648 words


The maintenance of almost total political silence so far on the European issue
in the 2005 general election is anything but accidental as far as the parties
are concerned. Indeed Labour's decision to hold a referendum on the EU
constitution was partly made with this very end in mind; the 2005 election would
be difficult enough, its strategists figured, without giving Europhobic tabloids
the chance to hijack the contest over the referendum issue on behalf of the
Tories. Yet the Conservatives themselves have been consenting partners in
helping to keep Europe on the sidelines too; the last thing the Tories want is
for the voters to be reminded of how easily their party can devour itself over
Britain's relationship with the EU. Even the Liberal Democrats have played along
with the collective omerta; the pragmatist in Charles Kennedy knows there are
too many votes at stake in Lib Dem-Tory marginals for his party to parade its
European views too prominently. No doubt Labour and the Lib Dems would like to
see some wind in the UK Independence party's sails to keep the Tories on the
defensive; but winds can be changeable, so all three parties seem to have
concluded that the European issue is best kept in its box until after polling
day.

Yesterday, however, the foreign secretary and his opposition counterparts were
drawn on to the subject when they appeared on the Jonathan Dimbleby Programme on
ITV1. And a refreshing change of the election political menu it turned out to
be. By admitting that a no vote in the French referendum on the EU constitution
on May 29 might mean the death of the UK's own referendum, Jack Straw was in one
sense doing no more than restate the obvious, since the treaty on the
constitution is null and void if any one of the 25 member states fails to ratify
it. But Mr Straw's commendable frankness is a reminder of the seriousness of the
events that are swelling on the other side of the Channel, where a no vote now
looks ever more likely, and also a reminder of how this country's political
arguments are so often conducted inside a bubble of denial and insouciance where
European issues are concerned.

A French no vote may be just six weeks away. If it happens it would have major
political implications in all directions: for the wider international
institutions in which Europe seeks a larger role, for the EU itself, for France,
for the other member states - and for this country too. Exactly what shape those
implications might take would largely depend on the precise result on May 29, as
well as on the Dutch referendum three days later. But it is hard to see how the
constitutional project in its current form could survive anything other than a
very narrow no in a single member state (the precedent established by Ireland's
first no to the Nice treaty), and not even that if the state in question is as
important to the EU as France. A no vote in a second country - a distinct
possibility in the Czech Republic, for instance - would make the British
referendum pointless.

It is good that Europe has been raised, albeit marginally, in our election.
Unfortunately, too much UK discussion about the French referendum focuses only
on its tactical implications for our domestic politics - whether it is good or
bad for the UK parties, its effects on the Blair-Brown saga, and so on. The
assumption underpinning much of this talk is that a French no vote would
actually be pretty convenient for Britain. It is not too late to insist that
this is not so. The British people should want the French people to vote yes. A
yes vote in France, like a yes vote elsewhere, would hasten the looser, more
flexible, more modern Europe that the British people, and most other Europeans,
actually support. A French no would not be the end of the world, but a French
yes would help to advance the Europe that we - and they - both need.


LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              94 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 18, 2005, Monday

THE GREEN ISSUE: THE MONDAY INTERVIEW: DARREN JOHNSON 'GREEN PARTY SPOKESMAN -
THERE ARE TWO MYTHS ABOUT US: WE'RE A SINGLE-ISSUE PARTY AND A WASTED VOTE'

BYLINE: BY MARIE WOOLF

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 27

LENGTH: 1466 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Darren Johnson of the Green Party started work serving burgers and chips, but he
is now committed to healthy eating ANDY PARADISE


Darren Johnson was in a dead-end job serving chips in Hull when he decided to
join the Green Party. He visited an environmental fair on a day off and, by
chance, picked up the party's manifesto. Eighteen years on, he is the Greens'
most recognisable public figure, but Mr Johnson is still concerned with chip
fat. As one of two Green members of the London Assembly, he is behind a plan to
turn greasy chip-oil from London's takeaways into biodiesel to power
eco-friendly mopeds and cars.

'Chip fat being poured down the drain by certain unscrupulous fast-food outlets
can be a huge problem,' he says. 'It causes pollution and if it goes into rivers
it can kill swans because they can't cope with that level of oil. I have never
poured chip fat down the drain in my catering career, definitely not.'

Mr Johnson readily admits his early career as a catering assistant was not
illustrious. 'I can't cook and I have very little interest in food,' he says.

Perhaps it was all those burgers and chip butties he served, but he is now a
keen proponent of healthy grub. As the only Green member of Lewisham Council he
convinced it to go fair trade and he is pushing for national targets for
converting farms to organic. Like an eco-charged Jamie Oliver, the former Green
candidate for London mayor wants to scrap junk-food school menus and serve
healthy organic food.

'It should all be organic it should be locally produced as far as possible,' he
says. 'It should be fresh and there should be vegetarian and vegan options for
everyone who wants it.'

At his home in south London, where Mr Johnson lives with his partner Dean, a VAT
inspector, and his ginger cat Mallaig (named after the Scottish fishing port),
the menu is strictly organic. 'If you looked round our house you wouldn't think
it was some eco-warrior fanatic's den,' he says. 'We just blend it in to
everyday lives. I would like to get green energy in there though.'

They may want to convert chip fat and human sewage into fuel for cars, but the
Greens at this election are keen to dispel the myth that they are not grown up
enough for Westminster and are solely obsessed with the environment. There are
scores of councillors, two MEPs, two members (including Darren) of the London
Assembly and an amiable elderly Green peer. This time, the party is fielding
more parliamentary candidates than ever in London and they hope Brighton
Pavilion will become their first Westminster seat.

Mr Johnson, who is standing in one of the party's top target seats of Lewisham
Deptford, says people see the party's candidates, including Keith Taylor who is
after the Brighton seat as 'together people' more than capable of proving
influential at Westminster. 'One of the stereotypes is that Greens can never get
elected so it's a wasted vote, so you completely demolish that myth by getting
elected,' he says. 'The other myth is that we are a single issue party, but
people round here have seen the Greens being very highly organised and effective
and practical.'

Mr Johnson is to keen on dispelling stereotypes of his own, one being that Green
candidates are latter-day hippies who want to force everyone in Britain to eat
tofu. He may have once dressed up as Ivan the Terrible and driven into an arms
fair in a limousine with blacked-out windows in a protest, but Mr Johnson does
not conform to the typical green stereotype.

For a start, he is not a vegetarian and instead of sandals and hand-woven hemp
socks, he wears sensible city shoes. He also wears a suit (a green one) and a
tie (a green one.)

But it is not only his clean-cut countenance that is slightly out of keeping
with the image of the party. The London Assembly member is uncomfortable with
the party's Euroscepticism and says he will not campaign alongside UKIP and
right-wing Tories for a no-vote in on the EU constitution. 'There is a danger
that we have come across at times as a load of rabid Europhobes,' he says. 'And
I certainly will not be sharing any campaigns with UKIP or Robert Kilroy-Silk.

'I am a passionate about Europe. One of the first motions I proposed as a Green
Party member was to reverse our position about withdrawal from the EU which was
our policy in the 1980s. It was my motion that changed the party's position in
favour of reforming the EU from within.'

Mr Johnson seems slightly uncomfortable with the tag of being the 'respectable
face of the Green Party. And, with embarrassment, he admits he may be the only
member of the Greens never to have smoked a joint. 'I am probably among the few
Greens that haven't,' he says. 'I have just never been tempted. I am not some
total health freak but an avowed non-smoker. I just don't like tobacco, and
cannabis is smoked with tobacco.'

His abstemious attitude, is not strictly in keeping with the Green party ethos
of course. The Greens think cannabis use should be legalised and heroin and
cocaine to be struck off as criminal offences. The party's spokesman on drugs
was jailed after his private collection of marijuana plants, grown as a
statement of principle, was discovered by the police in Brixton.

Yet a glance through the Green Party's manifesto reveals no mention of the
policy of decriminalising heroin and cocaine use. There are pages on
renationalising the railways and scrapping nuclear power and raising taxes for
everyone earning over pounds 50,000. There is one paltry line which says
drug-taking should be 'a health rather than a crime issue'.

Could it be that the Greens, are so keen to look electable they are trying to
shove their more inflammatory polices under a hand-loomed natural fibre rug?

Mr Johnson denies this. 'We are certainly not hiding our drugs policy but it is
important to have a very focused message for this campaign,' he says. 'It is
still absolutely the policy.'

At the Assembly, Mr Johnson was for a time Ken Livingstone's environmental
adviser, a post he quit after the Mayor did not live up to his commitments. Mr
Johnson says he feared he was being used as a 'Green fig-leaf' by the Mayor.

As he is speaking, the interview is interrupted by noisy Greens on bicycles. One
fellow sits on the floor cross-legged, in what looks suspiciously like a lotus
position. A bearded former Labour councillor ambles over for a long conversation
with the candidate mid-interview. He is one of the many former Labour supporters
who are backing the Greens instead of Tony Blair. The Green policy blueprint is
pitched much at appealing to disaffected Labour voters like him.

In fact it looks surprisingly like Labour's 1983 Labour manifesto, famously
dubbed 'the longest suicide note in history'. Mr Johnson says: 'There are a lot
of similarities with Labour's 1983 manifesto. But Labour's 1983 manifesto was
absolutely hopeless when it came to sustainability.

'I find that people who have left the Labour Party and have come to the Greens
don't just want rail nationalisation, they embrace the environmental agenda as
well.'

The manifesto includes radical ideas such as a carbon tax and closing nuclear
power stations. But Mr Johnson, who is one of the more 'together' Greens, seems
rather flummoxed when it comes to costing his programme, including the flagship
policy of taking the railways back into public ownership.

'I don't off the top of my head have the full details of renationalising the
railways but it is something that has go to be done,' he says. 'Many of the key
spending commitments in the manifesto are in terms of a long- term overhaul. You
can't cost that. But the specific initiatives that we are proposing in the early
stages have been costed.'

He says proposed cuts in defence spending, and scrapping nuclear weapons, ID
cards and road-building will bring in 'significant savings', adding: 'We have
this commitment to increase corporation tax for the large companies, increase
income tax for the higher earners.'

It may not be a costed programme but the Green manifesto contains 'the essential
themes if we are going to move towards a greener future', he says. 'We are not
presenting a line by line budget in this election. We are not going to be
forming the next government. We are not even standing in enough seats.'

The CV

n Born: 1966, Southport, Lancashire

n Educated: Goldsmiths College, University of London

n Career: Worked in fast-food industry then in 1987 became member of the Green
Party after the Chernobyl nuclear disaster

1988: Accounts clerk, British Transport Advertising, London

2000: Became London

Assembly member

2001: Green Party candidate in Lewisham, Deptford in the general election

2002: Became a Lewisham councillor

2004: The Green Party's candidate for Mayor Of London

2005: Standing as Green Party candidate for Lewisham

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              95 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 18, 2005

UKIP

SECTION: THE WHIP; OPINION

LENGTH: 59 words


NO one has ever accused UKIP, the party that embraced Robert Kilroy-Silk until
it found his teeth in its neck, of deep thinking. So it is no surprise that in
addressing law and order in his campaign literature, Winchester candidate Dr
David Abbott informs voters: "UKIP believes criminals are the cause of crime."
Too elementary, my dear doctor.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              96 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 18, 2005

ON MAY 5 YOU CAN DECIDE WHO WILL RUN BRITAIN. JOIN UP WITH THE STARS
AND..ROCKTHE VOTE UK

BYLINE: Trevor Kavanagh, Political Editor

SECTION: SUN CAMPAIGN

LENGTH: 658 words


IN January the world watched in awe as eight million Iraqis braved terrorist
slaughter to take part in the country's first general election for a lifetime.

In some parts of the ravaged country, turnout was a staggering 90 per cent.

Women in tears were determined to have their first-ever say in the greatest
event in the democratic calendar. Yet in Britain on May 5, millions will stay
home and watch EastEnders or go to the pub rather than decide how -and by whom
-their nation is governed.

Today The Sun is launching a Rock The Vote campaign to get our readers and every
other able-bodied person out on the big day to say who they want in Parliament.

Our drive, which mirrors a similar US initiative supported by star Joss Stone,
is backed by a host of celebrities including rock's Justin Hawkins and Noel
Gallagher, soccer's Sir Alex Ferguson and athletics' Dame Kelly Holmes.

You can pledge your support by visiting The Sun's website at www.thesun.co.uk
and clicking the links.

In 1989, millions celebrated the fall of the Berlin Wall and the collapse of
Communism because it gave THEM the chance to vote for the first time in 70
years, But here next month, many will not bother to get off their bums and put a
cross on the ballot paper.

Power

We want to change that and help restore power to the people.

Voting is a privilege our forefathers literally fought and died for. For women
it is a hard-won privilege denied to their great-grandmothers a few decades ago.

Yet polls show that only one in four under-25s will definitely turn out on
polling day to choose who will represent them in Parliament for the next four or
five years.

Only a slightly larger proportion of those under 35 are determined to use the
ballot paper.

Only those over 65, who have lived through war and remember when they could not
take their daily bread for granted, are certain to make their vote count.

Voters can pick from a rainbow of parties with red rosettes for Labour, blue for
the Tories, green and yellow for the Lib Dems.

There will also be a Green Party, the anti-European UKIP, the barking BNP and
George Galloway's unrespectable Respect.

Yet Grey Power may end up deciding the election result -simply because they are
determined to vote one way or another.

The decline in electoral participation has been rapid in recent years. In the
aftermath of World War II, when people were grateful for their freedom, three in
four voters (75 per cent) turned out.The percentage has plunged to just 59 per
cent. That was the lowest turnout since this country became a full democracy,
with the extension of the franchise to women.

All major parties fear apathy will drive the total still lower on May 5.

Tony Blair last night backed The Sun's Rock the Vote campaign.

"The vote is a very precious thing," he said. "It's easy for people to be
cynical.

Easy, but wrong.

"On May 5 every single voter has the same power in their hands. They should use
it."

Lib Dem leader Charles Kennedy said: "Don't just yell at the TV. Whoever gets in
will have the right to spend your taxes. If you want a say, you have to vote."

Tory chief Michael Howard said: "If people want to change the way things are,
then they can. People have a choice at elections and their votes matter."

Oasis rocker Noel Gallagher vowed to make his voice heard. He said: "I'll be
voting."

Darkness frontman Justin Hawkins, said: "It is essential people get out and
vote."

Actress turned pop star Jennifer Ellison said: "Everyone should get out and have
their say."

Celebity Wrestling babe Michelle Heaton said: "If you care about our country you
have to vote."

Man Utd chief Sir Alex said: "If you believe in something, you have to keep
fighting for it."

And Olympic star Dame Kelly said: "If you want a say in what happens you must
vote."

The Sun Says -Page Eight

JOIN ROCK THE VOTE AT www.the-sun.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              97 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 18, 2005, Monday

A strange case of espionage and warfare inside the commuter belt

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Home news; 28

LENGTH: 689 words


REPORTER AT YOUR BECK AND CALL

The first indication that it was not all spring blossom and harmony in the
commuter belt came when the Guildford Liberal Democrats suspected that I might
be a spy.

I rang them to say that a couple of readers had suggested that I pop down and
that I would like to go out canvassing with the candidate. "What's your name?"
said a wary apparatchik. I told her, but she wanted my Editor's name and
telephone number.

"Why don't you Google me?" I suggested brightly. Eventually she found an article
from The Times that I had written and reluctantly agreed that I was bona fide.
She explained that they had had problems with a so-called freelance journalist
ringing up and asking for their candidate's whereabouts. Hardly able to contain
my excitement at the prospect of picking up secret intelligence from the highest
echelons of Guildford Liberal Democrats, I scrambled on to the first train.

Guildford, including the town centre and outlying villages, is one of the most
marginal seats. In 1997, when all sorts of other improbable places were lost by
the Tories, it remained true blue, just like the rest of Surrey. But in 2001 the
unthinkable happened and Sue Doughty took the seat for the Liberal Democrats by
just 538 votes.

The three main parties all have women candidates. Anne Milton, the Tory hopeful,
said that it was careless of the Tories to have lost the seat. I found her
canvassing an area of tidy, modern brick homes with blooming gardens and BMWs in
the drives. "It's war here," she said by way of greeting. Residents were eagerly
putting up her posters. "You've called in the middle of the rugger," one
middle-aged man said. "Of course you have my vote. Thank you."

One of the big issues Mrs Milton, a nurse with four children, is pushing is
home-building. "Most people feel there is a limit to the number of houses
Guildford can take," she said. She deplored the cramming of houses into the city
and blamed the Government Office for the South East, which decides how many
houses must be built in the region. She thinks that the Tory plan to scrap
regional quangos and hand greater planning control to councils is a vote winner.

Ms Doughty pointed out that it was the Conservative-run county council that had
decided that almost 5,000 homes should be built in or around Guildford. Mrs
Milton's point was that the poor council has its hands tied by the regional
body.

I wondered if voters found this as confusing as I did.

On a council estate Ms Doughty, who refers to herself as the Surrey One,
lingered for an age with voters complaining about antisocial behaviour, plans
for a casino and potholes. She gunned for Mrs Milton over a Tory leaflet quoting
an anonymous person complaining that asylum-seekers get houses before local
people. "It is just not true," Ms Doughty said. "If you want to lead a community
you have a responsibility to tell the truth."

Mrs Milton said: "If you can't bring up an important issue like this, you stop
talking about everything."

A blogger has been having great fun outing party activists who are featured on
Mrs Milton's leaflets as local people. "Politicians have to be very careful in
this day and age," she said and muttered opaquely that it was possible to use a
photograph inadvertently. "I'm not going to talk about this blogger. He's an
angry young man."

Ms Doughty levelled an even more extraordinary charge at her rival. "She's not
local, she's from Reigate," she said, as if the Conservative candidate hailed
from Tierra del Fuego. The battle for Guildford is shaping up to be tremendous
fun.

If your constituency is worth a closer look please e-mail
damian.whitworth@thetimes.co.uk

GUILDFORD

MP: Sue Doughty since 2001

2001 RESULT:

Lib Dem...............20,358

Conservative..........19,820

Labour.................6,558

Majority.................538

OTHER CANDIDATES:

Anne Milton (C); Karen Landles (Labour); Martin Haslam (UKIP); John Morris
(Pacifist)

* Guildford became the first Surrey constituency to elect a non-Conservative MP
for 40 years at the last election


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              98 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             April 17, 2005, Sunday

SPECIAL REPORT: ROVER CLOSURE - 'WHAT HAPPENED TO ALL THAT MONEY?';
  LONGBRIDGE A FORTNIGHT AGO THEY WERE DOING OVERTIME. NOW THEY READ

BYLINE: BY ANDREW JOHNSON IN LONGBRIDGE

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 4

LENGTH: 875 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Members of the Austin Federation line up examples of the cars produced during
Longbridge's history yesterday, as Gail and Bob Miles, laid off after 37 years,
protest against the factory's closure in Birmingham city centre ANDREW FOX


It doesn't matter how long the illness; the end when it comes is still a shock.
Such was the case in Longbridge yesterday, where few people were surprised that
the last giant of the British car manufacturing industry had finally succumbed
to a lingering sickness. But many were still devastated.

They were angry, too, that it was allowed to decay, and angry that the
management sold off parts of the business and took out large sums of money.
Words such as 'betrayal" and 'stabbed in the back" were on many lips.

'It's a shock," says Mark Shaw, 33, a welder at Longbridge for 15 years and who
lives in a nice row of semi-detached houses just behind the plant. 'In one week
we've lost our jobs. We were doing overtime two weeks ago. My anger is directed
at Phoenix. They've walked out with their pockets bulging and we've walked out
with nothing. I have a daughter of five and a four-month-old baby and I don't
know what's going to happen.

'I want to know what happened to all the money " BMW left half a billion when
they pulled out. We've done everything asked. We worked overtime seven days a
week. What else could we do?"

Bob Miles, 53, who has worked at Longbridge for 37 years as a seat fitter,
shares this view. On Friday he went to the job centre for the first time in his
life. There were tears welling in his eyes when he tried to describe how
depressing he found the experience. 'There were 100 people in there," he said.
'I've supported the system for 37 years, now it's time for the system to support
me. In the Seventies we were all to blame but we've been model employees in the
last five years. We were the most hardworking workforce in the country."

But more pressing in the short-term is money, especially with rumours flying
that there will be nothing for 12 weeks. 'I'm scared," said Bob's wife, Gail,
52, a practice manager. 'I don't know what we're going to do. We've only got my
wage now and that's already gone. The workforce needs counselling and support. I
work in a doctors' surgery and can see we're going to be the only people who'll
be busy dealing with stress. I had to leave early myself on Friday."

In nine days it will be exactly 99 years since the first Austin rolled off the
production line. Eighty years later they were still using some of the same
machinery according to Peter Lowe, 82. He was a Longbridge worker for 48 years
until he retired in the Eighties and one of many former workers who yesterday
gathered at the factory's main gate to say goodbye.

Everyone is able to diagnose Longbridge's problem: a lack of investment. 'Only
the Japanese put money in when they fitted the factory with robots in the
1980s," says Robert Pattison, 49, who has worked there for 29 years.

The main entrance is presentable enough but a walk around the back and sides of
the 200-acre site tells its own story. It is surrounded by derelict buildings
that were long ago hived off and behind the rusty railings are broken windows,
potholed, patched and cracked tarmac and an air of decay. It looks, one
bystander says, like a scrapyard.

The office buildings, some with cracks in the brick walls, date from the 1950s.
There is nothing modern about it, except for thousands of unsold cars, corralled
in a huge car park and the odd one inside the front gate that have an air of
abandonment about them.

At the local newsagents Sally and Roger Page say that the plant only really
supplies 5-10 per cent of their business. 'It's not like the old days when they
came in on foot," says Mrs Page, 58. 'Now they live all over and come in in
cars. So I don't think it will affect our business too much. We'll have to wait
and see. The main thing now is the gloom. People are very down. They are
depressed and uncertain. It's been a long and gradual decline but we didn't
believe it would happen."

It is a similar story across the road at the florist, the owner of which is not
concerned about loss of business. Sally Powell, 45, said: 'I blame the
Government. They should have put money in a lot earlier. I wouldn't vote for
Blair or Michael Howard." Her daughter chips in: 'Vote Ukip or BNP. Keep it
British."

Interestingly, the workers clear Gordon Brown and Tony Blair and blame Phoenix
squarely.

Yesterday afternoon the Austin Federation of owners clubs gathered outside the
factory gates. They had planned a meeting to mark the centenary of the factory's
founding this year. They were to meet in one of the office buildings. Instead,
they adjourned down the road to St John the Baptist. There the priest, Colin
Corke, one of the factory's two chaplains, has offered them the church hall. 'We
usually do half a day a week in the factory," he says. 'This last week we've
spent half a day in the parish."

Peter Thomas, the other factory chaplain and vicar of St Stephen's (two parishes
slice the factory in two), sums up the importance of Longbridge. He said: 'There
is a different feeling in this factory. We've been in other factories but none
have had the friendliness. People chose to stay here five years ago. They wanted
to make a go of it. There is a sense of bereavement now. Bereavement for the
money, yes, but also bereavement for the fellowship."

Business, front page

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              99 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                         Independent on Sunday (London)

                             April 17, 2005, Sunday

05.05.05 ELECTION SPECIAL: QUOTES

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 14

LENGTH: 48 words


'There is no Rover equivalent for the tasks my Mercedes performs' George
Galloway

'He came, he saw, he failed to conquer and has gone' Nigel Farage, Ukip MEP, on
Robert Kilroy-Silk

'He couldn't deliver a pizza' Labour MP Oona King on her rival, George Galloway

of Respect

LOAD-DATE: April 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              100 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 April 17, 2005

BLACK DOG

SECTION: M; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 484 words


Why Maggie may not back Howard Rachel casts a shadow over the Tory campaign What
a flipping cheek!

MARGARET THATCHER will offer little help to Michael Howard in the Election.

She rejected his personal plea to tell Tory voters not to back the UK
Independence Party in last year's Euro elections.

'He wanted her to attack them in public and she was not prepared to do so,' said
a spokesman for Lady T.

Why? 'She sympathises with many of their views.' AMBITIOUS Lib Dem Treasury
spokesman Vince Cable knifed Charles Kennedy after the party leader got his sums
in a mess at his manifesto launch.

Dr Cable, who has a PhD in international economics, mocked his 'duff answers'
and sniffed: 'Let's draw a veil over the launch.' HEALTH Secretary John Reid,
said to be 'gagging' to replace Foreign Secretary Jack Straw, showed his
diplomatic flair when Bill Clinton addressed the Labour conference in 2002.

Starstruck Reid dragged on his fag and told a pal: 'Now I know what a woman
feels like when she's been given a good seeing-to.' Howard's campaign HQ have
long moaned that his feisty right-hand girl, Rachel Whetstone, looks down on
them.

Whetstone's new beau, shavenheaded Tory advertising guru Steve Hilton, knows how
they feel. He is nearly a foot shorter than she is.

IRAQ war rebel, retiring Labour MP Brian Sedgemore, has vented one last
bucketful of spleen at the Prime Minister, saying: 'Tony Blair is no stranger to
falsehoods. No sane person with any sense of moral balance could vote for him.'
No Labour peerage for Sledgemore, I fancy.

TORY candidate in Teignbridge, Devon, Stanley Johnson, father of Boris, was
praised for running in the Newton Abbot Shrove Tuesday pancake race when he
visited an old folk's home. 'You were very good,' said one lady resident.

'Are you a practised tosser?' GREAT YARMOUTH Lib Dem candidate Stephen Newton's
Election approach makes laid-back Charles Kennedy look like a whirl of activity.
Newton is on a two-week Costa del Sol holiday and not due back until two days
before polling day.

JAZZ-LOVING Ken Clarke says Cambridge contemporary Michael Howard was always
tuned in to the pop world. 'I went to his room one day and he was playing
Please, Please Me. He said, "You must listen. It's a new group called the
Beatles.'' I laughed and said it was a ridiculous name.' STAND by for the final
dumbing-down of the House of Lords. Tony Blair plans revenge on the Upper House
for rebelling against his anti-terror laws with peerages for 40 deadbeat
ex-Labour MPs. Time to replace ermine with whippet pelts.

EX-MIRROR editor Piers Morgan protested when his Merc was clamped after he put
Pounds 7 in a meter outside a London TV studio. He had no idea you have to
display the ticket it dispenses. 'When I was an editor I never had to do
this...I've always been driven,' he spluttered. He had to pay a Pounds 150 fine.

LOAD-DATE: April 19, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              101 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            Mail on Sunday (London)

                                 April 17, 2005

Reid's MRSA beginning to maths are bug me...

BYLINE: HARRY BLACKWOOD

SECTION: 3RD_NE; Pg. 36

LENGTH: 1123 words


HEALTH Secretary John Reid was remarkably upbeat last week when he addressed a
conference looking into MRSA in our hospitals.

Dr Reid (not a doctor of medicine, by the way) told the Clean Hospitals Summit
that it was possible to beat the superbug. He may not be a medical man but he
certainly has a way with words and figures.

He conveniently used the statistics for London as an example of how the
Government was tackling the problem and pointed out a 20 per cent fall in
infection rates in the capital in the past three years.

What the Health Secretary failed to say is that incidents of MRSA in hospitals
in the North East during the same period have risen by almost 15 per cent the
biggest increase in the UK. Whether you are lying in a hospital bed in London or
in Newcastle, the reason you face the risk of getting worse instead of better is
exactly the same our hospitals are filthy and Labour has done precious little
about it in the eight years it has been running the NHS.

Sheila Morgan, who is in charge of infection control at the Newcastle Upon Tyne
Hospitals Trust, suggests that the rise is down to patients coming to the North
East from other parts of the country.

Excuse the pun, but that just doesn't wash. All hospitals have patients
transferred from elsewhere and there is no earthly reason why the North East
should have been unduly affected.

The dirty state of our hospitals is, of course, all down to money. Labour may
have poured billions into the NHS to pay for administrators and senior managers
but it has neglected the basics.

In the good old days, wards were kept spick and span by cleaners who were
employed by the hospital and very often had responsibility for a single ward.

Now, thanks to competitive tendering and cost-cutting, the cleaning of the
North's hospitals is done by firms who win tenders not on the quality of their
work but on the price they have submitted.

If the North's hospital trusts are serious about tackling MRSA, there's a simple
solution: get rid of some of the Pounds 50,000a-year penpushers and employ a few
more cleaners.

FOLLOWING the recent less-than successful visit of Labour Housing Minister Keith
'nobody's heard of him' Hill to the North East, we had another high-profile
visitor last week. Health Minister Rosie Winterton was in Durham City. Heard of
her? No? Thought not.

Pounds 3m leaves Ant and Dec's rivals green with envy

GEORDIE duo Ant and Dec can't put a foot wrong when it comes to TV success.

Their production company, Gallowgate, came up with the idea of a celebrity golf
show that would see stars from the United States take on celebrities from Europe
in a Ryder Cup-style event.

As the lads have an exclusive Pounds 5million deal with ITV, they offered the
show to their bosses ... who, for reasons best known to themselves, turned it
down.

No worries, the lads headed off to Sky, which bought the show for a cool Pounds
3million.

Their 'golden handcuffs' contract with ITV means Ant and Dec won't be able to
present Celebrity Cup and mingle with the host of stars, including Catherine
Zeta-Jones, left, Sylvester Stallone and Hugh Grant.

I don't suppose they're bothered in the slightest.

They can watch it at home while counting their three million.

Free time teachers don't want

UNDER Labour's Workforce Remodelling Agreement, teachers will get ten per cent
of their time out of class to prepare lessons. So we'll need more teachers then?
Not quite.

Unions claim falling pupil numbers and underfunding will actually mean 150
teaching jobs could go in the North East.

They'll get 100 per cent time out of class.

What's that about 'education, education, education'?

THE nation was shocked when TV chef Jamie Oliver used a school in County Durham
to illustrate how badly we feed our youngsters.

It embarrassed the Government into coughing up more money for school dinners,
but the well meaning Jamie has unleashed a monster the food Gestapo.

Already a number of schools across the region have announced that they will be
taking junk food off the menu.

Now, Newcastle's Freeman Hospital has fallen foul of the junk food hysteria
after it was revealed that sick children are being fed chicken nuggets, sausage
rolls, fish fingers and pizzas. Horror of horrors, they are even giving them
Turkey Twizzlers.

The outcry was such that you'd have thought the hospital was force-feeding them
cyanide.

This is all in danger of going a bit too far.

What next? Food police?

A REGULAR correspondent from Low Fell has written to tell me how disillusioned
he is with New Labour.

He's had enough and has torn up his membership card. What's more, he's joined
UKIP.

Good Lord. I knew things were bad in Labour ranks but I didn't know they were
that bad.

This permit policy is just rubbish

THE days when street cleaners kept the highways and byways tidy have long gone.

You are more likely to see a bobby on the beat than spot anyone picking up
litter, which is why much of the North East is like a rubbish tip.

Things will get even worse, thanks to a short-sighted decision by Durham County
Council.

Faced with the problem of builders using council-run domestic tips to dispose of
commercial waste, they've decided to ban all vans and trailers from using the
tips unless the owners have a permit. But before you load up your trailer and
head off for the dump you'll have to apply to the council for a permit, which
will be sent in the post and will last for only 14 days.

You could, of course, just dump your rubbish by the roadside.

And that's precisely what many will do.

Can Bowie sing in the right Keys?

UNLESS the Conservatives and Lib Dems come to their senses and withdraw from the
fight, antiwar campaigner Reg Keys has an impossible task to defeat Tony Blair
in Sedgefield.

All may not be lost, though.

Keys is being backed by musician Brian Eno, who is said to be bankrolling the
campaign and is prepared to enlist the help of friends in the business to raise
his candidate's profile.

It should be interesting.

Word has it that U2 and David Bowie could throw their weight behind the
campaign. Anything that puts Blair under pressure is music to my ears.

THE Hadrian's Wall long-distance trail opened two years ago in a blaze of
publicity.

It's been a huge success, with 400,000 walkers tramping along the 84-mile route.
Conservationists are now claiming that the trail is too popular and reckon the
effects of all those boots could cause the wall to fall down.

Presumably they didn't realise that a tourist trail across some of the most
beautiful scenery in Britain would actually attract people.

LOAD-DATE: April 27, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              102 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 17, 2005, Sunday

As Sir Humphrey might say, Kennedy is being very brave

BYLINE: Michael Portillo

SECTION: Features; News; 17

LENGTH: 1387 words


'We have a spring in our step," claimed the near-comatose Charles Kennedy at his
party's press conference last week. Then, while trying to answer a simple
question, he fell flat on his face, metaphorically at least. Even those
sympathetic to the Liberal Democrats described their manifesto launch as a car
wreck.

I feel sorry for Kennedy. He and I entered parliament at about the same time and
we used to have an occasional drink together. I soon discovered his sense of
fun.

Later, with his quick wit, he kept his footing on television game shows that
made fools of less agile performers. His media sideline brought him attention
and propelled him to the leadership of his party. He has never looked happy
since.

Some people find life in an opposition party stress-free. Sir Menzies Campbell,
the Liberal Democrats' foreign affairs spokesman, enjoys the luxury of opining
without having to implement. In every interview he roams the world's political
horizons with avuncular ease.

For others, opposition politics brings unremitting anxiety. Certainly opposing
is more stressful than governing. Each day is a struggle for credibility
(something that governments automatically enjoy). Because opposition parties
have few researchers, whereas the government can call on the entire civil
service, launching an attack or an initiative always feels like walking across
thin ice.

That tension tightens the muscles in Kennedy's face.

The Commons further frays the Liberal Democrat leader's fragile nerves. When
Kennedy asks the prime minister a question 90% of MPs are predisposed to jeer.

When he rises to make a set-piece speech on, say, the budget the chamber empties
like a bath, except more noisily. He has rarely succeeded in rising to the big
occasion.

Not much goes right for Kennedy. His misery has manifested itself at various
times in smoking, drinking and gaining weight. Bucking that trend, his son's
birth was both a personal joy and a political coup. But even that will now be
linked to the less happy memory of Thursday's shambles at the media conference.

Kennedy has remained popular by comparison with the other party leaders. It
helps that he has never held office, since public opinion of both Tony Blair and
Michael Howard is coloured by decisions they made when faced with the realities
of office.

Kennedy is still remembered as a good sport from his quiz show days. Anyway, a
man who will not be prime minister is judged differently from one who is or one
who just might be.

To his credit Kennedy led his party to a reasonably good result in 2001. The
Liberal Democrats gained six seats and their share of the poll rose 1.5%. By
contrast Paddy Ashdown, Kennedy's predecessor, had managed to reduce the party's
support in 1997.

His failure was masked because the Liberal Democrats nonetheless more than
doubled their representation in the Commons. Ashdown's reputation was saved by
the distortions of an electoral system that he had spent his career denouncing.

Neither the Liberal Democrats nor the Tories should be proud of their
performance since the last election. While opinion poll graphs show that Labour
has paid dearly in lost support for going to war in Iraq, the opposition parties
have done only slightly better than flatline during the last parliament. Kennedy
may take heart because his party usually does better than polls suggest. But
even so the party now scores about 20%, which is well behind the 25% achieved in
1983 by the alliance of Liberals and Social Democrats (which incidentally won
only 23 seats compared with 52 Liberal Democrats in 2001).

The party should be able to gain seats again this time. It is good at holding
onto even its most improbable by-election gains, and skilful at concentrating
resources on new targets. There are many disgruntled Labour voters who may go
for the Liberal Democrats this time. Ironically some of the victims of the
Labour slump will be Tories with narrow majorities over Liberal Democrats.

Kennedy's task during the last parliament was clear. Voters had to believe that
the Liberal Democrats would in time replace the Conservatives as the main party
of opposition. He has not succeeded. Perhaps he has lacked the gravitas
necessary to pull it off. But the Tories' timely substitution of Howard for Iain
Duncan Smith also helped to thwart the plan.

The Tories' worst nightmare was that they would make almost no gains at this
coming election while the Liberal Democrats made at least some, as happened in
2001. Extrapolating that trend, it would have been easy to argue that the
Conservatives' days were numbered. With the small improvement in the Tories'
recent poll ratings that scenario now looks less likely.

The Conservatives have been saved by the numbskull UK Independence party. Had it
made Robert Kilroy-Silk (whose face is better known to daytime television
viewers than Blair's) its leader, it might have stolen large numbers of
Conservative votes.

One day a bust may stand in Tory Central Office to commemorate the party's
saviour, Roger Knapman. He is, in case you do not know, the UKIP leader (and
former Tory MP) who refused to step aside for Kilroy.

Even if the Liberal Democrats now have little prospect of becoming, in the words
of their election slogan, "the real alternative" their manifesto does score
points for being distinctive.

Replacing council tax with local income tax is the only way to give local
authorities more autonomy (provided they are allowed to raise much more than
they now collect in council tax). National taxes could then be reduced. Of
course better-off people would pay more in local income tax than they pay now.
But that is because the present system takes money from people such as
pensioners who cannot afford it.

Local income tax is the sort of policy that Yes, Minister's Sir Humphrey would
call "brave". It is anathema to the middle classes and to judge from last week's
press conference the Liberal Democrats' plans are being noticed this time. At
last Tory candidates have some solid knocking copy to use against Kennedy's
party.

Some other Liberal Democrat policies are less courageous but they mark the party
out and deserve serious scrutiny. The party opposes identity cards, which both
Labour and the Tories support. If you care more about civil liberties than
anything else, Kennedy should get your vote.

The proposal to tax those with incomes over £100,000 at a rate of 50% has an
approval rating of 66%. It enables the party to propose free care for the
elderly and the abolition of student fees, both of which are popular policies.

The Liberal Democrats' opposition to the war provides the clearest demarcation
between them and the two main parties. Their position may now look opportunist
given that they have the majority on their side. But when they adopted it they
took a risk.

There were times (for example, when Baghdad fell) when more people supported the
war than opposed it. For all that, there is little sign the party is reaping
much reward for its stance. In reality, despite the huge public demonstrations
against it, few people regard the war as their No1 issue, particularly two years
after the invasion.

Even if Kennedy blundered last week he has given the public at least four good
reasons to vote for his party: to make the rich pay more tax, to oppose identity
cards, to abolish the council tax and to protest against the war.

This time the Liberal Democrats stand for something and their programme is
radical. It sounds like what the Labour party ought to be saying. Yet there is
something in it for Tory voters too. They will not like the tax changes but
plenty will applaud the proposals on care for the elderly and university fees.

It reflects well on Kennedy that his policies are taken more seriously than
before and that the media think it worthwhile to rough him up.

Still, his nervous temperament makes him ill at ease with presidential-style
politics. He knows he will be judged on whether he delivers more seats, which
depends on idiosyncrasies in the electoral system beyond his control. Between
now and polling day it will not be only young Donald Kennedy that gives his
father sleepless nights.

michael.portillo@sunday-times.co.uk

Owen Humphrey


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Comment; Opinion

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              103 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 17, 2005, Sunday

It's not just Europe that bothers Godfrey's colleagues

BYLINE: Roland White

SECTION: Features; News; 17

LENGTH: 68 words


It's not just Europe that bothers Godfrey's colleagues: they're also concerned
about eduka ... edjuka ... education. "Too many young people leave school
without basic standards of literacy," says the party manifesto. And some of
these young people obviously go on to work for UKIP. Some versions of the
manifesto carry the word "Forword" in large letters over what is presumably the
foreword.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Atticus

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              104 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 16, 2005, Saturday

CAMPAIGN SKETCH Cranks and gadflies are Tories' lost tribe

BYLINE: by Andrew Gimson

SECTION: News Pg. 010

LENGTH: 546 words

YOU can tell a lot about a man by his necktie. This is especially true of a
jaunty chap like Nigel Farage, who yesterday wore a tie decorated with white
flies and what looked like the starter handles for getting old-fashioned cars
going.

A clue: Mr Farage was helping to launch the election manifesto for the UK
Independence Party.

But the Ukip symbol incorporates a pound sterling sign, not an insect and a
starter handle, so to penetrate the symbolism of Mr Farage's tie one needs to
remember that Michael Howard last summer tried to dismiss Ukip as "cranks and
gadflies". Within minutes of that ill-chosen jibe, Mr Farage had responded by
setting up the Cranks and Gadflies Club.

Mr Farage told this column: "It was going to be the Gadflies Club but we added
the Cranks to show how inclusive we are." The club meets once a month for dinner
in Strasbourg, where Mr Farage is one of the party's MEPs.

The point that immediately strikes one about Ukip is that its members are not
cranks and gadflies, or no more so than the members of other parties. They are
the kind of dowdy, decent, patriotic people who used to be the backbone of the
Tory party. They are the lost Tory tribe without whom the Conservatives will
find it hard to become again the natural party of government.

Roger Knapman, Ukip's leader, who used to be a Tory MP, says in the foreword to
the manifesto: "None of us in Ukip see ourselves as politicians." This is
exactly the way in which shire Tories used to regard their work for the party.
It was a form of voluntary service which generally had nothing to do with
ideology or party politics and could barely be distinguished from holding a
whist drive or a coffee morning for the benefit of the local cottage hospital.

This sociable conservatism rested on the confident belief that the Tories would
always put the national interest above any partisan advantage. You could be
patriotic, unpolitical and Tory all at the same time.

The rise of the European Union has wrecked that comfortable position. As Mr
Knapman put it in his foreword: "Our members are people from all backgrounds who
feel deeply what the majority of British people feel -- that it is not right to
have our country run by institutions across the Channel. We are not
anti-European; we just believe the best people to run Britain are the British."

The modesty, politeness and sincerity of this formula, and of Mr Knapman
himself, convey something of the essence of Middle England.

Mr Knapman is not a brilliant, glamorous or photogenic figure: he is a tubby,
obstinate, middle-aged Englishman who believes that the authority for governing
Britain should be restored to Westminster.

The press asked if Ukip regrets the loss of Robert Kilroy-Silk, the former TV
presenter who resigned in a huff after failing to become party leader. Mr Farage
held up his hands and said with a laugh: "I recruited him to Ukip . . . He was
very good for us for a period of two or three weeks . . . He came, he saw, he
failed to conquer and he's gone."

It is surely to Ukip's credit that it refused to allow itself to be taken over
by an egomaniac like Mr Kilroy-Silk. The existence of the party is a reminder
that the Conservatives have yet to find a way of dealing with the European
problem.

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              105 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 16, 2005, Saturday

Blame welfare addicts for voter apathy

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor Pg. 027

LENGTH: 33 words

SIR -- If Tom Utley wants lower taxes and smaller government, along with concern
about the EU constitution as an election issue, why doesn't he support UKIP?

Robert McWhirter

Guildford, Surrey

LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              106 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 16, 2005

Election: 2005: Ukip accentuates the negative: Promise of no more immigration,
EU or Kilroy

BYLINE: Oliver Burkeman

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 422 words


The UK Independence party launched its 2005 manifesto in London yesterday on a
platform of negatives.

No more immigration! No more meddling from EU bureaucrats! And - just on the
offchance that you can't get behind those two - no more Robert Kilroy-Silk!

"We want our country back," the document demanded, setting out Ukip's plans for
leaving the EU, zero net immigration, leaving the EU, leaving the EU some more,
and also the reform of something called the national heath service.

With Mr Kilroy-Silk as their figurehead, Ukip received 15% of the vote in last
year's European elections. But they are polling only a tiny proportion of that
now, and fought to put a positive spin on his departure. "He came, he saw, he
failed to conquer, and he has gone," the MEP Nigel Farage said.

It's not quite accurate to say that Ukip hates Europe: they just wish it knew
its place as a provider of luxury lifestyle accessories. "They will still want
to sell us their wine and cars," the manifesto explains, reassuringly. "And I'm
married to a German girl!" Mr Farage cried, as if that proved everything.

It was a thin portfolio. But that, the Ukip leader Roger Knapman argued, was
because Brussels made 70% of our laws, so what would be the point? (The other
30%, presumably, are laws relating to heaths.)

"This is the only practical - indeed, the only possible - manifesto you've heard
this week," he declared in an atrium at Millbank.

Newcomers to the country, Mr Knapman announced, would face "Britishness tests",
but he seemed unable to define Britishness.

If people failed the test, he said, they would have to take it over and over,
presumably un til they became bitter but decided they probably shouldn't
grumble, at which point they would have achieved an exemplary British mindset.

The words pride and self-respect recur in the manifesto. You the voter, the
party seeks to imply, are being played for a fool. Tony Blair is laughing.
Asylum seekers are laughing. EU bureaucrats are laughing, wiping tears of mirth
from their trendy rectangular glasses. And nobody likes being laughed at.

But what of Ukip's vision for Britain? Judging by the manifesto photos, everyone
will smile. Almost everyone will be white. The sun will shine over a country
lane, and an old man will share a joke with a nurse. A policeman will give
directions to a good-looking couple. Also, there will be a tractor.

And it doesn't get much better than that, does it? Providing you're not an
asylum seeker or anything.


LOAD-DATE: April 16, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              107 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 16, 2005, Saturday

ELECTION 2005: ELECTION DIARY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 7

LENGTH: 348 words


Good day

Labour, whose manifesto reached 1,163 in the Amazon sales ranking. Pity the
website offers to deliver it within three to five weeks. Bad day

Michael Howard, who attacked Labour over its postal voting campaign, only to be
forced on the defensive when the Conservatives were accused of using the same
tactics.

Irony of the day

Every time Tony Blair plays his election theme, U2's 'Beautiful Day', he is
giving support (and probably royalties as well) to the Roxy Music star Brian
Eno, who produced the song. The same Brian Eno is the main financial backer of
Reg Keys, the anti-war candidate who is standing against Mr Blair in his
Sedgefield constituency.

Speech of the day

Gordon Brown worked on young mums too, delivering a fact-laden speech that
turned off that half of his audience under the age of three, despite election
bribes of fruit, raisins and chocolate cookies.

Bargain of the day

10 Downing Street is for sale ... for under £140,000 " Downing St, Chippenham,
Wiltshire, that is.

Lie detector

Mr Kennedy 'returned to the campaign trail with gusto' on Thursday according to
the Liberal Democrat battlebus web log, which obviously hadn't given him the
once over. The poor man was fit to drop on account of a day-old baby in the
house.

Gaffe of the day

Liam Fox, who blurted out on Question Time that the Conservatives would announce
their tax plans over the weekend. Cue mayhem as the Sunday papers start
bombarding his weary press officers.

Quote of the day

'We are not a Conservative Party in drag,' UKIP leader Roger Knapman a former
Tory MP .

Q&A

1: Who said: 'He couldn't deliver a pizza'? About whom?

2: Whose manifesto is held together with green thread?

3: Who said 'green is the new pink'?

Answers

1: Labour loyalist Oona King, attacking her opponent George Galloway.

2: The Liberal Democrats, who claim every policy has an environmental aspect.
(Actually, the yellow tabloid is held together with staples)

3: The gay rights activist Peter Tatchell, who is backing the Green Party.

LOAD-DATE: April 18, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              108 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 16, 2005, Saturday

Needed: a cure for Labour pains and Irritable Jowell Syndrome

BYLINE: Janice Turner

SECTION: Features; 25

LENGTH: 981 words


MY FRIEND sat head in hands over lunch. He'd just written to his MP, something
he'd never done in his life. He said that after 20 years of voting Labour, this
time he just couldn't do it. "He only has a 2,000 majority," my friend sighed.
"I know, I know. The Tories could get in. But I just...can't." He will be voting
Liberal Democrat.

That's the sixth friend in two weeks. And their disaffection is not primarily
about Iraq. Labour's second term has been vexatious in so many different ways,
that each had his or her own unique "that's it!" moment. My friend yesterday,
something of a techno geek, is livid about identity cards, the Government
claiming a right to use personal data on spurious anti-terrorism grounds. But
another wonders why, after eight years, her local secondary school is not merely
bad but scary. One came across a five-year-old salary slip recently and
realised, despite several pay rises, that she is taking home no more today.
Another remembers how the overflowing sanitary bin in the hospital where she
gave birth was never emptied ...

And they are not much concerned that the polls are tightening. They will not at
the eleventh hour, hold their noses and vote Tony. They will vote Lib Dem even
if it means a Conservative victory, because -since they gained nothing
financially under Labour, and are too rich for tax credits or Sure Start
programmes -they have nothing at stake but their principles. It is more
important to punish Tony Blair than to keep Michael Howard out. And anyway, said
one, the Tories surely can't do too much damage in four years, can they? Smack
Mr Blair's bottom, four years of Majorish mediocrity and traffic cone hotline
lameness, then welcome back Gordon Brown, duly brought to heel.

Truly, even for Labour stalwarts, it has been an exasperating four years.

Canvassing with a red rosette must be like wearing a "Kick Me" sign. So much
maddening legislation, so many irrelevant battles. The Government has behaved as
if Utopia had been built and only minor refinements were needed. Why, we asked
in bafflement, are they wasting parliamentary time, huge policing bills and
electoral goodwill, stopping country folk killing foxes? Or trying to
criminalise parents who smack their kids? Or crusading to bring super-casinos to
our cities?

It is, somewhat bizarrely, the last which leaves me for the first time in my
life uncertain where I'll put my cross. Living in the Culture Secretary's
constituency, I'm suffering from what Private Eye diagnosed as "irritable Jowell
syndrome": I remember the gurning Tessa Jowell spinning a roulette wheel to
please her American gambling industry cronies and all socialist fibre just
seeping away.

Here in Dulwich & West Norwood, it is not lack of gambling outlets we bemoan but
that, despite a spate of violent robberies and a growing reputation for gun
crime, Camberwell police station opens only on Wednesdays. And then it is
staffed by unpaid local volunteers. Or that our one OKish state secondary school
-for those scraping within its 1,000m catchment area -has no playing field (long
sold off, thanks to Labour councils of yore) yet is surrounded by the sylvan
glades of private academies. But then Ms Jowell educates her son outside our
borough, so what does she know or care?

Perhaps it is time to return to my political roots: the first time I ever voted
was for the Liberals. Indeed, I was a disco-organising member of the Doncaster
Young Libs. At university how the Hampstead-types mocked when I protested that
this had been a radical, rebellious act. But then they didn't grow up among fat,
sexist Labour burghers, with their Paki and queer jokes -the complacent
councillors who were, a few years back, found guilty of expenses-fiddling and
taking bungs to allow building on greenfield sites, thus ensuring that Doncaster
is one of Britain's ugliest towns.

The Young Liberals debated gay rights, legalising cannabis and they rocked
against racism. Which was a whole lot more happening than being harangued by
closed minded and uncool Young Socialists down the Miners' Welfare Club. In one
sense then, voting Liberal was a protest vote -teenage kicks against prevailing
power -but it was also an ideological one.

The Lib Dems are insistent that their manifesto is a blueprint for government,
ie, that disaffected Labour voters will actually read it. But if they did, would
they agree with it? The Lib Dems have the great shining beacon of their
opposition to Iraq, plus plans to abolish top-up fees, reduce class sizes to 20
and oodles of fashionable family-friendly stuff. All this bathed in a golden "aw
bless!" glow by Charlie Kennedy's new-born boy.

But I'm not sure how the affluent, principled voter would view the tax plans
that Donald's sleep-deprived dad stumbled over on Thursday. Fifty per cent
income tax on those earning over £100,000 a year, followed by a second fleecing
from local income tax. Ironically those still loyal to Labour -the poorest
families - would benefit most under the Lib Dems. Because that sure is one
serious redistribution of income, Comrade Kennedy.

But then the middle-class Labour defector can vote in the sure knowledge they
won't be paying for it. In striking a cross for the Lib Dems he may well allow
the Tories into office: in voting for higher taxation, he may end up receiving
Tory tax breaks. It's the political deal of the century -keep your principles
and win pounds.

* And the cure is ...

To solve my electoral dilemma I try the questionnaire on the
www.whoshouldyouvotefor.com website. It tells me to vote UKIP. Blimey, that's
what happens when two glasses of wine gives you a silly, sentimental attachment
to the pound. I try again sober: it advises me to vote Green. But both times the
party least compatible with my views is the same: Labour.

janice.turner@thetimes.co.uk


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              109 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 16, 2005, Saturday

Phone mast concerns signal a memorable encore in Enfield

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Home news; 38

LENGTH: 715 words


Reporter at your beck and call...

PERHAPS the defining image of the 1997 Tory apocalypse was a bemused Stephen
Twigg smiling sheepishly and rolling his eyes as a returning officer announced
that he had vanquished a grim-faced Michael Portillo.

Mr Twigg was swept improbably into Parliament on a tide of national discontent
at a scandal-weary government. Eight years later he is scrapping for his future
and suddenly all politics is local.

I had been contacted by Jordan Dias, 19, a student at Edinburgh University, home
for the holidays in Mr Twigg's constituency, Enfield Southgate. Jordan, a former
Haberdashers' Aske's pupil, lives in Hadley Wood, at the very top end of the
constituency where London finally gives out to the green belt. A keen reader of
the resident association's newsletter, the Hadley Wood News, he said that the
latest edition was stuffed full of complaints about mobile phone masts.

Disputes about the masts are popping up all over the country. The introduction
of third-generation phone technology means that tens of thousands more are
needed. Campaigners who say that the radio waves they emit are a health risk are
horrified.

John Prescott last year promised a review of guidelines to councils on the
siting of masts, but this has been delayed. The Tories, in the meantime, have
said they will introduce tough controls on the siting of masts.

Enfield Southgate was a safe Conservative seat until Mr Twigg's triumph, and his
Tory challenger, a personable young solicitor and local councillor called David
Burrowes, is pushing hard on the subject of masts to try to overturn a more than
5,000 majority and reclaim this leafy patch. Just how hard becomes clear at a
news-agent's, where a stack of flyers announce that a reporter from The Times is
to meet Mr Burrowes and urges residents to show up in support.

When we arrive at the appointed place, beneath a hideous 15-metre (49ft) mast a
few metres from several houses, 20 angry people bend my ear. "It's horrendous,"
says Irene Gardener, whose garden fence is next to the mast. "I wake up to that
every morning. In the summer we can't open the windows because of the droning of
the fans."

Another woman says that she has been trying to sell her £250,000 house but when
would-be buyers see the mast they drive away without even knocking on the door.

"David is fantastic," gushes Samantha Allen, a mother of two. "I was Labour for
years. I voted for Twigg. But he won't be getting my vote ths time."

Mr Burrowes says that concern about the masts is "an example of a renewed
localism".

To be fair to Mr Twigg, he seems to have worked diligently on masts. He has met
residents often and says he has managed to stop one mast being erected. He will
be at a rally of concerned residents today.

We catch up with him at the Chicken Shed Theatre, where he and Cherie Blair, who
has come to give him a boost, watch a rehearsal of a dark dance work about war.

Mr Dias gives the former NUS president some tough questions on tuition fees,
then we talk masts. "I find it hard to see how mobile phones should be party
political." Nice try. Even the boyish Mr Twigg has been around long enough to
know that this is the reality of campaigning.

Just about everyone, including his Tory opponent, admits Mr Twigg is popular in
his constituency. He even has a good relationship with Mr Portillo, who is
coming to do a TV interview him on his 1997 victory.

I wonder if this Tiggerish junior education minister will be bouncing into the
Cabinet soon. "If I win, I'd love to do the job I'm doing now," he said. "It's
going to be close. This is a traditional Conservative seat. It's a two-horse
race."

Mr Dias still isn't sure who he'll vote for, but both of us have a hunch Mr
Twigg will be in Enfield for a while. "People of my generation think politicians
are old fuddy-duddies," Dias said. "He's the next generation." Just as long as
the electorate don't decide to ring the changes.

If your constituency is worth a closer look, e-mail
damian.whitworth@thetimes.co.uk

ENFIELD SOUTHGATE:

MP: Stephen Twigg (1997) 2001 result:

Labour 21,727

Conservative 16,181

Liberal Democrat 2,935

Green Party 662

UKIP 298

Independent 105

Majority: 5,546


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              110 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 16, 2005, Saturday

What not to vote: Danny and Timmy

BYLINE: Daniel Finkelstein and Tim Hames

SECTION: Home news; 39

LENGTH: 1267 words


Are you confused by your policy wardrobe? Afraid to come out of the electoral
closet? Not sure what colour your polling outfit should be? Then you've come to
the right place. Here Daniel Finkelstein and Tim Hames, Britain's pithiest pair
of political pundits, help floating voters to find out who they really are and
how to be true to themselves on May 5.

* DAVID WILSON: Westmorland & Lonsdale

Conservative majority 3,147

David Wilson, 47, runs an IT support company from his eight-bedroom house in
Sedburgh, Cumbria. Married with three children, he describes himself as
conservative (small "c"). He likes Tim Collins, his local MP, but feels
penalised for having a large home with a high council tax bill. "Should I vote
with my pocket -for the Liberal Democrats, who will scrap the tax -or my heart?"

Voting HISTORY- 2001 Conservative; 1997 Labour; 1992 Conservative.

DANNY SAYS: Nobody agrees with the entire programme of a political party. David
Cameron wrote the Tory manifesto, yet his own position on ID cards is different
from the one in the document. It's often hard to predict which party will make
you better off since there are so many variables involved. The important thing
is to work out who you really are, not to try textual analysis of party policy
papers.

So who are you, David Wilson? Well to start with you are inclined to favour a
US-style health system; you are a Eurosceptic, want more police officers, think
your Tory MP is clever and don't believe that it's racist to want to control
immigration. You are, in other words, thinking what Tories are thinking.

You're not undecided. I'm not even sure the Liberals would let you vote for
them.

TIM SAYS: As painful as it is for me to agree with Danny wholeheartedly, I have
to do so. There are members of the Shadow Cabinet who are more credible Liberal
Democrats.

VERDICT: Just get on with it. You're a Conservative.

* DAVID TILLEY: Calder Valley

Labour majority 3,094

David Tilley, 45, lives in a rented semi-detached house in Elland, West
Yorkshire. To make ends meet he has to work overtime in his job as an audit
controller. "I think of myself as a Labour supporter in the mould of the
Fabians, but I've been impressed by the campaigning of our Tory candidate."

Voting HISTORY- Labour in 1997 and 2001; Lib Dems in 1992

TIM SAYS: David, it seems to me that you are relatively straightforward. You are
basically old-ish Labour. Fallen out of love with Tony Blair a little, perhaps,
but instinctively hostile to the Conservative Party and the idea of Michael
Howard as prime minister. You also live in a constituency which could really
make a difference to the future of the country.

The fact that you have been relatively impressed by Liz Truss, your Conservative
candidate, reflects well on her but should not, in the end, be that relevant to
you. So vote Labour in your patch. Think of it as "Vote Blair, Get Brown".

DANNY SAYS: In your seat I'd vote Conservative but I'm not you and that's the
point. Ask yourself who you are. A fan of Denis Healey, inspired by left-wing
firebrands, dislikes Michael Howard. I think Tim is right, there's only one
party for you.

DANNY AND TIM'S VERDICT: Voting anything other than Labour runs the risk that
you will end up with a prime minister and a government that you would not care
for.

* ZULON BEGUM: Southend West

Conservative majority 7,941

Zulon Begum, 28, a legal assistant, is married with an 8-year-old son and lives
in Westcliff-on-Sea, Essex. "I marched against the war in Iraq and my main
concerns are the environment and globalisation. I'm worried that my vote will be
wasted."

Voting HISTORY- Did not vote in 1997, 2001

DANNY SAYS: We don't agree on much, do we Zulon? When I was on my Start the War
march you were out on the streets parading in the opposite direction. And let's
face it, Tony Blair isn't really very you either, is he? Your problem is that
you wonder if voting for anybody else would be a so-called "wasted" vote. Well
you're in luck. Voting Labour would be a "wasted" vote too. You live in a safe
Tory seat and there isn't much you can do about it. You may as well let your
conscience be your guide.

Charles Kennedy has been working pretty hard to make his party as left wing as
possible and it would be a shame if all that effort went unrewarded. So I think
that the Lib Dems and you deserve each other.

TIM SAYS: Damn. I have to agree with him again. The only alternative vote for
you might be the Greens but I doubt that Southend West will be the place where
the ecological revolution gains momentum.

Dress yourself in Dayglo yellow -Charles Kennedy is your man.

VERDICT: You are impressively politically motivated. It's important you vote
with your conscience. Go Lib Dem.

* SIMON UNSWORTH: Erewash

Labour majority 6,932

Simon Unsworth, 37, is a charity manager. He lives in a semi-detached two
bedroom house with his partner and their 5-year-old daughter.

"I'm disenchanted with the Conservatives and I'm a Eurosceptic with
environmental concerns."

Voting HISTORY- 2001 UKIP; 1997 Lib Dem; 1992 Conservative

TIM SAYS: You are a tricky customer. On the face of it, however, you should not
be. After all, at one stage you remark of the Tories that "these are not people
I could entrust my vote to" and then later on you assert that "I couldn't vote
for Labour". For someone who describes himself as open-minded, you seem to have
closed off the two major options quite firmly. That is especially true when you
consider that they are the only two parties that could conceivably win your
seat. In theory, that leaves you with the Lib Dems or one of the others. But you
are too hostile to the European Union to vote Lib Dem with any credibility.
Ultimately, I think you are, as you suggested, "slightly right of centre". In
that case, you should vote Tory to encourage them to make a political recovery.

DANNY SAYS: You can't have everything, that's your problem, though it's hardly
an unusual one. So, in the end, you have to decide what is most important to
you. If it's Europe, then it's got to be the Conservatives.

DANNY AND TIM'S VERDICT: A tough call but probably Tory.

* KATHLEEN BELL: Broxtowe

Labour majority 5,873

Kathleen Bell, 50, university lecturer, who lives in Nottingham. Married with
two children at secondary school, uses public transport and cycles. "I could be
paying more tax as I can afford it, but the electoral system needs reform."

Voting HISTORY- n/a

Constituency: Broxtowe

DANNY SAYS: A Lib Dem on the ballot was a let-out clause for the undecided. Not
any more. Now the party has a real identity with a genuine core. And you,
Kathleen, are one of them, right down to the bicycle. Don't worry about having
qualms over council tax, that's just a detail. In any case you actually want to
pay more tax, so be my guest.

Your interest in human rights does you credit and you share the Liberal view on
travellers. You are a Pimby (park in my back yard). There also aren't that many
voters who take an interest in the question of postal votes and the election
system -and you want to pull the troops out of Iraq. It's got to be the Lib Dems
for you.

TIM SAYS: Not again. The only issue here is why you need any counselling on what
to do with your ballot paper. You are obviously the sort who belives
passionately in recycling it. You should be a Liberal Democrat parliamentary
candidate, not a supposedly uncertain and uncommitted voter.

VERDICT: No question about it, a Liberal Democrat.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              111 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 16, 2005, Saturday

UKIP trumpets its claim to be the best of British

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow, Political Correspondent

SECTION: Home news; 40

LENGTH: 327 words


THERE is an elephant in the room at this election, said the UK Independence
Party at the publication of its manifesto yesterday; namely, the little
mentioned issue of the European Union.

It was a curiously American expression for the members of this vehemently
patriotic party to use, but if they were being accurate there was another type
of elephant lurking in the swish atrium where the event was held.

Elephants are rarely orange-skinned and white-furred, but Robert Kilroy-Silk is
the unmentionable beast that stalks the UKIP. The former broadcaster, who
pounced on the UKIP in a blaze of publicity last year, soon fled the pack,
trumpeting his own brand of politics under the name of Veritas.

Losing Mr Kilroy-Silk had done nothing to harm the party; quite the opposite,
protested Nigel Farage, its most prominent MEP. "He was very good for us," said
Mr Farage, "for a period of two or three weeks."

Both the UKIP and Veritas advocate withdrawal from the EU and an end to most
forms of immigration. But Mr Farage said the difference between them was clear.
"We're a party based on principle, not on the ego of one man," he said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk had produced the Veritas manifesto 24 hours earlier, but the
UKIP's chairman, Petrina Holdsworth, said that she had not bothered to check it
out. "I don't think it was worth reading," she said.

Veritas and the UKIP are directing their efforts at Labour supporters. Mr
Kilroy-Silk is standing in a Labour marginal, while 19 of the 21 target seats
for the UKIP are held by Labour or the Liberal Democrats. The UKIP is fighting
every seat in the West Midlands, capitalising on the MG Rover collapse.

And on that subject, Roger Knapman, the UKIP leader, stressed his Britishness by
pointing out that he owned not one, but two Rovers. "And I'll buy another if
they carry on," he said.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, for his part, does not drive a car. He travels in a
chauffeur-driven Jaguar.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              112 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

CAMPAIGN VIEW The Veritas about Kilroy and the 'F' word menace

BYLINE: By Frank Johnson

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 008

LENGTH: 484 words

ROBERT KILROY-SILK once made some critical remarks in a newspaper column about
certain aspects of the Muslim world. Though some of us might have phrased them
more diplomatically, a great number of us thought they were broadly correct. So
of course his television controllers sacked him.

Becoming thus unemployed, he seemed to have no alternative than to become leader
of a political party.

First, Mr Kilroy-Silk offered himself as leader of the UK Independence Party. He
overlooked that party's already having a leader. This might have been because,
like most of us, he had never heard of him. But, whoever he was, this Ukip
leader saw Mr Kilroy-Silk off. It was a triumph for unknowns everywhere.

Unashamed, Mr Kilroy-Silk founded Veritas. At first, this seemed a useful
product. Since Tizer became hard to find, the country had needed a good fizzy
drink. But, even though we already have at least three of them, it turned out to
be a political party.

Thus some of us awoke yesterday to Mr Kilroy-Silk canvassing some innocent
street in Middle England, a stretch of the nation which the other parties are
much tormenting at the moment. A youth of Asian antecedents shouted at him at
length for what he had allegedly said about Muslims. It seemed a reasonable
heckle at election time.

Then the youth swore. This enabled Mr Kilroy-Silk to take the high ground. He
said he believed in "zero tolerance" of obscenities in public. He added that
there were police nearby and implied that it should become a matter for them.

Sure enough, a policewoman intervened, although so far as one gathered no arrest
was made. Today then interviewed the youth, who emphasized his respectability by
saying that he was in higher education.

That was also true of Lenin, Osama bin Laden and many another disturber of
international peace, but the youth seemed more benign. He excused himself by
saying that he felt strongly about what Mr Kilroy-Silk had said about Muslims.
Many people do not need such an excuse to utter obscenities about Mr
Kilroy-Silk.

The youth can be praised for discussing, as we are always told we should, issues
rather than personalities. At least there was someone who genuinely felt
strongly about something in this election.

So Mr Kilroy-Silk, having won sympathy for those remarks about Islam, has turned
out to be the attempted stealer of an unknown's job and a police grass. That is
the Veritas about him.

But the matter of obscenity was not over for the day. An International Monetary
Fund report said Gordon Brown would have to "accelerate the pace of fiscal
consolidation".

The IMF had publicly used what Mr Kilroy-Silk would call the "F" word: "fiscal."
There could be only one meaning for that kind of filth: there will have to be
higher taxes after the election.

The IMF was telling Mr Brown to fiscal off. But there was no policewoman around
for Mr Brown to grass to.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              113 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

VERITAS Cash crisis limits anti-Europe ambitions

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 009

LENGTH: 376 words

ROBERT Kilroy-Silk's attempt to change British politics is being crippled by a
cash crisis, it emerged yesterday.

Veritas, his new anti-European Union party, is so short of money that election
candidates are turning away rather than paying the pounds 500 deposit and other
election expenses.

According to one well-placed source, the party had just pounds 77.87 in its bank
account last week. Mr Kilroy-Silk, the party leader, denied that, claiming
Veritas had "several thousands of pounds" at its disposal.

But at the launch of the party's manifesto, the former Labour MP freely admitted
that a lack of major donors was reducing Veritas ambitions. The party, formed
earlier this year after Mr Kilroy-Silk stormed out of the UK Independence Party,
is still pinning its hopes on its celebrity leader getting elected in the
Labour-held seat of Erewash, Derbys.

But hopes of fielding more than 100 candidates are fading fast, with party
sources concerned that it will now struggle even to register the 88 candidates
needed to qualify for a television party election broadcast. "We could lose 20
to 25 today," said a Veritas source. The one chink of light is a donor paying
for thousands of election leaflets.

But asked how much campaign cash was available, Mr Kilroy-Silk replied "there
isn't any".

He added: "We would have hoped, of course, that at some stage someone would have
come along with a great deal of money.  "Had that happened, it would have
transformed the party."

The former chat show host has lost his six-figure contract as a Sunday Express
columnist but remains a millionaire and is understood to be putting some of his
own cash on the table.

The Veritas campaign will be based on Mr Kilroy-Silk's persistent theme that the
main political parties are not listening to the genuine concerns of the British
people over mass immigration, control from Europe and multiculturalism.

Yesterday, he said Veritas would "end the nonsense of multi-culturalism", not
least by outlawing forced marriages. Mr Kilroy-Silk fought shy of naming Muslim
culture as one of his targets.  "Cultures that chop off limbs, behead people are
reprehensible," said Mr Kilroy-Silk before adding that he had not claimed such
practices took place in Britain.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              114 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

'I accept I am seen as wet and useless' FACE TO FACE with Oliver Letwin

BYLINE: By ALICE THOMSON

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 010

LENGTH: 1471 words

OLIVER Letwin wakes up at 5 am and crawls back into bed at 2.30 every morning.
This, he explains, gives him just over 21 hours a day to campaign.

By 6 am he is at Conservative campaign headquarters, trying to discover black
holes in Labour's accounts. At this point in the day, he is the shadow
chancellor, in charge of the Tories' national campaign on tax and public
spending.

Then at 10 am he gets into his Range Rover, which is stuffed with emergency
rations -- pillows, chocolate and cheese -- and turns into a Parliamentary
candidate who is battling to save a marginal seat. "I'll speak to Andy Marr and
Nick Robinson on the way to the old people's home," he shouts to a spin doctor
down a mobile phone.

In 2001, Mr Letwin held Dorset West with a tiny majority of 1,414 -- which means
that he has now gone to the top of the list in the Liberal Democrats'
"decapitation" campaign. The UK Independence Party, Veritas and the Greens are
standing against him and Billy Bragg is campaigning to persuade Labour
supporters to vote Liberal Democrat to get him out.

For the next three weeks, Mr Letwin is leaving nothing to chance. Every day, he
makes the three-hour drive to Dorset -- where he spends the afternoon trying to
resolve hedge disputes or to save rural post offices -- then returns to his wife
and 11-year-old twins in London for a couple of hours of sleep. "Luckily, the
children like canvassing, so I'll see them for an hour on Saturday," he says.

When Chris Patten, as Tory party chairman, tried to combine local and national
campaigning in a similar way in 1997, the experience left him feeling shattered.
On top of that, he lost his seat and his party lost power. But Mr Letwin is
undeterred.  "I love it," he says. "It's not a nightmare, it's a campaign: my
favourite thing. I am not a liability. It's not as bad as having six-month-old
twins; if you've done that, you can cope with any amount of sleep."

He thinks it is good for him to have to fight for his seat. "I spend a huge
amount of time here [in Dorset] attending to small things that upset people on a
day-to-day basis. Yesterday, one woman was worried about conifers and another
had been frightened by the speed of heavy goods vehicles."

David Davis calls Mr Letwin the Conservatives' "Hampstead liberal", and David
Blunkett once described him as an "adorable" MP. Everyone seems to agree that he
is decent, clever and kind -- if a little accident-prone. There is even an
"Independents for Letwin" campaign in Dorset West, which is being run by
supporters who say that they are "not voting for Letwin because he is a Tory,
but because he is intelligent, tireless, sincere and effective".

He is the kind of man who opens doors to burglars at five in the morning -- as
he did once, only to garner embarrassing headlines. "I'm not an aggressive
politician," he says. "People are generally polite, respectful and kindly in
their ordinary lives, so they expect politicians to be like that, too."

As we arrive at the Poet Laureate pub in Poundbury, Prince Charles's model
village, for the first meeting of the day, several people are clamouring to buy
him a drink. When we walk around the limestone streets -- "a bit like a stage
set", Mr Letwin says -- drivers stop to wish him luck. Mothers actually want him
to kiss their babies. "I can't do that -- far too much of a clichI," the
candidate says, with a high-pitched giggle.

At the old people's homes, he is treated as a favoured son-in-law. He reassures
the residents that he will support the return of the matron and bring back the
local bobbies. When a man snores, he apologises for being boring.

Another constituent tells him: "Keep up the attack on immigration. It's a
winner." Mr Letwin smiles politely. He does not blow loudly on the Tory dog
whistle, preferring hope to fear, and seems rather nervous about the Tories'
strident campaign.

Rather than championing his Conservative credentials, he once said that he could
have joined the Liberal Party of the 1960s. "I've defined myself variously as a
Whig and a classical liberal," he says. "I believe in freedom and choice and in
trying to have a society where there's a maximum of opportunity." In the cafI,
which is run by a Liberal Democrat councillor, he is given a free can of cola.
"I'm hoping to win over his wife," says Mr Letwin.

If the shadow chancellor is going to win the battle on tax, however, he cannot
afford to be too nice. Labour is gunning for his spending proposals and many
Conservatives want him to be bolder about offering tax cuts . On Wednesday, he
got into trouble with Right-wingers for refusing to rule out increases in
National Insurance.

Next week, he will unveil the details of his tax-cut plans which, he freely
admits, will not satisfy all Tories.  "I sit before you as a person who has been
accused by a lot of people in the party of being a man who is wet and useless
because he ought to be razing taxes to the ground, and hang other things," he
says. "I accept that, but we've come to a view and I believe in it. Through
thick and a lot of thin, we've stuck to it like glue."

The Tories' unique selling point, he says, is the idea that public spending can
go up and taxes can simultaneously be brought down by saving money from reducing
Government waste.  "My proposition is not that putting money into the public
services leads to an unaffordable burden. Quite the contrary. The proposition is
that you can actually combine in a growing economy better public services and
lower taxes if, in the middle of that box, you get value for money."

At the last election, Mr Letwin went into hiding after he said the Tories wanted
to cut taxes by pounds 20 billion. As shadow chancellor, he no longer wants to
slash and burn.  "I've completely changed my view," he tells us, candidly. "I've
come to the conclusion that the most important thing we can do for the country
is to improve the hospitals and the schools and the policing. To do that, you
have to have fundamental structural reform, and you have to put the money in to
enable those reforms to work."

He talks happily about narrowing the gap between rich and poor and says that tax
cuts should be aimed at eliminating particular unfairnesses rather than reducing
the over-all burden of taxation.

Has the former Thatcherite come around to Tony Blair's way of thinking?  "I'm
always happy to concede the truth," he says. "I believe money should go into the
public services. I believe this country is rich enough if it spends the money
wisely to spend enough on schools and hospitals and police to have the world's
best services. I would love to send my children to state school, and I want
everyone's hospital to be as good as my local Dorset A and E."

Although Margaret Thatcher is godmother to his son, he believes that the
Conservative Party must not be mesmerised by her legacy. "It must accept and
cherish the past, but it must look forward," he says.

After the Tories suffered a second landslide defeat in 2001, Mr Letwin said that
the party's fixation on tax and asylum had been "electorally crucifying". Is
Michael Howard not in danger of making the same mistake this time? "Our
programme, this time, is a rounded programme," he replies.

But is the emphasis on immigration control going to help create the "neighbourly
society" he once advocated? "It's terribly important that we don't bury our head
in the sand and say this isn't a problem," he says. "If we want a society that's
coherent and where people respect one another, it has to be a society where
immigration is controlled. That doesn't mean a society without immigration -- we
need the skills that immigrants bring."

As we walk past a former gipsy site in Poundbury, he says that political parties
need "calm and sane policies" about issues of concern to voters, such as the
position of travellers. "It's one of those areas where if people feel hard done
by, they feel it with tremendous passion," he says. "People aren't anti-gipsy --
they're anti others being able to get away with things that they can't."

On May 5, Mr Letwin could lose his seat -- and his party could find that it has
lost three elections in a row. If that happens, one of the great hopes of the
Tory Party will have spent his entire political career so far in opposition. But
he is increasingly confident that he will win his seat, and he believes there is
a chance that he could be moving into No 11.

When a constituent asks him whether the Tories are going to win, he replies: "I
haven't the slightest idea, but I hope we will win."

As dusk falls, we leave him addressing a public meeting. He won't start driving
back to London until 10 pm, and tomorrow he will be back pounding the streets.
But he refuses to use a helicopter. "It's just not good value for money," he
says.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              115 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

Right man in the chair will bring union out of disunity

BYLINE: By JOHN INVERDALE

SECTION: Sport; Cricket Pg. 005

LENGTH: 647 words

THE non-executive chairman of the Rugby Football Union management board.
Possibly the dullest opening words of any article in this paper today. But while
the politics of sport can often be the most interminably unbearable subject,
that does not mean it is of no consequence.

So if you've stuck with me beyond those first 10 words, then please hang around
for the next 500 or so, because rugby union could be about to submerge itself in
another quagmire of self-examination and tedious self-destruction, depending on
the result at the end of this month of the vote for the NECOTRFUMB (as we'll now
call it). I know all anyone cares about at the moment is will Jonny play
tomorrow, and who's getting relegated, but strangely this issue might matter
rather more in the long term.

As if my postman didn't have enough to thrust through my letter-box at the
moment from UKIP and other pointless adjuncts to the election campaign, he also
presented me this week with the manifestos for the two candidates for
NECOTRFUMB. One is Jack Rowell, who probably needs no introduction as a former
England coach and mastermind of the Bath dynasty. The other is Martyn Thomas,
who sits on the RFU Council, and who is a stalwart of the Notts, Lincs and
Derbys constituent body. Now at the mention of such rugby managerial-speak, most
of you have probably just turned to today's runners at Newmarket, but for the
dozen-or-so still with me, do take some time to consider the present state of
the English game.

You'd be amazed how full it still is of divisive politics, with staggering
conflicts within the RFU themselves, being pulled from pillar to post by
arguments about club versus country, and with the higher echelons of the sport
becoming more and more removed from the realities of life lower down the scale.
Equally the 'other ranks' in the game have to understand that the Premiership
clubs are the ones who have driven rugby forward over the past decade. But
residual mistrust is slowing down the sport at a time when it should still be
capitalising on England's World Cup success -- someone hit the 'pause' button,
so who's going to move it to 'fast forward'?

Both manifestos are full of worthy cliches about 'one game one union' and 'a
unified game going forward'. Thomas is big on the buzzword of the moment,
'accountability', while Rowell advocates 'bottom-up development'. (Be honest --
you don't want to hear any more of this do you?) In fact, there are alarming
similarities between the RFU election and the other one going on at the moment,
in that everyone seems to be in favour of almost exactly the same things.

However, after Rugby Special on Sunday, I was collared by a couple of members of
Harlequins, anxious about the prospect of Division One rugby next season, who
categorically insisted that if Rowell won, the first thing he'd do would be to
ring fence the Premiership. Aha, I thought. So I rang Jack, who assured me that
he was committed to the concept of promotion and relegation as a fundamental
incentive for ambitious clubs. Rowell's prospectus offers a far clearer game
plan, but in reality, this is not a policy-driven election but one that is
highly presidential.

So the game is crying out for a man who can stop the in-fighting and give the
sport a clear vision of the future, and who has the force of personality to
achieve that. Will the top end of the game respect Thomas? You have to wonder.

A worst-case scenario would be a breakaway by the elite clubs, ultimately
frustrated by what they see as RFU prevarication. Rowell, on the other hand, has
been there and got innumerable T-shirts in both the business and rugby worlds.
For the good of the game, it is he who should be walking round Twickenham next
month with a new one, with NECOTRFUMB emblazoned on it. He would wear it with
pride, and he might even bring some union to a disunited game.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              116 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 15, 2005

Election 2005: Respect and Veritas pitch to poor

BYLINE: Michael White Political editor

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 353 words


The election's two most flamboyant ex-Westminster insiders, George Galloway and
Robert Kilroy-Silk, yesterday launched their respective party manifestos with
policies pitched at poorer voters who deserve a "fairer" deal.

Veritas proposes a 22% flat-rate of income tax, payable by anyone on more than
£12,000 a year, compared with the current £4,895 of earnings not taxed.

Respect has plans for more affordable housing and transport, improved pensions,
more schools and a better-funded NHS, as well as a higher minimum wage and no
top-up fees.

Mr Galloway's Respect party will field 26 candidates on May 5. Mr Kilroy-Silk's
Veritas will have up to 80 across the country.

He had been expected to boost the UK Independence party until he broke ranks
after being elected a Ukip MEP last year.

Both have fallen out with the Labour party that made them MPs, Mr Galloway over
Iraq in 2003, the former daytime TV host over leftwing infiltration in the
1980s.

Both insist they are more Labour than the party led by Tony Blair.

Attacking both Labour and Tories, Mr Galloway, standing against Labour loyalist
Oona King in Bethnal Green and Bow, said: "Britain deserves better than Tweedle
Dum and Tweedle Dee. The parties of privatisation and war know the price of
everything and the value of nothing. Certainly not the value of life and civil
liberties, both of which they shred at home and abroad."

Mr Galloway's chief concern remains the Iraq war - and he is courting Muslim
votes.

Mr Kilroy-Silk's concern is British independence from the European Union. He
fell out with Ukip over his thwarted leadership ambitions.

Apart from UK withdrawal the Veritas manifesto calls for strict immigration
controls as well as "our fair share" of refugees, more police, life sentences
for paedophiles, and a royal commission to review the drug laws.

After expressing support for MG Rover workers yesterday, Mr Galloway was asked
why he did not drive one of their cars.

"I drive a Mercedes because there is no Rover equivalent for the tasks my
Mercedes has to perform. I wish there was."


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              117 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 15, 2005

Election 2005: Sketch: The world according to Kilroy (courtesy of the Daily
Mail)

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 6

LENGTH: 575 words


Yesterday saw the manifesto launch of Veritas, now led by Robert Kilroy-Silk
following his departure from Ukip last year. It is the only British party with a
Latin name.

Kilroy predicted that he would be reviled in every British newspaper this
morning, so to prove him wrong I shall refrain from misquoting the Queen's
famous Latin tag and won't call him the "anus horribilis".

The leader gleamed his way into the room. Like many people who spend much of
their life on television, the rays seem to have permeated his skin, making it
glossy and perma-tanned.

The central plank of the Veritas platform is "no" to the EU and "no" to
immigration. (They also want a 22% flat rate of income tax.)

Everywhere Kilroy goes in this land of ours, he finds people telling him how
enraged they are that their country has been stolen from them, by Brussels, by
the metropolitan elite, and by the curse of multiculturalism. (And they want a
flat rate of income tax.)

Now, I am not calling Kilroy a racist. Definitely not. It's just that an awful
lot of what he says might be warmly applauded by racists. But when you are
speaking only the truth, the pure unvarnished sooth, no nonsense about being PC
can ever hope to silence you.

"The Tories ask if we are thinking what they are thinking! I can tell you that
we are not thinking - we are saying, saying what good, decent British people are
saying - openly and fearlessly."

Would his candidates stand any chance of winning a seat, we asked. Here he was
unambiguous. The answer was no. This was what he was told by the main parties,
the so- called experts, the media and the metropolitan elite.

He waved in our direction. I took another sip of chilled Meursault and nibbled
on a polenta butty.

But it was not what people were saying. They wanted a party that spoke the
truth. "They want to vote for politicians who are real people, who have lived
and worked in the real world."

One wondered vaguely just how "real" his career at Westminster and in TV studios
was compared to that of, say, a dustman or a bus driver.

But it didn't matter. Kilroy ran the event as if it were one of his morning TV
shows. "Has anyone got a copy of the Daily Mail?" he asked. "Winston has!" A
black man in a white suit rushed forward with the paper.

Kilroy waved it in front of the cameras, showing a picture of asylum seekers in
France, apparently queuing to get into Britain. He could have plunged into the
audience with a microphone to ask what we thought on the topic of "asylum
seeking murderers and the women who stand by them".

"These people are safe! They have found a safe haven! They are in France!" he
cried.

"What's wrong with them staying in France?" asked one of the sidekicks.

It had cost £143,000 to process the application for asylum from the terrorist
who murdered a policeman. It was "nonsense, immoral and obscene!"

And don't get him started on legal migrants from the EU. We can expect hundreds
of thousands from Romania and Ukraine. And Turkey! He shuddered.

As for multiculturalism. There should be one culture in Britain, British
culture.

We asked what aspects of other cultures he opposed. "Genital mutilation,
arranged marriages, the oppression of women, all the norms of a medieval
village!" In nowhere he had visited had anyone asked for more immigration.

(But we should remember that they are all very keen on a flat rate of income
tax.)


LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              118 of 175 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 15, 2005

Election briefing: Rover no more?

LENGTH: 1068 words



HIGHLIGHT: Today: 6,000 Rover workers face the sack, Labour targets young
mothers, and Howard promises to link pensions to earnings


Welcome to Guardian Unlimited's free daily election briefing.

Today: 6,000 Rover workers face the sack, Labour targets young mothers, and
Howard promises to link pensions to earnings

>>> AT A GLANCE ...

There will be no reprieve for Rover. Shanghai Automotive has confirmed that
takeover talks are over. Six thousand jobs will go unless the government decides
to extend the £6.5m loan it announced last weekend - which is highly unlikely.

As I write, Gordon Brown is vaunting Sure Start and Labour's childcare reforms
at a London nursery to a chorus of screams and gurgles. So-called soccer moms
were courted heavily during the US election, and Labour has identified their
British equivalent - " school-gate mums", the million or so mothers with young
children who could, they believe, swing the election definitively in Labour's
favour. The party has printed a six-page pamphlet modelled on supermarket
magazines to woo them.

Michael Howard promised to increase pensions in line with earnings and attacked
the "collapse of our pensions since 1997". But the Tory pensions spokesman,
David Willetts, said the party would not force people to save because that would
be an admission of failure.

Charles Kennedy was spotted indulging in a quick early-morning cigarette before
setting out the Lib Dems' environmental policies. The party wants a fifth of
Britain's energy to be generated from renewable sources by 2020. The Lib Dem
leader's own energy levels appeared to have risen since yesterday. He has
changed a nappy, under supervision.

EU withdrawal is still Ukip's main platform, but the party also wants
referendums on the future of the Scottish parliament and the Welsh assembly.

More on these stories

>>> WHO'S WHERE

Tony and Cherie Blair, accompanied by Ruth Kelly, have been campaigning in
Crawley to promote a new Labour pamphlet called Families Matter.

Gordon Brown met Labour's target audience of "school-gate mums" at a primary
school in Camberwell before delivering a speech at a nursery in Coram's Fields,
near the City of London.

Michael Howard will visit a Sikh temple in Watford.

Charles Kennedy is visiting an environment centre in Leicester before leaving
for the Falmouth docks. He will join Simon Hughes, Vince Cable and Sarah Teather
on a Thames riverboat sailing from Westminster to Greenwich tomorrow morning.

>>> QUOTES OF THE DAY

"When I talk about a school-gate election, I talk about mothers who are asking
us, rightly so, about the childcare that's available, the quality of childcare;
how we can help them as they struggle to balance work and family life; how to
give their children more opportunities and ensure that we have the highest
standards of education in every school." - Gordon Brown

>>> WHAT THE PAPERS ARE SAYING

FT: James Blitz - "Michael Howard and the Conservatives remain disciplined. But
they have still not achieved anything like the breakthrough against Labour that
they need ... [They] are flatlining in the polls."

FT: Philip Stephens - "Behind the campaign excitement ... there is still a sense
that the voters made up their minds some time ago that they can just about
forgive Mr Blair. For all that Mr Howard has articulated voters' grievances, he
has not offered a coherent programme for government."

FT - The Lib Dems are not a true alternative to the other main parties.

Sun: "If Kennedy can't get his head round his tax rises, he should hand over to
someone who might make more sense. How about his son Donald?"

Mirror: Sue Carroll - "Patently [Tony Blair] feels comfortable with women. When,
accidentally crushed in the back of the battle bus, I touch his knee, he laughs.
'Feel free, Sue, it's the best thing that's happened to me all day.' ... He
convinced me his work's not done. I believe him. And I think he might even do
it."

Mail: "Won't Britain rue the day if it wakes on May 6 to a hung parliament - and
the sight of the high-taxing, high-spending Tony Blair announcing that he
intends to govern in collaboration with the ... apparently clueless Charles
Kennedy?"

Independent: Lib Dem manifesto is "laudable ... refreshing".

Telegraph: Alice Thomson - Lib Dems are "the party for students, pensioners and
GM protesters, not parents struggling to bring up their first child".

Telegraph: "People need to know the Tories have a plan - not merely to expel
undesirables, but to transform the country."

Times: "A manifesto that smacks of having been written by sheep, with the odd
goat occasionally managing to force a more realistic provision on to the
agenda."

Guardian: Larry Elliott - The poor feel "patronised and despised" under Labour.

Times: Postal voting has soared by up to 500% in some marginals.

Telegraph: Oliver Letwin is surviving on two and a half hours' sleep a night in
an effort to keep Dorset West.

Times: Simon Jenkins - "There is not the slightest convergence between the
Bourgass case as revealed in the Old Bailey this week and the crazed media and
political coverage of it ... Britain is in the grip of dumbed-down politics."

>> LATEST POLLS

Telegraph/YouGov: Lab 38 Con 33 LD 22 (Lab lead 5%)

We know the Conservatives come top when voters are asked which party would best
handle immigration. But which policy areas do they trust Labour to handle?
Childcare now comes top, suggesting that previously undecided women are
returning to Labour; unemployment, traditionally a male preoccupation, comes
next.

YouGov also asked about tactical voting intentions. And they suggest that where
voters are aware that only two parties have a realistic chance of winning their
constituency, support for the third party - no matter which it is - falls away
dramatically.

>>> ELECTIONS PAST

"One hardly knows where to begin with an earthquake. All the Liberal front
Opposition bench has been swept out of Parliament ... " The Manchester Guardian
opens Liane Katz's analysis of Lloyd George's triumph in the 1918 election

>>> FROM OUR ELECTION BLOG

On the blog today: Polly Toynbee finds more reasons to hold your nose and vote
Labour, Matthew Tempest blogs from Ukip's manifesto launch, and Ros Taylor on
the Prescott Express.

>>> ON TV TONIGHT

6.55pm, BBC1/ITV1 and 7.55pm, C4: Party election broadcast: Labour

Titled "Michael Howard's CV". Michael Howard's record is played out to the tune
of Gladys Knight and the Pips singing The Way We Were.

>>> FIND YOUR CONSTITUENCY

How marginal is your seat? Our interactive map shows you who's standing and what
the results were last time.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              119 of 175 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 15, 2005

Ukip launches manifesto

LENGTH: 639 words



HIGHLIGHT: Promising referendums, a cull of professional politicians and British
withdrawal from the European Union, the United Kingdom Independence party today
launched its manifesto for the general election.


Promising referendums, a cull of professional politicians and British withdrawal
from the European Union, the United Kingdom Independence party today launched
its manifesto for the general election.

The party won 15% of the vote and 11 MEPs in the European parliamentary
elections last year but has since lost its former star, Robert Kilroy-Silk, who
left to start his own party after his leadership ambitions were thwarted.

For a short time, Ukip's previously low poll ratings edged to half of the
support for the Tories as Mr Kilroy-Silk brought to the party the communication
skills he honed on television and the endorsement of the former Dynasty actress
Joan Collins.

Nigel Farage, MEP for the south-east region, said that Mr Kilroy-Silk had been
the "icing on the cake" in the 2004 European election campaign but insisted that
the party was more united without him.

"He was good for us for a period of three weeks; he raised our profile," he
said. "He helped the campaign but he wasn't the campaign itself.

"He was the icing on the cake as far as that campaign was concerned."

Current opinion polls put the party on a fraction of the support it enjoyed last
year but its leaders claim they are hopeful of seizing a "toehold" in
Westminster on May 5. It is fielding around 500 candidates, but concentrating
its efforts in 20 constituencies, many in the south-west, where it performed
particularly well in the 2004.

In the foreword to the Ukip manifesto - which has the subheading "We want our
country back" - Roger Knapman MEP, the party leader who resisted Mr
Kilroy-Silk's bid for his job, appealed to wavering supporters that a vote for
any of the larger parties would be a wasted vote that continued "our
subservience to Brussels".

Mr Knapman put immigration at the heart of his anti-EU arguments, insisting only
withdrawal would give Britain control over its borders to reduce immigration.

"Only Ukip can credibly have an immigration policy. Labour have been in power
for eight years and they haven't controlled immigration," he said at the
manifesto launch.

"The Tories can't control it because they want to stay in Europe and the EU
won't let us control our borders. What on earth is Michael Howard talking about
when he thinks he can have some sort of immigration policy in the British
national interests?"

The party advocates immediate EU withdrawal, the phased repeal of European laws
and regulations and the negotiation of a free trade agreement. It also wants to
scrap all English regional assemblies and put the fate of the Welsh assembly and
Scottish parliament to a referendum.

"We believe in small government and we will substantially reduce the number of
professional politicians in Wales and elsewhere," Mr Knapman told reporters at
the manifesto launch.

He said Ukip supported more referendums because the party's experience was that
Westminster MPs did not represent the true views of the electorate, especially
in relation to the EU.

Other policies include increasing government borrowing to fund £25bn of tax
cuts, including halving council tax for all, scrapping the 10% income tax band
and raising the inheritance tax threshold to £500,000.

At the manifesto launch yesterday for his rival Veritas party, Mr Kilroy-Silk
pledged a flat rate of income tax, withdrawal from the EU and the setting up of
an immigration taskforce to find illegal immigrants and deport them. He said the
party stood for "traditional British freedoms".

Ukip has a similar emphasis on Britishness - it wants all immigrants to take
Britishness tests - but Mr Farage sought to counter what he called the
impression that Ukip was a middle-aged, white male party. He said it was
fielding candidates from ethnic minorities in some urban areas. "They are
standing for the Ukip because they feel British, they feel part of this
country," he told reporters.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              120 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

GENERAL ELECTION 2005: WHY I AM VOTING ... TORY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 28

LENGTH: 190 words


Jilly Cooper:

I like Michael Howard. I met him at a Wagner opera and we had a lovely chat and
have corresponded a bit since. He's a very sweet man and a lot more attractive
in the flesh. And I love his wife. She's a very beautiful, elegant woman.

Labour don't understand the countryside " I don't think they even know where it
is. We have ramblers given rights to roam all over our properties; they've
stopped our country sports and they're building houses everywhere, ruining the
countryside. I don't believe it when Mr Prescott claims it's about affordable
housing. Labour made a real hash of dealing with foot- and-mouth. They needn't
have killed all those animals " the funeral pyres were just dreadful.

Also, hospitals: Labour have let them run down. My daughter had a baby recently
and there just weren't enough nurses. There was no one to hold her hand and she
was turfed out at 11 the next morning. I voted UKIP at the last election but I
want to give the Tories a chance to make a comeback. They're ready for it.

I also have a delightful godson, Kim Humphreys, who's standing as a Tory against
Tessa Jowell.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              121 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

ELECTION 2005: LABOUR CAMPAIGN IS WORTHY OF GOEBBELS, CLAIMS GALLOWAY

BYLINE: BY BEN RUSSELL AND NIGEL MORRIS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 30

LENGTH: 384 words

HIGHLIGHT:
George Galloway said that Labour was 'a government of liars' TOBY MADDEN


George Galloway launched the left-wing Respect coalition's campaign with attacks
on Labour over Iraq and the decline of manufacturing industry. The firebrand
former Labour MP condemned his former party yesterday as 'a government of
liars', likening them to the Nazi propaganda chief, Joseph Goebbels.

He lambasted ministers for failing to shore up the crisis-hit MG Rover carmaker
and called for 'punitive' corporation taxes on firms such as Tesco, which posted
record profits last week. Respect also backs a rise in the national minimum wage
and the abolition of university tuition fees.

It is putting up 25 candidates next month and backing anti-war Labour MPs and
independent candidates critical of the invasion of Iraq. Mr Galloway said: 'The
war showed we have a government of liars who will stop at nothing when they are
decided on a course of action. It's a spin machine that Goebbels would have been
proud of. If you don't punish Tony Blair for Iraq why shouldn't it be Syria,
Iran, Cuba, North Korea next " or somewhere else on the ever-lengthening 'axis
of evil'.'

He mocked the three main parties as 'Tweedledee, Tweedledum and Tweedle-
Dee-and-a-half.'

Mr Galloway, standing against the Blairite loyalist, Oona King, in Bethnal Green
and Bow, also drew parallels between the Prime Minister and Zimbabwe's
President, Robert Mugabe.

And Veritas, the party formed by Robert Kilroy-Silk, unveiled its election
platform with a vow to 'end the nonsense of multiculturalism'. He said: 'Nobody
voted for multiculturalism. It is something that has been imposed by the liberal
fascists in London. It's not what people want.'

Veritas, formed after the acrimonious departure of Mr Kilroy-Silk from the
United Kingdom Independence Party (UKIP), says it will field more than 80
candidates. He is contesting the Labour-held constituency of Erewash in
Derbyshire.

The party is demanding an immediate withdrawal from the European Union, a flat
income tax rate of 22 per cent, combined with an increased personal allowance of
£12,000. It also wants life sentences for convicted paedophiles.

UKIP launches its election drive today. It is standing in more than 500
constituencies. Other policies it is promoting are cutting immigration and
strong opposition to identity cards.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              122 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

ELECTION 2005: IN STORE TODAY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 31

LENGTH: 127 words


Gordon Brown delivers a speech on the economy in London, Tony Blair promotes the
Sure Start scheme for under-fives.

The Liberal Democrats will spell out their plans for the environment, arguing
that a 'green thread' runs through their programme for government.

David Willetts, the shadow Work and Pensions Secretary, focuses on the
Government's failings on pensions.

The United Kingdom Independence Party launches its manifesto. It is fighting 500
seats but, after Robert Kilroy-Silk's departure, needs to show that its success
in last year's Euro-elections was not a flash in the pan.

Michael Howard will spend all of the day visiting marginal seats across the
South-east, where his party hopes to gain up to 20 seats from the others.

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              123 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

WHY IS TONY BLAIR STAYING SILENT ON EUROPE WHEN THE TORY PLANS ARE SO LUDICROUS?

BYLINE: JOHANN HARI

SECTION: First Edition; COMMENT; Pg. 43

LENGTH: 1139 words


If you want to see the dozens of small ways a Labour government is better than
Tory rule, look for blank spaces. Remember the deadly 'winter crisis' that would
freeze the NHS every year? Gone, because Labour has tax-and-spent our hospitals
out of the abyss. Remember cardboard city, and streets lined with beggars? Gone,
because Labour has tax-and-spent the issue of homelessness away, slashing the
number of rough sleepers by two-thirds.

And remember the periodic outbursts of Hun-bashing, frog-thrashing xenophobia,
as a Tory minister would declare he was off to Brussels to slay the Euro-
dragon? Remember the 'beef wars' and the sense that Britain was a Europe- hating
freak, forever trashing the source of Europe's 50-year peace and prosperity?
Now, all this is only a blank space.

Nobody today talks about Britain wrenching itself out of Europe. Well, almost
nobody. Ignored by the press, the Tories now have the most vehemently
anti-European policies of any major party since Labour ditched its withdrawal
plans in 1983. This " in all seriousness " is their plan: at their first EU
summit, they will simply announce that they will never again belong to the
Common Fisheries Policy, the Social Chapter, or any common European immigration
regulations, and they will never sign up to an EU Constitution of any kind,
ever. Unpick the Treaty of Rome right now, Johnny Foreigner, or... or what?

John Redwood, the shadow Deregulation Minister, was asked about this a few weeks
ago " and he pointedly refused to rule out withdrawal. He's right " if the
Conservatives make these demands, they will have to threaten to leave. In the
end, either the Tories will have to break their core manifesto promises, or
Britain will be forced into the logic of withdrawal.

The Tory election campaign so far has been 'Hague " The Director's Cut', a new
version of the 2001 campaign with " crucially " Europe snipped from the picture.
The Tories know their Europe policies are vulnerable to even the most fleeting
scrutiny. (By the way, William Hague said in 2001 that 'after another term of
Labour government, Britain will be a foreign land'. Okay William " since this
isn't your country any more, hand in your passport and off you go.)

Below the political radar, the Tory party has been UKIPped. If the Tories are
ever returned to power without a drastic change in their policies, the summer of
2004 will turn out to have been a silent turning-point, not just for the party
but for the country. The surge of the United Kingdom Independence Party in the
European elections will be seen as the moment the Conservatives were nudged
beyond the point of political sanity . This isn't just my judgement. Nigel
Farage is one of UKIP's MEPs, and he has a vested electoral interest in saying
the Tories are not as hardline as UKIP. But even he says with a smile that it is
'interesting' to see the Tories 'talking for the first time about renegotiating
Britain's membership of the EU'.

Today, more than 30 Tory parliamentary candidates have included withdrawal from
the EU in their local manifestos " and Michael Howard has silently waved them
through. For example, the leaflets for Douglas Carswell, the Tory candidate for
Harwich, say: 'The EU doesn't know where to begin to solve Europe's problems.
That's because it is the problem ... Britain must be an independent country.'
One newspaper investigation has found that 70 per cent of Tory activists are in
favour of total withdrawal, and it seems they are selecting candidates who match
their prejudices.

The Tory pro-Europeans " Clarke, Heseltine, Heath " are old and can no longer
offer any counter-balance. The hardline Eurosceptics " once dubbed by John Major
as 'the Broadmoor wing of the Party' " have total control of Conservative
policy. (Britain's political debate is so shallow that Tory divisions are A Big
Story, but Tory unity behind a crazy policy isn't.)

But the Tories can only get away with such extraordinary policies because
pro-Europeans have allowed themselves to be bullied into silence by the
right-wing press. Britain's Europhile politicians have been " with a few
honourable exceptions " feeble. There was a bleak moment at Labour's manifesto
launch this week when Tony Blair was asked if he had given up on joining the
euro. There was a long, chilly silence. Blair looked to Brown and back again.
Tumbleweed floated past. 'I don't think anybody would say we should join the
euro right now,' said Blair at the start of a rambling answer that can be
summarised in one sentence: yes, I have given up.

Blair's Things-Can-Only-Get-Better commitment to challenge Europe-haters has now
shrivelled so far that many people close to him believe he actually wants the
French referendum to reject the European Constitution next month. A Gallic Non
would rescue him from a nasty, up-hill referendum campaign at home. Has it
really come to this? Hoping for the victory of Euroscepticism abroad so we can
avoid confronting Euroscepticism at home?

Roger Liddle, Blair's policy adviser on Europe from 1997 to 2004, warns that
'Labour cannot afford to let the case for Europe go by default'. He points to
the root of the problem: British pro-Europeans have failed to develop a new set
of arguments. The old Heathite case " that the EU prevents war " has been a
victim of its own success. Nobody expects Germany to bomb Poland, even if the EU
crumbled. But all we have found to replace this argument is a low drum-beat of
threats: leave Europe and we lose 3 million jobs. Leave Europe and you give a
victory to foul xenophobes. This is true enough, but it's not enough " where's
the pro-European carrot to accompany the stick?

Liddle tries to point pro-Europeanism in a new direction. He argues that the
best case for the EU comes from the centre-left " we must sell the EU as
offering a way for Britain to maintain its social democracy in an age of
globalisation. Do you want to milk the benefits from the global economy without
being relentlessly Bushed by business's demands for lower taxes and lower
spending? Do you want to maintain a strong welfare state and high public
spending? These are the things the British public wants, according to every
opinion poll: they are mainstream European social democrats, without accepting
the label. So look across the Channel: only the EU offers a way to 'mould global
capitalism in a social democratic way'. Only the EU offers a path leading away
from Texas.

But just as Blair is silent about his Government's social democratic policies at
home, he is silent about the social democratic potential of Europe. Today, he is
reduced to trying to fend off the most extreme Euroscepticism simply by changing
the subject, while the euro recedes into a hazy fog far beyond the horizon.

j.hari@independent.co.uk

LOAD-DATE: April 15, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              124 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

Lib Dem big birds gather to fight for new pecking order

BYLINE: Ben Macintyre

SECTION: Home news; 30

LENGTH: 637 words


A POLITICAL cockfight is under way in Orpington, a brutal, old-fashioned contest
between a Tory and a Liberal Democrat who have been pecking away at each other
for 13 years.

At the last election, just 269 votes separated John Horam, the Tory victor, from
Chris Maines, the Lib Dem challenger. This year they will fight it out for the
fourth time, with the Lib Dems convinced that they can finally knock the Tory
off his perch. Orpington would be a huge feather in Charles Kennedy's cap, but
failure here would mean, to continue the poultry theme, that the Lib Dems are
well and truly stuffed.

There is, as it happens, a famous breed of chicken called an Orpington, bred
here at the end of the 19th century when this part of South London was a rural
backwater in Kent. (The breeders' description of the Orpington sounds a little
like Charles Kennedy himself: "Body deep, broad and cobby (sic). Face smooth.

Wattles of medium length, rather oblong and nicely rounded at the bottom. Ear
lobes small and elongated." The Orpington is noted as a particularly good
breeder.) It is many years since anything other than good manners was bred in
Orpington, a suburb where London meets Kent, and the two main opposition parties
meet head to head: indeed, the contest is perhaps closer to bear-baiting than
cockfighting, with contenders competing in their efforts to savage Labour's
record.

Reflecting the importance of Orpington to the Lib Dem campaign plan, several of
the biggest birds in the party coop flocked here yesterday, on the day that the
party manifesto was released, to accompany Mr Maines, a Lib Dem councillor, as
he worked the high street. Here was Simon Hughes, the Lib Dem president, who is
standing for Southwark North & Bermondsey, and Lord Avebury, formerly Eric
Lubbock, who held the seat for the Liberals in the 1960s.

To judge from the response on the street, the Lib Dem manifesto themes find an
eager audience here, most notably the pledge to scrap tuition fees. "Many people
here went to college with help of grants," Mr Maines explained. "Now they see
their children having to pay for what they got for free."

Lib Dem promises of money for pensioners, free personal care for the elderly and
an end to council tax play well with older voters. The war in Iraq crops up
repeatedly. "It's a question of trust," Margaret O'Neill said, "I think the Lib
Dems will do it this time."

So do the Lib Dems. Orpington is second on its target list and it is symbolic:
the 1962 by-election victory here helped to undermine Macmillan.

"The tide is with us. I think we'll take Orpington, but if we lose here, we will
be doing badly elsewhere," Mr Hughes said, before diving into Woolworths to
scatter Mr Maines's campaign leaflets like confetti.

The repeat grudge-match perhaps explains why posters for the rivals are in
evidence all over town: inhabitants, it appears, simply take the old ones out
and stick them up again.

Mr Horam himself is an odd political animal, neither fish nor fowl: an MP for 35
years, he has represented Labour, the SDP and the Tories, in four
constituencies.

His parliamentary days may be numbered, for he has chipped away at the Tory
majority, reducing it from 13,000 in 1992, to 3,000 in 1997, to less than 300 in
2001.

"I hope he has nightmares about me," Mr Maines said.

If the Lib Dem campaign can take off anywhere, it is here. But in Orpington, the
Lib Dems are not counting their chickens before they hatch.

ORPINGTON:

* MP: John Horam since 1992

* 2001 result:

Conservatives 22,334

Liberal Democrat 22,065

Labour 5,517

UKIP 996

Majority: 269.

OTHER CANDIDATES:

Emily Bird (Labour).

Chris Maines (Lib Dem).

Mick Greenhough (UKIP).

John Horam, 66, has represented all three main parties.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              125 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

A tale of two elections: out of sight or out of your mind

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Home news; 32

LENGTH: 902 words


The three main parties are focusing on only a quarter of seats in this election.
Even in these marginals they are mainly concerned about voters identified as
potential 'switchers': the rest of us are less likely than ever to receive so
much as a leaflet. Two Times writers describe life on opposite sides of the
divide.

OOOOOOHH! Lucky me! I have had a personal letter from Gordon Brown. I don't
think he wrote to complain about one of my columns, because he calls me "Mary"
rather than "Mary Ann" and uses my married surname, by which I am listed on the
electoral register. But there is a lovely smiling picture of him at the top.

"After the Budget I wanted to write to you straight away," he begins. Bless!
Such a busy man, and the first thing he thought after he left the Commons
chamber was, "I must write to Mary Ann about this." I do feel privileged.

So do many of my neighbours, who received an identical letter. My husband
didn't, but maybe that is because the canvassers have him down as a diehard
Conservative.

Gordon gives me lots of happy news. "Together, we have come a long way since
1997," he gushes. I learn that he has "locked in this hard-won economic
stability". That's lucky; it might have escaped otherwise. And there is loads of
stuff about tax credits and winter fuel payments and free local bus travel for
pensioners.

What is more, Gordon wants to make my life so much easier. "We all lead busy
lives," he writes -don't we just! -so he encloses two postal vote application
forms ("pass the other form to a friend or relative") with ghoulish disembodied
faces of Margaret Thatcher, John Major and Michael Howard on the front just to
remind me which way to vote. "Don't go back," warns the slogan underneath.

To save me trouble, the forms do not need a stamp and are pre-addressed: to the
Labour Party itself.

Greg Hands, the Conservative candidate, wants to help me so much that you would
think he was standing for the local council, not for Westminster. His election
leaflets, which flutter regularly through my letterbox, tell me nothing about
the state of the economy, foreign policy or defence. But they do promise an
extra two carriages on the Edgware Road trains on the Wimbledon District Line
and he is going to deal with the rubbish blackspots around North End Road.
Great.

I am disappointed, though, that he has written personally to my neighbour and
not to me. He has even offered to deal with her postal vote application. These
political parties are so helpful, aren't they?

Our seat, Hammersmith & Fulham, is the most marginal seat in London, so it is
not surprising that we are being inundated with leaflets and letters. Recently a
bunch of hunt supporters was bused in to deliver 30,000 leaflets on behalf of Mr
Hands.

It is slightly more surprising, though, that neither we nor our neighbours have
yet received a single visit from a candidate or canvasser. For Mr Hands is a
very active man, or so his website would have us believe. He tells us, for
instance, that he recently addressed a meeting at All Saints' Church, Fulham, on
"Make Poverty History". It's funny, that, because my friends who were there tell
me that all he did was ask a question from the audience.

Our former MP, Iain Coleman, has had to step down because of illness and no one
I know has yet seen or heard from his successor as Labour candidate, Melanie
Smallman. Ken Livingstone turned up this week with some Labour activists and
joshed his way down the North End Road market while, on the other side of the
street, a group of young Tories tried to persuade shoppers to support Mr Hands.

There was some good-natured banter between the two sides.

Ms Smallman obviously has not had time to get her literature printed yet. We
have received only generic leaflets from Labour, like a copy of The Rose, a four
page tabloid that tells us how delighted Fred and Ivy Morris were with the
Budget and how tax cuts for hardworking families were good news for Mick and
Frances Keeshan and their three children.

The Tories, by contrast, are running the most local and personalised campaign
possible. Michael Howard makes no appearance on Mr Hands's leaflets, and even
the word Conservative is played down. This is more like the pavementpolitics
campaigning of the Liberal Democrats: literally, since we even read of Greg
Hands's action plan for cleaner streets, illustrated with a photo of
rubbish-strewn pavements on North End Road.

The Tories have also bought poster sites in the constituency and every day, as I
drive to work, I am asked, "Are you thinking what we're thinking?" Unless the
Conservatives are also wondering whether Melvyn Bragg's questions on In Our Time
could possibly get even longer or more convoluted, the answer is "No".

So the choice boils down to this. Do I want the graffiti cleaned off Ravenscourt
Park Tube station? Or do I want continued macroeconomic stability?

These two candidates might be fighting different elections. But one thing is for
sure: neither of them will leave me alone between now and May 5.

HAMMERSMITH & FULHAM:

MP: Iain Coleman since 1997 (standing down).

2001 RESULT:

Labour 19,801

Conservative 17,786

Lib Democrat 5,294

Majority 2,015

CANDIDATES:

Melanie Smallman (Lab).

Greg Hands (C).

Alan Bullion (Lib Dem).

Giles Fisher (UKIP).

Fiona Harrold (Green).


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              126 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

Off the Map

BYLINE: Simon Barnes

SECTION: Home news; 33

LENGTH: 975 words


YOU can't fool me. There's a general election going on, isn't there? You can't
keep things like that hidden from an investigative journalist like me. I dig for
facts: and then I come up with a scoop. So here it is: there's a general
election happening -even in Suffolk!

You know the way it is. I got a tip-off. So I made a few calls to the right
people, and before long, the whole story was mine to tell. Yes, there are
politicians out in Suffolk Coastal who probably wouldn't object too much if I
were to vote for them.

All this took a bit of finding out, mind. My village has not been the site of
stirring rallies, soap-box oratory, cheers, boos and partisanship. To the casual
glance, the big news is that they are still selling treacle at the post office,
the fancy grocer is still selling stuffed olives to weekenders, and the pub is
still serving Adnam's.

No leafleter has marched up my drive. No canvasser has called. I was canvassed
when I lived within the M25. A young fellow told me that he was awed to be
following in the footsteps of Cecil Parkinson. It's not his feet you want to
worry about, old son, I managed not to tell him.

But out here in this small village, part of a constituency of small villages,
there has been no chance for such ribaldry. Not one of my neighbours has a
poster up in the windows. You would have thought that at least there'd be one
saying: Oh Well, I Suppose We'll Get Gummer Again. For John Gummer,
Conservative, the former Minister for Agriculture and former Environment
Secretary, a man famous for beef and self-righteousness, is our local MP and
will be again on May 6.

The Conservatives told me that. It was information disguised as "sod off". At
the Olympic stadium in Athens, I was told: "You can't sit here. These places are
for proper athletics writers. Overspill and colour writers are back there
somewhere."

I rang up the Conservative Party eastern press office and was told: "I only deal
with marginals. Suffolk Coastal is not marginal."

We're not interested in voters from safe seats. We're here for proper voters.

Voters from safe seats are back there somewhere. The fate of the country is to
be decided by a few half-baked ditherers who, by some quirk of political fate,
happen to live in a constituency where their dithering matters.

Naturally, these are the only people the main parties are addressing. It's all
really nothing to do with me.

So I rang up the local Labour people. Surely they would care? I got a recorded
message: "This mailbox is full and cannot accept any messages." Readers can make
their own joke. I haven't got the heart. I caught up with the candidate
eventually: David Rowe, a county councillor. "What people want is a local man
they can trust," he said optimistically, ignoring the fact that we only get a
choice of politicians.

The Conservatives aren't interested in me because they are going to win, at
least in Suffolk Coastal, and Labour aren't interested in me because they're
going to lose. The Lib Dems are like a tie in a gentleman's outfit: no practical
function, but adding an air of respectability. The UK Independence Party is
there because we have nutters in Suffolk, the same as everywhere else. The Green
Party candidate tells the world that out east, we can also do doomed idealism.

The Craven meeting is on at Newmarket, on the other side of the county. The
races are all interesting: at least, none has a runner at 16-1 on. That's right:
if you bet on Labour, you must stake £16 if you want to win a pound. The
Conservatives are 7-1 against. The bookies don't think it's much of a contest:

not compared with the Craven Stakes.

But you can't blame the political journos for getting excited about a general
election. It's only once in four years that they can have the same sort of fun
as sportswriters have every week.

Someone told me that the difference between writing about sport and about
politics is that political writers write about people they like as if they
didn't like them, while sportswriters write about people they don't like as if
they did like them.

Perhaps. A clearer difference is the fact that in sport, people treat trivial
matters as if they were serious, while in party politics, people treat serious
matters as if they were trivial. So there I was, muttering away to myself like
the loony on the Tube when -to borrow a locution from my favourite book -who
should ring me up only John Gummer.

He was on his "battle bus", somewhere near Melton, but he was making his way
north and would be in my village tomorrow or the next day. And he was having a
completely different election: "I voted Labour last time. And I ain't gon' a do
that again. I'll be votin' for you, Mr Gummer." Mr Gummer can do a decent
Suffolk accent: it would be highly to his discredit if he couldn't. He's been MP
here since 1983.

He's been having a great response on the door-stepping stuff, talking about
council tax and health and immigration, and also, perhaps more crucially, about
whether or not we should build up the defences to keep the sea out. There are 74
miles of coast in this constituency, so it's a question worth asking.

"I'm not in favour of any form of managed retreat," Gummer said, relishing the
phrase.

That's consistent, anyway: his party continues to operate an unmanaged one.

SUFFOLK COASTAL:

MP: John Gummer since 1983

2001 RESULT:

Conservative 21,847

Labour 17,521

Liberal Democrat 9,192

Majority: 4,326

OTHER CANDIDATES:

David Rowe (Lab).

David Young (Lib Dem).

Richard Curtis (UKIP).

Paul Whitlow (Green).

* Contains most of Suffolk's coastline and is a popular area for retirement and
holiday homes

* Houses the port of Felixstowe, Sizewell nuclear plant and the seaside resorts
of Aldeburgh and Southwold


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              127 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

Seeking truth on a shoestring

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Home news; 35

LENGTH: 747 words


Robert-Kilroy Silk's Veritas party wants to end immigration before it runs out
of funds. Helen Rumbelow reports.

MANY have tried to knock Robert Kilroy-Silk's abundant confidence in the past
year. The BBC sacked him, the UK Independence Party would not let him take over
and, to his eyes, the entire metropolitan elite is in conspiracy against him.

All would be to varying degrees confounded to see this political Rasputin back
again, announcing his new party's general election manifesto, the burnished
walls of the Institution of Civil Engineers in Westminster reflecting his golden
glow.

Just as he was forced to quit his chat show for writing an article calling Arabs
"suicide bombers, limb amputators and women repressors", an unchastened Mr
Kilroy-Silk is still warming to his theme. Yesterday, framed by Veritas's regal
purple banners, he wanted to stop "vociferous Muslims telling us what we can
read, hear or say".

"We have to stop this nonsense that we all have to give respect to other
cultures.

We do not and we will not," he said. "It is actually called civilisation. We
haven't worked for generations to go back to the norms of a medieval village."

But what all his detractors, and Mr Kilroy-Silk particularly resented the
"liberal fascists" in the press, did not know was that he has an Achilles' heel
or, rather, a hole in his pocket.

The trajectory of his political career has been to join smaller and smaller
parties for smaller amounts of time. He began as a Labour MP for 12 years, then
last year became a MEP for the UKIP for five months and has now been a candidate
for his own party, Veritas, for three months.

Yet Veritas has failed to attract any big financial backers. The grand launch
was paid for out of a kitty supplied by Mr Kilroy-Silk and other Veritas
candidates.

He was, for Mr Kilroy-Silk, humble about the failure of his campaign to attract
funds. "We are desperately short of money," he said, almost a plea for sympathy
from the multimillionaire. "We'll probably lose some of our candidates because
they don't want to fight a campaign that's short of finance," he said.

In the past he has stated his reluctance to spend his fortune on his political
career, but dire straits have forced him to bankroll his campaign in Erewash,
Derbyshire.

"All of us will fight our campaigns on our own expenses. We had hoped for a
backer, that would have transformed the party," he said.

Meanwhile, Mr Kilroy-Silk is struggling to meet the threshold of 88 candidates
that will entitle him to a party political broadcast. "We are not beholden to
any man or woman waving a chequebook," he said.

"All this is done by amateurs," he said, gesturing to his manifesto and the
promotional trappings, quickly adding:

"Amateurs in the best sense of the word."

There seemed to be a hint of tension between the amateurs and the professional.

When asked if Veritas was a one-man show, Damian Hockney, his deputy, said: "We
put up spokesmen, but when we do that, all we get back is people asking for
Robert, because he is a celeb- rity, or famous, or whatever."

Mr Kilroy-Silk interjected: "We are not going to go there, because that's not
what we're about."

The emphasis of the Veritas manifesto is on ending all immigration and massively
reducing the number of asylum-seekers that Britain takes. Mr Kilroy-silk
displayed a copy of the Daily Mail to illustrate his point. Unlike the UKIP, its
policies are not all related in some way to both parties' founding principle of
withdrawal from the European Union.

The most eye-catching of all Veritas's populist measures is scrapping the tiered
tax system for a flat rate of tax at 22 per cent, an idea gaining ground in
Eastern European countries.

Mr Kilroy-Silk seemed more interested, however, in reheating the controversy
that led to the start of his career in fringe parties: attacks on Muslim
fundamentalism. Even this was with less of the enthusiasm he once had for
bashing "lesser" cultures and he seemed eager to return to his campaign in
Erewash, a Labour marginal.

The adulation he still commands on the street is where he draws his confidence
and, in a far-fetched but not impossible scenario, may draw his mandate for a
seat in Parliament at the next election.

"The objective evidence is that we cannot win," he said. "But people on the
streets say something different. I don't know if they are being kind to me, or
nice or polite."


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              128 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 15, 2005, Friday

Richard Jackson

SECTION: Home news; 37

LENGTH: 26 words


Richard Jackson, who is contesting York for UKIP, is a one-time soldier, fish
and chip shop owner, hotelier-turned-taxi driver and hypnotherapist.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              129 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                            April 14, 2005, Thursday

CAMPAIGN DIARY 2005

BYLINE: by Ben Fenton

SECTION: News Pg. 009

LENGTH: 399 words

In vino

Veritas begins its election campaign this morning. No, it's not an advertising
company.  No, it's not a cigarette brand.  It's a party with that bloke off the
telly, you know, with the dark skin, but doesn't seem to like Arabs. Wossisname?

Oh, yeah, Kilroy-Silk, that's the one.  But you can't blame us for not
remembering his name, because his own party didn't.

In its press release announcing the great launch, Veritas, founded by Robert
Kilroy-Silk and apparently his own vehicle for continuing a political career
after falling out with UKIP, did not mention the great man .

Only Damian Hockney, the "deputy leader", gets a nod on the release. Now, you
can see Labour not wanting to mention its leader, and Charlie Kennedy has a
decent excuse for disappearing, but Veritas isn't really known for anything
except Wossisname.  "He will be there, definitely," said his aide.  "It's just
that we put the press release out in a great hurry."

We are sure the leader will be very forgiving.

Rantings ratings.

Do you know where your remote control is?

A good 300,000 people fewer could find theirs when the Conservative party
election broadcast went out on Tuesday night compared with the Labour effort 24
hours earlier.

As 9.6 million failed to locate the doofer for the Gordon and Tony show when it
was shown simultaneously on BBC1 and ITV1, 9.9 million couldn't react fast
enough for Mr Howard and his ordinary Tory supporters.

Around the course again.  "This [Labour] manifesto will do nothing to dispel
concern in the countryside that the sort of prejudiced, discriminatory
legislation that was imposed on rural people in the last parliament could be
repeated in the next." - Simon Hart, chief executive of the Countryside
Alliance, after Labour omitted earlier promises not to restrict shooting and
angling.

Bombs away.  "Today you have seen the IMF drop a tax bombshell on Labour."
Michael Howard reacting gleefully to a report that throws questions over Tony
Blair's tax and spending plans.

Catching the worms.  "This is not the way to ensure a favourable press."

Journalist overheard murmuring at the news that the Liberal Democrats will again
start their campaigning at 7.30am.

You said it.  "Both my parents were actors, so for me performing is a real gift
which gives endless pleasure to people."

Cherie Blair encourages young performance artists.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              130 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 14, 2005

Election 2005: Keeping it simple, pressing all the buttons: Howard In Cardiff,
Torbay, and Kettering, the Tory leader is polishing a common touch

BYLINE: Ed Vulliamy

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 7

LENGTH: 1125 words


Michael Howard's team arrive in Wales like little blue men from outer space,
landing in a country where the party holds not a single seat. It seems not so
much a case of "take us to your leader" as: "Is there anybody out there who will
vote for ours?"

Mr Howard had begun the week - Monday - launching his national manifesto in
London, proceeded to Glasgow to fanfare a Scottish edition and now arrived in
Cardiff to do likewise, in one of Labour's red belts. In the hinterland of the
Welsh capital are seats such as Blaenau Gwent, once held by Michael Foot and
Aneurin Bevan, with a Labour majority of 19,313.

So Wales does not look easy for Mr Howard, even though he was born and raised in
Llanelli - a battleground between Labour and Plaid Cymru. His speech is preceded
by a video about how his vision is shaped by the "hopes and dreams" of people he
has met up and down the country. And yet he arrives, speaks in and leaves
Cardiff without meeting a single person who is not an activist or official of
what after the last election seemed to be an endangered species, the Welsh
Conservative party.

In the bustle of the capital, the Tory leader's visit goes largely unnoticed.
"Oh, he's coming is he?" shrugs Michael Evans taking a break from his job as an
electrician (he was once a young miner, now re-trained). "There's still a
bitterness against the Tories in Wales," he says, "from the days of the strike,
and steel closures." His home town of Pontypridd, he says, is now home to a
mining theme museum. But, says one of the spruce young advance team from central
office, it's all about "fluidity". Even parts of Wales, insists the aide, are up
for grabs. "More young people are joining the Conservatives than any other
party," claims assemblywoman Laura Jones. "And a lot of ladies are coming back.
They trust Howard; with him, you don't get cheesy spin."

It is with the words "prynhawn da" - good afternoon - that Mr Howard begins his
speech. "I owe so much to Wales. My parents came from an ordinary family. My
parents ran a clothes shop in Llanelli."

Here the essence of his campaign over the coming weeks is laid down: simple
ideas that play on simple fears and aspirations. "So if you think crime's too
high, immigration is out of control and Mr Blair has hit you with too many
stealth taxes, then you need to send him a very clear message: enough is
enough."

"Very good," reacted Cardiff councillor Jim Burns. "Pressed all the right
buttons."

Mr Howard boards his helicopter for a flight over the West Country. This is a
complex political tapestry, one of the few areas of the country where all three
parties seriously contend, and the most Euro-paranoid place in Britain. Ukip
polled 22.6% here in the 2004 European elections, votes Mr Howard needs to win
back.

Next stop is Torbay, lost to the Liberal Democrats in 1997. The shopping centre
junction at which Fleet Street and Union Walk meet was going about its business
as usual on Tuesday morning, apart from the clutch of media and Conservative
faithful on the pavement, and young central office operatives on their
walkie-talkies. Mr Howard's big white bus grinds into position outside Tesco,
and he emerges with his biggest asset, Sandra, at his side.

It takes all the effort that Richard Clark from central office operations
department can muster to force a wedge through the media and party faithful and
get his leader anywhere near the voting public. "Hello there!" He grabs Joe
Williams by the hand and moves on. What did you think of him, Joe? "Not a lot.
He shook my hand, he'll shake anyone's."

"Hello! Are you going to be voting Tory?" Mr Howard now asks David Fitchett.
"Definitely, yes."

The Conservative leader walks alongside Paul Jones talking about taxes, but Mr
Jones wants to ask about 5,000 jobs being lost at the Bookham's fibre optics
factory in Paignton, which is upping sticks to China. "I get laid off in
September," Mr Jones says, once Mr Howard has moved on. Who will he vote for?
"At the moment, no one. I don't think anyone has our interests at heart." But if
there is one thing that unites the people Mr Howard gladhands in Torbay it is
their view on immigration. "All this immigration business, it's outrageous,"
says Cynthia Cole.

"They've driven us out of Wigan," says John Singleton, with his wife Sandra,
looking to buy a hotel in the area. "We bought two flats and had to sell them
because of all the immigrants. It's excellent to be here down south."

"Immigration is an issue I feel very strongly about," says Tony Scott, on
holiday from Suffolk. "And he's the first person since Enoch Powell to talk
about it honestly."

On now - trailing Mr Howard's helicopter by road - to the area which many say
could decide the election, the marginal-strewn Midlands, and the market town of
Rothwell in the target constituency of Kettering, held by Labour with a majority
of 665. This is country Mr Howard can win. "It's high on the list," says one of
the central office aides, "else we wouldn't be here."

A rally in Rothwell's market square with its church, quaint council offices and
Conservative club flying the Union flag is a test for his common touch. He
alights from the bus in shirtsleeves, is greeted by hecklers, and responds in
kind: "There's a person over there with a Labour poster. Well, if you agree with
a policy of letting people out of prison to commit more crimes, then you're
right to vote Labour!"

It is not quite John Major on a soapbox, but it is getting more combative.
Cardiff may have been calmer, but the language is the same: simple, intended for
everyman. "I want these yobs to be afraid of the police!" Loud cheers. "It's not
right to have special rules for people like the Travellers who stick two fingers
up to the law."

He ends his speech and departs from the plan, by making his way through the
crowd to the Conservative club across the square. The police, who have been
searching rubbish bins all morning, now make videotapes of everyone. The central
office minders get edgy. "When Michael says he wants to go through the crowd,
it's a nightmare for us," says one official from the operations department who
asks not to be named. "But at least it's raw stuff, not pre-packaged on
Millbank."

Mr Howard departs in the Jag, the square empties and young people he might call
"yobs" resume their evening perches, mooching about noisily and doing wheelies
on their bikes. In his speech, he got the name of the town wrong, calling it
Rotherham, but is easily forgiven.

"Oh yes, I think he is the right man," says one of his listeners, Ursula Jones.
"There's no point in spinning things. We just want to know what is happening,
and he is telling us just that."


LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              131 of 175 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 14, 2005

Election briefing: He's back

LENGTH: 830 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to Guardian Unlimited's free daily election briefing.


Welcome to Guardian Unlimited's free daily election briefing.

Today: Kennedy returns to launch the Lib Dem manifesto, Howard attacks Blair
over the London ricin plot and Robert Kilroy-Silk "says what you think" in his
Veritas manifesto

>>> AT A GLANCE ...

Michael Howard seized the opportunity of his scheduled press conference on the
virtues of synthetic phonics to blame Kamel Bourgass' presence in the UK on Tony
Blair's immigration policies. "He was one of the quarter of a million failed
asylum seekers living in Britain today who should have been deported," he told
reporters. Labour retaliated by accusing the Tories of "flip-flopping" on ID
cards.

Charles Kennedy was back this morning to launch the Lib Dems' manifesto.
Refusing to say whether he had mastered nappy-changing, Mr Kennedy admitted that
he could have slept better. Reporters wanted to know how much the party's
proposed local income tax would cost an average family: it was impossible to say
because the amount would vary from council to council, Matthew Taylor replied,
but around half the population would be pay less than before.

More on these stories

>>> WHO'S WHERE

Michael Howard outlined the Conservatives education policy in London this
morning, before leaving for Gloucester and then Yarm in the north east.

Tony Blair has been addressing business leaders in London's Docklands, while
Gordon Brown is campaigning in Kent.

Charles Kennedy, who returned to the fray this morning to launch the Lib Dem
manifesto, will be visiting an adult education centre in the New Forest this
afternoon.

Robert Kilroy-Silk has been "saying what you think" at the Veritas manifesto
launch in Westminster.

>>> QUOTES OF THE DAY

"We're keeping the baby out of politics." - Charles Kennedy.

"Tony Blair's third election manifesto is also his resignation letter and his
political obituary." - Sun editorial

"There is a popular myth in Westminster which probably reflects the salaries MPs
and journalists are on. The typical income for households is just over £20,000 a
year. Whilst we understand in the circles that we operate, people think incomes
of £100,000-plus are common, I'm afraid that the people who watch your
television programmes and read your newspapers are having to struggle in a
rather different world." - Lib Dem chairman Matthew Taylor defends the party's
50% tax rate for earnings over £100,000.

"It's not rocket science." - The Conservatives' education spokesman, Tim
Collins, on synthetic phonics.

>>> WHAT THE PAPERS ARE SAYING

Guardian: "The grown-up reaction to the launch is not to sneer but to welcome
the leadership back to where it should have been all along"

FT: "Labour's promises would take taxation and public spending back to the
levels of the 1980s ... One way or another, more tax will be paid - much of it
by business"

Guardian: Jackie Ashley - "This is a properly written paperback book. ... So
many good things are on offer that it's a disappointment to find they're not
promising free daffodils for every living room. ...It has been a long road. But
Labour is back"

Sun: "Blair still has a big job to do before his place in history is guaranteed"

Telegraph: Boris Johnson - "We are being asked to vote for Blair, with the
subliminal reassurance that he will at some stage step aside and make way for
the older man. It is an outrageous deceit, not just because Brown is a
high-taxing, interfering, over-regulating zealot, but because he is a Scot"

Mail: "There is no real vision in this curiously flat document, nothing remotely
new ... it can be summed up in one word: tax"

Times: "This is, overall, a workmanlike tome which appears fearful of passion"

Telegraph: "The overall impression was of a government that has run out of
ideas, but retains its driving desire to tell us how to live, what to eat and
how to bring up our children"

Independent: "For us, there are two particular disappointments: the low priority
given to the green issues ... and the distinctly lukewarm embrace of Europe."

Mirror: Kevin Maguire - Chairman Tony's Little Red Book is as detailed as the
Conservative manifesto is vague ... Political malcontents who moan there are no
dividing lines between the parties ... had better shut up to avoid sounding
stupid."

>> LATEST POLLS

Guardian/ICM: Lab 39 Con 33 LD 21 (Lab lead 6%)

Further evidence that Ukip is looking like a spent force: only 3% of voters cite
Europe as the most important issue when deciding how to vote.

>>> ELECTIONS PAST

Michael White remembers the last time Labour launched a little red book.

>>> FROM OUR ELECTION BLOG

Polly Toynbee on why you should hold your nose and vote Labour, Alan Travis asks
whether Michael Howard is right to attack Blair over the London ricin plot and
Ros Taylor reports on Robert Kilroy-Silk's manifesto launch.

>>> ON TV AND RADIO TONIGHT

8.30pm, Radio 4: Analysis

The effect of the big privatisations of the 1980s and 1990s.

10.45pm, BBC1: Question Time

With Ruth Kelly, Liam Fox, Menzies Campbell, comedian David Baddiel and
journalist Janet Daley.

LOAD-DATE: April 14, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              132 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 14, 2005, Thursday

Hope and hatred in the heart of England

BYLINE: Mary Ann Sieghart

SECTION: Home news; 35

LENGTH: 852 words


IF ANY seat could be seen as a microcosm of England, it is Birmingham Edgbaston.

Demographically, its four wards almost exactly mirror the country as a whole -
from its mansions in Edgbaston, through the leafy streets of Harborne and the
modest terraced houses in Quinton, to the council estates of Bartley Green.

Bartley Green has one of the highest rates of single mothers in the country,
while Edgbaston, with its cricket ground and huge detached houses, is
Birmingham's most desirable place to live. In Harborne, you find academics and
professionals. In Quinton live semi-skilled workers who turned to Margaret
Thatcher in the 1980s but have mainly returned to Labour.

When Gisela Stuart became the first Labour MP for Birmingham Edgbaston, one of
the earliest results on May 1, 1997, it became clear that Labour was going to
win a landslide. But in 2001, this popular German MP increased her majority in
an election when most seats saw a small swing away from Labour.

Now she is fighting a woman Conservative candidate, Deirdre Alden, which means
that the constituency is bound to continue to return a woman MP -something that
it has managed to do in every election since Dame Edith Pitt won the seat 52
years ago. The main national issue that comes up most is immigration.

Jacqueline Howell, 57, who lives in a rented house, could easily have been cast
as Vicky Pollard's gran in Little Britain. With a cigarette drooping from her
fingers, most of her front teeth missing and standing in her stockinged feet,
she lets loose.

"If I had my way," she insists, "I'd take a gun and shoot Tony Blair. He's a
waste of space." Soon she adds George Bush and Camilla Parker Bowles to the
death squad line-up. "Put the three of them together and you've got a trio!

"I think your policies on immigration could swing it for you," she tells Mrs
Alden. "If I was an immigrant, they'd give us a nice big house and a car and a
mobile phone. This country is solely and purely for the immigrants. We may as
well pack up and leave."

"Yes," agrees Mrs Alden. "We're being swamped."

Mrs Howell is cross about the local post office closing because it means she has
to go to another one, and "I don't like the Asian lady there".

"Nothing would persuade me to vote Labour," she avers. But is this a Labour
convert to the Conservatives? No, it turns out Mrs Howell has been voting Tory
ever since Margaret Thatcher was leader.

All the voters who complained about foreigners during our canvass were already
solidly Conservative. Norma Mason, for instance, 59, a lifelong Tory, claimed
that the French were paying asylum-seekers to come to Britain.

"My 90-year-old mother just had to pay £400 for a new set of choppers. Then you
get asylum-seekers coming in and getting everything. It isn't fair."

Go to the much more deprived parts of the constituency, though, and it's a
different story. Canvassing with Gisela Stuart at the gates of Welsh House Farm
School, surrounded by council houses and flats, we chat to (mainly) single
mothers waiting for their children to emerge.

A few are completely disillusioned, like Ciara O'Reilly, who says: "This
country's gone downhill big time in the past few years. I don't like Tony Blair.
The Government make promises that they don't keep." Overweight and smoking
furiously (the ground by the school gates is littered with fag ends), she talks
of her "death trap" tower block, where she has been burgled five times. It turns
out that she has never voted and won't this time.

Philip Rogers, a 30-year-old, almost toothless dad with four kids, insists that
"I'd vote for anyone as long as Tony Blair gets out. He's the one that started
all the trouble with the Iraqis." But then he admits that he'll probably vote
Labour anyway. "Labour have promised more help for the hospitals and the Tories
haven't."

Finally there appears a textbook Labour success story. At the last election,
28-year-old Michelle Clulee was visited by a canvasser who was so shocked by the
state of her flat -damp had penetrated all the walls -that she sent a Labour
councillor round to help.

"I'm now set up in a new house," the mum of three tells me, beaming. "I'm taking
an NVQ 2 in early years, I've got my kids in a creche and I'm going to be a
teaching assistant. Later this year, I'm getting married." Before, she says, "I
didn't see a future."

Having not been too sure about Labour, she is now certain to support the party.

"What I like about Labour is they care for all kinds of people, from the bottom
to the top -not like the Conservatives."

It sounds like a scripted line from a party election broadcast. "How much did
you pay her?" I whisper to Mrs Stuart afterwards. She swears blind the outburst
was spontaneous. I think I believe her.

* BIRMINGHAM EDGBASTON

MP: Gisela Stuart since 1997 2001 result

Labour 18,517

Conservatives 13,819

Liberal Democrats 4,528

Majority 4,698

OTHER CANDIDATES

Deidre Alden (Conservative)

Mike Dixon (Liberal Democrat) Peter Beck (Green) Stephen White (UK Independence
Party)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              133 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 13, 2005

Rumble of thunder down in Brick Lane

BYLINE: Sketch Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 591 words


The nastiest constituency fight in the election looks set to be at Bethnal Green
and Bow, where the Labour MP Oona King is defending her seat against "Gorgeous"
George Galloway, founder and star candidate of Respect, for whom he plays the
same role as Robert Kilroy-Silk once did in Ukip, only with a deeper, richer
tan.

There is always a whiff of sulphur in the air when George is about. He seems to
be permanently rebutting swirling allegations of fraud against himself or making
them against others.

Yesterday you could almost hear the rumbling thunder and feel the heat of the
lava as he strode into a hall near the constituency. He had a dramatic
statement. Labour were guilty of postal vote malpractice, and if they weren't,
they had come very close. Respect had discovered a letter sent to voters by Ms
King. She had enclosed the application form for a postal ballot - printed so you
could send it, not to the returning officer, but straight to the Labour party.
They would kindly take care of it.

The Kray twins used to operate in this same area, and, I paraphrase Mr Galloway,
Labour's scheme resembled their famous offers of "protection". These were less
helpful than they seemed.

George is the very maestro of controlled fury. His fuse is always short and it
is always fizzing. Ms King's letter had "taken my breath away". Labour was
"desperate". What they had done was "close to illegal - if not illegal".

"Postal votes have a habit of sticking to New Labour's hands. That is not an
allegation, it is a proven legal fact!"

The fury inside was banked, but it began to smoulder dangerously. Police sealed
off the area, or should have done. "It begins with this, and it ends in a
warehouse, with New Labour apparatchiks sitting round and filling in voting
papers!"

When he was asked about Ms King's own allegation, that Respect workers were
telling people to vote against her because she is Jewish, his rage began to
smoke and bubble.

Reprehensible! Foul! Pernicious! Unsubstantiated! Unsustainable! Without a
scintilla of proof! You can tell when a politician is angry; he starts using
words you never hear in normal speech. As he spat and crackled, nervous
geologists noticed the scorched trees. The ground shook as though Bigfoot were
out looking for food.

Two hours later he had calmed down enough to canvass in Brick Lane, vulpine in
black suit, silver hair, gold tie and bronze skin. He looked like a walking sari
shop, even more colourful than the street itself, which is a riot of neon
restaurants, sweet shops, clothes stores and even the Hookah Lounge, which he
kindly entered for the snappers, but which turned out to sell nothing more
exotic than tea and organic curry.

And it has to be said that a lot of the people he met are going to vote for him.
Often, when asked, they would reply "of course!" You'd get the same reaction
from someone in Barbour and brogues asked if he was a Tory.

"He is a man of most brilliant character," said a Bengali chap offering
cranio-sacral therapy, whatever that is.

"He talks truth," said one elderly man. Both received a sort of kiss-cum-hug on
the neck from the candidate, like a buss from a friendly vampire.

We caught up with Ms King at the celebrated Museum of Childhood, in a room
decorated by jolly hippos and crocodiles. She and her aides wearily dismissed
the fraud allegations. They had always done it this way. There was a code of
conduct which they always followed.

End of story - but not while Mr Galloway is still smoking.


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              134 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 13, 2005

Race for power: As the political parties square up for the May 5 showdown,
Malcolm Dean considers the key battlegrounds, while leaders from across the
public service sector consider the government's record and state their
priorities for the incoming administration

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1051 words


All elections contain predictable and unpredictable elements. One of the most
predictable was that a Conservative party facing a historic third election
defeat in a row would turn to desperate measures, including the race card.

Ignore the ingratiating justifications from Michael Howard on why his party's
hardline policies on asylum and immigration require serious debate. Remember,
instead, Andrew Lansley, Conservative MP and former election strategist,
enthusing in his interview in the run-up to the 2001 election that immigration
played well in 1992 and the Euro elections two years later and still had "the
potential to hurt".

Or remember Liam Fox, Tory co-chair, reported last September to have declared
the key issue to woo Ukip (UK Independence Party) voters back was immigration
and asylum.

Hence the party's already hardline policies were ratcheted up last year to the
delight of the tabloids. "Why Howard had to speak out" (Mail), "Honest talk"
(Sun), "Time to close the gates" (Express). But so, in response, were Labour's
policies. Tony Blair demanded arbitrary cuts - in breach of the 1951 Geneva
convention - of asylum numbers that have seen a 70% fall from the October 2002
peak. The sanest voice was the Liberal Democrat spokesman who declared that
asylum "should be based on the international situation, not the government's
reaction to tabloid hysteria".

Crime and tax are two other predictable Tory themes. But they have faced
difficulties on both fronts. Crime has declined dramatically with the two
biggest categories - burglary and car theft - down by 40% since 1997. True,
there is an increase in violent crime, but these figures have been inflated by
more accurate recording methods. This has not stopped the Conservatives using
them, though this earned them a severe reprimand from chief constables earlier
this month for "selective use" that could increase the fear of crime.

One policy area where all three main parties have closed their eyes to serious
reform is penal affairs. Despite the largest sustained fall in crime for more
than a century, the prisons have never been fuller. A prison population that
took four decades to increase by 11,000 to 1991, increased by 25,000 in the
following decade.

In terms of drug law reform, the Lib Dems have the most progressive approach -
endorsing the main thrust of the independent Runciman inquiry, on harmfulness of
drugs, that reported in 2000 - but they appear to be keeping this sensible
approach hidden in the current election campaign, perhaps for fear of tabloid
assault.

On tax, there have been plenty of increases, including several stealthy ones for
the Tories to attack as well as a 1% rise in national insurance to finance the
record level of NHS investment. But for some families with children, these rises
have been more than compensated for by increases to tax credits. According to
this year's budget, 3 million of the 7 million families with children now
receive more in tax credit and child benefit than they pay in income tax. By
2007, a family with two children earning £25,000 a year will have an effective
income tax rate of 6% and, at £30,000, just 10% when benefits are included.
Labour must also draw support from polls that still show the public putting
public service improvements ahead of tax cuts.

A major redistribution has taken place to the poorest people - children and
pensioners. Most of the extra £11bn a year spent on pensioners has gone to the
bottom 40% - some 4 million - lifting almost half above the poverty line. The 4
million children in poverty have been given less, but ministers still insist 1
million (along with their parents) will be lifted out of poverty by the end of
this year with another 1 million by 2010. Stand back for this programme being
the first to be dropped should there be a Tory victory. Howard, unlike his two
predecessors, has avoided all talk of "compassionate conservatism".

But if poor and average income families have been protected, so have the better
off. In the past decade average earnings for British employees grew by 45% but
for the bosses of Britain's biggest companies, the rise was six times as large.
In two decades, the richest 1% have seen their share of total income double from
6.5% to 13% - yet still Labour refuses to lift the top rate above 40%. The Lib
Dem proposal to apply 50% to earnings over £100,000 would raise more than £5bn
and help make the UK a fairer society. Even Margaret Thatcher maintained 60% for
her first nine years.

Labour can be proud of its achievements in the NHS - record investment, higher
clinical standards, shorter waiting lists and new attention to the biggest
patient group, the 17 million suffering from chronic diseases, including the
mentally ill. Perhaps the government's biggest success is that the Tories have
declared that they will invest just as much over the next five years, though
more than £1bn would be lost by their "passport" policy that would fund half the
cost of private hospital treatment for those who already pay to go private.
There would also be no targets at all.

Even so, uncertainties remain. The government's payments by results - money
following patients - will receive Tory support but its effects remain uncertain.
At the very least it will cause some serious instability.

Uncertainties remain in social services and housing. It is still not clear how
child protection will work out under the new umbrella covering all children's
needs. The service still faces chronic shortages of social workers and has lost
some of its most experienced directors. Services for the even larger client
group - older people - are being restructured, but we are still a long way from
a properly integrated health and social care system. Housing has been the
hardest squeezed service of all in the last two decades. The rise in homeless
families should not be a surprise. It is not just more private homes that are
needed but more social housing, as Shelter's Adam Sampson sets out, in the
wishlists of charities and public service chiefs on the next three pages.

Malcolm Dean is the Guardian's leader writer on social policy.

Alien territory: a family of asylum seekers in Glasgow Photograph: Murdo MacLeod

Hardliner: Michael Howard


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              135 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 13, 2005

Carry on claiming - MEPs reject curbs on perks and pensions

BYLINE: David Gow in Brussels

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 1

LENGTH: 463 words


The European parliament's 732 MEPs were yesterday accused of endorsing virtual
embezzlement after throwing out proposals to control their allowances and
pension pots.

The MEPs, meeting in Strasbourg, rejected in a series of votes any public
control or scrutiny of their generous expenses, including plans to post their
office allowances on the internet and ban the use of parliamentary funds to pay
back their private pension contributions.

Chris Davies, the Liberal Democrat MEP who has led a campaign to reform the
allowances system, said the latter was "tantamount to embezzlement". British
MEPs of all parties overwhelmingly voted for the reforms but were outgunned by a
combination of Christian Democrats and socialists, together with poorly paid
MEPs from new EU countries.

Conservatives, Labour, Liberal Democrats, Ukip and others voted for the reforms,
including fines and suspension for gross financial irregularities, but the
Labour MEPs Eluned Morgan and Stephen Hughes voted against some, while Robert
Kilroy-Silk, the former Ukip member, abstained.

The votes, largely 3-2 against reform, are likely to reinforce the impression
among Europe's 450 million citizens that the parliament is a gravy train for
politicians and that the EU is a byword for slack financial controls and even
corruption.

MEPs' basic salaries range from upwards of euros 12,000 (£8,200) a month in
Italy, the highest-paid, to euros 800 a month in Lithuania and Estonia, with
Britain's 78 earning the same as MPs at Westminster - £57,485 a year. MEPs have
a more generous pension scheme than MPs, with around two-thirds (485) opting
into a special European parliament fund which pays in double the £664 a month
the MEPs themselves contribute.

In addition, they get a Brussels-Strasbourg allowance of around £180 a day
(depending on exchange rates) towards accommodation and subsistence costs, but
they have to sign in to register their pres ence. They have banned TV crews from
filming this daily "ceremony", especially on non-working days.

The MEPs yesterday also voted 354-264 against plans to rein in their travel
costs, set under a system pre-dating the rise of low-cost airlines. Mr Davies
said the arrangement enabled some MEPs to make a tax-free surplus of £10,000 a
year. One disgruntled political official, who asked not to be named, said: "I'm
not going to defend the indefensible, but we need absolute clarity about the
upfront figures before any legal assessment of the proposals."

Mr Davies and other reformers are pressing Luxembourg, current holders of the EU
presidency, to come up with fresh proposals. He said: "Some shout that it's
beneath the dignity of a parliamentarian to keep receipts or have a public
scrutiny of their spending."


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              136 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 13, 2005

Election 2005: Sketch: Rumble of thunder down in Brick Lane

BYLINE: Simon Hoggart

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 591 words


The nastiest constituency fight in the election looks set to be at Bethnal Green
and Bow, where the Labour MP Oona King is defending her seat against "Gorgeous"
George Galloway, founder and star candidate of Respect, for whom he plays the
same role as Robert Kilroy-Silk once did in Ukip, only with a deeper, richer
tan.

There is always a whiff of sulphur in the air when George is about. He seems to
be permanently rebutting swirling allegations of fraud against himself or making
them against others.

Yesterday you could almost hear the rumbling thunder and feel the heat of the
lava as he strode into a hall near the constituency. He had a dramatic
statement. Labour were guilty of postal vote malpractice, and if they weren't,
they had come very close. Respect had discovered a letter sent to voters by Ms
King. She had enclosed the application form for a postal ballot - printed so you
could send it, not to the returning officer, but straight to the Labour party.
They would kindly take care of it.

The Kray twins used to operate in this same area, and, I paraphrase Mr Galloway,
Labour's scheme resembled their famous offers of "protection". These were less
helpful than they seemed.

George is the very maestro of controlled fury. His fuse is always short and it
is always fizzing. Ms King's letter had "taken my breath away". Labour was
"desperate". What they had done was "close to illegal - if not illegal".

"Postal votes have a habit of sticking to New Labour's hands. That is not an
allegation, it is a proven legal fact!"

The fury inside was banked, but it began to smoulder dangerously. Police sealed
off the area, or should have done. "It begins with this, and it ends in a
warehouse, with New Labour apparatchiks sitting round and filling in voting
papers!"

When he was asked about Ms King's own allegation, that Respect workers were
telling people to vote against her because she is Jewish, his rage began to
smoke and bubble.

Reprehensible! Foul! Pernicious! Unsubstantiated! Unsustainable! Without a
scintilla of proof! You can tell when a politician is angry; he starts using
words you never hear in normal speech. As he spat and crackled, nervous
geologists noticed the scorched trees. The ground shook as though Bigfoot were
out looking for food.

Two hours later he had calmed down enough to canvass in Brick Lane, vulpine in
black suit, silver hair, gold tie and bronze skin. He looked like a walking sari
shop, even more colourful than the street itself, which is a riot of neon
restaurants, sweet shops, clothes stores and even the Hookah Lounge, which he
kindly entered for the snappers, but which turned out to sell nothing more
exotic than tea and organic curry.

And it has to be said that a lot of the people he met are going to vote for him.
Often, when asked, they would reply "of course!" You'd get the same reaction
from someone in Barbour and brogues asked if he was a Tory.

"He is a man of most brilliant character," said a Bengali chap offering
cranio-sacral therapy, whatever that is.

"He talks truth," said one elderly man. Both received a sort of kiss-cum-hug on
the neck from the candidate, like a buss from a friendly vampire.

We caught up with Ms King at the celebrated Museum of Childhood, in a room
decorated by jolly hippos and crocodiles. She and her aides wearily dismissed
the fraud allegations. They had always done it this way. There was a code of
conduct which they always followed.

End of story - but not while Mr Galloway is still smoking.


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              137 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 13, 2005

Society: Race for power: As the political parties square up for the May 5
showdown, Malcolm Dean considers the key battlegrounds, while leaders from
across the public service sector consider the government's record and state
their priorities for the incoming administration

BYLINE: Malcolm Dean

SECTION: Guardian Society Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1032 words


All elections contain predictable and unpredictable elements. One of the most
predictable was that a Conservative party facing a historic third election
defeat in a row would turn to desperate measures, including the race card.

Ignore the ingratiating justifications from Michael Howard on why his party's
hardline policies on asylum and immigration require serious debate. Remember,
instead, Andrew Lansley, Conservative MP and former election strategist,
enthusing in his interview in the run-up to the 2001 election that immigration
played well in 1992 and the Euro elections two years later and still had "the
potential to hurt".

Or remember Liam Fox, Tory co-chair, reported last September to have declared
the key issue to woo Ukip (UK Independence Party) voters back was immigration
and asylum.

Hence the party's already hardline policies were ratcheted up last year to the
delight of the tabloids. "Why Howard had to speak out" (Mail), "Honest talk"
(Sun), "Time to close the gates" (Express). But so, in response, were Labour's
policies. Tony Blair demanded arbitrary cuts - in breach of the 1951 Geneva
convention - of asylum numbers that have seen a 70% fall from the October 2002
peak. The sanest voice was the Liberal Democrat spokesman who declared that
asylum "should be based on the international situation, not the government's
reaction to tabloid hysteria".

Crime and tax are two other predictable Tory themes. But they have faced
difficulties on both fronts. Crime has declined dramatically with the two
biggest categories - burglary and car theft - down by 40% since 1997. True,
there is an increase in violent crime, but these figures have been inflated by
more accurate recording methods. This has not stopped the Conservatives using
them, though this earned them a severe reprimand from chief constables earlier
this month for "selective use" that could increase the fear of crime.

One policy area where all three main parties have closed their eyes to serious
reform is penal affairs. Despite the largest sustained fall in crime for more
than a century, the prisons have never been fuller. A prison population that
took four decades to increase by 11,000 to 1991, increased by 25,000 in the
following decade.

In terms of drug law reform, the Lib Dems have the most progressive approach -
endorsing the main thrust of the independent Runciman inquiry, on harmfulness of
drugs, that reported in 2000 - but they appear to be keeping this sensible
approach hidden in the current election campaign, perhaps for fear of tabloid
assault.

On tax, there have been plenty of increases, including several stealthy ones for
the Tories to attack as well as a 1% rise in national insurance to finance the
record level of NHS investment. But for some families with children, these rises
have been more than compensated for by increases to tax credits. According to
this year's budget, 3 million of the 7 million families with children now
receive more in tax credit and child benefit than they pay in income tax. By
2007, a family with two children earning £25,000 a year will have an effective
income tax rate of 6% and, at £30,000, just 10% when benefits are included.
Labour must also draw support from polls that still show the public putting
public service improvements ahead of tax cuts.

A major redistribution has taken place to the poorest people - children and
pensioners. Most of the extra £11bn a year spent on pensioners has gone to the
bottom 40% - some 4 million - lifting almost half above the poverty line. The 4
million children in poverty have been given less, but ministers still insist 1
million (along with their parents) will be lifted out of poverty by the end of
this year with another 1 million by 2010. Stand back for this programme being
the first to be dropped should there be a Tory victory. Howard, unlike his two
predecessors, has avoided all talk of "compassionate conservatism".

But if poor and average income families have been protected, so have the better
off. In the past decade average earnings for British employees grew by 45% but
for the bosses of Britain's biggest companies, the rise was six times as large.
In two decades, the richest 1% have seen their share of total income double from
6.5% to 13% - yet still Labour refuses to lift the top rate above 40%. The Lib
Dem proposal to apply 50% to earnings over £100,000 would raise more than £5bn
and help make the UK a fairer society. Even Margaret Thatcher maintained 60% for
her first nine years.

Labour can be proud of its achievements in the NHS - record investment, higher
clinical standards, shorter waiting lists and new attention to the biggest
patient group, the 17 million suffering from chronic diseases, including the
mentally ill. Perhaps the government's biggest success is that the Tories have
declared that they will invest just as much over the next five years, though
more than £1bn would be lost by their "passport" policy that would fund half the
cost of private hospital treatment for those who already pay to go private.
There would also be no targets at all.

Even so, uncertainties remain. The government's payments by results - money
following patients - will receive Tory support but its effects remain uncertain.
At the very least it will cause some serious instability.

Uncertainties remain in social services and housing. It is still not clear how
child protection will work out under the new umbrella covering all children's
needs. The service still faces chronic shortages of social workers and has lost
some of its most experienced directors. Services for the even larger client
group - older people - are being restructured, but we are still a long way from
a properly integrated health and social care system. Housing has been the
hardest squeezed service of all in the last two decades. The rise in homeless
families should not be a surprise. It is not just more private homes that are
needed but more social housing, as Shelter's Adam Sampson sets out, in the
wishlists of charities and public service chiefs on the next three pages.

Malcolm Dean is the Guardian's leader writer on social policy.


LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              138 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                           April 13, 2005, Wednesday

ELECTION2005: DIARY

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 24,25

LENGTH: 426 words


Good day

Menzies Campbell, who got to be the Liberal Democrats' leader for the day,
standing in after the birth of Charles Kennedy's first son. He was mischievously
photographed next to the slogan 'The Real Alternative'.

Bad day

Oliver Letwin, whose spending plans came under intense fire and who was forced
to admit that the Tories' flagship pledge to guard Britain's borders would only
cover 35 of the country's 650 ports.

n Birth of the Day: Ladbrokes are offering 100/1 on one-day-old Donald Kennedy
to become prime minister. Sadly, it's the same as the odds on his dad Charles
walking into Number 10.

n The Cumbria Tourist Board has declared the Lake District an 'election free
zone'. Broadcaster Eric Robson said: The chances of coming across a politician
searching for votes ... are to say the least remote.' Tell that to Tory Tim
Collins in the marginal Westmorland and Lonsdale seat (Maj: 3,147).

n Sale of the Century: UKIP MEP Godfrey Bloom, who faced a wave of condemnation
for claiming that women do not clean behind the fridge enough, has put said
fridge up for sale. The appliance, presumably clean front and back, is for sale
on ebay.co.uk. All proceeds to UKIP. Current bid: 99p.

n Gaffe(s) of the Day: Keith Taylor, one of the principal speakers of the Green
Party. The former beer importer from Essex told the BBC that the environment was
a 'minority interest' issue. The party banner fell off the stage during their
manifesto launch and their policy on eating local fruit fell flat when their
spokeswoman Jenny Jones admitted that 'people are always going to want bananas'.

n Quote of the day: 'If you elect an economic plan that is as big a mess as
this, that is as faulty and flawed as this, you elect an economic risk.' Tony
Blair on the Conservatives' economic policies.

n People: Corin and Vanessa Redgrave launched campaigning for their Peace and
Progress Party. Azmat Begg, father of former Guantanamo detainee Moazzam Begg
and a co-founder of the party, is among the candidates fielded by the party.

n Q & A:

Q: Which party has a target to recycle sewage?

A: The Green Party, which wants human waste to be made into fuel.

Q: Guess the weight of Charles Kennedy's baby, Donald?

A: 6 pounds nine ounces.

Q: Who said: 'I apologise for making a foolish mistake " I had no intention of
causing any embarrassment.'

A: Ed Matts, Conservative candidate in Dorset South, admitting he had doctored a
photograph of himself protesting about the deportation of an asylum-seeker.

LOAD-DATE: April 13, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              139 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 13, 2005

PROMISES, PROMISES ...WHAT THE PARTIES WILL DO WITH YOUR CASH

BYLINE: Isabelle Kassam, Personal Finance Editor

LENGTH: 1516 words


Here's an easy-to-read guide to their election pledges

CAMPAIGNING for the election is now in full swing.

But while you may know what the main parties' policies are on immigration, law
and order and the economy, do you understand what they have got planned for your
household's finances?

Cashflow asked the main parties to explain their positions on taxes and savings,
home buying and long-term care.

Their answers are given below but remember these are election PLEDGES -there is
no guarantee that any of them will be delivered.

LABOUR.

Debt.

WANT to stop people getting ripped off by loan sharks and high-interest credit.
Believe people should have access to fair financial products and good advice.
Established a Financial Inclusion Fund of £120million to give people on low
incomes access to affordable credit.

Homes.

AIM to have a million more homeowners - on top of extra million since 1997.
Believe mortgages should be as low as possible and plan changes to stamp duty
threshold to make 300,000 more homebuyers exempt each year. Help more people on
housing ladder through shared ownership and using vacant public land.

Council Tax.

THIS year, every household with someone over 65 paying the council tax will
receive a council tax refund of £200, paid alongside winter fuel payment.

Council tax will be reformed after report from independent Lyons Inquiry later
this year.

Long Term Care.

BELIEVE pensioners should have the care they need in a location suited to them.

Nursing care has been provided free to elderly people with medical needs but
Labour do not believe that making personal care free would be the best use of
resources.

Savings.

THINK ISAs are a great way for people to save. More than 16 million people have
opened one and £160billion has been invested since 1999. When ISAs were
introduced in 1999 they were guaranteed to run for ten years to 2009 but this
has been extended to 2010.

Pensions.

INTRODUCED stakeholder pensions in 2001 and more than two million have now been
sold. This has led to pension charges being lowered. Just set up the Pension
Protection Fund to prevent workers losing their pensions if their employer goes
bust.

Tax Credits.

SAY six million families with ten million children are benefiting from tax
credits.

Next April there will be increases to the Working Tax Credit to help with
childcare.

Will increase payments for children under Child Tax Credit in line with earnings
every year for the next three years.

Child Trust Fund.

BELIEVE the Child Trust Fund will give millions of children a valuable
investment. Consulting on further payments at age seven and during secondary
education.

Income Tax.

CUT the basic rate to 22p and introduced a 10p starting rate. Are indexing the
capital gains tax annual exempt amount in line with prices. Gains from selling a
main private residence will stay exempt from capital gains tax.

Family.

WILL extend respite care and support. Say they provide support through the
carer's allowance of £44.35 a week and that 425,000 people benefit from this.
Carers will also have access to other help from Government, including the Carer
Premium and the additional amount paid in Pension Credit, currently £25.55 a
week.

CONSERVATIVE.

Debt.

CONCERNED that personal debt has now passed the £1trillion (a thousand billion)
barrier.

Will tackle soaring debt by addressing the root cause of the problem - the
disincentive to save. Will introduce a new lifetime savings account.

Homes.

WILL extend the Right To Buy to housing associations and promote shared
ownership to help get people on the property ladder.

Council Tax.

WILL introduce an automatic 50 per cent discount on council tax bills for
households where all adults are 65 and over, up to a maximum of £500.

Will keep bills down for all by stopping the introduction of new council tax
bands and making sure the revaluation process is not fiddled.

Long Term Care.

FOR people who pay for three years' longterm care (either directly or through
insurance), will guarantee free long-term care for the rest of their lives.

Savings.

CLAIM that under Labour, the proportion of people's income that they save has
fallen by nearly a half. Plan new lifetime savings account. Also plan to change
the way rises in basic state pension are calculated - see Debt column, above -
as they say current system has eroded incentive to save. Will keep ISAs.

Pensions.

WILL raise the basic state pension in line with earnings, not prices, which will
give higher annual rises and reverse the spread of means-testing.

Tax Credits.

WILL introduce a new flexible childcare tax credit of up to £50 a week for
families with children under the age of five and will introduce an amnesty for
families experiencing hardship because of official mistakes.

Child Trust Fund.

WILL continue the policy of Child Trust Funds and support the principle of
encouraging the savings habit from a young age.

Income Tax.

HAVE a value-for-money action plan. Will spend £12billion less than Labour plan
to in 2007-8. Will use £8 billion to reduce borrowing and avoid tax rises. Will
use the remaining £4billion to reduce taxes.

Family.

NEW flexible childcare tax credit of up to £50 a week for families with children
under the age of five. They will tackle childcare crisis by providing funding
for more childminder places in local communities and more workplace nurseries.
They will also increase maternity pay.

LIB DEM.

Debt.

TEN-POINT plan to tackle personal debt crisis, including financial education in
schools and warnings on adverts for financial products. Other measures include
emergency funds for families who fall on hard times and a tightening of rules on
incomeprotection insurance and self-certified mortgages.

Homes.

INVEST in sustainable new homes, tackle the problem of empty properties and help
half a million first-time buyers a year on to the property ladder.

Also plan to increase stamp duty threshold to £150,000.

Council Tax.

BELIEVE that council tax is unfair because it hits pensioners and people on low
or fixed incomes.

Would abolish council tax and replace it with a local income tax which they
claim will cut the typical family's bill by around Pounds 450 a year.

Long Term Care.

BELIEVE those approaching the end of their lives deserve dignity. Will provide
free personal care when people most need it, for as long as they need it. Care
that would be free in a hospital, like feeding, washing and dressing, should
also be free in a care home or at home.

Savings.

WOULD extend ISAs until April 2010. By introducing a Citizens' Pension for
over-75s and lifting them out of means testing, there would be an added
incentive to save for all.

Pensions.

INCREASE over-75s' monthly pension by more than £100 and give elderly free
personal care. Address women's pensions - entitlement will be based on
residence, so women will no longer be penalised for raising children or caring
for relatives instead of taking paid jobs. People who save will not lose out in
mass means testing.

Tax Credits.

BELIEVE Gordon Brown has made the tax system too complex with tinkering and tax
credits. Say many of those eligible do not claim their credits, which means more
than 1.7million families pay more than 60p tax for every pound earned.

Child Trust Fund.

WILL scrap the Child Trust Fund, which they believe is unnecessary and
expensive. Would use the £1.5billion saved to fund 21,000 extra teachers to
deliver average class sizes of 20 for five- to seven-year-olds and 25 for seven-
to 11-year-olds.

Income Tax.

WILL pay for scrapping of tuition and top-up fees, free personal care for
elderly and low local taxes by introducing 50 per cent rate on incomes over
£100,000. Richest one per cent would be affected. Simplify capital gains tax,
possibly by incorporating it into income tax.

Family.

WILL scrap tuition and top-up fees for university students. Will increase
maternity pay for first child to £170 a week for six months.

GREENS

PLAN to reduce council tax bills for 80 per cent of households and eventually
scrap it.

Would also ditch tax breaks on private pensions to improve the state pension.

Car tax disc would go but petrol duties would climb.

MONSTER RAVING LOONIES

MAD ideas include launching 99p coin to save on change when shopping. Not in
favour of the euro but would invite European nations to join the Pound. Tax
credits would only be paid to nice people.

PLAID CYMRU

COUNCIL tax would be scrapped and a cap on credit card interest rates brought
in.

Tuition and top-up fees would be ditched.

Low earners to get a rise in minimum wage to £5.60 an hour.

UKIP

AIM to take Britain out of the EU and use annual contribution of £8.5billion to
reduce council tax and inheritance tax.

The poorest would be taken out of the tax system by scrapping the ten per cent
band. State pension would go up.


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              140 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                           April 13, 2005, Wednesday

Small talk with the big guns

BYLINE: Magnus Linklater and Angus Macleod

SECTION: Features; Scotland; 31

LENGTH: 914 words


Magnus Linklater and Angus Macleod eavesdrop on Edinburgh morning coffee with
the creme of the political creme

THE Blair-Brown roadshow has begun to verge on the surreal. Yesterday it came to
the Corn Exchange in Edinburgh, a place where cattle were once bought and sold
but which is now a smart new conference centre. For the purpose of the visit it
had been transformed into a Morningside tearoom, with little round tables where
folk had gathered, as they do, to enjoy a reviving cup of coffee, a wee gossip,
and to meet, who knows, the Prime Minister and the Chancellor of the Exchequer.

There were just a couple of aspects of this otherwise unexceptional scene which
suggested that all was not what it seemed. The room was bathed in arc-lights,
the coffee-drinkers were scrutinised by television cameras, and reporters were
supplied with earphones, through which they could eavesdrop on the conversation.

On to this already bizarre set came Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, flanked by
Alistair Darling, who is standing in this Edinburgh South West constituency, as
well as the First Minister, Jack McConnell, whose country this is. Loudly
applauded, they stood in front of a line of young people, who were there for no
apparent reason, and apologised for being late.

Mr Blair said they were very pleased to be "here at the Corn Exchange, in
Scotland" -in case his listeners had overlooked the fact. He said they were late
for a very good reason -they had been exposing the "complete mess" that the
Tories had made of their manifesto. He spoke with one hand in his pocket, to
show that this was an informal occasion, while with the other he offered a
choice between "Michael Howard and Oliver Letwin or me and Gordon Brown".

Mr Brown, who clasped his hands first in front of him and then behind him,
endorsed Mr Blair's views, and added that the Conservatives' plans had started
to unravel. He hoped the country would not return to "stop-go or boom and bust".

At this point they sat down at various tables and began to engage in
conversation with the coffee-drinkers. Journalists were forbidden to approach
the tables themselves, so that the chat could remain confidential, but since TV
microphones on long booms hovered over each table, the exchanges could be picked
up on the earphones so helpfully provided.

Unfortunately, the roving mikes were indiscriminate in their choice of table and
random in their movements, so the comments that were picked up became hopelessly
jumbled. It was rather like trying to tune into one of those old crystal radio
sets, with the reception veering from one station to another. One moment we were
listening to Mr Blair talking earnestly about treating drug addicts, then we
switched to Mr Brown discussing the fine progress of his 18-month-old son, John.

It went something like this: "One of the things we are doing in English towns is
to make treatment for addicts available in a very short time (Blair)...and
that's why we devised the winter allowance scheme which will be a great help to
pensioners (Brown)...if she's had a stroke you should look into getting more
help, you should talk to Jack about that (Blair)...He has about three favourite
words, but his favourite word is 'No'. He smiles a lot. I don't get sleepless
nights about the economy, only because of my young son. Ha Ha Ha (Brown) ...
Shared equity schemes enable people to buy a small stake in the housing market
and build it up (Blair)...We have to do more about Aids (Brown).

"Thanks, I'll get Alistair to speak to you (Blair)...I'll have to get you to
meet my son John (Brown)...Hello, good to see you, thank you, that's very kind,
Hello, sir (Blair)...Yes, Charlie Kennedy's just had a baby (Brown) . .

. It's important to get the economy right (Blair)...Ha Ha Ha (Brown)".

Intriguingly, Mr Brown came across as by far the more relaxed of the two. His
laughter was frequent, his small-talk unforced, he seemed completely at ease.

Either he felt on home ground, or perhaps he was in receipt of some good news.
Mr Blair, to whom this should have been natural territory, seemed more guarded.

Perhaps he was right, for amid the small-talk were some unexpectedly hostile
questions.

Melissa Dunn, 22, bluntly told Mr Blair she couldn't vote for him because of the
war and that, anyway, nothing much had changed since 1997. Mr Blair quickly
asked her what else worried her and switched gratefully to mental health
provision.

Betty Pollock, a feisty 73-year-old, had a go at Mr Brown about pensions, and
another questioner pressed him hard on Iraq. But nothing could dent the good
cheer of the amiable Mr Brown. It was a time for tea and sympathy -and plainly
they suited him.

BARGAIN OF THE DAY

The fridge-freezer belonging to Godfrey Bloom, the UKIP MEP, who famously said
that women should spend more of their time at home cleaning behind their
fridges.

Only the freezer part still works. Starting bid on eBay, £1.04

OWN GOAL OF THE DAY

"In the first Budget we will announce £4 billion worth of tax cuts. They will
come into effect in the financial year that follows" George Osborne, Tory
Treasury spokesman

PEARLY KING OF THE DAY

"Tim's great-grandparents used to live in the East End" Tim Archer, Surrey-born
Conservative candidate for Poplar & Canning Town, claims his Cockney roots

QUIZ QUESTION OF THE DAY

What language did Plaid Cymru first use to introduce its general election
manifesto?


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              141 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 12, 2005

Election 2005: 23 days to go

SECTION: Guardian Home Pages, Pg. 5

LENGTH: 356 words


Back to the real world

Chaotic scenes around Westminster yesterday as MPs lost their status when
parliament was finally dissolved.

Many mourned the loss of their parliament.uk email addresses, which went dead at
5pm. There was also a rush to hand in security passes for destruction.

Keen to enjoy parliament's subsidised food before the 5pm deadline, Gillian
Shephard was seen tucking into a hearty meal for one.

Best of friends

During yesterday's visit to a business park in Cheshire, the reformed double
act, Tony Blair and Gordon Brown, mingled with workers.

Mr Blair told them: "I am doing the talking, Gordon is doing the hard work. He
does the work, I get the credit, it is a good deal."

Is that the deal they struck at Granita?

Opting out

"I could easily decide to hang up my boots, enjoy my retirement and spend more
time with my grandchildren," Michael Howard said yesterday.

Is it fair of him to tantalise people like this?

Target Michael

Sylvia Dunn, the articulate Gypsy and Traveller leader, is to contest Michael
Howard's seat in Folkestone for the Peace and Progress party.

"Michael Howard has encouraged people to hate Gypsies," she points out.

But with only two candidates the party is still some way from No 10.

Something of the night

Reports from Bedfordshire reveal that a Ukip canvasser has been spotted running
from house to house posting election material at 1.45am.

Was it dedication to duty or a desperate attempt to avoid meeting voters?

Put it on yellow

Someone has faith in the Lib Dems. A mystery punter has made what must be the
most daring gamble of the campaign so far, buying the Lib Dems at £3,000 a seat
in the spread betting markets.

The person involved will earn £3,000 for every seat over 67 the party wins - and
pay £3,000 for each seat fewer.

That could cost the individual £63,000 if the party repeats its 1997 showing,
according to the lively politicalbetting.com website. It's a lot of faith to
place in the political impact of Charles Kennedy's forthcoming baby.

Sylvia Dunn: challenging Howard at Folkestone


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              142 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 12, 2005
                              Correction Appended

Education: Election 2005: a guide for schools

SECTION: Guardian Education Pages, Pg. 12

LENGTH: 1619 words


What are general elections?

Without regular competitive national elections, Britain would not be a
democracy. Leaders could stay on as long as they liked or just pass power on to
a friend or family member. Until 1911, it was possible to delay elections for
seven years, but now the maximum life of a parliament is five years.

Ingredients that help ensure elections are truly democratic include most people
having the right to vote (universal suffrage) and real competition between
different parties. Governments like to call elections when it is to their
advantage, so often they happen well before the five-year cut-off. Tony Blair
could have waited until June 2006 to hold this election. Election day is always
a Thursday.

After a general election, the leader of the political party with the most MPs in
the House of Commons is asked by the Queen to become prime minister and to form
a government that will manage the country. The leader of the party with the
second highest number of seats becomes the leader of the opposition. The prime
minister gives out the top government jobs. He appoints the ministers to run
specific government departments such as education, foreign affairs or defence.
Together with the PM, these ministers make up the cabinet.

Who can become an MP?

Anyone over the age of 21 and a British citizen can stand for election to
parliament. Certain professions are disqualified, such as judges, because they
are meant to be completely impartial in their work. Candidates have to put down
a deposit of £500, which is lost if they get less than 5% of the votes cast in
their constituency.

Candidates usually belong to a party, but they can stand as independents. As
well as the big three parties, there are also smaller parties such as the UK
Independence Party (Ukip), the Greens or Respect. The Monster Raving Loony party
has been putting up candidates at elections since the 1970s with its slogan:
iVote for Insanity n You Know it Makes Sense"

The oath

Before elected MPs can start carrying out their duties in parliament or use any
of its facilities, they are required to swear to be loyal to the Queen:

iI (name) swear by Almighty God that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance
to Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth, her heirs and successors, according to law. So
help me God."

The wording dates back to 1868, but was altered in 1978. There is another form
of words, called ian affirmation", for those who object to the form of words
above. In the last two elections, members of the Irish republican party Sinn
Fein have been elected to Westminster, but have refused to make the oath or
affirmation because both contain expressions of loyalty to the Queen. As a
result, they have not taken up their seats in parliament, although they have at
times been allowed to use Westminster facilities such as offices.

MPs also have to sign a book called the test roll.

Who can vote?

British citizens over 18 can vote, although they have to be on a list called the
electoral register. People who lose the right to vote include members of the
House of Lords, and people serving prison sentences over 12 months. People with
mental illnesses used to be called ilunaticsi and were barred from voting too.
Today there is no such blanket definition and people with mental health problems
whose voting right is in doubt have their situation assessed on a case-by-case
basis.

For the 2005 election there will be 646 electoral areas called constituencies,
each containing about 70,000 people.

Winners take all

In a general election, people in each area vote for local candidates. The winner
with the most votes becomes that constituency's MP. The way we elect people to
parliament is through a ifirst past the post" system, meaning the person with
the most votes wins everything. Some people consider this unfair, and want to
introduce a system in which votes are pooled and seats in parliament shared out
proportionately. This might prevent one party dominating power, such as the
Conservatives did in the 1980s or Labour has since 1997, but critics of this
system, known as proportional representation, say it would lead to weak
governments.

Campaign funds

In 2005, each candidate will be allowed to spend £7,150 plus seven pence for
each elector in a county constituency and five pence for each elector in urban
constituencies.

For parties involved in elections to the UK parliament, there is a campaign
expenditure limit of £30,000 for each seat contested. A party that fights for
all 646 UK seats will therefore be able to spend around £19.38m.

What do MPs get?

Since April 2004, an MP's parliamentary salary has been £57,485. MPs also get
money to pay for between two and three full-time staff. London MPs can claim up
to £77,534 maximum, while MPs with constituencies and staff outside London can
claim up to £66,458. They are also entitled to IT equipment and money for staff
training.

Who's in the house?

412: Labour

166: Conservatives

52: Liberal Democrats

6: Ulster Unionists

5: Scottish National Party

5: Ulster Democratic Unionist Party

4: Plaid Cymru

4: Sinn Fein

3: Social Democratic Labour Party

1: Independent

1: The Speaker

Total: 659

Government majority:166

Women MPs

Number elected

1987: 41

1992: 60

1997: 120

2001: 118

The current cabinet totals 22 ministers of whom six are women:

Margaret Beckett MP

Patricia Hewitt MP

Tessa Jowell MP

Hilary Armstrong MP

Baroness Amos

Ruth Kelly MP

Woman candidates in 2001 election

Labour: 149

Con: 92

Lib Dem: 139

Ethnic minority candidates in 2001 election:

Labour: 16

Conservative: 16

Liberal Democrats: 25

The 12 ethnic minority candidates elected were all Labour.

Houses of Parliament

In 1834, fire destroyed the Palace of Westminster. The current building was
designed by Sir Charles Barry and formally opened in 1852. Its architecture is
Victorian Gothic in style. The stench arising from pollution of the Thames
caused debates in the Commons to be suspended in 1858. It was bombed in 1941
during the second world war, and the main Commons chamber was wrecked.

Victoria Tower

The activities of MPs in the House of Commons can be traced through the official
records, such as the journals, committee records and reports of debates. These
are held in the parliamentary archives located in Victoria Tower. A Union Jack
flying from the Victoria Tower signals that MPs are isitting" n that is,
conducting parliamentary business. The official record of parliamentary debates
is called Hansard. It is available on the internet (see
ww.parliament.thestationeryoffice.co.uk/pa/cm/cmhansrd.htm).

The Royal Robing Room

Each year MPs take part in the state opening of parliament by the Queen. It is
in the royal robing room that the Queen puts on the official robes in which she
performs this ritual. MPs who are new to the ways of parliament have to get used
to a lot of new customs and ceremonies and learn to find their way around a
maze-like building with its hundreds of rooms and two kilometres of corridors.

The Commons chamber

The most public thing MPs do is take part in debates in the House of Commons
chamber. There are not enough seats for them all, but rarely is the chamber
completely full. This only happens if there is a vote on something very
controversial or if there is an important announcement being made.

MPs sit on two banks of green chairs. The government MPs face opposition MPs.
There are red lines on the carpet of the House that keep opposing speakers at
least two sword-lengths apart n a precaution dating from the days when MPs
carried weapons. When a formal vote, or idivision", is held, the MPs go out into
two rooms off the main chamber. Anyone voting in favour of a motion goes into
the iaye" lobby to the right of the Speaker, the person at the head of the
chamber who controls parliamentary debates. Those voting against, or inay", go
to the lefthand lobby. Because they represent their constituents, MPs' votes are
public and are recorded.

House of Lords

The members of the Lords are not elected. For most of its history, the Lords was
made up almost entirely of bishops and hereditary peers. In 1958, the law was
changed to allow the creation of life peers, who could sit in the Lords but
whose titles were not passed on to their descendants. In 1999, the Labour
government removed the right of most hereditary peers to remain in the Lords,
but 92 were allowed to remain until further reforms. The 26 archbishops and
bishops of the Church of England also sit in the Lords. Others are nominated by
the leaders of the political parties. The House of Lords scrutinises legislation
from the Commons; it is also the highest court of appeal in the country.

Committee rooms

Only a small proportion of an MP's time is spent in the chamber. MPs sit on
standing committees overseeing the wording of new laws, or select committees
conducting investigations into the work of government ministries.

Visitors' galleries

It is from here that members of the public can view debates in the Houses of
Parliament. MPs have a monthly allocation of tickets for which constituents can
apply.

The central lobby

This is where MPs can meet constituents or others wishing to see them, perhaps
for lobbying purposes (ilobbyingi means trying to persuade an MP to back a
particular policy). MPs have to make themselves available to constituents
wanting to talk to them. Usually, this occurs face to face at a weekly surgery
in the MP's constituency, but now email has made it much easier to contact MPs.


LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 14, 2005

CORRECTION:

In Election 2005: a guide for schools, page 11 onwards, Education, April 12, the
graphic indicating the breakdown of seats, page 12, should have said Northern
Ireland (rather than Ireland) 18 seats. In the map on pages 14 and 15 a panel
labelled Western Isles was connected to the Kintyre peninsula, which is part of
the constituency of Argyll & Bute. The nearest part of the Western Isles is over
100 miles to the north, off the map.

It is Guardian policy to correct significant errors as soon as possible. Please
quote the date and page number. Readers may contact the office of the readers'
editor by telephoning +44 (0)20 7713 4736 between 11am and 5pm UK time Monday to
Friday excluding UK bank holidays. Mail to Readers' editor, The Guardian, 119
Farringdon Road, London EC1R 3ER, UK. Fax +44 (0)20 7239 9997. Email:
reader@guardian.co.uk


                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              143 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                             April 11, 2005, Monday

Ukip offers deal to anti-EU candidates

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin Political Correspondent

SECTION: News; International Pg. 010

LENGTH: 146 words

CONSERVATIVE and Labour candidates were offered a last-minute chance yesterday
to avoid a challenge from the UK Independence Party by publicly declaring that
they wanted to leave the European Union.

Nigel Farage, the Ukip leader in the European Parliament, indicated that his
party would not oppose candidates who confirmed that they wanted an "amicable
divorce" from the EU. Mr Farage, who is fighting the Labour marginal of Thanet
South, said that so far no Tory or Labour candidates were willing to make that
commitment.

But he also said that, in any case, Ukip would definitely field a candidate
against Oliver Letwin, the shadow chancellor, in his Dorset West constituency
where Mr Letwin has a perilously small majority of 1,414.

Ukip hopes to field around 500 candidates but will concentrate its resources on
about 21 seats, mostly in the south-west of England.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              144 of 175 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 11, 2005

No place to run

LENGTH: 1498 words



HIGHLIGHT: Welcome to the Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's round-up of the best of the
day's papers.


Welcome to the Wrap, Guardian Unlimited's round-up of the best of the day's
papers.

Also in today's Wrap: Times accuses Labour over postal voting, government gives
£6.5m to Rover's administrators, Woods triumphs in Masters

NO PLACE TO RUN

We can duck the issue no longer, dear readers. Without the Pope and Charles 'n'
Camilla to distract the papers, it's nothing but the general election for the
next few weeks. And from the look of the first post-wedding headlines, it's
going to be nasty, brutish and uncomfortably long.

The Conservative leader, Michael Howard, yesterday lit the fuse on an explosive
debate about immigration, and was immediately accused of "scurrilous, rightwing,
ugly tactics" by the Labour minister Peter Hain.

"We face a real terrorist threat in Britain today, a threat to our way of life,
to our liberties. Yet we have absolutely no idea who's coming into and leaving
our country," Mr Howard told a rally in Telford. He said Labour's immigration
and asylum policies posed a threat to the nation's security and placed a strain
on public services.

Despite insisting that his choice to highlight immigration was a common sense
and not racist, the Guardian hails "the return of the nasty party" on hearing
what the paper considers to be Mr Howard's distorted assertions that the system
is in "chaos" and that the government has failed to address the issue.

The Mirror is apoplectic with liberal rage, suggesting that UKIP and the BNP are
losing votes to Mr Howard because his "alarmist rhetoric" on immigration appeals
to the far right. Then the paper makes it all very personal, reminding Mr Howard
that his own family are immigrants saved from Nazi death camps by British
asylum. "It is disgusting that he would deny to others the sanctuary of asylum
given to his family," the Mirror fumes.

The Sun, though, is happy to have immigrants back in the spotlight. "It's not
racist to talk about immigration and asylum. Illegal immigrants who pay no taxes
are an unwanted drain on the public services the rest of us need," the paper
says. But the still-undecided tabloid stays on the fence, praising Mr Howard's
approach as "long overdue" while conceding that Mr Blair's points system beats
Tory plans for quotas.

The Guardian also plunges into the Tories' spending plans today, reporting that
a Treasury costing of Conservative commitments reveals £15.7bn in costs where
the shadow chancellor has promised £12bn in cuts. But the FT strikes the fear of
the economy into Labour by finding that 49% of finance directors believe the
Tories have the best policies for business.

I'd like to tell you that May 5 will be here sooner than you think, but we both
know that's a lie.

*Row over £15bn Tory black hole

*Return of the nasty party

*Telegraph: Howard stands firm in migrants storm

*Mirror: Tories' lies reveal the ugly truth

*Sun: Border war

*FT: Business fears Labour tax rise

THE FUTURE KING AND I

The royal wedding may have happened two days ago, but the pictures still
dominate the front pages. There's Prince William in the Daily Mail giving
Camilla, now the Duchess of Cornwall, a kiss on the cheek. There's the Queen,
smiling with the princes and the happy couple, on the front of the Express.
There's the Duchess of Cornwall, holding onto her red feathered hat on her
honeymoon in Scotland, on the front page of the Mirror, the Sun, the Times, the
Guardian... oh, you get the idea.

The Daily Express, not entirely convinced that the royal wedding was a positive
development, puts the success of the day down to the accepting attitude of
William and Prince Harry. "Had these young men seemed awkward or unhappy, this
wedding could have turned into yet another fiasco for their father," the paper
muses.

Jonathan Freedland in the Guardian saw the wedding as a preview of the court of
Charles III, whose "preference seems to be for upper crust with a twist". Actors
Stephen Fry, Meera Syal, Sanjeev Bhaskar, and Joanna Lumley joined it-girl Tara
Palmer-Tomkinson and thriller writer Robert Harris on the guest list. Freedland
noted the presence of broadcaster Jonathan Dimbleby, also the president of the
Soil Association, organic farming proponents close to Charles's heart.

The Times announced that the royal couple will head to the US for their first
official overseas tour, complete with a visit to the US president, George Bush.

But what does Diana's former butler, Paul Burrell, think of the marriage of her
former husband and the lover she called the third person in their marriage?
"I've never felt so nauseous," he writes in the Mirror, accusing the BBC
journalists who covered the wedding of "collective amnesia and smarm".

"The prospect of a Queen Camilla will spread republicanism like a cancer," he
predicts.

Strong words, but they somehow ring truer than those of Diana's former lover,
James Hewitt, who told the Sun that the princess would have been happy to see
Charles moving on by marrying Camilla. Somehow it just does not seem like what
she would have wanted.

*A preview of the court of King Charles

*Times: America to be first official port of call for newlyweds

*Sun: Di 'would be happy'

POSTDATED CHECKS

The scandal of postal voting fraud continues to dominate the papers. Today the
Times leads with a front-page accusation that the government has decided to
legislate to change the system, but not until after the May 5 election.

Unnamed Labour sources told the paper that the party had plans to fast track
fraud reduction measures should Labour win another term. Proposed measures
included creating a new offence of fraudulently applying for a postal vote and
publishing lists showing who votes by post, making it possible to check if
ballots have been stolen.

Approximately 15% of the electorate in the upcoming general election are
expected to vote by post. Last week a senior judge found that the current system
is open to abuse.

The Telegraph struggles to find "suitable words of condemnation" for Labour's
response to the postal voting scandal. The party pushed ahead with a system wide
open to fraud in order to increase turnout in Labour strongholds, the paper
argues, ignoring concerns voiced by the Conservatives, the Liberal Democrats and
the Electoral Commission.

"Labour's cavalier response ... is proof, if proof were needed, of how arrogant
that party has become in office," the Telegraph says.

*Times: Labour to halt postal vote fraud but only after election

*Telegraph: Arrogant Labour knew risks of all-postal voting

ROVER RESPITE

The government has provided the administrators at MG Rover with £6.5m in
financing to pay the company's 6,000 employees. The money will give negotiators
some breathing space to put together a deal with a Chinese company that could
save jobs.

The Daily Mail want the government's role in Rover's downfall investigated,
particularly the decision by the former trade and industry secretary Stephen
Byers to guide Rover toward the Phoenix management team rather than a venture
capital team with "more realistic plans" that would have involved some lay-offs
before an election.

"This is a story of greedy businessmen, cynical politicians more interested in
marginal seats than British industry, and 25,000 workers who have been totally
betrayed," the Mail says.

*Hewitt gives £6.5m to stave off Rover job losses

TIGER FEAT

The Guardian declares that Tiger Woods is back on top as "the greatest golfer of
the post-Nicklaus era" as he overcame the last few rocky years to win the 2005
Masters at Augusta.

"To watch Woods preparing to rectify one of his own errors, or to compensate for
an act of cruel fate, is to bear witness to a mesmerising blend of tactical
creativity and sheer competitive will," writes Richard Williams in the Guardian.

Martin Johnson in the Telegraph is more moved by how close Woods came to blowing
it. "He managed to win at the first extra hole, but there was sweat on his shirt
and it wasn't entirely down to the Georgia humidity."

*Debate over - Woods is still a major talent

*Telegraph: Woods almost chokes on his free lemonade

TOO MUCH, TOO YOUNG

Every so often a story comes along that touches the Daily Mail reader in all of
us. The sales of hot pink and black lace lingerie to girls as young as nine is
one of those stories.

Asda tells the Express that a mistake at a Moroccan contractor meant the sexy
underthings were manufactured with black lace rather than pink, which obviously
would have bridged the irony of a 28AA push-up bra. The shop has, at any rate,
withdrawn the £7 bra and knicker set from sale.

The mother who lodged a complaint against the store told the Mail: "This sort of
product seems to be part of a trend where children are being sexualised at a
much younger age. These lingerie sets are really very adult."

>>>Sign up for our free daily election briefing and we'll send you Ros Taylor's
round-up of the latest campaign news each lunchtime

>>>Follow the latest election news as the Tories become the first major party to
publish their manifesto

>>>Stay up to date with the latest developments at Rover

LOAD-DATE: April 12, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              145 of 175 DOCUMENTS



                                   The Mirror

                             April 11, 2005, Monday

VOICE OF THE DAILY MIRROR: TORY'S LIES REVEAL THE UGLY TRUTH

SECTION: 3 Star Edition; LEADER; Pg. 6

LENGTH: 315 words


AT least there is no pretence now. The Tory message is blatantly clear: Vote for
us and keep foreigners out of Britain.

It is no coincidence that today's Daily Mirror/GMTV poll reveals little support
for the BNP and UKIP.

Anyone who is sympathetic to those parties' policies can now back Michael
Howard's Tories.

But the British people, even though they are concerned about asylum seekers and
immigrants, are not going to fall for his rabble-rousing.

Already the Conservatives are slipping in the polls. That is why Mr Howard in
desperation is racking up his alarmist rhetoric.

Yet his anti-immigrant stand was devised by an immigrant - his spin doctor
Lynton Crosby, who was imported into Britain for the election.

And don't forget that the Tory leader's parents were immigrants.

Nor that his grandfather was an asylum seeker who would have gone to Hitler's
gas chambers, where Mr Howard's grandmother died, if he had not been welcomed
here.

It is disgusting that he would deny to others the sanctuary of asylum given to
his family.

Today's poll shows why this could be fertile ground for sewer politics. As a
nation, we are remarkably unaware of the real facts of asylum and immigration.

To us, it seems that millions of asylum seekers are desperate to get to Britain
to live in luxury on our benefits.

The truth is that only a tiny proportion want to come here and most of those who
do can claim no more than a pittance.

As for immigrants living off welfare, they want to work in Britain, not sponge
off us.

A mere 23 out of the 133,000 East Europeans who came here last year are on
benefit - not 57,000, which is the average estimate of those polled for us.

Immigration and asylum must not be used by desperate politicians to exploit the
worst fears and prejudices.

The British people are too decent to be taken in by their lies.

LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                            Copyright 2005 MGN Ltd.

                              146 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 11, 2005, Monday

EU free run offer

SECTION: Home news; 2

LENGTH: 81 words


The UK Independence Party opened its campaign by offering a free run to any
Conservative or Labour candidate who affirms a desire to take Britain out of the
European Union. Nigel Farage, one of the party's Euro MPs, made the pledge.

The offer is seen as a bargaining tool aimed at Eurosceptic Conservative MPs who
fear that their local support will suffer on May 5 if there is a repetition of
the UKIP's 16 per cent showing in the European Parliament elections last June.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              147 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 11, 2005, Monday

XDAY6

SECTION: Home news; 23

LENGTH: 170 words


CLICHE OF THE DAY

"He must think the British people were born yesterday" Dr Liam Fox, Conservative
Party co-chairman

MEANINGLESS PHRASE OF THE DAY

"Ferryhill Comprehensive now a specialist business college, results doubled in
just two years" Tony Blair listing achievements in Sedgefield

SNIPE OF THE DAY

"Large sections of Conservative policy are just worthless, unimplementable
rubbish" Roger Knapman, leader of the UK Independence Party

SOUNDBITE OF THE DAY

"Are you remembering what I'm remembering?"

Tony Blair mocking the Conservative catchphrase

RHYME OF THE DAY

"No way, Jose" Charles Kennedy denies that he will go into coalition with
anybody if there is a hung Parliament

PLAN FOR TODAY

Labour: Party political broadcast with Tony Blair and Gordon Brown

Conservatives: Manifesto launch at 8am in Central London, then Michael Howard to
Scotland and Wales

Liberal Democrats: Charles Kennedy takes his battle bus to Surrey

www.timesonline.co.uk/election2005


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              148 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 11, 2005, Monday

Ideals and the agony of compromise

BYLINE: Damian Whitworth

SECTION: Home news; 27

LENGTH: 941 words


Racial tensions in West Yorkshire put first-time voters in a dilemma, writes
Damian Whitworth

Rachel Patti, an A-level student with a refreshing enthusiasm for just about
everything including politics, was excited about voting in her home town of
Keighley. Now she is discovering that simply casting a ballot for the candidate
of your choice is not so easy.

"When you are 18 and voting for the first time, you want to vote on the basis of
your ideals and principles," she says. "You don't want to compromise." The
reality is that she is considering voting tactically for a party she does not
believe in to thwart a candidate she abhors and prevent her town from finding
itself on the political map for an unwelcome reason.

Last year Keighley, which has a large Asian population, saw the election of two
British National Party candidates to the local council. Nick Griffin, the
party's leader, decided to run in the seat after a documentary on Channel 4
investigated claims that Asian men were grooming under-age white girls for sex.
He is currently on bail after appearing in court on race-hate charges brought as
a result of a BBC investigation.

After Rachel e-mailed me about her concerns I went to meet her and two school
friends, Rachael Purvis and Chris Storton. The constituency of Keighley, which
includes the rather more staid Ilkley, across the moor, and a scattering of
villages such as the Bronte tourist haven of Haworth, has been held for the past
eight years by Ann Cryer. It is the 50th most vulnerable Labour seat and an
important Conservative target. If Keighley falls it is likely that the Labour
majority will go too.

Chris intends to vote Tory. Rachel and Rachael are leaning towards the Liberal
Democrats because Tony Blair is "slimy" and they are against tuition fees and
the Iraq war. The Lib Dems, however, have no chance of winning and so they are
worried about wasting their votes and letting Mr Griffin slip in. Rachel says
that there have been some heartening anti-racism initiatives in the past year,
such as the Keighley United Campaign, but she hates meeting people from outside
the town and hearing them say: "Oh yes, Keighley. The racist place."

Their school is predominantly white but has a joint sixth form with a mostly
Muslim school. They have Asian friends but see racism and friction all around.

Rachel says: "In parts of the community there is a feeling of 'us and them'. I
don't think they realise that if they vote for the BNP it will make things
worse."

In a recent political discussion at school students started talking about
telling "these horrible foreigners to go back where they came from", Rachel
says. "And that's a polite way of saying it. It shocks us."

There are frequently fights between pupils from the mostly white school and
those from the mostly Asian school. Friends have been "seized upon" when walking
home alone. The attacks "happen both ways". "You see children of ten and below
shouting racist derogatory things at other children," she says.

"Education is needed to promote living together and knowledge of other
cultures."

Chris says that there are no-go areas at night because of racial violence. He
has friends who are "normal people, otherwise upstanding members of society",
who are fed up with the lack of anyone dealing with real problems. He says that
they are willing to vote for extremists.

I ring Mr Griffin. He says: "In the white working-class areas we are streets
ahead of Labour." He denies that there will be trouble if he is elected. I go
with the students to see Karl Poulsen, 34, the Tory candidate. He plays down the
BNP threat. "Let's not kid ourselves that it is more than a very small
minority," he says. The students dispute this. The near-5,000 votes the BNP won
last year came in three council wards.

"There are enough of them to be a significant problem," Rachael says. "I've seen
lots of young people delivering BNP leaflets."

Mr Poulsen says: "I wish lots of young people were delivering my leaflets,"
Crime is at the top of his agenda. He featured in a local newspaper advert under
the slogan: "It's not the householders who should be frightened, it's the
burglars."

Neither of the undecided voters are inclined to vote for him.

Ms Cryer is harder to track down. Her press man keeps promising to call me back
but never does, so I turn up on the office doorstep. Her press man walks in,
furious. Ms Cryer says that Mr Griffin makes the campaign unpleasant because he
is an unpleasant man. His claim to be ahead of Labour in white working-class
areas means "he's in cloud-cuckoo-land".

Ms Cryer has caused offence among some Asians by attacking forced marriages and
calling for immigrants to speak some English. Her blunt delivery may have cost
votes. "I'm honest, but I don't think I am that blunt," she says. I talk to a
group of Muslim men who are scathing about Ms Cryer. They are off to hear what
Mr Poulsen has to offer.

"I'm not sure about either party," says one. I suggest that he had better vote
for one of them or he could have someone he likes even less as his MP.

I leave Keighley cheered by my encounter with three thoughtful, articulate and
passionate first-time voters and depressed by the spectre of racism that hangs
over their town.

If your constituency contest is worth a closer look, send an e-mail to
damian.whitworth@thetimes.co.uk

KEIGHLEY

2001 result

Labour.............20,888

Conservative.......16,883

Liberal Democrat....4,722

UKIP..................840

Majority............4,005

(4.6 per cent swing needed for Tories to take)


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              149 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 11, 2005, Monday

UKIP offers not to stand where MP is anti-EU

BYLINE: Angus Macleod Scottish Political Editor

SECTION: Home news; Scotland; 26

LENGTH: 258 words


THE UK Independence Party has offered not to stand a candidate in the
constituency of any sitting Conservative or Labour MP who will say that they
want to take Britain out of the European Union.

The promise, made by Nigel Farage MEP on BBC One's Breakfast with Frost, is
aimed at Eurosceptic Conservative MPs who are worried that their support will be
hit if there is a repeat of UKIP's showing in last June's European elections, in
which it took 16 per cent of the vote.

UKIP says that it would make way for any candidate who announced that they want
an "amicable divorce" from the EU and a return to a free-trade relationship with
the continent.

But Mr Farage added that simply expressing doubts about Europe would not be
enough.

UKIP claims that it has a fighting chance in around 20 seats. Many of their
targets are in Devon and Cornwall, where it was the largest single party in last
year's European election.

UKIP's Scottish conference, in Perth, backed a plan to scrap more than half of
Scotland's 129 MSPs.

It was agreed that 59 MPs elected by first-past-the-post should sit for two days
a week at Westminster, where they should be able to vote on UK -but not English
or Welsh -legislation. For the rest of the week they would sit in Edinburgh,
where they would be joined by 59 MSPs, elected by proportional representation.

The party, which is fielding candidates in 20 Scottish constituencies, also said
that it would scrap separate denominational education and bring all schools into
the state system.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              150 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Observer

                                 April 10, 2005

ELECTION 2005: ON... the people: 'Labour. Always. Maybe Ukip': Enthusiasm is
hard to find, even in two places that hold the key to the government's majority

BYLINE: euan ferguson

SECTION: Observer News Pages, Pg. 16

LENGTH: 1475 words


'IT'S GOING to be fabulously exciting: can't wait. I've followed everything all
the parties have said, and now have a clear idea of the major differences. It's
a chance for me to help my country. Also, I do hope the campaigns come here.
I've got great respect for all the leaders, and would love to meet them.'

In Accrington, the rain comes down with a grudge. This is not normal spring
rain. This stuff, which gathers determinedly above a bowl of hills centred on
Blackburn, has belief, purpose, personality (the main purpose apparently to
erase the last viciously scrawled page of my notes, a sarcastic reminder to
myself of exactly what I wasn't getting, wasn't hearing, in the week the 2005
election was called).

It is one thing to read or hear about the apathy that voters are bringing to 5
May, but it is quite a dispiriting other to experience it. Most worrying were
the twentysomethings: the phrase 'I'm not really into politics' is trotted out
with the kind of shrug one would normally associate with admissions of ignorance
as to the intricacies of Peruvian nose-flute playing.

As I wait in the battering rain, outside the unaccountably closed hotel, for the
non-existent taxi, I am clutching a wet handful of the past two days' national
papers, every one of which informs me that this is the most crucial election for
a generation. I'm just glad I've got my wet handful to tell me so, because
otherwise this could have struck me as the least important election of perhaps
all time.

This, at least, is the impression - the strong impression - from the best part
of a week spent in two important constituencies, and the main question hanging
in my mind on the train back to London is just how we managed to be careless
enough to turn the democracy we once enjoyed - vibrant, poisoned, fun, complex,
ultimately meaningful - into something we now prefer, apparently, to export.

Hyndburn is a Labour-held constituency in Accrington. It features pleasant
people and rain. Broxtowe is a Labour-held constituency on the outskirts of
Nottingham. It features a shopping precinct and warmer rain. According to
research for The Observer by Mori, the fall of either to the Tories would
signify the national Labour downfall. My task is to find enthusiasm in either
Hyndburn or Broxtowe for bringing it about.

In Nottingham I get my first mild surprise when I intercept Michael Biddulph,
67, who has just lost his right leg. 'Gangrene. I'm diabetic. It started on my
little toe. So they started slicing me away, bit at a time, and just sort of. .
. kept going.' He is now driving one of those red batteried urban
wheelchair-scooter affairs that putter asthmatically in front of Co-ops in every
high street. Losing his leg was free, but Michael's Galaxy-hopper or
Nimbula-Loper cost him £2,200. 'Labour. Definitely Labour. Always have, always
will. Though I can't stand Blair. Actually, you know, maybe Ukip.'

I hope you see my confu sion. Once, and not really that long ago, there was a
time when Labour meant Labour and the mindset that entailed. You were left-wing.
You were, generally, biddable on immigration, and tough on intolerance. Now, if
Michael votes - he's not sure he'll bother - he would see it as no 'betrayal' to
vault across to Ukip. 'I'm not sure if anyone thinks of Labour as the left now.
It's not like it's a movement.'

Time and again in Broxtowe, from old and the few young who had an opinion, this
message came back. There just seems precious little to choose from and between:
no left-right battles, no gutsy polemic or hearty belief, just nuances of
massage and spin. Everyone is wise to it.

Labour will probably get back in here, although there is a good bit of quiet
anger at local MP Nick Palmer's very pro-Iraq war stance. Three people I spoke
to were thinking about switching to the Lib Dems. But just thinking about it,
just swithering. The one definite thing, here, was the palpable dislike of both
Tony Blair and Michael Howard as leader. 'Two lying lawyers!' said 44-year-old
Mary, outside one of the about 380 card-'n'-novelty shops lining the main street
in Beeston, at the centre of the constituency.

'I read these polls which say no one trusts them, like it's a shock or
something. I'll go Labour, because I'd never go Tory, there's still enough anger
in these parts at them. I was actually with (Blair) on the war, at first, but
now we know he lied, then lied about lying. So I'll go. . . you know, now I've
said that, I don't even know if I'll bother this time.'

This is new. I covered the last two elections, and, yes, voter apathy grew, but
it was more apparent in the result. People were shy of saying, four whole weeks
before, that they didn't intend to vote: now they are unapologetic.

THEY DO like Charlie. Mr Kennedy's name brings in most cases something of a
smile and a nod: but there is little knowledge of Lib Dem policies, and even
among disaffected Labour voters there is a realisation that a vote for them
could be a default vote for the Tories. This message, at least, is getting
through: both here and in Accrington there was a fairly canny understanding of
the psephology. Nirma, a student of arresting prettiness and startling insight,
suggested why.

I had been struck by the strange number of notices of denial in our British
world today. No smoking (obviously). But also no browsing, no dog walking, no
singing, do not thumb the magazines, no parking, shut the gate, quiet when
leaving the premises, toilets CLOSED.

'I think the Conservatives, Howard, has touched on something. Most people have
so many laws today. It's a lot of hassle just to fill things in, just to get
through the week, be a good citizen, do the right thing, with idiot councils or
bureaucracy or whatever. And then someone comes along and just breaks it all,
doesn't bother - I mean gypsies or immigrants. And I know they don't really, you
know that, but this is the thing. Everyone who has to deal with little laws all
the time resents it so much when someone seems to get off, and Howard's playing
on that.'

Would she vote Tory? 'Christ, no. I'm not saying I agree with them, just that
that's what they're doing.

The beauty of the Peak District on a blustery day takes my mind, for a moment,
off the hideous slowness of the journey, the train's just-revolving wheels
having suggested for the past 20 miles that somewhere on the line ahead a sheep
is struggling to either give birth or sign the forms which will allow it to
train as a logistics manager for Arriva.

Talk here, if it is of national events, is of the Grand National. Mention of
Charles/ Camilla, in Nottingham and the north-west, stirred equally faint
(though, interestingly, more kindly) passions as the election; the Pope got
people talking a little.

This may be an exciting election for the media, but only because it could be
close. In Nottingham and Accrington, with very few exceptions - die-hard Labour
or Conservative voters, 'always had been' - it was sadly hard to find anyone who
cared.

'No one likes Tories, so Labour's safe here,' said Tom Barton, sheltering under
a graffiti-heavy bridge from the cold Accrington rain, 'but it's not a vote of
love. I will vote, think I should, but there's a lot of people like me say
they're not bothering.' In a nearby pub, discussion was of wheelie-bins and a
karaoke night. The day after the election was called the Accrington edition of
the Lancashire Evening Telegraph gave it no coverage at all - count it, none -
leading instead on a story about a £7,500 council grant cut to a charity
shopping bus.

A charming woman called Bethan Morris, in Nottingham, had explained to me the
day before: 'Everyone's sort of reasonably well-off, you see; it must be that
they don't see the need for change. And, frankly, I can't see these days there's
so much choose between. Can you?'

It's quite a trick that Brown and Blair have managed between them: making Labour
the natural party of government, while making its natural electorate not really
care.

But it's not as though this is a bad or an unhappy country. Everywhere I went I
was greeted with kindness and helpfulness. No starvation, no guns. People get on
with their relatively well-fed lives, and most of the time the wheelie bins get
emptied, and they love their families, and hope Charles and Camilla have a nice
day.

It is a less deferential country, and more cynical about the ability of
government, local or national, to actually achieve much, and strangely Britishly
old-fashioned about some things, such as education ('more computers in schools,
so what? Not much point when the kids still aren't able to read').

And a grand and beautiful wet country, and it would be nice to think, over the
next four weeks, it would begin to get some of the debate it deserves.


LOAD-DATE: April 11, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUB-TYPE: PAPER

                       © 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              151 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 10, 2005, Sunday

New frontiers in the election battleground

BYLINE: Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher

SECTION: Features; Election Special 2005 11

LENGTH: 1644 words


Labour looks set for a third term, but many voters remain uncommitted. Colin
Rallings and Michael Thrasher identify key seats in the battle ahead

Labour appears to be on the verge of an unprecedented third consecutive general
election victory. Despite Iraq and the collapse in Tony Blair's personal
popularity ratings there is no sign of the straight two-party swing that tends
to be necessary for a decisive change of government in Britain.

When Blair won in 1997, and Margaret Thatcher did so in 1979, there was a clear
shift in public mood and electoral support from the government of the day to the
major opposition party. This time the Tories are struggling to push their
support beyond the mid-30% level where they have drifted since Black Wednesday
in September 1992. The Tories also continue to lag behind Labour as the favoured
party on key election issues such as health, education and the economy.

All the indicators from this parliament confirm the Tories' predicament. In six
parliamentary by-elections, all in safe Labour seats, Labour's support has
dropped by an average of nearly 20%.

But in no case have the Tories been the beneficiaries - their vote has declined
by an average of 4% and in Hartlepool they were beaten into fourth place by UKIP
.

In the European parliament elections in 2004 the Tories made much of their
electoral success, topping the poll in the first nationwide test of Michael
Howard's leadership. But their share of the vote was just 27% - some 10% less
than at the equivalent contests in 1999.

The Tories have also been out in front in local elections since 2003 but their
share of the vote has been no better than that under William Hague in 1997 2001.

Instead of shifting to the Tories, electors have been registering their
dissatisfaction with the government by voting for the Liberal Democrats or for
one of a range of minor parties. The Lib Dems' average poll rating in the first
three months of this year has been more than 20% (during the same period in
2001, when the pollsters' methodology was slightly less favourable to them, it
was just 14%), and the party has been neck-and-neck with Labour in the contest
for second place in local elections.

The combination of the Greens, UKIP, the BNP and Respect took almost three in
every 10 votes at last year's European contests. Indeed they were the first
modern elections at which Tories and Labour combined polled less than half of
all votes.

This dispersal of the anti-government vote is likely to help save Blair. The
Tories are the main challengers to Labour in 135 of its 150 most marginal seats.

Any movement from Labour to any other party makes it harder for the Tories to
win.

A direct 3% swing from Labour to the Tories in Harwich and the seat would change
hands. A 3% swing from Labour to the Lib Dems, whether prompted by Iraq or the
unwinding of previous tactical voting, and Labour would hang on.

It is possible that not everything is as rosy as it appears for Labour. The
party's poll lead is in single figures; a month before the elections in 1997 and
2001 it was close to 20%. On both those occasions Labour did less well at the
election itself.

If history repeats itself then the result could be quite close in terms of votes
polled. Labour would lose two or three dozen marginals and the Tories could
register some surprises in places such as Rossendale, Darwen and Swindon where
they have done well in local elections.

But Labour, based on the efficient distribution of its vote in the seats that
matter, is likely to win many more seats for any given share of the vote than
the Tories. Assuming a uniform swing across the country, a tie in votes would
see Blair returned with an overall majority of nearly 60; even a Tory lead of 2%
in the popular vote would still leave Labour well out in front in the Commons.

Only if the Tories are 10 points ahead of Labour can Howard be guaranteed an
overall majority, and it would be smaller than the 21 majority that caused John
Major so much trouble in 1992-1997.

Against this background it is little wonder that the Tories' private
expectations are rather modest. Reducing Labour's majority below 100 must be the
first goal.

That will require a swing of about 3.5% and return seats such as Shipley, Ilford
North and Peterborough to Tory control. To push Labour's majority below 50 would
need a swing of about 5%; it would see seats such as Wirral West, Burton and
Pendle return to Conservative MPs.

A more ambitious target is the 6.2% swing required to wipe away Blair's overall
majority. Most of these seats have Labour majorities in excess of 5,000, but
were almost all Tory-held from 1979 to 1997. Key indicators include Birmingham
Edgbaston, Michael Portillo's former berth in Enfield Southgate, and the home
town of "Worcester woman", identified by Tory and new Labour in 1997 as pivotal
voters.

For the Tories to overtake Labour in Commons seats would take a swing of more
than 8%. They would gain Basildon, a symbol this time of "Essex man" and 1980s
support for Thatcherism, and even seats such as Cambridge and Nuneaton that have
been Labour since 1992.

In the last two elections the Lib Dems have played their own part in cutting
Tory representation in the Commons. The party more than doubled its number of
seats in 1997 and took seven scalps from the Tories in 2001. This time they face
two dilemmas. Is it better to claim a larger national share of the vote or to
concentrate on well-chosen targets that they might win? Can they appeal both to
discontented voters in Labour heartland seats and to disenchanted Tories in
southern England?

Although some of their seats look vulnerable to the slightest Tory recovery, the
Lib Dems have their eye on the publicity to be won from "decapitating" Tory
frontbenchers. David Davis (Haltemprice and Howden), Tim Collins (Westmorland
and Lonsdale), Theresa May (Maidenhead) and Oliver Letwin (West Dorset) will all
be under pressure as Labour voters are wooed to vote tactically.

By-election victories in Brent East and Leicester South, and local government
spectaculars in places such as Newcastle, have given the Lib Dems a taste for
winning against Labour too. But there are few obvious marginals to target except
Cardiff Central and Birmingham Yardley (where Estelle Morris is standing down).

Any targeted successes aside, Labour can afford to look relatively benignly on
any Lib Dem advance. A 7% swing from Labour to the Lib Dems on the back of a
campaign against the war (and the prime minister), top-up fees and council tax
could give the Lib Dems the best third party election result since the 1920s.
However, of their extra 35 seats, just eight would be gained from Labour.

The Tories would make some gains, but the main impact would be rearranging the
deckchairs among the opposition parties rather than cutting into the
government's majority.

As in 2001, Labour purports to be worried about low turnout. Although turnout
declined most in Labour safe seats last time, its overall impact was limited.
The polls indicate that turnout next month will be much the same as, or a little
lower than, the 59% of 2002. In contrast there have been rising levels of
participation at most other types of election, helped in part by postal votes.

The key is likely to be the campaign. A lively campaign during which the result
of the election becomes in doubt, will increase turnout; if the result seems a
foregone conclusion come election day, then turnout may hit new lows.

The concentration of all the parties on wooing older people is based on the fact
that they are much more likely to vote than the young. However, it would take a
sizeable differential swing among this group to change the overall course of the
election - and Gordon Brown's budget was expressly designed to keep sufficient
numbers of them in the Labour camp.

Perhaps more worrying, especially for the prime minister, is the impact of low
turnout and any swing away from Labour on the quality of his mandate. If turnout
falls to 55%, Labour could win a parliamentary majority with the votes of fewer
than 10m electors. That would be Labour's second worst popular vote since 1935
(Michael Foot managed just 8.5m votes in 1983) and mean that Blair had attracted
the positive support of little more than one in five of all electors.

Whatever the overall drift of the election, a volatile electorate is quite
capable of producing the odd shock result. In 2001 it was Dr Richard Taylor's
victory for the Kidderminster hospital campaigners in Wyre Forest, aided by the
Lib Dems not contesting the seat.

This time George Galloway's decision to stand for Respect against Oona King in
Bethnal Green and Bow takes on extra significance, with 50% of the population
there declaring themselves Muslim in the 2001 census. Respect topped the poll at
the 2004 European parliament elections in the borough of Tower Hamlets and the
seat could be won by the party that polls about a third of the total vote.

In most cases, though, minor parties are likely to influence the outcome rather
than win a seat. Jack Straw, the foreign secretary, is said to be nervous about
his contest in Blackburn, where a quarter of the population is Muslim and where
the BNP has been active.

The UKIP threat has probably diminished since the party showed itself prone to
splits and personality disputes, but the Tories cannot afford to turn their
backs wherever English coastal areas and an elderly population coincide.

The Greens are condemned to the wilderness by the electoral system, but it is
possible that support for them could help the Lib Dems unseat a Labour MP in
university towns such as Bristol, Cambridge or Leeds.

Colin Rallings and Michael Thrasher run Plymouth University's elections centre


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: Election Special 2005

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              152 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             April 10, 2005, Sunday

Election! Take evasive action now Politicians to the left of us, politicians to
the right of us...  QUENTIN LETTS offers some novel ways of escaping the
campaign

BYLINE: By QUENTIN LETTS

SECTION: News; Focus; Pg. 018

LENGTH: 615 words

Are you thinking what we're thinking? Has the general election campaign already
gone on too long? Airwaves crackle with political argument; soon the party
election broadcasts will start. It is only five days since the campaign
officially began and already you want to scream: "Enough! enough!" So how,
between now and polling day, can you lead a politics-free life? Here are a few
suggestions:

TV and radio: immediately retune any wireless away from BBC Radio 4, especially
the Today programme. Instead, try Terry Wogan on Radio 2. Televisions should be
tuned to the shopping channels or UK Gold. That way, the only political
references will be to the strike-prone 1970s' governments of Messrs Wilson,
Heath and Callaghan.

Take a religious retreat: Buddhist-inclined Gaia House, in South Devon, promises
silent days fostering "stillness and a deepening understanding of the nature of
life". In mid-April it has a two-day course on "the great mother and the
sky-like mind", priced attractively at pounds 80.

Watch some cricket: the domestic season has just begun and a cricket match can
often seem to bring time to a halt, particularly if the bowling attack has found
a steady line and length. Conversation among spectators tends to be about
players' averages, the Duckworth-Lewis method, Murali's action, and the fillings
in the baps of your packed lunch. Politics? Never.

Foreign travel: Antarctica, sadly, is not at its best at this time of year (too
cold), Everest is booked solid for years, and on the French Riviera there is an
intolerable chance of bumping into John Prescott. However, lastminute.com offers
a selection of cruises: nine nights down the California coast on the five-star
Mercury, a Mexican Riviera cruise on the Carnival Spirit, or excursions on the
Oosterdam, sailing out of San Diego. All chug in at around pounds 1,000 and on
all these vessels, it is safe to say, the names of Tessa Jowell, Mark Oaten and
Andrew Lansley will be entirely unknown.

Domestic travel: the last residents of St Kilda left the island in the 1930s,
but it may be time to recolonise the Outer Hebridean outcrop that lies 41 miles
west of Benbecula. Offering little more than the ghost of the Great Auk for
company, plus 65,000 fulmars (edible), St Kilda is unlikely to be visited by a
Sky News crew or even a glad-handing Green.

House arrest: an anonymous call to MI5 should be enough to make yourself the
object of one of the Home Secretary's shiny new control orders. You will not
only be prevented from leaving your property - which will save you from being
bearded by that hearty Ukip lady at the shopping precinct - but officers will
stop any Lib Dems approaching your front door.

London clubland: at establishments such as the Travellers' (nothing to do with
gipsies) it should be possible to avoid most election fever: they're still
coming to terms with the Reform Act. At the Athenaeum there is a risk of bumping
into the wetter type of Anglican bishop, but at the Savile Club conversation at
breakfast is forbidden. Anyone who dares quote the latest opinion poll can be
quelled with a sharp "Shush!"

Submersion: provided you do not pose a threat to national security, the Royal
Navy will sell you one of its old submarines. The going rate for a
diesel-powered sub is pounds 244million. As the Canadian navy recently found
when it bought HMS Upholder (which promptly broke down mid-cruise), a
second-hand sub is not the most reliable craft but beneath the waves the new
owner is guaranteed to be out of earshot of even John Reid, Secretary of State
for Insults.

Before you leave, though, do please ensure that you have filled in your postal
vote form.

LOAD-DATE: April 10, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              153 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 9, 2005
                              Correction Appended

Saturday Review: Essay: Last orders: GK Chesterton, who saw the traditional inn
as a symbol of freedom, has often been invoked by politicians addressing
questions of English identity. But, writes Patrick Wright, behind his quaint
vision of thatched cottages, rolling roads and stoical natives lies an unsavoury
xenophobia

BYLINE: Patrick Wright

SECTION: Guardian Saturday Pages, Pg. 4

LENGTH: 3689 words


It is largely thanks to Gordon Brown that some of the more thoughtful political
speeches of 2004 were concerned with British national identity, and the values
around which a more devolved and various United Kingdom might cohere. Using
platforms provided by the National Council for Voluntary Organisations (February
18) and the British Council (July 8), the chancellor argued for a culture that
should be at once enterprising and attentive to the "golden thread" running
through British history. Careful to dissociate himself from backward-looking
nostalgia, he argued for an open and renewable sense of national identity in
which prominence is given to civic values and the sense of duty and fair play.

That vision of a "New Britain", where economic prosperity is harmonised with
social justice, may indeed be something over which to fight an election. Yet
until last month, when our former home secretary David Blunkett came out
fighting for "a New England", the thought of a resurgent Englishness had
definitely not inspired Brown, nor any of his Cabinet colleagues, to comparable
flights. It is surely not just because both Brown and Blair are Scottish that
"the English question" has been met with palpable silence in government circles.
Nor is that silence merely a neutral acknowledgement of the difficulty (also
faced by the monarchy as plans were drawn up for today's Royal wedding and, for
that matter, by the compiler of the bestseller The Pocket Book of Patriotism )
of invoking Englishness without undermining your wider appeals to British
identity.

In recent years, the thought of Englishness has provoked a positive sense of
embarrassment of the kind that, during Blair's first term, made the rebranded
politicians of "New Labour" comically reluctant to be photographed near anything
resembling an old building. It has been permissible to emphasise the virtues of
regionalism within Europe, but English nationalism has been denied, as Blunkett
felt licensed to complain from his new position on the sidelines, as an
incorrigibly primitive beast: "festering, resentful" and best kept carefully
locked up in its cave.

Blunkett sounded his own cautions about Enoch Powell, and the xenophobic
fulminations that defender of the realm launched in the 1960s. Yet if there is
good reason to resist the idea of "little England", it may also be connected to
the continued circulation of a famous couplet from a poem written before the
first world war:

"Smile at us, pay us, pass us; but do not quite forget.

For we are the people of England, that never have spoken yet."

In 1997, those lines from GK Chesterton's "The Secret People" were brandished by
Martin Bell as he opposed Neil Hamilton in the Tatton by-election. In June 1999,
James Gray, the Scottish Tory MP for North Wiltshire, quoted them as he argued
against the injustice of a post-devolutionary situation in which MPs for
Scotland, now established under its own national parliament, nevertheless
retained power to make decisions over England. In February 2002, they were used
by Iain Duncan Smith on behalf of farmers whose animals were beset by foot and
mouth disease. Favoured by fox-hunting militants, they have also appeared on the
banners of Countryside Alliance marchers: brandished as the slogan of a rural
population considered to be oppressed by the values of the urban majority and a
Labour government that has no respect for rural traditions. They have been
recited by the "Campaign for an English Parliament" and also by the UK
Independence party, for whom Chesterton's "secret people" are patriots oppressed
by the remote decision of the European Community.

If these lines from Chesterton remain one of the most persistently quoted
expressions of English identity, this may be because their definition of
Englishness differs from other well-known examples. Various figures, including
most famously the Tory prime minister Stanley Baldwin on St George's Day 1925
and George Orwell in 1940, have reached their definitions of national identity
by drawing up lists of characteristic qualities or traits. Chesterton had his
preferences too, but the Englishness of his "secret people" is not just an
inventory. It is, instead, a defensive stance adopted against the power of the
state and the transformations that follow in the wake of modernisation and
change. As such, Chesterton's version of Englishness has proved more easily
adjustable to changing times than Orwell's more static list of smoky towns,
clattering clogs, red pillar-boxes, autumnal mists and bicycling old maids (a
collection of "characteristic fragments" that seemed threadbare and sadly
exhausted when John Major tried to reorientate them towards "middle England" in
the early 90s). It has also shown far greater persistence than the horse-drawn
ploughs that Baldwin declared to be an eternal and primordially English sight
just as the usurping tractor was coming over the hill, on St George's Day in
1925.

Far more emphatically than Orwell's or Baldwin's, Chesterton's "Englishry" finds
its essence in an adjustable sense of being opposed to the prevailing trends of
the present. It is a semi-instinctive theory of encroachment that allows even
the most well-placed man of the world to imagine himself a member of an
endangered aboriginal minority: a freedom fighter striking out against "alien"
values and the infernal works of a usurping state.

So what are the sources of this defensive and surprisingly persistent way of
thinking about English identity? Chesterton's "The Secret People" was first
published in 1907 in a magazine called The Neolith. Its "secret" Englishmen can
be imagined as a group of Anglo-Saxon men seated in an unrenovated pub: slow but
steadfast, unschooled but instinctively wise. These representatives of native
common sense have sat there, silently drinking their undoubtedly real ale while
the centuries have unfolded outside and sometimes come crashing in through the
door. They have seen the comings and goings of sundry invaders, and gained
nothing through a long succession of rulers - from Norman barons to the
triumphant puritans of the civil war. Some may have put down their glasses and
wandered off to fight with Nelson at Trafalgar ("dying like lions to keep
ourselves in chains"). In general, however, these English natives have not
responded enthusiastically to those who have tried to rally them to the defence
of their own interests: "A few men talked of freedom, while England talked of
ale."

Chesterton, who died in 1936, cannot have seen "binge-drinking" of the kind that
nowadays tends to alarm even half-drunk observers of the English Saturday night.
He did, however, find his own way of coming down on the side of the alehouse. He
treated beer as both the desire and customary right of the increasingly put-upon
native Englishman. He developed this idea in his argument with the Fabian
socialists who imagined building up a strong and expert state as an instrument
of enlightened social reform. Working-class alcoholism was a matter of concern
for the Fabians (as it was for many European socialist parties seeking a wider,
and non-drunken, franchise at the opening of the 20th century). With his
long-standing friend Hilaire Belloc, who also praised the traditional pub as "a
fortress of virtue" in a degenerating present in which "nothing . . . is capable
of endurance", Chesterton argued strongly against these meddlesome Fabian
reformers. Writing in AR Orage's journal The New Age in 1908, he declared "Drink
and property have been swelled in our world into abominations . . . The proposed
abolition of personal property has its only practical parallel in teetotalism."
So this curious Edwardian symbolism grew up, in which beer came to be associated
with traditional English freedom, while the joyless and over-intellectual Fabian
meddlers such as HG Wells and George Bernard Shaw put themselves to bed with
warm cocoa.

Far from being an outcrop of Tory thinking, Chesterton's idea of England's
"secret people" originated as part of this dispute within Edwardian socialism
and the radical Liberalism of that time. Chesterton and Belloc came to be known
as "Distributists", arguing, against both monopoly capitalism and state
socialism, that property and ownership of the "means of production" should be as
widely spread as possible. Their vision was variously shaped by Catholicism,
anarchism, Chartism, and also the decentralising thought of guild socialism, a
movement that followed William Morris and John Ruskin in finding inspiration in
the craft guilds of the medieval age. Their beleaguered "England" was on the
side of the people against industrialism, monopoly capitalism and the rules and
bureaucrats of what Belloc called "the servile state". Chesterton and Belloc
would join the Society for the Protection of Ancient Buildings in seeking to
preserve traditional "thatched" roofs against the big businesses that could
spend fortunes pushing synthetic alternatives. Yet if theirs was emphatically a
"little England", this was also because it entailed a strong rejection of
British imperialism.

Chesterton elaborated on this aspect of his Englishness in an article entitled
"On Rudyard Kipling and making the world small", included in his book Heretics
(1905). Here he took issue with the epigram in which Kipling asked "what can
they know of England who only England know?" It was, contended Chesterton, "a
far deeper and sharper question to ask, 'What can they know of England who know
only the world?'" As an imperial "globe trotter", Kipling may certainly "know
the world; he is a man of the world, with all the narrowness that belongs to
those imprisoned in that planet. He knows England as an intelligent English
gentleman knows Venice." Insisting that Kipling's devotion to England was the
outcome not of love but of critical thought, Chesterton values it far less than
the "real" (by which he means instinctive and unreflected) patriotism of the
Irish or the Boers, whom Kipling had recently "hounded down in South Africa".

Belloc, who had also strongly opposed the Boer war and British colonialism in
Africa, shared Chesterton's insistence that "the 'large ideas' prosper when it
is not a question of thinking in continents, but of understanding a few
two-legged men". It was in the same spirit of epic belittlement that Belloc
pronounced, after passing through Ely on an excursion into the fens, that "the
corner of a corner of England is infinite, and can never be exhausted".

This attempt to dissociate "England" from the British empire may indeed sound
attractive. Yet it remained a thoroughly defensive definition of Englishness -
one that was formulated in bitter awareness that the world was actually moving
in the opposite direction. Its anti-imperialism was less a critical engagement
with the British empire, than an act of retreat and even denial. Though
presented as a cosmic locale, Chesterton's England was actually also a last
ditch, no sooner occupied than it had to be defended against all sorts of
encroaching modern forces.

Chesterton himself demonstrated this in 1914, when he published his comic novel
The Flying Inn . This work shows beleaguered English virtues lined up against a
host of parodied modern absurdities. It opens with Humphrey Pump, whose ancient
pub, The Old Ship, lies by an apple orchard in a little village named
Pebbleswick. All would have remained well in this organic English nook, except
that the British government, thanks to an over-intellectual Cabinet minister
named Lord Ivywood, has succumbed to alien influences. In what may have been
intended as a comment on the cranky faddishness of Fabian intellectuals, Ivywood
has fallen under the spell of a zealous Islamic prophet, and imposed a ban on
alcohol. The Old Ship may long have been a refuge for those who wished that, in
Belloc's phrase, "the fear of mutation should be set at rest". But close it
must, so Pump and his friends uproot their pub sign, take a barrel and a large
cheese and set off around the country: coming out of hiding to erect their pub
sign at a series of fugitive locations, and then melting away again as the
authorities catch up.

While it contains the famous poem praising "the rolling English road" (made, as
readers may recall, by the "rolling English drunkard"), The Flying Inn also
imagines the "nightmare" that follows "when the English oligarchy is run by an
Englishman who hasn't got an English mind". The usurper in question is Lord
Ivywood, against whom Chesterton celebrates the unschooled publican Pump as a
kind of English aborigine who has learned by experience rather than through
books or "academically like an American Professor". Common sense and an
"incorruptible kindliness" lie at the root of Pump"s "Englishry". He also has an
instinctive grasp of his native land, knowing the "English bound aries almost by
intuition". "The deepest thoughts are all commonplaces," as Chesterton writes,
once again lining up unreflected English instinct against the detached and
artificial cleverness of the ruling elite: "If they have to choose between a
meadow and a motor, they forbid the meadow."

The Flying Inn is still admired as a prescient comedy: an early assault on
"political correctness", the taste of pretentious elites, and the interfering
mentality of the centralised state. His position on alcohol will surely be
approved by ex-ultra-leftist Times columnist, Mick Hume, who uses this month's
issue of Roger Scruton's bulletin, The Risk of Freedom, to declare himself a
convert to the cause of binge-drinkers against the nanny state. Chesterton was
also insightful on less frothy themes. His dislike of the scientifically
organised state alerted him early to the dangers of eugenics. His mistrust of
the Fabians was at least partly vindicated in the 30s, when too many of these
self-important thinkers followed the Webbs in embracing Stalin's Soviet Union as
the "New Civilisation" where centralised state planning had really come into its
own. There was nothing fictitious about many of the degradations he and Belloc
opposed in the English landscape; and his doubts about democracy ("government by
the uneducated") did not automatically convert into a Tory worship of the
aristocracy ("government by the badly educated"). His novel The Napoleon of
Notting Hill (1904) is said to have inspired Michael Collins in the struggle for
Irish independence.

Chesterton's lines about "the people of England, that never have spoken yet"
have found many other democratic applications over the years. They were
forcefully evoked in the House of Commons in September 1940, during the debate
that brought down Neville Chamberlain, together with his policies of appeasing
Hitler, and opened the way for Churchill to become prime minister. When the
leader of the Labour party, Arthur Greenwood, rose to speak, Leopold Amery
shouted "Speak for England, Arthur!" from the Conservative benches.

In 1977, the Scottish writer Tom Nairn used the couplet from Chesterton's "The
Secret People" in his book The Break Up of Britain . He quoted it at the head of
a chapter arguing for a new and critically informed conception of English
identity (to be produced by such initiatives as the folk music revival and
Raphael Samuel's History Workshop movement) that would enable the English
majority to dissociate their sense of identity from the unitary British state,
thereby making Scottish independence a less threatening prospect. In 1988,
Chesterton's lines helped to inspire a modest "Movement for Middle England",
founded in Leicester shortly before the idea of "Middle Eng land" was taken over
by John Major and identified with the Conservative middle classes. This
initiative (subsequently relaunched as "Devolve!") announced itself an
anti-chauvinist campaign, which aimed for the "empowerment of ordinary people"
and aspired to give native East Midlanders a cultural vitality of the kind
possessed by immigrant communities in the region.

The Movement for Middle England may not have been racist, as some observers
suspected at the time. Yet the dangers of Chesterton's way of thinking about
England as an organic realm threatened by modern forces were also evident from
the start.

In the poem, "The Ballad of the White Horse" (1911), the malevolent encroacher
is only a weed creeping inward to obscure the ancient horse carved in the chalk
of a Wessex hillside:

"The turf crawled and the fungus crept,

and the little sorrel, while all men slept,

Unwrought the work of man."

Yet in "The Secret People", the ever-present agents of destruction had already
been given human form. They appear as the nullifying bureaucrats of the modern
state:

"Lords without anger and honour, who dare not carry their swords.

They fight by shuffling papers; they have bright dead alien eyes.

The racial alien is also dragged in: "the cringing Jew," accompanied as so often
in anti-semitic iconography, by his loyal sidekick "the staggering lawyer".

These lines, which are generally not excerpted in dictionaries of quotations,
indicate that qualities distinct from Pump's "incorruptible kindliness" may be
found at the heart of Chesterton's England. Indeed, they suggest it may be
impossible to adopt the values of secret "England", without also recognising a
current of fear and loathing that brings a whole series of "alien" destroyers
streaming by.

Anti-semitism makes all too many appearances in the work of both Chesterton and
Belloc. Admirers of their Englishness have tried to minimise this uncomfortable
fact, insisting that Chesterton was not a doctrinal anti-semite of the Nazi
variety, and pointing out that anti-semitism was more or less endemic in the
culture of the time. These apologies won't do. Chestertonian Englishness is
founded on an apprehension of alien threats, which are built into its very
heart. Like the Muslim prophet, the rapacious industrialist, the officious state
bureaucrat and the interfering Fabian intellectual, the Alien Jew (treated as
the personification of a locally destructive international financial system) is
not just an unfortunate "period" detail. He is a constellating force without
which Chesterton's beleaguered "England" would lose not just its freedom to
snigger but also its clarity and moral definition.

If the Chestertonian idea of England has persisted, so too have its defining
phobias.

Chesterton's "The Secret People" was an inspiration to This England, the widely
distributed heritage quarterly, which, since its launch in the late 60s, has
accompanied its celebration of steam engines, hedgerows, cathedrals and
choirboys with editorials expressing a horror of immigration and
"multiculturalism". An ostensibly comic strand of fiction persists as well. In
1995, the journalist and historian Andrew Roberts published The Aachen
Memorandum , a slight but symptomatic novel in which an "English Resistance
Movement", consisting mostly of Roberts and his thinly disguised friends, rise
up against a German-dominated European super-state, which bans Christmas trees,
Hollywood films, and elaborates interfering rules concerning the right, or
otherwise, of native English women to shave their armpits. Pursuing the same
theme of bunkered Englishness, Richard Littlejohn came up with To Hell in a
Handcart (2001), a sniggering fulmination directed against predictable targets -
from the political correctness of the state functionary to racism awareness
training. This book serves quite adequately to bring us up to a present in which
Chesterton's "The Secret People" appears unexpurgated as "poem of the month" on
the British National Party's website.

Chesterton's vision of "secret" England dates from nearly a century ago, but it
expresses a way of thinking about identity and change that remains influential
to this day. It is by no means a dominant outlook, yet its persistence in an age
increasingly defined by global mobility, transnational identities, and a
comparative weakening of the nation-state, justifies the sense of caution that
many feel about English nationalism. In polarising the past from the present, it
can only produce a kippered idea of England in which the very thought of
difference or change is instantly identified with degeneration, corruption and
death. Chesterton and Belloc may have associated their "remaining" England with
Catholic values, but it was too often also a Philistine England, in which
"native commonsense" becomes indistinguishable from "unspoken" prejudice; and in
which the elegiac spirit is no longer content to linger over real ale in
unmodernised pubs, but becomes militant and vicious. In too many versions, it is
a secret England not because its people are genuinely too oppressed to speak,
but because they prefer to sit muttering over their glasses: sharing
"unspeakable" ideas that are neither remotely adequate to the issues they
pretend to address nor capable of commanding public debate.

This vision of England as a beleaguered organic community does nothing to
clarify the problems it addresses. Instead, it wraps them in a grossly
simplified narrative of (old) authenticity and (new) corruption, and then sends
out its followers in search of scapegoats. In 1914, Chesterton's roving
commonsensical publican Pump made do with a pub sign, a cheese and a barrel of
beer. But, if last year's Labour party conference is anything to go by, his
instinctive, fox-hunting descendants prefer to dump dead animals in the streets
of Brighton, and to snarl anti-semitic insults at Gerald Kaufman. Let us, by all
means, look forward to greater political and cultural vitality within England.
Nobody, however, should mistake a democratic general election for a
Chestertonian seizure in which terrorists, immigrants, travellers, contaminating
NHS "superbugs", binge-drinking yobs and "Europe" are used, either explicitly or
"secretly", to promise a national recovery organised around Michael Howard's
assertion that "the first responsibility of government is to control the
nation's borders".


LOAD-DATE: April 9, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

CORRECTION-DATE: April 30, 2005

CORRECTION:  In an essay on GK Chesterton and Englishness, some dates and events
concerning the second world war became conflated; we said that the debate that
brought down the prime minister, Neville Chamberlain, had taken place in
September 1940, and that during that debate Leo Amery famously called to Arthur
Greenwood, leader of the opposition: "Speak for England, Arthur" (Last orders,
Review, page 4, April 9). Chamberlain tendered his resignation on May 10 1940
after a debate in the Commons criticising his conduct of the war. Amery's call
to the Labour leader took place in a debate on September 2 1939, the day before
war was declared.

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              154 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                    The Sun

                                 April 9, 2005

GILLS IN UKIP ROW

BYLINE: Iain King

SECTION: FOOTBALL; TEAM NEWS

LENGTH: 78 words


GORDON TAYLOR has slammed Gillingham for allowing the controversial UK
Independence Party to sponsor today's match with Burnley.

The PFA chief executive said UKIP's views on immigration were not compatible
with footballers travelling freely across Europe.

He said: "The football game in England is very cosmopolitan and Gillingham
themselves have foreign players."

UKIP Euro MP Nigel Farage said: "I can only assume he was speaking from
ignorance."


LOAD-DATE: April 20, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                    Copyright 2005 NEWS GROUP NEWSPAPERS LTD

                              155 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 9, 2005, Saturday

Load of old ballots

BYLINE: Dick Morris

SECTION: Features; Weekend Review 10

LENGTH: 1058 words


SO NOW WHO DO WE VOTE FOR?

BY JOHN HARRIS

Faber and Faber

£7.99; 160pp

ISBN 0 571 22422 9

£6.79 (p&p £2.25)

0870 1608080

VOTE FOR...WHO?

BY JONATHAN MAITLAND

Metro Publishing

£9.99; 288

ISBN 0571224229

£8.49 (p&p £2.25)

0870 1608080

Ogden Nash must have anticipated John Harris's book when he wrote his ditty:

The electorate has such delicate palates That they can find no one for whom to
cast their ballots And when someone terrible gets elected They say: "There,
that's just what I expected."

A disillusioned Labourite who signed his party membership card at the age of 15
- he calls it the secular equivalent of "confirmation" -Harris has watched with
angst new Labour descend into pragmatism, privatisation, and privilege. Harris
worries that Blair seems "to luxuriate in his role as George W. Bush's most
treasured PR prop" and he sternly admonishes us that it is our responsibility to
punish the PM's transgressions: "If a government screws up, it has to be held to
account."

But, alas, the Lib Dems have let Mr Harris down. It seems that "in the last two
years" this party he might once have considered has taken "a marked stride to
the Right" -and for Harris this is no compliment. He complains that the party
makes him feel "uncomfortably muddled" and frets that a vote for Kennedy's crew
might open the door to Howard's.

His conclusion? Well, not to give the ending away, but he doesn't really have
one.

He suggests that it all depends on where you live. In a marginal district you'd
better stick with Labour or the Tories might win. But in constituencies where
Labour is likely to win handily, there are all sorts of vehicles that present
themselves for a protest vote. Meanwhile, he fills his appendix with a list of
suitable Labourites whose ideology meets his approval. But Harris seems to have
forgotten that the appendix is a useless organ -leftist as they come, Labour MPs
will still empower Blair and the sell-outs Harris so disdains.

But, for all his almost caricatured vitriol, there is something refreshing about
Harris's book. He has a clear, if outdated, ideology and a sharp sense of who he
is and where he stands. Unsuitable as these traits may be in a politician, they
are worth reading when they appear in a scribe.

But the irony of Harris's harsh criticism of the forces of privilege and the
defenders of wealth is that he has the wrong enemies. A lifetime of dissent has
left him with a cast of adversaries that is as out-of-date as his thinking is in
general. Indeed, he likely considers intellectual obsolescence as a kind of
pedigree.

What Harris neglects is really venue. He rails against pro-choice policies in
education and healthcare because he claims they permit elitism and leave
inadequate services for the poor. He worries about those who cannot get into
good hospitals or good schools. But he forgets -or has yet to learn -that
Westminster isn't where it's at. Brussels is. The UK's control over its own
destiny is being shipped over the Channel so rapidly that the British voter
increasingly has about as much practical power as the monarch herself. The very
stultification of British politics of which Harris complains stems, in part,
from the fact that 70 per cent of the laws passed by Parliament are, in fact,
originated by the EU bureaucracy.

But every election witnesses the mass migration of the Red Top readers into the
political process. Their numbers dwarf the more cultivated subscribers to this
and other longer form organs, but, alas for the elites, it is still one person,
one vote. To explain matters to these voters who only poke their heads above the
ground as election day nears, Jonathan Maitland has written a guide to politics
for the uninformed entitled: Vote for Who?

If you have just arrived from a lifetime in Outer Mongolia and want to get with
what's going on quickly and painlessly, Maitland is your man. In an easy-to read
and surprisingly insightful but blessedly short book, he summarises -and I do
mean summarises -it all. Who holds power in the UK? How do politicians manage to
spin their way to the top? What is the role of the average MP in government he
says they have "less power than a traffic warden". Why do we have a two-party
system? And, oh yes, why is the sky blue?

He seems to make a good living writing such things as "the amount of power
ministers have depends on...what department they are in charge of and their own
personality and ability". And, when it comes to his chapter on how to achieve
political power as an average person he suggests a novel "option" -"kill
yourself". Despite what he admits are its "obvious drawbacks", he notes
approvingly of the suicide of suffragette Emily Davidson who was trampled to
death by the King's horse Anmer "as it was steaming toward the finishing line at
the Derby". (For those of fainter heart, he suggests writing to your local MP
and living to tell about it.) In his tour d'horizon, Maitland does recognise
what Harris does not: the looming power of Europe over the UK political process.
But, in his breezy way, he lists the arguments pro and con and then moves on.

Elections bring forth books like these, a necessary concomitant of the potent
cocktail of free ballots and a free press. But the frustration evident in
Harris's work lingers long after one closes its cover. Does the UK voter have a
true choice? Do he or she have real options for change? Do the parties present
these choices? Or has consensus politics and spin taken them away...and Europe
eloped with what little was left?

Dick Morris is a longtime political consultant for Bill Clinton and now works as
a political strategist for the UK Independence Party

What's more...

* The Vote: How It Was Won, and How It Was Undermined by Paul Foot (Viking): the
fight for universal suffrage, from the Civil War to the present

* Politico's Guide to the General Election by Simon Henig and Lewis Baston

* www.electionworld.org

Global election database

* Enough is Enough or The Emergency Government by Mark Lawson (Picador):
forthcoming political thriller focusing on Harold Wilson

* Election (Paramount DVD): wonderful high-school take on the politics of spin,
directed by Alexander Payne, with Matthew Broderick and Reese Witherspoon


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              156 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 7, 2005

THE ISSUE THAT MATTERS MOST TO ME; LEADER - GENERAL ELECTION 2005

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; LEADER; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 1385 words


EDWINA CURRIE, author and former Health minister The state of the health service
is the biggest election issue for me. I accept that the amount of money spent on
the NHS has doubled but what is catastrophic is the amount being spent on direct
patient care, which has only risen by five per cent.

It's no wonder there are long queues at hospitals - it's a disgrace. I saw this
myself recently when my mother died, as she had spent the previous months in and
out of hospitals.

I'm full of admiration for the staff but they're operating under very difficult
circumstances.

BARRY NORMAN, film critic Education and the way that's being handled, along with
the health service (where there have been improvements but not nearly enough)
are two major issues which concern me.

I think Europe is very important - we'd be much more sensible getting deeply
involved at the heart of it rather than being dependent on America, as we are at
the moment.

It's well known that I support the Liberal Democrats, and I believe in their
policies - particularly in raising income tax on incomes of more than £100,000 a
year, and spending the money on looking after those who need it most, such as
the elderly, and making sure university education is free.

ZAC GOLDSMITH, editor of The Ecologist magazine Last week a former adviser to
President Bush announced that:

"The ability of the planet's ecosystems to sustain future generations can no
longer be taken for granted." It doesn't get much worse than that, and
worryingly, his is not an isolated view.

This is the biggest issue we face, and the political parties must formulate
solutions. We need to stop funding oil projects around the world;

stop building new airports. We need to start shortening the links between
consumers and food producers in particular to help regenerate struggling rural
communities.

DR LAVINIA BYRNE, broadcaster and Catholic commentator The best-kept secret in
the world:

give seven-year-olds a good sense of self, help them learn about community;
teach them to deal with their moods and to think about the consequences of what
they do;

tank them up with learning to the fullness of their capacity and bingo - you get
happy, rounded individuals. The formula is neat:

know yourself, know other people and do your very best.

That is why I'd put education at the very top of my political hit list.

Forget all our social problems;

they'd evaporate if we had good schools and valued our teachers.

STEVE MOXON, Home Office whistleblower and author of The Great Immigration
Scandal More than the Iraq war, it is the immigration issue which shows the
depths of repeated Government lying. There remains no control in any area of
immigration or asylum.

The complete laxity is partly a vote-rigging ploy. The Government has complete
contempt for ordinary people, all of whom are regarded as racists for not
supporting the selfinterested narcissism of political correctness. The Lib Dems
are as bad, which is why I no longer support them. The Conservatives' quotas do
not address the roots of the problem, and introduce unfairness.

The only party that can enact necessary change is the one that advocates
withdrawal from the EU: Ukip.

VIRGINIA IRONSIDE, agony aunt Education, education, education - that's what Tony
Blair promised, and what's the result? Teachers unable to cope with their
pupils, exclusions, and many children leaving school barely literate.

Teachers should be paid double, university fees should be dropped, and grants
made available to students. Without a solid educational grounding how can a
society be expected to cope?

DR PHIL HAMMOND, TV medic Labour are relying on doctors and nurses to convince
the electorate that the NHS has been saved, but many health workers feel
deceived about the Iraq war and will find it hard to support the Government.

The key health issue is whether the NHS has progressed enough to justify
£186million a day (and rising).

Long waiting times have come down, and there are improved survival rates for
cancer and heart disease, though not necessarily due to the reforms. The
Government's obsession with targets suggests they don't trust the front-line
staff, and many are disillusioned at practising tickbox medicine. Labour will
need to produce good evidence that people's health is improving as a result of
the investment, and I doubt they can.

COLONEL MIKE DEWAR, military commentator Most important for me is a party that
recognises that we cannot take risks with the nation's security by cutting the
Armed Forces to such an extent that they are too stretched to do their job
properly. I believe that stage has already been reached and that the latest
Labour cuts to the Forces are a cut too far.

The Tories have pledged to restore two infantry battalions and three frigates.
If we intend to continue to play our part in the world, a strong and properly
resourced Armed Forces are part of that equation.

DAVID BELLAMY OBE, botanist I want a government that will do something about
hooligans using political correctness as an excuse to undermine everything
Britain used to stand for. I want free speech, fair play and a fair countryside
bursting with natural history while providing local food and a place for
healthful recreation and solace. My vote will go to the party that will stand up
for these rights, and declare a moratorium on any further desecration of our
countryside with wind turbines.

MARCELLE D'ARGY SMITH, former editor of Cosmopolitan Like millions of people I
don't forgive Blair the Iraq war. There never were any WMDs and he knew it.We
were not told the truth. I cannot and will not give my vote to man who lies,
distorts, manipulates. A man concerned with his own greater glory on a world
stage. A man who allies himself with the worst US president anyone can remember.
Yes, I'm deeply concerned with the NHS. Plus education and pensions trouble me
greatly. I'm a strong pro-European so the Lib Dems will get my vote.

NICK CHARLES MBE, founder of the Chaucer clinic for alcohol abuse Alcohol abuse
has reached epidemic proportions. The Government and leisure industry are united
in wishing to extend the licensing hours so alcohol is available 24 hours a day.

The reason - money. The average age of applications at Chaucer has dropped from
age 52 to 27 years and seven months in eight years. So what would be my wish for
the election? A Tory win, and with it their realisation that the care in the
community policy needs urgent attention in the alcohol addiction field.

JG BALLARD, author Blair has misled us on many issues but chiefly the war in
Iraq. We will have to live with the consequences of going to war for many years.

Aside from the now destabilised Middle East, here in Britain a climate of fear
has been created that has allowed Blair to vastly manipulate the public. While I
don't think Blair is a liar, I do believe he is selfdeluding, believing only
what he needs to believe.

MAX CLIFFORD, PR guru A lack of basic hygiene in our hospitals undermines the
very essence of the NHS and should be made a priority by the hospital
authorities. The Government has already allocated a great deal of money to the
health service but now it is time to ensure that the appropriate authorities
prioritise their spending. And there can be no higher priority than cleanliness:
poor hygiene causes suffering and loss of life. Moreover, it causes fear.
Patients are terrified to go to hospital because they are afraid that, even if
their treatment is uncomplicated, they might end up falling victim to a
horrendous superbug.

KATE O'MARA, actress I shall be voting Conservative and to me the core issue is
crime.

Ordinary people are afraid to go out at night; to leave their cars parked
outside; just to enjoy themselves. When I am on stage in the West End, I come
out of the stage door in the evening with trepidation. I just grab my purse and
run for the nearest Tube. Invariably when I get there, I am faced with utter
mayhem: police all over the place, someone being sick, others drunk and at least
one person lying on the floor bleeding. It is just like being in Hell. This sort
of antisocial behaviour and attendant crime is at the very core of what is wrong
with Britain.

LOAD-DATE: April 7, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              157 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                          THE DAILY TELEGRAPH(LONDON)

                           April 06, 2005, Wednesday

The minor players could still make a major impact OTHER PARTIES

BYLINE: By Brendan Carlin, Alan Cochrane, Richard Savill and Thomas Harding

SECTION: News; Election 2005 Pg. 002

LENGTH: 1724 words

The anti-EU cause

Dreams of a massive General Election breakthrough are long gone for minor
parties campaigning on UK withdrawal from the EU but anti-Brussels sentiment
will still make its mark.

Many sitting MPs, and not necessarily Tories, still fear the strength of an
anti-EU vote which even if it does not capture seats, could well decide which of
the three main parties does.

The UK Independence Party is seeking to shrug off the damaging split with Robert
Kilroy-Silk and field about 500 candidates across the country.

Ukip will focus on 21 seats where the party topped the polls in last June's
European elections - 19 held by Liberal Democrats of Labour, not the Tories.

The South-West will play host to Ukip's main election effort where the party
promises "hand-to-hand combat" with europhile Liberal Democrats.

Mr Kilroy-Silk, now leader of the new-born breakaway Veritas party, aims for
about 100 candidates - enough for the former TV presenter's party to qualify for
a party political broadcast.

Veritas campaigning will largely centre on the East Midlands where the
millionaire himself hopes for victory in Labour-held Erewash and with his high
public profile used as an aid to surounding candidates.

Money is a huge problem for a party created only a matter of weeks ago - "we
haven't got any," moaned one party figure - but one late campaign donation is
expected.

A confident Mr Kilroy-Silk aims to tap into, not so much Tory voters, as
disaffected Labour working class ones mindful that he was once a Labour MP.

Ukip will focus on 21 seats where the party topped the polls in last June's
European elections - 19 held by Liberal Democrats or Labour, not the Tories.

Ukip's main election effort will come in the South-West where the party promises
"hand-to-hand combat" with europhile Liberal Democrats.

For both Veritas and Ukip, the heady days of coming third in last June's polls
with more than 16 per cent of the vote are a distant memory as is the major
funding of Paul Sykes, the Yorkshire millionaire.

The huge opportunities for the party evaporated through a long, rancorous
internal row centring on Mr Kilroy-Silk's ultimately thwarted ambitions for both
the Ukip leadership.

Ukip aims for what sounds like a very ambitious pounds 2 million fighting fund,
way down on the pounds 5 million original target of Nigel Farage, Ukip's leader
on the European Parliament.

Privately, the party still hopes to score five per cent of the national vote,
more than treble its 2001 result.

Mr Farage will fight the Labour-held Thanet South marginal while Roger Knapman,
the party leader, fights Tory-held Totnes seat.

But Ukip insiders say Mick Mahon, a well-known local trawlerman, has their best
chance of success in marginal, Labour-held Falmouth and Camborne.

The Greens:

Up to four MPs is the target of the Green Party on the back of "realistic and
achievable" promises.

The party, which has its own version of a pledge card, promises to be the new
Parliament's "campaigners, scandal-exposers and whistleblowers" and reconnect
with the public.

Among its policies are promises to expose the true costs of the private finance
initiative in schools and hospitals and to demand information that British
troops have not colluded with US war crimes.

Main targets for the Greens are four Labour-held seats: Brighton Pavilion,
Lewisham Deptford, Norwich South and Leeds West.

Scotland:

This election will see Scotland finally pay a Westminster price for devolution
as the number of Scottish MPs falls from 72 to 59.

The drop is an acknowledgement both that Scotland has been traditionally
over-represented at Wesminster but also that it now has its own parliament
deciding health, education and other key issues.

The cutback will assuage some, but not all, of the English anger at Scottish MPs
who 'interfere' in matters of wholly English interest such as tuition fees.

There has been a correspondingly radical re-drawing of constituencies which
offers some exciting new contests.

But media interest is lessened by the focus now largely on the new parliament at
Holyrood.

However, despite devolution , the battle between Tony Blair and Michael Howard
is just as keenly anticipated north of the border as it is elsewhere in the UK.

This is a crucial election for the Scottish Conservatives. They have managed to
re-establish themselves - just about - after their whitewash in 1997 but their
respectable presence in the Scottish Parliament has been almost entirely due to
proportional representation.

In 2001, they managed only one first-past-the-post win in Galloway and Upper
Nithsdale in the shape of Peter Duncan, now Shadow Scottish Secretary and
Scottish Tory chairman

But in a battle of two sitting MPs, he faces a hard fight in the drastically
re-drawn seat in Dumfries and Galloway (check) against Russell Brown, Labour for
the current Dumfries seat.

Labour will, as ever, sweep up the vast bulk of the seats - the only possible
threats to their hegemony in Central Scotland coming in Dunbartonshire East and
Edinburgh South.

But May 5 is almost make or break for SNP leader Alex Salmond. He stepped back
into the top job - after insisting he would do no such thing - following his
party's dismal 19 per cent showing in the European elections last year.

Mr Salmond has no option. In this election he has to go for broke.

Other than Charles Kennedy and Sir 'Ming' Campbell, no-one in Scotland knows who
the existing Liberal Democrat MPs are.

But that is unlikely to stop the party winning a respectable handful of seats
again - thanks largely to the "Charlie factor".

Northern Ireland

If Tony Blair wins the general election, the political train wreck that will
greet him in Northern Ireland should not provide a happy chapter in his memoirs.

After eight years of attempting to find a political solution in Ulster by
accommodating Sinn Fein and the IRA, Mr Blair's legacy will be the wrecker of
the middle ground parties.

The IRA's most recent crimes might have gone some way to swaying some votes back
to the moderate SDLP, but that is unlikely to be enough to save Northern Ireland
from becoming more politically polarised than before the 1997 election.

There are 18 Westminster constituencies in Northern Ireland, with 11
traditionally held by Unionists and seven by nationalists. Ian Paisley's
Democratic Unionists have six MPs; the Ulster Unionists five; Sinn Fein four and
the SDLP three.

If it had not been for the Provisionals' irrepressible need to rob banks and
murder fellow Roman Catholics, Sinn Fein would probably have wiped out the SDLP
and nationalists would have been represented in Westminster by MPs who refused
to take their seats.

Despite the IRA's callousness towards its own community, demonstrated by the
Robert McCartney murder, the core Sinn Fein vote will hold. Once they have a
grip on a ward, they do not let it go.

They are likely to steal Newry and Armagh as Seamus Mallon, the SDLP incumbent,
retires and it will be a bloody battle for the Foyle seat of John Hume, the
former SDLP leader and architect of the Good Friday Agreement, who has also
stepped down.

If Mark Durkan, the current SDLP boss, fails to win Foyle against Sinn Fein's
Mitchel McLaughlin, he is unlikely to remain in charge of the party.

The election will provide an intriguing test of middle-class Catholics' resolve
to vote Sinn Fein despite the IRA's continued barbarity.

Pollsters believe the republican vote could lose some staunch working class
women voters, sympathetic towards the five McCartney sisters and appalled at
their treatment by Sinn Fein.

There are continued reports that republicans have conducted a poisonous
whispering campaign against the McCartney's accusing them of undermining the
Sinn Fein vote. The sisters have decided not to stand in the elections.

For the Ulster Unionists the poll is likely to prove, in the words of one of its
supporters, "horrendous", with even David Trimble's Upper Bann seat under threat
from the DUP.

If Mr Trimble loses, he will almost certainly forfeit leadership of the party
but has the compensation of an assured seat in the House of Lords.

His party is paying the electoral price of bravely attempting to share devolved
government at Stormont with Sinn Fein. But thanks to the IRA's alleged
intelligence gathering activities and reluctance to disarm, the Northern Ireland
Assembly has been suspended for nearly three years.

Wales

Labour's traditional hegemony in Wales will scarcely be dented in the
forthcoming contest.

But for the Tories, the General Election offers more than a chance of ending the
shame of having no MPs in the Principality.

A Tory General Election across the country as a whole would also guarantee the
people of Wales a multi-option referendum including whether to abolish the body
completely or enhance its powers.

Of the 40 seats in Wales, Labour currently holds 34, Plaid Cymru, which
campaigns for an independent Wales, have four while the Liberal Democrats hold
two.

Since 1997, the Tories have had no MPs in Wales.

But as in Scotland, the creation of the Assembly with elections on a
proportional representation basis, has helped revive Conservative spirits.

The party's biggest target is Labour-held Monmouth where David Davies, the Tory
candidate and local assembly member, needs just a 0.5 per cent swing for
victory.

The Tories have high hopes in four other Labour-held seats: Clwyd West, Conwy,
Preseli Pembrokeshire (ONE SEAT) and Vale of Glamorgan.

But a total of three gains is probably the Conservatives' highest realistic
hope.

As well as Monmouth, Labour face a real prospect of losing Cardiff Central,
currently held by Jon Owen Jones, to the Liberal Democrat challenge of Jenny
Willott.

The Liberal Democrats already captured the city council last year and the fate
of the seat could well be decided by the anti-Iraq war student vote as the
constituency is home to Cardiff University.

On the counter-attack, Labour itself has hopes of ousting one of its main
critics over the war - Adam Price, Plaid Cymru MP for Carmarthen East and
Dinefwr, the man who wanted to impeach the Prime Minister.

Plaid's main hope of a gain will come in Ynys Mon, the Anglesey seat lost to
Labour in 2001.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                     Copyright 2005 Telegraph Group Limited

                              158 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 6, 2005

HICKEY

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 19

LENGTH: 491 words


TORY officials are relieved to see that their leader's uncompromising treatment
of Howard Flight has not harmed their election chances.

Buoyed up by polls showing that voters like Michael Howard's smack of firm
leadership, one wag has come up with a novel way of commemorating the affair. Mr
Howard's campaign helicopter - loaned by a party donor - is from now on, Hickey
learns, to be officially referred to as The Howard Flight.

THE UK Independence Party, meanwhile, is revving up its own unlikely and
somewhat shambolic mode of transport for the weeks ahead. The party's
communications director, Mark Croucher, has been busy putting the finishing
touches to a 1967 Burlington Arrow kit car, which will be emblazoned in the
party's official yellow and purple colours.

Croucher admits: "It's pretty unusual to look at but it's certainly
eye-catching. I bought it on eBay for £410 and it hasn't been on the road for a
few years. There's no roof so we're going to be rather exposed to the elements."

IMITATION, they say, is the sincerest form of flattery but not when it relates
to cult sitcom Little Britain. Channel 4's mindreading illusionist Derren Brown
is concerned that goatee-bearded hypnotist Kenny "look into my eyes" Craig,
played by Matt Lucas, is based on him. "I know Matt and David Walliams a little
and I checked Kenny was nothing to do with me, " he says, "but I'm not really a
hypnotist so maybe it's more Paul McKenna." Ouch.

JEREMY CLARKSON is accustomed to dishing out the occasional spot of verbal abuse
but he could soon be on the receiving end after agreeing to be the guest host on
Have I Got News For You later this month.

Hickey hears that Clarkson will be going head to head with show regulars Paul
Merton and Ian Hislop when he takes the hot seat for the first of the new
series, returning on April 15. "Jeremy will be hosting the first one, " confirms
a spokeswoman. "He's been a guest on the show before so he should know the
ropes."

RONNIE CORBETT is one of Britain's bestloved comedians and it seems the
diminutive 74-year-old attracts special treatment wherever he goes.

"We're enormous fans of little Ronnie, " says Hickey's man from the About Town
chauffeur company as he parked in London's Park Lane where a restaurant awards
bash attended by Ronnie was being held. "Last year our drivers noticed he was
struggling to get in and out of our big Renault Espaces so we've surprised him
by buying a smaller Renault Laguna this year which is more his size."

Looks like being "the only citizen in the UK with a full-length photo in their
passport" is paying off then, Ronnie.

WHILE a few retiring MPs may be shedding a nostalgic tear as their parliamentary
careers come to a close, outspoken former sports minister Tony Banks is not one
of them. When asked about his retirement plans, Banksy, a Chelsea fan, is quite
clear:

"Watch more football and eat more pies, " he says.

LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              159 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                     The Guardian (London) - Final Edition

                                 April 6, 2005

G2: Ten steps to No 10: Should you target Mondeo Man or Worcester Woman? How do
you keep the momentum going? And is it OK to punch the voters in the face? Peter
Hyman, who helped to mastermind Labour's last two campaigns, explains how to win
a general election

BYLINE: Peter Hyman

SECTION: Guardian Features Pages, Pg. 2

LENGTH: 1951 words


'The dog's German, the dog's German." This was the panic-stricken chant that
froze Millbank's war room in 1997. Our most patriotic party election broadcast
ever involved a bulldog, slumbering under John Major, now aroused by Tony
Blair's rhetoric. Breaking his Tory master's leash, he swaggers into the sunset
to join New Labour's vibrant New Britain. (The dog's testicles had been
airbrushed out, apparently because they swayed too ostentatiously and might
cause offence to the more prudish viewers in Middle England. Attention to detail
was everything in those days.) We had invited the dog to appear at a photo
opportunity alongside New Labour's very own political terrier, Peter Mandelson.
But at the 11th hour we had found out that the dog was called Fritz. This stunt
was going to backfire spectacularly. What could we do? Should we cancel the
press? Pretend the dog's name was Churchill? The best New Labour minds were
focused on this defining decision. The owner suddenly appeared. "No, it's not
Fritz," he said. "He's called Fitz." What a relief. Peter Mandelson could now
pose with the bulldog without a care in the world.

Small details matter in elections, because if you get them wrong your opponents
can make days of mischief. But it is the big arguments honed over months and
years that count most. Having worked on the past two Labour campaigns, this, in
my view, is how to win a general election.

1 Start with your values, instincts, ideas

Elections are won and lost on substance. Big ideas, big policies, and the kind
of country we want to be are all at stake, and no amount of election razzmatazz
or rhetorical pyrotechnics will bring success if a party is out of touch or not
clear where it stands on the fundamental issues of the day. New Labour's success
has not been about better presentation but more compelling political ideas -
investment before tax cuts for example, a welfare state where you have
obligations not just rights, work not benefits as the best route out of poverty.

2 Get the strategy right

Good strategy is more important than clever tactics. In the pre-election period,
the Tories have shown themselves to have a misguided strategy but arresting and
headline-grabbing tactics. Labour has the right strategy but their tactics have
not yet taken off. The Tory strategy is to go to the electorate with much the
same approach that lost them the past two elections - rightwing stances playing
on issues such as asylum and Travellers. They have had the luxury of two
leadership elections in the past four years and chosen rightwing anti-reform
candidates in both cases. There is no new Conservative party, there is no real
attempt to move to the centre ground. "Forward not back" is where Labour needs
to be because Howard so clearly embodies the past. "Forward" now needs to be
answered in more inspiring terms. Forward to what? After eight years, Labour
needs to capture the imagination again.

3 Set the right tone

Tone matters in an election almost as much as strategy. Is a party too cocky,
taking the electorate for granted? Are the attacks on opponents too nasty,
making voters turn off the party delivering them, even if they agree with the
substance of the attack? In 2001, we used humour rather than full-frontal
attacks on the Tories. The "Wiggy" poster - William Hague with Thatcher's hair -
made a political point, that Hague was Thatcher's heir but was sufficiently
amusing for people to accept the message. People are right to say that elections
are a battle between fear and hope. The right usually deploys fear, the more
idealistic left knows it has to excite with a vision.

4 Focus on the key voters: soccer mums or Mondeo Man?

Worcester Woman, soccer mums, forgotten majorities, Mondeo Man, floating voters,
traditional voters, first-time voters, 1997 Labour switchers - all of them are
likely to get a visit from a rosette-flourishing canvasser, or be dragged into a
focus group. The number-crunching is for a purpose. Who are the key voters, the
voters who make a difference in those key seats, whom the politicians need to
speak to, for and at? The Tories have decided that the UK Independence party and
the right is their main target audience. Labour has a dilemma between getting
turnout up among its traditional support and targeting the middle-class floating
voter.

5 Put your best clothes in the shop window (and give the rest to charity)

An election is all about putting your most mouth-watering political wares in the
shop window, and discarding those half-baked ideas that will crumble under
election pressure. In 1997, when we invented the pledge card, we knew that
Labour, up against emotive Tory offerings on tax cuts and toughness on crime,
had to be far more precise about what a vote for Labour would mean. The result
was we made five costed and tangible pledges. This has now been copied, with
voters at this election having a choice between Tory pledges that have been
boiled down to 10 words, Labour's five pledges, which contain many promises, and
the Lib-Dems' 10 pledges.

6 Accentuate the political 'choice'

If an election becomes not a choice between competing parties but a referendum
on the government then, however good the record, any grievance becomes a reason
to vote for the other lot. For Labour, the rubric for this election will
therefore be about a choice between Tory and Labour: stability v boom and bust;
investment in public services v Tory cuts; full employment v unemployment;
strong public services v privatised/or paid-for public services.

7 Play to the strengths of the leader

Leaders need to be authentic. They should do what they are comfortable doing and
not try too hard to be something else. In a campaign you are found out. A
leader's job is harder than ever - how do you lead and listen? How do you show
you are in touch with everyday concerns yet willing to do what is right
irrespective of the criticism? The battle between the leaders at this election
will be the most interesting for several elections. Each leader is trying to
shed something. Tony Blair will be trying to put Iraq behind him. Howard should
be, and occasionally is, trying to soften his Tebbit-like hard-boy image.
Kennedy is trying to disprove the lingering belief that he is simply too
lightweight.

8 Set the news agenda - momentum is essential

Twenty-four-hour-news means being on your toes, reacting with speed. It also
means an endless cycle of meetings at party HQ beginning first thing in the
morning. Enthusiastic as I was at the last election, it was a struggle to get
into Millbank by 7am having read all the newspapers. Driving to work one morning
I stopped at a red light on Whitehall and had the Guardian sprawled out over the
dashboard, speed reading the politics coverage, when a police officer smacked on
the window and proceeded to nick me for "not being in control of my vehicle".
Every three or four hours the strategic team meets to plan the next moves, the
day ahead. Orders will be barked out: "Find me five things Howard has said on
the minimum wage." "Get me 100 homeowners at a rally in Wolverhampton tomorrow
morning." "Compile a dossier on Tory cuts in the NHS."

Momentum is the most sought-after and hardest commodity to acquire in elections.
Luck plays a part. A gaffe by a politician often opens the floodgates to a
torrent of stories. The media plays its part trying to find stories that run and
run.

Campaigners, if skilful, can do their bit. At the last election, aided by some
unwise comments by frontbenchers, and then Oliver Letwin, now shadow chancellor,
going into hiding, Labour was able to run and run with the story of Tory cuts.
Stunts such as getting a Millbank member of staff to dress as Sherlock Holmes
and search for Oliver Letwin outside Tory central office reinforced the sense
that the Tories were on the back foot and Labour was having fun. The Howard
Flight saga has played a similar role already in the pre-election campaigning.

9 Don't panic

"John Prescott has just punched someone." We were all glued to the Millbank TV
screens watching replays from every angle. Derry Irvine and Charlie Falconer,
Labour's two leading lawyers, were there too. "Ooh, that's not looking good,"
Charlie would say, watching the reverse-angle shot. "Might get away with it,
from that angle," Derry would say. Whatever the legal point of view, our
political judgment was that punching random citizens, even when they disagreed
with government policy, was not on message. The following day, Blair was
preparing for a press conference in front of the world's media. We all advised
him to treat the matter with due seriousness. To our amazement, Tony laughed off
the incident with a "John will be John" response, and appeared to be getting
away with it. As we walked upstairs after the press conference, we congratulated
Tony on getting the tone spot on and getting away with it, when suddenly he
stopped in front of a TV screen, where they were showing the punch yet again.
"Oh my God," he said, "did John do that?" Gobsmacked we turned on Tony: "You
mean you haven't actually seen the TV pictures?"

10 Get out the vote

It's easy to be sanctimonious and expect everyone to turn out and vote. In 2001,
trying to get out the vote on one housing estate, I saw quite how hard it can be
in reality, with genuine confusion about where and how to vote. "I've just moved
house, do I vote here or at my last place?" "I've lost my card, can I still
vote?" "No one has told me where to vote, how do I find out?" It can't be beyond
us to find secure and easy ways for people to vote using new technology. Labour
will want good weather and a high turnout for a big majority. The Tories won't
mind if it's a low turnout because their core support is more likely to vote
than Labour's.

The Republicans and Democrats in the United States have found new ways of
getting voters to turn out on the day, with face-to-face contact in each
precinct, and figures in the community - not just political campaigners -
helping to sway undecided voters. All parties will be deploying these kind of
techniques this time around.

All elections, every one of them, come down in the end to one of two
propositions: "better the devil you know" or "time for a change". This election
will be no different.

For political operatives - the campaigners, the pollsters, the regional
organisers, the press officers, the speechwriters, the events planners, the grid
fillers, the advertisers, the volunteers, and, most of all, the candidates - a
general election is the politics' World Cup final and Olympics rolled into one;
with only one winner and one prime minister.

Inside party headquarters are the nervous and the bullish, the big-match
players, and the idealistic newcomers; the nerdy number crunchers and the frisky
advertisers. All are now a tense team, cramped together in the "war room",
sniffing and squirming at each twitch in the poll ratings, each political gaffe,
each night's focus-group findings for signs of trends, momentum, chinks in an
opponent's armour.

I will be spending this election not at political HQ, but in an inner-city
classroom. I will, like millions of others, be getting just flashes of the
campaign. But I won't be joining the cynics who say elections don't matter, or
the parties are all the same. No one should be in doubt that a Blair Britain and
a Howard Britain would be very different.

Peter Hyman was head of the Strategic Communications Unit at No 10 and is author
of 1 Out Of 10: From Downing Street Vision To Classroom Reality. He will be
writing regularly for the Guardian throughout the campaign.


LOAD-DATE: April 6, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 Guardian Newspapers Limited

                              160 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 6, 2005, Wednesday

UKIP

BYLINE: Andrew Pierce

SECTION: Features; Election 2005 4

LENGTH: 44 words


With the departure of Kilroy-Silk, the United Kingdom Independence Party is
shorn of any real box-office talent. They will wheel out Nigel Farage, their
only decent orator, to try to ensure that they do not lose their deposit in
every seat they contest.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              161 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 6, 2005, Wednesday

Flock of new parties fight for votes

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Features; Election 2005 10

LENGTH: 477 words


WHILE the main parties dream of taking power in Parliament, many others have set
their goal at winning just one seat. The Greens, Respect and scores of
independents campaign in the hope that realising that ambition is just around
the corner.

If they were to pull it off, it would mark a historic groundshift in
Westminster.

If they even come close, this election will be almost as interesting at the
fringes as at the centre.

A flock of new parties -the highest number in the Electoral Commission's history
-have registered this year, a fact seen as a by-product both of disillusion with
a third-term Labour Government and a shift from the tribal party ties of old.

Independent candidates may stand a better chance alone, without the money and
organisation of a small party.

Dr Richard Taylor, the independent who won Wyre Forest in 2001 on a Save
Kidderminster Hospital ticket, plans to run again. But like Martin Bell and
others before him, he benefited from having one of the mainstream parties
standing aside.

The difficulty for new parties is that at a general election, unlike local or
European elections, people do not tend to experiment with their vote.

Although UKIP overshadows them in terms of publicity, the Greens could do well
in the Brighton Pavilion constituency, where they topped the poll in the
European elections. Their candidate, Keith Taylor, came fourth in 2001, taking
almost 10 per cent of the vote.

Although their coffers are not bulging, they will field some 170 candidates and
have persuaded Alex Cox, the film director, to make a party political broadcast
for them.

Peter Cranie, head of the Green election campaign, said: "I think there's a
growing disillusionment, not just with Labour, but with politics in general,
since 2001. I think we can finish at least second in a number of seats."

The other big difference is the Iraq war, which has left many Labour voters in
the mood to register a protest vote, but unwilling to vote Conservative. In his
Sedgefield constituency, Tony Blair will face two anti-war independents, one the
father of a soldier killed in Iraq.

Oona King, the pro-war Labour MP, is the subject of a particularly aggressive
campaign from her former colleague, George Galloway, and his anti-war Respect
party in Bethnal Green.

Respect has selected just under 30 candidates and tends to galvanise the Muslim
vote. It is campaigning in similar seats to the British National Party, which is
expected to field around 100 candidates. Neither has much of a hope of winning a
seat in inner-city, ethnically mixed areas, but their joint presence turns up
the heat and polarises the vote. And even if alternative parties do not win,
they can stop the favourite from doing so.

As Ms King said through gritted teeth of Mr Galloway: "It's going to be a fun
election."


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              162 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 6, 2005, Wednesday

UKIP pins its hopes on Labour

BYLINE: Helen Rumbelow

SECTION: Features; Election 2005 11

LENGTH: 402 words


IT sounds bizarre but the UKIP is rooting for Labour (Helen Rumbelow writes).
The party is watching the polls anxiously hoping it will do well all the while
being coached in electoral strategy by Dick Morris, Bill Clinton's former
consultant.

Of course, this is not some kind of Damascus conversion. The simple calculation
is this: If Labour seems assured of victory, people of all political persuasions
will feel they have more freedom to back a new party.

"If Labour seems able to defeat the Conservative Party by eight points, as the
polls have shown, then the UKIP is going to do very well," says Mr Morris. "In
that situation, it's not logical to vote either Labour or Conservative, and both
kinds of supporters feel that they can indulge their consciences."

The UKIP seems, on paper, to have to have the best chance of being the first new
party past the post. It has the effective advice of Mr Morris, and a rich backer
in retired bookmaker Alan Bown, who has indicated he is willing to meet a
multimillion-pound campaign bill.

It has also the most candidates of the new parties, aiming to field one in every
constituency, and the most members, at 27,000, compared to under 7,000 who have
joined the Greens. Its increased membership also helps on the ground with funds,
canvassing, and activism, and the party has picked 12 target seats, in the
Midlands, Cornwall, and Essex, based on their showing in the European elections
last year.

If the European election results were translated into parliamentary
constituencies, the UKIP would have come first in 21 seats, but as Nigel Farage,
its most high-profile MEP said, "it is a different vote this time, no doubt
about it."

Since last June the UKIP has lost Robert Kilroy-Silk, who has set up his own
party, Veritas. The break was an electoral disadvantage for both: the UKIP lost
its only household name, but Mr Kilroy-Silk lost funds and infrastructure.

Mr Kilroy-Silk managed to triple the UKIP's vote in the East Midlands when he
won as an MEP for them last year, but now his party has had only a matter of
weeks to organise for a general election. He struggled to meet the requisite
number of candidates to qualify for a political broadcast, and has yet to find a
major backer. He will stand in Erewash, in Derbyshire, and concentrate campaign
resources on a few West Midlands seats to amplify the "Kilroy-effect".


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              163 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 6, 2005, Wednesday

But will it be one big turn-off?

BYLINE: Adam Sherwin

SECTION: Features; Election 2005 22

LENGTH: 802 words


COULD the team behind Wallace and Gromit be the secret weapon in the fierce
election battle between broadcasters? Dimbleby will challenge Dimbleby as the
networks line up their heavyweights to engage an audience which has never been
more disillusioned with politicians.

All the broadcasters are united behind Nick Pollard, the Sky News chief, in his
assessment of the 2001 campaign: "It was very fair -my God, was it comprehensive
-and it bored the viewers."

Digital innovations and a dash of entertainment will be key this time. The BBC
has asked the Oscar-winning Aardman Animations to put a novel spin on
proceedings.

Producers conducted street interviews with "disenfranchised" voters, whose
musings have been turned into Creature Comfort-style short films. They will
leaven the debate on Andrew Neil's BBC One late-night round-up.

A feverish battle for ratings is being waged among the 24-hour news channels and
"accessibility" is the buzz word. Politicians are out and ordinary folks,
plasticine or real, in.

"We can't just bore the viewers with the same 'save the pound' speech 18 days in
a row," Fran Unsworth, the BBC's head of political programmes, argues.

BBC News 24 and Sky News plan to cut away from repetitive speeches, inviting
digital viewers to "press the red button" if they wish to stay with, say. a
split-screen Michael Howard. When the politicians trade figures, pundits will
come to the fore. Nick Robinson, the ITN Political Editor and Times columnist,
was credited with pinning Tony Blair down for the first time on the question of
the Conservatives' £35 billion spending "cuts".

Ms Unsworth said: "Viewers look to the specialists to unpick these claims.
Andrew Marr is a great BBC asset but Evan Davis and Stephanie Flanders, our
economics team, will also be putting statistics to the test."

Audience research conducted by the BBC found that viewers could not define the
differences between the main parties and disliked the focus on leaders. With
politics a dirty word among younger viewers, the BBC, ITN and Sky have all made
defining the truth behind the statistics their priority.

Mr Pollard said: "What is the NHS really like? What are people's real
experiences of it? All the broadcasters will be preparing a parcel of ideas and
formats to try to make it a little bit more accessible, rather than just
reporting from Elgin High Street."

After the poor turnout in 2001, the BBC debated whether encouraging
participation should be part of its public service mission. A BBC One Test the
Nation election special was planned but executives felt it would breach
impartiality guidelines.

However "interactive" opportunities will be exploited. Viewers will be asked for
instant reactions to the latest controversies, through e-mails, text messages
and "red button" polls. All the broadcasters are determined that this will not
be remembered as the election of the stunt. Fathers 4 Justice and pro-hunt
campaigners have become skilled at hijacking the news agenda and both have
promised further action before polling day.

Ms Unsworth said: "We must not let stunts dictate the agenda. It is very easy to
make a small demonstration in a town centre look like a riot on television."

The UKIP and other fringe groups will fight for a greater share of national
coverage, urging their supporters to argue their cause on popular radio phone
ins.

Some stunts will be more than welcome. No news organisation can afford to miss
the "Sharon Storer moment" (the Birmingham housewife who confronted Tony Blair)
or a "Prescott punch". They may even attempt to engineer such confrontations.
But deprived of the presidential-style leaders' debate that they desperately
want and given the downgrading of daily press conferences, the broadcasters are
determined to prevent spin-doctors controlling the story of the day.

Global warming, Europe and housing are among issues that politicians might want
to avoid but which BBC journalists are being encouraged to throw into the
campaign.

With Alastair Campbell back on the scene, the BBC in particular is steeled for
the accusations of bias. But furious phone calls will not provoke the desired
response. The BBC has set up a central complaints procedure which promises to
analyse all complaints fully and dispassionately.

The Dimblebys and Peter Snow's swingometer will feature prominently on the big
night itself, when the race to be first (and correct) with the results will be
as fierce as ever.

Election night could be when the game begins to get interesting. Andrew Marr
warned colleagues at a BBC briefing that should Labour be re-elected, the size
of its majority and the implications for Tony Blair's longevity will be the big
story.

* Adam Sherwin is The Times Media Reporter


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              164 of 175 DOCUMENTS




                                  Guardian.com

                                 April 5, 2005

Smaller parties campaign round-up

LENGTH: 421 words



HIGHLIGHT: .Matthew Tempest looks at what the lower profile election hopefuls
are planning for the coming weeks.


Scottish National party

The SNP's leader, Alex Salmond, will launch the party's campaign tomorrow in
Dundee, accompanied by the deputy leader, Nicola Sturgeon, and some of the
party's slate of 59 candidates (after a boundary commission review, Scotland's
tally of 72 Westminster seats has been cut by 13 at this election). In a move he
may regret, Mr Salmond will later dress in period costume for a re-enactment of
the signing of the Declaration of Arbroath.

Plaid Cymru

The Welsh nationalists' reacted to the announcement of the election date with an
attack on Labour's record in Wales. Their Westminster parliamentary leader,
Elfyn Llwyd, said "the people of Wales need to ask themselves can they trust New
Labour. In their 2001 general election manifesto they promised to cut waiting
times in Wales year on year. The sad reality is that one in 10 Welsh people are
on an NHS waiting list."

UK Independence party

A manifesto launch is tentatively planned for next Wednesday, whilst the party's
election broadcast was today being filmed on College Green. A party spokesman
said: "No one can any longer say a vote for Ukip is a wasted vote. This election
has everything to play for." Around 450 Ukip candidates have so far been picked,
with a tally of 500 hoped for.

Green party

The Green party speaker, Keith Taylor said about the election announcement:
"After a four-year interim characterised by war and an increasingly
indistinguishable cross-party agenda of spin and non-stop privatisation, there
has never been a greater need - or opportunity - for a Green voice in
Westminster parliament." The party, which will launch its manifesto next
Tuesday, also dismissed the Liberal Democrats' green credentials, claiming that
Charles Kennedy's campaign plane will release "100 tonnes of CO2 into the
atmosphere".

Respect

The Respect coalition is launching its campaign in the City of London tomorrow,
close to its main target seat, Bethnal Green & Bow, where George Galloway is
challenging Labour's Oona King. Craig Murray, the former ambassador to
Uzbekistan who is standing against Jack Straw as an independent, will also
attend.

Scottish Socialist party

Although the party is doubtful of its electoral chances under first past the
post, the Scottish Socialists' national convenor, Colin Fox, called on people to
back the party to "give an impetus to those who will converge on the G8 summit
in July to protest against globalisation and in favour of fair trade,
international aid and policies that promote real justice across the globe".

LOAD-DATE: May 17, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

PUBLICATION-TYPE: Newspaper


        Copyright  2005  Guardian Unlimited.Guardian Newspapers Limited
                              All rights reserved

                              165 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 4, 2005, Monday

POLITICS: WE NEED MORE THAN ROTTERS AND SOFTIES;
 POLITICAL TV SHOWS WOULD BENEFIT FROM A MORE VARIED STYLE OF

BYLINE: ANDREW NEIL

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 10,11

LENGTH: 1330 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Talking heads: Jeremy Paxman, above, is the classic Rottweiler' interviewer in
contrast to US broadcasters Charles Gibson, left, and Jim Lehrer, below, who
tend not to argue too much with the answers that politicians give them. Channel
4 have varied the format of the political interview with presenters Piers Morgan
and Amanda Platell, bottom


Political interviewing styles in Britain have narrowed over the years to just
two discernible techniques: "The Rottweiler" (as purveyed by John Humphrys and
Jeremy Paxman) and "The Softy" (think Jeremy Vine and David Frost).

British political interviews are tougher than most in the democratic world (an
essential feature of our disputatious democracy of which we should be proud),
but we could do with a little bit more light and shade, change of pace - in a
word, more variety.

The Americans are short of Rottweilers and sometimes show their politicians too
much deference, which is strange in the land of the self-made and undeferential.
When US broadcasters interview a senator or (rarely) the President, they don't
give them nearly as hard a time as we would. Perhaps it's because they have so
much reverence for their politicians. The US President is not only the country's
top politician, he is also the head of state. There are only 100 senators in a
vast country and they are regarded as very important to the lifeblood of
American democracy.

Look at The West Wing. The NBC show holds up the American political process,
warts and all, as being the greatest democratic experiment the world has ever
known. If anybody broadcast a programme like that about British politics, we
would snigger at it. Our nearest equivalent, Yes, Minister, was much more an
accurate satire on the political process. Perhaps we're too robust and
argumentative, and the Americans too deferential. But at least the Americans
have variety.

Turn on the television in the US and you will find a greater diversity of
political programming, whether it's Jim Lehrer nightly on PBS, Diane Sawyer or
Charles Gibson on ABC News, or Jay Leno and David Letterman (yes, they do
politics, too).

In Britain we've become a bit hidebound. We don't do enough interviews where the
main intention is not to have an argument - or a clash of egos - but to glean
information for the viewer or listener, who are sometimes seen as irrelevant to
the process.

We could learn something from The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer. They don't do either
Rottweiler or Softy. He and his team simply ask questions designed to elicit
hard information. "What exactly do you mean by that?"; "Could you explain in
more detail what you are saying?"; "How do you reconcile that with that?".
Lehrer and Co don't argue much with the answers. They leave the public to decide
on their veracity. They are trying to draw out information rather than score
points or clash in debate. We could do with more of this on British television.

On my programme, BBC2's The Daily Politics, the Rottweiler is often let off the
leash. Sometimes it holds a politician to account; sometimes it generates more
heat than light. The Softy is also wheeled out for retrospective interviews with
veterans like Denis Healey or Geoffrey Howe, who come along to reminisce about
what happened "On This Day" many years ago. But mostly we try to elicit
information - and our viewers seem to like that, if the e-mails and text
messages we receive are anything to go by.

I know from my own experience that the viewer is often put off by too much
argy-bargy. On The Daily Politics we get immediate e-mails from our viewers
(something which doesn't happen with other mainstream political shows), and we
know when we've got it wrong or set the wrong tone. Sometimes, when the
Rottweiler is roaming the studio savaging whichever politician he can find, the
e-mails are pretty united. "You interrupted too much"; "You didn't give them a
chance to speak"; "We wanted to find out more rather than watching an argument".

Of course there are times when the Rottweiler is regarded as a guardian of
democracy, as when I recently interrogated the Northern Ireland Secretary, Paul
Murphy, on why Gerry Adams and Martin McGuinness were not going to be subject to
an anti-terrorist house arrest control order. The viewers loved watching him
squirm. But other times you just get it wrong.

A couple of weeks ago I interviewed the Labour MP Dr Howard Stoate about the
Mental Health Act. Around 40 people a year are killed by mental health patients
who are let out when they shouldn't be. But Dr Stoate's Commons committee had
concluded that we should pay still more attention to the civil liberties of such
patients. So I went for him. But Dr Stoate played an admirably straight and
reasonable bat, and my approach was neither illuminating nor particularly
edifying, as the viewers let me know (though I suspect the mental health lobby
was e-mailing us like fury!).

Perhaps we'd have more variety in interviewing if we had more formats for
political shows. There have been almost no new ideas in British political
programming for 20 years, until The Daily Politics, BBC1's This Week (which I
present with regular guests Diane Abbott and Michael Portillo) and Channel 4's
Morgan and Platell came along, although none is a really radical departure and
the two I do are on the periphery of the schedules.

The more established programmes - BBC TV's Breakfast with Frost; Question Time;
The Politics Show; Radio 4's Any Questions; A Week at Westminster; Sky's Sunday
With Adam Boulton - are all formats that are as old as the hills. This lack of
new ideas explains why political programmes struggle to find new audiences.

Yet it is worth the effort. We've made a real attempt to be different with This
Week, getting away from the usual party-line confrontations, and it's paid
dividends. We regularly get over 1 million viewers, an 18 per cent audience
share that is not bad for a very late-night show in the multi-channel age.

Part of the problem is that political interviewing in Britain pretends that
there are, at best, only three parties. So programmes largely missed the Green
revolution of the Eighties, the regional revolution of the Nineties and the UKIP
advances of the Noughties. In all there will be more than 290 parties contesting
the elections in a few weeks time. Admittedly, 40 per cent of these are
single-issue; but you wouldn't have a clue at this rich variety of options even
if you watched all the main channels all the time.

The Daily Politics (with its "Just a Minute" slot on 20 of the other parties in
the election) will try in a small way to address this by devoting air time to
the BNP on the right, to anti-war candidates on the left and to some of the
single-issue campaigners who are striking a chord in their communities.

It is difficult to be too radical, though, during an election campaign, when
strict broadcasting rules that were originally designed to ensure fair play
often reduce discussion to mere tribal positioning from the parties. To conform
with our obligations, producers stand with stopwatches to ensure that the same
amount of time is allocated to Labour and the Tories, with a smaller proportion
going to the Lib Dems. Broadcasters take this seriously because we know the
parties are doing the same, and are not slow to complain if they believe they
have been short-changed by even a few seconds.

This is all very fair and democratic, but it hardly makes for ground- breaking
TV. The rules say that we must represent all sides in the election when actually
we should be representing only one: the viewer. If that means exploring a
polemic or one position more thoroughly than another, so be it. If it means
upsetting the parties from time to time because we haven't included their
increasingly meaningless sound-bite in our coverage, so be it. The huge number
of TV channels now available in Britain means we should have moved beyond rules
designed in the Fifties. It is time for a change.

Andrew Neil presents of The Daily Politics', five days a week from today. It is
on BBC 2 at 12 noon every Monday, Tuesday, Thursday and Friday, and at 11am
every Wednesday. He also hosts This Week', which during the election campaign
will broadcast on BBC 1 on Mondays and Thursdays at 11.35pm

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              166 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 4, 2005, Monday

ANALYSIS: WINNERS AND LOSERS ON THE CAMPAIGN TRAIL;
 LEGENDARY ADVERTISING EXECUTIVE BARRY DELANEY CASTS HIS VOTE FOR THE

BYLINE: BARRY DELANEY

SECTION: First Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 18,19

LENGTH: 1344 words


DAISY

TV ad for Lyndon Johnson's presidential campaign

Doyle Dane Bernbach, US, 1964

In 1964, the Republican presidential candidate Barry Goldwater ventured the
opinion that a low-yield atomic explosion might be used to defoliate the forests
of Vietnam which provided shelter for the Viet Cong. The Democrats responded
with this commercial in which a young girl counts the petals on a daisy in
unison with a male voice counting down to the finale - an H-bomb exploding while
LBJ's voice tells us: "We must love each other or we must die." Goldwater's name
is never mentioned but he got wiped out in the election. The Republicans
concluded that extreme right-wingers were not the way ahead. But later they
changed their minds.

YESTERDAY'S MEN

Labour election ad/poster, 1970

The ad depicts members of the Tory front bench who had been in government just
six years before. It was to have been the first shot in a long campaign that
would run until the expected October election. But Harold Wilson took everyone
by surprise by deciding to go in May. So the ad appeared everywhere during the
campaign and was generally thought to lack the dignity that one ought to expect
from Her Majesty's government. Wilson then sprung another surprise: in defiance
of every prediction he managed to lose the election. In their bewildered search
for an explanation, many in the Labour Party, including Wilson, blamed the ad.

LABOUR ISN'T WORKING

Conservative poster, Saatchi and Saatchi, 1978

Everyone expected James Callaghan to call an election in October 1978. Then this
poster appeared and as a result (or so it is alleged) he lost his nerve. The
winter of discontent ensured a Margaret Thatcher victory. The Saatchi legend was
born. But when the Saatchi ads began to appear during the election campaign, the
Labour poll ratings began to rise. The more they advertised the better it got
for Labour. If the campaign had lasted another two weeks and the trend had
continued Labour would have won. But history and legends are written by the
victors.

LIKE YOUR MANIFESTO COMRADE

Conservative press ad, Saatchi and Saatchi, 1983

The Labour Party manifesto for the 1983 general election was famously described
by Denis Healey as the longest suicide note in history. It was also meat and
drink to the Saatchis who did most of their best advertising for the Tories in
that year. There were many moderate Labour MPs who saw ads like this and
wondered why they had turned down the chance to join the SDP in 1981. After the
inevitable defeat, however, they pulled themselves together and set off on the
road that led to New Labour. I like to think the Tory ads of 1983 helped to spur
them on their way.

LABOUR SAYS HE'S BLACK...

Conservative press ad, Saatchi and Saatchi, 1983

Another ad from 1983 and a brilliant provocation. It was aimed squarely at the
attitude to minorities that characterised too many Labour Party members and
lefties generally: self-righteous, patronising and hideously smug. On the other
hand, unless you happened to be a white Anglo-Saxon Protestant, the Tory party
was not a good place to be in 1983. And it's not that much better now.

IF YOU WANT ME OUT...

GLC press ad, BMP, 1984

By abolishing the Greater London Council Margaret Thatcher contrived to turn Ken
Livingstone from a loony left pariah into a cheeky chappy populist. This ad was
a major contributor to the transition. But it was significant too for the effect
it had on the Labour Party. Many - perhaps most - people in the Labour Party
thought of advertising as a distasteful necessity at best and a capitalist plot
at worst. This ad, more than any other, opened their eyes to the fact that their
views and ideas could be made compelling in an ad.

LABOUR'S POLICY ON ARMS

Conservative ad/poster, Saatchi and Saatchi, 1987

During the 1987 campaign, Neil Kinnock told an interviewer that he would, if
elected, be reluctant to send nuclear missiles hurtling off to Russia. Many
rational and thoughtful people throughout the country were relieved to hear it.
The Saatchis, however, saw an opportunity to encourage the perception that
Labour was somehow soft on defence. So they quickly produced this ad. It was the
"Daisy" ad in reverse. Where Goldwater had been vilified for embracing the
nuclear option Kinnock was, surprisingly you might think, taunted for showing
too little enthusiasm for armageddon. It was scurrilous and unfair. But the ad
made me smile.

KINNOCK

Labour election broadcast, Shadow Communications Agency, 1987

This broadcast was devoted to a potted biography of the party leader instead of
a presentation of party policy. No party had done such a thing before. The end
credit said "Kinnock" not "Labour". It was as if he were standing for president.
People were gobsmacked. And it was a (temporary) success. Labour's ratings in
the polls went up. The Tories convened a hasty meeting and changed their
communications strategy. But the greatest beneficiary was Kinnock himself. The
rise in his personal poll rating was three times that of the party. The only
other time in his career when he experienced such an increase in popularity was
when he punched some bloke in a Chinese restaurant.

LABOUR'S TAX BOMBSHELL

Conservative poster, Saatchi and Saatchi, 1992

Advertising doesn't have much effect in most elections. It is generally
overwhelmed by the much greater noise coming from the news media. But in a close
election even a small voice could tip the balance. The election of 1992 was
close and this poster might have done it for John Major. The additional taxes it
invoked were based on a very particular analysis of the Labour manifesto. An
enterprising Guardian journalist decided to apply the same analysis to the Tory
manifesto and found that the additional taxes it implied were even greater. But
by the time he announced his findings to the Guardian readership (who were
predominantly Labour voters anyway) it was far too late.

DEMON EYES

Conservative poster, M and C Saatchi, 1997

Contrary to popular opinion advertising can never sell a product that people
have decided they don't like. So it is difficult to imagine what kind of
advertising would have helped the Tories in 1997. When this ad appeared it
gained instant notoriety but did nothing for Tory credibility. Even Tories came
to see it for what it was: a somewhat incoherent attack on a party that wasn't
on the ballot: Old Labour. The ad was not entirely without admirers, though. The
editor of advertising trade journal Campaign caused widespread astonishment when
he declared it ad of the year.

INCOME TAX RATES WILL NOT RISE

Labour party poster, BMP, 1997

Pale pastel backgrounds and simple statements of policy were all that
characterised this campaign. No smart-arse copy lines. No barbed attacks on
opponents. Nothing, in fact, that would normally be required to qualify an ad as
memorable. But when voters are taking the momentous decision to rid themselves
of the devil they know they are positively grateful for some calm reassurance.
Nothing as plain as this had ever been risked before and it has not been tried
again since. I can't prove it, of course, but I believe this campaign may have
played a significant part in turning a certain victory into a landslide.

ARE YOU THINKING WHAT WE'RE THINKING

Conservative ad, 2005

Racists, bigots and paranoid loonies of every stripe have always preferred the
Conservatives to any other mainstream party. Their numbers are hard to quantify
but are assumed to be significant. Moderate and humane Tories may deplore their
views but they know they need their vote. The trouble is they can't, for obvious
reasons, be seen to court their vote. But now, after all these years, they seem
to have found the solution. "Are you thinking what we're thinking?" is a
brilliant nod and wink to potential UKIP and BNP voters. But if anyone says
that's what they're up to, the line has what lawyers call deniability. Eat your
heart out, Machiavelli.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              167 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 4, 2005, Monday

It will be a hard night for Blair on May 5

BYLINE: Frank Luntz

SECTION: Features; 21

LENGTH: 1175 words


In years of polling voters, I have never found the public mood in Britain so
disgruntled and disillusioned

THE DAYS of Labour's three-figure majority may be coming to an end -at least if
the voters of Milton Keynes North East are any indication.

Last week BBC Two's Newsnight brought me over from America to examine the mood
of the voters. I studied at Oxford during the 1987 election and was a political
commentator during the 1997 and 2001 elections, and never have I seen voters so
disgruntled as now. In the past, only a small segment of the population has
complained about having to choose the lesser of three evils. This time they all
seem to be, and they are not happy about it.

Newsnight gave me a camera crew and a mission: find the voters in a marginal
constituency that best represents what might happen on May 5. I chose Milton
Keynes North East because it returned a Conservative during the Thatcher years,
but embraced Tony Blair in 1997 and 2001. It is also one of the few seats where
the Liberal Democrats control the local council and can seriously contest the
constituency.

The 30 people who gathered to talk politics for three hours were undecided
voters who represented a fair cross-section of the electorate. In the 2001
election, nine had voted Labour, eight had backed the Conservatives, eight the
Liberal Democrats, and one voted for the United Kingdom Independence Party. Four
did not vote three of them said they would have voted Labour in 2001.

Although they came from diverse political backgrounds, our 30 undecideds agreed
on much more than you would expect. All the party leaders spin. All say what
they think voters want to hear. No one is addressing the issues that concern
them.

The big loser of the evening, was Mr Blair. He was called "liar", "dishonest",
"promise breaker", and "patronising" -and that was by his 2001 Labour
supporters.

The feeling of everyone was the same: incredibly high hopes when he came to
office in 1997 and shattered expectations today.

The problem for Mr Blair, and why Labour could have its majority sliced in half,
is that the more he struggles to lower public expectations, the more he sinks in
people's estimation. The swing voters overwhelmingly picked him as both the most
likely party leader to cheat at golf ("he'll do anything to win"), and also the
leader that they would most trust to watch their daughter for a weekend -"his
soft, gentle talk is patronising to us, but a nine-year-old would like it".

The more Mr Blair tells voters he is listening, the more convinced they are that
he is not. The more he claims he is not courting popularity, the more they
assume he is just spinning. Mr Blair, if you read these words...stop.

And it gets worse, much worse. Our 30 swing voters were given "people meters" -
small, handheld dials that they turned up or down to register their
second-by-second reaction to speeches, news clips or party political broadcasts.

Up is good. Down is bad.

We showed them the first few moments of the recent White House press conference
where President Bush and Mr Blair stood side-by-side and talked about "a clear
way forward" in Iraq. The dials plummeted. Never in 17 years of moderating
people-meter sessions have I seen an audience react so negatively even before
the first word had been spoken. Every dial fell.

I can see it now: Lib Dem posters plastered throughout traditional Labour
constituencies of a smiling Tony Blair looking wistfully at a smirking George W.

Bush over a simple four-word slogan: "Need we say more?" Trust me, it would
work.

The only solace Labour can take is in Mr Blair's overwhelming advantage over the
other party leaders in their relative ability to handle a terrorist attack or an
international crisis, and the confidence they have in Gordon Brown should he
ever become Prime Minister. If Labour is smart, Mr Brown will be the public face
of the campaign.

The big winners of the evening were the Liberal Democrats, no thanks to Charles
Kennedy. The most common phrase used by the swing voters to describe their
attitude to him was "don't know". Heading towards his second general election as
leader, Mr Kennedy still has not defined himself. When asked which of the three
leaders they would most want to have a pint with at the pub, more chose him than
the other two combined. They have a lot of questions. Mr Kennedy needs to be
armed with no-spin answers. A party political broadcast using an unscripted,
unedited, live Q&A is what they want to see from him.

These voters also want to hear more about the Lib Dem budget from its spokesman,
Vincent Cable, a man with no discernible charisma who nonetheless charmed the
participants. A combination of more spending where people want it and cuts in
areas where they do not, and a plainspeaking, positive approach produced a
noticeable swing away from Labour towards the Lib Dems. Their budget approach is
politically perfect. Now they have to figure out how to tell voters about it.

They also have to figure out how to explain why a vote for the Lib Dems is not
wasted. The answer: use the Lib Dems to send a message to Mr Blair. If the Lib
Dems were to formulate a strategy similar to the Conservative "lend us your
vote" in the 1999 European elections, asking voters to use the ballot box to
express their frustration with Mr Blair's handling of the NHS, immigration and
the economy, they could maximise the protest vote. A vote against Labour is as
good as a vote for the Lib Dems -and it is better than staying home.

The Conservatives also scored points, but again not because of their leader.

Michael Howard did not elicit the positive personal evaluations one would expect
from a potential Prime Minister, even from those who voted Tory in 2001. He did,
however, obtain the most favourable dial score of the evening when addressing
the topic of travellers which, according to swing voters, is an important aspect
of the immigration crisis.

Nothing riles the undecideds of Milton Keynes North East more than immigration.

They are waiting, wanting, hoping that some leader somewhere will stand up and
say "enough is enough". Mr Howard came closest, and when he said: "It's about
standing up for the right values...it's about making sure people abide by the
law," the dials went through the roof. If the Conservatives have the courage to
tackle the immigration issue head-on, and the skill to avoid crossing the fine
line into race-baiting, they can recapture many working-class Labour seats.

What no one raised in the three-hour discussion was the sacking of Howard
Flight.

Judging by these 30 swing voters, if the Conservatives address immigration and
stop damaging themselves with silly internal squabbles that voters do not care
about, and if the Liberal Democrats focus on the budget and keep their message
simple, Labour will have a very tough night on May 5.

*The author is founder of the Luntz Research Companies. He has advised
politicians on both sides of the Atlantic


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              168 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                             Sunday Times (London)

                             April 3, 2005, Sunday

87 to 96

BYLINE: Compiled Philip Beresford with Stephen Boyd

SECTION: Features; The Rich List 2005 22

LENGTH: 1264 words


The magic of Harry Potter by J K Rowling

87=

£550m

Charles Dunstone

Mobile phones

Dunstone, 40, co-founded Carphone Warehouse in 1989 with David Ross (qv), using
£6,000 of his savings, and built it into Europe's largest mobile phone retailer.
He has now moved into new areas such as the TalkTalk landline phone service,
created to undercut BT. Profits rose 38% to more than £28m in the first half of
2004-05. Dunstone's stake is worth £509m and he has other wealth. 2004: £427m,
92 87=

£550m

David Murray

Property and football

The metals-to-property group Murray International should show a big jump in
profits in 2004-05 to well past the £20m mark on £370m sales. Murray, 53, son of
an Ayrshire coalminer, is also expanding his Premier Property Group.

Murray International owns Rangers football club, of which he is chairman, and is
easily worth £250m. We value his property portfolio at £300m. 2004: £450m, 85=

89

£546m

Jorgen Philip Sorensen

Security services

Sorensen, 66, chairs Ecover, the environment-friendly detergent maker, but his
wealth comes from the Midlands-based Group 4 Securicor, a world leader in
security services. His stake in Group 4 Falck just before its 2000 merger with
Securicor was worth £313m - and is now at £236m after a difficult 2004. He has
sold shares worth £260m, and other interests add £50m. 2004: £603m, 61

90

£540m

Tony Wilkinson and family

Discount stores

Wilkinson, 67, runs Nottinghamshire- based Wilkinson Hardware Stores, a chain of
222 discount shops. Profits rose to a record £56.4m in 2003-04 on sales of £1.04
billion. The £500m business paid a £37m dividend in 2003-04 to add to the
family's £62m gain from 1997 and 2004. Our valuation allows for tax. 2004:
£425m, 93=

91

£520m

Paul Sykes

Property

A Barnsley miner's son, Sykes, 61, made money in his early twenties by breaking
up old buses and selling the parts to the Far East. He moved into property
development, teaming up with Eddie Healey (qv) to build the Meadowhall shopping
centre near Sheffield. Sykes collected £280m for his stake when it was sold in
1999. His Highstone Group made £8.3m profit and had £137m net assets in 2003-04.
Salaries, dividends and past investments add to his wealth. He made £85m from
the sale of Planet Online, an internet venture, in 1998.

A vociferous Eurosceptic, he has given £5m to the UK Independence party and
other anti-euro causes. 2004: £500m, 73=

92

£515m

David Gold and family

Media, aviation and lingerie

Birmingham City FC chairman Gold, 68, was set to join West Ham as a youth player
but his father refused to sign the forms. Instead Gold began selling and later
publishing adult magazines. His £250m Gold Group International has interests
ranging from an air charter firm to Ann Summers lingerie shops. Gold and his
family also own half of the £200m Sport Newspapers, with the rest held by David
Sullivan (qv). Other assets include a Surrey estate. 2004: Pounds 495m, 79

93=

£510m

Sir Peter Rigby

Computers

Rigby, 61, sank £2,000 savings into setting up Specialist Computer Holdings in
1975 and has built the Birmingham company into Europe's largest privately owned
technology group. The IT services specialist made £24.6m profit on £1.8 billion
sales in 2003-04. It is most active in Europe but last year won a £500m contract
with the American IT giant, Computer Services Corporation.

Rigby's 95% stake in the business is worth £480m. Past dividends and salaries
add £30m. 2004: £500m, 73=

93=

£510m

Phillip Sheppard and family

Scrap metal

Sheppard, 58, and his family own European Metal Recycling, the Liverpool- based
scrap metal company. Each year it handles more than half of the 2m cars scrapped
in Britain and disposes of 600,000 fridges. We value the firm at £500m and add
£10m for other assets. 2004: £200m, 206=

95

£503m

Jacques Gaston Murray

Industry and property

Murray, 85, runs and largely owns Andrews Sykes, a Wolverhampton air
conditioning equipment-hire company, and the Leeds-based London Securities fire
protection business. Profits were down slightly at London Securities in 2003 so
we reduce our valuation of Murray's combined stake to £263m. He has a £185m
property portfolio and we add £55m for other interests. 2004: £505m, 72

96=

£500m

Mike Ashley

Sports goods

Ashley, 40, is Britain's leading retailer of sportswear. He owns Dunstable-
based Sports World International, the £450m parent company of the Sports Soccer
chain of 120 shops and Lillywhites, the London sports store, as well as the
Dunlop Slazenger, Donnay and Karrimor companies. Profits fell from Pounds 49.3m
to £45.1m in 2002-03 as Ashley's salary rose from £200,000 to £11m. We add £35m
for other businesses and £15m for personal assets. 2004: £400m, 101=

96=

£500m

Jane Clarke and family

Property

The Clarkes are Jersey's largest private landowners, with tracts of St Helier
and numerous retail outlets and pubs. The empire was built by Fred Clarke, who
died in 2001. His daughter Jane is leading a reorganisation of assets, disposing
of some.

Cautiously we value the proceeds and the remaining assets at £500m. 2004: £400m,
101= 96=

£500m

Harry Dobson

Mining, football and finance

Scotsman Dobson, 57, and a partner bought a Canadian gold mine in 1986 for £9m
and sold it three years later for £77m. He has repeated the feat several times
and is now involved in a diamond venture that may yield stones worth £3.6
billion. Dobson has 17m shares in Manchester United worth £50m, 40 horses in
training in Ireland, 187 acres in Dublin and other property that add £30m. 2004:
£470m, 81=

96=

£500m

Tim Landon

Oil

Landon, 62, has 50,000 acres of grouse moor in the north to indulge his passion
for shooting. At Sandhurst he met Qaboos, the present Sultan of Oman, and
assisted in the 1970 coup that brought him to power. Landon was well rewarded
and is worth £500m on the back of rising oil prices. 2004: £400m, 101=

96=

£500m

Joanne Rowling

Novels and films

When it comes to writing bestsellers Rowling has the Midas touch, with 270m
books sold in 62 languages to date; this summer's Harry Potter and the
Half-Blood Prince - the sixth book in a seven-part series - already has its
place assured at the top of the bestseller lists around the world. Rowling's
life on a Perthshire estate, with further homes in Edinburgh and London, is a
far cry from the days she spent in an Edinburgh cafe writing the first Harry
Potter novel - and keeping warm - in the company of her daughter Jessica, now
11. She has two further children to entertain: a son, David, born in 2003 and
second daughter Mackenzie, who arrived this January. Rowling, 39, has not taken
the tax avoidance measures of many of the super-rich, so this year's bonanza
will be good news for the Inland Revenue. We put her earnings from her books
alone at £300m. Merchandising, endorsements and the three Potter films add
another £70m, but after her tax bill Rowling is left with perhaps £300m of
current wealth. Yet she is especially fortunate as an author in that the next
two books and the four films give her almost guaranteed future earnings. Thus we
ascribe a further £200m to her asset wealth. She puts something back as well:
there has been talk of a Harry Potter encyclopaedia using material cut from the
series, the proceeds of which would go to charity. 2004: £435m, 91


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

GRAPHIC: The top 100; The Rich List 2005

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              169 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            SUNDAY SUTELEAPH(LONDON)

                             April 03, 2005, Sunday

Flight flown

SECTION: Features; Letter to the Editor; Pg. 024

LENGTH: 55 words

I have had to amend all my speeches and articles from the original that said
"None of the three main parties have anyone with serious business experience
except Howard Flight on the Conservative shadow front bench" (Focus & Comment,
March 27). Oh dear. Now there is no one.

Godfrey Bloom MEP (UKIP, Yorks & North Lincs)

York

LOAD-DATE: April 3, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                   Copyright 2005 The Telegraph Group Limited

                              170 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                              DAILY MAIL (London)

                                 April 2, 2005

Sleeping with the enemy

BYLINE: REBECCA HARDY

SECTION: WEEKEND; Pg. 22

LENGTH: 1043 words


Some call him a racist, others dismiss him as an egotist. In his own view,
though, Robert Kilroy-Silk is the saviour of Britain.

Thus it was an ignominious fall from perma-tanned glory when he was sacked from
his daytime TV show by the BBC after his controversial attack on Arabs in his
now defunct newspaper column.

Today, Kilroy-Silk sees himself as a crusaderfor truth. Following his failed
attempt to seize control of the anti-Europe UKIP, he set up his own party,
Veritas. 'It stands for truth,' he states rather obviously. 'I left UKIP because
they weren't getting anywhere. They had no policies.'

So, it wasn't anything to do with the fact that they didn't want you as leader,
Robert?

He threw a hissy fit and walked out of UKIP, which is something Kilroy-Silk is
prone to do when things don't quite go his way, as I later discover. But
Kilroy-Silk has strong views about everything, and not least of these is one of
the most contentious social issues in the UK today - Gypsies. He has declared
that 'what Gypsies are getting away with is totally wrong and must be stopped
immediately'.

Which is why Channel 4 asked him to make a programme on a Gypsy caravan site,
living for five days with the very people he lambasted.

The idea was to see if, with a fresh insight, he might change his mind - or
validate his worst expectations. 'I was happy to see how they lived, to hear
their views and to tell them mine,' he says. 'I envisaged sitting with them
around the campfire at night, violins playing in the background while we told
stories and sang songs. But it turned out that they don't live like that at
all.'

The Gypsies he visited were facing eviction from their site, but they were
polite and respectful - up to a point. 'All politicians are scum,' they told
him. His hopes of living the Gypsy life with them were soon shattered. As a
non-Gypsy he was not allowed to share their bathroom: 'It's against our pure
Romany tradition,' they told him. Instead, he was allocated a dilapidated toilet
30 yards across a muddy field.

Nor was he allowed the relative comfort of a Gypsy caravan as his sleeping
quarters. Instead, he was given a disused trailer with holes in the wall and no
running water. His total living space measured 13ft x 7ft - about the size of a
cupboard in his Buckinghamshire mansion.

The fastidious Kilroy-Silk shudders in distaste. 'Not like the romantic vision I
had at all.' he says. 'It was a disappointment that it was not more well,
homely.'

However, rather than grin and bear it, on the programme Kilroy-Silk throws a
hissy fit and demands to be taken to a hotel.

The Gypsies are amused. 'If he can't hack it, how does he expect us to?'

they ask. And when he does later condescend to spend the night with them, he
can't find the foldaway bed, and then complains that the wind is rocking the
caravan.

His verdict at the end? 'I have said that they should integrate into the
community, and I still believe that. They're very nice - well, some of them
were. They were hospitable and personable, but I didn't change my views.

'I think they want what everyone else wants: to be left alone and have access to
important things like education. But they must live within the law.

And they make a mess and don't understand how it affects people around them.'

Kilroy-Silk doesn't like mess. 'We're talking about litter. We're talking about
burnt-out cars.

We're talking about rusty machinery,' he says.

His distaste for the 'mess' shows in his face.

He likes things to go his way, but the programme, it emerges, didn't turn out
quite as Kilroy-Silk had hoped. His cold blue eyes, set in the midst of his
fading looks, become rather scary at this point.

Since recording Kilroy And The Gypsies, the subject has become a political hot
potato - even more so than when Kilroy-Silk first began stirring things up.
Conservative leader Michael Howard has put the issue at the top of his party's
agenda as an increasing number of lawabiding people's homes are blighted by
illegal camps, with the Government doing little or nothing to prevent it. This
was a chance for Kilroy-Silk to show himself to be the sort of hard-hitting
presenter he'd like to be.

Instead, by the end of the documentary, he is presented, God forbid, as
something of a Gypsy sympathiser, placing a compassionate hand on the shoulder
of a weeping traveller on the day of eviction and even helping to clear up their
mess.

He was not entirely happy to be seen putting an elegant shoe in the pro-Gypsy
lobby. 'There were lots of things that didn't come across in the film,' he says.
'For example, I asked where the Gypsies get their money from, why they don't pay
tax. Perhaps Channel 4 has its own agenda in not giving the full story.

'I don't know if they mentioned that the people who were being evicted were
offered three cottages together. I don't know what the accommodation was like,
but if it had been you or I, no matter how dire it might have been, we'd have
gone in and sorted out the mess.'

Kilroy-Silk is in his stride now. He has no daytime television show, no column,
no credible political party, but he has his soapbox and there's no stopping him.
'Gypsies shouldn't be able to flout planning and criminal laws, citing their
human rights as a defence,' he says. 'If they've got human rights, so has the
settled community. I'm a supporter of equal rights for everybody - men, women,
people from ethnic communities.'

Oh? So what about the reports that he abused his position as king of daytime TV
by propositioning female guests? Surely, if you're a TV personality taking the
moral high ground with Gypsies over their behaviour towards others, your own
track record is relevant? It's these double standards that help make him
obnoxious in the eyes of many.

'I'm only talking about the Gypsies,' he says.

'I'm not a television personality. I'm talking about equal rights. I was there
because I had certain views about certain communities.'

True, but surely some could accuse him of also treating women unfairly, I
suggest. 'I'm sorry,' says Kilroy-Silk. 'I have to go.'

Oops, too much mess. Hissy fit time. Again.

Kilroy And The Gypsies, Channel 4, Monday, 8pm.

LOAD-DATE: April 4, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

GRAPHIC: ROBERT KILROY-SILK, LEFT, AND BELOW WITH CLIFF CORDONA AND OTHER
GYPSIES HE STAYED WITH

PUB-TYPE: Paper

                   Copyright 2005 Associated Newspapers Ltd.

                              171 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                            April 2, 2005, Saturday

STAYING IN: CAMPING WITH THE ENEMY;
 CHANNEL FOUR INVITE ROBERT KILROY-SILK TO SPEND FIVE DAYS ON A

BYLINE: JAMES RAMPTON

SECTION: Final Edition; FEATURES; Pg. 47

LENGTH: 520 words


In the past few weeks, the Conservative leader Michael Howard has been
attempting to woo the electorate with a succession of so-called "dog- whistle"
issues, subjects guaranteed to make the public sit up and listen. The shrillest
of all has been his discussion of travellers and gypsies. A couple of weeks ago,
he took out a newspaper advert proposing to get tough on illegal traveller
sites. The Tory leader has clearly struck a raw nerve here - the red tops have
been weighing in with some pretty incendiary headlines. In response, his
opponents have accused Howard of bigotry and prejudice. So Channel Four could
not have chosen a hotter topic for its documentary this Monday.

The columnist Robert Kilroy-Silk (right, near left) is a man for whom the term
"plain-speaking" could have been invented. The MEP, who recently left the UK
Independence Party and set up his own political party Veritas, lost his job as
the presenter of a BBC1 daytime talk show over anti-Arab remarks in the Sunday
Express, and he has been equally outspoken in his condemnation of the travelling
community.

He has written that "what gypsies are getting away with in certain parts of the
country is totally wrong and must be stopped immediately". As a result of these
provocative views, Channel Four invited Kilroy to spend five days last November
living on a travellers' site. He agreed to pass the last week with Romany
gypsies Cliff and Janie Codona, before they were evicted from the Woodside camp
in Bedfordshire.

Channel Four, the home of Wife Swap, may have been hoping to light the blue
touch-paper, retire and watch the sparks fly. However, Kilroy's Week with the
Gypsies is, in fact, a rather thought-provoking and surprisingly open-minded
exploration of one of the most inflammatory subjects of the day.

When he rolled up in his swanky car at the Codonas' trailer, Kilroy did not
immediately endear himself to his hosts. He joked that their tiny fridge did not
contain any champagne and on the first evening decamps to a hotel, after
refusing to spend the night in the caravan they have prepared for him. Cliff
growled that Kilroy is "a very arrogant man. He thinks he knows the answer about
everything."

But just by spending time with the family and seeing that they are people rather
than the monsters often depicted in the popular press, Kilroy slowly began to
warm to the Codonas. At one point, he convened a meeting between the travellers
and representatives of the local, settled community in an attempt to get them to
understand each other's point of view. In an eye-opening speech, a local
resident speaks up for the family facing eviction: "Where is the humanity?"

Kilroy's Week with the Gypsies succeeded in giving a human face to a community
that is so often demonised in the media. I won't give away Kilroy's conclusions,
but the film certainly ends on a note which took this viewer by surprise. When
he hugs the tearful Janie as she is being evicted, another headline coalesces in
my mind: "Kilroy in Sympathetic Shock Horror."

Kilroy's Week with the Gypsies' is at 8pm on C4 on Mon

LOAD-DATE: April 2, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              172 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                            April 2, 2005, Saturday

The show goes on

BYLINE: Robert Crampton

SECTION: Features; Times Magazine 34

LENGTH: 2143 words


Robert Kilroy-Silk traded political slog for TV glory, until he was very
publicly sacked last year. Now, back on the stump with his own party, he tells
Robert Crampton why he's the voice of the people

First of all, I think it's important that we clear up this business about the
orange face. The truth is that Robert Kilroy-Silk's face isn't particularly
orange. In fact, Kilroy's complexion is quite pale compared to fellow
perma-tanners David Dickinson and Peter Hain, while I'm not sure about Big Ron
Atkinson, because he hasn't been on the telly much recently.

Having said that, it was mid-March when I saw Kilroy at his place in
Buckinghamshire, so no one was at their best, pigmentation-wise. He said the
last time he'd been for a long weekend to his holiday home in Andalucia, it had
rained. Has he not got a sunbed, then? "No," he says, taking the question
seriously, "I've never answered this before, but I've never been on a sunbed and
I have never used fake tan." Encouraged by this scoop, I press on: does he
sunbathe a lot in Spain? "No, no, no," he says.

"From May onwards we'll be sitting in the shade, it's too hot."

Kilroy and Jan, his wife, get down to Spain every third weekend. Their place is
in the mountains, between Marbella and Gibraltar. "We're there because of the
climate," he says. "We would have gone to Italy or France by preference." Is it
true he's got 100 acres in Spain? "It's over 100," he replies. Earlier, I had
asked him if it were true he had been earning £600,000 a year presenting K!LROY
before the BBC sacked him last January. "No, more than that," he had said, and
then, when I didn't ask him how much, he smiled and added anyway: "I got over a
million a year." In Spain, he says, he and Jan "mix with the polo set in
Sotogrande and we never have problems".

Some people would say this candour was commendable, especially for a politician
whose pitch rests on his being seen as the voice of the unheard Joe and Jane
Average. ("I get tired and depressed, but I go out there and people say, 'We
haven't got a voice! You are our voice! Don't stop, keep going', and I say 'But
it's tough', and they say, 'We know it's tough, but we've only got you!'") When
I asked if he was putting any of his own money into his new party, Veritas,
Kilroy said no. "We've been let down very badly," he says. "Several promises
haven't materialised." It struck me that the biggest potential backer for
Veritas is surely its founder and leader, multimillionaire Robert Kilroy-Silk,
but no, the 80-120 candidates he hopes to run in the election will fund
themselves. "We can't hit the big time in terms of a staff and billboards and
that kind of thing."

These days, he lives off his salary as an MEP, having been elected last June on
the UKIP ticket before falling out with them last autumn, partly because they
wouldn't let him be leader, partly because they had "no policies and no
initiative". He still has his Sunday Express column, too, the one the BBC took
such exception to, the one in which he called Arabs (as opposed to Muslim
fundamentalists) "suicide bombers, limb amputators and women repressors". And he
lives also, by implication, off investment income. He presented K!LROY for 17
years, and, "We spent very little, frankly."

Kilroy's home is in Little Chalfont, Buckinghamshire. You go through a pair of
electronic gates and up a tree-lined drive to a mansion set in 16 acres.

Kilroy meets us with his black labradors, Sidney and Stanley. He's wearing a
cashmere polo-neck tucked into dark-grey slacks, and his shoes, the
photographer's French female assistant assures me, are very stylish.

There's no getting round it, Kilroy is a preternaturally handsome man.

Movie-star handsome. Six feet and a bit, great cheekbones, glittery eyes, silver
hair, the whole ensemble groomed and shined to a sparkle. Bit of a tum, but fair
play, he's coming up 63. He won't discuss his looks: "I've learnt that whatever
I say you can't have a reasonable academic discussion which could actually be
quite interesting. That's the problem with our media."

The house is Georgian for the most part, "Jacobean at the back", Kilrovian
insofar as Jan has had a pool built for his early evening swim and he has
knocked up several cages to accommodate his oriental pheasants, a hobby brutally
truncated one night by a rampaging local vixen. "We had 40 of them, Jan
discovered all their heads and everything," he says in his mournful Brummie
accent as we stroll in the dank late-winter air. (Despite that shock, Jan is
opposed to hunting with hounds. He, however, is, "Live and let live, so I
wouldn't have voted for the ban.") He talks about beehives and raspberries,
sparrowhawks and owls, and bemoans the lack of time he has for the garden. "We
don't have to do this, and lots of times we think, 'Why are we doing this? Let's
just pack it in.' But I'm really angry over Europe, the way people have been
lied to and patronised and talked down to." Withdrawal from the European Union
is his number-one policy.

I am shown into a formal living room (beige carpet, mushroom walls,
chaise-longue). We settle down and talk for an hour or so. Or rather, Kilroy
talks. Some politicians welcome a dialogue, most will at least pretend they do.
Not Kilroy-Silk. He speaks quickly and didactically, impatient of any
interruption. "Forgive me," he says at one point, "but think about what you've
just said and you won't do it again." Before he was elected as Labour MP for
Ormskirk in 1974, he was a lecturer in political theory at Liverpool University,
and he likes to remind you of it. "I'm still an academic at heart," he says,
and, "Don't forget, I was an academic political theorist, a scientist." His main
critique of UKIP is that they were politically unsophisticated. I think it
matters to him terribly that he be seen as an intellectual, a legacy perhaps of
his impoverished childhood and grammar-school education. You can see this desire
for legitimacy in his very unpopulist choice of name for his party.

He says how much he loved being in Parliament. "I made lots of laws," he says,
citing his many contributions to penal reform. He says he is still friends with
Jack Straw, Robin Cook, John Reid, fellow members of the Kinnockite left. If
he'd stayed in Parliament, I say, he'd be in the Cabinet now, presumably?
"That's what people would say, yeah." Instead, under deselection pressure from
Militant and with a lucrative offer from the BBC on the table, he decided to
quit Westminster. Neil Kinnock, for one, has never forgiven him, while a
spokesman for the Health Secretary told me, "Dr Reid's views on people who have
betrayed the Labour Party are well known."

What has taken him from the left of the Labour Party, his liberalism on prisons
denounced by Alan Clark, no less, to competing in a crowded field for votes on
the far Right? His answer is he hasn't changed, and anyway the labels left and
right "have no resonance on the streets of Derby or Nottingham". He may have a
point there. His rhetoric mixes resurgent English nationalism with Old Labour
big-state socialism. (He proposes, for instance, the "dismantling of the whole
system of asylum" and using the money saved to help "genuine refugees in the
rest of the world" and the "two million pensioners and 3.6 million kids in
poverty in this country".) He believes he has a hotline to middle England. He
attributes this to presenting K!LROY for all those years, an activity he thinks
of as a continuation of politics by other means. He had more power and influence
on the TV, he says, than as a backbench MP. "I used to see everything on my
show, it was a wonderful microcosm, you got a real feel for what's going on."
He's a funny mixture. He wants to be the fearless maverick, the outsider who
says he didn't fill in his census form because there was no box to tick to say
you were English (he then admits that Jan completed the form instead, as she
handles all their admin), yet he also stresses he can hack it with the
"metropolitan liberal elite" he so despises. "I used to be part of it," he says,
"perhaps I still am to a certain extent."

He says he is still culturally, if not economically, working class, "silly
things like spoiling the kids" and "being protective of waitresses because Jan's
mum was a waitress", yet occasionally he'll become confused, as when I ask him
if he watches much television. "No," he says, then checks himself. "Then we
sound like them, don't we? I watch football. I'm a fanatical Liverpool fan."
What do you mean, you sound like 'them'? The metropolitan elite? "Yeah, because
they don't watch television. The people who make television don't watch it. It's
outrageous!" Did you watch more when you were on it? "No, I've never watched
television." Rather, the Kilroy-Silks enjoy going to the National Theatre and
Shakespeare at Stratford.

What else does he say? Well, he accuses Michael Howard of stealing his policy of
an Australian-style points system for immigration. (The reality is that this
idea had been kicking around any number of thinktanks for years.) He also says
that "William Hague offered me a vice-presidency (I assume he means
vice-chairmanship) and a peerage" if he joined the Tory party. "Well," he
admits, "the peerage was dangled." (Hague confirms the approach, but adds, "I
can't recall anything about a peerage.") Kilroy-Silk denies that he is incapable
of staying in an organisation unless he is in charge. "No, no, no," he says,
gesturing towards the door through which Jan has recently disappeared, "if I've
got somebody who I can delegate to and who I trust I don't have to be in
charge." He admits, however, to being a "bit of a control freak" and having a
"short fuse". He says he has "never been drunk and neither has Jan". And he says
he thinks about his father, torpedoed and drowned in the Channel in 1943, when
Robert was just 18 months old, "every day".

We take a break to do some photographs. Jan comes into the room, and the advent
of an audience seems to sharpen Kilroy's competitive edge. This is a man, I
think, who absolutely has to be in charge, has to be the centre of attention,
has to see off any potential challenge to his authority. We chat about the
house. The Kilroy-Silks bought it six years ago from Matthew Aitken, as in
Stock, Aitken, Waterman. Previous owners include Ozzy Osbourne, Dirk Bogarde and
William Penn. "Do you know who William Penn is?"

Kilroy asks me, a shade aggressively. Indeed I do, I say, and I detect it is not
the answer he wants to hear. (I suppose he may be excused a fondness for besting
members of the press. We haven't been that nice about him down the years. The
News of the World called him a "penny-pinching tightwad" over his maintenance
payments to Danny, the son he had as a result of an affair. Nor were we
especially forgiving when Dominic, his son by Jan, went to prison for mortgage
fraud.) I then ask a routine question about whether he watched the recent
documentary Kilroy: Behind the Tan. He pretends that he didn't and then, once I
am suitably confused, he shouts, to much laughter from Jan, "You wanker! Of
course we saw the bloody documentary!" As did I, and when he joked on camera
about how he'd "let Jan marry me" (in 1963, they'd been childhood sweethearts at
the same school) after he'd finished with "all the really beautiful girls", I
caught a whiff of something close to cruelty in his banter.

Nearly done, we go outside for a stroll, man-to-man. I ask him about Danny.

He says: "I'm not talking about that. There might be a time, but it isn't now.
I've got a lot to say at some stage, as has Jan." He's been offered deals for
his memoirs, he says, but has always refused. Until now: he's going to start
work on them this summer. "It just feels right now. I feel as if it's almost
worth one volume just on my childhood." I say he has a reputation as a
womaniser. "Um," he says, non-commitally. Any substance to that? "I don't talk
about my private life at all." Soon afterwards, the big gates at the end of his
drive swing open, and we leave.

It is no accident that Robert Kilroy-Silk has chosen to stand in a Labour-held
seat, Erewash in Derbyshire, a seat in which he won more than 30 per cent of the
vote for UKIP last June. "They (commentators) say I'm on the right and I go away
chuckling, (thinking), 'You're stupid, you're so badly wrong.' I'm after the
Labour vote, the Labour vote." He says he talks to ex-miners, ex-steelworkers,
and, "The Labour vote has gone. It's gone."

How telling that Kilroy never misses the RSC doing Coriolanus. What's that
quote? "Long as my exile, sweet as my revenge." We shall see what retribution he
can exact at the impending election, or whether those "lovely decent people" he
claims to speak for impale him for good.


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited

                              173 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                                  The Express

                                 April 1, 2005

MAKE CANDIDATES DECLARE WHETHER THEY PUT THEIR LOYALTY TO BRITAIN OR BRUSSELS

BYLINE: Frederick Forsyth

SECTION: U.K. 1st Edition; COLUMNS; Pg. 13

LENGTH: 253 words


I DO not often try internet surfing - too much rubbish on it - but I spotted
something the other day that intrigued me.

Can anyone recall the South Molton Declaration? South Molton is a village in
Devon and in 1997 a Lib Dem candidate down there swore to his highly
Euro-sceptic farmer audience that he, too, would oppose any more takeover moves
from Brussels.

Back in London, of course, he reverted to what he had been - a Euro fanatic.

The declaration was composed for future candidates to sign, or explain why not.
It pledges the signatory to abide by his election pledges or resign.

Now it has been updated and rewritten into the British Declaration of
Independence, viewable on www. bdicampaign. org. It is in no way anti-European
and does not even mention the EU. It just commits the signatory to pledge
himself/herself to binding loyalty to the UK and to oppose any dilution of the
right of the British to govern the British. On pain of resignation and
by-election.

Supporting a yes vote in the Euro constitution referendum, Lib Dems and Labour
reps dare not sign it and have been forbidden to.

Tory HQ will not endorse it but decline to deselect or penalise those who do so,
as a matter of personal conscience, because the party already opposes the huge
further transfers of sovereignty in the constitution.

My point is: Ukip and Veritas should absolutely withdraw their people from
standing against a Conservative candidate who signs. Or prove themselves to be
complete frauds.

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: English

PUB-TYPE: Newspaper

                       Copyright 2005 EXPRESS NEWSPAPERS

                              174 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                            The Independent (London)

                             April 1, 2005, Friday

KITCHEN CABINET: TORY BOOST AS JAMIE OLIVER DECLARES FOR ARUNDEL

BYLINE: GUY ADAMS

SECTION: First Edition; NEWS; Pg. 3

LENGTH: 615 words

HIGHLIGHT:
Jamie Oliver's defection is the latest headline-grabbing stunt cooked up by the
Tories


WHEN A campaign by Jamie Oliver shamed the Government into spending an extra
£280m on school dinners, the television chef was invited to Downing Street for a
cup of tea and a photo opportunity with the Prime Minister.

Last night, the Naked Chef was poised to perform a stunning about turn. In a
move that Michael Howard hopes will get his stalling election campaign off the
ground, Oliver is to be unveiled later today as the Conservative Party's new
approved candidate for Arundel and the South Downs.

The Sussex seat was occupied until this weekend by Howard Flight, the
Conservative deputy chairman sacked by Mr Howard for making remarks about the
party's spending plans. The Tory leader hopes Oliver's appointment will bring an
end to the controversy that has surrounded the affair.

His progress towards election in the Tory heartland, which boasts a 14,000
majority, will be made into a documentary for Channel Four, who are thought to
have filmed a meeting with Mr Howard at Conservative Campaign Headquarters in
Westminster yesterday.

The two are said to have held "wide-ranging" discussions that touched on
Oliver's political background and values, as well as his recent television
series, which was strongly critical of the policies of successive governments.
According to friends, Oliver has been courted by the Tories for some time, but
was finally convinced to stand for election on Wednesday. He is said to have
been upset by attempts by Ruth Kelly, the Secretary of State for Education, to
play down his role in securing the pounds 280m package of improvements for
school dinners.

Announcing the move, Ms Kelly denied having been "bounced" into a policy change.
"The very first day I took office in December I said to people I wanted to see
an improvement in the school meals service, and I didn't even know Jamie Oliver
was making a programme about it," she said.

In marked contrast to the Labour Party, the Tories refused to comment on their
meeting with Oliver yesterday, or to allow photographers into the meeting. But
high-ranking sources claimed that Mr Howard was "surprised and delighted" to
discover the depth Oliver's Tory credentials.

Although the chef's restaurant project for disadvantaged youngsters, Fifteen,
was praised by New Labour as a flagship inner city project, he actually spent
his childhood in a staunchly Conservative family.

His parents, Trevor and Sally, run the Cricketer's, a village pub in the
Havering, Essex. They have led the campaign against the expansion of the nearby
Stansted Airport, a project that was recently given the green light by the
Government.

In an interview with The Independent on Sunday, Trevor Oliver once remarked: "I
wish he was doing all this stuff for himself and not for charity. You see, I'm a
Thatcherite."

The news was greeted with dismay in Labour circles but with derision by Liberal
Democrats. Lembit Opik, the MP for Montgomeryshire, said: "There's no doubt
after his meeting this week with Mr Oliver that Tony Blair will find this news
very hard to swallow."

OTHER CELEBRITY POLITICIANS

Sebastian Coe

Olympic athlete who served as Tory MP for Falmouth and Cambourne

Glenda Jackson

Oscar-winning actress, elected Labour MP for Hampstead in 1992

Martin Bell

War correspondent, became an independent MP in 1997

Giles Brandreth

Television personality, became a Tory MP in 1990 and stood down in 1997

Pete Wishart

Rock musician, now Scottish Nationalist MP

Michael Cashman

Actor who played first gay character in EastEnders. Now an MEP

Robert Kilroy-Silk

Stood down as Labour MP in 1974 to work in television. Now a UKIP MEP

LOAD-DATE: April 1, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                      Copyright 2005 Independent Print Ltd

                              175 of 175 DOCUMENTS

                               The Times (London)

                             April 1, 2005, Friday

Rebel pensioner sticks to her guns

SECTION: Home news; 25

LENGTH: 257 words


A WOMAN of 84 was back in court yesterday for not paying all of her council tax
bill for a second year.

Elizabeth Winkfield, from Westward Ho!, North Devon, had received a bill for
£793 from Torridge District Council for her Band-C bungalow, a 6 per cent
increase on the previous year. She objected to the rise and paid an increase of
2.5 per cent instead, to reflect inflation.

Magistrates in Barnstaple yesterday made a liability order against Miss
Winkfield for the amount she owes, but they did not order her to pay the Pounds
15 costs they imposed on the other 114 people against whom liability orders were
made.

When the clerk of the court asked whether she had a defence, Miss Winkfield
replied: "Not really." She then spoke of the waste of council tax revenues on
the regional assembly. She said she objected to paying some, not all, of her
council tax. Supporting Miss Winkfield in court were members of the UK
Independence Party and the Devon Pensioners Action Forum.

Outside, Miss Winkfield said she was amazed that costs were not awarded against
her. Miss Winkfield said she could afford to pay the council tax in full -she
still owes some for the previous year -but would not do so. Asked what would
happen when the 2005-06 bill arrived she said: "I don't know."

Karen Chapman, the council's revenue and benefits manager, said: "The council,
naturally, would prefer not to see a woman of Miss Winkfield's age laying
herself open to any custodial sentence. But it is the ultimate risk she is
taking."


LOAD-DATE: April 29, 2005

LANGUAGE: ENGLISH

                    Copyright 2005 Times Newspapers Limited
